=== Page 410 ===
[Page number "204" at top. Foreign Service seal and reversed letterhead "THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA" show through from the back at the foot of the page.]

Enclosure to Despatch 961 dated December 14, 1945 from the Embassy at Chungking, China

- C O P Y -

CONFIDENTIAL

Embassy of the United States of America
Office of the Military Attache
Chungking

12 December 1945

MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHARGE D'AFFAIRES:

I have the honor to advise on some of the impressions which I received as a result of my stay in TAIHOKU, Formosa during the period of five days. My impressions are based on conversations with United States Army and Navy personnel stationed there and from viewing the western part of the island from the air.

CIVIL

General CHEN-yi, former Governor of Fukien Province, is the Governor General of the island. According to Colonel Gridley, Commanding Officer of the U. S. Army forces in Formosa, and his executive, Colonel Pegg, the Governor General is an able and sincere official, but is badly handicapped by a poor staff. Comment: Existing intelligence reports on the background of General CHEN-yi indicate that his administration when he was Governor of Fukien was rather corrupt.

At present there are 170,000 Japanese troops in Formosa. Of these, most have disarmed themselves and are awaiting transportation to Japan. [The phrase "disarmed themselves and" and "Japan" are underlined by hand.] It is said there was no resistance to the Chinese occupation. The Japanese have been very cooperative in giving any information desired, and such data have been checked and found to be accurate.

The civilian population appears to be quite healthy and comparatively well clothed. There has been little or no civil disorder, but the Americans speak of a growing resentment towards the fumbling and blundering of the Chinese administration, and they further state that under Japanese rule most officials, executives and technicians were Japanese and that as all Japanese civilians are to be repatriated, the Chinese administration will find it difficult to fill the vacancies with qualified personnel.

The language of Formosa is Japanese. The people

of Chinese...

[Note: heavy, blotted type throughout; legible with care. "Gridley" and "Pegg" are read from blotted letters.]

=== Page 411 ===
[Page number "205" at top. Seal and reversed letterhead show through at the foot, as on the previous page.]

- 2 -

of Chinese ancestry also speak Chinese of the [illegible] [illegible]. There has been a program started for teaching the [illegible] language over the radio.

WAR EFFECTS

The island was rather hard hit during the war. [Most of?] the larger towns and the seaports were damaged [extensively?]. Salvage of material is in progress, but very little reconstruction has commenced.

COMMUNICATIONS

The railroads appear to be in good condition and many trains are operating. The island is well covered by a network of roads and these highways appear to be in good shape. Most motor vehicles have been taken over by the Chinese military and there is very little automotive traffic. Bicycles are very much in evidence. There are many good airfields and great numbers of Japanese military planes, but very little air activity. There is an [ATC?] schedule running C-47 type planes from Shanghai to [Taihoku?] and Tainan three times weekly.

ECONOMIC

Commodity prices are still fairly low, but have increased rapidly since Chinese occupation. The Taiwan Yen is the official exchange and is listed at 15 Yen to the US dollar. The black market is 50 - 60 Yen to the US dollar and one yen is exchanged for 20 CN. Top salaries for servants range from 400 to 600 Yen per month.

It is anticipated that there will be a shortage of manufactured products in Formosa. However, agricultural staples appear to be plentiful and no shortage of food is to be expected.

The candle power of the lighting system appears to be normal and power facilities are operating rather efficiently.

AMERICAN CONSULATE

The American Consulate building is in fair condition, but is occupied at the present time by U.S. Army and Naval officers.

It is the suggestion of this officer and Lt. Kerr, Assistant Naval Attache at Taihoku, that the State Department station a representative in Formosa. At present, Lt. Kerr is being approached on many consular affairs that he is unable to handle. Furthermore Formosa is a particularly good vantage point to observe the administration and policies of the Central Government at the present time. It is indicated that Russia is in the process of opening a Consulate in Formosa as messages have been received by Lt. Kerr addressed to the Russian Consul.

(signed)
[Otto?] R. [illegible]
Lt Colonel, AC
Military Air Attache

[Note: very heavy, blotted type with a dark right margin. Illegible or uncertain: the dialect named in the first line and the language to be taught over the radio (the right end of both lines is blacked out); "[Most of?]" and "[extensively?]" in War Effects; "[ATC?]" and "[Taihoku?]" in Communications; the signer's name. The figures 15, 50 - 60, 20, 400 and 600 are blotted but legible.]
