=== Page 610 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

July 19, 1932.

[Routing initials, struck through: ["MSH:", "SKH:", "RE?:", "ROM:", "WRL:"; handwritten line through the list]

    Tokyo's despatch No. 33 of June 30, 1932, describes the decline of discipline in Japan and its results. It is worth reading. The despatch first deals with the decline of discipline among younger Army and Navy officers which has been reported on by the Embassy several times in the past, for example, the plotted coup d'etat of last October, the assassination of the Prime Minister in May of this year, and the report that activities in Manchuria are directed by three young Army officers. One new report, indicating deterioration in discipline, is a report that Army units have moved from Korea into Manchuria under the orders of their young commanding officers without authorization from headquarters. This indiscipline is due to the general discontent among the military and naval forces with the civil authority and with the high Army and Navy commands.

Next

=== Page 611 ===
- 2 -

    Next the despatch deals with decline of discipline in higher schools and universities, indicated by strikes and by recently disclosed corruption on a wide scale among officials of some of the schools.

    Several causes for the decline of discipline are advanced: radical thought in the higher institutions of learning; increase of selfishness and greed; loss of patriotic sentiment; decay of the patriarchial and apprentice systems that were part of the feudal period; the fact that the good of the individual rather than the welfare of the family or clan is sought by the younger generation; reaction against the tremendous efforts of the nation during the Meiji era, as the Japanese now feel that they have reached a high place in the community of nations; easier living since the Great War; corruption in high places, including not only the civil authority but the high command of Navy and Army.

    The indiscipline expresses itself by a reactionism and by the fact that a group of young officers is more or less in control in Japan and is conducting the campaign in Manchuria.

Japan

=== Page 612 ===
- 3 -

    Japan is faced with problems more serious than any since the time of the Restoration. There are no strong leaders in sight -- certainly not among the young men who are leading the nation into bankruptcy and into international isolation. In the meantime the unrest and discontent with present conditions in Japan are steadily deepening. Apparently "the older, wiser men who formerly controlled affairs in Japan do not anticipate a revolution".

[handwritten initials]
LES:CLS
