=== Page 13 ===
POLITICAL CONDITIONS IN FORMOSA

([F]rom an interview with Mr. Hsieh Nan-kuang, Chungking, Oct. 2, '44)

Mr. Hsieh Nan-kuang (謝南光 [handwritten]), Section Chief & Acting Chief Secretary of the Institute for International Problems of the Chinese National Military Council, was invited to the Office of the CHINA DIVISION, O.W.I., by Mr. Fisher to talk about Formosa.

Mr. Hsieh is known in China as an expert on Formosa, since he was born there and seems to be in charge of political affairs for Formosa in his present Office. His own connection with the Kuomintang as a Party was not given in our interview. Mr. Hsieh left Formosa in 1931, but has been keeping contact with people coming from there ever since, and has occasionally broadcasted to Formosa from Chungking.

--------------------

Mr. Hsieh began by giving a little of the industrial picture, especially around TAKAO on the SW coast. TAKAO has iron and aluminum factories and an oil dump or refinery close to the railroad line. Since the city is built on flat delta land with water close to the surface, dugouts cannot be made. Instead, ARP shelters must be constructed above ground. Principal crops are rice and sugar which are shipped to Japan Proper, so that the local people are forced to eat potatoes. They complain about this. [Marginal line in pencil beside this paragraph.]

Camphor is extracted and manufactured into oil in TAIHOKU PROVINCE in the north. One of the uses for the oil is as a motor fuel. Natural gas comes from wells in the north around NANAHO.

South from CH'USHU, above TAKAO on the west coast, and roughly including the whole of TAKAO PROVINCE down to the southern tip of Formosa, the area is designated a Military Area. Here there are usually five divisions of troops constantly training for jungle warfare. The training period is only about one or two months, and the troops are Japanese & Koreans, with not very many Chinese. The Formosans are trained in 18 other camps over the Island, and presumably do not receive this specialized jungle training.

In Formosa the Japanese troops do not respect the Formosan women, and also conscript the farmers for labor. Now there are some 310,000 Formosan men in the Army & Navy, and since these men were conscripted mostly from the soil, their families are unsupported and face poverty. The Japanese authorities do not give them any help.

Most of the fishing off Formosa is done by Japanese.

The population of Formosa is largely Chinese, originally from Fukien and Kwangtung, and reaches 6,500,600. Japanese number about 300,000, and the "natives"---originally of Malay stock---reach 160,000. These were predominantly hunters and farmers in the wild mountains on the southeastern quarter of the Island, and resisted the Japanese for many years. However, beginning in 1930, the Japanese authorities drove most of them by force down to the flat land on the southeast coast, disarmed them, and thus forced them to turn to agriculture. Thus they may be considered to be pacified.

The bulk of the Formosans speak Amoy dialect and Japanese, while all of the youth below 25 years read and write Japanese easily. Messages to them should be both in Chinese and Japanese.

In Formosa. . . .

=== Page 14 ===
- 2 -

In Formosa there are three underground political parties, all [agai]nst the Japanese. Approximately 2,00,000 [sic] Formosans are politically conscious by reason of party activities. Of these, 175,000 are workers, and 700,000 are students. (?)

1) The KUOMINTANG is connected with the Chinese Kuomintang in Fukien. It reflects the Chinese Kuomintang program and wants to have Formosa a part of China after the war. It has about 15,000 members, mostly students, merchants, and industrialists, plus more supporters.

2) The KUNGCHANTANG (Communist Party) is connected with the Chinese Communist Party through Shanghai. It reflects the Chinese Communist program and also wants to join Formosa to China after the war. It has about 13,000 members, mostly peasants and workers in factories, forests, and docks, plus more supporters.

3) The KE MIN T'UNGMINMUI (Revolutionary Peoples' League) is chiefly made up of the old Chinese residents. About one-half want Dominion status under China after the war, and thus is allied to the Formosan Kuomintang. The other half, made up of landlords and country gentry, stands for Formosan independence.

All the parties have about the same political activities:

1) To attract members & supporters to their own party.

2) To keep alive anti-Japanese sentiment by
a) Anti-Japanese propaganda
b) Anti-war propaganda
c) The Communists are also "Anti-imperialist"

3) To train Formosan youth in China to return to Formosa after the war.

4) To incite forestry and dock workers to sabotage (Done mainly by the Communists.)

In response to Mr. Fisher's request, Mr. Hsieh gave some suggestions about propaganda to Formosa.

1) Broadcasting: The best time to broadcast to Formosa is from 9:00 to 10:00 p.m. Tokyo time, because then the anti-Japanese programs can be screened by the strong Japanese programs at the same hour.

2) Political line: United Nations, and especially the U.S., should declare itself on Formosa's post-war status. It is believed that most of the people there know the provision for Formosa in the Cairo Conference Declaration. (?)

Underground activity should also be encouraged.

When Mr. Fisher pointed out that radio facilities were not available from this end, but asked for possible points for leaflets, Mr. Hsieh gave the following ideas:

1) Bomb warnings are good, and the people will respond to [them].

2) News stories are good including progress of the war and resistance in Europe.

3) Material to make the people friendly to the United Nations troops that might land would be good.

4). . . .

[Note: the top-left corner is blacked out ("[agai]nst", "[polit]ically", "[a]re"); "2,00,000" is typed so (presumably 2,000,000 or 200,000). Pencil lines in the right margin beside several paragraphs.]

=== Page 15 ===
- 3 -

4) Complain against the Japanese for taking 310,000 men away from home to leave their families unsupported. People should be led to demand government support or else to demand that their men should be brought back. Slogans for this are:

a) "Send them back"

b) "Give supplies and support their families"

c) "Same treatment for Formosan wounded and sick soldiers as for Japanese".

--------------------

Theodore Herman
Intelligence Officer
CHINA DIVISION, O.W.I.

[Stamp, faint, with handwritten initials: "A true copy of the signed original" (partly illegible).]
