=== Page 6 ===
Enclosure No. 4.

Translation.

REGULATIONS CONCERNING TREATMENT OF ALIENS.

Taiwan Government General Order No. 71. July, 1899.

    Article 1. Any person accommodating a foreigner with a lodging shall submit within [24?] hours a report to the competent police station setting forth the following items. The name, title, and name of place in a foreign country shall be written both in Japanese and in the original language:

        1. Name.
        2. Nationality.
        3. Title and occupation.
        4. Age.
        5. Place of residence; address in foreign country if no place of residence.
        6. Place of departure.
        7. Date and time of arrival.

    When the foreigner covered by the report mentioned in the preceding paragraph has left the lodgings, the date and the time of his departure, the place to which he removed, or his destination shall be reported to the competent police station within 24 hours, provided, however, that in the case of a person coming under the provisions of Article 4 the provisions of the said article shall apply.

    The time within which the report mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be submitted may be shortened by provincial and prefectural orders in the case of proprietors of hotels or others accommodating foreigners with lodgings for purpose of business. The report mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 may be submitted to a police box or a police officer on beat, excepting cases where there are provisions in provincial or prefectural orders.

    Article 2. When demanded by the proprietor or custodian of the house in which a foreigner lodges, the foreigner shall give information concerning himself and any foreigner accompanying him required in submitting the report prescribed in the preceding article, or he shall fill in the blank furnished by the proprietor or the custodian.

    Article 2-2. The provisions of the two preceding articles shall not apply to Chinese.

    Article 3. A foreigner residing in Taiwan shall submit a report, giving the following items, to the competent police station within ten days after his residence concerning himself, his family and attendants accompanying him:

        1. Name.

[Note: the top half of this page (Article 1 and its list) is very faint; the words above are read from what is visible. The number of hours in the first sentence of Article 1 cannot be made out with certainty.]

=== Page 7 ===
- 2 -

        1. Name.
        2. Whether a head of family or otherwise; if not a head of family, his relation to the head of family.
        3. Title.
        4. Occupation and position thereat.
        5. Date of birth.
        6. Date of residence.
        7. Former address.
        8. New address.
        9. Nationality.
        10. Address in home country.

    Although not coming under the preceding paragraph a foreigner who has stayed in the same town or village for more than 60 days is required to report each item of the preceding paragraph within ten days after the sixty day period.

    When a foreigner does not keep an independent household, the person who has accommodated the foreigner with a lodging shall jointly affix his signature on the report.

    Article 4. A police station shall be provided with a register of foreigners, and shall register therein the items reported in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 3, Article 5, and Article 6. Even in the absence of any reports the registration required in this article shall be made whenever the required facts are available in accordance with Article 8.

    Article 5. When a foreigner registered in the register of foreigners removes, the following person shall within ten days after the removal report to the competent police station the date of removal and the place to which the foreigner has removed, provided, however, that when the person who removes submits the report himself the report shall be submitted before removal:

        1. In the case of removal of a foreigner lodging in a house, the person who has accommodated the foreigner with the lodging.
        2. When the family of a foreigner keeping an independent household remove, the said foreigner.
        3. When a foreigner keeping an independent household removes himself and his family still remain in the said house, the adult who shall be the chief of the remaining family. If there is no such adult who shall be the chief, the oldest person of the adults.

=== Page 8 ===
- 3 -

        4. When not coming under the preceding three items, the owner (landlord) of the house or custodian thereof.

    Article 6. When a fact mentioned in items 1 to 20 of Article 6 of the Census Regulations has occurred in the case of a foreigner registered in the Register of Foreigners, the fact shall be reported to the competent police station within ten days after the occurring of the fact. The form prescribed in the Census Regulations will be applied to the report provided in this regulation.

    Article 7. Any person may, by paying the following fees, inspect the Register of Foreigners, or request a copy thereof:

        1. Inspection - 5 sen per family per inspection.
        2. Copy - 20 sen per copy.

    Article 8. A foreigner shall answer to questions by a police officer concerning information required to be reported in accordance with Article 1 or required to be registered in the Register of Foreigners, and when demanded he shall produce his passport in his possession or other document certifying to his nationality.

    The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply to cases where a police officer questions a Japanese who has accommodated a foreigner with a lodging.

    Article 9. The Governor General of Taiwan may order deportation from Taiwan of a foreigner coming under the following:

        1. A person who is unable to earn his livelihood.
        2. A person who roams about without a fixed residence.
        3. A begger.
        4. A person who is considered harmful to peace and order or public morals.
        5. A person who has again entered Taiwan without permission after having been deported.

    The order for deportation may be executed by force after punishment in accordance with Article 10, or without application of the Article 10.

    Article 10. A person who has not left Taiwan within the prescribed period after receiving an order for deportation in accordance with Article 9, and a person who has again entered Taiwan without permission after deported, shall be punished by a major imprisonment not exceeding four months or a fine not exceeding Yen 50.00.

Article 11.

=== Page 9 ===
- 4 -

    Article 11. A person who, in violation of Article 8, does not comply with the demand of a police officer, or does not answer questions by the police officer, or who makes false answers, shall be fined not exceeding Yen 20.00 excepting cases where the penal code is applied.

    Article 12. A person who has failed to submit the reports mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 1, Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 3, and Articles 5 and 6, shall be fined not exceeding Yen 1.95, and a person who has submitted false reports shall be fined not exceeding Yen 20.00 excepting cases where the penal code is applied.

    A person who has violated paragraph 3 of Article 3 shall be fined not exceeding Yen 1.95.

    Article 13. In the case of a foreigner actually residing in Taiwan at the time of the enforcement of this regulation the period within which the reports prescribed in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 3 shall be submitted shall be calculated from the date of the enforcement of this regulation.

    A person who has actually a foreign lodger in his house at the time of the enforcement of this regulation shall submit the report mentioned in paragraph 1 of Article 1 on the day of the enforcement of this regulation.

    Article 14. Chinese shall be governed by respective regulations wherever there are such separate regulations.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

(Translated by Interpreter C. Matsuo, American Consulate, Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan.)
