=== Page 85 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

February 26, 1940

[Routing initials, struck through: "JWB:" and "MMH:"]

Reference Taihoku's voluntary report of December 2, 1939, entitled "'Kominka' or the Japanization of the People of Taiwan".

Vice Consul Emmerson has here compiled an extraordinarily thorough report, which merits the grade of "Excellent", on the subject of the Japanese nationalizing of the inhabitants of Taiwan. The following are outstanding points in the report:

The Governor General of Taiwan has publicly stated that Japanization of the people of Taiwan is one of the issues most vital to Taiwan at present (the others being (1) Japanese expansion to south China and the South Seas, and (2) industrialization).

One of the agencies of Japanization is town and village assemblies, which are in no sense legislative bodies. They are dominated by Japanese. In the same way the five provincial assemblies were recently composed of 86 Japanese and 58 Formosan Chinese. Nine city assemblies comprise 99 Japanese and 34 Formosan Chinese.

Political organization is paralleled by a "voluntary" organization gradually expanding out

to

=== Page 86 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-

to include all households, which organization is used to draft attendance at public celebrations, patriotic meetings, farewells and welcomes for soldiers, and to collect special subscriptions, cooperation in air raid drills, and obtain a supply of labor contributions. There is an element of indirect compulsion which is effective.

In the rural districts the "voluntary" organization raises levies of crops and animals and sometimes monetary contributions.

Knowledge of the Japanese language is being made a requisite for good standing and advancement. The percentage of Japanese-speaking Formosan Chinese is said to have increased from .4 of 1% in 1905 to 8 1/2% in 1930 and over 45% at the present time. Town and village police stations record the names of inhabitants considered conversant with Japanese. Formosan Chinese have come to realize that without a listing in the book privileges and opportunities are denied. Any inhabitants doing business with a bank or government office must speak Japanese or the conversation must be interpreted into Japanese; the conversation of a Formosan who does not speak Japanese is required to be interpreted into Japanese even though his business is with a clerk who is a Formosan.

Japanese in Taiwan have no difficulty in obtaining entrance to middle and higher schools but Formosan students are discriminated

against

=== Page 87 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-

against and they make up [but, inserted by hand] a small percentage of the students. In the university it is only in the medical department that the number of Formosan students approaches the number of Japanese students.

Many generations must pass before Japanese becomes the language of the people of Taiwan.

Very few persons are exempt from labor contributions. A card is received stating the date, hour and place at which one is to report. Work includes road building, flood prevention projects, care of shrines, clearing land, airfield construction and tree planting.

Japanization is promoted through the religious approach also, in which Shinto is favored. Police surveillance of religious and educational activities has become increasingly strict. Three specific instances are known in which Christian ministers were "urged" to speak at anti-British rallies.

One county is being organized as a "model" of Japanization. It will include a model village.

Among the aborigines of the island the Japanese police officer is not only guardian of the law but also teacher, counsellor, economic

and

=== Page 88 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-4-

and agricultural advisor and often doctor and religious guide.

The Formosan Chinese naturally resent the domination of the Japanese and the attitude of superiority behind the domination. Although rebellion is inconceivable, Japan cannot be said to have achieved in Taiwan the "brotherhood union of peoples" which is sometimes cited as a particularly meritorious characteristic of Japanese policy toward the Chinese. Race consciousness is so strong that, for example, no Japanese instructor in a university would serve under a Formosan Chinese member of the faculty.

Courses in Mandarin Chinese are unusually popular at the present time and numerous night schools are flourishing where Formosans hope to prepare themselves for careers in China.

FE:Coville:HJN [handwritten initials "CC" above "Coville"]
