=== Page 118 ===
Required

[De]partment's multigraphed instruction of September 14, 1934
(File No. 800.55/18A)

[Stamp, partly illegible: “RECEIVED … NOV 20 AM 10 12 … AND RECORDS”]
[Stamp, partly illegible: “FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS / Department of State”]
[Handwritten: “LE”; additional filing marks illegible.]

Report No. 14[?]

(1)

Conditions of Temporary Admission and Residence
of Instrumental Musicians, Other Musicians,
Actors, Artists, and Choristers.

[Right margin: 894.55/5]

Prepared by: [Handwritten signature: J. M. Allison]
J. M. Allison
American Vice Consul.

Date of Completion: November 2, 1934

Date of Mailing: November 2, 1934

Approved by: [Handwritten signature: Arthur Garrels]
Arthur Garrels,
American Consul General.

[Handwritten at foot: “2 copies removed for [illegible].”]

[Note: The page edge obscures the opening letters of “Department's”; the final digit of the report number is covered by a stamp; several stamp portions and filing marks are faint or illegible; the final part of the handwritten footnote is illegible.]

=== Page 119 ===
There are no special regulations or laws in Japan governing the admission and residence of instrumental musicians, other musicians, actors, artists and choristers. All of the above come under the provisions of Ordinance No. 1 of the Ministry of Home Affairs of January 24, 1918, relating to the regulations governing the admission of non-immigrants into Japan. A full translation of this ordinance was enclosed with a report by Vice Consul Hutchinson entitled “Alien Employment Restrictions in Foreign Countries”, dated November 19, 1932. No changes have occurred.

Imperial Ordinance No. 352 of July 28, 1889, prohibits the entrance into Japan for permanent residence of all alien laborers unless permission be obtained from an administrative official. Domestic service is practically the only form of labor exempt from this Ordinance.

Ordinance No. 1 relating to the admission of non-immigrants into Japan provides, in general, that the competent officials are to prevent the entry of aliens suspected of a desire to act against the interests of the Empire, those who may become a danger to public order or good behavior, beggars and vagabonds. Persons likely to become a public charge may be refused admission as may those who are afflicted with an acute contagious disease or any other affliction dangerous to public health. Feeble minded persons and lunatics may also be refused admission.

While, as stated above, there are no special regulations dealing with musicians, actors or artists, the police have taken a more strict attitude towards the

activities

=== Page 120 ===
- 2 -

activities of persons of these classes than towards the ordinary tourist and business man. The public charge provision of the law has been interpreted strictly and in nearly every case it has been necessary for actors and musicians to be guaranteed by some responsible local organization before the police will permit them to land in Japan. The fact that the continued presence of persons of this class in Japan might become a danger to public order has often been alleged by the police in instigating proceedure of deportation against them.

In many cases the police have been able to get rid of such persons by charging them with having transit visas good for only thirty days stay in Japan. The experience of the Consulate General has been that most actors and musicians have been misinformed as to the types of Japanese visas available and have applied for a transit visa because it was gratis and they believed that an entrance visa would cost ten dollars. There have also been cases of persons of these classes embarking upon a round-the-world cruise and then suddenly deciding to stop off in Japan when they found possible employment. These persons usually have transit visas only, and at the end of their thirty days are asked to move on. In some cases, if a responsible organization will guarantee their good conduct and eventual departure, the police will allow them to remain. There is no uniform practice in regard to this among the officials of various cities of Japan nor is the practice uniform in cities themselves. It is this lack of uniformity and sometimes arbitrary action on the

part

=== Page 121 ===
- 3 -

part of the police which has been the chief point of complaint by foreigners affected. In some cases the possession of proper entrance visas and guarantees from local authorities has not been enough to prevent the eviction of actors and musicians.

The case of Mr. and Mrs. D. Kaili and Miss Pearl Alama, American citizens of Hawaiian origin, is typical of treatment accorded visiting entertainers by the Japanese authorities. The above trio, a vaudeville team, landed at Kobe on March 1, 1934, and upon disembarkation their passports were taken up by the Kobe Water Police for reasons unknown to them. They appealed to the American Consulate in Kobe and an investigation was made.

Vice Consul McClintock cf the Kobe Consulate interviewed the chief of the foreign section of the Water Police and was informed that the police would not be able to give up the passports unless the troupe could give evidence of a contract for employment in Japan. The visas, which the police admitted were in order, provided for a stay of two weeks in Japan. Mr. Kaili was eventually allowed to proceed to Tokyo where he succeeded in obtaining employment for his troupe in the Florida Dance Hall. Upon receipt by the Kobe Water Police of a copy of a letter addressed to the American Consul in Kobe from Mr. Kaili stating that he had a contract with the Florida, the police gave up the passports.

The original date of expiration of the Kaili troupe's passports was March 18th and about the first of April they informed the Consulate General they had been ordered by the police to leave Japan on April 6th. They had completed

their

=== Page 122 ===
- 4 -

their contract with the Florida Dance Hall and had signed a second with the manager of the Hogaku Theatre. Both of these organizations were able and willing to guarantee that the troupe would not become a public charge. The Consul General addressed a letter to the Chief of the Foreign Section of the Metropolitan Police setting forth the above facts and asked the reason for requesting these performers to leave Japan. In his reply the Chief of the Foreign Section stated that when these persons landed at Kobe on March 1st there was no trouble in regard to their visas but that their landing had been prohibited for the preservation of order. He then went on to say:

“However, as they had a contract with the Florida Dance Hall of Tokyo for four weeks employment and as the Dance Hall stood security for them, their landing was permitted. On March 31st, according to their contract, their relations with the above Dance Hall terminated and the Dance Hall was no longer responsible for them. Their continued stay in Japan was therefore not permitted.”

The Consul General replied to this letter pointing out the inconsistency between the police's statement that the Florida was no longer responsible for the troupe and the fact that the Florida had indicated that they would be willing to sign a further guarantee and that the Hogaku management was also willing to guarantee the troupe. No reply was received from the police to this letter, and the Kaili party was required to leave Japan.

An official of the Foreign Section of the Metropolitan Police informed the writer that there were no written rules or regulations for the guidance of the police in their treatment of foreign entertainers. In most cases in which a person has only a transit visa, the

policy

=== Page 123 ===
- 5 -

policy of the police, according to this official, is to ignore his presence in Japan unless a complaint is made by some one that the foreigner has stayed too long. This complairt is usually made by persons in competitive lines and is based upon fear that local business will suffer. This undoubtedly was a factor in the refusal of the police to allow the Marcus Show to remain in Japan.

There are no statistics published in Japan in regard to the number of artists, musicians, actors, or choristers entering or leaving the country. At the present time it is estimated that there are not more than fifty or sixty such persons in the whole of Japan.

The police authorities do not look with favor upon the average dance hall orchestra and entertainers coming to Japan. Legitimate stage shows are welcomed for but a limited period and it is extremely unlikely that any show, even with proper entrance visas, would be allowed to remain in Japan more than two or three months. The police have adopted the attitude that in the cases of persons of the types mentioned in this report, there is a strong presumption that they might become public charges or in some manner be prejudicial to public order. There is no ground for complaint because of the general principle followed, but the lack of uniformity in the administration of the law, and the sometimes arbitrary and apparently unreasonable action of the police have been the sources of much dissatisfaction and irritation.

File No. 855/850.4
[JMA/eb?]

[Note: The two typist's initials after “JMA/” are faint; they appear to read “eb”.]

=== Page 124 ===
SOURCES OF INFORMATION

Files of Consulate General.

Reports from Yokohama and Kobe Consulates.

Interviews with officials of the Foreign Section of the Metropolitan Police.
