=== Page 556 ===
[Stamps and marks: "RECD" stamp; Division of Far Eastern Affairs, Department of State, JUN 6 - 1932; "JUN 4 32"; "JUN 18 1932 FILED"; "F/LS 894.00/414"; a handwritten "F[E]" at the top right; handwritten note at the left: "894.00 note 894.44 - Shanghai, Ki[?]"]

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Berlin, May 23, 1932.

No. 1738

Subject: Press Reaction to Murder of Japanese Premier.

The Honorable
    The Secretary of State
        Washington.

Sir:

    I have the honor to report that the assassination of the Japanese Premier by army and navy officers of that country and its attendant circumstances found a loud repercussion in the German press which was unanimous in foreseeing greater tension between Japan and the Soviets as an outcome. As the Japanese organization responsible for the murder was quite generally identified with the forces of extreme nationalism and anti-capitalism, the expressions of sympathy or of antipathy contained in various sections of the German press were the obvious ones. It was hinted that French sympathies would be on the side of Japan, while America would

=== Page 557 ===
- 2 -

would favor Russia.

    The semi-official DEUTSCHE DIPLOMATISCH-POLITISCHE KORRESPONDENZ (May 17) saw in the murdering of the Japanese Premier a confirmation of that passage in the Chancellor's statement to the representatives of the German press [handwritten: 462.00 R296 A1/151] (see despatch No. 1723 of May 11, 1932) wherein he queried: "Does one not see that demon spirits of negation and destruction arise from the graves of the peoples' wrecked hopes?", and demanded action before it was too late.

    Two days later, the KORRESPONDENZ said that the development which had led to the event was of long standing in Japan. It was mainly of a domestic political character although the Japanese young military faction was energetic in enforcing foreign political demands. The unrest after the murder was gradually giving way to a quieter attitude. It would appear that both the Mikado and the Minister of War, Araki, were not inclined to warlike plans. It was to be hoped that responsible circles would retain the supremacy in Japan and frustrate adventurous plans. "The situation is doubtless serious, but for that very reason one should not exaggerate it, in order not to blow the fire" it concluded.

    According to the Nazi VOELKISCHER BEOBACHTER (May 18), "Seven revolutionaries, costumed as army and navy officers" had committed the deed.

The

=== Page 558 ===
- 3 -

    The Nazi ANGRIFF (May 18) remarked that "in Europe a very large group of people, or even a Party, has never dared to approve a crime committed by one of its followers. In Japan, this public approval of a deed which, according to European standards was a criminal one, is nothing extraordinary, provided the deed was prompted by patriotic convictions. The unbroken and still hundred percent national will of the people is manifested in this attitude..... About two years ago strong forces, which may be called National Socialistic in our sense, separated from the Japanese Social Democrats... Uncertainty as to the fate of Manchuria, which had been conquered by Japanese soldiers, started the military revolt. If these tendencies continue to be effective, the results to world politics are hard to prophesy, especially in connection with Russia."

    Hugenberg's LOKAL ANZEIGER (May 18) said that all the attempts made by Japan since the war to regain a leading position in world politics had been frustrated by the United States and England. Her recent success in Manchuria had been only partial, her position there was precarious. At home, over-population and the economic crisis were a menace. The army felt that it had been betrayed by the politicians. If, as a result of the murder, the military party were to obtain the upper hand in Japan, it would attempt to divert domestic dissatisfaction into foreign political

[A pencil check mark in the left margin at the foot.]

=== Page 559 ===
- 4 -

channels. Increased Japanese activity in Manchuria might easily lead to a conflict with the Soviets. "The military party probably enjoys the sympathy of France..... In Warsaw, influential circles hope that Russia will be tied up in the Far East."

    The independent Nationalist BERLINER BOERSEN ZEITUNG (May 17) did not believe that Russia would seriously resist the enforcement of a Japanese "Monroe Doctrine" in Manchuria.

    The Junker KREUZ ZEITUNG (May 19) opined that "the annexation of Manchuria, the main aim of Japanese nationalism, would represent an extraordinary increase of strength for Japan, and alter the balance of power on the Pacific at the expense of the United States ... In the Far East, Japan is the opponent of Russia as well as of the United States. This fact alone necessitates a community of interests between America and Russia, as became apparent at the peace negotiations in Portsmouth which terminated the Russo-Japanese war. Aside from the diplomatic ability of Witte, Russia owes it to America's mediation that she got off with only a black eye. The revolution in Russia and the fear of Bolshevism.....brought about America's separation from Russia. As a result of the effects of the Far Eastern conflict, a gradual rapprochement between America and the Soviets is apparent. Thus a motion recently introduced in Congress for the recognition

of

=== Page 560 ===
- 5 -

of the Soviet Union and the promotion of mutual commercial relations signifies more than merely the American wish to have part in the Russian market."

    The DEUTSCHE ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG (Right wing of People's Party - May 17) believed that the example of French egoism had influenced Japan. "If the report is true that the Japanese army has backed the demands of the conspirators, the Japanese Government would be in an extraordinarily difficult position. If it wishes to comply with these demands, there will be not only a declaration of war against China, but a conflict with the Soviet Union as well will hardly be avoidable," although Russia was anxious to avoid it. There was danger to the peace of the world.

    The Centrist GERMANIA (May 17) was of the opinion that the protest of the Japanese "hotspurs" was mainly directed against her foreign policy. The first result might be a delay in the evacuation of Shanghai. The detente in the East was endangered.

    The democratic VOSSISCHE ZEITUNG (May 17) said that, in Japan, the military Fascists had combined with the plutocratic oligarchy to put down the Communist movement. After succeeding in this, Japanese nationalists had raised demands which even the most active foreign policy could not satisfy. "The spirits of Fascism, called by the ruling class of

Japan,

[A pencil check mark in the left margin at the foot.]

=== Page 561 ===
- 6 -

Japan, have turned upon them.... Premier Inukai was shot at a moment when he had recognized the necessity of international conciliation, when the negotiations carried on at Geneva by the American Secretary of State Stimson with the French Government and, above all, with the Russian Foreign Minister Litvinov, had created a new situation." The slogan of the Black Dragon was: complete annexation of Manchuria and war against Russia. The question was whether any successor to Inukai would have the power to break the Fascist terror. War against Russia might be successful in the beginning, but would destroy Japan. "The reduction of Japan's foreign trade is already tending towards catastrophe. If America closes its harbors to Japanese exports of articles of luxury, the catastrophe is complete."

    The Social Democratic VORWAERTS (May 17) spoke bitterly of the hero-worship shown officers in a militaristic country. There was no occasion to "moralize anent Asiatic cruelty as Europe has just experienced the foul murder of the President of the French Republic and, in another European country, one statesman was killed while taking a walk in the forest and another was shot from a pursuing automobile, the murderers being also young officers." (A reference to Germany and the killing of Erzberger and Rathenau).

The

=== Page 562 ===
- 7 -

The next day, the VORWAERTS added that once the militarists enjoyed unhampered power in Tokyo, the worst complications might well be feared in the Far East. The weakness exhibited by the League of Nations was responsible for the turn matters had taken. War between Japan and Russia threatened. "The danger of a world-wide catastrophe would be even greater if the Nazis were to come into power in Germany as well, as the only positive plank in their foreign political program is the undignified fawning upon the enemies of Bolshevism in all countries."

    The Communist ROTE FAHNE (May 18) said that from Paris to Tokyo the capitalists were intent on preventing the up-building of socialism in Russia - hence the activity of the Black Dragon.

    Respectfully yours,

[signature]
Frederic M. Sackett.

710
WWS HCF AC
