=== Page 424 ===
[Handwritten at top: TOKYO]

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

[Handwritten scrawl at upper left, partly struck through, apparently addressee initials and a name, illegible.]                May 10, 1932.

    This excellent report on the reactionary movement in Japan (Tokyo Embassy's No. 588, April 22, 1932) is well worth the study of the Department on account of the good idea it conveys of the great [handwritten: weight] and prevalence of extreme nationalism in Japan. It is stated that reactionism in Japan started as early as 1888, and that it has received impetus with every effort of western nations to curb Japanese expansion and with every advance of western culture on Japanese life. The greatest development of reactionary societies has occurred since 1918, but it is only since the Manchurian adventure that they have become of nation-wide significance. Mr. Salisbury has been able to compile a list of 124 societies, of which 82 were founded since 1918. It is stated that one reactionary leader reported that there are 300 reactionary societies of a political character, with a total membership of 300,000, but that others estimate the total membership as 600,000. The control of Manchuria and Mongolia has long been the ambition of a part of these societies.

The

[Vertical pencil line in the left margin beside the last lines; a black smudge at the upper left corner.]

=== Page 425 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

- 2 -

    The importance of these societies has been enhanced since last September by the assistance which they have been able to render the military through propaganda and [struck out, illegible] silencing [struck out, illegible] opposition. Their significance lies not in any action which they might initiate but in their possible support [struck out: of] other groups in action relating to internal affairs. The inclusion of many prominent leaders of sound political views somewhat lessens the likelihood of radical activity, however.

    Until the Manchurian affair the fundamental object of reactionary societies in Japan has been the preservation of the peculiar national polity and characteristics of Japan, but since September 18 the principle that Japanese control of Manchuria and Mongolia is necessary for the preservation of Japan as a great power has welded these societies together and been added to their aims. Ryohei Uchida, perhaps the most prominent reactionary leader, recently made a statement that indicates the type of mind of reactionaries in Japan. He said that Manchuria has never belonged to China and that the Foreign Office, industrialists and newspapers and magazines are not really Japanese and do not understand Japan.

At

[Pencil diagonal stroke at the upper left; a vertical pencil line in the left margin beside the second paragraph from "Ryohei Uchida" to the end; a pencil underline under "Ryohei Uchida".]

=== Page 426 ===
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

- 3 -

    At present two views exist regarding extreme political movements that would receive the support of reactionary societies. One is the formation of a super-party cabinet that would back the military and the other is the taking over of the Government by the military. A proletarian leader expressed the opinion that the military would take control of the Government when the Japanese capitalists refused to lend more money for the Manchurian enterprise. Either movement would probably be assisted by other organizations of reactionary tendencies such as the Imperial Reservists Association, 3,000,000 membership, Young Men's Associations, 2,577,000 members, Young Men's Training Institutes, 1,000,000 members, Young Women's Associations, 1,616,000 members and the three National Defense Associations.

    Reactionary societies disclaim the word "Fascism" because opinion on the abolition of parliamentary government is divided. Rather their new spirit is a product peculiar to Bushido and does not owe anything to foreign influence. Labor is aligning itself with reaction.

[Handwritten initials: WRL]

FE: WRL: EJL

[Pencil diagonal stroke at the upper left; vertical pencil line in the left margin beside the second paragraph.]
