=== Page 182 ===
THE DOMEI NEWS [heading faint; "DOMEI" partly legible]

Ankara, November 25, 1943

Manila :

With all Filipino cast Italian opera "Pagliacci" will be presented here evening 29/11 with professor Ramon Tapales directing. This will be the second occasion in recent months that Italian opera will be staged in Manila under sponsorship of cultural elements to be eager completely to eradicate already dwindling influence of American jazz in Philippines.

Taiyuan :

After surrounding approximately 1,000 Sino-communist troops in Chiangpo twenty kilometers north-west of Siangyuan in southern Taihing and of south-eastern Shansi province Japanese army units launched smashing attack on them dawn 18/11 and by sunset of the same day killed 100, prisonered 407 as they tried to draw through. Japanese captured quantities of war trophies including automatic rifle with fifty rounds of ammunition, five revolvers, thirty hand-grenades.

Manila :

Addressing the first regular session of national assembly under republic of Philippines president Joseph Laurel stressed accomplishments of assembly of Greater East Asiatic nations wherein Philippine took part and outlined legislation necessary to meet vital domestic problems of the new government. He told to members of legislative body that joint declaration adopted at assembly of greater East Asiatic nations is the "greatest human charter ever enacted, ever promulgated in centuries past and in present century." Giving significance of each five cardinal principles embodied in the document president said "first principle means people of Philippines as well as rest of Greater East Asia are determined to work together for purpose of enjoying common prosperity and making common causes with one another in prosecution of war so that they may all attain independence and sovereignty." Regarding the second principle he said "basis of co-existence, co-prosperity and co-operation is maintenance of sovereignity integrating units which is guaranteed in this provision. This is important to Philippines as well as to other Asiatic nations because the charge has been voiced in past that present war

[Note: Heading and some letters of the dateline ("Ankara", "November 25") are faint; "29/11" in line 2 is partly faint and read as 29/11 (possibly 22/11 or 28/11). Catch-word at foot: "war".]

=== Page 183 ===
is being [illegible] ... [illegible] ... [the] world." [illegible] ... third principle [illegible] ... "[this] means not only [illegible] ... guaranteed but also traditions which will enable each nation to develop, progress and achieve happiness in accordance with its beliefs and customs." President also hailed reciprocity of context of the fourth principle saying "federation of East Asiatic nations, any federation cannot succeed nor be lasting enduring unless what is done by one is reciprocated in the same extent and by the same measure by the other. Only by doing this can prosperity of all be achieved and consequently prosperity of integral parts." Concerning the fifth principle president said importance of enacting the legislation assuming self-sufficiency in food as well as medicine for maintenance of peace and order, solving transportation problem, planning taxation and finance measures and undertaking proposed reorganization of sovereign and [?] governments who are members of the assembly to take lead in in their respective provinces in work raising more foodstuffs and manufacturing medicine from local medicinal plants. Laurel disclosed Philippines has been recipient of gift of twelve passenger planes from premier general Hideki Tojo in order to provide government means of rapid transportation. Also it was disclosed the plan to organize board of peace and order under ministry interior is under way to take charge national policy work. President urged the assembly to study taxation finance measures in order to further stabilize financial structure of the new government. Regarding social relief he said national assembly is presently discussing equitable distribution of two million pesos appropriated during special session last month to help war victims.

---------------

[Note: Lines 1-4 of the page are largely illegible from faintness (only fragments such as "is being", "world.", "third principle", "this means not only", "guaranteed", "but also traditions" are readable); "[?]" before "governments" is a partly faint word (possibly "seized" or "sized"). Line 4 start "[illegible] which will enable" read "which will enable" from fragments "will en... ach nation to d velop".]
