=== Page 27 ===
[Many stamps and handwritten routing marks: "Division of Southwest Pacific Affairs, NOV 15 1944"; "Office of Far Eastern Affairs, OCT 27 1944, Deputy Director, Department of State"; "Department of State, Division of Communications and Records, NOV 2 1944"; "War Areas Economic Division, JAN 9 1945, Department of State"; "Division of Japanese Affairs" (date illegible); "Division of Territorial Studies, NOV 2[?]"; "Division of Administrative Management, NOV 2 1944, Reproduction Section"; "Division of International Security and Organization, NOV 25 1944"; an oval stamp dated "FEB 6 1945" with "File" written over it; "FILED". Routing box, handwritten: "MID-2 OSS 1 / ONI FC/L JA 2 CA". Handwritten "11/3/44" with initials. Right margin: file numbers "894A.01/10-144" and "894A.01/10"; "CS/D".]

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Chungking, China
October 1, 1944

[CON]FIDENTIAL

No. 3029

Subject: Formation of Formosa Problems Investigation Committee

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that, according to the press and other sources of information available to the Embassy, an organization known as the "Formosa Problems Investigation Committee" has recently been established in Chungking under the aegis of the Central Planning Board. The latter Board, the function of which is to formulate and study plans for political and economic development, operates under the control of the Supreme National Defense Council, a directive organ of the Kuomintang.

The Formosa Problems Investigation Committee is reported to consist of eleven members: CHEN Yi, WANG Peng-sheng, HSIEH Nan-kuang, HUANG Chao-chin, LI Yu-pang, YU Erh-chien, CHIU Nien-tai, CHOU Yi-tsao, CHIEN Tsung-chi, SHEN Chung-chiu, and HSIA Tao-sheng. [The surnames are underlined by hand.]

General Chen Yi, Dean of the Central Training Corps and former Chairman of the Fukien Provincial Government, has been appointed Chairman of the Committee. Another well-known member of the Committee is General Wang Peng-sheng, the Generalissimo's advisor on Japanese Affairs. Mr. Hsieh Nan-kuang, now working in Chungking with General Wang Peng-sheng, is reputed to be the head of a Formosan revolutionary society. Mr. Huang Chao-chin, another member of the Committee, is an employee of the Department of Intelligence and Publicity of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

[Note: the "CON" of CONFIDENTIAL and the first letters of several lines at the lower left are covered by stamps; they are supplied from context.]

=== Page 28 ===
- 2 -

The establishment of this Committee is believed to signify an awakening, belated though it may be, of the interest of the Chinese Government in the future of Formosa, it being generally taken for granted in Chungking that following the defeat of Japan the Island of Formosa is to be returned to China. In recent years the Chinese authorities appear to have taken very little interest in Formosa; and there is good reason to believe that they are woefully uninformed in regard to developments on the Island and have had few tangible links with it. In this general connection American intelligence agencies in Chungking have had little success in obtaining information from the Chinese authorities in regard to Formosa. It seems likely that the rapid westward advance of the American forces in the Pacific and a feeling that an American occupation of Formosa is imminent were instrumental in bringing about the formation of this Committee at this time.

The function of the Committee, as indicated by its title, is reported to be largely investigational in character. In this connection, it is reliably reported that the Committee is undertaking to procure books and other material relating to Formosa from the United States. Presumably the Committee will also endeavor to despatch agents direct to the Island, although owing to reportedly stringent Japanese precautions this activity may not prove easy of accomplishment.

Although, as indicated above, information available in Chungking in regard to recent developments in Formosa is largely fragmentary and inconclusive, reports are circulating to the effect that the Formosan populace in general is desirous of throwing off the Japanese yoke and would consequently welcome American occupation of the Island. There are further reports that the Formosans, who are said to have attained a high degree of literacy under Japanese rule, are reluctant to subject themselves to Chinese governmental control exercised from the mainland. Instead, and as an alternative, a large section of the Formosan populace is represented as being desirous of establishing an independent state or at the very least of preserving local autonomy.

Respectfully yours,

[signature]
C. E. Gauss

Ozalid Original to the Department

EFD:reb

800 FORMOSA
