=== Page 5 ===
[Page number "119" at top left. Handwritten file number in right margin: "894A.01/16".]

Enclosure no. 1 to despatch 342 dated March 31, 1942 from American Embassy at Chungking

(C O P Y)

INAUGURATION MANIFESTO OF THE FORMOSAN REVOLUTIONARY FEDERATION

The Formosan Independence Revolutionary Party, the Formosan People's Revolutionary Federation, the Formosan Youth Revolutionary Party, the Formosan People's Revolutionary Party and the Formosan Revolutionary Party, for the purpose of concentrating their national strength in a common effort to overthrow the Japanese imperialism and to complete the revolutionary task, united themselves in march 1940 into the Union of All Formosan Revolutionary Organizations as a prelude to the national unification. According to a resolution recently passed by representatives of various revolutionary parties, the Union of All Formosan Revolutionary Organizations has been dissolved and the Formosan Revolutionary Federation has been established in order to strengthen the revolutionary front against enemy aggression. To our countrymen in Formosa, we wish to enumerate our revolutionary purposes.

Since the Sui Dynasty, Formosa has been a part of the Chinese territory, which our ancestors handed down to us. During the later part of the Ming Dynasty, Admiral Cheng Chen-kung led the Chinese people in resisting enemy invasion and based his operations in Formosa. Formosa had not fallen into the Japanese hands and its people had not been enslaved until 1894, when the Manchus were defeated by the Japanese and concluded the Shimonoseki Treaty, according to which the island of Formosa was ceded to Japan. Over forty years have passed. The Formosan people, though in an isolated island enveloped in the darkness, have not forgotten their fatherland with increasing hatred for the Japanese imperialists. They have for many times risen against oppression and over 500,000 Formosans have sacrificed their lives for the revolutionary task. However, their undaunted spirit prevails and their work continues.

Formosa's isolated geographical position makes it difficult to achieve quick success. Since the outbreak of the Chinese-Japanese hostilities in 1937, the spirit of the five million Formosans has been further enlightened. Many of them have returned to their Fatherland to join the national forces in resisting the enemy. Many of them are energetically engaged in secret revolutionary work in the island and are waiting for the opportune time for a concerted strike against the aggressor. We, members of the Formosan Revolutionary Federation, hold the opinion that China's war of resistance and the Formosan revolution are closely interrelated. The final victory of the Chinese nation against aggression will be one of the

most

=== Page 6 ===
- 2 -

most important factors of the liberation of the Formosan people. The Formosan revolution, on the other hand, is also helpful to the Chinese cause. At this critical moment, with clouds hanging low over the Pacific, the position of Formosa is of particular importance. We therefore wish our countrymen to be strong enough to rise against oppression and strive to recover our lost territory. We also appeal to the people on the mainland and our international friends to give every possible advice and support.

The purpose of establishing the Formosan Revolutionary Federation is to centralize the revolutionary power of the Formosan people in a common struggle under a unified front. Under such a purpose, we will stand under the Chinese national flag and fight against the Japanese imperialism. Our fatherland has not overlooked Formosa as an abandoned land. We, the Formosan people, should therefore rise under the nation's leader to struggle against a common foe in order to regain our freedom and [liberation?]. We shall fight hand in hand with all oppressed nations against Japanese aggression and reestablish peace and order in the Far East. We shall not rest until this goal is reached.

[Stamp, partly illegible: "(True copy: / Compared:" with handwritten initials.]

[Note: faint, broken type on this page; "liberation" is barely legible.]
