=== Page 1 ===
February 17, 1942.

FORMOSA

I

Historical Sketch*

[Stamp: DIVISION OF SPECIAL RESEARCH / OCT 14 1942 / DEPARTMENT OF STATE; “CC” at upper right.]
[Right-margin stamps: “894A.014/2”; “FILED OCT [?] 1942”; “PS/MMC”.]

Chinese historians begin the history of Formosa in 1430, when the island was visited by an officer of the Imperial Court. The existence of the island and something of its inhabitants and its geography were known to the Chinese for centuries before that time, however. In 1564 the first Chinese garrison was established at Formosa and a Chinese governor appointed. In the following 60 years communities were founded by Chinese and Japanese pirates and large numbers of Chinese farmers, chiefly Hakkas or outcast classes, came from Kwangtung Province to reclaim and farm the rich soil.

Early in the seventeenth century the Dutch established themselves in the Pescadores, the archipelago in the straits between Formosa and the south China mainland, to facilitate depredations on Spanish and Portuguese trade with China and to further their own commerce with south China. From this position the Dutch activities in adjacent

seas

*This section is a digest of the historical portions of “Formosa, Past and Present”, by James W. Davison, Consul of the United States for Formosa, MacMillan and Company, New York and London, 1903. The sources of this book were the original works of Dutch writers of the period of Dutch rule, the archives of the Spanish mission, ancient Chinese and Japanese writings, reports of the Imperial Chinese Maritime Customs, official Japanese reports, official French, American and British records, personal observation of and participation in many of the events related, and numerous private writings.

[Note: The day in the right-margin FILED stamp is obscured and is transcribed as [?].]

=== Page 2 ===
-1a-

seas and mainland ports became so troublesome to the Chinese that in 1623 the Chinese ceded Formosa to the Dutch in return for the restoration to China of the Pescadores. Dutch rule over Formosa lasted until 1662, when the Dutch were defeated and expelled from the island by the famous Chinese hero Cheng Kung, or Koxinga as he was known to Europeans.

Koxinga was born in Hirado, near Nagasaki, of a Chinese

trader

=== Page 3 ===
- 2 -

trader established in that town and a Japanese mother. Returning to China with his father, Koxinga grew up in the interregnum between the fall of the Ming Dynasty and the establishment of the Manchu Dynasty. Loyal to the Ming emperor, Koxinga organized and led resistance to the Manchus in south China and, in order to improve his strategic position, transferred his base of operations to Formosa. After overcoming and expelling the Dutch in Formosa, Koxinga continued fighting for the Mings on the mainland until their cause became hopeless, when he withdrew to Formosa with his followers and set up his own independent dynasty. This dynasty was short-lived, however, and in 1683 Koxinga’s incompetent son abdicated his throne and swore allegiance to the Manchus. In the next two centuries, despite the lawlessness, rebellions and native uprisings which seemed to have characterized early Formosan history, Chinese settlers from Fukien and Kwangtung Provinces swarmed into the island and settled the lowlands on the western side, while the savage aborigines slowly retreated to the mountainous jungles and precipitous fastnesses of the eastern coast. At the same time the productivity of the rich island increased and Formosa came to be looked upon by the Chinese as their granary. In 1850 the island was opened to foreign intercourse, the tea and camphor trade especially attracting many western merchants.

In

=== Page 4 ===
- 3 -

In the nineteenth century the aboriginal inhabitants of Formosa, a people of a particularly savage and untamable nature, were the cause of perennial diplomatic difficulties between China and the powers. These savages, as was mentioned above, inhabited the mountain fastnesses along the east coast and were in the habit of putting to death or making captives of European and Japanese mariners shipwrecked on that coast. Protests to the Chinese Government were ineffective for the reason that the Chinese had not yet extended their control over those inaccessible regions. Accordingly the powers from time to time resorted to “gunboat” diplomacy with the local Chinese authorities to compel action against the savages and in several cases themselves conducted expeditions against the savages. In 1867 a force of 181 men from the U.S.S. Hartford and Wyoming, under Admiral Bell, was sent against the savages to punish them for their murder earlier of the crew of the American bark Rover which was shipwrecked on their coast. The expedition was unsuccessful, and in his report of it Admiral Bell said that the only way to insure the safety of mariners shipwrecked off the east coast of Formosa was to clear that coast of savages and urged that the Chinese undertake this task.

In 1874 the Botan tribe of savages put to death the crew of a Loochoo Island fishing schooner wrecked on their coast.

The Loochooans

=== Page 5 ===
- 4 -

The Loochooans, claiming the Daimyo of Satsuma as their liege lord, petitioned the Japanese Government to redress this wrong. The Japanese accepted this petition, declared the Loochoo Islands a part of Japan, and pressed the Chinese to take punitive action against the savages. As the Chinese replied they could assume no responsibility for depredations committed beyond the area effectively controlled by them, the Japanese fitted out a strong expedition and took matters into their own hands, employing the former American consul at Amoy, General Le Gendre, and two former American naval officers as advisers to the expedition. The United States Minister to Japan protested against employment of Americans in the expedition unless the written consent of China to the expedition was first obtained by Japan and prevented the use as a transport for the expeditionary force of an American steamer engaged by the Japanese for that purpose. Regardless of these diplomatic complications, the Japanese expedition was carried out and the savages punished.

Formosa was also drawn into the Franco-Chinese war of 1884-85. The French conducted a long and costly campaign against the Chinese forces in the island but withdrew their forces with the peace treaty of June 9, 1885.

The following decade, the last of Chinese rule, was perhaps the happiest in Formosa’s turbulent history. Peace and order were restored, Formosa became a province of China, progress in all fields was made, and trade boomed.

With

=== Page 6 ===
- 5 -

With the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese war in 1894 Japan occupied the Pescadores, giving rise to unrest in Formosan cities. German, British and American warships proceeded to Formosan ports and landed forces to protect their respective communities there. On May 8, 1895 peace with Japan was signed and Formosa ceded to Japan. The people of Formosa, however, did not consent to the cession and on May 23 declared Formosa an independent republic under the suzerainty of China. The French too intervened diplomatically to prevent annexation. Disregarding these developments, the Japanese, however, sent large forces to the island and on June 17 inaugurated the Government General. A vigorous campaign against the Chinese forces followed and by October 21 the Formosan Republic came to an end.

Formosa in American Pacific History**

Although the United States, as indicated in the preceding section, appeared but rarely on the Formosan scene and then only in unimportant roles, the island was of considerable political interest to our representatives in the Far East during the eighteen-fifties.

The need of supplies of coal along the way in order to

establish

** This section is based on “Americans in Eastern Asia”, by Tyler Dennett, the MacMillan Company, New York, 1922. Mr. Dennett’s sources were manuscripts in United States Archives, U.S. Government publications, Texts of Treaties, British Parliamentary Papers, as well as privately published pamphlets, books, et cetera.

=== Page 7 ===
- 6 -

establish our steam navigation on the Pacific drew the attention of our representatives in China to three possible sources of coal; China, Japan and Formosa. Of these, Formosa was the first to be looked into. In 1847 officers of the American Navy made surveys of the coal resources of Formosa and in 1849 the U.S. Brig DOLPHIN made an expedition to Keelung (Formosa) for further exploration. Again in 1854, after signing the treaty opening up Japan and dispersing his squadron, Commodore Perry ordered two of his vessels to Manila and Formosa to investigate, with respect to the latter, the persistent reports of shipwrecked American sailors held in captivity and the reported coal mines. No captives were found, but coal of good quality and in abundance was found, and upon returning to the United States, Perry, who had been on the ship that went to Formosa, recommended that “the United States should take the initiative in this magnificent island” and even went so far as to speak of the necessity of extending the “territorial jurisdiction” of the United States to Formosa.

This may be the proper place to refer briefly to the American claim to the Loochoo Islands, the archipelago running from the northeast of Formosa to the southern tip of the Japanese main island group. On his first visit to Japan in 1853, Perry made “Great Lew Chew” (Okinawa Island) the

rendezvous

=== Page 8 ===
- 7 -

rendezvous for his squadron and successfully negotiated for a coal depot at Naha, which had the best harbor on the island--the President on February 15 of that year had approved the occupation of the principal ports of the Loochoos, which were assumed to belong to Japan, in case ports could not be obtained in Japan proper without resort to force. Perry kept one or more of his ships there constantly and on January 25, 1854, declared his intention of placing Great Lew Chew under the American flag--the President with reference to this declaration expressed disinclination to take and retain possession of this island. The conciliatory spirit of the Japanese on Perry’s second visit, however, removed the necessity of occupying the Loochoos and Perry therefore concluded a treaty with the King of the Loochoos on July 11, 1854, which was ratified by the Senate. When in 1872 Japan reasserted her claim to the islands--the first claim was made in 1862--the United States merely stipulated that Japan should become directly responsible for the maintenance of the rights of Americans secured by its treaty with the Loochoo King.

Returning to the story of Formosa, the visit to the island of Commodore Perry in 1854 increased the interest in the island of Americans in China and an American firm, Nye and Robinet, was formed to exploit Formosan trade. This firm secured the monopoly of the camphor trade, improved the

harbor

=== Page 9 ===
- 8 -

harbor of Takao and raised the American flag over the entrance to that harbor. The firm even suggested that it was willing to set up an independent government in Formosa provided this government was assured the approval and protection of the American Government. The American commissioner in China at that time, Dr. Peter Parker, was very hospitable to the idea of Nye and Robinet, and in 1856-1857 wrote to the State Department a series of impetuous letters urging the completion of the acquisition of Formosa. On his own responsibility Dr. Parker even addressed a protest to the British plenipotentiary in China against certain British action that seemed to Parker to indicate British designs on Formosa. Sympathetic to Dr. Parker’s policy was Commodore Armstrong, chief of the United States squadron in Asiatic waters, who proposed to Dr. Parker, and which proposal was readily sanctioned by Parker, that an officer be detached from his squadron to make another search for shipwrecked seamen “with the instructions to keep his headquarters and flag at the premises” of Nye and Robinet.

Dr. Parker’s despatches to the State Department concerning the acquisition of Formosa remained unanswered, but shortly after the installation of the Buchanan installation in 1857 a minister was appointed to China (in place of the former

commissioner),

=== Page 10 ===
- 8 -

harbor of Takao and raised the American flag over the entrance to that harbor. The firm even suggested that it was willing to set up an independent government in Formosa provided this government was assured the approval and protection of the American Government. The American commissioner in China at that time, Dr. Peter Parker, was very hospitable to the idea of Nye and Robinet, and in 1856-1857 wrote to the State Department a series of impetuous letters urging the completion of the acquisition of Formosa. On his own responsibility Dr. Parker even addressed a protest to the British plenipotentiary in China against certain British action that seemed to Parker to indicate British designs on Formosa. Sympathetic to Dr. Parker’s policy was Commodore Armstrong, chief of the United States squadron in Asiatic waters, who proposed to Dr. Parker, and which proposal was readily sanctioned by Parker, that an officer be detached from his squadron to make another search for shipwrecked seamen “with the instructions to keep his headquarters and flag at the premises” of Nye and Robinet.

Dr. Parker’s despatches to the State Department concerning the acquisition of Formosa remained unanswered, but shortly after the installation of the Buchanan installation in 1857 a minister was appointed to China (in place of the former

commissioner),

=== Page 11 ===
- 9 -

commissioner), whose instructions were very explicit and a complete disavowal of the policies of Perry, Parker and Armstrong. These instructions directed the new minister to let it be known to the Chinese authorities, among other things, that we had no intention to interfere in their political concerns or to gain a foothold in their country, but that we went to China to engage in trade.

Political Aspects of Formosa

Like all of Japan’s accretions to her Empire, Formosa was annexed when it was ready-made, after others had reclaimed it from the wilderness, settled it, built cities, pioneered and developed its resources and generally transformed it, after centuries of toil, into a going concern of priceless value. Formosa was in no way involved in Japan’s war of aggression on China of 1894-95, or related to the causes which led up to that war, which themselves were spurious, and the annexation of the island was an act of pure spoilation. Formosa’s people were predominantly Chinese, its trade was chiefly with China, and the nearby provinces of China depended largely on its crops for their food supply. Despite the lapse of years, there is every reason, economic, ethnical and moral, that Formosa should once more belong to China.

[Vertical line in right margin.]

The national interest of the United States in Formosa is commercial and strategic. We depend entirely on Formosa

for

=== Page 12 ===
- 10 -

for our supply of natural camphor and for a type of tea especially suited to our taste. Under Japanese rule, this camphor has been a state monopoly while Formosan tea, by discriminatory practices, has become a virtual monopoly of one or two Japanese quasi-official corporations, so that American consumers of these articles have been at the mercy of monopolies. As for general trade, American industry has been practically barred from the Formosan market by the same unfair practices. Thus it is in our national interest that the island should be in the hands of a nation traditionally liberal in trade regulation such as China. But far more important than the commercial aspects of the question are the strategic aspects. Formosa in the hands of an unfriendly power, especially a naval power, is a standing threat to the peaceful development and security of the peoples of southeastern Asia and Oceania and to our free intercourse with those peoples so vital to our national well-being.

[Handwritten initials or notation, illegible.]

[Typed routing initials at foot: “FE:L[illegible]on:MJK/MS”; middle letters overwritten by pen strokes.]

[Note: The handwritten notation below the text and part of the typed routing initials at the foot are illegible.]

=== Page 13 ===
[round stamp: ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS / MR. HORNBECK / FEB 19 1942]
February 17, 1942
[initials struck through]
[handwritten: FE / [initials?]]

FORMOSA

II

Introduction

[handwritten in left margin: 894A.01 / 740.0011 P.W.]

With the crystallization in recent years of Japan's plans for the domination of East Asia, Formosa (Taiwan) has assumed a role of increasing importance in the Japanese Empire. Japanese have described the island as a gigantic aircraft carrier giving easy access to the inviting lands of south China and the south seas. Formosa's strategic value is being proved in the present hostilities.

This memorandum is a brief preliminary sketch of Japan's administration of Formosa and of the character and attitudes of the people of Formosa. The information may possibly contribute toward the evaluation of the problem which Formosa presents in the Pacific war. This problem will include considerations of the possibility of revolutionary activity by the Formosans against the Japanese, tactics to be adopted with regard to Formosa, and the eventual disposition of Formosa at the time of a peace settlement.

Population

The population of Formosa according to statistics as of 1938, numbered 5,746,959 persons. Of these, approximately 93% were of Chinese race. Japanese numbered 308,845 and aborigines who are racially akin to the wild tribes of the northern Philippines and to certain peoples

of
[Note: Struck-through initials at top right are obliterated; handwritten notation below FE is uncertain.]

=== Page 14 ===
-2-

of Borneo, 155,921.

The Administration of Formosa

The administration of Formosa has been carried on in close coordination with the armed services of Japan. For a number of years the post of Governor-General of Formosa has been held by a ranking admiral of the Japanese Navy. The present Governor-General, Admiral Hasegawa, has held some of the most important naval posts, including that of commander-in-chief of the South China fleet, commander-in-chief of the Yokosuka Naval Station and member of the Supreme War Council.

The Formosa Government-General has exercised an unusual degree of autonomy for a colonial administration. Until recently under the control of the Overseas Ministry, there has long been agitation for the setting up of a South Seas Administration in Formosa in which would be centered control of Japan's activities in South China and the South Seas. Control from Tokyo has been resented, it having been pointed out on various occasions by Japanese in Taiwan that the central government failed to appreciate the importance of Formosa to the Japanese Empire. In actual practice, opinions of the Foreign Office have at times apparently been given slight consideration by the Government General.

The forms of government in Formosa are similar to those in Japan. The native population, although entitled to

participate

=== Page 15 ===
-3-

participate in government, actually plays no important part. Higher official positions are appointive and are invariably filled by Japanese. Local organizations of Formosans are so closely supervised by the police that no opportunity is ever presented for the formulation of any plans or proposals originating with the Formosans.

By the letter of the law, Formosans are entitled to representation in the government by election to local assemblies. These assemblies exist in towns, villages, cities, provinces and prefectures. One half of the membership of these bodies is elected; the remainder is appointed by the provincial governor. The last election was held in November, 1939. Suffrage is limited to male subjects, 25 years of age or over, who fulfill certain other residence, tax, and police requirements. Except in one village Japanese members of these assemblies greatly outnumber the Formosans.

The Japanese have attempted, and to a large extent succeeded, in utilizing the traditional Chinese village organizations for the promulgation of patriotic ideas. Wherever possible, they have seen to it that young Formosans who have been subjected to Japanese instruction in the public schools and who speak the Japanese language, succeed to the headships of these units in the place of

village

=== Page 16 ===
-4-

village "elders" less thoroughly impregnated with Japanese ideals. Effective police supervision controls the activities of such organizations.

The Character of the Formosan
People

With the exception of some 150,000 aborigines and about 310,000 Japanese, the population of Formosa is Chinese. Most Chinese who emigrated to Formosa belonged to the Haklos and Hakka groups, the former originating in Fukien province and the latter in Kwangtung. The great majority of Formosan Chinese are of Fukienese origin and the so-called "Formosan" language is the Fukienese dialect with certain corruptions. Cantonese still survives among certain groups of Hakka origin.

Latest available statistics showing origins of the Formosan Chinese are for the year 1935, as follows:

Origins of Formosan Chinese Population

Fukien        4,036,630
Canton          744,267
Others              232
              ---------
              4,781,129

At the time of Chinese infiltration into Taiwan, clashes between Chinese and aborigines occurred frequently. The savages retired gradually to the mountainous regions, however, and for many years travel in their territory was exceedingly dangerous.

Relations between the Japanese and the aborigines

have
[Note: The digit '1' in '310,000' and 'w' in 'who' are lightly struck but clearly legible.]

=== Page 17 ===
-5-

have not always been peaceful. As recently as 1930 an insurrection in which 197 Japanese were massacred, occurred. Since that time there have been sporadic incidents, usually resulting from resentment by the savages at the actions or treatment meted out by the police, who exercise dictatorial control over them.

It has been the policy of the Japanese administration to evacuate the savage villagers from remote mountainous districts to the plains, where they can be more easily supervised and can be taught to engage in productive pursuits. The Japanese have classified the aboriginal population according to their degree of "civilization" and some households are exempted from police supervision. In 1938 there were 21 "plains" villages (a term used by the Japanese to designate villages of aborigines settled in plains regions) with a population of 6,454 and 408 villages in segregated mountainous districts with a population of 88,231, under police administration. Approximately 60,000 aborigines were stated to be living outside police control.

Religious and Social Control of the Inhabitants
of Formosa

The Japanese have consistently pursued a policy of eradicating in Formosa all traces of Chinese culture, customs and religion. The traditional Chinese theater and puppet plays are banned; Chinese festivals are prohibited; wearing of the Chinese costume is discouraged;

many
[Note: The letter 'p' is lightly struck throughout the upper portion of the page.]

=== Page 18 ===
-6-

Chinese temples have been destroyed, the Formosans being urged to worship at the Japanese Shinto shrines now erected in most of the towns and villages. Intensive efforts have been made, especially since the beginning of the China Incident, to force the population to learn and use exclusively the Japanese language. According to a publication of the Formosa Government-General, 45% of the Formosan population could speak Japanese in 1939. This figure would appear to be an exaggeration since in Formosa one actually is able to converse in Japanese only with Formosans who have received a Japanese education or with school children.

Education Control

Formosans have not been permitted to attend the same elementary schools as the Japanese. While, in theory, Formosans may be admitted to the middle and high schools, and to the university in Taihoku, in actual practice the percentage of Formosan students as compared to the Japanese, is remarkably small. Of a total enrollment in Taihoku Imperial University in 1938 of 580 students , only 178 were Formosan. Of these, 148 were studying medicine, since that is apparently the only profession in which the Formosans can compete on an equal basis with the Japanese.

There is little mingling between Formosan and

Japanese

=== Page 19 ===
-7-

Japanese students in the schools in Formosa, the Japanese invariably assuming an attitude of superiority which permits no comradeship. Only one professor at the Imperial University in Taihoku is Formosan and his must be a department of one member since no Japanese will consent to serve under him.

Instruction in the schools of Formosa is directed to the inculcation of Japanese patriotism and the eradication of all vestiges of Chinese lore and ideas. An elaborate system of language and training institutes has been set up throughout the island to instruct the adult population in the virtues of Imperial Japan. Several thousand organizations of various types, all designed to further the Japanization of the Formosans and their spiritual mobilization, were in existence in 1939.

Estimate of the Attitudes of the Formosan People

While the lackadaisacal nature of the Formosans and their lack of initiative have always precluded the possibility of a successful uprising against their rulers or even of an undercover organization, certainly it is true that they smart under the rule of the Japanese who, far from putting into practice their vaunted ideals of Asiatic brotherhood, have treated the inhabitants of Formosa as an inferior, subject race. The ambitious,

educated

=== Page 20 ===
-8-

educated Formosan finds no opportunity in Formosa. No profession, except that of medicine, is open to him. No position in the government is open to him. Unless he comes of a family owning an established business which he can enter, he cannot hope for a career offering advancement compensatory to ability. For this reason, ambitious young Formosans have sought employment in Japan Proper, where there is less discrimination, or in occupied China, where a knowledge of both Japanese and Chinese is of value.

Since the beginning of the conflict between Japan and China the control of the lives of the Formosans has become progressively more onerous. The farmer has been told what to plant, how much to plant, and what price he may receive. He has been forced to contribute livestock, produce and money to the Government in order to prosecute the war against China. His living has become more expensive.

[vertical line in right margin] It is believed that, if the opportunity presented itself, the Formosan Chinese would turn against the Japanese. They would not do so, however, until a Japanese defeat and their liberation had become certainties.

The Success of Japanese Administration of Formosa

The Japanese refer to Formosa as a model colonial

administration

=== Page 21 ===
-9-

administration and suggest that the Chinese in China should be attracted by the "paradise" which the Japanese have created for their brothers on this island. However, in actual fact Formosa has been administered for the benefit of Japan and the Japanese have been completely indifferent to the well-being or aspirations of the Formosan Chinese. Taiwan has supplied Japan with rice and sugar, has brought profits in the form of exports of tea and camphor and is now playing a very important military role in Japan's war. Uprisings by both Formosan Chinese and aborigines have been relentlessly suppressed. In one instance 867 death sentences were imposed on revolting Formosans.

The tightening of police control in the past few years and the imposition of complete censorship in the island have prevented recent outbreaks or, if such occurred, have prevented their being made public. Japanese methods can only have served to keep the resentment glowing.

Japan's administration of Formosa can be called successful only from the point of view of Japan. The Formosans have followed the will of their conquerors because there has been no alternative. The loyalty they express for Japan does not run deep.

Conclusions

[check mark in right margin] 1. A revolution of the natives of Formosa against Japanese rule might occur at a time when the Japanese are

suffering
[Note: Characters with descenders and loops are lightly struck on upper half of page.]

=== Page 22 ===
-10-

suffering major military defeats. Such an uprising is decidedly unlikely before that time.

2. It is believed that propaganda appeals by radio or other means would have little effect upon the Formosan population until such time as the Japanese are beginning to suffer reverses. At that time, long-wave broadcasts from powerful stations in China addressed to the Formosan people should be instituted. Although short-wave sets are non-existent in Formosa, long-wave receiving sets are common. On these sets the Formosans listen to broadcasts from stations both in Japan Proper and in Formosa itself. Emphasizing the Chinese heritage of the Formosans, broadcasts in the Formosan dialect should dwell upon the freedom from Japanese bondage which a United Nations victory promises.

3. The eventual disposition of Formosa following the establishment of peace is a question which must receive the most careful consideration. Unlike Korea, Formosa has had no important independence movement. The wisdom of setting up an independent Formosa appears doubtful. Not only are there few Formosan leaders capable of organizing a stable government but a "return to China" appeal would likely meet with greater enthusiasm among the Formosans than the prospect of independence.

[handwritten in lower-left margin: 740.00119 P.W.] It would appear logical that Formosa should again become part of China. At the same time the strategic position of Formosa makes it of direct concern to the United States. For our future security in the Pacific, bases in

Formosa
[Note: Item 2 is faintly typed, though legible in context.]

=== Page 23 ===
-11-

Formosa would be of great value. It therefore appears that a peace settlement which placed Formosa under the sovereignty of China but which reserved certain rights to the United States -- such as the maintenance of air and naval bases -- would be worthy of consideration. However, it is probably premature to attempt to give definitive consideration to the question of the future of Formosa.

[handwritten initials: J.K.E.?]

FE: [signature: Emmerson] Emmerson:NHS - MHP
[Note: Upper lines have faint typing on some characters; handwritten initials below text appear to be J.K.E.]
