=== Page 19 ===
[Stamps: Department of State, Division of Communications and Records (clock stamp, date partly illegible); “RECD”; “Division of Far Eastern Affairs, JUN 13 1931, Department of State,” with initials and “file”; “JUN 12 31” stamped over the Subject line. Handwritten: “FE” at top right; file notation “894A.00/16” in the right margin; “FILED JUN 15 1931” in the right margin. Other routing marks are partly illegible.]

No. [?].

AMERICAN CONSULATE,

Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, June 8, 1931.

CONFIDENTIAL.

SUBJECT: Disturbances in the Savage Regions of Taiwan.

THE HONORABLE
    THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
        WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to refer to my Consular Despatch No. 88 dated May 8, 1931 concerning disturbances in the savage regions of Taiwan and the massacre of over 200 members of the Seepow and Rodof tribes by the Tatsua tribe. In view of additional information concerning this incident which has come to light through additional translations of the local press, it is necessary to make certain corrections and to include further explanations.

It would seem from these translations that the Togan tribe was one of the “allied” tribes and not of the “protected” tribes as had been surmised from earlier accounts. It would also appear that there is no attempt to explain the decapitation of the 3 women of the Togan tribe by the “protected” Musha tribe other than as revenge for assistance in the pursuit of and evidence against the revolting tribes after the affair of last October. Collating all reports now at hand, it is patent that the authorities are giving this incident (if it really happened) as an

exculpatory

[Note: The despatch number at upper left is cropped and unreadable. Stamps obscure part of the Subject line, and the opening paragraph is faint; the date and wording there were checked against a 260-dpi grayscale rendering. Several routing marks remain illegible.]

=== Page 20 ===
- 2 -

exculpatory motive for the later attack by the Tatsua tribe on the Seepow and Rodof tribesmen.

[Several lines are illegible.] The [illegible] relation [illegible] whether before or after the alleged slaying of the 3 women is not clear.

In any case, it is certain that between the date of the demand for surrendering of the weapons and the date set for the surrendering, there was sufficient time to plan and carry out the massacre undisturbed by police intervention. [Illegible sentence fragment] surrendering of these munitions and therefore the fear of reprisals on the part of the “protected” tribes, the slaying of the 3 women of the Togan tribe being stated by the police as being one, can not be considered seriously as an activating cause of the subsequent massacre.

In any case, all accounts agree that various incidents prior to the massacre pointed to strained relations between the “allied” and the “protected” tribes and that the former, having rifles and ammunition, needed but the slightest of excuses to attack the defenseless tribesmen and their villages. Furthermore, all accounts agree that the police, knowing of this desire to attack the “protected” tribes or wilfully oblivious to this situation, acted in a manner

which

[Note: The first half of the page is extremely faint. The opening continuation and the final paragraph are readable, but several intervening lines and a sentence fragment after “police intervention” are illegible even in a normalized 260-dpi grayscale crop.]

=== Page 21 ===
- 3 -

which [illegible], at least passively, [illegible].

It is [illegible]. [Several lines illegible.] [Illegible] turned to the authorities, [illegible] this space of time was actually utilized [so?] that their revenge might be consummated and that, as innuendo has it, their friends, the [illegible] authorities, be offered a very plausible [excuse?] for inactivity.

I enclose herewith a clipping from the Japan Chronicle of April 30, 1931 which editorially discusses this most recent trouble of tribesmen. It is noted that this editorial touches upon, in no uncertain manner, the degree of culpability of the Japanese authorities, following the same lines and stressing the same points set forth in my previous despatch. There is no question that all unbiased observers agree as to this measure of culpability.

As for the punishment to be meted out, the following would seem to be pertinent. The Police Bureau of the Taiwan Government General has stated that the leaders of the Tatsua tribe have been called to the local police station and have been rebuked for their attacks in defiance of instructions previously given to them. These leaders have apologized for these attacks and have asked for leniency inasmuch as, although they have offended against instruction, the

[Note: The first eleven lines below the page header are extremely faint. Only isolated phrases are recoverable from the normalized 260-dpi grayscale crop; “so” and “excuse” are uncertain readings. The remainder is readable but lightly typed.]

=== Page 22 ===
- 4 -

the savages beheaded in the massacre were the slayers of innocent Japanese last October. It is also reported that the Department of Overseas Affairs have taken the view that, as this was inter-tribal conflict and no revolt against authority, there would be or should be no further developments. In other words, there will be no punishment save the trifling measures of surrendering rifles already ordered surrendered and the surrendering of the heads of the decapitated “protected” tribesmen.

Respectfully yours,

[Signature: Charles S. Reed II]
Charles S. Reed II
American Vice Consul.

Enclosure:
    Clipping from the
    Japan Chronicle.

File No. 800
CSR:TKH

In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

[Stamp: Carbon Copies] [Handwritten initials partly illegible.]

[Note: The handwritten initials beside the “Carbon Copies” stamp are partly illegible.]

=== Page 23 ===
MORE TROUBLE IN FORMOSA.

SOMETHING very sinister runs through the story of the latest Formosan trouble. It will be remembered that last October the Musha tribe killed a number of policemen and their families, and were duly punished. The accounts of how it all happened were not particularly satisfactory. One story had it that the trouble arose over the rejection of an aboriginal woman whom a policeman had taken as his mistress; this, apparently, was not denied; but exactly what significance lay in the other story of the offence taken because a policeman would not drink at a popular festival was never explained. It was also confessed that there had been a good deal of forced (and unpaid) labour which the tribe greatly resented.

The punitive operations taken against the tribe, were fated not to be the sole penalty which they were to suffer for their rebellion. It appears that in the troubles of October two tribes had given their assistance to the Japanese authorities—the Tatsua and the Togan clans. To these a large number of rifles and a large quantity of ammunition were distributed, so that the statement that the assistance afforded by these tribes was the giving of evidence against the Musha seems hardly adequate. They presumably took part in the punitive measures also. But, stranger still, they were allowed to retain the arms and cartridges. Only after six months did a party of police go up to demand their return. The story as published in the newspapers is somewhat compressed, and it is not very clear when the demand for the return of the arms was made, except that it was some time before the outrage now reported. What is not at all clear is whether it was before or after three Togan women had (as is alleged) been captured by members

[Continuation fragment in a separate clipping column:]

have had an excellent argument for retaining them in order to protect themselves from the bloody-minded Musha. However, the accounts say nothing of any objections in principle being raised to the surrender of the arms. Instead, during the days of grace that they had managed to get, they conspired together, surrounded the villages of the Musha, and, just before dawn, massacred their 184 inhabitants, and burnt all their houses. A surprise attack, of course, is always in favour of the assailants, but nothing could explain how it came about that 184 members of a warlike tribe were

[Intervening text is not visible in this scan.]

the problem. But it cannot be described as a very successful essay at civilising a people who have many good qualities.

[Note: The relevant clipping is interrupted by an upside-down advertisement and unrelated upside-down newspaper matter. The first column ends after “members”; the adjacent continuation begins mid-sentence, then jumps from “were” to the article’s concluding words because intervening text is outside or obscured in this scan.]

=== Page 24 ===
have had an excellent argument for retaining them in order to protect themselves from the bloody-minded Musha. However, the accounts say nothing of any objections in principle being raised to the surrender of the arms. Instead, during the days of grace that they had managed to get, they conspired together, surrounded the villages of the Musha, and, just before dawn, massacred their 184 inhabitants, and burnt all their houses. A surprise attack, of course, is always in favour of the assailants, but nothing could explain how it came about that 184 members of a warlike tribe were massacred with only one casualty to the attackers, except the fact the murderers were all armed with modern rifles, whereas the villagers had nothing but their primitive weapons, not to speak of their being attacked in their sleep.

The question arises whether the revenge for the three women was the motive of the attack at all. The account given in the Japan Advertiser says that the Tatsua tribe had been contemplating vengeance “for some time” against their enemies, and decided to take it before surrendering the rifles.

After the events of last October it may be supposed that the relations between the Tatsua and the Musha were not particularly cordial; and it is incomprehensible why the Tatsua tribe, however friendly, should be allowed to remain so formidably armed, or, if it was considered that they must be enabled to protect themselves from Musha vengeance, why the police should choose the very moment when three women of the other friendly tribe had been murdered, to demand the return of the rifles.

If it is true that this wanton murder of women took place, nothing could be better calculated to precipitate the tragedy than the demand for the rifles. The tribe would naturally consider that they must give their enemies a lesson while they could; and when they demurred at giving up the arms, the police must have been very obtuse not to understand why this delay was sought. Consequently the story that the assailants did all their work, cut off a hundred and eighty-four heads, and ran off the woods before the police could come within sight of them argues a good deal of contributory negligence.

One account states that the Tatsua chieftains are under police surveillance pending punishment—not, apparently, under arrest; and that most of the rifles and ammunition have been “confiscated.” Another says that, following the massacre, the tribesmen surrendered the rifles to the police, with expressions of the deepest regret that they had been so impulsive, and had been severely admonished by the police. The tribesmen

=== Page 25 ===
[Faint annotation: Editorial from Japan Chronicle, April 30, 1931.]

MORE TROUBLE IN FORMOSA.

SOMETHING very sinister runs through the story of the latest Formosan trouble. It will be remembered that last October the Musha tribe killed a number of policemen and their families, and were duly punished. The accounts of how it all happened were not particularly satisfactory. One story had it that the trouble arose over the rejection of an aboriginal woman whom a policeman had taken as his mistress; this, apparently, was not denied; but exactly what significance lay in the other story of the offence taken because a policeman would not drink at a popular festival was never explained. It was also confessed that there had been a good deal of forced (and unpaid) labour which the tribe greatly resented.

The punitive operations taken against the tribe, were fated not to be the sole penalty which they were to suffer for their rebellion. It appears that in the troubles of October two tribes had given their assistance to the Japanese authorities—the Tatsua and the Togan clans. To these a large number of rifles and a large quantity of ammunition were distributed, so that the statement that the assistance afforded by these tribes was the giving of evidence against the Musha seems hardly adequate. They presumably took part in the punitive measures also. But, stranger still, they were allowed to retain the arms and cartridges. Only after six months did a party of police go up to demand their return. The story as published in the newspapers is somewhat compressed, and it is not very clear when the demand for the return of the arms was made, except that it was some time before the outrage now reported. What is not at all clear is whether it was before or after three Togan women had (as is alleged) been captured by members of the Musha tribe and decapitated.

Nor are there any details explaining this atrocity. The kidnapping of women for the sake of their heads is not the usual method of the head-hunter, who is traditionally a more daring raider than such an act would suggest. It seems more likely that this was some special act of vengeance, possibly connected with the part that the women (or perhaps one or two of the three) had [illegible].

[Separate continuation column:]

and ammunition have been “confiscated.” Another says that, following the massacre, the tribesmen surrendered the rifles to the police, with expressions of the deepest regret that they had been so impulsive, and had been severely admonished by the police. The tribesmen are said to have surrendered possession of a hundred out of the hundred and eighty-four heads, and to have promised in future to abstain from all violence against the Musha tribe. The worth of that promise would appear to depend upon the number of Musha left. After their punishment for the October rebellion and the present massacre, they must be seriously depleted in number.

The affair is worth an official inquiry, and it is a pity that by the time the Diet meets again so many months will have passed that it will be in danger of being forgotten. The new Department of Overseas Affairs gives the members of the Diet an opportunity of insisting upon information which formerly they could only demand of the Premier, who, not being in direct charge of the overseas dominions, could always play for time and put off replying. The Department should also be held responsible for what takes place in the Dominions.

In this affair, it looks as though the Tatsua tribe had been expecting some hostile move from the Musha, but that, since nothing had happened, they had made what excuse they could for “vengeance,” and the Musha, in spite of their inactivity since October, do not seem to have been afforded any protection. Fears of vengeance might easily induce the Tatsua to become aggressors, but such a fear can hardly be regarded as a sufficiently good excuse for a general massacre.

In the circumstances the massacre takes on the aspect of a belated and excessively savage punishment for their previous rebellion. The peculiarity of Formosan native affairs is that it is always when everything seems most peaceful that the most formidable outbreaks occur. Here, for instance, the Tatsua have had deadly weapons in their possession for over six months, but it is not until the police pay them a friendly visit, when they ought to be on their best behaviour, that they break out into an act of savagery exaggerated by the possession of modern weapons.

Evidently there still remains a good deal to learn about the ideas and motives which sway the aboriginal tribes. All the mistakes made tend to reduce the number of the aborigines and so bring us towards the liquidation of the problem. But it cannot be described as a very successful essay at civilising a people who have many good qualities.

[Note: The lower-left column becomes blackened. The word after “had” is illegible; the continuation below it is cut off or unreadable. The annotation above the headline is faint; “Japan Chronicle, April 30, 1931” is a likely reading.]

=== Page 26 ===
MORE TROUBLE IN FORMOSA.

SOMETHING very sinister runs through the story of the latest Formosan trouble. It will be remembered that last October the Musha tribe killed a number of policemen and their families, and were duly punished. The accounts of how it all happened were not particularly satisfactory. One story had it that the trouble arose over the rejection of an aboriginal woman whom a policeman had taken as his mistress; this, apparently, was not denied; but exactly what significance lay in the other story of the offence taken because a policeman would not drink at a popular festival was never explained. It was also confessed that there had been a good deal of forced (and unpaid) labour which the tribe greatly resented.

The punitive operations taken against the tribe, were fated not to be the sole penalty which they were to suffer for their rebellion. It appears that in the troubles of October two tribes had given their assistance to the Japanese authorities—the Tatsua and the Togan clans. To these a large number of rifles and a large quantity of ammunition were distributed, so that the statement that the assistance afforded by these tribes was the giving of evidence against the Musha seems hardly adequate. They presumably took part in the punitive measures also. But, stranger still, they were allowed to retain the arms and cartridges. Only after six months did a party of police go up to demand their return. The story as published in the newspapers is somewhat compressed, and it is not very clear when the demand for the return of the arms was made, except that it was some time before the outrage now reported. What is not at all clear is whether it was before or after three Togan women had (as is alleged) been captured by members of the Musha tribe and decapitated.

Nor are there any details explaining this atrocity. The kidnapping of women for the sake of their heads is not the usual method of the head-hunter, who is traditionally a more daring raider than such an act would suggest. It seems more likely that this was some special act of vengeance, possibly connected with the part that the women (or perhaps one or two of the three) had played in the “evidence” business.

We come to the main act in the [illegible]. It is stated that, on being called upon to return the rifles and ammunition that had been lent to them, the Tatsua tribesmen surrendered a few and put off returning [illegible]. [The remainder of the lower-left column is illegible.]

[Separate continuation column:]

and eighty-four heads, and to have promised in future to abstain from all violence against the Musha tribe. The worth of that promise would appear to depend upon the number of Musha left. After their punishment for the October rebellion and the present massacre, they must be seriously depleted in number.

The affair is worth an official inquiry, and it is a pity that by the time the Diet meets again so many months will have passed that it will be in danger of being forgotten. The new Department of Overseas Affairs gives the members of the Diet an opportunity of insisting upon information which formerly they could only demand of the Premier, who, not being in direct charge of the overseas dominions, could always play for time and put off replying. The Department should also be held responsible for what takes place in the Dominions.

In this affair, it looks as though the Tatsua tribe had been expecting some hostile move from the Musha, but that, since nothing had happened, they had made what excuse they could for “vengeance,” and the Musha, in spite of their inactivity since October, do not seem to have been afforded any protection. Fears of vengeance might easily induce the Tatsua to become aggressors, but such a fear can hardly be regarded as a sufficiently good excuse for a general massacre.

In the circumstances the massacre takes on the aspect of a belated and excessively savage punishment for their previous rebellion. The peculiarity of Formosan native affairs is that it is always when everything seems most peaceful that the most formidable outbreaks occur. Here, for instance, the Tatsua have had deadly weapons in their possession for over six months, but it is not until the police pay them a friendly visit, when they ought to be on their best behaviour, that they break out into an act of savagery exaggerated by the possession of modern weapons.

Evidently there still remains a good deal to learn about the ideas and motives which sway the aboriginal tribes. All the mistakes made tend to reduce the number of the aborigines and so bring us towards the liquidation of the problem. But it cannot be described as a very successful essay at civilising a people who have many good qualities.

[Note: The lower-left column is heavily blackened. The noun after “main act in the” and the words after “put off returning” are illegible; all text below that point in the left column is unreadable.]
