=== Page 7 ===
December 11, 1941

MEMORANDUM

Since April, 1941, the Province of Takao (S. Formosa) has been closed to foreigners, even resident Spanish missionaries having been required to leave. An Italian freighter which had been at refuge in Takao since June, 1940, was ordered by the Japanese naval authorities to move to Kobe. The whole of the southern half of Formosa has become a military garrison (strength of effectives not ascertainable); the beaches are fortified against possible attack, and the harbor of Takao has been steadily improved for troops embarkations (the transports themselves being based at the Pescadores since Takao is open to heavy seas throughout the summer months and is not suitable for basing large numbers of transports).

Throughout the Island there has been almost continuous air raid drill. This consists largely of training the Formosan public to cooperate in extinguishing fires and controlling lights. Anti-aircraft guns have not been visible (or audible) on any of these occasions and it is impossible to say if and where they exist. Searchlights have been of antique pattern.

Up until the end of July, Japanese war planes seen in the sky over North Formosa were of not very modern design and their speed seemed very moderate. From the end of July, planes of more modern design and higher speed were seen. Planes based on the northern airdrome at Taihoku were used for bombing the China coast (Fukien and Chekiang Provinces), the main defense and striking force being concentrated in the south of the Island, opposite Hong Kong. It is presumed that the authorities consider that any hostile air attack would come from the south and that it could be broken up before getting farther north.

There are few air raid shelters in the principal towns, and much publicity was being given to the need for building more, Japanese householders in many cases being canvassed and ordered to construct one for each group of houses, but these facilities were (up to the end of July) quite inadequate. Experiments were going on for the conversion of drain-water to drinking water in case of emergency. "Emergency, emergency, emergency" and "preparedness, preparedness, preparedness" were the constant cries of the newspapers and the armies. [Double pencil line in the left margin beside the last sentences.]

[Note: the date line, heading and first paragraph are in faint type; the date "December 11, 1941" is read with difficulty.]

=== Page 8 ===
[Page number at top too faint to read.]

In (?) May, the Governor General introduced a volunteer system for Formosans. A similar system had been introduced into Korea in 1938 and had met with some success, the young Koreans having become saturated with the fervent nationalism taught in the Japanese Army. The nebulous mysticism which is the core of this spirit is essentially Oriental in character and it is a mistake to suppose that a governed people like the Koreans and Formosans, in spite of the subordinate positions in which they are deliberately held, regard it as alien and compulsory. In the hands of the Japanese educationalists, as they have been for a quarter and a half a century respectively, their minds have been methodically conditioned to this doctrine and the young generation now rising will be a tremendously powerful instrument in the Japanese nationalists' hands unless steps are taken now or very soon to break the Japanese military power and discredit their doctrines in the minds of the young. [Pencil bracket in the right margin.]

If it is left much longer, action may already be too late. The jubilation and martial air of the Formosan children when marching in procession to celebrate the opening of the army ranks to Formosan volunteers was not assumed to order, although the processions themselves were, of course, organized. It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the conditioning of the young for national expansion is older and more fanatical (vide their school textbooks and, for adults, popular literature) than anything Germany has known. [Pencil marks in the left margin.]

The intention is quite definitely to strive to throw the white man out of the Far East, including Germans, Italians and what have you. Any temporary modification of their program is purely a matter of expedience--a marking time until the moment is ripe. What the military will not, and indeed cannot, give up is the program on which they have embarked.

The Japanese as a nation are not anti-British or anti-American--they are anti-White and they, themselves, have no love racially for the Germans, but cannot help themselves, hence we get the backlash.

Canadian and American citizens of Japanese ancestry cannot be trusted. I have definite knowledge of where they have betrayed the countries of their citizenship--and when caught their excuse is they were forced by Japanese authorities against their own desires--highly debatable!

[Pencil ticks mark the start of several sentences; "Japanese ancestry" is underlined by hand. Note: the first lines of the page ("In (?) May … introduced a volunteer" and "The nebulous mysticism … it is a mistake") are faint but legible.]
