=== Page 167 ===
Enclosure to Report No. 49, dated March 2, 1939,
from American Consulate General, Tokyo, Japan.

CONCERNING ENTRY INTO, SOJOURN IN AND DEPARTURE
FROM JAPAN OF FOREIGNERS.

Article 1. In the present ordinance "entry into" is confined to cases where foreigners sojourn in Japan for 15 days or more, and "passing through" Japan means staying in the country less than 15 days.

Article 2. A foreigner coming to Japan falling under any of the following categories shall be prohibited by the local governor (superintendent of the Metropolitan Police Board in the case of Tokyo Prefecture, this provision to hold throughout the ordinance) from entering or passing through Japan:

1. A foreigner not possessing a passport, nationality certificate or equivalent certificate.

2. A foreigner who is liable to act contrary to the interests of the Empire or to further the interests of an enemy country.

3. A foreigner who is liable to disturb public peace or derange public morals.

4. A foreigner suffering from an infectious disease or from any disease dangerous to public health.

5. A foreigner without full possession of his faculties with a subnormal frailty of mind, in a state of dire poverty or otherwise liable to require the aid of others.

6. A foreigner violating the stipulation in Paragraph 2 of Article 5.

The passport, nationality certificate or any certificate equivalent to the same stated above shall be confined to such as has pasted on it a photograph of the person concerned, such as has been issued by the Government authorities of the country of which the person concerned is a national or by other authorities specified by international usage and such as has been visaed by a Japanese Ambassador, Minister or consular official abroad within a year prior to the landing of the person on Japanese soil, or sea passage certificate issued by the same.

The

=== Page 168 ===
- 2 -

The visa shall be an entry visa or a passage visa. A passage visa shall be good for one and only one occasion.

[Left-margin handwriting: "2" with a dot; vertical line beside Article 3.]

Article 3. A foreigner landing on Japanese soil by aircraft who falls under any of the specifications in Paragraph 1 of the preceding article shall be ordered by the local governor to alight and to depart by the earliest aircraft or ship leaving Japan.

Article 4. In regard to a national of a country which does not require the presentation by a Japanese subject of a passport, a nationality certificate or a certificate equivalent thereto in entering the said country, the first stipulation under Paragraph 1 of Article 2 may be waived in his favor, while in regard to a national of a country which does not require the visa of the authorities of the said country on the passport, nationality certificate or certificate equivalent thereto of a Japanese subject, the stipulation in Paragraph 2 of the same article may be waived in his favor.

Article 5. A foreigner coming to Japan shall not enter or pass through Japan until after inspection by a police officer at the port of entry. The same ruling applies in the case of arrival by aircraft.

In the inspection stipulated in the preceding paragraph, the foreigner concerned shall enter the facts required on Form No. 1 appended to the present ordinance, shall sign the said form, shall present, on demand by the said police officer, his passport and other necessary papers and shall answer truthfully the necessary questions.

Article 6. In case a foreigner has not in his possession a prima facie passport, nationality certificate or certificate equivalent thereto but has legitimate reasons for not possessing the same, the local governor concerned may permit the entry or passage of the said foreigner.

A foreigner in the fifth category of paragraph 1 of Article 2, if he has a reliable attendant or another person vouching for his care during his term of sojourn and to the local Governor deems it proper, may be permitted to enter or pass through the country by special permission.

A foreigner applying for this special permission shall write out Form No. 2 appended to the present ordinance and present it to the governor of the prefecture where he is landing.

A

=== Page 169 ===
- 3 -

A local governor giving to a foreigner the special permission stipulated in Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2 shall issue a special permission certificate or a special passage permission certificate in accordance with Form 3 appended to the present ordinance. If the foreigner possesses a passport or any other kind of certificate, the local governor shall stamp a mark on it signifying special entry permission or special passage permission in accordance with Form No. 4 appended to the present ordinance.

A foreigner passing through Japan who seeks "entry" shall be given special permission by the local governor in accordance with the stipulations of Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2 above.

Article 7. A foreigner passing through Japan shall not sojourn more than 15 days.

A foreigner entering the country and seeking to sojourn for more than 30 days shall apply to the governor of the prefecture in which he has landed or in which he is actually sojourning for permission, in accordance with Form No. 5 appended to the present ordinance, within 10 days after landing.

A foreigner seeking to stay after the expiry of the term of sojourn shall apply to the governor of the prefecture in which he is living or is staying for permission, in accordance with Form 6 appended to the present ordinance, within 10 days before the expiry of the said term.

The permission to sojourn or to extend the term of sojourn shall not exceed one year.

Article 8. A person who in his business quarters a foreigner shall inform the captain of the police station under whose jurisdiction his establishment lies, within 12 hours after taking in the said foreigner, of the following:

1. Name
2. Nationality
3. Residence
4. Age
5. Vocation
6. Place of landing
7. Place at which the foreigner stayed the previous night
8. Place of destination
9. Time of registering

The

=== Page 170 ===
- 4 -

The said notification may be made to a police box of the said station or to a policeman making his rounds.

A foreigner quartered at an establishment shall, on demand of the proprietor, manager or person acting for the same, state the items stipulated in Paragraph 1 or write down the same on a form supplied by the establishment.

Article 9. A foreigner sojourning for longer than 60 days shall notify the captain of the police station under whose jurisdiction lies his place of residence the items contained in Form 7 appended to the present ordinance within 50 days after landing.

A foreigner under the age of 15 shall be exempt from the above provision.

In case any change occurs in the items notified, the said change shall be notified to the police station within 10 days after the date of the said change.

Article 10. The captain of a police station shall compile a register of foreign residents and enter the notified items stated in the preceding article.

A person seeking to look at the register of foreign residents shall pay a fee of 20 sen.

Article 11. A foreigner who has made notification of residence may, by presenting to the police station concerned a photograph of himself taken within the last six months (front view, bust, bareheaded, 4.5 by six centimeters and not pasted on board), obtain a residence certificate.

A foreigner seeking to obtain the said certificate shall pay a fee of 50 sen for each copy.

Article 12. In case a foreigner who has made the notification stipulated in Article 9 but who is unable to obtain a passport, nationality certificate or a certificate equivalent thereto, wishes to travel in Manchukuo or China, the said foreigner shall apply to the captain of the police station under whose jurisdiction lies his place of residence for a travel certificate in accordance with Form 9 appended to the present ordinance.

A travel certificate shall be good for six months from the date of issue.

A foreigner receiving a travel certificate shall pay a fee of ¥20 a copy.

A

=== Page 171 ===
- 5 -

A foreigner in possession of a travel certificate who has secured the visa of a Japanese Ambassador, Minister or consul in Manchukuo or China and who has returned to Japan within the period during which the certificate is good shall be exempt from classification in the first category under Paragraph 1 of Article 2.

Article 13. A foreign seaman temporarily landing in a city, town or village off which his ship is at anchor and returning to the said ship shall be exempt from classification in the first category of Paragraph 1 of Article 2.

Article 14. A foreigner on being questioned by a police officer in regard to items in Paragraph 1 of Article 8, notification under Article 9 or other necessary matters shall answer truthfully.

A foreigner carrying a passport, nationality certificate, seaman's notebook or any equivalent certificate shall present it on demand by a police officer.

Article 15. A foreigner receiving special permission to enter shall pay a fee of ¥[?]0, and a foreigner receiving special permission to pass through shall pay a fee of ¥10.

A foreigner receiving sojourn permission or prolongation of sojourn permission shall pay a fee of ¥10. A national of a country which does not impose a similar fee on a Japanese subject shall be exempt from the said payment.

The two preceding articles shall not apply to a foreigner under the age of 15 or a foreigner entering or passing through because of some natural disaster or other inevitable cause.

Article 16. The fees stipulated in Articles 10, 11 and 12 shall be paid in revenue stamps.

Article 17. A foreigner staying more than 60 days who wishes to leave Japan shall make notification thereof to the captain of the police station under whose jurisdiction lies his place of residence.

A local governor may prohibit the entry or passage of a foreigner violating the stipulation of the preceding paragraph.

Article 18. The local governor may order the deportation of a foreigner falling under any of the following specifications:

1. A foreigner falling under any of the specifications of Paragraph 1 of Article 2.

2.

[Note: The text is faint throughout. In Article 15's first fee, the tens digit before the legible final zero is illegible: ¥[?]0.]

=== Page 172 ===
- 6 -

2. A foreigner using a passport, nationality certificate or equivalent certificate on which appears the name of another person.

3. A foreigner who has obtained the visa of his passport, nationality certificate or equivalent certificate by fraudulent means.

4. A foreigner violating Paragraph 1 of Article 5.

5. A foreigner staying in Japan without obtaining the permission stipulated in Paragraph 2 or Paragraph 3 of Article 7.

Article 19. A foreigner violating Paragraph 2 of Article 5, Paragraphs 1-3 of Article 7, Article 8, Article 9 or Article 14 shall be liable to a fine of not more than ¥50, police detention or a petty fine.

Article 20. A foreigner falling under any of the following specifications shall be liable to imprisonment of not more than three months with or without hard labor or a fine of not more than ¥100:

1. A foreigner violating the deportation order of a local governor.

2. A foreigner falling under the second third and fourth, specifications of Article 18.

Supplementary Rule:

The present ordinance shall take effect as from May 1, 1939. In enforcement of it, the date of notification under Articles 7 and 9 shall be counted from the date of enforcement of the present ordinance as regards foreigners actually residing in Imperial territory.

The January, 1918, Home Office Ordinance No. 1, concerning entry of foreigners, shall be abolished.

[Note: Text in Items 2-5 and Articles 19-20 is faint, but no additional words or figures are illegible.]
