=== Page 622 ===
[Stamps and marks: "AM RECD"; Department of State, Division of Communications and Records clock stamp, JUL 15 32; Division of Far Eastern Affairs, Department of State, JUL 18 1932; "F/HS 894.00/424"; handwritten "894.00" at left; handwritten notes at the bottom margin, partly illegible: "894.00/367", "[illegible]", "/413", "894.00/423"; handwritten "Copy in FE" and initials above the stamp]

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Tokyo, July 1, 1932.

No. 35
Subject: Unrest in Japan.

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.

The Honorable
    The Secretary of State,
        Washington.

Sir:

    From time to time in the past few months the Embassy has reported that there is much dissatisfaction and discontent in Japan with political conditions. There is a feeling that persons in high office are not so much concerned with the welfare of the country as with their own political and [word obscured] material fortunes. The widespread character of this feeling, which is by no means confined to officials, has been touched upon in several despatches, particularly despatches Nos. 512 of February 27, 561 of April 7, 624 of May 20, and 33 of June 30, 1932.

As

=== Page 623 ===
- 2 -

    As illustrating this feeling I think that the following resumé of the remarks made to the Military Attaché by an officer of the Foreign Section of the Metropolitan Police Board will be found interesting. Generally this officer in his customary calls has talked of the weather or similar innocuous subjects, but this time he seemed anxious to speak of the situation as he knew it. His motive is not known. He does not carry great weight as an official but it is thought that his remarks are significant. His statement was approximately as follows:

    "The situation in Japan is very serious. It appears quiet on the surface, but underneath there is great discontent among the people. Wherever a few get together, their brains start to work and they try to solve their difficulties and to see a way out of them. We are continually hearing reports of probable actions on the part of various groups of people. We raid them, take their papers and arrest a few of them and so try to keep down their outbreaks. But when something serious will occur it is very hard to say. It may happen at any time. The young army officers are out of hand; they have their own ideas of what should be done. The whole place is full of malcontents.

    "As for the Cabinet, Viscount Saito is an honest man and there are a few others in the Cabinet who are trying to do their best for the country. But most of them are still the same old politicians, working for themselves and for the good of their parties. Look at the trouble about the Governors of the Prefectures. This man Adachi is not to be depended upon to do anything for the good of his country. He is just an old politician, working out his own political schemes.

    "Many people have been trying to get together and find a man who could lead and form a new party based on honest principles, but such a man is difficult to find and, as far as I know, they have not gone very far with this scheme.

    "Yes, I think it is very possible that there will be some more assassinations. It is very difficult to

prevent

=== Page 624 ===
- 3 -

prevent them with the people in their present mood.

    "The politicians talk about saving money for the Government by having reduced all of the officials' salaries but at the same time they have appointed various political friends to positions that are quite unnecessary, such as, for instance, the parliamentary secretaries to the ministries. These secretaries have nothing to do. The people know these things and it makes them quite angry."

Respectfully yours,

[signature]
Joseph C. Grew.

800-Japan.
ELN:sr

[handwritten marks at lower left: "4", initials, and an "X"]
