=== Page 117 ===
Required

(Department's instruction of May 19, 1939,
File No. 894.4061 Motion Pictures/26)

[stamp: oval date stamp reading "JUL 17 1939", with "RECEIVED" and further stamped text partly obscured, overwritten by illegible handwritten initials/notation]

No. 59

JAPAN MOTION PICTURE LAW

From American Consul General  [signed: C. R. Cameron]
                               C. R. Cameron

Tokyo Consulate General        Date of Completion: June 28, 1939
                                Date of Mailing:    June 30, 1939

Enclosure:
  Translation of Motion
  Picture Law.

File No. 840.6
CRC/yo/ble

Distribution:
  Original and 4 copies to Department;
  1 copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

[Note: right margin carries vertical file-stamp text reading "894.4061 MOTION PICTURES/29", "FILED", and "F/AT"; an oval reception stamp at upper left is partly overwritten by illegible handwriting.]

=== Page 118 ===
- 2 -

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                            Page

Reference......................................................3
Motion Picture Law..............................................3
Regulating Ordinance............................................3
American Films Imported.........................................4
Frozen Royalties Remitted.......................................5
Toho versus Shochiku............................................6
The Struggle For Nikkatsu.......................................6
Imported Supplies................................................7
German Films.....................................................8
Market in Korea and Formosa......................................8
Best Pictures.....................................................8
Japanese Picture Production.......................................9
Sources of Information............................................9a

=== Page 119 ===
- 3 -

Reference

Reference is made to Report No. 51, dated March 23, 1939, from the Tokyo Consulate General, entitled, "Proposed Motion Picture Law of Japan", which submitted the translation of the draft of a Law just presented to the Diet regarding motion pictures; and to the Department's instruction of May 19, 1939 (File No. 894.4061 Motion Pictures/26), requesting a report upon later developments in the premises.

Motion Picture Law

It is advised that the draft of a Law, copy of the translation of which accompanied Report No. 51, was duly passed as Law No. 66, entitled, "Motion Picture Law" ("Eiga-ho"), was promulgated on April 4, 1939, and published in Official Gazette No. 3672, of Wednesday, April 5, 1939. Comparison of the Japanese text of the draft with that of the Law shows that the latter was approved, without alteration, exactly as submitted to the Diet, and the translation submitted with Report No. 51 from this office is, consequently, the translation of the text of the Law approved. However, a careful check of that translation, made by a local translating bureau, has been made in this office and various verbal corrections made. The corrected translation is forwarded herewith as Enclosure No. 1. [marginal note: "1/"]

Regulating Ordinance

The last paragraph of Article II of the Law states:

    "The scope of the motion picture producing
    enterprise and motion picture distributing
    business as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph
    shall be determined by Imperial Ordinance."

Moreover,

=== Page 120 ===
- 4 -

Moreover, the first of the supplementary rules at the end of the Law provides:

    "The date for the enforcement of the
    present law shall be determined by Imperial
    Ordinance."

The draft of the above-mentioned Ordinance has not yet been completed, although this office has been informed that it is now expected that the Ordinance will be put in final form and promulgated in October or November, 1939 (Source No. 1). The American motion picture representatives here are as yet wholly uninformed as to the precise terms of the Ordinance being drawn up but fully expect that their activities as distributors will be considerably limited by its terms. They do not, however, now anticipate that anything in the nature of a government monopoly will be established in Japan (Source No. 2).

American Films Imported

Reference is made to Reports No. 34 from this office entitled, "Motion Pictures in Japan", of October 6, 1938, and No. 36 of November 20, 1938, entitled, "Permission to Import American Motion Pictures". It will be recalled that in the agreement dated August 10, 1938, but put in effect only late in September, entered into by the Finance Ministry with the Tokyo representatives of American motion picture companies, the Ministry gave permission to such representatives to import by the end of 1938, $30,000 worth of motion picture films at 1-1/2¢ per running foot, or about 2,000,000 running feet of film. This would provide for about 200 films, or more if the films were short. However, only about 120 films have been imported so far, leaving 80 or more films still to be imported under the agreement. News reels are not included in the

=== Page 121 ===
- 5 -

the 2,000,000 running feet, but all other exposed films, both features and shorts, are so included. It will be recalled that film importations into Japan from the United States aggregated 273 in 1936, 239 in 1937, and a little over 100 in 1938. Importations during 1937 were not normal, due to the prohibition of film imports during the latter part of that year, while those for 1938 were wholly abnormal, also due to prohibition of imports. Accordingly, 250 films per annum may be taken as the minimum annual importation from the United States under normal conditions. Many of the films whose importation was contemplated were brought to Yokohama, but permits for their actual importation through the custom house have been delayed by the authorities so as to reduce the number as yet brought into Japan since September, 1938, to the figure given above (Source No. 2).

Frozen Royalties Remitted

As was explained in Report No. 34 cited above, from 60 to 65 percent of the gross income is considered by the American distributing companies in Japan as royalty and remitted to the producing companies in the United States. The other 35 percent or 40 percent remains in Japan to pay expenses of distributing and provide profit for the local distributing organizations. The same agreement of the Finance Ministry mentioned above included permission to remit, also by the end of 1938, royalties frozen in Japan by exchange restrictions amounting to ¥3,000,000. The ¥3,000,000 was duly remitted but during the current calendar year, no remittance permits have been received and, in the meantime, royalties frozen here have reached a total of well over ¥2,000,000. Permission for the remission

=== Page 122 ===
- 6 -

remission of these funds will be shortly taken up with the Finance Ministry. In the meantime, permits are being regularly given as films are imported, for the remission of their customs value reckoned at 1-1/2¢ per running foot, i.e., from $120 to $180 per feature film, which vary from 8,000 to 10,000 feet in length (Source No. 2).

Toho versus Shochiku

Report No. 34, cited above, comments upon the struggle for the control of the cinema industry in Japan between the two powerful groups referred to as the Toho group led by the Toho Eiga Kabushiki Kaisha (Toho Motion Picture Company, Ltd.), and the Shochiku group led by the Shochiku Kabushiki Kaisha (Shochiku Company, Ltd.). The Toho group of Osaka and Kobe has operated in active opposition to the Shochiku group only since 1936. The strength and enterprise of Toho, which includes the Takarazuka Girls' Revue, has been shown during the past year by the sending of Takarazuka companies to tour the territories of Japan's European anti-Comintern allies, namely, Germany, Italy, and Poland, and by the recent dispatch of a company of forty players and twenty managers and assistants to exhibit in the principal American cities, including the San Francisco and New York fairs. (See Report No. 50 from this office entitled, "Japanese Theatrical Company to Tour the United States", dated March 23, 1939).

The Struggle For Nikkatsu

When Report No. 34 was written in October, 1938, the oldest motion picture company in Japan, the Nippon Katsudo

=== Page 123 ===
-7-

Katsudo Shashin Kabushiki Kaisha (Nippon Motion Picture Company, Ltd.), usually referred to as the "Nikkatsu", was listed as one of the members of the Shochiku group, although rather vaguely connected thereto. Nikkatsu has three flourishing moving picture producing studios with over 300 actors, and in 1937 produced 107 films, almost one-fifth of the total Japanese production. Moreover, Nikkatsu controlled at that time 526 motion picture theaters in Japan, or about one-sixth of the total. Recently a struggle between Toho and Shochiku has taken place for the control of Nikkatsu. On April 27, 1939, Nikkatsu old stock was quoted on the market at ¥38.78. On June 24, 1939, the price had zoomed to ¥77.00. On June 26, 1939, it was quoted at ¥74.40. The slump during the last two days might be interpreted to mean either that Toho has obtained control and is no longer bulling the market, or that Toho has temporarily lost interest in the matter. It is rumored in moving picture circles, however, that Toho has succeeded in buying 52 percent of Nikkatsu stock. (Daily Press and Source No. 2).

Imported Supplies

Few moving picture supplies are now imported from abroad. Some of the American distributors have husbanded a small quantity of Eastman imported film for making one positive of each negative imported. This Eastman positive is of a superior grade and is released in first-run houses, usually in Tokyo, the copies for distribution in the interior being made from locally produced film. The latter, it is said, can be projected only about half as many times as the Eastman film before

=== Page 124 ===
- 8 -

before becoming worn and unserviceable.

It is rumored that a certain amount of Agfa, both 35- and 16-centimeter raw film for moving picture cameras, has recently been imported and is being distributed in Kyoto. It may have been brought in from "Manchukuo" (Source No. 2).

German Films

It has long been expected that German moving picture films brought into "Manchukuo" in accordance with the German-"Manchukuo" Trade Agreement, would enter the Japanese market, but this has not occurred to date. Indeed a recent visitor to "Manchukuo" reports that no German exposed films have as yet been brought into "Manchukuo" under the Trade Agreement (Source No. 2).

Market in Korea and Formosa

As reported by a moving picture representative who has recently visited the outlying portions of the Japanese Empire, the moving picture market in Korea at present depends almost entirely upon the Japanese residents, 600,000 in number, but is expected to increase gradually as the Koreans become familiar with the Japanese language and improve their economic position. In Formosa, conditions are more favorable. There are a score of moving picture theaters in Taihoku, Taichu, Tainan, Takao, and some other large cities, 30 percent of the attendance being native Formosans. The returns from American films exhibited in Formosa have increased many times during the past few years (Source No. 2).

Best Pictures

The foreign pictures producing the most revenue in
Japan

=== Page 125 ===
- 9 -

Japan during the past year have been "Hurricane" and "Test Pilot". Musical pictures like "Mad About Music" and "The Great Waltz" were immensely popular in certain circles, but apparently the scenes of aviation and typhoons in the two leading pictures have been a greater attraction to the mass of Japanese people. Typhoons, with their attendant destruction, are all too well known to the Japanese people and the China Incident has aroused a tremendous interest in aviation. A special showing of "Test Pilot" was given in Tokyo for Army officers at the request of the latter.

Japanese Picture Production

Information has just been received regarding the production of Japanese pictures. Up to the middle of June, 1939, 253 pictures have been produced. This production for approximately half of 1939 may be compared with the following figures (Source No. 2):

    Year          Japanese
    Produced      Pictures

    1935            470
    1936            546
    1937            583
    1938            563


Enclosure:
  Translation of Motion
  Picture Law.

File No. 840.6
CRC/yo/ble

[stamp, boxed: "A true copy of the signed original. [illegible initials]"]

Distribution:
  Original and 4 copies to Department;
  1 copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

[Note: A boxed certification stamp at lower left bears illegible handwritten initials.]

=== Page 126 ===
- 9a -

Confidential

Confidential information is to the effect that in view of the increasing lack of foreign exchange for the importation of necessities, American film importations might be reduced even more were it not for several factors:

    (1) The responsible authorities are eager to stimulate the belief carefully fostered among the Japanese people by a controlled press and radio that in spite of various limitations and privations due to the extended hostilities in China, conditions in Japan are not far from normal.

    (2) The authorities consider that amusement is quite essential to maintain the morale of the people and to further the ends aimed at by the intensive propaganda campaign now under way, referred to as the "spiritual mobilization". Notwithstanding the language difficulty, which is overcome by Japanese inscribed on the film, American motion pictures continue to be much more popular with the people of Japan than any other, including their own.

    (3) The Japanese producing companies depend largely upon foreign films for ideas for their own productions, and frequently adopt from them plots and situations without much change. During the period of total exclusion of foreign feature films--September, 1937, to September, 1938--the Japanese producing studios were greatly handicapped.

    (4) The authorities have a wholesome respect for the propaganda capacity of the American motion picture
industry,
=== Page 127 ===
- 9b -

industry, bearing in mind the recent "Confessions of a Nazi Spy" and similar films. None of these films has, of course, been exhibited in Japan, but the authorities are perfectly aware of the situation and desire, by careful treatment of the American companies, to retain the status of Japan as a valuable market for American films, and so to prevent the production of any anti-Japanese pictures (Source No. 2).

=== Page 128 ===
- 9c -

Confidential

Sources of Information

(1) Telephone conversation by a representative of this office with the Film Inspection Section of the Home Ministry (Naimusho).

(2) Interviews with representatives in Tokyo of American moving picture firms.

(3) Interview with the Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai, or Society for International Cultural Relations, publishers of the annual "Cinema Year Book of Japan".

(4) Interview with the publishers of the Cinema Junpo (local cinema review published at ten-day intervals).

=== Page 129 ===
[Enclosure No. 1 to Report No. 59 from the Tokyo Consulate General on the subject, "Japan Motion Picture Law", dated June 28, 1939.]

TRANSLATION OF LAW NO. 66, ENTITLED "MOTION PICTURE LAW" (EIGA-HO), APPROVED BY THE DIET AND PROMULGATED ON APRIL 4, 1939, AND PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL GAZETTE (KAMPO), EDITION NO. 3672 OF WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1939. TRANSLATION WAS MADE BY A LOCAL TRANSLATING BUREAU AND CORRECTED IN THIS CONSULATE GENERAL.

MOTION PICTURE LAW

Article 1.- The present law shall have for its aim the hastening of the qualitative improvement of motion pictures and the promotion of the development on a sound basis of the motion picture enterprises, with a view to contributing toward the progress of the national culture.

Article 2.- Persons who are about to be engaged in the enterprise of producing motion pictures or in the business of distributing motion pictures shall obtain the permission of the competent Minister of State in accordance with the provisions of decree.

The scope of the motion picture producing enterprise and motion picture distributing business as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph shall be determined by Imperial ordinance.

Article 3.- Persons who have succeeded to the enterprise or business by inheritance when the persons who had obtained the permission as mentioned in Paragraph 1 of the foregoing article died, shall be regarded as persons who have obtained the permission as mentioned in the said paragraph.

Article 4.- When persons who are engaged in the enterprise of producing motion pictures with the permission as mentioned in Paragraph 1 of Article 2 (to be referred to merely as motion picture producers hereinafter) or persons who are engaged in the business of distributing motion pictures with the permission as mentioned in the said paragraph (to be referred to merely as motion picture distributors hereinafter) have violated the present law or orders issued on the basis of the present law or dispositions made on the basis of the said orders, or have taken such action in regard to their enterprise or business as is injurious to public interests, the competent Minister of State may suspend their enterprise or business or put restrictions thereon or cancel the permission granted to them.

Article 5.- When persons are about to be engaged in those kinds of works which are designated by the competent Minister of State in regard to the production of motion pictures by the motion picture producers, they shall be registered in accordance with the pro-
visions

=== Page 130 ===
-2-

visions of decree. However, an exception shall be made in regard to persons less than 14 years old.

Article 6.- When persons who have obtained registration in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing article have taken such action as debases themselves or are recognized to be unfit for being engaged in those kinds of works falling under the provisions of the said article, the competent Minister of State may suspend their work or cancel the registration.

Article 7.- The motion picture producers shall not engage persons who are not registered in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 in those kinds of works falling under the provisions of the said article, except in cases which are designated by decree. This rule shall hold good also in regard to persons who have their works suspended in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing article.

Article 8.- The administrative government offices may, when such measures are recognized to be necessary from the standpoint of the prevention of injury to public health or the protection of public interests, put restrictions on the motion picture producers in regard to the engagement of persons in the actual work on the production of motion pictures and other matters concerning the production of motion pictures, in accordance with the provisions of decree.

Article 9.- When motion picture producers are about to produce those kinds of motion pictures which are designated by the competent Minister of State, they shall report to the competent Minister of State those matters which are designated by decree prior to the commencement of photographing. When principal parts of the matters reported have been changed, a report to the effect shall be presented to the competent Minister of State.

The competent Minister of State may, when such measures are recognized to be necessary from the standpoint of public peace and order or of public morals, order a change in the matters which have been reported in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph.

Article 10.- The competent Minister of State may make special recommendation in regard to those motion pictures which are recognized to be particularly capable of contributing toward the progress of the national culture.

Article 11.- The competent Minister of State may designate such motion pictures as are recognized to require special preservation from the standpoint of public interests and order the owners of the motion pictures to present them temporarily for the purpose
of

=== Page 131 ===
-3-

of reproduction.

Article 12.- The competent Minister of State may in case of necessity put restrictions on the motion picture distributors in regard to the kinds and quantities concerning the distribution of foreign-made motion pictures in accordance with the provisions of decree.

Article 13.- Motion pictures shall be subject to the censorship of the administrative government offices in accordance with the provisions of decree and no one of them shall be exported to foreign countries unless it has passed the official inspection.

The competent Minister of State may restrict or ban the exportation of motion pictures which have passed the official inspection as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph when special circumstances such as require the restriction or ban exist.

Article 14.- No motion picture shall be put on the screen to be shown to the public unless it has been placed under the censorship of the administrative government offices in accordance with the provisions of decree and passed the official inspection.

The provisions of the second paragraph of the foregoing article shall be applied mutatis mutandis in the case of the foregoing paragraph.

Article 15.- The competent Minister of State may by order cause those persons who are engaged in the business of showing motion pictures to the public to show specified kinds of motion pictures which are considered as beneficial from the standpoint of the national education.

The administrative government offices may deliver motion pictures which are required for enlightenment and propaganda to specified persons who are engaged in the business of showing motion pictures to the public in accordance with the provisions of decree and cause them to show the motion pictures within a specified period of time.

Article 16.- The competent Minister of State may, when he recognizes such measures to be necessary, put restrictions on persons who are engaged in the business of showing motion pictures, in regard to the kinds and quantities concerning the showing of foreign-made motion pictures in accordance with the provisions of decree.

Article 17.- The administrative government offices may, when such measures are recognized to be necessary for the prevention of public injury or from the standpoint of public health, education or the protection of public interests, put restrictions on persons who are
engaged

=== Page 132 ===
-4-

engaged in the business of showing motion pictures to the public or other persons who show motion pictures in regard to the performance hours, screening method, scope of audience and other matters concerning the putting of motion pictures on the screen in accordance with the provisions of decree.

Article 18.- The competent Minister of State may, when such measures are recognized to be especially required from the standpoint of public interests, issue orders to the motion picture producers, motion picture distributors or persons who are engaged in the business of showing motion pictures to the public in regard to necessary matters concerning the restriction of the kinds or quantities of the motion pictures to be produced, the adjustment of the distribution of motion pictures, the improvement of facilities and equipments or the prevention of unjust competition.

Article 19.- A Motion Picture Commission shall be created for the purpose of extending counsel to the competent Minister of State in regard to important matters concerning the enforcement of the present law.

The regulations governing the Motion Picture Commission shall be determined by Imperial Ordinance.

Article 20.- The administrative government offices may cause competent government officials to inspect the places where motion pictures are produced or screened. In such case, the competent government officials shall carry with them identification cards.

The administrative government offices may order the motion picture producers, motion picture distributors or persons who are engaged in the business of showing motion pictures to the public to submit reports in regard to matters concerning their enterprise or business.

Article 21.- Persons who have been engaged in the enterprise of producing motion pictures or in the business of distributing motion pictures without obtaining the permission as coming under the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 2 shall be condemned to a prison term not exceeding six months or punished with a fine not exceeding ¥2,000.

Article 22.- Persons who fall under one of the various clauses as given hereunder shall be punished with a fine not exceeding ¥500:

1. Persons who have violated the suspension or restriction as based on the provisions of Article 4.
2.

=== Page 133 ===
-5-

2. Persons who have violated the restriction as based on the provisions of Article 8, Article 12, Article 16 or Article 17.

3. Persons who have exported or attempted to export motion pictures in violation of the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 13 or in violation of the restriction or ban as based on the provisions of Paragraph 2 of the said article.

4. Persons who have violated the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 14 or violated the restriction or ban as based on the provisions of Paragraph 2 of the said article.

5. Persons who have violated the order as based on the provisions of Article 15 or Article 18.

6. Persons who have refused, obstructed or evaded the inspection as based on the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 20 or who have failed to make the report as based on the provisions of Paragraph 2 of the said article or made a false statement.

Article 23.- Persons who come under one of the various clauses as given hereunder shall be punished with a fine or minor fine not exceeding ¥100:

1. Persons who have been engaged by way of profession in the kinds of works which come under the provisions of Article 5 without obtaining registration in accordance with the provisions of the said article.

2. Persons who have violated the suspension as based on the provisions of Article 6.

3. Persons who have violated the provisions of Article 7.

4. Persons who have commenced photographing for the production of motion pictures without making the report as based on the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 9.

5. Persons who have violated the order as based on the provisions of Article 11.

Article 24.- Persons who are engaged in the enterprise of producing motion pictures or in the business of distributing motion pictures or showing motion pictures to the public or persons who show motion pictures shall not, when their representatives, heads of their families, members of their families, persons who live together with them, their employees or other
workers

=== Page 134 ===
-6-

workers have taken such actions as violate the provisions of Article 21, Clauses 1 to 5 or the latter part of Clause 6 of Article 22, or Clauses 3 to 5 of the foregoing article in regard to their enterprise or business, escape punishment on the ground that the actions were not taken under their own instructions.

Article 25.- The penal regulations as contained in Article 21, Clauses 1 to 5 and the latter part of Clause 6 of Article 22 as well as Clauses 3 to 5 of Article 23 shall be applied, in the case of juridical persons to the directors, managers or other officials who execute the business of the juridical persons, and in the case of minors or incompetent persons to their legal representatives. However, an exception shall be made in regard to those minors who are as capable as adults in regard to business.

Article 26.- In the case of the foregoing two articles, no condemnation to prison terms shall be made.

Supplementary Rules.

The date for the enforcement of the present law shall be determined by Imperial Ordinance.

Persons who are actually engaged in the enterprise of producing motion pictures or in the business of distributing motion pictures as provided in Article 2, or who have succeeded to the enterprise or business at the time of the enforcement of the present law, may continue to be engaged in the enterprise or business for only one year from the day of the enforcement of the present law in spite of the provision of the first paragraph of the said article.

Persons as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph may continue to be engaged in the enterprise of producing motion pictures or in the business of distributing motion pictures until the day when decision on the permission or non-permission is taken in case they have applied for the permission as mentioned in Paragraph 1 of Article 2 within the period as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph.

Persons who conduct the enterprise or business in accordance with the provisions of the two previous paragraphs shall be regarded as having obtained the permission as mentioned in Paragraph 1 of Article 2.

Persons who are actually engaged in those kinds of works as coming under the provisions of Article 5 by way of profession at the time of the enforcement of the present law, may continue to be engaged in
the

=== Page 135 ===
-7-

the said works as profession without obtaining the registration as mentioned in the said article only for a period of six months from the day of the enforcement of the present law.

The provisions of Paragraph 4 shall be applied mutatis mutandis in the case of the foregoing paragraph.
