=== Page 16 ===
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1484 of August 18, 1943, from George Atcheson, Jr., American Chargé d'Affaires a.i. in Chungking, China, to the Department on the subject of The Formosan Revolutionists League.

American Embassy
Chungking, China, August 17, 1943.

MEMORANDUM

Subject: The Formosan Revolutionists League.

A. History:

[Handwritten Chinese annotations appear in parentheses throughout pages 16–19.]

The Formosan Revolutionists League (台灣革命同盟會) is stated to be a union of all Formosan revolutionary societies; the history of these societies is complex and, in part because of their secret nature, difficult to ascertain. It is asserted by some Formosans that there have been revolutionary societies in Taiwan since its cession to Japan in 1895. However, the earliest of such societies in regard to which first-hand information appears to be available was the Taiwan Reform Society (台灣革新會). According to Chang Pang-chieh (張邦傑), a Formosan Chinese who states that he was one of its members, it was a secret terrorist revolutionary group which was formed in 1915 and continued in existence until 1926, when the Formosan Cultural Association (台灣文化協會) was formed. It is stated that the Association was really revolutionary in character although it was registered with the Japanese authorities and had as its ostensible purpose the spreading of Asiatic culture. Members of the Formosan Cultural Association evidently maintained an active interest in political developments in China, for Mr. Chang states that the split between the radical and conservative elements within the Kuomintang resulted in a split in the Association, the more conservative elements accusing it of having become Communist and leaving it in 1927 to form the People's Party (民衆黨). Both the Formosan Cultural Association and the People's Party were suppressed by the Japanese authorities; according to one account this suppression occurred in 1932, following the Mukden incident and the outbreak of Sino-Japanese hostilities at Shanghai. A number of Formosans thereupon went to Amoy, Mr. Chang states, where during 1932 they founded the Anti-Japanese League (反日同盟會); this organization split up over the 19th Route Army's Fukien revolt of 1933, which closely concerned Formosan Chinese because of Fukien's being their original home. Another attempt to gain unity was made in 1935 when various Formosan revolutionary elements united to form the Formosan Revolutionary Party (台灣革命黨), but a number of groups soon split off from this new party.

The present Formosan Revolutionists League was formed in 1941; apparently it is an association of groups rather than an [struck-through text illegible] into a single party (although according to one report the constituent parties have, in theory, at least, been dissolved).

B. Composition:

The following are the constituent parts of the Formosan Revolutionists League:

(1)

[Note: The struck-through word or phrase after “rather than an” is illegible.]

=== Page 17 ===
- 2 -

(1) The Formosan Revolutionary Party (referred to above), the Chairman of which is Chang Pang-chieh (張邦傑), a graduate of Waseda University (1921) and former resident of Takao, Taiwan. Mr. Chang describes his party as rightist; he claims, incidentally, to have been Vice-Commander of a military unit, composed of Formosan Chinese, which supported the Central Government against the 19th Route Army during the leftist 1933 Fukien revolt.

(2) The Formosan Independence Revolutionary Party (台灣獨立革命黨), the Chairman of which is Li Yu-pang (李友邦). This party is composed of members of the Formosan Revolutionary Volunteers Corps (台灣革命義勇隊). According to Chang Pang-chieh, who holds a commission from the Military Affairs Commission as an adviser to the Corps, it is composed of about 100 members and was derived from a similar corps composed principally of Koreans. It is subject to the direction of the Political Affairs Department of the Military Affairs Commission for which it is now carrying on propaganda work in Fukien. Li Yu-pang (who is also leader of the Corps) is a graduate of the second class of the Whampoa Military Academy (he was, incidentally, imprisoned by Chiang Kai-shek from 1927-1935 as a Communist).

(3) The Formosan National Revolutionary Party (台灣國民革命黨). The Chairman of the party, K'o Tai-shan (柯台山), is quoted as claiming for it a membership of 5,000.

(4) The Formosan People's Revolutionary Federation (台灣民族革命總同盟) is reported to have been formed in Hong Kong in 1940. The Chairman of this group, which may number several hundreds, is Hsieh Nan-kuang (謝南光), who in 1941 became Chief of the Second (Foreign Affairs) Section of the Fukien Provincial Government. According to well-informed sources he is suspected of being either pro-Japanese or a Japanese agent. (Several persons connected with the League state that he has successively held himself out to be in favor of the Kuomintang, the Communist Party, Wang Ching-wei and, again, the Kuomintang; that when Wang Ching-wei was associated with the leftist regime at Hankow, Hsieh was affiliated with his clique, which was known as the 改組派, and that he was arrested at Amoy in 1936 because of connection with the Southwest Revolt of that year but that he was subsequently released as a result of intervention by the Japanese consular authorities.)

(5) Formosan Youth Revolutionary Party (台灣青年革命黨), the Chairman of which is one Ch'en Yu-ch'in (陳友欽). The party's headquarters are at Lungki (龍溪), near Amoy, in Fukien; it was organized just after the outbreak of Sino-Japanese hostilities and is claimed to have about 5,000 members.

(6) Formosa Party Headquarters (台灣黨部). This unit of the Chinese Kuomintang was organized in 1941. The director, Wong Chun-ming (黃俊明), is an elderly adherent of Chang Pang-chieh (Director of the Formosan Revolutionists League), was formerly the latter's representative in Hong Kong and was recommended by him for his present position.

C.

=== Page 18 ===
- 3 -

C. Organization and Membership:

The governing body of the Formosan Revolutionists League is stated to be a Central Executive Board, the Chairman of which is also the Chairman of the League. Under him are the following bureaus:

1. General Affairs (總務處), directed by Tsai Kuo-hun (蔡國魂).
2. Organization Bureau (組織處), directed by Lu Pei-hsiung (呂伯雄).
3. Executive Bureau (行動處), directed by Ch'en Tse-sheng (陳重生).
4. Secretarial Bureau (秘書處), Chen Yu-ch'in (陳友欽).
5. Propaganda Bureau (宣傳處), directed by Wu Yu-yung (吳有容).
6. Secret Bureau (機要處), directed by Chuang Wen-tsan (莊文燦).

The Chairman of the League states that subject to the joint control of the Organization and Executive Bureaus are Special Divisions (特別支部) in Fukien and at Canton and Shanghai, and ordinary divisions (支部) in Taihoku (台北), Sinjigu (新竹), Taiju (台東), Tainan (台南), Takao (大高), Taido (台東), Karenko (花蓮), the Pescadores and Tokyo; and that under each such division there are several sub-divisions.

Mr. Chang asserts that the League has about 140,000 members of whom about 1,000 are in unoccupied China and about 2,000 are with the Japanese armed forces in the South Pacific and elsewhere as soldiers, interpreters and mechanics. Most of the remainder of the membership is stated to be among persons residing in Formosa and to comprise peasants, laborers, seamen, professional men, students and government employees. The Chairman of the League claims also to have close personal relations with the tribal chieftan Kamo of Karenkom, King Kayuma of Hinan and the district chief Banabitze of Manchuli (滿州里), Takao.

D. Aims and Activities of the Formosan Revolutionists League:

The declared aims of the Formosan Revolutionists League include the following:

(1) The building of an army of Formosans to participate in China's war of resistance.

(2) The establishment of a provincial government for Taiwan (similar to provincial governments maintained for occupied provinces of the mainland).

(3) The return of Formosa to China.

The three principal activities of the League are propaganda, espionage and terrorism. Its propaganda is directed not only to Formosans against the Japanese (in propaganda leaflets and radio broadcasts) but also to China and foreign countries which may have a voice with respect to the disposition to be made of [illegible] at the conclusion of the present war. (There is attached as an

example

[Note: The word after “made of” near the foot of the page is obscured by ink.]

=== Page 19 ===
- 4 -

example of the League's propaganda a copy of the text, in English translation, of a declaration of June 17, 1943, issued by it on the occasion of the forty-eighth anniversary of the cession of Taiwan to Japan. There is also attached a translation of a broadcast made on that date, at the invitation of the League, by Wu Te-chen, Secretary General of the Central Executive Committee of the Kuomintang.) Its espionage activities are carried out chiefly on behalf of the Chinese National Government; it claims to have furnished maps used by the Chinese Air Force when it bombed Formosa and to have prepared and made available several hundred intelligence reports, principally with regard to Formosa. A large proportion of these reports were prepared by the League's Taishan Research Office (台山研究室). Its recent terrorist acts are stated to have been confined to the throwing of bombs or hand-grenades into gatherings of Japanese at Amoy, although it is asserted that the League or its member organizations have in the past been responsible for strikes and acts of violence in Formosa.

E. Relationship of the Formosan Revolutionists League to the Kuomintang and the Chinese National Government, and its Desire for American Aid:

The Chairman of the League states that, with regard to the Kuomintang, he is directly responsible to its Tsungts'ai (Leader), Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. He also states that heretofore the League has been supported chiefly by overseas Chinese; this support is now cut off and the League is in financial difficulties. He states that the Standing Committee of the Central Executive Committee of the Kuomintang has agreed to contribute financially to the support of the League but that the amount it will contribute has not yet been decided.

The League has been handicapped, in its espionage work, by lack of funds and of proper equipment, such as radio sets. Mr. Chang states that such funds and equipment could be obtained from the Chinese Government only were he to put the League's espionage organization under the control of Tai Li (戴笠), the head of the Government's secret police. This he is unwilling to do, as the League wishes to preserve as much independence of action as possible.

The Chairman of the League has several times expressed a desire to furnish to the United States Government facilities and personnel for espionage work, piloting of naval vessels and so forth in return for financial support and communications equipment.

F. An Evaluation of the League and of Its Personnel:

The League, it will be observed, is composed of dissimilar and, to a degree, antagonistic elements. It is obvious from conversation with its chairman that he expects Taiwan to be

restored

=== Page 20 ===
- 5 -

restored to China at the conclusion of the present war and that he hopes to become Chairman of a Taiwan Provincial Government. Doubtless he and many other members of the League are bound together by similar expectations and hopes as well as by dislike of the Japanese and a sense of racial unity with each other and with Chinese on the mainland. However there is a long history of disunity among Formosan groups and of suspicion between conservative Formosans like Chang Pang-chieh and others whom they consider radical or of doubtful loyalty. This disunity and suspicion may be expected to continue.

Certain elements in the League are interested in trade between Japanese and Chinese-controlled areas or in preserving property interests in both, and some of these and other elements within the League are quite reliably stated to be doing espionage and other work for both the Japanese and the Chinese. Responsible members of the League admit that Chiang Kai-shek puts less than full confidence in the League's intelligence reports; probably the Generalissimo is well-advised to do so.

Doubtless Chairman Chang Pang-chieh is genuinely anti-Japanese and in certain respects is frank. He displays, however, evidences of naivete in judgment and of a disregard for the statistical aspects of truth; one instance of each may suffice: (1) he has had communication with Chiang Kai-shek for almost two years concerning the raising and financing of an armed force to be composed of Formosans (one of the declared aims of the League). When asked in private conversation who would train the force he replied that no training would be required as the members would be drawn from Formosans in the Japanese armed forces who would "come over" at the appropriate time. (2) He states that the League has about 140,000 members, whereas according to an informed Chinese official source the League has at most only a few thousand members. (Some other leading members of the League, such as Hsieh Nan-kuang, give an impression of being even less trustworthy than Chang Pang-chieh.)

According to General Wang Peng-sheng, an advisor on Japanese affairs to Chiang Kai-shek, the League in China is now somewhat cut off from the persons affiliated with it who reside in Formosa and has relatively little influence at the present time, although its influence may become considerable when Taiwan becomes a scene of hostilities or when Japanese control there relaxes.

Edward E. Rice.
