=== Page 487 ===
118
[Handwritten at top right: return to FE]
[Stamped at top right: 36]
[Handwritten at top right, below stamp: DC/R / File]
[Department of State oval stamp: DEPARTMENT OF STATE / RECEIVED / OCT 14 1948 / DIVISION OF / COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS]

(COPY)

Memorandum                                        5 February 1946

To:   Mr. J. C. Vincent
From: O. Lattimore
Subject: Recent Observations in Japan and China.

The following notes are based on impressions formed while I was with Ambassador Pauley's Reparations Mission, and I have jotted them down for your possible interest because they have nothing to do with the problem of reparations, but may have some bearing on overall trends in Asia.

1.  Second Phase in Japan.

The first phase of occupation in Japan has been ably carried out by General MacArthur and his staff. The Japanese are disarmed. There is no military danger latent in Japan. This first phase may be concisely described as the process of making the Japanese pow[er?]-less to do what we don't want them to do.

A second phase now opens, presenting the problem of how to make the Japanese do what we do want them to do. In this phase, the Japanese have considerable resources of resistance, evasion, and even political and psychological counterattack.

The essential fabric of the old structure of power and rule in Japan remains intact. Those who enjoyed power and rule will maneuver tenaciously to avoid letting their privileges pass into other hands. It is true that they are now the ruling class of a defeated and much weaker country; but within that country their relative power, far from being diminished, is greater than it ever was. Therefore it is logical for them to think in terms of rebuilding, from the still intact foundations, as much as they can of the shaken super-structure, maintaining and reaffirming as far as possible the old proportions and relative values.

For America, and for the United Nations, the over-all problem of the second phase is now to encourage the remaking of Japan into a country in which there is a reasonable prospect of evolving an economic order of free enterprise, to replace the old highly cartelized economy, and a political order of representative democracy. And the problem is not only to initiate free enterprise and political democracy, but to make sure that they have as much survival value as possible.

Directives

[Handwritten in right margin: 894.00/2-546]
[Stamped in right margin: FILED]
[Stamped in right margin: OCT 14 1948]
[Partial circular stamp in right margin: DEPARTMENT OF STATE / OCT 14 1948 / DIVISION OF / COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS]
[Note: Lower half of page has faint ribbon; a Department of State receipt stamp partially overlaps the right margin of the final paragraph, but the text remains readable. In the second paragraph under section 1, "pow[er?]-less" has a dark correction/strike between "pow" and the hyphen.]

=== Page 488 ===
119
-2-

Directives aimed at bringing about the desired changes will necessarily bear unequally on different sections of the population. To some they will mean the curtailing of old special advantages. To others they will mean the opening of new opportunities. Those who are hurt will cry out; but will those who are benefited, or potentially benefited, rejoice audibly? Not necessarily. Long repression has left many people politically timid. Even though a SCAP ordinance may be welcomed by them, they will, in their present mood, hesitate to take up promptly the advantages offered to them. The most prevalent fears which inhibit them are: How far will SCAP eventually go with the directives it is issuing, and how long will SCAP stay in Japan? If SCAP does not go far enough, before leaving, or if SCAP leaves too soon, they fear that the old order may resume full sway in Japan and take revenge on those who acted too hastily on what seemed to be the implications or suggestions of the SCAP directives.

The logical approach would appear to be to issue directives which, when they necessarily curtail the interests of a group capable of vocal protest and political evasion or resistance, also elicit active enthusiasm and support, instead of mere passive wait-and-see assent, from some other group. If a directive opens up unmistakeable opportunities to a new group interest, that group is likely to feel the need to organize politically in order to protect and extend its newly acquired interest. Only on some such basis as this can we expect a healthy political life to develop in Japan. Until then political "reform" parties are likely to represent little more than pious formulae. A workable democratic system requires competitive group interests represented by competing parties and competitive programs.

2.  The Meiji Rescript on Education.

The following is not intended as criticism of General MacArthur's program. He has an excellent staff section working on the problems of education. I believe, however, that it would be to the general good if the Department of State were independently to advise action on these problems.

The Meiji Rescript on Education has been as much a fountainhead of authoritarianism in Japan as the privileged position of the Army and Navy. Even if the present high degree of centralization in Japanese education were to be amended by measures of decentralization (and I myself do not believe decentralization to be of primary importance) Japanese education will remain vulnerable to authoritarian thought-control unless the Rescript on education is repealed.

The

=== Page 489 ===
120
-3-

The initiative in repealing the Rescript on education should come, and come openly, from American policy. Otherwise there is the danger either that a Japanese-worded repeal would not clearly enough condemn use of the imperial aura to justify authoritarian thought-control, or that the rank and file of teachers and professors would not get up the courage to teach and practice freedom of thought in education. [Marginal mark: penciled letter "k" or checkmark in right margin]

3.  Some Brief Notes on China.

In foreseeing the end of the war in Asia and the Pacific the Japanese out-guessed us in one important respect. We undertook great preparations to make coastal China a major theater of military action in the final phase of the war. The Japanese, knowing that they would probably succeed in ending the war by a relatively dignified surrender, concentrated on making China a major theater of future, post-war political operations.

The Japanese won, to the following extent:

They kept up production, especially in the Shanghai area, enough to prevent critical industrial unemployment. They managed to keep up relatively good distribution of goods -- better than in Free China. They enforced a relatively efficient control of prices.

When surrender came -- as a result of negotiations in distant Japan, not of visible defeat in the field in China -- the Chinese Government victory bandwagon rolled into Shanghai, Peiping, and Tientsin, with an overflowing load of Kuomintang party stalwarts. Industrial production ceased. Distribution was paralyzed. The Party stalwarts assembled the Chambers of Commerce and assessed them for cash levies. Then they turned the merchants loose on the public, with permission to get their money back.

Result: The high-sounding words "Victory" and "Liberation" have acquired, in Shanghai and elsewhere, the connotations of stagnant production, unemployment, skyrocketing prices, and new taxes and impositions. These connotations are derogatory to the National Government and to the Americans as the most conspicuous Allies of the National Government.

4.  A New Crisis in Inner Mongolia.

In Peiping, I had a long conversation with Teh Wang, who was at one time the most important Mongol nationalist leader in Inner Mongolia. Later he was made conspicuous

as

=== Page 490 ===
121
-4-

as the most important figurehead of Japanese control of the Mongols of Inner Mongolia. He has now been listed by the Chinese Communists as a war criminal -- a kind of Pétain.

It is my belief, however, that Teh Wang was never a willing collaborator of the Japanese. He was always on good terms with Chiang Kai-shek. The failure, in the 1930's, to set up an Inner Mongolian autonomy that could serve as a back-fire against Japanese propaganda is attributable primarily to the inability of Chiang Kai-shek to control the Chinese provincial generals who had a vested interest in exploiting the Mongols -- especially by expropriating their pasture lands. As a result of the local pressure of the Chinese on the Mongols, the Mongols were thrown into the arms of the Japanese. Teh Wang did not lead the Mongols of Inner Mongolia over to the side of the Japanese. He merely went with them, when there was no where else to go.

Teh Wang's behavior at the time of Japan's collapse, and Teh Wang's views at the present time, should therefore be of particular interest.

When Japan surrendered, Teh Wang was in Kalgan. His return to his own territory in Inner Mongolia was apparently barred by the military situation. He may well have been equally unwilling to fall into Russian or Outer Mongolian hands, by trying to get to his home in Inner Mongolia, or into Chinese Communist hands, by staying in Kalgan. At any rate, he escaped to Peiping. From there he was flown to Chungking, where he saw President Chiang. Because of all this, Teh Wang has been put on the "wanted" list of war criminals by the Chinese Communists.

Teh Wang is in a situation in which he might easily be seized and suddenly killed not only by the Chinese Communists, or by one or another group of Mongol revolutionaries, but by the Chinese Government, or one of its agencies, because in spite of his good personal relations with President Chiang, he still stands for a kind of Mongol nationalism which is opposed and feared by many Chinese. At the same time, Teh Wang still has bargaining power, and might yet come to the fore again as a figure acceptable, under some kind of compromise agreement, to the Chinese Government, the Chinese Communists, the Outer Mongolian Government, and the Russians.

The following is a concise recapitulation of what Teh Wang had to say:

a) He

=== Page 491 ===
122
-5-

a) He believes that his son and heir (now nearing the age of 30, I believe) may have escaped into Outer Mongolia. If so, Teh Wang may be able to present a case to the Outer Mongolian Government.

b) Teh Wang is certain that there will be an Inner Mongolian movement for secession from China and, eventually for union with Outer Mongolia. Such a movement would be popular in his own part of Inner Mongolia (northern fringes of Suiyuan and Chahar) and, he believes, even more popular in Eastern or Manchurian Inner Mongolia (northern Jehol; western fringes of Liaoning, Kirin, and Heilungkiang).

c) Such a Mongol movement would obviously create a situation favorable to Russia; but in Teh Wang's positive opinion the genesis of the movement will be local and Mongol, not Russian.

d) The Mongol hereditary aristocracy, to which Teh Wang himself belongs, has always been hostile to Outer Mongolia, but will not oppose this new movement. Teh Wang said in so many words that there is no political hope in any movement which aims to preserve Mongol feudalism.

e) The only way to forestall the kind of pan-Mongol movement predicted by Teh Wang is, in his opinion, to throw together all Mongol-inhabited areas in Chahar, Suiyuan, Jehol, and Western Manchuria and make them into one province, with a great deal of autonomy ("like Canada").

The difficulty in carrying through such a measure is that it would be opposed by the Chinese provincial authorities and provincial militarists, who still stubbornly insist that the way to deal with the Mongols of Inner Mongolia is to keep them broken up into "reservations", each one isolated in a corner of some Chinese province.

In view of the importance of the foregoing -- which is capable of ramifying far beyond the area immediately affected -- I venture some specific suggestions.

a) Assign an American to familiarize himself immediately with Inner Mongolian problems and personalities. Colonel William Mayer, at present I believe G2 to General Wedemeyer, has suitable background experience.

b) Reestablish as soon as possible American consular representation in Manchuria and at such cities as Kalgan; establish new consulates at Kueisui (Suiyuan), Chihfeng (Jehol), Taonan (Lioning) and Hailar (Heilungkiang).

c) Take

[Note: The top three lines (item a) are heavily inked and smudged, particularly "(now nearing the", "Outer Mongolia.", and "Outer", but remain legible. In item b, "eventually" ends in a slightly distorted character resembling "t". In the second item b, "Liaoning" is mistyped in the original as "Lioning".]

=== Page 492 ===
123
-6-

c) Take advantage of the recognition of Outer Mongol[ian?] independence by China to extend American recogn[ition to?] Outer Mongolia. Establish consular represent[ation, or?] preferably diplomatic representation, at Ulan [Bator?].

It is not suggested that the foregoing measures would solve the problems which we may confidently expect to arise along the Mongolian frontiers; but it is urged that we should have listening posts, we should know what is going on, and we should be in a position to extend among the Mongol peoples the prestige which we already have as the most important nation in the international relations of Russia and China.

[Note: Heavy shadow / dark band across the top of the page obscures the right margin of lines 1–4, affecting the words "Outer Mongol[ian?]", "recogn[ition to?]", "represent[ation, or?]", and "[Bator?]".]
