=== Page 2 ===
"Required Report"

(Reference Department's mimeographed instruction of June 25, 1936 (File No. CI 800.911/35A)).

NEWS SURVEY

TAIHOKU, TAIWAN, JAPAN, CONSULAR DISTRICT.

From:
Edward S. Maney,
American Consul.

[Handwritten initials to the right, illegible.]

Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan. Date of completion: September 14, 1936.
Date of mailing: September 16, 1936.

[Lower right margin: "F/G".]

[Note: heavy, blotted type. The day "25" in the instruction date and the file number "800.911/35A" are blotted but legible; the year read "1936" in each date, with blotted last digits.]

=== Page 3 ===
-1-

Since Taiwan is a colonial possession of Japan and closely affiliated with the mother country politically and commercially, Taiwan newspapers devote most of their space, not taken up by local news, to covering news item from Japan. However, a certain amount of foreign news items do appear in local newspapers.

Next to Chinese, American news items are estimated to be given more space than those of any other single foreign country. Below an attempt will be made to discuss this coverage of American news items by local newspapers during the past five years.

Administration Policies

Local newspaper interest in American administrative policies seem to be confined to those affecting or pertaining to the Far East and naval building policies. Naturally, exceptions may be cited as regards pronouncements of America's attitude or position in such cases as the Ethiopa and Spanish troubles. But on the whole, little space is devoted to items respecting America's internal policies or America's relations with Latin-American countries.

Coverage of American policies regarding the Far East has decidedly decreased since the excitement over the Manchurean incident. On the other hand, interest in America's naval building program has accounted for increasingly more space being given

this

[Note: "decidedly" is completed by a smaller typed insertion.]

=== Page 4 ===
-2-

this type of news during the past two or three years. Moreover, during the past three years there has been a certain amount of increase in coverage regarding such internal policies as the NRA and like legislation. However, of late such coverage has been on the decline. In summary, it is estimated that there has been little change in the amount of space devoted to American administration policies during the past five years.

Commercial and Trade News

Local newspapers give daily quotations of representative America stocks as indications of price trends in the United States. Cables from the Taiwan Trade Commissioner in New York regarding market conditions and prices for such Taiwan commodities as camphor and tea, especially the latter, are likewise given prominence. But it can not be said that such news items have increased during the past five years.

Crime

Little interest is shown by local newspapers in American crime cases. Exceptionally important cases like the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby, etc., are covered briefly. It is estimated that coverage of crime items have definitely decreased during the past five years.

General

According to a constant and careful reader of local papers during the past five years, newspaper interest in the United States has increased during

that

=== Page 5 ===
-3-

that time. While the fevered excitement of 1931 and shortly thereafter has lessened local interest in administrative policies, there seems to be an increase in general news such as construction items, tariff changes, political elections, sports, etc.

--------------------

File No. 891
ESM/tkh

Original and 4 copies to Commercial Office, Department of State;
1 copy to Commercial Attache, Tokyo;
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

[Note: the year "1931" has a blotted last digit; read from context (the Manchurian incident).]
