=== Page 4 ===
Translation.

    We hereby sanction and cause to be promulgated the Law Amending the Factory Law, which has been passed by the Imperial Diet and approved by the Privy Council.

Imperial Sign Manual
Privy Seal

March 29, 1923.

LAW AMENDING THE FACTORY LAW.

Law No. 23.

    Article 1. This law shall apply to factories coming under the following clauses:
        1. Those ordinarily employing not less than ten operatives.
        2. Those engaged in work injurious to health.
    Factories to which the application of this law is deemed unnecessary shall be exempted by Imperial Decree.

    Article 2. Cancelled.

    Article 3. No factory owner may employ male persons not more than sixteen years of age and female operatives longer than eleven hours per day.

    The Minister of State concerned may, within fifteen years after the date of the enforcement of this law, permit the extension of the working day by not more than two hours, according to the nature of the work.

    In applying the provisions of the two foregoing clauses to cases where two or more workshops are separately situated, the number of hours during which an operative is employed shall be added together.

    Article 4. No factory owner may employ male persons not more than sixteen years of age and female operatives between the hours of 10 p.m. and 5 a.m.

=== Page 5 ===
- 2 -

    Article 5. Cancelled.

    Article 6. Cancelled.

    Article 7. Factory owners shall set aside two days each months as holidays for female operatives and male persons less than sixteen years of age. They shall also set aside as recess periods thirty minutes or more out of each working day when such day exceeds six hours, and one hour or more out of each working day when such day exceeds ten hours.

    The recess periods mentioned in the foregoing clause shall be given to all employes. It is provided, however, that exceptions may be made with the approval of the official having jurisdiction.

    During the summer season, in cases where the recess periods exceeds one hour, factory owners may with the approval of the official having jurisdiction extend the working day by the time by which the recess period exceeds one hour. The time by which the working day is extended shall not, however, exceed one hour.

    Article 8. In the event of calamities, or when it is believed that a calamity may occur, the minister of state concerned may, within certain areas and in certain industries, suspend the application of the provisions of Articles 3 and 4.

    If due to any unavoidable cause any necessity exists, factory owners may with the approval of the officials having jurisdiction extend the working day, despite the provisions of Article 3, and may be permitted to employ female operatives sixteen years or more during such period, despite the provisions of Article 4. Factory owners may also, under such conditions, suspend the recess periods mentioned in the foregoing article.

[Note: the middle of this page is faint; the summer-season paragraph is read from partly visible words.]

=== Page 6 ===
- 3 -

    It is provided, however, that in cases where it may be necessary, because of the rapid deterioration of raw material or to prevent the loss of raw material or supplies, work may be continued for a period not exceeding four days. Up to a total of seven days, in any one month the permission of the authorities need not be obtained.

    In industries which are seasonally active, a factory owner may, with the previously secured permission of the authorities, extend the working day by one hour during certain stated periods; provided, however, that the days in which the working time is extended do not exceed within such period a proportion equivalent to one hundred and twenty days in the year.

    Article 9. Factory owners shall not employ male persons less than sixteen years of age or female operatives in cleaning, oiling, inspecting or repairing machines in motion or the dangerous parts of any power transmission contrivance, or to place or displace the belt or gearing of machines in motion or of any power transmission contrivance, or to employ them in any other dangerous occupation.

    Article 10. Factory owners may not employ persons not more than sixteen years of age at occupations requiring the handling of poisonous or powerful drugs, explosive or inflammable material, or other injurious material. Such persons may not be employed in places where dust or powder is raised to an unusual degree or where gas is generated, or in any other place which may be considered dangerous or injurious to health.

Article 11.

=== Page 7 ===
- 4 -

    Article 11. The nature of the work coming under the provisions of the two preceding clauses shall be determined by the minister of state concerned.

    Subject to the approval of the minister of state concerned, the provisions of the preceding article may be made applicable to female operatives more than sixteen years of age.

    Article 12. The minister of state concerned may ordain certain regulations restricting or prohibiting the employment of sick persons, women who are about to be confined or have been confined, and nursing mothers.

    Article 13. When any factory building, outhouse, or equipment thereof is deemed in accordance with existing regulations to be prejudicial to health, morals, or public interest, the administrative authorities may order the factory owner to carry out necessary preventive measures, or they may prohibit the use of a part or the whole of such building, outhouse, or equipment.

    The administrative authorities may issue instructions to operatives and apprentices with regard to matters which the factory owner has been ordered to carry out.

    Article 14. The administrative officials may inspect any factory building or structure supplementary thereto. They may also examine operatives and apprentices suffering or believed to be suffering from any illness or epidemic disease [last word added by hand above the line] which will necessitate the restriction or suspension of the operation of the factory. They will in such cases carry with them evidence as to their identity.

    Article 15. When an operative is injured, contracts any illness, or dies, in the discharge of his duties, the

factory

[Note: Articles 12 and 13 and the second paragraph of Article 13 are faint; they are read from partly visible words.]

=== Page 8 ===
- 5 -

factory owner shall, in accordance with the provisions of an Imperial Decree, indemnify the operative or his relations or any person subsisting upon the wages of the operative at the time of his death.

    Article 16. An apprentice, one desirous of becoming an apprentice, a factory owner or his legal representative, or a factory superintendent may obtain without charge from a registrar or his representative certificates as to the census registration of the apprentice or of one desirous of becoming an apprentice.

    Article 17. Matters relating to the engagement or discharge of operatives, supervision of employment agencies, and to apprentices shall be determined by Imperial Decree.

    Article 18. Factory owners may appoint factory superintendents vested with full powers in regard to the management of their factories.

    A factory owner who does not reside within the jurisdictive area of this law shall appoint a factory superintendent.

    The approval of the supervisory authorities shall be obtained with regard to the appointment of any person as factory superintendent. This provision shall not obtain, however, when the person is selected from among directors of juridical persons, company members directing the affairs of a company, company members who may represent the company, company directors, and from among those who, in accordance with legal provisions, are required to represent or manage the affairs of a juridical person.

Article 19.

=== Page 9 ===
- 6 -

    Article 19. For the purposes of this law and of ordinances issued in accordance with this law, factory superintendents mentioned in the preceding article may be regarded as factory owners. This shall not apply, however, to the provisions of Article [15?].

    When the factory owner is a minor without the mental competency of a person of full age, an incompetent, or a juridical person, and has not appointed a factory superintendent, his legal guardian, or in the case of a juridical person its directors, legal representatives and managers shall be subject to the provisions of the preceding paragraph in matters relative to the operation of the factory.

    Article 20. Factory owners, or those defined by the preceding article as representatives of factory owners, violating the provisions of this law, ordinances based on this law, or any decision based on this law, shall be fined not more than one thousand yen.

    Article 21. Those refusing to permit, or hindering, the making of inspections by the properly constituted authorities, or evading such inspections, those failing to reply or who reply falsely to the interrogatories of such authorities, and those hindering the examination of operatives and apprentices shall be fined not more than five hundred yen.

    Article 22. A factory owner or any person defined by Article 19 as a representative of a factory owner may not escape the penal provisions of this law for any act violating this law, and ordinances and orders based on this law, which may be committed by the head of his family, any

attorney.

[Note: the second half of Article 19 and Articles 20–21 are faint; they are read from partly visible words.]

=== Page 10 ===
- 7 -

attorney, relation, person domiciled with him, employe or any other person engaged by him in his business, by pleading that the act was not committed under his direction. This provision shall not apply, however, if he has exercised reasonable supervision over the factory.

    A factory owner or any person defined by Article 19 as a representative of a factory owner may not escape the penal provisions of this law by pleading ignorance as to the age of any operative. This provision shall not apply, however, if no fault has been committed by the factory owner, his representative, or any person entrusted with supervisory powers.

    Article 23. Those dissatisfied with the orders of the administrative authorities issued in accordance with this law may file protests, and when their rights have been illegally impaired they may institute administrative litigation.

    Article 24. The minister of state may apply the provisions of Articles 9, 11, 13, 14, [15?], [18?], and [23?] to factories not coming under Article 1 that use motive power.

    Article 25. With the exception of penal provisions and provisions relating to factory superintendents, this law and ordinances issued in accordance with this law shall be applicable to state and other factories.

Supplementary Provisions.

    The date on which this law shall become effective shall be determined by Imperial Decree.

    For a period of three years after the date on which this law becomes effective, the phrase "sixteen years"

occurring

[Note: Articles 24 and 25 are very faint. The last three article numbers in Article 24 cannot be read with certainty.]

=== Page 11 ===
- 8 -

occurring in this law shall be taken to mean fifteen years.

    For a period of three years after the date on which this law becomes effective, the provisions of Article 4 shall not be applicable to cases where operatives are divided into two or more shifts.

    Whenever male persons less than fifteen years of age and female operatives are employed under the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, they shall be given [four?] days vacation each month, and their hours of work shall be changed every ten days or oftener.

[Note: the number of vacation days in the last paragraph cannot be read with certainty.]
