=== Page 377 ===
RB
This telegram must be closely paraphrased before being communicated to anyone.

Peiping
Dated March 18, 1932
Rec'd 4:37 a. m.

Secretary of State
Washington.

350, March 18, 11 a. m.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.

The following has been obtained through the medium of Dr. Ferguson of Peiping as an expression of the views of a very highly placed Japanese now traveling in China for purposes of official investigation.

One. Japan does not intend to annex Manchuria but will insist upon a government there which does not interfere with the railway or undermine Japan's other interests. Japan is not greatly concerned over the activities of the League Commission; for Japan would prefer to give up the League rather than yield upon any matters in Manchuria considered necessary for her safety.

Two. The Shanghai affair is a muddle from which Japan would be glad to extricate herself by any reasonable face-saving process.

Three. Japan is convinced that she cannot live side by side with China dominated by the Kuomintang and Japan will continue to pound away until that organization is

replaced by

=== Page 378 ===
RB                                        Page 2-#350 from Peiping

replaced by some kind of government with which satisfactory relations may be maintained. Chiang Kai Shek has been in constant communication with the Japanese and desires to see present difficulties patched up. Should Chiang cut loose from the Kuomintang he might well be a leader of China with whom Japan might deal.

Four. Japan is determined that Marshal Chang Hsueh-Liang must go and is endeavoring to bring about his retirement. He must eventually be gotten out, even if an incident has to be created for the purpose. Japan does not take seriously the reports of a proposed punitive expedition of the new regime in Manchuria.

Five. The Japanese Government finds great difficulties in its own internal administration since the military branches refrain from reporting upon matters in which they exceed the scope of their government's instructions. It is only when special investigators are sent that the complete facts are ascertained; and, meanwhile, through lack of knowledge of the "whole truth" the Government becomes embarrassed in its relations with other Governments.

Repeated to the Minister.

For the Minister,
PERKINS

RPF-WSB
