=== Page 52 ===
[Handwritten top right: 26m]
[Stamp: [OFFICE CHIEF OF STAFF?] / MIL. INTEL. DIV.]
2063-327
WAR DEPARTMENT
[Handwritten pencil top center: 3 - 2]
[Handwritten pencil top left: arrow pointing up-right with N]
[Handwritten pencil routing mark / scribble across upper right]
[Handwritten pencil near Subject: W]
[Right margin vertical text: 894A.00/21]

No. 7836.
June 24, 1935.

Subject: Travel in Taiwan (Formosa).
To: The Chief, Military Intelligence Division.

1. The refusal of the Japanese War Office to permit inspections of units of the Taiwan Army was reported in our No. 7721, dated March 30, 1935. In view of the visit late in 1934 to the Philippine Islands of two Japanese officers, Lieut. Col. Masachika Hirata, G.S., and Lieut. Col. Masabumi Yamauchi, Inf., instructor at the Army Staff College, the absence of record in this office of a visit to Taiwan by the military attache, it was considered worth while to travel in Taiwan and gain a general knowledge of the island and its people in spite of being unable to inspect military units.

Departing from Kobe on March 6, 1935 on the "Yoshino Maru", an old German built steamer of about [?,000] tons, Keelung was reached on March 9, after a pleasant voyage.

2. Before being allowed to land at Keelung, foreign passengers were subjected to a searching though not unpleasant examination by the port authorities and Military Police to determine their identity and reason for travelling in Taiwan. The fact that everyone had come from Japan proper and had been examined carefully en route when the ship touched at Moji had no apparent effect on the examination by the Keelung inspectors. Foreigners were asked to show passports, but the identification cards furnished members of the Embassy staff by the Foreign Office were accepted as sufficient proof of identity. A special boat train left for Taihoku as soon as the passengers' baggage had been transferred from the steamer and arrived there in about 45 minutes.

3. The Japan Tourist Bureau and a number of foreigners who had travelled recently in Taiwan were consulted before leaving Tokyo

[Bottom right: F/FG.]

[Note: The digit before ",000" in paragraph 1 is faint/unreadable; historically the Yoshino Maru was about 9,000 tons. The top stamp is faint. The page ends mid-sentence at "Tokyo".]

=== Page 53 ===
and a general itinerary drafted. At the Railway Hotel in Taihoku, the only European style hotel on the island, additional information was obtained about travel facilities and a final plan drawn which, however, had to be changed later because transportation around the southern part of the island proved to be better than expected. The travel actually performed was as follows:

March 10 -  8:30 A.M.   Left Taihoku on main line of Government Railway to Tainan via Taichu
            1:21 P.M.   Arrived Nisui
            2:22 P.M.   Left Nisui on Gov't. branch line to Gwaishatei
            3:32 P.M.   Arrived Suiriko and left at once by hired car for Suisha on Lake Jitsugetsutan. Stayed at Japanese inn, Kampeikiro.

March 11 -  8:00 A.M.   Left Suisha by hired car
           10:00 A.M.   Arrived Hori, obtained permission from police to enter mountain district inhabited by aborigines and left at once for Musha. Three hours by "daisha" (coolie-pushed, narrow gauge hand car) to Baikei followed by one hour's walk up steep trail to Musha. Stopped at Gov't. rest house.

March 12 -  9:00 A.M.   Left Musha on foot, arrived Baikei in one hour then by "daisha" to Hori in one hour and a half.
           12:00 noon   Left Hori by hired car for Nisui, arrived 2:50 P.M.
            3:30 P.M.   Left Nisui by local train on main line of Gov't. railway
            [7?]:15 P.M. Arrived Tainan. Unable to stop at best inn, Azuyama, as it was filled by Taiwan Army commander and staff.

March 13 -              Sight seeing in and about Tainan and old port of Anpin.

March 14 -  7:45 A.M.   Left Tainan on main line of Gov't. railway
            9:07 A.M.   Arrived Takao. Sight seeing and lunch as guest of Governor of Tainan Prefecture.
            1:31 P.M.   Left Takao with General Terauchi, commander of Taiwan Army, by rail
            2:12 P.M.   Arrived Heito, visited Taiwan Sugar Co. plant as Gen. Terauchi's guest.
            4:00 P.M.   Left Heito by hired car.
            6:30 P.M.   Arrived Shijukei, stopped at Gov't. hotspring inn

March 15 -  8:00 A.M.   Left Shijukei by hired car of preceding day, arrived at lighthouse on Cape Garambi in 2 hours; stopped one half hour and continued for 3 hours over terrific roads by car via

- 2 -

[Note: The hour digit "7" in "[7?]:15 P.M." is faint. On March 15, the time "8:00 A.M." has an ink mark/overstrike on the first zero. The page ends mid-sentence at "via".]

=== Page 54 ===
Koshun to Taibu on the east coast. From Taibu about four miles along the beach on foot or by chair to a waiting automobile at the southern end of the road and then 3 1/2 hours over more terrific roads to Gov't. hot spring rest house at Chihon (or Chippon) south of Taito.

March 16 -  7:[?]0 A.M. [middle digit faint]   Left Chihon by hired car
            8:10 A.M.   Arrived Taito
            8:20 A.M.   Left Taito by narrow gauge Gov't. railway
            4:20 P.M.   Arrived Kwarenko. Unable to stop at the best inn, Chikuyoken, as it was filled by army officers attending maneuvers.

March 17 -  8:00 A.M.   Left Kwarenko by hired car for entrance to Taroko valley, 50 minutes, and then on foot for three hours up the valley to Batakan. Stopped at Gov't. rest house, walked to Dangai "The Grand Canon of the Far East" in 50 minutes and returned in about the same time over a very steep trail.

March 18 -  7:00 A.M.   Left Batakan on foot, returned to entrance to Taroko valley in about two hours and then by hired car on the new coast cliff road to Suo in about 3 1/2 hours.
            1:50 P.M.   Left Suo on Gov't. railway
            6:01 P.M.   Arrived Taihoku

March 19 -              Sight seeing in Taihoku and vicinity

March 20 -  1:30 P.M.   Left Taihoku by boat train for Keelung; sailed for Kobe via Moji at about 4:00 P.M.

March 23 -  7:00 A.M.   Arrived Moji; sailed about noon

March 24 -  7:00 A.M.   Arrived outside Kobe breakwater but unable to land until about noon because of high wind.

4. Geography.

The attached pamphlet shows the location, size and general topography, railway net and political subdivisions of Taiwan. As indicated by the stream lines and mountain peaks, the principal topographical characteristic is the practically continuous mountain range extending from north to south, quite near the east coast and dividing the island into a broad, fertile, well-watered plain sloping to the west, and a steep, in some places precipitous, slope toward the Pacific Ocean on the east. Practically the only arrable land on the east coast is in the narrow valleys, paralleling the coast, traversed by the railroad connecting Taito and Kwarenko, and in the broader plain north of Suo. The slopes to the east are so steep and the rainfall so heavy at certain seasons, depending on the part of the

- 3 -

[Note: The times and descriptions in the left column on this page are faintly printed (re-photographed with darker exposure on Page 55). The page ends mid-sentence at "part of the".]

=== Page 55 ===
[Duplicate scan of page 3 (page 54), darker exposure]

Koshun to Taibu on the east coast. From Taibu about four miles along the beach on foot or by chair to a waiting automobile at the southern end of the road and then 3 1/2 hours over more terrific roads to Gov't. hot spring rest house at Chihon (or Chippon) south of Taito.

March 16 -  7:[?]0 A.M. [middle digit faint]   Left Chihon by hired car
            8:10 A.M.   Arrived Taito
            8:20 A.M.   Left Taito by narrow gauge Gov't. railway
            4:20 P.M.   Arrived Kwarenko. Unable to stop at the best inn, Chikuyoken, as it was filled by army officers attending maneuvers.

March 17 -  8:00 A.M.   Left Kwarenko by hired car for entrance to Taroko valley, 50 minutes, and then on foot for three hours up the valley to Batakan. Stopped at Gov't. rest house, walked to Dangai "The Grand Canon of the Far East" in 50 minutes and returned in about the same time over a very steep trail.

March 18 -  7:00 A.M.   Left Batakan on foot, returned to entrance to Taroko valley in about two hours and then by hired car on the new coast cliff road to Suo in about 3 1/2 hours.
            1:50 P.M.   Left Suo on Gov't. railway
            6:01 P.M.   Arrived Taihoku

March 19 -              Sight seeing in Taihoku and vicinity

March 20 -  1:30 P.M.   Left Taihoku by boat train for Keelung; sailed for Kobe via Moji at about 4:00 P.M.

March 23 -  7:00 A.M.   Arrived Moji; sailed about noon

March 24 -  7:00 A.M.   Arrived outside Kobe breakwater but unable to land until about noon because of high wind.

4. Geography.

The attached pamphlet shows the location, size and general topography, railway net and political subdivisions of Taiwan. As indicated by the stream lines and mountain peaks, the principal topographical characteristic is the practically continuous mountain range extending from north to south, quite near the east coast and dividing the island into a broad, fertile, well-watered plain sloping to the west, and a steep, in some places precipitous, slope toward the Pacific Ocean on the east. Practically the only arrable land on the east coast is in the narrow valleys, paralleling the coast, traversed by the railroad connecting Taito and Kwarenko, and in the broader plain north of Suo. The slopes to the east are so steep and the rainfall so heavy at certain seasons, depending on the part of the

- 3 -

[Note: Page 55 is a duplicate scan/darker exposure of page 3 of the report (PDF page 54). The text is identical.]

=== Page 56 ===
island, that the streams in flood are uncontrollable and do great damage. Efforts are being made by means of dams and earthwork and stone embankments to hold streams within bounds and permit the reclaiming of otherwise good farm land now periodically ravaged by the boulder filled torrents.

5. Roads.

South of Kwarenko on the east coast, practically nothing has been done toward bridging streams near their mouths so that while road traffic is possible over rough, rocky stream beds during the dry season, movement is impossible when the streams are full. From Kwarenko northward, the road to Suo and beyond is passable at any season since it is cut out of the face of a cliff for about 30 miles north of the entrance to Taroko Valley and well provided with strong bridges the remainder of the way. Hard surfaced, two-way motor roads with strong concrete bridges for the most part parallel the railroads along the west coast and extend eastward into the mountains as far as agricultural development has penetrated. The surface of these roads is not smooth enough to make motor travel a pleasure, but they are undoubtedly serviceable at all times and are being improved constantly. From Heito to Koshun, near the southern tip of Taiwan, the road is comparable to those just described but south of Koshun to Garambi Cape and northeast from Koshun to the east coast and thence along that coast to Taibu ("Taibo" on the map), the road is one-way, unimproved, difficult in dry weather and impassible for motor vehicles in wet weather due to the steep grades, sharp turns and slippery clay soil. Trails in the mountains are numerous and well cared for, providing good communication with the most remote districts for travellers on foot and pack animals which seem, however, to be used but little.

6. Vehicles.

Motor vehicles are in common use in the towns and cities and for long hauls in the country. Almost all automobiles seen were Fords or Chevrolets. Bus. lines operate where ever there is a suggestion of a road. water buffaloes and to a much lesser extent, zebus are the draft animals of the farmers. Zebus are being bred near Koshun by the government in an effort to introduce a more generally useful animal than the water buffalo.

7. Railways.

Rail transportation is provided by government and private railways, and an unusual type of rail transportation called "daisha" or pushcar tram. As shown on the map in the attached pamphlet, rail communication throughout the western plain

- 4 -

[Note: The page starts mid-sentence at "island, that" and ends mid-sentence at "western plain". Text is clearly legible.]

=== Page 57 ===
consists of an elaborate network of Government and private roads supplemented by "daisha" lines extending from points along the railways toward the coast and up the valleys into the high, central mountain range close to and paralleling the east coast. East of the mountains, along the coast, where there is comparatively little land under cultivation and the population is sparce, rail communication is limited to a narrow gauge Government line from Taito to Kwarenko and an extension southward to Suo of the main Government system which serves the west coast. All Government lines were travelled on with the exception of the western shore line from Chikunan to Oiwaki which is not traversed by the principal trains. With the exception of the Taito-Kwarenko line which is about 2 1/2 foot gauge and equipped with diminutive steam locomotive and cars, the Government railways, including all equipment, are exactly the same as those in Japan proper. Schedules are not fast but the service is otherwise excellent. Private lines were not seen, but from descriptions, it is believed that they are similar to the Government railway from Taito to Kwarenko.

The push car tramways have a gauge of about two feet, very light rails and coolies, water buffaloes or oxen as motive power. An adaptation and extension of the usual light railways used in sugar fields, the push car tramways transport passengers and freight and, while naturally slow and leisurely on the level and up-grades, have plenty of speed when cars coast down steep, winding grades. The descent from Baikei to Hori is thrilling as one's car tears along the uneven track with a vertical drop on one side of ten feet or more to a rushing mountain stream below; crosses valleys and small gorges on crude, flimsy bridges, and whirls around sharp, blind curves while a coolie standing on the back of the car blows a tiny tin whistle supposed to clear the way of other cars, people who use the right of way as a trail, and even stray water buffaloes and pigs eating along the tracks.

8. Harbors.

Keelung and Takao are on small harbors said to be capable of handling vessels of 10,000 tons or less. At both places, modern warehouses along a quai have railway facilities, but Keelung has the more elaborate installation with space to berth three 10,000 ton ships at a time. The old harbors at Tansui, near Taihoku, and Anpin, near Tainan, can be used only by very small vessels because of lack of water due to accumulated silt. Harbors on the east coast are open roadsteads used by small boats in good weather.

9. Population.

Taiwan's population is composed of aborigines of Malay origin, Chinese and Japanese. Europeans and Americans are to be found in a few of the larger cities, but their number is very small and their influence of no importance. Aborigines are divided among a number of tribes scat-

- 5 -

[Note: The page starts mid-sentence at "consists of" and ends mid-sentence at "scat-". Text is clearly legible.]

=== Page 58 ===
scattered through the mountain districts, reputed to be quiet and harmless now, but care is taken by the police to control the number of outsiders entering their areas and to provide visitors with escorts to protect them against possible danger. From limited observation, it appeared that tribes vary greatly in appearance, manners, and customs. Members of the mountain tribes in the vicinity of Musha, scene five years ago of a massacre of Japanese of all ages, are small, filthy dirty, serious, stupid and indolent, while those seen along the east coast were larger, stronger, very clean, happy and industrious.

The east coast aborigines farm [or?] work as unskilled laborers on roads and railroads but the mountain people around Musha limit themselves to the minimum amount of work on the trails necessary to entitle them to a bare living from the government. The Japanese agent in charge of the Musha district admitted that the massacre there five years ago was the fault of the Japanese police fresh from Japan who did not understand the natives and tried to civilize them too fast. Appropriation of native women by the police is given by foreign residents as the cause of the outbreak.

Most of the farm owners and laborers, common laborers and small shop keepers are Chinese. Japanese operate railways, factories, power plants, department stores, banks and other large undertakings, and furnish personnel for practically all government positions. The three elements of the population do not compete seriously with each other and appear to live side by side harmoniously.

10. Taiwan Army.

General Juichi Terauchi, commander of the Taiwan Army, confirmed previous information that the Taiwan Army consists of two infantry regiments, one pack artillery battalion, coast defense artillery at Keelung, Takao and Boko Island (off the west coast), and one regiment of aviation, and said that the organization and equipment of units are the same as for similar units in Japan proper.

The four hangars of the 8th. Air Regiment near Heito, seen from the train, were typical of a three-squadron regiment. Also seen from a train was part of a barrack area of the Keelung coast artillery including one gun, about 5", on a pedestal mount under a shed obviously used only for drill purposes. While entering and leaving the harbor of Keelung, and viewing the harbor of Takao from a nearby hill, no indication was seen of coast defense installations of any kind although both places are listed and treated as "fortified areas". The probable light protection of these two small harbors could be concealed easily on conveniently located, heavily wooded hills.

11. Counter Espionage.

- 6 -

[Note: The page starts mid-sentence at "scattered through". In paragraph 2, there is an irregular space between "farm" and "work" with faint traces of typing, possibly "or", transcribed as [or?].]

=== Page 59 ===
Constant surveillance while ashore by military and other police, some of whom introduced themselves, while others merely observed furtively, was the only disagreeable feature of travel in Taiwan. Japanese say that such attention is not reserved for foreigners, but is given also to visiting Japanese who are viewed also with great suspicion.

12. General Impressions.

To the tourist, Taiwan gives the impression of being a beautiful, prosperous, well administered island. Japanese government, sanitation, schools, railways and roads have been superimposed on a Chinese background sufficiently to give at least an outward appearance of cleanliness and order, to provide education for all, and furnish good transportation and other modern utilities without destroying the essentially Chinese character of the people and atmosphere of the place.

William C. Crane,
Major, General Staff,
Military Attache.

2 Encls.
"To Taiwan by O.S.K. Line"
Photographs (original only).

- 7 -

[Note: The typewriter ribbon is faint across the latter half of section 12 and the signature lines, but all words remain decipherable.]
