=== Page 4 ===

(Translation from Taiwan Shimbun of March 25, 1938)

THE WAY TO PERFECT OUR COUNTRY'S DEFENSE
ISLANDERS UNITING IN ATTACK ON SPY NET

Spy Prevention Societies Meeting Everywhere

KEELUNG CITY

Looking to the eradication of international spies and planning the perfection of methods of spy prevention, the preliminary meeting of the Spy Prevention League of the City of Keelung held its inaugural meeting as previously announced, on the third floor of the City's meeting room on the 24th at 1:10 P.M. Various organizations under the jurisdiction of the government, firms, factories, mines, waiting houses, associations, and other public spirited representatives of the officials and people totaling over 50 were present. Mayor Yano, Staff Officer Mihara, Chief of the Military Police Detachment Hayashi and others attended. Government leader Mitake opened the meeting proposing Mr. Tokigoro Ohmi as presiding officer and then made the following remarks concerning the mechanism of the league:

"Government offices will organize their own separate organization, and it is suggested this present society be composed of only civilians. It was desired to have this society amalgamate with the sea spy prevention society, but it has not been able to realize this because of special conditions pertaining thereto".

Then Police Chief Ina's plan for bye-laws was explained, and the Sea Spy Prevention Amalgamation explanation was also given, but it was finally decided unanimously to organize independently and Mr. Izumi and 14 others were appointed to the organization committee and the meeting closed at 2 P.M. But those selected for the committee then met and decided to make league members of everyone in the city, and to form a close investigation liaison with the military authorities concerned and carry on activities under them. To spread a spy prevention network over the entire city each firm, factory, association etc., will form a special spy prevention society which will be a unit of the Japanese Ward Spy Prevention Societies, while Formosan Chinese will organize a "Hoko" (volunteer police) Spy Prevention Society within the jurisdiction of each branch police station and each representative will become a league member. The work of spies and the idea of prevention will of course be diffused thoroughly through lecture meetings and round table conferences, and every effort made to strengthen the defenses of fortified Keelung.

TAIWAN

=== Page 5 ===

- 2 -

TAINAN

In connection with the formation of the Spy Prevention Society of the city of Tainan, various representatives of the city were called on the 18th to an informal conference with Tainan Government and unanimously agreed to organize and decided to approve the following revised bye-laws.

Articles of Agreement of the Spy [P?]revention Society of the City of Tainan:

1. This society shall be called the Spy Prevention Society of the City of Tainan and its place of business shall be the Tainan Police Office.

2. The members of this society shall mutually by close cooperation and coordination prevent the leakage of military secrets, and takes upon itself the duty of preventing the invasion of spy information organs from spying on the conditions of the country etc.

3. In order to realize the objective of the last article this society will have its members, immediately it is learned, pass on information to the police or military police as covered by the following clauses:
    1. Whenever the doings of suspicious looking foreigners are observed.
    2. Whenever there is or is suspected to be unlawful photographing, sketching, note taking, or surveying of the broadcasting station, wireless station, air field, entrance to Anping harbor, barracks and other places important from a military standpoint.
    3. Whenever it is discovered or suspected that someone is unlawfully trying to find out about aeroplane manufacturing works, metal industries, machine works, munitions and munition parts manufacturing plants, steel boat manufacturing works, iron foundries, the gold mining industry, coal mines, oil wells, oil refineries and oil import companies, and the condition of other important resource industries.
    4. Whenever it is discovered or suspected that someone is trying to obtain spy information on the country's conditions, or their movements are generally suspicious.

4. This society shall be organized with the delegation of listed and members recommended by

the

[Note: In the heading "Articles of Agreement of the Spy Prevention Society of the City of Tainan:", the word "Prevention" is typed without the initial "P" as " revention".]

=== Page 6 ===

- 3 -

the following groups:
1. Each department of government offices in Tainan Province.
2. Each Department in the city office of Tainan
3. Each school in Tainan city
4. The Taiwan Government General's Sugar Experimental Station
5. The Tainan branch office of the Monopoly Bureau
6. Tainan Station
7. Each [p?]ostoffice in Tainan City
8. The residence of the technical officials of the main post office.
9. Customs branch office in Anping
10. Tainan Radio Station
11. Tainan Wireless Station
12. Tainan Library
13. Tainan Museum
14. Tainan Industrial Museum
15. Tainan branch of the Ex-soldiers Society
16. Each firm and its branch and agency within Tainan city
17. Each kind of industrial association in Tainan city
18. Each kind of business association and society in Tainan City
19. Each kind of commercial group in Tainan City
20. Each newspaper office and branch in Tainan City
21. Each photograph shop and radio repair and sales shop in Tainan City
22. Each iron foundry and shipbuilding works in Tainan City

23.

[Note: In item 7, the initial "p" in "postoffice" is faint, appearing like an apostrophe; in item 11, the initial "W" in "Wireless" is faint.]

=== Page 7 ===

- 4 -

23. The Tainan Fire Brigade
24. Each Tainan defense league and its branch.
25. Tainan Weights, Measures and Scales investigation office.
26. Tainan hospitals.

5. The representatives in the preceeding article may establish a sub-group of each group.

6. Each sub-group shall be governed by regulations related to sub-groups.

7. The mainsociety shall have the following officers:
    1. One president of the society.
    2. A number of vice presidents.
    3. A number of councilors.
    4. A number of committee members.
    5. A number of managers.
    6. A number of secretaries.

The society's president shall be the Chief of Police of Tainan.

(the next 14 articles are omitted by the newspaper)

BOKO CHO (pescadores)

The spy prevention round table meeting sponsored by the Boko government (of the Pescadores Islands) at Mako, held a meeting on the 23 beginning at 10 A.M. at the Government Conference room. Those present included Prefectural Chief Hayashida, Commander Aoki of the Fortified Zone, City chief Miura, Senior Staff Officer Kojima Lieutenant Commander Nakajima, Adjutant Yoshioka, Staff officer Tama(?), Naval judiciary officer Iida, Chief Hayashi of the Military affairs branch, Chief Sano of the Police Affairs Department, Chief Minami of the General Affairs Section, Head Uchida of the Grammar Schools, Chief Namba of the sub-prefectural government, Head postmaster Kobayashi, The Chief of each government defense section, printing, photography, restaurants, and others in various occupations, in all numbering eighty persons.

Firstly, Chief Sano of the Police Affairs Department opened the meeting and then there was worshiping of the Imperial Palace from a distance and then Prefectural Chief Hayashida as chief sponsor of the meeting said a few words strongly emphasizing the oneness of officials and people in concurrence in a spy prevention front looking

toward

[Note: On line 3 of the Boko Cho section, "A.M." in "10 A.M." is somewhat faint.]

=== Page 8 ===

- 5 -

toward the perfection of the country's defense. Next Chief Hayashi of the Military Affairs branch delivered a lecture lasting about an hour in connection with the law for the protection of military secrets. Following which Commander Aoki of the Fortified Zone explained in detail national defense in a narrow sense and national defense in a broad sense, and strongly urged the strengthening of the nationalistic idea and the important nature of spy prevention, and finally explained the various methods and ways of spies. Furthermore he went into the minutest details in explaining the theory and practice of spy prevention. Finally concluded by saying that he looked for united cooperation in national spy prevention to make assurance doubly sure. Those present having partaken deeply of the idea of spy prevention then held a round table discussion, and everyone with a useful opinion expressed himself. Senior Staff Officer Kojima then spoke of spy prevention desires from the standpoint of the Navy. Again Chief Judiciary Officer Iida gave two or three particulars concerning expected accomplishment and guidance. At last Prefectural Head Hayashi spoke a word in closing the meeting and then in a loud voice led in three Imperial Japanese banzais after which the meeting broke up at 4 P.M. (having lasted 6 hours at a stretch)

DAITON PREFECTURE

Looking toward the extermination of the enemy's spies who have become rampant since the emergency, the Daiton Prefectural Round Table Conference on Spy Prevention, met at 2 [P.M.?] on the afternoon of (March) 26th, at a meeting led by the Prefectural Village Head and under the auspices of the Prefectural Police Section. The representatives of each kind of society and firm and factory in the village cooperated and village headmen, school masters, members of village assemblies, representatives of various organizations, firms and factories, as well as members of the Young Men's Associations, etc., including over 120 persons were invited and making one with the prefectural authorities decided to spread a spy net suppression front.

HOKUTO PREFECTURE

Since the China Incident has gradually entered a second stage and become a long drawn out war, and the time has come when the people should conduct themselves in all seriousness, and particularly in view of the special kind of conditions with which this Island is entrusted, and in view of its important nature, the officials and people should plan to perfect the national defense by wholehearted cooperation in guarding against foreign spies. So that in Hokuto

Prefecture

[Note: In lines 17–26 of the first paragraph, the ribbon impression is faint, with some initial capitals ("S" in "Staff", "O" in "Officer", "A" in "Again", "P" in "Prefectural") very faint or missing. The word "PREFECTURE" in the headings "DAITON PREFECTURE" and "HOKUTO PREFECTURE" is faintly struck. Following "2" in the Daiton section, the characters are faint and appear to be "P.M.".]

=== Page 9 ===

- 6 -

Prefecture on the 26th of March from 10 A.M. at the Hokuto "hoko" (volunteer police) Office, there will be held a meeting and a round table conference on spy prevention to be attended by officials of each government and public organization and others interested within the jurisdiction of Hokuto Prefecture.

(Note: Similar societies are being organized in Shoka, Inrin, Giran and other places in Taiwan. None has yet been formed in the city of Taihoku.)
