102.81 Administration, United States Government, Bureau Of Foreign And Domestic Commerce., September 7, 1940 (File 1210)
ID: 102.81-1210   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-102.81-administration-united-states
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
DCA FE
FW 102.81 SHANGHAI (FROM) A-FU

TELEGRAM RECEIVED

FROM

EH GRAY
Shanghai via N. R.
Dated September 7, 1940
Rec'd 1 a.m. 8th.

Secretary of State,
Washington.

883, September 7, 1 p.m. (SECTION THREE) The fact that there is a shortage of commercial tonnage all along the China Coast and that prevailing freight rates are high might justify the high interest rates which the Japanese are willing to pay, but earnings on traffic between points in the Japanese-controlled areas, though attractive would not be likely to be as great as has been the case with these ships in plying between Shanghai and the Chinese-controlled ports. Presumably the Japanese interest would plan to purchase United States dollars in the Shanghai open market, utilizing earnings, thus adding to the already heavy strain upon the yuan, in which case the credit to be opened in New York might thus be entirely replaced, necessitating no permanent release of funds by the Japanese Government from its foreign exchange reserves. It is possible also that purchase of some former American transports now under the Panaman flag may be involved.

It

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
EH -2- 883, September 7, 1 p.m. (SECTION THREE) from Shanghai

It is patent that because of lack of capital and more ready financing facilities, Japanese interests suffer severe handicaps in their efforts quickly to realize economic and commercial benefits out of the position they enjoy as a result of Japanese military exploits in China, as frequent applications are received from Japan by American banks here for financing of all manner of undertakings. While it is believed that, so far, no such applications have been served by American banks here, the proposed transaction, if carried through, it is believed, would establish a precedent and might prove to be the entering wedge for further and wider scale American financing of Japanese undertakings in China.

Sent to the Department. Code text by air to Chungking, Peiping and Tokyo. (END OF MESSAGE)

BUTRICK

TFV
