848H.114 Regulations Governing, Bechuanaland, Traffic In Liquors And Habit-Forming Drugs., June 19th, 1942 (File 1356)
ID: 848H.114-1356   Pages: 74   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-848h.114-regulations-governing-bechuanaland-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
Communicated to the
C. 40.M.40.1942.XI.
Council and the llembers
(0.C/A.R.1941/10).
STATF
(Issued in English only)
REORVET
Geneva, June 19th,
1942.
AME!SULATE TBAI942 IH OPIUI AND OTHER DAIGEROUS DRUGS.
OANUAL REPORTS BY GOVERINENTS FOR 1941.
Rec'd
BECHUAHALACD PROTECTORATE.
Comrunicated by the Government of the United Kingdom.
POLITICAL SECTION
Note by the Acting Secretary-General.
In accordance with Article 21 of the Convention of 1931 for
limiting the Manufacture and regulating the Distribution of Narcotic
Drugs, the Actin: Secretary-Jeneral has the honour to communicate the
above-mentioned report to the parties to the Convention. The report
is also communicated to other States end to the Advisory Committee on
Traffic in Opium and other Dangerous Drugs.
(For the form of ennual reports, see document
848H
0.c.1600)
A.
GENERAL.
114 NARCOT
I.
LAWS AND PUBLICATIONS.
Nil.
II.
ADIINISTRATION.
There have been no modifications.
III. CONTROL OF INTERHATIONAL TRADE
The import certificate system for thecontrol of import and
export has worked satisfactorily. There are no dealings with
the countries which have not yet adopted this system. No
difficulties have arisen with regard to transit, shipment, etc.
C
v.
ILLICIT TRAFFIC.
S
There is nothing to report.
B. RAW MATERIALS.
VII. RAI OPIUM. VIII. COCA LEAF.
S
The country does not produce raw opium and does not ultivate
the coca plant.
P
1
IX. INDIAN HEIP ("DAGGA")
5
19
This is indigenous and is cultivated to a very small
etent.
It is not permitted, but dried hemp leaves are smoked surrep-
titiously, During the year 1941 there were 21 convictions for
being in unlawful possession of Indian Hemp ("Dagga"), which
PS
was subsequently destroyed.
C. MANUFACTURED DRUGS.
/MP
X. Intornal Contcol of Manufactured Drugs.
There are no factories or manufact ures of drugs in the country.
Permits for the use or possession a drugs have been granted
solely to medical practitioners and Government veterinary officers
in the Protectorate.
(Sgd.) J.W.STIRLING.
PRINCIPAL MEDICAL OFFICER.
Mafeking. February 5th,1942.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.91)
partment of Sta
any
0
Divisionos
FAR EASTERN AFFÁRS
894a.114No
91930
1
filo
INDEX BUREAU
DEPT. OF STATE
PUBLICATIONS SE CTION
MAY 9 1930
DMPLICATE
830
12
Subjest:
A Survey of the Opium
Sitation in Taiwan.
Frems
Viee Consul
Charles S. moed II
Taihaka, Taiman, Japan. Date of ocmpletion: April 10, l9so.
Date of mailing : April 11, 19s0.
MAY 19 1930

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-1-
he opium polioy in Talwan.
The policy of the Taiwan Government General with regard
to the control of opium and narcotios has come in for con-
sider tle notoriety nd eli liclsm within the last few months.
Itough the iot om of control has always been an
active  ueetion, little i terest was taken by the meneral
oublie and the pres: in ndsimistrative detalls until the
question of issuing new licenser to confirmed okers,
seoret smokers, wes ruloed
virtue  the pidinance
of Taiwan, revised in 1929 in accordance witn tne provisions
of the International Convention concluded in Geneva in
1925. when, however, it was announced that the aiwan
covernment Coneral plained to increase the numt er cf ilcenses
in order to provide ior all mokers of opite in laiwan,
organizeo cpposition to cover mental methods of control made
itself manifest.
The visit o1 the commisslon from the Leaeue cf Nations
gave publioity to the opium and narcotic quention d articles
in the press dealing wiin this visit and the work of the
Commission served to provide additional fuel to a uestion
which, through this very pun licity, became a three cornered
controversy between the overmnent in Tokyo, the Taiwan
Govermment eneral and tne so-called radical elements in
Taiwan.
Outline of the new licensing scheme.
In general the announoed polioy of the Taiwen Govern-
ment General provides that all snokers who apply for licenses
within a certain period will be granted lioenses if after
phymicel examination it 1s determined that the narootio
eddiction 1s so deeply rooted as to render any attempt to
oure the habit dangerous to life or health.
In pursuance of this plan a census of seoret smokers
was

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
es taken between December 1929 and February 1930, or
rather, applications for licenses were accepted. It is
reported that between 25,000 and 30,000 secret smokers so
declared themselves. It is also reported by the Formosan
Social Demooratic Party that approximetely 20,000 secret
smokers refused to apply at this time either becnuse of
social reasons, the disgrace attached to opium addiction,
or because of political reasons, possible imprisorment
oppression by the Government uthorities.
s having a
direot bearing on the last mentioned point the Social
Demooratic Party state that some years ago when the Govern-
ment called for new applications for licenses many of those
who applied were imprisoned and fined.
Whether the Teiwan Government merely decided as to
the number of new licenses to be issued or actually began
to issue licenses is unknown, lthough certain sources
report that a number of new licenses were actually issued.
The Overseas Department.
According to those same souroes, no sooner had the
Taiwan Government General decided to iss e a certain number
of new licenses, or had issued a number of the new licenses,
than the Overseas Department of the Tokyo Government took
steps to stop rurther moves in carrying out the outlinod
plan.
The Taiwan Government General offioially denied that
there had been any intervention on the part of the Overseas
Department and the Government in Tokyo other than advisory.
The faet remains that the great weight of evidenoe gathered
from artieles in the press, from visits by high officials
attaehed to various bureaus in Tokyo, and from the state-
ments of persons who have studied the question in detail,
seems to indieate that some pressure was brought to bear
on

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
on the Taiwan Government General.
Governor General Ishidzuka in an interview with press
representatives criticized the Department of Overseas Affairs
as not minding its own business and endeavoring to go too
far in its advisory and representative capacity. Seemingly
contradictory to the above, it was stated in the same inter-
view that the rumor that that Department had dictated the
poliey of opium control or had in any way restrioted the
administration of opium control measures was absolutely
unfounded.
It is possible that the coming visit of the Commission
of the League of Nations brought about the halt in issuing
new licenses and a reconsideration of the entire scheme. It
is a faet, however, that there was an abrupt change of front
as regards the number and issuing of new licenses.
The Japan Chronicle.
When the poliey of increasing the number of licenses
was announced, considereble agitation was noted in both
press and publio. It was freely charged that the Taiwan
Government General was seeking only to increase its revenue
and had no amelioration of a vicious habit in mind. The
Japan Chronicle stated in an editorial that (1) consumption
of narootios has not deoreased in Taiwan, (2) this is due to
granting licenses to addicts from China, (3) there is con-
siderable produotion of opium poppy in Taiwan, (4) there 1s
considerable manufacture of cocaine in Taiwan, and (5) Japan
is acting as a modium in the amuggling of opium and other
narooties.
Mr. Ishii, Chief of the Hygienie Seetion of the Govern-
ment General, issued a denial and justification. He stated
that consumption has not inereased and that consumption has
been confused with ineome - the price of opium has been
inereased

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
4
Inereased several times since the inauguration of the
Opium Monopoly; although it was possible that some addicts
from China have obtained lioenses, the Government has taken
reasonable precautions to prevent the entry into Taiwan of
addiots - unless a physical examination of every person
coming fram China was made it was impossible to prevent the
entry of opium addicts; no opium poppy was being grown in
Taiwen although formerly a very small amount was grown;
cocaine is produced in very small quantities under strict
supervision - the question of cocaine addiction is not to
be considered seriously as only a very small number have
this type of narootic addiotion; it is true that there has
been considerable smuggling through Japan and Japanese
territory but the proximity to China and the case of
communication has rendered smuggling operations less difficult
than between countries more widely separated - the Government
has taken cognizance of the diffioulties attendant upon
the prevention of smuggling and has taken steps to prevent
the illicit entry of narcotios.
The position taken by Mr. Ishi1, as spokesman for the
Taiwan Govermment, is absolutely justified if considered as
an answer to specific charges. If, however, the whole poliey
of the Govermment is considered as being good or had, a
suceess or failure, his statement can readily be taken to
be a skilful bit of camoflage, applied liberally to hide
certain embarrassing diserepancies.
Failure to control opium addiction.
It is sharged, and with some degree of truth, that the
Taiwan Govermment General has never taken any positive
measures to prevent opium mmoking, and that a licensing
seheme is at the best only a subterfuge. It is also charged
that, after 50 years of supposedly striet control, opium is
oas11y

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
basily obtainable and secret smokers number more than
formerly. The Formosan Social Democratic Party have advanoed
the view that the Government has realized its failure to
control smoking and has therefore determined to capitalize
this failure by giving licenses to all secret smokers.
Whereas on paper the plan of iving licenses to those
who cannot be cured of their ad iction is admirable it is
freely charged that the Government will be exceedingly
liberal in classifying those who cannot be
cured.
Administra-
tion of the issuing of new licenses ill therefore embroil
all parties in further altercations and charges of undue
laxity will probably be made, whether based on truth or
absolutely unfounded.
However, it is not believed that
the Government will or can afford to err on the side of
laxity in view of the publicity hich has been  iven this
question.
It is understood of course that for the most part
charges against the policy of the Taiwan Government General
emanate from the reactionary and radical element who are
quick to seize the opportunity to criticize.
Yet to an
unbiased observer the measure which provides for doubling
the number of licensed smokers seems to be a confession of
inability to deal with the problem. There are approximately
27,000 licensed smokers, 25,000 declared secret smokers,
and certainly some thousands of secret smokers who are
unwilling to declare thenselves. Thus there is a total
number addicts equal to the number of licensed addicts in
1915. It is patent that the Government has not been able
to control opium smoking and opium smuggling.
The Formosan Social Demooratio Party.
The Minshuto, the Sooial Demooratio Party, is composed
of Formosan-Chinese from all walks of life and of all degrees
of

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
of education. Among the leaders of the party are lawyers,
physicians, and business men, some of whom attended colleges
and universities in the United States. Although opposed to
the Government on all questions, this party is especially
denunciatory of the policy of opium control.
Among the many charges which re brought against the
Japanese administration f the opium uestion the most serious
are (1) no honest effort has been made to control the opium
habit, (2) many government officials holding responsible
positions under the police and customs have been bribed by
opium smugglers, (3) whereas formerly it was taught in the
schools that narcotic addiction was injurious and vicious
now no attempt is being made to educate the younger genera-
tion in this respect, (4) the Taiwan Government seeks to
cover its own failure by stating that Formosans and Chinese
can not work without opium.
This organization calls for the immediate and total
abolition of the licensing system, maintaining that the
great majority of addiots would welcome an opportunity to
rid themselves of narootic addiction. It is pointed out
that the faot that there has been an increase in the number
of seoret smokers is not incompatible with a desire for the
abolishment of opium, inasmuch as opium is so easily obtain-
able that for the average Formosan there is practioally no
restriotion. Great stress is laid on the fact that sinoe
the Government, compelled by public opinion, established
a number of hospitals devoted to the cure of addiotion there
have been many and an inoreasing number applioants, over
and above the capacity of these hospitals, for admission.
Apropos of this point it is stated that the majority of
applicants for oure are secret addiots.
As a substitute for the poliey of the Taiwan Goverm-
ment the Social Democratie Party would place all elderly
and

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
and inourable addicts under the control of physicians,
all others being compelled to enter a hospital for treat-
ment. As the majority of lioensed smokers are over 50
years of age that class would probably continue smoking
under rigid supervision while secret smokers who are said
to average between 30 and 40 years of age would be rclieved
of the pernicious habit.
There is considerable basis in fact for some of the
charges of the Social Demooratio Party when freed of the
rancor which is characteristic of political antagonism.
The Taiwan Government General has not been able to defend
its actions in certain respec ts and has undertaken to defend
its position by simple denial of all allegations. As an
illuminating answer to charges brought by one of the leaders
of the Minshuto it was sta ted in the Taiwan ichi ichi
Shimpo, a semi-official organ, that no man who has more
than one wife is qualified to speak of humanitarian
prinoiples.
On the other hand the position of the Formosan Social
Demooratio Party is not altogether based on truth. It is
exceedingly doubtful that the majority of addicts desire
to be cured. It is doubtful if absolute prevention of
smuggling is possible having in mind the geographio position
of Taiwan. It is also doubtful if the non-licensing plan
of this organization would bring a Utopian land, free from
all vicious habits.
The Commission of the League of Nations.
The arrival of the Commission of the League of Nations
was announeed by the following press communique:
"The Commission of Enquiry into the Control of
Opium Smoking in the Far East, appointed by
the League of Nations, arrived in Taihoku on
February 19th in order to conduot its enquiry
in Formosa.
The Commission has already completed its work
1n

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
in Burma, British Malaya, the Netherlands
East Indies, Siam, French Indo-China, Hongkong,
Macao and the Philippine Islands.
The Member of the Commission are: His Excellency
Mr. Erio Einar Ekstrand, Swedish Minister to
Buenos Aires ( Chairman ) ; Mr. Max Leo Gerard,
Direotor-General du Donds d'amortissement de
la dette publique belge and President de la
Societe diEconomie politique de Belgique; Dr.
Jan Havlasa,  ember of the Czech Aoademy and
former Czechoslovakian Minister to Brazil. The
Secretary of the Commission is Mr. Bertil Arne
Renborg, Member of Section of the ecretariat
of the League of ations.
While in Formose the Commission will confer
with and hear evidence by representatives of
the Departments of the Govern ent General of
Formosa and will also undertake an inspection
tour of the Central and Southern parts of
Formosa.
The Commission is interested in hearing the
views on the question of the control of opium
smoking expressed by private organizations and
individuals interes ted in the subject. Any
such organization or individual having views
to place before the Commission is requested to
communicate with the Secretary, at the Taiwan
Railway Hotel, Taihoku.
As the time at the disposal of the Commission
for its enquiry in Formosa is limited it will
not be possible to hear personally the representa-
tive of organizations and individuals interested
and they are therefore requested to present
their views in writing"
On the evening of the l9th an official dinner was
given in honor of the Commission and Director General Hitomi
delivered the following address:
"It is for us a great joy and honor that Taiwan
is able to receive the visit of the honorable
Commission of Inquiry on the opium problem,
appointed by the Council of the League of Nations -
the Commission which consists of the eminent
gentlemen of wide experience and excellent
capacity in managing the international questions.
I regret very much that Governor General Ishizuka,
as he is away in Tokyo on offioial duty, can
not be able to receive you personally, and I am
honoured to welcome you in his stead.
The Island is now just in the thirty firth
year of Japanese administration and it is still
on the way of improvement; having many problems
which require future solutions or accomplishments.
However, when we recolleet what we have achieved
during that period nobody can probably deny
that Taiwan has undergone a complete change,
politically, economieally and culturally.
From

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
From a politioal point of view it is always
considered a very diffioult problem in any
country to reform the manners and customs of
the bulk of the population. In Taiwan it has
been likewise one of the most difficult tasks
for the successive administrators during the
35 years of Japanese occupanoy to bring the
abolishment of the opium habit long established
among the natives, who comprise 90% of the
inhabitants of the Island. As we have recognized
that to eradicate this custom at one time simply
by means of control under prohibitory rules
or regulations is a most difficult thing, we
have adopted a so-called "gradually prohibiting
principle" under which licenses would be given
only to the individuals whose smoking habit is
so deeply rooted that it is impossible for them
to stop without fatal results. Those who are
not licensed are not permitted to smoke under
pain of heavy penalties. oreover to regulate
the supply of opium, the manufacture and sale
of the same are monopolies of the Government.
Thus, we have planned to eradicate this vicious
habit by the natural extinotion of the licensed
smokers. The results of this system are very
satisfactory. There was for instance an period
when the number of licensed smokers was
approximated at nore than 170,000 while at
present this number has decreased to only
25,000!
Though this is the present situation, we have
further revised our opium regulations in January
last year, in conformity with the principle
of the Geneva Convention of 1925, to regulate
more striotly the traffic in and use of opium.
According to our revised regulations, licenses
will be given as a transitory measure only to
those who are already addicts at the time of
coming into force of these new regulations.
Unlicensed smokers as discovered shall either
undergo compulsory medical treatment for cure,
or be prohibited under a severe punishment.
To carry into dffect the new regulations we
are now investigating the clandestine smokers
and taking neoessary step to deal with them.
Fortunately the number of suoh smokers are not
very great, and we believe that many of them
may be cured by the medical treatment.
The existence of secret smokers is very
regrettable. The reason for this very un-
satisfactory situation is twofold. Firstly;
the communications between this Island and
the Chinese coast are very frequent owing to
the very short distanee, and Secondly; the
illicit trade in opium has been so cleverly
manipulated that we have experienoed up to
date a great diffioulty in it's control,
notwithstanding our utmost effort to prevent it.
In view of past experiences we are now planning
to

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
to extend the police and customs personnal
and equippement and to install a more rigorous
supervision.
These in general are the measures that the
Taiwan Government have already adopted or are
adopting to control the opium smoking in the
Island.
We are therefor exceedingly glad that Your
Excellencies have come such a great distance
to this Island charged with the mission by
the League of ations, und we take it for granted
that this is n unique opportunity for us that
our real effort will be correctly understood
by the powers interested in opium problem,
through the unbiassed Commission which you
constitute.
We hope you will stay ou the lsland as long
as ciroumstances permit and will throu hly
investigate our opium affairs.
Wishing you a pleasant trip on the 1 lnd
I drink to the heal th of Your Excellencies.
to which Mr. E.E. Ekstrand, Swedish  inister to Argentina,
replied as follows:
On behalf of the Opiun Commission I thank you
most sincerely for the courteous words by which
you addressed us at the beginning of your most
interesting speech to the Members of the Commission.
Your speech contained, so far as I understand
it, quite a report and a programme of measures
whioh the Japanese Government has already taken
and intends to take in order to achieve its
international obligations as far as the opium
problem is concerned in Formosa.
However, this opium problem is not a local
problem. It is an international problem and
it is to fulfil international obligations that
your Government is doing what you in your eloquent
speech have communicated to the Commission.
The very fact that the opium question is an
international problem requires international
collaboration in order to arrive at the result
whioh long ago had already been drawn up as the
final achievement.
The Opium Commission will only be too happy if
by its enquiries and its impartial judgment one
more stone may be added to the building which
the different Governments are, in collaboration,
trying to ereot in order to deal with and get
complete control of the opium problem.
It 1s with this intention that the Opium Commission
is going to begin its enquiry here on Japanese
territory; and we know from the personal contact
we all have had, from the very first personal
oontact,

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
contact, that we shall get here all
the necessary support, all the necessary
assistance, all the necessary collaboration
in order to arrive at the accomplishment
of a common work.
I thank Your Excellenoy on behalf of the
Commission in advance for that collaboration
we know that we shall get, and I ask you all
to rise nd drink to the health of the august
ruler of the Japanese Empire and to the
health and prosperity of the clorious Japarese
people."
After a short stay in Taihoku the Comnission proceeded
to the South where investigations in that district were
made. Especial attention was paid to smucclin operations
and preventive measures as such operations and such measures
determine in great part the efficacy of opium control.
Returning to Taihoku the Commission ranted interviews to
the leaders of the Social Democratic 'arty and to a another
group of Formosan Chinese who may be said to represent
agreement with the Government's policy.
The delegates of the inshuto were Messrs Rin Ken Do,
wealthy land-owner, Sai Shiki Koku, lawyer, and Sho I Sui,
physician. Among the questions and answers the following
are said to be representative of the interview.
Rin Ken Do:
Opium is doing considerable harm in all
countries of the world and Your Excellencies'
visit for investigation is appreciated for
humanity's sake. My opinion as to the
eradication of the opium evil is (1) gradual
decrease of poppy cultivation, (2) striot
control of opium smoking, (3) spread propaganda
throughout the world as to the injurious effects
of opium smoking, and (4) to enforce medical
treatment. Opium smoking should be absolutely
prohibited.
Question:
How can you prohibit entirely when poppy is
cultivated in large quantities in South China
where smuggling is going on? Taiwan may want
prohibition but it seems impossible owing to
amuggling.
Rin Kon Do:
Cultivation must be prohibited and smuggling
altogether oheoked.
Question:
What method do you suggest to cheok smuggling?
Striet punishment or striet watoh of the coast
line?
Rin Ken Do:

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Rin Ken Do:
Both. The Customs and port authorities to
keep strict watoh and impose heavy punishment
on smugglers.
Question:
What is your opinion as to the new license
system? What method do you suggest?
Rin Ken Do:
No licenses (new) should be given and smokers
should be corrected in their habit by medical
treatment.
uestion:
What is the amount of expense for medical
treatment?
Rin Ken Do:
According to investigations in 1928 there are
1,l18 physicians in Taiwan. If each physician
will take care of 24 patients 25,000 smokers
can receive medical treatment. Two months
will be required for the treatment which will
involve a cost of yen 30 for the medicine
required by each patient.
(In this connection it may be pointed out that the Taiwan
Government Hospitals specializing in the cure of narcotic
addicts estimate that the daily cost of food and treatment
averages at approximately yen 3.00 for 3rd class patients,
the class embracing the majority of addicts. These hospitals
estimate that the length of time required to cure the average
addict is from 30 to 40 days.)
Question:
Any restriction as to age?
Rin Ken Do:
Young men can be cured in a comparatively short
time, but it will not be easy to cure persons
over 50 years of age.
Question:
How many members have you?
Rin Ken Do: We have 800 members and 17 branohes.
The other group of Formosan-Chinese, representing
complete accord with the policy and plan of the Taiwan Govern-
ment General, consisted of Messrs. Rin Yu Cho, wealthy land-
owner and merohant, Kyo Hei, influential business man, and
Ko Ken Ei, wealthy rice and sugar merchant. The following
questions and answers give the gist of the interview.
Question:
What is your opinion regarding the gradual
prohibition polioy of the Taiwan Government?
Answer:
The polioy is very good.
Question:
What do you think about the new license system?
Answer:

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
mer:
It is good too. The purpose of the new system
is to grant licenses to only heavy addiots
whose smoking of opium cannot be stopped
without affecting their life. It is against
humanity to forbid smoking in the case of
addicts whose life will be affected by total
abstention. The new system is therefore proper.
We desire that the Government examine all
smokers whether licensed or not for the
purpose of correcting their habits whereever
possible. We approve of the new system as the
Government will put slight addicts in a
hospital for the purpose of correcting their
habits.
uestion:
What do you think of the future?
Answer:
The number of smokers will decrease. Thus
far the Covernment has granted licenses three
times and every time the number of smokers has
deoreased. The smokers have decreased from
160,000 to a very small number at nresent.
Question:
How long will it be before there will be no
smokers?
Answer:
Opium smokers can be compared toa swelling or
a boil. A swelling is cure by pressing out
the pus, and in Taiwan the pus has been pressed
out three times. Therefore, the swelling will
be cured in due course. ost of the smokers
are over 40 years old and in 20 or 30 years
there will be no more smokers. It is necessary
that secret smoking be strictly dealt with
hereafter.
uestion:
Are there smokers besides those who have applied
for lioenses under the new system?
Answer:
There are still a small number of secret smokers
who have not yet applied for licenses for the
sake of their reputation.
Question:
Are there smokers among young men below 25 years
of age? Are outdoor sports effective in preventing
smoking?
Answer:
The out-door sports are effective. There is a
Federal Athletio Association in Taihoku for
encouragement of sports such as tennis, baseball,
eto. This is one of the indireot policies of
oheoking and preventing opium smoking.
Question:
What do you think about total prohibition?
Answer:
Total prohibition is very difficult. The Chinese
Government failed many times and even went to
war on account of opium.
Question:
Are such narootios as morphine, cocaine and
heroin used in Taiwan?
Answeri
They are used to a limited extent, but the
quantity used is very small as compared with
China.
Questioni

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
stion:
What classes smoke opium?
Answer:
All classes of people smoke opium.
In analysing the statements made to the Commission it
must be remembered that the Minshuto delega tes represent
an organization which can find little good in any policy
or undertaking of the Covernment while the other group
of Formosan-Chinese represent a alass whioh is wholeheartedly
in favor of the entire ad inistration of the Government,
whatever the reasons for the support.
What the findings or the Commission regardinc the
control of opium and narcotics in Taiwan will be, one
cannot prognostioate. It is fairly certain that the Govern-
ment did not show or inform the Commission beyond that which
the Government saw fit. It is also certain that many un-
biased observers are dubious as to the des ire of the
Commission to see anything beyond the wish of the Government.
In passing it may be mentioned that the Covernment
was criticized for a too lavish entertainment of the
Commission and the Commission was criticized for listening
to the Minshuto.
Evaluation of the Evidence before the Commission.
The case of the Government is presented in some detail
in a booklet, "Opium System and Control of Narcotic Drugs
in Formosa, Japan", published in February 1930. Great
stress is placed on the point that since the installation
of the Opium Monopoly the number of licensed smokers has
decreased to 26,942 at the end of 1928 from 165,752 at the
19262
end of l930. As to seoret smokers it is argued that the
better plan is to grant lioenses to those whose addiction
has reaehed an advanced stage rather than to await gradual
elimination by punishment, corrective measures, death and
other causes. Accordingly the revised Ordinance permits
the issuance of licenses to those persons who have acquired
the

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
me opium habit prior to the coming into effect of the
new Ordinance, all others strietly forbidden to continue
the evil practice under pain of punishment by imprisonment
and oompulsory cure.
Opponents of the opium policy of the Taiwan Govern-
ment General contend that, allowing for the sake of argument
that graduel prohibition in the best polioy, the ract
remains that dainistration has been so ineffeetive as
to stultify any theoretical good. Smuggling is said to be
S0
successful thet recictering for
license under the
11eW
plan is purely an cconomic yuestion, i.c., why should a
secret smoker undertake to register and to risk possible
punishment in order to procure (overnment opium at 44 sen
a momme when smuggled opium is readily obtainable at 65 sen
a momme. In this connection it is stated that smuggled
opium is stronger than Goveriment opium nd ihat a umoker
licensed for 1 momme a day can cet along very comfortebly
with t momme of smuggled opium per day. Another glaring
fault in the present scheme of administration is the lack
of cheek on the retail dealers who are said to deal in
adulterated Government opium nd smuggled opium as well
as in Govermnont opium. It would be comparatively easy
for the Taiwan Government to adopt a oheck system similar
to those in use in the Dutch East Indies and the Straits
Settlements, whereby a secret chemical indicator is mixed
with the prepared opium which enables the Government to
say positively from an examination of the ash whether or
not the opium was pure or adulterated, issued by the
Goverment or smuggled. It is pointed out with consider-
able truth that the gradual prohibition poliey has been in
effeet s0 years and that results do not justify the
pretentious claims of the Taiwan Government - if so why
inaugurate a seheme whioh will set prohibition back 15
years

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
ears as regards the number of licensed smokers and not
eliminate secret smokers.
An evaluation of the evidence available leads one
to believe that the claims and statements of those opposed
to the opium policy of the Government present a truer
picture thon the propaganda of the Government.
It is
doubted that the Government hns, in tie past, bent every
effort to suppress opium audiction and
to
thus cut off a
very fruitful souros of revenue.
It remains
to
be seen
whether the policy outlined for the future will work to-
wards the suppression of narcotic addiction.
Lany are
frankly pessimistic as to the good faith of the Govern-
ment, maintaining that what litvle good will be accomplished
by reason of the publicity thrown on the situation will be
nullified as
soon as that same publiciiy is removed. The
new Ordinance contains many gool features, as for instance,
much heavier punishment for illegal addicts and illicit
dealing, enforoed hospitalization, etc. If certain evils
or faults in administration are corrected the Goverment
oan, undoubtedly, confound these pessimists and accomplish
what it has fa iled to accomplish in the past.
The establishment of a Narcotio Bureau served by
officers trained in the narcotic problem and devoting
their energies to that question alone is absolutely
essential to the suooessful suppression of drug addiotion.
Narootios other than opium.
The question of morphine, cocaine or heroin addiction
has very little significance in the problem of eddietion
in Taiwan. The production of theze drugs in Taiwen has,
however, a weightier sigmificance inasmuch as a vast amount
of suoh narcoties finds its way to China and to Chinese
addicts.
There is a considerable production of cocaine in the
monopoly

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
mopoly Bureau from coco leaves produced in the south
of Taiwan. (This office will probably be able to obtain
produotion figures at a later date). It is officially
denied that there is any morphine or heroin produced in
the Monopoly Bureau but close observers are somewhat dubious
as to the value of this denial. If there is no production
of morphine and heroin it is queried as to the disposition
of the opium residue. It is true that the Sankyo Drug
Company of Osaka is receiving small shipments of residue
but in no where near the amount that must remain after
smoking opium, for consumption in Taiwan, has been prepared.
It can be conservatively estimated that this residue contains
from 3 to 5 peroent morphine (morphia) which represents
an income to the Monopoly Bureau over and above the sale
of prepared opium.
If the Sankyo Drug Company, which succeeded the Hoshi
Company as the morphine manufacturing connection of the
Monopoly Bureau, is receiving only small amounts of opium
residue and there is no local manufacture of morphine, the
Monopoly Bureau must be considerably embarrassed by large
stocks of very valuable opium residue.
Miscellaneous matter.
The attached publication contains a discussion of the
Government's opium poliey together with the tert of the
laws and ordinances recently enacted. It is considered
more advisable to attaoh the publieation to this report
than to embody the material in the report.
As of possible interest copies of two documents presented
to this offiee by the Minshuto Party are attached. These
copies as well as the translations of the speeches and
testimony appearing in this report are true copies of the
material presented - no changes in language, gramer, and
spelling

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
pelling having been made.
Sources of Information.
In formulating this report many souroes of information
were consulted. The publication referred to above; inter-
views with Mr. Ishii, Chief of the Federal Police and
Hygienie Bureau; Dootor To So-Mei, one-time delegate to a
Narcotic Conference in the United States; Doctor Shimpjo,
Direotor of the Government's lospital for the cure of addicts;
Doctor Robert MoClure, acting head of the MoKay Memorial
hospital; Doctor Sho I Sui, ember of the Central Executive
Committee of the Minshuto, Sai Shiki Koku, advisor to the
Minshuto; interviews with numerous persons interested in the
opium problem; various 1tems appearing in the looal press.
Care has been taken to consult not only those representing
the Government's policy and those opposed to the policy
but also persons in a neutral position.
Enclosures: Government Publioation. "Opium System
and Control of Narcotic Drugs in
Formosa (Taiwan), Japan - Copies to
Embassy and Department.
True copies of doouments submitted
by the Minshuto.
811.4
CSR:TKH
Original to Embassy, Tokye.
Copy to Department of State.
Copy to Department - For the
Files of the Commercial Offiee.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
A true ompy of
the nigned rik
inal.
SKd4

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
-1-
THE PETITION.
Regarding to the question of opium monopolization.
Taiwan Minshu To
(Formosan Social Democratio Party)
To The Loemue oi lations,
A.
The polioy of special permission for opiem
smoking end its monopolization whioh is adanted by the
Goveriment of bormosa is exaovly te sme  t of Phe
Portuguese Government in Macao.
By taking suoh unoivilized polioy, the lovern-
ment of Formosa under Jananese imnerialism would brand
with cternal infamy the history of humanity.
Towever ontum has beeu monooolized under the
name of hmanity by the apanese overiment since 1895
when Japan oceuvied Formosa. but in fact the government
has convet very much un just profit from this mononolization
of onim since.
Thus t le Governnert hon itountionally deeper ued
the physioal constitution of the peonle and corrupted
our racial character. We car prove by the following
statements acoording to the statistios of " Government
undertaking of mcnenolize cion " tund Condil tons in
Formosa ". The former 1s published by the authorition
of the Formosan Government.
FINANCTAL DHCOTE AD MOKERS OF OPIUM.
Yeare.
Totel of ingume
No. of mosere.
1897
 1,640,210
50,597
1902
3,009,311
143,492
1907
4,470,585
115,165
1012
5,265,405
87,371
1916
7,153,265
66,847
1921
7,809,870
44,922
1986
4,195,487
31,450
1927
3,919,980
26,042
1928
3,624,280
26,942
From

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
From the above s ta tements it shows that though
the number of opium smokers in 1926 is about equal to
a quarter of it in 1907, it is romarkable that the profits
in the year 1907 and 192s sre almout nearly the same about
rod 4,000,000 Y
his i
irased
rlve of opiu tre year to year i
orde
ciai. t cin
financial income.
Prom thae point et,et
to nave no considerntion ro  o le
118
11
they do not even try to prevent tie dcere se or socret opium
smokers since thcr l908, everthelese
one and the
covernment of lormo:n exterlly cbendal ed i c c icy of
permitting opium snokirt, but or the other cnd, they have
raised therice of ir e e lt l e  e soret opium
smokcrs i oroer to recover their financial difficulties.
The  par ere uthorities
f ccrse aow very well
that the League of ations has strongly advocated to prohibite
opium svoking among the si materies and Japan hers li is also
one of the treaty powers according to the international
apreosont. ut they willrully hesir to permit our people
to smoke opium nowecoys.
That is to say, the Government of Tormosa
encourages our people to tasto the homicidal poison, and so
it appears like an act of delibration.
Not long ago, the Government of Formose convassed
for new smokers just before the revision of the opium ordinanoe
in January this year, but there were very few applioant who
applied for the new license.
.
Owing to the above condition, the Covernment was
very disappointed and in order to supplement the failure
of they attompt to permmitt our people to get now lioense
freely during the period from the 28nd to 29th of December
last

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
last year (1929) in the whole ioland of Formosa.
Such Goverrment political eotion is not only
a sin to the great question of humanity but also a breach
of internationel faith. There are meny non-drinking
countries in the world today nd yet the Japanese govern-
ment unshamely atteapts to ermit our people to smoke
opiun whiclh i. wo wn u y ind of poison.
So we reco nize that the spirit of the Goverment
is undoubttfully iipure md its motive is willfully cruety.
These are the elemental reasone why our party tands to
the left and advooe ted to oppose such dirty tricks of the
Government.
According to the announcement which was siven
out by the Inspeotor Goneral of Police, Ishii, saying
thet "It is impossil le to punieh those secret opium smokers
by strick law under tho revision of opium ordinance from
the stand point of humanity.". Yet in fact It is clear
that the authorities simply have the ambition to get such
unjust profit continously under the name of their so-oalled
merality.
We know that it is hundred times worse than any
kind of punishment, beccuse the result of permmiting our
people to smoke opium freely would be our racial corruption
the decay of the physical body and decreased of national
rinanoe.
We can prove from severel attempts and examples
that the general opium smoker who is imprisoned and prohibited
to amoke becomes very healthy and active efter his ture of
imprisomment. It is also a fact that the acoustomed smoker
can oured perfactly by suitable medical treatment.
Therefore, the strick law is just like a kind of
compulsory medical treatment. So we dare say it is true
that the Government asts without any thought of consequenees
and

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
4
and stands to wrong order, beoause they want to begin to
pemit the new opium smokers instead of prohibiting them.
Although in the same announoement, they say that,
" As a matter of fact, it is also impossible to oure all
of the seoret smokers, simply by punishment under the strick
law. It is very hard too to find out the smokers by the
compulsory disposition.
ut this is to show that the
Goverment of Formosa confess their inerficenoy.
So we can not belleve that tho Government of
Formosa is only inefficont to controi ten shaple opiun
questions for the almighty authorities themself control all
kinds of politioal cases minutely and have preventod the
occurenoes of our raclal rovolution 1895 vince.
From those few points, we can recognized that
the Covermment of Tormose nurely his no faith in our people
and their policy is immorally unoivilized.
We are sure, it is quite casy to exterminate opium
smoking in such e tiny Formosa island as we think it is
not very necessary to enforoe such strick laws to punish
the people but simply can siop making of opium within
certain period of years. If the Covernment has spirit of
sineererity, the general opium smokers or those secret
smokers would decide their mind to give up smoking through
medical treatment or sucessfully deorease their smoking.
On the other hand, the Government should prevent
the smuggling of opium carefully and striokly, for it is
very easy to prevent it because the island of Formosa is
not conneeted with the other continent.
We know that the Japanese Government is absolutely
restritted to allow the mations to mmoke opium aceording
to the intermational treaty obligation, but on one hand they
adepted the system of striek puniskment and on the other
hand

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
-5-
hand they willfully intend to permit the new smokers again
in order to make soheme of caining their monopoly inoomes.
The sum of the matter is, that under the imperilistio
protection and aid of the overiment of ommosa, the Inspector
oneral of
alice,
1
rousor: to be exused
fro p Pecot tr
te tr nd
1
tererore
we know the rel tive
in
uple t the
sudder decreuse  
e can ca. 1l
1.
to the statistics whiowmee
e t or
Formosa, that the con itie onim imeone s kept up to
¥4,000,000 mark durine the 1 ra (190r - 110)
7 in
the year of 191 it we rke  to
000,090
1916 to l91, it contirued nraed n 
7.010.900
ilt
gain 1t decreased to ,000,00
ear
of 1922 Showa ra, 1t docretrd to 4,000,000 and in 1928
it decreased again not ore l al of
700,000 11216
1921) only.
For the examples, the statistios of the total
income of opium mononoly which voe an ounced ly the authority
will be steted as the followi :-
The Year
The total income.
1897
¥1,640,210
1898
3,467,337
1899
4,249,577
1900
4,234,979
1901
2,804,894
1902
3,009,311
1903
3,624,242
1904
3,716,005
1905
4,206,712
1906
4,435,749
1907
4,470,585
1908
4,612,585
1909
4,669,959
1910
4,674,702
1911
5,501,985
1912
5,263,405
1913
5,291,515
1914
5,229,950
1915
5,871,166
1916

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
The Year
The total income.
1916
¥7,133,263
1917
7,971,219
1918
8,107,977
1919
7,644,617
1920
7,849,459
1921
7,809,870
1982
5,449,345
1923
5,022,803
1924
4,634,045
1925
4,412,640
1926
4,193,487
1927
3,919,930
1928
3,624,220
As the above ste tement shows distinetly that the
remarkeble sudden decrease of vpium ineame  ive the chance
to the Government begin to pemir the new smokers because
it is hard to recover the financial ifficulities or opium
income just only by letting alone secret smoking and raise
the prioe of opiun.
In conclution, it may be stated that the Government
of Formosa is regaralese or public opinion and stained the
glory of Japanese Empire. Thus they committed an unpardon-
able sin from the stand point or humanity and  lso against
international faith.
For those reasons, our party have made a strong
protest to the Government of ormosa und Japanese Government
in Tokyo. At tho vame timo we hope our respeotful League
of Nations would give us suificient support, and by your
aid we hope the Government of Formosa would reconsider
about this matter and respeot the strand of publio opinion
of four million Formosen peoples. Finenaly we sincerely
hope that the system of special lioense of opium smoking
would be abolished as soon as possible for the health of
Formosan and for the good of human happiness in the world.
E N Da

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
-1-
The exolanatory
This memorial was prohibited to submit to the Covern-
ment of Formosa and Japan owing to be suppressed by the
chief ofriciel or th. Hither Police Departnent wieh is an
uppressive polltieal or ane uder tt Iitier 1 r ona.
 few d ys o, whe te meetin
1ysici
society wos held, the ohove ut crirter re mlly ette ded
the meeting on made offici l i speetion and severe lnter-
ference.
They said if we went to sub it t ese  e orial to the
Government of Formosa and Japan without any comprehension
from the suthorities, they would not nllow any publication
of the press
"The Formose  tion 1 ress" or "Taiwen
in o in Japanese
whieh i the oly ou lie orean of
our lormosan people in resy rd to the oniw uention.
Under such condition. the Physician Society of Teihoku
city resigned to subrit tno nemorie? to the lovernment of
Formosa.
(The paragraphs which are underlined in the emorial was
especially evaded by the nuthorities.
E
D

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(TRANSLATION COPY.)
Taihoku, Physician Society,
Taihoku, Formosa.
February 10th, 1930.
THE MEMORIAL
Regarding to the question of special permission
for new opium smoking license.
To the Government of Formosa,
Our physician society in Taihoku, Formosa decided
to propose the followine st: te ent to the respective
Formosan Government :-
WE TRULY BELIEVE THAT FROM THE MEDICAI. STAND POINT
OF VIEW, THE G NERAL CUSTOMED OPIUM OMOKERS SURELY CAN
CURED BY A CERTAIN &UITABLE MEDICAL TREATMENT AND WE
RECOGNIZE IT IS VERY INJURIOUS TO THE IIEALTH OF TTHE PEOPLE
THAT PRESENTLY THE GOVERNMENT OF FORMOSA IS ATTEMPTING TO
GIVE A SPECIAL PERMIS ION FOR THE
NEW OPIUM SMOKERS
WHO
WERE
THE SECRETS BEFORE.
NEEDLESS TO SAY, WE SICERELY OPE THE AUTHORITIES
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF FORMOSA WOULD BE CURE TO TAGE THE
CIRCUMSPECTIVE CONSIDERATION FOR UCH IMPORTANT QUESTION
AND WE EXPECT TTE GOVERNMENT WOULD NOT CARRY ITS ATTEMPT
GO INTO EFFECT.
The reasons for nemorial
We know very well that opium is extreemly poison
to the human physioal body and it would spoil the national
character and constitution. Therefore it is very necessary
to exterminate suoh bad social habit away from this country
as soon as possible.
WE ARE SURE IT IS ABSOLUTELY NO DANGER FOR THE
SMOKERS! LITE IF WE ADAPT A CERTAIN SUITABLE MEDICAL TREATIENT
FOR THOSE ACCUSTOLED SMOKERS WHEN THEY BEED.
AND NO MATTER
THERE ARE HOW MANY HABITUAL SMOKERB WHD HAVE ANY KIND OF
SERIOU

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
BERIOUS DECEASE. WE DO NOT THINK IT IS SO NECESSARY TO
GIVE THEM SPECIAL PERMMISION FOR THEIR SMOKING BECAUSE A
SICKNESS MUST BE TREATED AS A SICKNESS AND IF THE SICKNESS
NEEDS FOR OPIUM AS A MEDICINE.
IT CAN BE GIVEN ACCORDING
TO TIE MEDICAL PRESCRIPTION.
Since from 1897 untill to the ond of last 1929,
although it has been pased more than thirty years nlready
and yet there are still romainning about twenty-seven
thousends opium smokers in Formosa presently. We wonder
that if now the Government of Formosa attempt to permit
the new opium smoking, its ill effects will be appeared
more and the prevention of opium smuggling and extemina-
tion of that would be in vain. Finenaly we shall state
the following few clauses for advising the Government :-
(1) The Government should establisn the course
for reserching the opium questions in every
educational organs suclh as in the primary
school, middle school, higher school and
university eto.
(2) The Government should properga te exhaustively
the harm of opium in order to awake the
general public.
(3) The Government should anounce that how long
the old system of special permmision for
opium amoking would be exsis ted.
(4) The Government should give an aid to those
who have sinoerity to establish the non-smoking
hospital.
(5) The Government should establish the speeial
department in each Government hospital
especially for ouring the opium smokers.
(6) The Govermment should pay attention to those
old opium mokers and must becareful of their
physieal

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
一4
physical conditions and regulate the period of
permmitanoe.
(7) Our physician society in Formosa would not
refuse to do our best and would give an aid
for extermination of opium smoking in Formosa
as well we oan.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
1. History and Outline of Opium System
in Formosa
At the time Formosa came under the rule ofthe Japanese Em-
pire, one of the pressing questions that evoked much public atten-
tion at home and abroad was what measures should be taken for
the control of the habit of opium-smoking prevalent among the is-
landers. Opinion was divided over the question, one party advocat-
ing the immediate suppression of the habit, and another being in
favour of a non-interference policy.
Meanwhile, the absolute prohibition of opium-smoking being the
long established policy of the Japanese Government, and a law pro-
hibiting opium-smoking and regulations providing for punishing those
violating its provisions having been long in effect, the Government
considered it as a matter of course that opium-smoking should ulti-
mately be suppressed in Formosa. Upon in vestigation of the
condition of things obtaining in the island in those early days,
however it was found that a great many islanders had already be-
come hopelessly addicted to the evil habit, so that it was thought
next to impossible to put an end to it all at once.
Accordingly with a humanitarian view to letting those confirm-
ed smokers enjoy their remaining days, the Japanese Government
decided on adopting a system of gradual suppression by recogniting
them as addicts and leaving them alone.
In accord with this decision, the Government General of For-
mosa issued a declaration in February, 1896, to the effect that non
but the Government would be allowed to import opium and the use
of opium would be permitted for medical reasons only to habitual
smokers under certain limitations.
Subsequently in January, 1897, the Government promulgated
the Opium Ordinance for Formosa providing for the total prohibi-
( 1 )

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
tion of opium-smoking and at the same time granting special licenses
to those chronic smokers recognized as such by authorized physi-
cians. It was provided that the licensed smokers would be supplied
with prescribed quantities of prepared opium manufactured by the
Opium Monopoly Bureau and that the opening of opium smoking
rooms and the manufacture and sale of implements used in smoking
should be treated as business requiring special government license.
In April of the same year, the Ordinance was put into force,
and a statement setting forth its essential points was issued to the
general public. At the same time, the Government took up investi-
gation of chronic opium smokers throughout the island, which work
was completed in September 1900.
The total number of licensed smokers registered then reached
as many as 169,064. It was then decided that no more license
should be granted except to such chronic smokers as had been pre-
vented, owing to unavoidable circumstances, from being registered
at the time of general registration. On the other hand, the Gov-
ernment authorities in cooperation with school teachers, police
officials and social welfare workers made every endeavour to bring
home to the public mind the evil of opium-smoking and to prevent
the diffusion of the habit among younger people.
As might be expected, however, the harmful habit that had
gained ground during ages past could not be broken down at a
stroke, and in course of time it was discovered that many people
had contracted it in secret. But in consideration of the fact that it
would entail intolerable trouble upon the police and judiciary
authorities, if punishment had to be meted out to the large host of
offenders, licenses were specially granted to such smokers, with the
result that recognition was given in 1904—1905 to 30,543 and in
1908 to 15,849 people. Since the last mentioned year for more
(2)

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
than a score of years, no license has been granted, and the number
of licensed opium smokers steadily fell off year after year, so that at
the end of 1928 the actual number license-holders stood at slightly
over 27,000.
This policy consistently pursued by the Government of For-
mosa has turned out remarkably successful and the object originally
aimed at may be said to have been practically accomplished, as
clearly borne out by the figures.
In view, however, of the fact that thert were still found from
time to time some secret habitual smokers, and inconsideration of
the enforcement of the Geneva Opium Cunvention of 1925, the
Government of Formosa found it necessary to frame a new policy,
so that stricter control could be exercised over opium smoking and
various relevant matters as well as nothing might be left undone for
making the Convention really effective. By so doing it was desired
more especially to accomplish through prevention and correction of
habitual smoking and to complete absolute suppression of the vice.
Accordingly, in January, 1929, the Government revised the
Opium Ordinance for Formosa by making good wlhatever defects
found in the old system.
In the revised Ordinance, it was made quite clear that licenses
would be specially issued only to those persons who had acquired
opium habit before the new Ordinance came into effect and that all
others should be strictly forbidden to continue the evil practice.
Now according to the old Ordinance, any person who was found
opium-smoking without a license was liable to penal servitude or to
a fine. But in the new Ordinance monetary penalty was abrogated
and punishment by imprisonment only was reserved. This amend-
ment was introduced for no other reason but for curing and prevent-
ing the bad habit with better and quicker effect. Further, it was
(3)

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
provided that in case of necessity, administrative measures should
be taken towards correcting the habit with a view to insuring and
facilitating the complete suppression thereof. It was considered that
if corrective measures only were taken for dealing with those who
had contracted the habit before the revised Ordinance came into
effect, it would be impossible to ascertain the exact number of
addicts  a short time. On the other hand, it was considered that
it would never do to leave the matter of prohibiting and correcting
the opium habit entirely in the hands of the police force and rely on
the effect of punishment only for attaining the object in view, for
such step was not only at variance with the cardinal principle of
humanity but was also not in conformity with the object of the
present Ordinance, not to say it was in fact a matter of impossibility.
One might anticipate that by the time the present Ordinance
achieved its object, when the present licenses would pass out of
existence, secret opium smokers would also have disappeared through
the effect of punishment, corrective measures, death and from other
causes. However, it was not thought to adopt any such policy of
letting things take their course, for it implied the existence of dark
spots in the body of our opium system and could in no sense be
taken as furthering its object, namely the absolute suppression of
the vice.
In view of this situation, simultaneously with the enforcement
of the new Ordinance, the Government decided to grant licenses to
those persons only, whose case was pronounced to be too far ad-
vanced for remedy, but in the case of relatively young smokers and
of those whose habit had not reached an advanced stage, corrective
and remedial measures should to be taken.
Thus it was planned to have the principle of the Ordinance
carried out to the letter as well as to the spirit, so that the Govern
( 4 )

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
ment's efforts in this direction should be crowned in due course of
time with unalloyed success.
The following table shows the decrease in number of licensed
smokers and the diminition in quantity of prepared opium consumed
since the system of gradual suppression was adopted.
Table showing the actual number of licensed opum smokers in For-
mosa at the end of cach year.
Decrease
Percentage
through death,
Index
of licensed
abandonment
number of
Year
Males
Females
Total
smokers to
of the habit,
licensed
entire popu-
and other
smokers
lation
causes
1897
47,688
2,909
50,597
2.1
1898 ..
88,486
6,963
95,449
3.6
1899.
121,602
9,360
130,962
5.0
1900 ...
152,950
12,802
165,752
6.2
3,312
98
1901 ..
145,267
12,352
157,619
5.7
8,133
93
1902
130,149
13,343
143,492
5.0
14,127
85
1903 ...
119,959
12,944
132,903
4.5
10,589
79
1904 ...
123,228
14,724
137,952
4.7
(.)
5,049
82
1905 ...
115,462
15,014
130,476
1.2
7,476
77
1906 ...
107,199
14,131
121,330
4.0
9,146
72
1907 ...
99,883
13,282
113,165
3.7
8,165
67
1908 ...
105,019
14,972
119.991
3.9
(一)
6,826
71
( 5 )

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Decrease
Percentage
through death,
Index
of licensed
abandonment
number of
Year
Males
Females
Total
smokers to
of the habit,
licensed
entire popu-
and other
smokers
lation
causes
1909 ...
96,032
13,923
109,955
3.5
10,036
65
1910.
86,282
12,705
98,987
3.2
10,968
59
1911.
80,947
12,028
92,975
2.9
6,012
55
1912 ...
75,999
11,372
87,371
2.7
5,604
52
1913 ...
71,381
10,747
82,128
2.5
5,243
49
1914 ...
66,840
10,155
76,995
2.3
5,133
46
1915 ...
62,156
9,559
71,715
2.1
5,308
42
1916 ...
57,829
9,018
66,847
2.0
4,868
40
1917.
53,838
8,479
62,317
1.8
4,530
37
1918 ...
48,158
7,614
55,772
1.6
6,546
33
1919 ...
44,890
7,173
52,063
1.5
3,709
31
1920...
41,375
6,637
48,012
1.3
4,052
28
1921..
38,680
6,242
44,922
1.3
3,089
27
1922 ...
36,257
5,851
42,108
1.2
2,814
25
1923 ...
33,965
5,498
39,463
1.1
2,645
23
1924 ...
31,491
5,136
36,627
1.1
2,836
21
1925 ...
29,001
4,754
33,755
0.9
2,872
20
1926 ...
26,983
4,451
31,434
0.8
2,706
18
1927 ...
24,912
4,131
29,043
0.7
2,391
17
1928 ...
23,091
3,851
26,942
0.6
2,101
16
1929.
Notes:
September 1900, was the time when the registration of opium ad.
dicts throughout the island was completed.
Licenses were granted to 30,543 persons in 1904—1905; to 15,847 in
1908
Figures marked with (+) in the column showi g decrease represent
increase consequent upon the new grant of licenses.
The sudden increase in the number of female smokers at the end of
1902 was due to the discovery of errors in statistical reports.
(6)

=== Page 37 === (confidence 1.00)
Table showing the actual number of licenses opium smokers by age.
Above
Above
Above
Above
Above
Year
Under
Total
30
40
50
60
70
1902.
17.693
41,695
44,600
26,263
8,658
1,583
143,492
1903.
13,807
41,567
42,101
25,368
8,580
1,480
132,903
1904.
15,517
43,287
43,511
25,494
8,669
1,474
137,952
1905.
13,986
41,705
40,318
24,224
8,681
1,562
130,476
1906.
11,932
38,304
37,706
22.942
8,778
1,668
121,330
1907.
8,837
31,443
36,072
23,136
9,021
1,656
113,165
1908.
10,323
36,834
37,561
24,331
9,121
1,821
119,991
1909
7,443
33,695
35,419
23,394
8,380
1,631
109,955
1910.
4,524
28,157
33,258
22,556
8,928
1,564
98,987
1911.
3,384
24,641
31,560
22,837
8,923
1,650
92,975
1912.
2,615
21,110
30,748
22,270
8,907
1,721
87,371
1913.
1,598
17,743
30,007
21,731
9,102
1,947
82,128
1914.
1,260
15,138
28,422
21,37.
8,890
1,913
76,995
1915.
880
12,586
27,237
20,385
8,721
1,906
71,715
1916.
620
10.687
25,091
19,864
8,653
1,932
66,847
1917
147
8.771
23,391
19,312
8,724
1,842
62,317
1918.
98
5,527
20,077
18,750
8,993
2,327
55,772
1919
12
3,669
18,054
18,335
9,525
2,468
52,063
1920.
10
2,333
15,457
17,816
9,691
2,675
48,012
1921.
7
1,906
14,077
17,075
9,307
2,550
44,922
1922.
3
1,526
12,470
16,586
9,078
2,445
42,108
1923.
2
1,199
11,020
16,089
8,649
2,504
39,463
1924.
一
690
9,068
15,602
8,738
2,529
36,627
1925.
341
6,767
14,986
8,888
2,773
33,755
1926.
197
5,328
14,061
8,880
2,968
31,434
1927
36
3,888
12,996
9,978
3,145
29,043
1928.
5
2,894
11,777
8,985
3,281
26,942
1929.
Notes: Figures for the year prior to 1901 have been omitted in the above
table owing to lack of material for correcting errors found in the
relevant statistics.
(7)

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Table showing the number of Chinese subjects who obtained licenses
at the end of the year.
Year
Males
Females
Total
1905.
789
6
597
1906.
838
9
847
1907.
762
10
772
1908.
872
12
881
1909.
932
16
918
1910.
978
17
995
1911.
947
16
963
1912.
964
20
984
1913.
1,021
29
1,050
1914.
1,153
31
1,184
1915.
1,311
38
1,349
1916.
1,811
118
1,929
1917.
2,671
148
2,819
1918.
2,737
206
2,943
1919.
2,121
181
2,302
1920.
912
108
1,020
1921.
815
95
910
1922.
736
81
817
1923.
642
60
702
1924.
601
37
658
1925.
550
51
601
1926.
496
52
548
1927.
452
41
493
1928.
399
7
436
1929.
Note:
For several years after the Opium Ordinance was put in force,
opium smoking licenses were not granted to Chinese subjects resi-
dent in Formosa. However, in the year 1904 when it was found
that the opium system had been placed on a firm basis, the Govern-
ment auhtorities, seeing that the demand for Chinese labourers in-
creased with the rise of productive industries throughout the island,
decided to grant licenses to Chinese residents valid for a period of
twelve months only and renewable each year.
This system was discontinued in 1921 in view of the fact that
an Opium Control Act had been promulgated in China. An exten-
sion of grace is, however, allowed for the time being to those only
who had previously been granted licenses.
( 8 )

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Table showing the amount and value of Prepared Opium sold.
Amount of prepared opium sold (kg)
Índex
number
Year
calculated
Value
First
Second
Third
on basis of
Total
grade
grade
grade
sale in 1900
Yen
1897
1,014
7,331
42,845
51,190
930,316
1898
2,370
23,051
134,102
159,523
3,434,776
1899
3,047
13,584
151,242
197,873
4,480,122
一
1900
11,194
51,160
138,573
200,927
100
4,673,868
1901
17,876
24,088
95,528
137,492
68
3,542,952
1902
22,881
10,919
92,894
126,694
63
3,191,763
1903
41,862
2,222
95,146
139,230
69
3,730,923
1904.
54,106
166
93,247
147,519
73
4,129,901
1905
66,965
65
90,834
157,864
79
4,627,786
1906
84,126
49
70,914
155,089
77
4,914,742
1907
95,639
1
45,482
141.122
72
4,852,890
1908
107,258
35,394
142,652
71
5,126,342
1909
101,860
45,750
117,610
74
5,123,130
1910
84,381
28.273
112,659
57
5,299,097
1911
80,218
21.093
101,311
51
5,707,486
1912
86,146
19.218
105,394
53
6,027,837
1913
85,247
16,99;
102,243
51
5,886,399
1914.
83,803
14,050
97,853
49
5,683,863
1915.
87.614
10,984
98,598
49
5,800,723
1916
93,758
7,895
101,653
51
6,590,153
1917
84.470
49,81
89,451
41
6,924,376
1918
83,022
2,777
85,799
43
7,552,245
1919
73,036
1,262
71,298
37
7,619,411
1920
65,224
627
65,851
33
7,708,235
( 9 )

=== Page 40 === (confidence 1.00)
Amount of prepared opium sold (kg)
Index
number
Year
calculated
Value
First
Second
Third
on basis of
Total
grade
grade
grade
sale in 1900
Yen
1921
57,391
439
57,831
29
6,772,614
1922
53,328
296
53,624
27
6,283,277
1923
47,914
213
48,127
24
5,640,665
1924
44,039
190
44,229
22
5,184,035
1925
41,812
178
41,990
21
4,921,668
1926
40,082
154
40,236
20
4,716,575
1927
37,204
119
37,323
19
4,375,774
1928
34,970
34,970
184,103,960
Notes: In the above table, no entry of the second grade preparation is
made after the year 1907, and the third preparation is not entered
in 1928. This is because of the discontinuance of the sale of the
goods.
That the figures representing value do not keep place with the
decrease in amount is accounted for by rise in price.
2. Outline of Control of Opium.
As stated above, after the policy of suppression of opium
smoking was instituted, the people in general in the island have been
strictly forbidden to smoke opium, with the exception of those who
have been found on medical examination to be incurably addicted
to the vice. Dealing in opium was made a moropoly business of
the Government, the production, manufacture and consumption
thereof being placed under the control of the Government. The
control of opium is provided for in the Opium Ordinance and in the
Regulations for the Enforcement of the Ordinance, and the police
authorities take responsibility for seeing to it that the Ordirace and
the Regulations are put into execution. Prepared opium is delivered
to licensed smokers only through channels under Government con-
(10)

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
trol, no other persons being allowed to buy, sell, or deliver the
article. In this way the Government authorities concerned are doing
all that is possible to check the possible spread of the harmful habit.
As central organ for the control of opium, a sanitary section is
established in the Government-General of Formosa, charged with
superintendence of the business throughout the island. As local
organs each provincial, district, and municipal office has in its
service officials in charge of sanitary affairs whose duty it is to
control opium in their localities, while police officials stationed in
the country districts stand, so to speak, on the front in the battle
against opium, are directly concern d in the work of control.
Thus though the measures taken for the control of illicit pro-
duction and for the manufacture of opium by the Government leave
nothing to be desired, the Government authorities are always beset
of difficulties in exercising control over the smuggling of the goods
from China. Ways and means resorted to by smugglers are, as
told later on, exceedingly ingenious and scarcely be completely
brustrated. Such being the case, the number of opium addicts who
had contracted the harmful habit through secret smoking has
never been on the wane. In view of this, as already said, the
Government authorities promulgated the revised Opium Ordinance
for Formosa in January, 1928, inaugurating a new policy for check-
ing the spread of the evil habit by controlling the addicts them-
selves. The following is the outline of the measures being taken
for control.
1. Recognization of Opium Addicts and Rationing
of Opium For Smoking.
At the time the Opium system was put into operation for the
first time in carrying out investigation of opium smokers the
(11)

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
authorities found it a very difficult undertaking to examine them
closely one by one in different stages of development of the habit
and to determine addicts on the basis of scientific inspection. Not
only that, but it was feared that if such steps were taken the
materialization of the opium policy would be delayed and in
addition it was deemed neccessary for making the control effective
to bring within the pale of control such smokers of opium as,
though not medically recognized as addicts, the authorities, upon
investigation considered it as fit to treat as those habituated to the
vice.
To each of them, then, the authorities prescribed the amount of
prepared opium for use after having ascertained on the basis of
examination by physicians the stage of development of individual
cases.
Subsequently the amount prescribed for each smoker was
changed in many cases after administrative inspection. This step
was taken because it was thought that the correctness or no of the
prescribed amount had a far-reaching effect upon the spread of the
evil practice as well as upon the control of unlawful sale of opium.
In recent years, as a first step, strict administrative investigation
is made throughout the island with regard to the matter of secret
smoking, and those found to be indulging in it are quartered in an
appointed place for an adequate length of time, during which they
are subjected to a series of medical examinations for ascertaining the
stage of development of their cases.
The following table gives the numbers of licensed smokers as
classified according to amounts prescribed :
(12)

=== Page 43 === (confidence 1.00)
Table Showing Numbers of Lincensed Smokers as classified accord-
ing to Amount-Prescribed.
(At the end of Sept. 1929.)
Amount prescribed
Number
Less than 1 momme
14,599
More than 1 momme &
less than 2 momme
8,858
More than 2 momme &
less than 3 momme
1,313
More than 3 momme &
less than 4 momme
335
More than 4 momme &
less than 5 momme
1.40
More than 5 momme
83
Total
25,528
2. Manufacture, Sale, and Consumption
of Prepared Opium.
Prepared Opium is manufactured at the Government Monopoly
Factory, and is delivered to licensed smokers through two monopoly
organs, viz., wholesale dealers in prepared opium appointed by local
Governors and retail dealer in prepared opium who have obtained
licenses therefor from local Governors. In regard to the sale, pur-
chase and delivery of prepared opium that are carried on amongest
the monopoly organs themselves, or between them and licenses smok-
ers, and also in regard to the consumption of opium by licensed
smokers, the following restrictions are provided with a view to
preventing unlawful transactions and illicit consumption.
1. Restrictions imposed upon wholesale dealers in prepared
opium.
( 13)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 1.00)
a) A wholesale dealer in prepared opium shall not sell
prepared opium to any retail dealer or his representative
bearing a police certificate declaring him to be such, unless
he produces a license authorizing him to carry on retail
sale of prepared opium.
b) A wholesale dealer in prepared opium shall keep a
book and enter therein every time he sells prepared opium
the quantities and prices of the goods sold, and the name
and address of the retail dealers to whom he has sold it.
c) A wholesale dealer in prepared opium shall not sell
prepared opium in partition.
d) A wholesale dealer in prepared opium shall not sell
prepared opium in any other place than that approved by
the Government.
2. Restrictions imposed upon retail dealers in prepared opium.
a) A retail dealer in prepared opium shall not sell pre-
pared opium to any licensed opium smoker, or his repre-
sentative carrying a police certificate declaring his identity,
unless he produces his license for opium smoking and his
purchase pass-book.
b) When a retail dealer sells prepared opium to license
smoker, he shall examine the latter's license and purchase
pass-book and shall not sell to the purchaser any quantity
exceeding his portion for three days, including the amount
of prepared opium he is lawfully entitled to possess.
In special circumstances one may be allowed to have such
an amount as has been approved by the police.
c) A retail dealer shall enter, in the purchase pass-book
presented by a licensed smoker, the quantity and price of
the prepared opium delivered to him and the date of the
(14)

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
sale, together with his name and address.
d) A retail dealer in prepared opium shall keep a book
and enter therein every time he buys or sells prepared
opium the quantities and prices of the prepared opium he
has bought or sold so that the amounts of the prepared
opium received and disposed of may clearly be known.
e) A retail dealer in prepared opium shall not sell pre-
pared opium in any other place than that approved by the
Government.
3. Restrictions imposed upon licensed smokers.
a) A licensed smoker of prepared opium shall not buy or
possess any quantity ofprepared opium exceeding his por-
tion for three days. If he is in special circumstances, he
may be allowed to buy or possess such amount as is per-
mitted by the police.
b) When a licensed smoker of prepared opium desires to
buy prepared opium, he shall present his license and pur-
chase pass-book to a retail dealer and shall have the quan-
tity and price of the prepared opium he has bought and the
date of purchase, and the name and address of the retail
dealer duly entered in the book.
c) A licensed smoker of prepared opium shall not be
allowed to consume any amount of prepared opium ex-
ceeding the prescribed amount for daily use, nor to smoke
in company of nonlicensed persons except his own family
member.
The raw opium required for the manufacture of prepared opium
is mainly imported from Persia, Turky and India. Experiments
were once made for growing the poppy in Formosa, but no figures
are available for statistics. The followingtable shows the quantities
of raw opium imported and prepared opium m anufactured as classi-
fied according to years :
(15)

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
Quantities of Raw Opiun Imported and of Prepared Opium Manu-
factured.
uaes or
-pum nido
Quantities of raw opium imported (kg)
rered
actured
Year
Indian
Persian
Turkish
Chinese
Others
Total
opium
opium
opinm
opium
(kg)
From April, 1896
To March, 1897
21,697
106,227
16,289
611
144,824
211
1897
”
1898
87,620
9
45
87,674
123,992
”
1898
”
1899
145,928
3,011
260
149,199
188,783
”
1899
”
1900
229,923
3,162
1,169
234,554
216,913
”
1900
1901
27,000
161,906
9,340
198,246
207,718
”
1901
”
1902
27,600
118,445
65
146,110
119,628
”
1902
”
1903
48,000
83,488
131,488
113,735
”
1903
”
1904
69,600
63,866
133,466
152,377
”
1904
”
1905
58,800
63,026
121,826
148,277
”
1905
”
1906
91,800
40,069
40,536
14,944
37
187,387
160,279
”
1906
”
1907
100,220
35,141
56,362
27,225
218,948
157,372
，”
1907
”
1908
102,000
90,852
225
193,077
138,938
”
1908
”
1909
72,051
85,549
307
157,907
158,083
”
1909
”
”
1910
47,982
90,789
3,375
142,146
152,204
1910
”
”
1911
31,200
36,445
70,783
138,428
96,870
1911
”
”
1912
31,500
47,300
5,690
84,490
107,676
1912
”
1913
72,000
59,545
5,053
136,597
106,119
1913
”
”
1914
38,740
58,088
14,605
131,433
102,131
1914
”
”
1915
59,999
43,753
8,158
3
111,913
97,423
(16)

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
Quantities of raw opium imported (kg)
Year
Indian
Persian Turkish
Chinese
Others
Total
opium
opium
opium
opium
do
(kg)
From April, 1915
To March, 1916
64,800
40,678
2,021
53
107,552
100,460
1916
”
1917
59,400
66,200
197
125.797
110,027
”
1917
”
1918
68,580
50,838
97
119,515
93,255
”
1918
”
1919
78,060
21,367
39
99,466
91,037
”
1919
”
1920
32,995
41,792
57,075
480
135,342
70,835
1，
1920
”
1921
9,000
40,970
76,472
319
126,761
69,939
”
1921
”
1922
6,000
11,958
3,944
83
21,985
47,978
”
1922
”
1923
3,000
23,153
46,287
91
72,530
48,780
”
1923
”
1924
9,000
22.182
26,320
39
57,841
52,653
”
1924
”
1925
3,000
53,598
1,805
58,403
39,847
”
1925
”
1926
7,500
12.742
11,806
62,048
43,005
”
1926
”
1927
7,130
3,781
10,911
36,711
”
1927
1928
14,246
14,246
35,686
1928
”
1929
21,374
21,374
34,244
”
Notes: Opium for medicinal purposes is under the control of the Opium
Ordinance for Formosa along with prepared opium. But as it is
treated as one of narcotic drugs, no mention thereof is made here.
3. Control of Trading in Opium.
Wholesale dealers in prepared opium, who constitute part of
the organs of the opium monopoly business, are appointed by local
(17)

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
Governors while prospective retail dealers in prepared opium are
required to obtain permits from local Governors. In doing their
business they are subject to restrictions mentioned above.
The police officials are authorized to inspect their business
quarters at intervals and to examine all their books and to observe
their business conditions. If any of them is found acting in vio a-
tion of the regulations, he shall be rigorously dealt with, and,
if deemed necessary, he shall have his business suspended or
prohibited.
In this way, every possible measure of control is taken so that
people connected with opium business can have no chance for acting
dishonestly in the conduct of their business. The following table
shows the number of persons engaged in opium business at the end
of each year :
in
Persons licensed to engage in opium business
Whrs
reium
Nu r rum
smne
éta in
repaium
Mat and
piing
al  le
ed i
Stnt
Year
busness
es in
moking
pnts
Smoing
es in
owred
etail
opium
Total
1897..
36
1,979
7
45
258
5
2,294
21
1898...
49
2,695
6
49
259
4
3,013
35
1899...
64
3,045
8
40
242
4
3,339
43
1900...
67
2,766
8
33
218
3
3,028
60
1901...
59
1,341
5
26
160
1,534
118
1902...
65
991
7
20
121
3
1,142
145
1903..
67
872
7
22
112
3
1,016
152
1904...
68
858
9
26
104
2
999
161
1905...
68
899
22
32
93
2
1,048
146
(18)

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
in
Persons licensed to engage in opium bnsiness
Nu   piu
h rs
repardium
m ne
re m
t i
 n
smokking
staints
ale
Year
usess
ea i
smoing
_pnts
ing
in
owred
Retail
eer
opium
Total
piumo
1906...
69
887
29
33
90
2
1,041
137
1907...
72
889
25
33
90
2
1,039
127
1908...
72
880
30
31
81
2
1,027
136
1909...
72
888
32
37
73
2
1,033
127
1910...
73
847
26
34
64
2
973
117
1911...
67
824
26
35
60
2
947
113
1912...
68
813
27
34
59
2
935
107
1913...
67
794
21
33
61
71
914
103
1914...
69
762
23
34
58
2
979
101
1915...
68
739
22
33
61
2
857
97
1916...
66
701
23
29
58
6
817
95
1917...
66
674
22
28
62
7
793
92
1918...
68
648
19
27
54
7
755
87
1919...
68
628
17
26
51
1~
729
83
1920...
69
604
16
26
47
1-
700
79
1921...
67
576
13
21
39
14
663
78
1922...
63
554
13
21
51
7
646
76
1923...
61
533
11
25
41
8
618
74
1924...
60
513
11
24
37
9
591
71
1925...
62
509
10
21
37
9
589
68
1926...
59
492
10
21
35
9
567
65
1927...
58
468
10
20
32
9
539
63
1928...
55
447
9
18
31
9
514
61
1929...
Notes : Opium smoking establishments, were abolished altogether in 1928.
4. Control of Smuggling of Opium.
Attempts at Smuggling opium into the island are made for the
purpose of supplying it to secret smokers.
The smugglers are
(19)

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
chiefly Chinese sailors and merchants who secretly bring in the
goods through Keelung, Takao, Anping, Rokko and some other
ports on the west coast by means of Chinese junks.
A few examples of the ingenious ways and means resorted to
by opium smugglers are given below.
1. As to the method of carrying opium on board a vessel, it
is concealed in some part of its sides or some other place,
which is lined double and is not easily noticeable. Often
opium properly packed is suspended from the rudder or
the full below the water-line and is sunk deep by means of
a weight attached thereto, so that it docs not float up.
Such clever devices make the ordinary procedure of
inspection of a vessel carrying the prohibited goods quite
ineffective.
2 As to the method of landing, after official inspection has
been made the smugglers mix up opium with other goods,
or land it by means of sampan under cover of darkness.
Oftentimes, a vessel carrying opium casts anchor far away
in the offing, and the smugglers calling a small boat along-
side it by signalling with lights or other means deliver it
into the hands of their accomplices by pre-arranged
methods.
3. After landing, the smugglers conceal opium for the time
being by burying it deep in the sand along the beach or
put the goods in trust in the hands of those who are likely
to escape the eye of the police. Later on, when circum-
stances warrant no fear of being detected, they transport
or sell the contraband goods.
Persons engaged in the traffic of smuggled opium seem to have
and observe a code of honour of their own and to be pledged to
(20)

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
absolute secrecy, so that the rounding of smugglers is, in most
cases, attendant upon cases of secret sale and purchase being
discovered and taken up.
Purchasers never tell the truth about the name or address of
the sellers, invariably declaring that they have bought the goods
from Chinese of whose name or address they know nothing. In
these circumstances, detection of the offence of smuggling is far
more difficult that of other crimes.
But as the control of smuggling is the precursor of the control
of secret smokers, the police officials in collaboration with the
Customs authorities are taking special pains to eradicate it. For
doing so, all in-coming vessels are inspected as a matter of course
and a careful watch is kept on the doings and movements of
suspicious ships and crews. When a smuggling case is found, the
officials in charge at once report it to the Government, giving in
detail the name, address and age of th smuggler, imformation
concering the vessel carrying the contraband goods, the method of
smuggling and other noteworthy paticu ars. Meanwhile the case is
communicated to local Governments so that the central and local
police force may act in coordination against smuggling. In this
respect the Police Affairs Department of the Central Government is
constantly at work for collection and arrangement of information
from all sources regarding smuggling for giving assistance and
instruction to the local authorities in regard to the control of the
offence. The following table shows the number of cases of
smuggling that have been taken up during last five years:
(21)

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
Number
Quantities
Supposed
Description of
Year
of
smuggled
country
Remarks
Opium
cases
(kg)
of origin
1924
68
Prepared opium
226
Ghina
2
Raw opium
73
”
”
1925
99
Prepared opium
269
”
2
Raw opium
2
”
”
1926
102
Prepared opium
548
”
2
Raw opium
1
”
”
1927
103
Prepared opium
696
”
3
Raw opium
15
”
”
1928
113
Prepared opium
1,479
”
7
Raw opium
37
”
1929
5. Control of Secret Smoking of Opium.
Seeing that the accomplishment of the aim of the system for
suppressing opium smoking lies in the successful control of secret
smoking, the Government authorities are doing all that is possible
to realize it by acting in all quarters.
In fact all measures of control stated in the preceding
paragraphs are intended for cutting off the supply of opium to
secret smokers. As a direct measure of controlling unlicensed
smokers, old offenders and those suspected by the police of being
guilty of clandestine smoking are placed together under police
surveillance. From time to time, police officials inspect them, in
order that they may be restrained from forming the habit of opium
smoking. The number of persons prosected for offences relating to
secret smoking during last five years is given below :—
(22)

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
Formosans
Japanese
Chinese
Total
Year
Ée les
e les
Ée les
eles
Males
Males
les
les
Total
T ota
Tota
Tota
x
1924.
1,135
218
1,353
1
1 137
9 146
1,273 227
1,500
1925
1,113
201 1,314
133
133 1,246201
1,447
1926
1,022
192
1,214
133
6 139
1,155
198
1,353
1927
1,009
211
1,220
2
2 141
4 145 1,152 215
1,367
1928
Note:
The figure marked with x represents a Korean subjects of the
Empire.
(23)

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
ANNEXED LAWS AND REGULATIONS
Opium Ordinance of Formosa.
(Revised in 1929 in accordance with the provisions of the
International Convention concluded in Geneva in1925).
ARTICLE 1.—In application of the present Ordirance the tern
"Opium" means raw opium, prepared opium and medicina!
opium.
ARTICLE 2.—No opium shall be smoked except when an opium
addict who had contracted the habit previous to the coming
into force of the Ordinance and who obtained the special
permit from the Governor-General, smokes opium which is
sold by the Government-General.
ArTicLE 3.—The manufacture of opium and sale of prepared and
medicinal opium is carried on by the Government-General.
No instrument for smoking opium shall be manufactured
unless it is permitted by the Government-General.
ArticLE 4.—No opium or the instruments for smoking opium shall
be imported or exported except when it is done in accordance
with any one of the following provisions :
1. When the Government-General imports opium.
2. When medicinal opium is exported in accordance with the
provision of the Government Order.
3. When raw opium or medicinal opium is transhipped in
Formosa or in transit through Formosa with a destination
outside of Formosa with the certificate issued by the
(24)

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
Government of the importing country and is recognised
that it is not directed for the purpose of illicit use.
ArTicLE 5.--No opium or instrument for smoking opium shall be,
without permit issued by the Governor-General, sold or bought,
given or taken, or possessed or held except when it comes
under any one of the following provisions :
1. When the wholesale agent of prepared opium or the re-
tailer of prepared opium sells or buys, gives or takes or
possesses or holds prepared opium.
2. When the manufacturer of the instrument of smoking
opium or its retailer sells or buys, gives of takes, or pos-
sesses or holds the instruments for smoking opium.
3. When the licensed smoker of opium receives, possesses or
holds prepared opium or instrument for smoking opium.
4. When a physician, a dentist, a veterinary surgeon, a drug.
gist, or a manufacturer of drugs, sells or buys, gives or
takes, possesses or holds medicinal opium.
5. When any person receive, possesses, or holds medicinal
opium on the strength of the prescription gives by a
physicians, a dentist, or a veterinary surgeon.
6. When, in accordance with the provision of any one of the
previous clauses, a person who possessed or held prepared
opium, medicinal opium, or instruments for smoking
opium, is no longer being capable to possess or hold them,
or in case no person possesses or holds them, the person,
or the heir or the administrator of the property, hands
them over or possesses or holds them.
AEr CLE 6.—The appointed wholesale ag nt or retailor of the pre-
pared opium shall not work up or mix with other substances the
pr. pared opium.
(25)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
Arricle 7.—No "dross" shall be purchased and sold, given and
taken, or possessed, or held except when it is sold to the Govern-
ment, and except when the "dross" which was accumlated as
the result of smoking opium is possessed or held by the licens-
ed opium smoker.
ArticLE 8.—No opium smoking divan shall be establised or nain-
tained.
ArTicLe 9.—No poppy shall be cultivated for the purpose of n ar u-
facturing opium.
ARTicLE 10.—The Governor-General of Formosa n ay adopt the
necessary measures for the purpose of curing the habit of
opium smoking.
The expenses necessary for enforcing such measures which
are provided for in the previous clause are provided for by an
Order of the Governor-General.
ArticLE 11.—The Governor-General may cause those persors who
obtained the permit in accordance with clause 2 of Art c.e 3 or
who are mentioned in any one of the clauses or Article 5, to
report on those matters which are deemed necessary.
ArTicLE 12.—The Governor-General of Formosa when deen.ed
necessary may cause the competent authorities to enter the
factory, store, or other places of those persons who are men-
tioned in any one of the clauses of Articie 5 and to inspect the
raw material, manufactured artice, instruments, machines,
books and any other object and take such necessary measures
for the control.
ArricLE 13 —Any person guilty of an offence agairst any one of
the following provisions shal be liable to imprisonment with
hard labour for a term not exceeding five years (r to a fire rot
exceeding five thousand yen :
(26)

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
1. Any person manufactures opium.
2. Any person imports and exports opium against the pro-
visions of Article 4.
3. For the purpose of gainful end any persons sells or buys,
gives and takes, possesses or holds opium against the pro-
visions of Article 5.
4. Any person infringes the provisions of Article 8.
5. Any person induces one who is not the licensed opium
smoker, to smoke opium.
ARTicLE 14.—Any person who is not a lcensd opium smoker,
smokes oplum shall be hable to imprisonment with hard labour
for a term not exceeding three years.
Artic 15.—Any person mnty of an o m aganst any one of
the following provisions shan be liablt to inmprisonment with
hard labour for a term not excceding three years or to a fine
not exceeding three thousand yen.
1. Any person infrimges the provisionn of the Clause 2 of
Article 3.
2. Any person imports r exports the mstruments for smoking
opium against the provisions of Art.cle 4.
3. For the purpose of gainful end any persons selis or buys,
gives or takes possesses or holds the instruments for
optum smoking am st tme pros on of Article 5.
4. Any p rson infe the provi ons f Article 6.
5. Any person infe the provisions of Article 9.
Arricir 16. -If any cu (r imports opium or the instru-
ments for opiuragainst the provisions of Article 4 or
aids othersphe shal be liable to imprisonment
with hard labedng seven years, and to
any officer of the  poy who imports opium against the
(27)

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
provisions of Articles 4 or aids others to import it, the above
clause shall be applied.
ArriclE 17.—Any person who attempts to commit an offence which
is provided for in the preceding four articles shall be liable to
punishment.
ARTICLE 18.—Any person guilty of an offence against any one of
the following provisions shall be liable to imprisonment with
hard labour for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not
exceeding the thousand yen.
1. Any licensed opium smoker smokes another opium than
that which is sold by the Government.
2. Without gainful purpose any person sells or buys, gives or
takes, possesses or holds opium of instruments for opium
smoking against the provisions of Article 5.
3. Any person infringes the provisions of Article 7.
ARTIcLE 19.—Any person guilty of an offence against any one of
the following provisions shall be liable to imprisonment with
hard labour for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine
not exceeding five hundred yen.
1. Any person who does not follow the measures which are
provided for by Article 10.
2. Any person who, without just cause, neglects to make the
report which is provided for by the Article 11 or makes
a false report.
3. Without just cause any person who refuses, hinders or
evades the inspection as is provided for by Article 12, or
does not give the answer to the question or gives a false
explanation or otherwise does not follow the measures
taken by the competent authorities as is provided for by
the same Articles cited above.
(28)

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
ArticLE 20.—Opium, poppies, or opium dross or instruments for
opium smoking which belong to or are possessed by a person
who is guilty of an offence against the provisions found in the
preceding seven articles and the objects which are provided by
Article 19 of the Criminal Law which are in accordance with
the Ordinance of Criminal Affairs shall be confiscated.
In case when the whole or part of the objects to be
confiscated as is provided for in the preceding clause cannot be
confiscated, the sum equal to the value shall be supplementarily
collected.
ArTiCLE 21.—Any person who exports medicinal opium in ac-
cordance with the provision of Clause 2 of Article 4 or any
person who is mentioned by clauses 1, 2, or 4 of Article 5
shall not, in case his agent, the head of his house, any member
of his family, any person living with him, his employee or any
other person who is engaged in his business infringes in pursuit
of his business the provision of this Law or any Order issued
in accordance with this Law, be exempted from being punished
on the ground that the infringement did not take place under
his direction.
ArticiE 22.—In this Law the provisions which deal with import
and export shall apply mutatis mutandis to the cases of transfer
to and from Formosa.
Supplementary Provisions.
The date for coming into operation of this Ordinance shall be
decided by the Governor General of Formosa.
Before coming into operation of this Ordinance in accordance
with the previous regulations any person who has obtained the
permit for establishing opium smoking divan, may keep his establish-
ment, in spite of the provisions of Article 8, for a term limited to
(29)

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
one year from the date of coning into operation of this
Ordinance.
To any person who is permitted to keep the opiun sn oking
divan in accordance with the provision of the preceding clause, the
Opium Ordinarce of Formosa which was in force previous to the
present Ordinance, shall apply.
ARTicLE 29.—Any person mentioned by the clause 1 of Article 22
sha'l keep a book and shall enter therein each time the quantity
of medicinal opium which is received or disposed of, its date,
the address of the per: on from whom it is received and that of
the person to whom it is given, their profession, nan e or busi-
ness name ; and preserve it for ten years from the date of entry
except when it is sold or handed over in accordance with the
prescription of a physician, a dentist, or veterinary surgeon.
The prescription provided for by the preceding clause shall
be preserved with the seal attached of the person who prepared
the medicine for fully ten years from the date of its issue.
ArriclE 30.—A physician, a dentist, a veterinary surgeon, a chemist,
a manufacturer of medicine and any person who cbtained the
permit in accordance with the provisions of Article 25 shall re-
port to the Prefectural Governor or the Governor of Province not
later than the 31st day of January of the following year, the
quantities and the purposes of the use of medicinal opium which is
consumed for the preparations of medicine or otherwise during
each year.
In case a person mentioned in the preceding clause is the
person to whom medicinal opium is given, the report shall be
made by the person who has given it.
Any person who is mentioned by the preceding two
clauses ceases his business or changes the residence out of
(30)

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Formosa the report shall be made in spite of the limit of time
provided for by the first clause of this Article.
CHAPTER IV.
Manufacture and Sale of the Instruments
for Smoking Opium.
ArTicLE 31.—Any person desiring to manufacture or sell the instru-
ments for smoking opium shall obtain the permit from the
Prefectural Governor or the Governor of the Province.
ArTicLE 32.—The manufacturer of the instruments for smoking
opium shall not sell or hand over the instruments for smoking
opium to other than their dealer or the person who is permitted
to smoke prepared opium.
The dealer of th instruments for smoking opium shall not
sell or hand over the instruments to another person than the
one who is permitted to smoke prepared opium.
ARTICLE 33.—In the event of the causes which are provided for by
the clause 6 of Article 5 of the Opium Ordinance of Formosa
in connection with the instruments for smoking opium, those
instruments which are possessed or held by the n anufacturer
of the instruments for smoking opium or the dealer shall be
transferred within 30 days to another n anufacturer or dealer
with the authorization of the police authorities and those which
are possessed or held by the person who is permitted to smoke
prepared opium shall be transferred to the dealer of the instru-
ments or the person who is permitted to smoke prepared opium
with the authorization of the police officer except when they
are destroyed by the authorization of the police officer.
(31)

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
The provisions of the clauses 2 and 3 of Article 12 shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the cases provided for by the
preceding clause.
ArticLE 34.—One Prefectural Governor or the Governor of Pro-
vince, when deemed necessary, in case any manufacturer of
the intruments of smoking opium and any dealer possesses or
holds, may direct the manner of their keeping.
ArticlE 35.—The manufacturer of the instruments for smoking
prepared opium and the dealer shall keep a book and enter
therein each time the kinds, quantity of the instruments which
are manufactured, sold or transferred, and the name and address
of the buyer to whom instruments of smoking opium are sold.
ArticLE 36.—The provisions of Article 10 shall apply mutatis mutan-
dis to the manufacturer and the dealer of the instruments of
smoking opium.
CHAPTER V.
Miscellaneous Provisions.
ARTicLE 37.—When any person loses or mutilates the permit or
licence, or by reason of changing domicile, or of the name of
otherwise, any item which is entered in the permit or licence
should be changed; he shall within ten days apply for the change
or for the re-issuing of the permit or licence to the Prefectural
Governor or the Governor of the Province in which he lives
through the police authorities of the district. In the event of
the change of the permit or licence, the permit or licence shall
be presented and in case when it is lost this fact shall be
explained.
When a person who is permitted to smoke prepared opium
(32)

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
changes his residence from one prefecture or province to the
other he shall report it besides conforming to the provisions of
the preceding clause to the Prefectural Governor or the Gover-
ner of Province in which he had lived before moving.
ArticLE 38.—In the event of the application of the preceding clause,
the police authorities may issue the provisional permit until the
permit is reissued.
ARTICLE 39.—When any person needs no longer the permit or
licence, he shall return it within ten days to the Prefectural
Governor or the Governor of the Province in which he lives
except when that person is incapable because of the death or
otherwise to do so by himself, his heir or the administrator of
his property shall return it.
ArTIcLE 40.—Of the expenses in carrying out the measures pro-
vided for by Article 10 of the Opium Ordinance of Formosa
that which is incurred by a person, shall be borne by him and
that which is incurred by other causes shall be borne by the
budget of the Government except when that person is deemed
unable to defray the expenses referred to above the amount is
appropriated by the budget.
ArticLE 41.—Any person desiring to obtain the licence as providedfor
by the clause 2 of Article 8and Article 31 shall pay three yen asfees.
ArTICLE 42.—When applying for changing or reissuing of the per-
mit or licence, the dealer shail pay one yen, and the person who
is permitted to smoke prepared opium shall pay 50 sen except
when the changes are caused by the action of the Government.
ARTICLE 43.—The fees which are provided for by the preceding
two articles shall be paid in by the revenue-stamps.
ARrie 44.—When any licensed dealer is guilty of an offence or of
a wrongful act in connection with his business relating to
(33)

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
opium, his business may be suspended and the licence may be
annulled.
Article 45.—The Prefectural Governor or the Governor of Pro-
vince may take necessary measures for enforcing the present
regulations.
CHAPTER VI.
Penal Clauses.
ArricLE 46.—Any person, guilty of a offence against the provisions
of Articles 2, 5, 11, 19 and 26, shall be liable to imprisonment
with hard labour for a term not exceeding six morths, to a fine
not exceeding 100 yen, or detention or a minor fine.
ARTiCLE 47.—Any person guilty of an offence against any one of
the following provisions shall be liable to detention or ninor
fine.
1. Any person guilty of an offence against the provisions of
Articles 3, 6, the clause 3 of Article 12, the clause 1 of
Article 15; Articles 16, 17, 20; the clause 1 of Article 15
and Article 17 which are applicable correspondingly by the
provisions of Article 21, the clause 3 of Article 12 which
is applicable correspondingly by the clause 2 of Article 27
and the clause 2 of Article 33 ; Articles 29, 30, 35, 37 and
39.
2. Any person who failed to obtain the authorization in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Clause 1 of Article 12,
the clause 1 of Article 27, and the Clause 1 of Article 33.
3. Any person who failed to follow the direction in accord-
ance with the Clause 2 of Article 15, Articles 28 and 34
which are applicable correspondingly by the Clause 2 of
Article 15 and Article 21.
(34)

=== Page 65 === (confidence 1.00)
Supplementary Regulations.
The Ordinance No. 3 of 1928, the Opium Ordinance of For-
mosa and the present regulations shall come into force on and after
the 9th day of January 1929.
The wholesale agent of prepared opium, the retailer of prepared
opium, the wholesale agent of medicinal opium, the manufacturer and
dealer of the instruments of prepared opium or their dealer, who
have been appointed or permitted by the provisions of the regula-
tions formerly in force are wholesale agent and retailer of prepared
opium, wholesole agent of medicinal opium, manufacturer or dealer
of the instruments of smoking prepared opium in accordance with
the provisions of the present Regulations. However, the fees paid
in accordance with the provisions of the former regulations shall not
be returned.
To the person who establishes an opium smoking divan in ac-
cordance with the provisons of the Clause 2 of the supplementary
clauses of the Opium Ordinance of Formosa, the provisions which
were formerly in force shall apply correspondingly.
(35)

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATIONS FOR THE ENFORCEMENT
OF THE
OPIUM ORDINANCE OF FORMOSA.
CHAPTER I.
Smoking of Prepared Opium.
ArTICLE 1.—A person who has been permitted to smoke prepared
opium in accordance with the Opium Ordinance of Formosa
formerly in force is deemed as permitted by the provisions of
Article 2 of the Opium Ordinance of Formosa.
ARTicLE 2.—Any person who is permitted to smoke prepared opium
shall not smoke the quantity over and above that which is
specified in the permit for smoking prepared opiun:.
ARTICLE 3.—Any person who is permitted to smoke prepared opium
shall not smoke prepared opium in the same place with a
person who is not permitted to smoke prepared opium, except
when, being unavoidable because of living together or other-
wise, he is with a member of the family or a person living
with him.
ARTICLE 4.—Any person who is permitted to snoke prepared opium
shall not buy or possess the quantity of prepared opium over
and above that which is prescribed for three days except
when it is deemed necessary by the police authorities to buy
and possess it because of an unavoidable cause on the ground
of special local circumstances or otherwise.
ArTiCLE 5.—When any person who is permitted to smoke prepared
(36)

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
opium buys prepared opium, he shall present to the retailer the
permit for smoking prepared opium, and the purchase book in
which it is to be recorded the quantity of the prepared opium
purchased, its price, the date, and the name and address of the
retailer.
ArricLE 6.—Any person who is permitted to smoke prepared
opium shall dispose of the opium dross which is accumulated
as the result of smoking according to the direction of the
police officer, except when it is bought by the Government-
General.
CHAPTER II.
Sale of Prepared Opium.
ARTicLE 7.—Prepared opium is sold by the wholesale agent to the
retailer of prepared opium and by the retailer to the person
who is permitted to smoke prepared opium.
ArticLE 8.—The wholesale agent is appointed by the Prefectural
Governor or the Governor of Province.
Any person who desires to retail prepared opium shall
obtain the licence from the Prefectural-Governor or the
Governor of Province.
ArticLE 9.—When the wholesale agent or the retailer of prepared
opium desires to let the other person aid in carrying out the
business, he shail obtain the authorization of the police
authorities of the district.
ArTIcLE 10.—The wholesale agent or the retailer of prepared opium
shall not conduct his business in other places than that which
was permitted.
ARTicLE 11.—The wholesale agent or the retailer of prepared
(37)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
opium shall sell prepared opium at the prices set by the
Government-General.
ArTicLE 12.—In the event of the causes which are provided for by
the clause 6 of Article 5 of the Opium Ordinance of Formosa
in connection with prepared opium, the Government-General is
asked to buy back within 30 days the opium which is possessed
or held by the wholesale agent, and the opium which is possessed
or held by the retailer or the person who is permitted to smoke
prepared opium, shall with the authorization of the police
authorities of the district (However for that which was
possessed or held by the person who is permitted to smoke
prepared opium, the authorization of the police officer), be
handed to the retailer of prepared opium, except when it is
destroyed by the authorization of the police officer.
The price at which the transfer of the opium is made as
provided for in the foregoing clause shall correspond to that
which actually prevails.
When any person who is asked to purchase the opium as
provided for by the first clause, it shall not be refused without
just cause.
ArticLE 13.—The wholesale agent of prepared opium shall not sell
or hand over prepared opium unless the retailer of prepared opium
or his employee who is certified as such by the police officer
presents the license for retailing prepared opium.
Article 14.—The wholesale agent shall not sell or hand over less
quantity of prepared opium than that of the whole contents of
a tin.
ArTicLE 15.—The wholesale agent shall report to the Prefectural
Governor or the Governor of the Province in which he resides
as to the manner of keeping prepared opiun.
(38)

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
The prefectural Governor or the Governor of the Province
when deemed necessary may direct as to the manner of keeping
prepared opium.
ArTicLE 16.—The wholesale agent shall keep a book and record
therein the quantity of prepared opium which is received and
disposed of, the price, and the name and address of the retailer
to whom the opium is sold or handed over.
ArTicLE 17.—The wholesale agent shall report to the police
authorities of the district before the 5th of the month, the
quantity and price of the prepared opium which is received and
disposed of during the preceding month.
AkTCLE 18.—The retailer of prepared opium shall not sell or hand
over prepared opium to a person who is permitted to smoke
prepared opium or to his employee who is certified by the
police officer unless the permit for smoking prepared opium
and the purchase book are presented.
When a retailer of prepared opium sells or hands over
prepared opium to a pers n who is permitted to smoke
prepared opium, he shall not, after the examination of the
purchase book, sell or hand over prepared opium, the quantity
of which exceeds the amount of three days consumption less
the amount actually possessed by the person who is permitted
to smoke prepared opium, except the case provided for by the
last clause of Article 4.
ArriclE 19.—When a retailer of prepared opium sells or hands
over prepared opium, he shall cnter in the purchase book which
is presented by the person who is permitted to smoke opium,
the quantity, price, date and his name and address.
A retailer of prepared opium, when he sells to each of the
permitted opium smoker, prepared opium first time in any
(39)

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
month, shall and together the quantities of prepared opium al-
ready entered in the purchase book during the preceding month.
and enter therein the total amount.
ArTicLE 20.—A retailer of prepared opium shall keep a book and
shall enter therein each time the quantity and price of prepared
opium which is received or disposed of.
ARTicLE 21.—The provisions of Article 15 and Article 17 shall be
applied mutatis mutandis to the retail of prepared opium.
CHARPTER III.
Sale of Medicinal Opium.
ArTicLE 22.—Medicinal opium shall be sold by the wholesale agert
of medicinal opium to the physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon,
chemist, druggist, or manufacturer of medicine.
The wholesale agent of medicinal opium is appointed by
the Prefectural Governor or the Governor of Province from the
chemist, druggist, or manufacturer of medicine.
ArriclE 23.—Any person desiring to export medicinal opium shall
obtain the permit from the Governor-General of Formosa by
sending the application with the following details. After obtain-
ing the permit when he desires to change any part of its details,
the same provision shall be applied.
1. The quantity of export,
2. The purpose of export,
3. The name and address or business name of the importer,
4. The approximate date of export,
5. The port of export,
The applicant provided for by the preceding clause shall
send with the application the certificate which is issued by the
authorities of the importing countries as to its import, except
(40)

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
when it is applied for changes of details which are provided for
by Nos. 4 and 5 of the preceding clause.
ArriCLE 24.—Medicinal opium shall not be sold or handed over
unless a physician, a dentist, a veterinary surgeon, a chemist, a
druggist, and a manufacturer of medicine sells or hands over
each other, except when a physician, a dentist, a veterinary
surgeon or a chemist, supplies to a person who needs it in ac-
cordance with the prescription issued by a physician, a dentist,
or a veterinary surgeon for medical purpose, or supplied to a
person who obtained the permit in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 25.
ArTicLE 25.—When any person desires to use medicinal opium for
scientific purposes, he shall obtain the permit of the Prefectural
Governor or the Governor of the Province in which he resides.
ArticlE 26.—A physician, a dentist, a veterinary sergeon, a chemist,
and a manufacturer of medicine shall not use medicinal opium
for other purpose than for manufacturing medicine or scientific
use.
ArriclE 27.—In the event of the causes which are provided for
by the clause 6 of Article 5 of the Opium Ordinance of For-
mosa in connection with medicinal opium, the Government-
General is asked within 30 days to repurchase that which is
possessed or held by the wholesale agent and that which is
possessed or held by other persons (except that which is pos-
sessed or held in accordance with the provision of the clause 5
of Article 5 of the Opium Ordinance of Formosa) shall be
transferred to the person who is provided for by the clause 1 of
Article 22 with the authorization of the Police authorities of
the District, except when it is destroyed by the authorization
of the Police Officer.
(41)

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
The Provisions of the clauses 2 and 3 of Article 12 shall
be applied mutatis mutandis to the cases provided for by the
preceding clause.
Article 28.—The Prefectural Governor or the Governor of Pro-
vince, when deemed necessary, in case any person who is men-
tioned by the clause 1 of Article 22 possesses or holds medi-
cinal opium may direct the manner of its keeping.
(42)

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
PRINTED SY
THE TAIHEIYOSHA PRESS
TOKYO

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
Sep0mbee 12:1040
In reply refer to
FE 848H.114 Haro tios/1l
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to
848H.114 NARCOTICS/12
the Honorable the Administrator of the Federal Security
Agency, and encloses herewith, for the information and
records of the Public Health Service, a copy of the
annual report of the Government of
Peohuanalanc Proteotorate
on the traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs for
the year
submitted under the Narcotics Limita-
1941
tion Convention of 1931 and transmitted, under the
terms of that Convention, by the Secretary General of
the League of Nations.
Enclosure:
League document No. 0.0./A.R.1941/20,
June 19, 1942.
PS/AI
1942F
SEp
FA
FE:GAM
FE
m32
IX-9-42
