851A.6341 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Precious Metals And Precious Stones., St. Pierre And Miquelon, Gold., November 10, 1947 (File 1602)
ID: 851A.6341-1602   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-851a.6341-mines-mining-concessions
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
EUR
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : OE: Mr. R. H. Whitman
DATE: November 27, 1947
FROM : EUR: Wayne G. Jackson
WE: Woodruff Wallner
SUBJECT:

WE and EUR are reluctant to initial the attached papers. It is not that we disagree with the proposal that the matter of the possible return of the gold to Indochina be referred to FEC but rather that the line of reasoning contained in the letter to Under Secretary Draper does not seem clear and the reference in the proposed note about placing the matter before FEC might be differently phrased.

As we understand the position which Le has previously taken, there was in fact a transfer of title to the gold when it was earmarked for the account of Indochina. If passage of title were by itself determinative, there would be no problem. We understand, however, that Le advises that the basic question is whether or not that transfer of title will be recognized. The decision on this point is not a legal decision but a political decision.

If the above analysis is correct, the question remains as to whether the U.S. proposes to make this political decision unilaterally or to refer it to FEC. It is our understanding that FE and OE feel strongly that reference of the matter to FEC is desirable. We are prepared to agree with this. The earmarking of the gold arose out of transactions with or for the benefit of the military activities of Japan, a country which was preparing its aggression in the months before December 7, 1941, and was actively at war with us and other FEC countries after that date. It would seem appropriate that the FEC, which has a general jurisdiction over matters arising out of the Far Eastern war, should consider this matter and we understand that Le believes this matter may properly be brought within FEC's jurisdiction.

On the basis of the above, we feel that the letter to the Army Department should state the situation and the Department's view, if it is concurred in by other interested parts of the Department, that the matter should be referred to FEC. With regard to the note to the French, it would seem more appropriate to advise the French that we are not prepared to take unilateral action with regard to the Indochina gold and to suggest that either the French take this matter up in FEC or, if the French do not wish to do this, that

851.6.6341/11-10 47

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

this, that the U.S. will place the matter before the FEC. It would not seem appropriate to state, as is done in the present draft, that the U.S. will place the matter before FEC "on behalf of the French Government".

Attachments
