894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., January 25, 1930 - February 6, 1935 (File 846), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00-846-2   Pages: 644   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-15/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20January%2025%2C%201930%20-%20February%206%2C%201935%20846-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
(NOT FOR THE PRESS)
(FOR DEPARTMENTAL USE ONLY)
Department of State
Division of Current Information
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESS CONFERENCE, THURSDAY, AUGUST 25. 198
At the press conference this morning Acting Secretary
Castle announced the release of a telegram from President Hoover
to the President of Uruguay on the occasion of the anniversary
of tre independence of that country. The Acting Secretary also
said that Mr. McDermott had two or three telegrams from China
894.00/432
and cne from Paraguay wiich the correspondents might see and
which they might UseRHoEIFOR ATfRIBUTION.
32 1932
JAPAN.
DIVISION OF
Asked if he
Count Uchida's speech before the
894.00
Diet, the Acting Secretary replied in the affirmative. The
correspondent then asked if the Acting Secretary could comment
in any way on the speech. In reply, Mr. Castle said that there
was not much to say about the speech as there was really nothing
new in it. Mr. Castle added that he thought that Count Uchida
evidently addressed the specch to the League of Nations in an
effcrt to give his side of the case. There was no direct
reference to Secretary Stimson's speech of August 8 and Count
Uchida was apparently endeavoring to put the Japanese case
before the world as well as he could.
A correspondent here asked if Count Uchida's contention
SE.8 S
that the right of self-defense extends beyond the frontier
FLLED
was new. In reply, Mr. Castle said that Japan has said that
rignt along, although not so baldly. The correspondent then
observed that the Japanese have claimed that self-defense was
an exception under the Kellogg Pact and that they have con-
tended that self-defense extends beyond the frontier. Replying,
Mr. Cestle said that the question had never been brought up
except by the Japanese. NOT FOR ATTRIBUTION in eny way the
Acting

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
Acting Secretary said that he thought it perfectly conceivable
that self-defense might make action beyond the frontier
necessary but that the technicalities of such a situation are
very difficult.
A correspondent then asked if the Acting Secretary con-
sidered Count Uchida's speech as a declaration to the League
of Nations of the intention to recognize Manchukuo, to continue
to use force and to hold what they have taken. Again, NOT FOR
ATTRIBUTION, Mr. Castle said that the Japanese would not admit
that the continued use of force has anything to do with the
present case, because they would claim that they were acting
for the new state of Manchukuo.
A correspondent then asked if the Department of State
takes the position that Japanese recognition of Manchukuo would
be a further violation of the Nine-Power Pact. For background
only and NOT FOR ATTRIBUTION in any way, the Acting Secretary
said that he had not studied the question sufficiently to
enable him to be sure in the matter but that he thought it
would be. The position taken would, of course, depend on the
decision whether Manchukuo came into existence through the
will of the people of Manchuria or whether it was forced into
existence by the Japanese. The correspondent then asked if
we had any doubt about the question. He was informed in reply
that we shall wait to hear what the League of Nations
Commission has to say concerning the case. Observing that the
report of the Commission of the League of Nations is apparently
available in Geneva, a correspondent asked if the Department of
State had received a copy of the report. In reply, Mr. Castle
said that he did not think it possible that the League of
Nations had received a copy of the report because the last we
heard was to the effect that the Commission was preparing
the

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
the report in China. It is doubtful whether the report could
reach Geneva before about the end of September. The corres
pondent then said that possibly the League had only a digest
of the Commission's report but that the opinion seems to be gen-
eral in Geneva that the report is very adverse to Japan.
Commenting thereon, Mr. Castle said that it is possible that
individuals in Geneva have heard from individuals on the
Commission on certain specific points, but that he doubted very
much if the report had been completed.
Another correspondent then voluntecred the information
that he had received a news despatch from Geneva to the effect
that the League of Nations had been notified, presumably by
cable, that the draft had been completed, but that the text
thereof had not been received in Geneva. The Acting Secretary
replied to the effect that he did not believe the report would
be cabled to the League but that it would either be sent by
mail or carried in person over Siberia. Asked if the Department
of State expected to receive a copy of the report before it is
made public, the Acting Secretary said that the Department had
not asked for a copy but that he presumed we would receive one
at the time it is given out in Geneva. asken then if the
Department had received a summary of the report comparable to
the one said to have been cabled to Geneva, the Acting Secre
tary replied in the negative.
A correspondent asked if it is likely that anything will.
be said officially by President Hoover or by Secretary Stimson
in reply to Count Uchida's speech. The Acting Secretary in
reply said that he did not think there was any chance that such
a stetement would be made by either the President or the
Secretary of State.
M. J. McDermott.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/433
894.032/113
Tel.#221-noon
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
-..-) DATED
Aug.27.1932
-TO
NAME
1-1157
REGARDING:
Speech of Count Uohida before Japanese Diet:
Gives summary of Japanese press comment.Speech
is welcomed as indicating a bold and original
Foreign Office polioy.Speech is characterized as being
a clear out expression of national sentiment.
fpg

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
409
cib
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated August 27, 1932
Rocd 2:07 a.m.
894.
Secrctary of State
Washington.
221
222, ugust 27, noon.
9
The Japanese newspapors without excoption oxpross
w
hearty approval of Count Uchida's speech before the Diet
894.00
2
on the 25th. They highly commend the implication that
Japan will recognize Manchukuo without regard to abstract
theories and characterize the speech as being a clear
ω
expression of the national sentiment, conviction and
determination. They also welcome the speech as indicating
a bold and original Foreign Office policy instead of
previous timid policy.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
CTB WP

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
FAN EAST AFFAIRS
August 24, 1932AUG 24 1932
Department of State
Memorandum of conversation with the Japanese Chargé
d'Affaires, Mr. Kato.
Mr. Kato came to give me the attached copy
of what Count Uchida is now saying to the Diet in
894.00/434
Tokyo. He will give copies to the press to use as
they wish tomorrow morning.
94
Mr. Kato asked me to read through the speech
1793.
on the chance that I might have some comments to make.
794.
I told him that there appeared to be nothing new in
it, that, of course, I was sorry that Japan appeared
to be so determined to recognize Manchukuo and sorry
to see Count Uchida repeating the statement that Manchu-
kuo was the result of the will of the Manchurian people,
since it would be very difficult to make the world believe
that this was true. I said everyone admitted that if the
Japanese Army should leave Manchukuo now the state would
not last a moment. I said also that it made me unhappy
to see the yen going down and down as this meant that
FILED
to stop the fall except by putting an end to their mili
1982
tary

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
2
tary adventure.
Mr. Kato said he was afraid
the recognition of Manchukuo was inevitable as
there seemed an insistent demand for it througout
Japan.
W.
U WRC/AB

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
ADDRESS OF THE FOREIGN MINISTER, COUNT YASUYE UCHIDA,
BEFORE THE 63RD JAPANESE DIET ON THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 1952
At the June session of the Diet my predecessor
took occasion to report upon and discuss the outstand-
ing foreign relations of this country. Today, in view
of the importance of the developments in Manchuria that
have taken place since then, I desire to review the
questions regarding Manchuria and China Proper and to
describe in some detail the policy of the Japanese Gov-
ernment.
We are all gratified to note that Mamchukuo has
entered upon a career of sturdy and healthy progress.
The Japanese Government are convinced that recognition
of this new State is the only means of stabilizing con-
ditions in Manchuria and of establishing conditions of
permanent peace in the Far East. And, it is with a
view to the early extension of formal recognition to
Manchukuo that we are making various arrangements,
upon the expected completion of which in the near fu-
ture, our plan will be carried through.
However, there are those in other countries
who do not fully comprehend the attitude of Japan toward
China nor the measures she has taken since the incident
of September 18 last year and who, in default of a cor-
-1

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
rect conception of the advent of Manchukuo, look upon
any recognition of Manchukuo by Japan as an illegitimato
procedure. In view of such misunderstanding as still
persists, I avail myself of this opportunity to clarify
Hapan's position and to expound to you the reasons why
the Goverment consider recognition of Manohukuo to be the
only means of solving the Manchurian problem although in
doing so I may have to repeat what has already been set
forth in successive declarations and statements issued
in the past by the Japanese Government.
It is an indisputable fact that the chaotic con-
dition of China and the so-called revolutionary polioy
carried on by China under the enthralling influence of
extravagant political dogma have been principally re-
sponsible for the unfortunate turn that international
relations have taken of recent years in the Far East.
Although Japan has been the chief vietim of the abnormal
state of affairs in China, other countries have also
suffered intolerable indignities and incalculable ma-
terial loss. At the same time it is admitted by those
conversant with actual conditions in China that no remedy
can be effected by having recourse either to the Covenant
of the League of Nations or to any other organ of what
may be termed "machinery of peace". In fact it has been
the practice of the Powers, as has been demonstrated on
-2

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
innumerable occasions, to repair or prevent injuries to
their important rights and interests in China by direet
application of force without relying upon those instru-
ments of peace.
For over twenty years Japan continued to exercise
the greatest patience and moderation in the hope that
some day China might soberly undertake the task of re
habilitating her fortunes and playing her proper role
in the maintenance of peace in the Far East. China
failed however to show any sincere desire to reciprocate
our good will and kindly sentiments but increased more
than ever in her arrogance and intolerance. Our Govern-
ment took pains time and again to point out to China the
danger she was running in trying too far the patience
of the Japanese people. But China did not heed our
warnings. The incident of September 18 occurred in
Manchuria, the very region regarded as the first bul-
wark of Japan, at the precise moment when the feeling
of our people had been wrought up to the highest pitch
by repeated provocations. We had no alternative other
than to resort to a measure of self defense.
There are those who argue as though the action
of Japan were a violation of the Kellogg-Briand Anti-
War Pact. But such contention has no foundation in fact.
As I have stated, Japan has been foroed to adopt neces-
-3-

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
sary measures for the prevention of wanton attacks upon
important righ ts and interests vital to her national
existence. The Anti-War Pact does not put restraint
upon the exercise of the right of self defense in such
a case.
The pact does not prohibit a signatory power
from taking at its own discretion whatever steps it
finds imperative in order to remove immediate menaces
to its territory and its rights and interests of whatever
kind. And obviously the exercise of the right of self
defense may extend beyond the territory of the Power
which exercises that right. Japan's action is essen-
tially identical with the action that other Powers have
taken elsewhere in similar circumstances.
Following upon this action legitimately taken by
Japan in the face of Chinese attacks, officials of the
regime presided over by Chang Hsuehliang ei ther fled or
resigned as you know with the result of a practical ex-
tinction of that regime. In the meantime among the lead-
ing people of Manchuria who had long resented the
tyranny of the Changs and were opposed to plunging their
land into the civil turmoil of China Proper, a project for
political reform mas already under way. It 1s in every
way natural that these leaders should have taken as they
did advantage of the opportunity afforded by the downfall
of Chang to launch out upon an active movement. " peace
4

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
maintenance committee" was accordingly organized at
Mukden, Harbin and other centres. In view of our own
responsibility in respect of the maintenance of peace
and order in Manchuria we extended necessary coopera-
tion to these committees. It was the Manchurien lead
ers connected with these committees who decided that
the hour had struck for founding the new State. The
establishment of Manchukuo was the outcome of a separat-
ist movement having for its background the geographic
and historical peculiarities of Manchuria as well as
the psychological characteristics of the Manchurian
people.
Those who seek to place upon Japan the re-
sponsibility for the Manchurian revolution by trac-
ing the independence of Manchukuo directly to our mili-
tary operations, simply labour under ignorance of the
facts and their opinions altogether miss the point.
Again, as regards those who fanoy they detect a seoret
connection of some sort on the part of Japan with the
foundation of the new State basing their suspicions
on the fact that there are in fact a number of Japanese
in the employ of the Manchukuo Government, I need only
point to the existence of many precedents for the en-
listment by the young Government or newly founded State
of the services of foreigners. Our own Government since
-5

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
the Meiji restoration have employed many foreigners as
advisers or as regular officials; their number for
instance in the year 1875 or thereabout exceeded five
hundred. Those who misconstrue the presence of Japanese
1n the Manchukuo Government in the fashion alluded to
are placing the responsibility where it does not belong.
Manchukuo has come into being as I have already
remarked as a result of separatist movements within China
herself. Consequently the view expressed in certain quar-
ters that recognition of the new State thus created would
constitute a violation of the stipulations of the Nine
Power Treaty is in my opinion incomprehensible. The
Nine Power Treaty does not forbid all separatist move-
ments in China or debar Chinese in any part of the coun-
少，
try from setting up on their free will an independent
State. Hence should Japan extend recognition to the
existing Government of Manchukuo founded by the will
of the people of Manchuria she would not thereby as
a signatory Power to the Nine Power Treaty violate in
any way the stipulations of that treaty. of course
it would be a different matter on the assumption that
Japan was seeking to annex Mnachuria or otherwise sat-
isfy her thirst for land. Only I hardly need to waste
words in once more disclaiming at this juncture any
territorial designs on our part in Manchuria or any-
-6

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
where else.
Thus far I have elucidated the theses that the
attitude maintained by Japan toward China and especial-
ly the measures we have taken since the incident of
September 18 have been just and proper, that the in-
dependence of Manchukuo has been achieved through the
spontaneous will of Manchurians and should be rogerded
as a consequence of a fissiparous movement in China,
and that recognition by Japan of the new State thus
created can not violate the stipulations of the Nine
Power Treaty. Now let me proceed further and dwell
upon the reasons why the Japanese Government consid-
er the recognition of Manchukuo as the sole effective
means of solving the Manchurian problem.
With regard to the question of finding a solu-
tion for the Manchurian problem, the Japanese Govern-
ment attach the greatest importance to the following
two points: - First, that, in seeking a satisfactory
solution we should a im at the fulfillment of the legi-
timate aspirations of the Manchurian people - at
adequa te guarantees for the ri ghts and interests of
Japan, • at prevention, in order to make Manchuria a
safe place to live in alike for Manchurians and for-
eigners, of any recrudescence of erstwhile anti-foreign
policy and movements and finally at bringing not only
-7

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
stability to Manchuria but permanent peace to the Par
Bast; - Secondly that such solution should be effeeted
by rejecting all sentimental propositions and abstract
theories and arrived at upon the solid basis of realities
of the situation.
In view of the ciroumstances that
led to the outbreak of last September and of the immense
sacrifices our country has been compelled to make in
the past the Japanese Government feel the imperious need
of arriving at a fundamental solution of the Manchurian
problem on the lines of these two propositions and of
eliminating for all time the causes of a secular Sino-
Japanese confliot.
On the other hand, it appears that in certain
quarters a plan is being considered to reach a solution
by patching up matters for the moment by investing China
Proper in one form or another with authority over Man-
churia. That such a plan would only serve to repro-
duce the situation preceding the incident of September
18 is only too plain to us who have been taught by bi tter
experience in the past. The people of Japan can never
consent to a solution of that kind.  Moreover, it is as
clear as day that the investment of China Proper with
power over Manchuria under whatever guise is totally
irreconcilable with the political creed enunciated in
the declaration of independence and other publio state-
-8

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
ments of the Men chukuo Government and therefore that
the scheme in question has no chance of being accepted
by Manchurians. The imposition upon Manchuria of what
is not wanted by Manchurians would be as unjust as ill-
advised in that it would only end by sowing seeds of
future trouble in that land.
The plan to invest China Proper with authority over
Manchuria and all measures of a similar temporizing kind
will never fulfil the object of making Menchuria a safe
and happy land for both natives and foreigners nor do
they accord with our principle of finding a solution
upon the basis of the realities of the situation. Cer-
tainly it is not the way in which to bring stability
to Manchuria or permanent peace to the Far East.
Manchukuo has set out upon an honest programme
that is open and aboveboard. It has declared its inten-
tion to pursue a policy of justice, peace and friend-
ship toward other countries, to take over obligations
of existing treaties according to international law and
usage, to respect vested rights and interests of foreign-
ers and to protect their lives and property, to welcome
all aliens and to a ccord them equal and equitable treat-
ment irrespective of their racial origin, to adhere to the
principle of the open door, to promote international
trade and to contribute to the economio development of
-9-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
the world; and Machukuo's sincerity of purpose has been
definitely established. It is plain therefore that to
extend to Manchukuo formal recognition and assist its
Government to carry on their sound policy above referred
to will be a notable step toward making Manchuria a happy
and peaceful land for natives and foreigners alike on the
basis of the realities of the situation. And it is
plain, too, that such is the only way to secure a perma-
nent solution of the Manchurian problem.
As long as Manchukuo retains the sterling spirit
in which it was founded and perseveres in its high pur-
pose it is assured of a future full of promise. Here
and there we find persons entertaining exaggerated fear
of the perils of banditry in Manchuria, of making gloomy
forecast regarding the finances of the country. But
we refuse to join the company of these pessimists. Up-
heavals brought about by lawless elements are a univer-
sal phenomena to be observed in newly established states
anywhere in the world. Whereas in most of such cases
it takes some considerable time to put unrest down,
1t 1s only fair to say that in Manchuria the suppres-
sion of banditry is making comparatively rapid strides.
As for the financial status of Manchukuo I have been
told that it is good, really far better than was anti-
cipated at first by the Manchurian authorities. In view
-10

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
of the vast territory, the thriving population and immense
natural resources in its possession, there can be no
doubt that Manchukuo, given a good government, will emerge
as a rich and prosperous country and come to be a great
market for the world. It is my hope that the healthy
development of Manchukuo will not only bring happiness and
prosperity to the thirty million inhabitants of the coun-
try but will serve as a good example for the rehabilita-
tion of China Proper.
As regards the conditions prevailing in China
Proper I regret to say that the growing disturbance in
her domestic administration, coupled with rampant ac-
tivities of communist bandits throughout an extensive
area in the Yangtze Valley and South China, 1s casting
a gloomy shadow on the path of the National Government.
Besides as an anti-foreign, especially an anti-Japanese,
movement still continues unabated, further complications
are likely to arise in the foreign relations of China,
which in turn will make her internal confusion worse
confounded. Truly, our deep sympathy 1s due the Chinese
people, who have to suffer under these troubled condi-
tions. To allow such conditions to persist as they are,
I am firmly convinced, will not only be deplorable for
China herself but will constitute a constant danger of
bringing about a serious menace to the rights and inter-
-11

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
ests of foreign Powers. On the contrary, the whole
world will re joice, should China realize the gravity of
the situation, cast aside her ill-advised foreign policy
and adopt in earnest a constructive programme of devo-
tion to the task of internal readjustment. It goes
without saying that Japan, always conscious of the gen-
eral interests of the Far East, will spare no effort to
afford all possible assistance to China. Indeed it is
my fervent hope that the day is not far distant when
Japan, Manchukuo and China, as three independent Powers
closely linked together by a bond of cultural and racial
affinities, will come to cooperate hand in hand for the
maintena 9 and advancement of the peace and prosperity
of the Far East as well as for the peace of the world
and the civilization of mankind.
-12-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVUSIONLDPPAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 29 1932.
Referring
letter,-
Mr. Salisbury
talle me that
it has been reported to him that
in the public sohools of Japan,
which are government-regulated,
the ohildren are taught that the
United States is a country of
"injustice", one of the stook
items of the evidence being the
Japanese "exolusion" provision of
the Imn 'gration A0t of 1924.
THE NDER SECRETRY
SKH:LBEP 2 1032
DEPARTMENT ULSTATE

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
C
REOEIVED
DIA21
fit 
AUG 2 7 1932
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
Tokyo, August 13, 1932.
F
H
6.1932
SEP
REOETVED
S
 JAN 23 ar Mr
Secretary:
DIVISION OF
894.00/434-1/
Council on Foreign Relations savors distinctly of a tempest
in a teapot if not of a guilty conscience on the part of the
894.0
Japanese, for we now understand that the speech was merely
an academic discussion of a hypothetical case, while the
Japanese took it as a specific charge of guilt. Unfortun-
1174
ately I was unable to take any steps to mitigate the effect
2
here, because neither the text of the speech nor a resumé of
its substance and intentions have reached me, and by the time
the text arrives from Shanghai the incident will presumably be
closed. However that may be, the Foreign Office has used the
speech deliberately to pour fuel on the temporarily quiescent
flames of public animosity against the United States. I say
deliberately, because the violent Japanese press reaction was
based not on the press despatches from the United States but on
the Foreign Office's inflammatory interpretation of Debuchi's
cabled account, and this interpretation was given to the Japanese
press a day before it was released to the foreign correspondents.
AP
The Honorable
R
FILED
211943
Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
This situation reminds me strongly of the efforts of
the German Government, by calumniating foreign nations, to
build up a public war psychology in l9l4, the effort being
repeated whenever some new venture, such as the indiscrim-
inate submarine warfare, was about to be launched.
Here in
Japan the deliberate building up of public animosity against
foreign nations in general and the United States in partioular
has doubtless a similar purpose - to strengthen the hand of
the military in its Manchurian venture in the face of foreign,
and especially American, opposition. I believe that on the
part of the Japanese it is a sign of weakness, not of strength.
The internal economic and financial situation in Japan is ser-
ious and may become desperate.
The plight of the farmers is
very bad, many industries are at low ebb, unemployment is
steadily increasing.
The yen is falling and prices have not
yet risen proportionately.
.Money cannot be obtained from
abroad; I was recently told, aIthough I cannot vouch for the
reliability of the information, that the Government had tried
without success to obtain loans from England, France and Holland
in turn. It will become increasingly difficult to obtain
domestic loans.
This situation is not critical, but it may
become so when the ability of the National Bank of Japan to
absorb domestic bonds comes to an end. Meanwhile millions
of yen are being squandered to support the Manchurian venture,

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
一 3 -
of which the eventual economic advantage is highly proble-
matical, and when the full purport of these expenses becomes
known to the people, in their own serious deprivation, there
is no telling what effect it will create. I believe that a
steadily increasing anxiety exists among the Government and
the thinking men of the country outside of the hot-headed
military clique which refuses to face these facts. It seems
to be primarily this military element - vocalized by such men
as Shiratori - who believe that the best way to obscure these
facts is to work the public into a patriotic and nationalistic
fervor by representing foreign nations, particularly the
United States, as trying to thwart Japan's efforts for alleged
self-preservation.
Such a national temper is always dangerous. The German
military machine, supported by a carefully nurtured publie
war psychology, took the bit in its teeth and overrode all
restraining influences in 19l4. The Japanese military
machine is not dissimilar. It has been built for war, feels
prepared for war and would welcome war. It has never yet
been beaten and possesses unlimited self confidence. I am
not an alarmist but I believe that we should have our eyes
open to all possible future contingencies. The facts of
history would render it criminal to close them.
In this connection the enclosed memorandum prepared by
the Embassy, which will be incorporated in a despatch, may

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
be found significant.
Respectfully yours,
Nooth. Frew
Pertinent despatches in this pouch:
No. 8l. Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan.
82.
Speculations on the Probable Effect in Japan of
the Report of the League Commission of Inquiry.
" 89. Effects of the Chinese Boycott on Japan.
n
90.
Pressure on Foreign Office by Military-Fascist
group.
Enclosure:
Memorandum on Japanese Army.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
MEMORANDUM
The following factors indicate that the Japanese Amy
is making extraordinary preparations for war:
1. Material Preparations:
According to the Military Attaché's office, the
Army Arsenals are working full time (as far as can be
ascertained); the airplane factories are very active -
more active than they have ever been; the Navy Arsenal
at Yokosuka is working day and night; the Army has entire
ly replaced the material taken from the war reserves and
used in the Manchurian and Shanghai campaigns, and war
reserves are believed to be now above normal; the Army
has bought around 500 motor-cars of various types and
makes since last September; extraordinarily large pur-
chases of American machine tools have been made for the
airplane works and arsenals; tanks and armoured cars are
being built as rapidly as possible; a chemical factory
was hurriedly built in Meguro (outside Tokyo) for materials
for chemical warfare end is now under military guard; there
has been a very large increase during the last six months
in the imports of raw materials usable in war, such as
special steels, glycerine, oils, raw cotton, wool, ores,
etc.; the people of the cities are being urged to buy and
man anti-aircraft equipment; anti-aircraft practice goes
on daily in Tokyo; the manoeuvres this year are exception-
al in their number and variety, emphasis being placed on
artillery manoeuvres (the Shanghaf affair demonstrated a
weakness in this line); the War Department is asking for
an additional appropriation of Yen 43,000,000, ostensibly
for unemployment relief but actually for the purpose of
giving contracts for equipment to private concerns and
thus bringing their continuing projects for the mechani-
zation of the Army up to date.
Psychological Preparations:
Numerous articles tending to incite war fever in
the people have been published, but because of the prom-
inence of the writer, excerpts are quoted from an article
written by General Araki, Minister for War, first published
in the KAISHOSHA (an Army officers' magazine) and trans-
lated in the JAPAN ADVERTISKR of July 26 and 27, 1932:
"There is no doubt that much courage is needed
to deal satisfactorily with the present situation.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
"We must start with the consciousness that
we are Japanese and no other.
"...impress upon the world their (the Japanese)
importance as a nation.
"The Imperial Principle of the Japanese nation
...is...a thing that must be propagated over the
seven seas and extended over the five continents.
Anything that may hinder its progress must be done
away with even by the use of force.
"We of the Japanese nation ....should take
the whole situation (the disturbed condition of
all Asia) into our own hands. We must be active,
even expending the last portion of our national
strength.
"The countries of Eastern Asia are made objects
of oppression by the white peoples. This is an un-
deniable fact and Imperial Japan should no longer
let their impudence go unpunished.
When the Commission of Inquiry of the League of
Nations visited Tokyo in July, 1932, the Japanese press
published concerted and inspired articles affirming Japan's
determination to pursue its "fixed policy". This was
partly for the benefit of the Commission, but also partly
to inspire the people to defy the League if necessary.
The Foreign Office spokesman, Mr. T. Shiratori, released
to the Japanese press on August 9th an entirely unealled-
for, inaccurate and provocative interpretation of the
speech of the Secretary of State before the Council for
Foreign Relations. This was obviously released for the
purpose of arousing nationalistic and/ or anti-American
feeling.
The people throughout Japan (even school children)
are being urged to subscribe to funds for purchasing and
presenting to the Army "patriotism" airplanes, tanks,
passenger motor-cars, armoured motor-cars, and anti-
aircraft equipment. This is partly for the purpose of
conserving Army funds and partly to encourage war-fever.
3. Financial Preparations:
A bill was rushed through the last session of the
Diet, enabling the Bank of Japan to increase its fiduciary

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
一3-
issue of currency (which is based on Govermment bonds
and certain commercial paper) by Yen 880,000,000.
The bank can now, therefore, take up Government bends
to the additional amount of Yen 880,000,000. This
was done partly to provide funds for the Army's ac-
tivities on the mainland, and partly to provide funds
for agrarian relief. The measure will provide suffi-
cient funds for the present fiscal year, at the present
rate of expenditure.
4。
Political Preparations:
Through the murder of Premier Inukai on May 15,
1932, the political power was taken out of the hands
of the professional politicians and placed under the
control of the military group. At the same time the
Diet was thoroughly cowed.The only remaining opposing
element consists of the advisers to the Throne, Count
Makino, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, and Dr. Ikki,
Minister of the Imperial Household Department, both of
whom are conservatives and inclined to be pacifists.
Count Makino was threatened on May 15th when Inukai was
murdered, and it is believed that further attempts are
now being made to force him and Dr. Ikki out of office.
The above observations all indicate war-like prepara-
tions. On the other hand, when we look for indications of
a peace-seeking or conciliatory nature, we find nothing
tangible. There is, as stated by Shiratori, the Foreign
Office spokesman, in discussing President Hoover's disarma-
ment proposal, no popular sentiment in Japan for disarmament.
There is certainly no articulate movement looking toward
compromise of the Manchurian question. There is no indica-
tion of any tendency to listen to conciliatory advice from
the League or any other quarter.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
The purpose of the strengthening of the war machine
and the building up of the war psychology is uncertain.
It may be simply to present a united, armed front to the
world in case the decision of the League goes against Japan,
or to be prepared for eventualities should China or Soviet
Russia declare war. On the other hand, it may be that the
aggressive Army group has a definite war in mird. The
Army evidently plans a drive into Jehol, partly to cut
Chang Hsueh Liang's communications with the retel forces
in Manchuria and partly, perhaps, to cut communications
between China and the Chinese Eastern and Trans-Siberian
railway, in order that China may not be supplied from
Soviet Russia in case of a Chinese-Russian combination
against Japan.
Probably, however, the preparations are being made
more for the purpose of being ready for possible eventual-
ities than for a definite war, if the present or enlarged
operations in Manchuria are not considered as a foreign
war.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/435
SEE
790.94/30
FOR ___Despatch #.106.
FROM ... Japan
(...Grew.
--..) DATED August.26..l932.
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Extraordinary political conditions in Japan
at present time similar to the German
military hierarchy in l9l4 which was build-
ing up a war psychology.
hs

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00-P.R./57
111
SEE
FOR
FROM ....
Japan
()r) DATEDSep)932
xx
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
the influence of the military in internal affairs in Japan.
dow

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.79)
(1)
Larlumes of the Hilitary in Iaten
n
The military appeur to be leaving intermal arfatas i
the control of the politicians. This may be & tamporasy
state of affaire. There have been reports frem allable
sourses that detacimente of the army have been wwed to keep
order in various purts of the country and the situetion
re become so serious this winter the the Aray will play
a more rominent part in in hel ffairs.s the soldiere
come  noipel  ro th rur i tr ts whe conditions
er
the renk ond file
1
 they lleve
JC
1
ret. he prophets
nrly
yvtorte ay righ
e v rle  ials a
1
a ver,
to
*umbusey's dus acch No. 105 of August 25, 1932.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.79)
一19-
to forget that the militery loeders are in need of a great
deal of soney for their Monchurian uaventure and con-
siderine the 1 ited rs urees  t country their am
bitlomsdo not llow ror vory l rae a roort dons for
erayrurion
r r:t

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
437
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/437
GonRdential File
711.94/724
FOR MEMORANDUM.
SEE
FROM .State Department
(..Hornbeck) DATED Sep..12.1932.
TO
Division of Far
NAME
1-1127
Eastern Affairs
REGARDING:
Political conditions in Japan which may be
the cause of difficulties between that
country and the U. S.
Confidential File
hs

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
438
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/438
SEE
893.01-Manchur1a/504
FOR
Despatoh 5515
FROM
Harbin
(..)Hanaon.....) DATED ..Aug.a31,1932.
-TOI
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING: Political Memoranda:Enoloses copies of his despatch
#2401 of even date to Legation at Peiping,with its
enclosures,memoranda entitled "Tokyo Crisis Becoming
More Aoute" and "The Role of The Japanese Gendarmerie
in Harbin".
fpg

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.70)
A
FARRON
GYNA,
POO
he otelese bewtha eomy
dop s     y ate d to the Lap
et rei d à troom ans apies, in trsletn, of poliiunt
smorand.
py 
G. C. HANSON
Trie cony of
The orie na

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.67)
A  CAH GL
TEPOTT MO TLTOAL ERA.
parteen Yind eser,
Pet ylag, Cnins.
s   oi cos in l
of mresia in d to "Tapo Ctis Beg M ee"
 D E ete Jepoe Gda ia S, h
G. C. HAN8ON
opy of
glnal,

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.82)
1x一11
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS:
U: an. Sa
Line cnti(anite
nom Lep).
9 Lan manked and
anststed the biny
diut.
S
THE UNDER SECRETARY
17 1932
DEPARTMENT OF-STATE

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 17 1932
Ootober 12, 1932.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo's despatch No. 130 of
September 20, 1932, reports that the
new party (Kokumin Domei) of Adachi,
former Home Minister who caused the
downfall of the Wakatsuki Cabinet last
December, published its platform and
polioy on September 12. Although the
legal steps necessary for formal
official recognition as a party have
not yet been taken, it has been
announoed that they will be taken
before the Diet again convenes in
December. This party was a strong
factor in the recent extraordinary
session of the Diet. The press com-
mented favorably on the quality of the
speeches made by several of its
members. The name of the new party is
officially translated as the "National
League" although the Embassy believes
that "Peoples League" would be a more
satisfactory translation in view of
the party's principles. The platform
and principles need not be read as they
probably have as Nttle signifioance as
the platforms and principles of the
major parties.
LES: EJL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 20, 1932.
No. 130.
SUBJECT:
The Kokumin Domei,
A new Political Organization.
DIV
894.00/439
Copy in 7E
2.0
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
794.0
X
OCT 11 1932
Department of State
OCT 1 812
The Honorable
FILD
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Reference has been made in several of the Embassy's
recent despatches to a new party formed by Mr. Kenzo Adaghi.
It will be remembered that the chief cause contributing
to the downfall of the Wakatsuki Ministry last December was
the resignation of Mr. Adachi from the Minseito and from
the portfolio of Home Affairs. The Government collapsed and
was succeeded by the ill-fated Inukai Ministry.
During the nine months which have elapsed since his vio-
lent separation from the Minseito, of which he was one of the
ieaders, Mr. Adachi has spent his time in fairly successful
attempts

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
attempts to mould a new party with himself as its chief.
Recently, on September l2th, this organization made a publio
declaration, constructed a platform of three fundamental
planks, and outlined a thirteen-point policy based on the
1/2/3/.
principles of the platform.  There are enclosed translations
of these three documents.
This new organization is called the Kokumin Domei, of-
ficially translated as the "National League", although the
Embassy believes that "Peoples League" would be a more fitting
translation, in view of the party's declared principles.
Although the legal steps necessary to formal official
recognition as a party have not yet been taken, it has been
announced that they will be taken before the Diet again con-
venes in December, so that Lir. Adachi will be at the head of
an actual political party rather than a le ague.
Notwithstanding its unofficial standing, the Kokumin
Domei was a strong factor in the recent extrar dinary session
of the Diet. It claimed the allegiance of thirty members of
the Lower House, mostly recruited from the ranks of the Min-
seito, and took part in interpellations and debates on an equal
footing. The vernacular press in a number of instances com-
mented favorably on the quality of the speeches made by several
of its members, and took occasion to point out that with one
exception it was almost the only organization which had any
really constructive measures to oppose to those presented by
the Government. This of course it could do with impunity, for
it had no part in the coalition Saito Ministry which contains
both Seiyukai and Minseito elements.
It is worthy of note that with the desertion of these
thirty

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
thirty men from the Minseito, the Seiyukai has an absolute
majority in the Lower House, which ill be felt much more
strongly in the next session than in the last extraordinary
session, which was convened to pass relief measures only.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1. Declaration of the Kokumin Domei
2. Platform of the Kokumin Domei
3. Policy of the Kokumin Domei
800.
HMB:g
In quintuplicate to the Department
Copy to Legation, Peiping

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Ocspetoh No.130
From American Embassy
Tokyo.
DECLARATION OF THE KOKUMIN DOMEI
To develop the spirit of the founding of the Japanese
Empire; to prosecute the principle of international justice;
externally, to determine the standard of an honorable and
lasting peace; internally, to consolidate the economic system
under the control of the state and to create a new society
based on the principles of justice and freedom from extortion; - -
all these form the aims and objects of the Kokumin Domei.
The creed of the members of the Kokumin Domei is that the
Empire of Japan does not tolerate any international injustice
or unreasonableness to menace its national expansion and develop-
ment; that the Japanese people shall not have their livelihood
threatened by any social injustice; that the growth of the na-
tional strength and wealth of a state invariably contributes to
the advancement of civilization and the happiness of all the
nations; and that in a country or society enjoying true prosperi-
ty not a single law-abiding citizen should be left in a starving
condition.
The Kokumin Domei has been organized to accomplish the
aforementioned tasks, and we, the members, expect to attain
those objects by all means in our power with the ultimate aim
of realizing the establishment of a true national or popular
government. We appeal to our compatriots throughout the length
and breadth of the land to lend a helping hand in achieving our
avowed object.
(signed by all members)

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
ioure No.2
patoh No.
130
om American Embassy
Tokyo.
PLATFORM
1.
We s trive to clarify and abide by the spirit of
the founding of this Empire, and expect to reestablish the
principle of international justice.
2.
We expect to realize the principle of the solidifica-
tion and unification of the national economic system under
the control of the state, guaranteeing a living to the
masses.
3.
We expect to root out and remove the accumulating
evils in the political system, and to realize the establish-
ment of a perfect people's government.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
:ure No.
130
 No.
:m merican Embasy
Tokyo.
PROVISIONAL OUTLINE OF POLICY
1.
Measures aimed at the purification of national politics
based on the reform of the election system, including a reali-
zation of public elections in the true sense of the term and
minimizing the expenses to be borne by the candidates; also
measures making the post of Minister of Justice independent
of the Cabinet,and attaching judicial police officers to publio
procurators' offices in order to exercise rigorous control
over elections and to punish severely corrupt officials who
interfere in elections.
2.
Independence of the Department of Justice. In order to
assure the independence of the judicial right and to maintain
its uprightness the Department of Justice shall be made an
independent executive organ outside the Government, by which
means the evil of the prosecuting organ being controlled by
the Government may be removed.
3.
The control by the State of the major industries and
the monetary circulation institutions. As the central organ
for the State control of industries and money circulation a
central economic control department shall be established. As
a beginning the establishment of a control bank, and the nation-
alizationof insurance shall be carried out.
4.
The accommodation of low interest loans.
5.
The control and regulations of the price of rice, fer-
tilizers, and silk worm eggs, and also of the export of silk
yarn.
6.
The adjustment of monetary liabilities.
7.
The reestablishment of the maritime policy.
8.
The creation of a Japan-Manchukuo economio block. A
thoroughgoing exhaustive investigation into the economio re-
sources, market, labor, industrial possibilities, capital,

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
population, traffic and communication in Manchuria shall be
taken in hand as speedily as possible, on the basis of which
shall be formed a fundamental policy tending to contribute. to
the co-existence and co-prosperity of Manchuria and Japan. The
policy thus formulated to be put into execution as soon as pos-
sible.
9.
A fundamental reform of the educational system including
improvements in educational methods as well as the development
and advancement of learning.
10.
The creation of a central administrative organ as a
department of the Government to be named the Department of
Social Health, its function being to attend to and supervise
all affairs relating to public health, sanitation, the preven-
tion and relief of unemployment, the building of residential
houses by the State and other measures designed to contribute
to an assured livelihood for the people. The Department is
intended to be the instrument for the satisfactory operation
of social policies and the perfection and extension of various
social welfare projects.
11.
A reform of the taxation system.
12.
A crystallization of the policy toward Chosen and Taiwan.
13.
The cooperation of armaments and diplomacy. Armaments
and diplomacy are inseparably related, and expansion or reduction
of armaments cannot be satisfactorily carried out unless conduct-
ed in concert with diplomatic and administrative policies.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/440
SEE
894.00-P.R/58
FOR
#145
FROM
Japan
(__Gre) DATED_Oct.4.1932
NAME
1-1187
440
REGARDING: the political situation in Japan during the month of
September, 1932, which has been comparatively quiet.
dow

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.85)
1XT.
INALPOLIICALAOTIVI
The internel political situstion has remsimed com-
pereti vely quiet sinen she adjournsent or the biet on
Septon er 5th. uring the tet sossion the eiyukal pmrty
emused tle ovornnent great annoyance by ite oppositlen to
several f t overnset relief sills. It wus evident
that most of the members of ta  arty were woposed to the
overn ent, or at loaat tried to make e special impression
on their constituents by terming the Government's relief
projects 1nadequnte; yet, as e party, they were afraid to
tring ab t u frontal clemh with the Cabinet. he arty
probably feels thut it sho ld hay formod tro covaroment as
1
a gocd s jority in tie iet and she membars are
annoyed tat they are ot a: e t sleld the pewer they thi
1s due theu. However, 1t is doubtrul whether by overthreding
the present coalition Cobinst the Soiyukal would ferm a Cabinet
The party poasibly fearn that, if it succeeded in making She
Govermment rosige, politleians mould be so dimeredited in She
country that there would be fermed a fasslst goyarnsent over
whieh they would heve even less sontrol.
the lovernsent was mtromgly epyosed during the bist wese
slon by r. Aheehi's follewere, the Kakumln Denst. or hatiehal
Leages, whiah alaime abeut thirey manbere in the Lower house.
The the
primor

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.89)
The Govermennt's yrineipal support dartng ths
amvaion dame from the Minseito, whieh evidemtly eonsies
a coalition Cabinet preferatle to e Seiyukei Cabinet. mts
party, whlen hes loat several leadere In recont years, hes
now sufferec another loss in the death of r. Tawukn Bat on
Soptem er lyth. Although of a retiring nature he was one of
the rerty's ri cipel leodors am n's death removes one of
the few central figures whier vept the party together.
oue signiflernce as been attoched to a reeeat meeting
of oneral raki, tie ar inlcter, end other promiment ermy
mon with a group of  rominent bueinees wen for the pur poed
of leunchtng e movoment to raferm politios through the
odiwa of the X-service en's s cclation. This organizmtien
clai ms  wember: hi or about four ailllon and might serve as
o lever f r the ruy in trying to control the politioians.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
441
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.01-Manchuria/590
FOR
W.D.1114
894.00/441
FROM
France
(...Da8on..) DATED Oct.11..1932.
NAME
1-1187
is
REGARDING:
the fact that Japan/virtually ruled by a military dictat-
orship.
dew

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.75)
eris, votober 11, 1080
Y
1210
，。立主
Theretasy of tete.
mehington,  . C.
The smerieen Chergé d'affeirem ed Interie
forwards herewith Vr, Farrineton Daweon's
Striatly Gomfidential eport wo. w, D. llle,
dated ceteber 11, l938.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.77)
Peris, votober ll, 1980
sovielo.1il4.
TOTY O
errington ewson,
goiotant.
B T The Per antorn ltueticn
am informen by Jor Ladoux. former chler of the
freneh ntelliconce crvice, ttnt soecrding so savioes
Gommunlented to the 'reneh Govermment, the exsunaion of
Bolshevik influcnece throughout Chine, thresteming Japes
Itself, is lergely responsitle for she Jayamese polioy
Congerming Sanehuris. In escition to She someiserasion
of speelal Jepemese laterests in Hamehuriny whies are
impertant ia themsalves, Japan judped st neeempary 
estebliad a firaly orgaised bulmerk egainst sme weat
apred of solsevisn, so  to pretest not ly 
Itl  ,   ,  

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.79)
一
ment as well as the immuteble ohoreoter of the stond takpm
by Jepmn, is diepce:d to reso, nize Nenehurie, hopimg thet
the (rited tales wey be won oyer to at least a peasive
ettllude but beine renolved in mny svent sot to so mealmes
。
u sris comneeticn, s oppmern t bo mlgnirieen
tet recently soveral of wy ronot friende, who ere om
inlimete ter s wlth the rorelen  rrios, end whom I tave
hed reasus to suspost of trying in the poet to sooure
oplnions or lfermetion frut me to repeet it there, have
ueatiened e sbeut the  titusde of the dmimletration
t werds the tar aturis probles.
"aving been inetruoted on thin polnt by  r. armour.
who sbowed me before sls dsperturo some alreuler iaforme-
tios sont sut by the Departmont, I have avoided argamemts
or going iato eny detail but have meswered briefly shat
the Uniled tates would certainly not sanetien eny memeuse
in vielation of existine trestion roletive to the Far Fams.
the of my interlecutore, who is on partieulerly tmtime
ato torme with the Hertiot Covernment, replled emtarseteally
Trence latende to reogte the tato or umome ia
the very nesr futuree me you will hove to ds a mer er
Later is to elene to tnveke tretle vith h
bdy  h   l 
i

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.80)
reeson for introduoins cuch e prinoiple inve Per taateem
offeirr."
I then shonsee ss subjeet.
conrdin to emes asen jee, remen mbemeeder do
"ar let, whe hae rooensly returned home fros Jopen, aod
who wae foreerl
laint tr hino, tola hin ie a privato
r  d un n 
very reve. te country is virtuslly rulod by a militery
dietetorobi, and only u all ht evont would be meeded te
e yetallime the nltumtlom by troneformive tho virleal dide
tet rahi lns  e plese iligary diotesopehip.
mippes. dine Whetever the aili-
tery suthoritlee lell bim be wast do. xe for the now  Sate
of emehukuo, not ouly will dopen mainlain is, pefuming
even to dimeuss poesibilities of a revereal of the pemmibil-
i8y, but the fealins of the military rulere and avem of the
e untry at large is such that omy Japonese Govermnont which
attempted to codiry the stetus qwo would bo imedistely
averthrom.
otme informetive Fromeh megesime artéeles en this
goueral ubjeet will follow ia pert .  o  t.
(B1 g10d) WARRINGTÓN DAWSON

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
X7-10
a
H
Toky. drpatch.
The wmost yanet
i i
FE's igut.
SCH

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFA
ur STATE
Novemver8
NOV
Tokyo's despatch No. 165 of
Ootober 21, 1932, reports the growth
of moderate tendencies in Japan.
Until September of this year there
have been constant intimations of an
inartioulate underourrent of opposi-
tion to the military's adventures on
the continent and to the military's
control of the administration at home.
Sinoe September there has been more
definite evidence of the growth of
moderate tendencies, for example, the
failure of the various efforts of the
military to oust Count Makino, Lord
Keeper of the Privy Counoil, from
office, and the decision to return
Mr. Debuchi to Washington instead of
sending a more aggressive type of
diplomat which it is understood the
military desired. The Ambassador has
been repeatedly informed during the
past few weeks by highly-placed Japa-
nese that the moderate elements are
steadily gaining strength and that
they are sure that "everything will
turn out all right", although none of
them is willing to indicate the
probable

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
probable course which the moderate
element would take in the Sino-
Japanese controversy.
The first public evidence of this
growth in strength of more moderate
influences was an editorial in the
JAPAN TIMES of Ootober 8 which struck
a new note in Japanese comment on the
controversy, which is summarized in
the last paragraph on page 3. On
October 18 the TOKYO JIJI reported a
rumor that the Minseito is considering
a plan to displace the Prime Minister
with General Ugaki, Governor General
of Chosen and ranking army officer, to
curb the activities of General Araki,
because "so long as Lieutenant-General
Araki holds office as Minister of War
it will not only be diffioult for
Japan to improve her relations with
other Powers but Japan will be driven
to the verge of bankruptoy". This is
probably a trial balloon but it is an
indioation that there is a body of
opinion in favor of ourbing the
military. The courage required to
publish such a rumor indicates a
possible weakening of military
influence.
There

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
There is enclosed with the
despatoh a memorandum of a conversation
between the Reverend H. B. Benninghoff,
who has been connected with Waseda
University for 25 years, and a member
of the staff of one of the leading
monthly magazines. This magazine, and
presumably others, has received many
voluntary articles attacking the
Government's policies with regard to
Manchuria and the rest of China, for
the most part written by men of
prominence. These articles can not be
printed because the police would pro-
hibit the sale of the issue and impose
a fine. Mr. Benninghoff, who is the
father of Vice Consul Benninghoff,
feels that the oonservative section of
the people is muoh greater than it
appears to be and that any sign of
weakening by the military would create
an avalanche of disagreement. "A
revolution, although not at all
probable, is not impossible."
The Embassy takes it for granted
that the military party will not
relinquish control of the Government
without a struggle. The struggle will
probably take place in the next Diet
session

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 4 -
session over the army's demands for
larger appropriations. Some observers
believe that the military will meet
the orisis by bringing on a war with
Soviet Russia or by endeavoring to
detach North China so that the war
fever in Japan may be maintained.
There is, however, at present
not sufficient concrete evidence to
justify an assertion that the military
olique is losing or will eventually
lose its grip.
A
LES:EJL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
A
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
E
No. 165.
SUBJECT:
Growth origderate Tendencies in Japan.
F/LS
NOV 5 32
894.10
894.00/442
NJV 11 1932
Alo
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 7- 1932
Depertment of State
REOEIVED
The Honorable
NOV 17 1932
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
Sir:
Since the outbreak of the anchurian affair in Septem-
ber, 19l, it las een generally known that there exists
in Japan a considerable body of opinion which is opposed
to the drastic actions of the military party. This body
is composed of the more conservative elements of the popula-
tion (retired statesmen, diploats, college professors, et
cetera) who deprecate the alleged violations of Japan's in-
ternational obligations and the impending loss by Japan of
the high position which she has gained in the family ofgations,
FILED
a
K

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
and the extreme left group of the proletarians, who are op-
posed to all forms of imperialism. Occasional and faint
protests against the actions of the Japanese Army were heard
from these croups in the early days of the Sino-Japanese
controversy, but they were promptly and effectively suppressed
by the military. Dr. Inazo Mitobe was an exponent of the
first group. In a speech made shortly after the outbreak
of the trouble, he is reported to have said that the mili-
tarists were as great a danger to the steto as the communists.
For this he was hounded and threatened by the ultra-national-
ist groups until he fled the country and went to the United
States, wiere, according to press reports, he is now speak-
ing strongly in favor of Japan's actions in Manchuria -
possibly with a view to returning to the good graces of the
military  arty. An example of the second group consisted of
a small party of proletarians, who, about a month after the
outbreak of the Manchurian affair, began to march around
Tokyo wit! banners protesting against imperialism. They were
promptly arrested.
After a few incidents of this character, criticism of
the Army's actions was effectively stifled, permitting the
Army to proclaim to the world that Japanese opinion was un-
animous in its support of the military program.. The military
clique effectually controlled the press of the entire country.
Despite this assertion, however, the Embassy had received
constant intimations that there was an undercurrent, whose
strength could not be estimated because it was inarticulate,
of opposition to the militar: adventures on the Asiatic con-
tinent and to the military control of the administration at
home.
Since

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Since September, 1932, however, there has been more
definite evidence of the growth of moderate tendencies in
Japan. The continuance in office of Count Makino, Lord
Keeper of t e Privy Seal, despite various efforts of the
military party to oust him, is significant, as is the de-
cision to return r. Debuchi, the Japanese Ambassador to the
United States, to  is post in Washington, instead of sending
a more a ressive type of iiplomat which it is understood
the military party desired.
I have been repeatedly infcrmed, during the past few
Weeks, by Japanese who stand high in the councils of the
nation, that the oderate elements are steadily gaining
strength and that they are sure that "everything will turn
out all right", alth ugh none of them is wi lling to indicate
the probable course which the moderate element would take in
the Sino-Japanese controversy. One retired Japanese diploma-
tic official stated, however, that he believed that there would
be a return to the "Shidehara diplonacy".
The fi st public evidence of the growth in strength of
more moderate influences, however, consisted of an editorial
in the JAPA TIIES AD  AIL of Cctober 8, 1932, which, while
not directly criticizing the military group, certainly struck
a new note in Japanese conment on the controversy. Inter alia,
the editorial declared that "Chief among the failures of many
Japanese has been an inability to appraise correctly the
newer psychology which is being evidenced among the le ading
Western powers. . . . By the newer psychology we mean the
ideas and idealism now abroad in the West in regard to war and
peace and international relations . . . . not totake them in-
to consideration is for Japan to butt her head agai nst the
stone wall of world opinion . . . . Nor can Japan claim that
she

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
she has not had warning.... the nation insisted upon
sticking its head in the sand like the proverbial ostrich".
The TI ES AND MAIL was not suppressed for publishing this
unusually outspoken editorial.
On October 18, 1932, the TOKYO JIJI published a short
item to the effect that rumor had it that the Minseito(the
principal minority p rty) is considering a plan to displace
Premier Viscount Saito and to place General Ugaki, the pre-
sent Governor General of Chosen, in the position of Premier.
This is planned in order that General Ugaki, the ranking
Army officer, may curb the activities of Lieutenant-General
Araki, because the Minseito fears that "so long as Lieutenant-
General Araki holds office as Minister of War it will not
only be diffi cult for Japan to i..prove her relations with
other Powers but Japan will be driven to the verge of bank-
ruptcy",
This rumor is  robably in the nature of a trial
balloon, flown by the Minseito in an attempt to find an issue
upon which the party can return to power, and may or may not
d velop into an actual program. The point is, hovever, that
it is an indication tha: there is a body of opinion in favor
of curbing the military.
Moreover, the mere fact that a
newspaper dared to puplish such a rumor indicates a possible
weakening of military influence and a growth in moderate
tendencies.
As a further indication of the growth of moderate
1/
t ndencies in Japan, I enclose herewith a copy of a memorandum
submitted by Diplomatic Secretary H. M. Benninghoff, con-
cerning a conversation which his father, who has lived in
Japan for meny years, had with one of his former pupils.
The

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
The conversation well illustrates the moderate
tendencies among the more intelligent groups in
the population.
It can be taken for granted that the military
party will not relinquish its present control of the
Government without a struggle, as a political defeat
now would probably mean that the Army would be permanently
relegated to a secondary position of influence in Japan.
The strug le will probably take place in the next Diet
session, over the Army's demands for larger appropriations.
Indeed, the excessive budgetary demands of the Army for
prosecuting the Manchurian campaign and for carrying out
the military defense program may well be the rock upon
which the military party will finally come to grief.
Some observers believe that the military will meet the
crisis by bringing on a war with Soviet Russia, or by
endeavoring to detach North China from the Re ublic of
China, in an attempt to maintain the war-fever in Japan
and thereby assure their continuance in power. At all
events, they must save face, and if they should find
their authority passing , they- the younger and more
fanatical and hotheaded elements of the Army and Navy-
would in my opinion be capable of plunging the country
into any kind of disaster in an effort to maintain their
hold on the direction of national affairs.
The foregoing comnent is necessarily of an indefinite
and somewhat nebulous character. There is certainly
not

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
not sufficient concrete evidence at the present time to
justify an assertion that the military clique is losing
or will eventually lose its grip, or that a return to
the so-called "Shidehara diplomacy" is yet in sight. Even
assuming that the moderate element should gain control of
the Government within the not far distant future, it is
not at present seen in precisely what manner such a develop-
ment could materially affect the situation in Manchuria.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
Memorandum.
800-Japan
JCG:ERD/g
Copy to Legation, Pei ing
19
11
Berne

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
Ensiczuro No.
Dg
16.5
Prom Lsiiian EIbaBy
MEMO RANDUM.
Tokyo.
My father, Rev. H. B. Benninghoff, who is a
Baptist Missionary in Tokyo and who has been connected
with Waseda University for about twenty-five years,
had a conversation the other day with one of his former
students who is now on the staff of the Chuo Koron, a
general monthly magazine of good repute something like
the Atlantic Monthly or Scribners.
This men shoved my father a nunber of articles
attacking in greater or less degree the Manchurian and
Chinese po icies of the Government. He also said that
the magazine, and presumably others as well, was almost
swamped by voluntary contributions of this kind. The
articles, of course, vary in merit, but most of them are
written b: men of prominence and considerable education.
These articles, of course, the magazine cannot print,
chiefly because the police would prohibit the sale of the
i ssue and impose a fine on the management.
Although my father agrees that the military have
absolute control of the Government, he strongly feels that
the conservative and sensible section of the people is much
greater than would appear, and that any sign of weakening
on the part of Araki and Co. would create an avalanche of
disagreement. A revolution, although not at all probable,
is not impossible.
One of the reasons these people are so inarticulate is
that

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -
that their opinions would be immediately castigated as
treason against the Emperor, which of course would not
be the case except vith the most radical.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.92)
HEADQUARTERS NINETY-NINTH DIVISION, U. S. ARMY
Division of
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
IN REPLY
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
REFER TO:
S10 WESTINGHOUSE BUILDING
NOV 15 1932
TELEPHONE, ATLANTIC 89S
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
ove cer 14.
.W.894.00/443
r. Stonley K. Hornteck,
Chief, Division of Fer Eostern Aficire.
Deport eut of State,
"eslinston, D. C.
894.00/443
My deer P. Eorabecc
Actmorlea ent is  edc of your letter of
Yove sber 9, 1ses, wmecein vou sey there is being forwarded
to e  cow of s "Jopp ese hite Book" in tuo volures.
ill vou pleose lct e w if action in the vetter was
loyed, es the vole es lave not been received.
H.L.Landre
00
Very truly yours,
E. L. LT S,
Colonel, F.A. (DL).
NOV! R
FILED
1937
-1-

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
November 17 1908.
In reply refer to
FE 894.00/443
Colonel H. L. Landers,
894.00/443
Headquarters Ninety-ninth Division, U.S. Army,
310 estinghouse Building.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
November 14, 1932, stating that the copies of the two
volumes of the "Japanese White Book", referred to in
the Department's letter to you of November 9, 1932,
had not been received.
It is regretted that, due to an error, the
despatch of these copies was delayed. They have,
however, now been forwarded and should reach you
in due course.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
C
CR
S
NCV 17 1982.PM
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eestern Affairs.
urig-
m.m.H.
FE!LES/ZMF
FE
11/16/52

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.89)
WLAAk
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
HEADQUARTERS NINETY-NINTH DIVISION, U. S. ARM
NOV 4- 1932
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
IN REPLY
310 WESTINGHOUSE BUILDING
REFER TO:
TELEPHONE, ATLANTIC 
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
hovnbu 3, 1932.
Directn, Fai Easten Divisnin,
State Brfartment,
S
Conaligton, D.c.
Tmy Dear Sir:
It is regueatred that )
7. the Tafanese White Boodt. There are
at this Station, cind accasional eiformal
situation. Our Studiro wile be
mrch facil'tated did ewe have the
book asked for.
ly jons,
1N. L.danders
Colonce, Ficld Artillery,
M.s. amy.
NOV 10 1932
FILFD

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.89)
F
1
工
S
Colonel H. L. Landers.
894.00/443
Headquarters Ninety-Ninth Division, U. S. Army.
310 /estinghouse 3uilding.
Pittsburgh. ennsylvania.
ir:
In compliance with the request contained in your
letter of Novemher 3. 193n. for o copy of the "Jepa-
nose White Bouk" Tor ue use of officers at your
station, there is bein forwarded to you under
separate cover a copy (obtained from the Japanese
Embassy) of this publioation in two volumes, entitlod
THE PRESENT CONDITION OF CHINA WITH REFERENCE TO
CIRCUMSTANCES AFFEOT ING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND
THE GUOD UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN NAT IONS UPON WHICH
PEACE DEPENDS and RELAT IONS OF JAPAN WITH MANCHURIA
AND MONGOLIA.
Very truly yours.
rue co
the slamig
For the Searetary of State:
inal.
JNA
NH
524
FE!LES: EJL
FE
Stamley L. Hermbeek,
11/8/32
Chiof.
Divisiem ef Far Eastern Affairs.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 23, 1932.
Tokyo's despatch No. 180 encloses
a copy in translation of a circular
written by a fanatical member of a
so-called patriotic society; he is
apparently a junior officer of the
type
which assassinated Premier Inukai.
The object of the inflamatory and in-
coherent document is seemingly to
arouse junior officers against ceneral
Ugaki because of recent rumors that he
may become prime minister.
There is
also considerable invective aga inst
Count Iakino, edviser of the mperor.
The writer gives information with re-
card to the ussassination plots of the
past t:irteen months, esnecially with
regard to the part of junior officers.
In some instances his statements are
inaccurate as far as historical facts
are concerned.
The mbassy regards the document
as of interest chiefly as further evi-
dence of the lack of discipline and
unrest in milit ry circles,of the ex-
istance of fanaticel officers, end
of their potential aager.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
ilthcnh the d-cument is an inter-
esting o canple of unhulanced  triptism.
it need ot he read.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
7E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 180.
Tokyo, November 5, 1932.
SUBJECT:
Ciroular distributed by the Dai Nankokai
(Association of Patriots) of Osaka.
COPIES SENT TO
1445
894.00
F/HS
4
on
12y81 72
894.00/444
A
Division 6f
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ilopy t dtalegate,
NOV 22 1932
Seneva Disarm.
amens Confereve.
Department of State
D23, 32-
DEC8
The Honorable
FILFD
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/.
There is hereto appended a translation of a curious
docuent which is entitled"CIRCULAR DIST IBUTED BY THE
DAI NANKOKAI (Association of Patriots) OF OSAKA AMONG ARMY
DIVISIONS IN JAPAN". The original document was loaned to
the Embassy by a foreign newspaper correspondent who attaohes
much importance to it, and since it is likely to be published
in the United States, I feel it desirable to make the follow-
ing comment concerning it. The translation hereto appended
yas

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
was made at the Embassy, and because of time limitation,
is somewhat crude.
The writer is obviously a fanatical patriot, probably
a junior army officer, of the type which assassinated former
Premier Inukai. His argument is rather incoherent as a
whole and the language used is highly impassioned, which
unfortunately suffers in translation.
The purpose of this document seems to be to arouse
feeling among the younger officers of the Army against
General Ugaki and against the movement to place him at
the head of the Government. General Ugaki is throughout
the article branded as a traitor. The latter has been
menthoned in recent newspaper articles as a possible
successor to the leadership of the Minseito party, and as
such a candidate for the premiership. The writer's animus
probably grows out of the fact that a few years ago when
Minister of War, General Wgaki permitted army appropriations
to be reduced and effected a reduction in the number of
army divisions. Furthermore, it was General Ugaki who,
as Minister of War last autumn, used the gendarmerie to break
up the plot, referred to as the "October Affair" throughout
this document.
This plot was discussed in the Embassy's confidential
despatch No. 382 of November 7, 1931. It is general 1y believed
to have been engineered by the sampe group that later was
reported to have been implicated in the assassination of
Baron Dan in March of this year. Police investigations at that
time

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
time disclosed the existence of a considerable organi-
zation in which army officers were implicated (See Embassy's
854.00/382c8.
despatch No.561 or April 7, 1932). The "May 15th Affair"
refers of course to the events in which Premier Inukai lost
854.00/4/3
his life (See Embassy's despatch No. 624 of May 20, 1932).
In the course of the tirade against General Ugaki,
several interesting revelations are made. One is that
the writer (or writers) is in thorough sympathy with the
assassins of former Premier Inukai. Throughout the dooument
the word used for killing is "tenchu" which may be translated
as "heavenly punishment" or "death by heaven's will".
The writer apparently had access to confidential informa-
tion in regard to the activities of the reactionary army
group and to the proceedings of the court martials which
followed the May 15th and other disturbances. Of course
it is possible that these mattens are generally known through-
out army circles, although banned from publication and little
known by the public. Incidentally, the account of the events
of May 15th given in this document is the first which has come
to the attention of the Embassy.
Whatever his sources, the writer is weak in history.
He makes the mistake of stating that General Ugaki was
Minister for War at the time of the "Maroh Affair". (Page 5)
General Ugati was at that time Governor General of Chosen
as he is now. A still more glaring mistake is his statement
(page 9) "when Yamagata, Takarabe and Okada ----- came to
hold power in the Navy".....). Yamagata was a marshal in
the Army and is called the "father of the Japanese Army". He
had no partioular connection with the Navy.
The

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
- 4 -
The document is of interest chiefly as further evidence
of the lack of discipline and unrest in military ciroles
which has been noted by the Embassy from time to time. It
serves as evidence that the group of fanatical officers
which has been implicated in various reactionary disturbances
during the past year or more, is still in existence and may
still be regarded as a potential danger.
Although of consierable interest, I do not attach
undue importance or gravity to this document.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Edim I. taulle
Edwin E. Neville
Enclosure:
1. As stated.
lete adelain.
800.
WTT:g

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
melosure No.
D
180
os:Ly
Tkyo.
A circular distributed by the Dai-Nankokai
(Association of Patriots) of Osaka mong
Army Divisions in Japan.
(Officers, espucially young officers holding
the rank of Lieutenant and Sub-Lieutenant,
are requested to read this circular).
A great national traitor, General Kazunari Ugaki,
in conspiracy with Count Nobuaki Makino, the Keeper of the
Privy Seal, is plot ing to organize a new Ministry under his
Premiership. This scheme is kept strictly secret. It may
be safely said that the scheme has already been completed
because Count Makino who is a crafty man at the Imperial Court
constitutes the nucleus of the scheme, in which are con-
cerned currupt elements of the Navy who belong to the Satsuma
Clan, leaders of the Army and politicians who played an im-
portant role in the formation of the present Saito Govern-
ment. Traitor Ugaki is leaving Chosen for Tokyo a week
hence.
When we hear that an Ugaki party or an Araki party has
been organized in The Imperial Army, e are constrained to
think that The Imperial Army, which is under the direct
control of the Emperor, is falling into degeneration- a
condition which must not be allowed. There was a time when
the late General Giichi Tanaka, General Hanzo Yamanashi and
General

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
General Kazunari Ugaki successively held the office of
Minister of War, when the Imperial Army was regarded as
their ovm tool.
his is nothing but the destruction of
the foundational conception of the national character.of
Japan. All those who know General Ugaki and his motives
await the punishment of Heaven which will some day over-
take him . I. is but natural that under such treecherous
successive leaders who regarded the I perial Army as their
on tool, as above stated,such a treacherous scheme should
be contrived and launched. We Officers of the Imperial Army
should therefore make a firm determination against traitor
Ugaki, on our honor as officers of the Emperor's Army and
in the fulfillment of our duties.
Secrets should not(ordinarily)be exposed . But if
there is a secret which is of such a nature as cannot, for
the sake of the Empire, be left undisclosed even for a single
day, what shall we do? We Officers of the Imperial Army
are of course devoid of experience and lack of sufficient
knowledge of general puolic affairs. However, as regards the
affair of May 15, 1932, which is deeply related to us officers
of the Imperial Army, we are thoroughly informed of the actual
facts because our duties and responsibilities are involved.
Regarding the proceedings of trials at the Court Martials
in the Army and Navy wherein those i plicated in the above -
mentioned affair are now being examined, we officers are in a
position to learn the details more quickly and more surely
than other persons outside military circles ( as to the
leakage

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3-
leakage of secrets the public must not cast a suspicious
eye upon officers, because fathers, brothers, relatives,
etc. of individuals in official and private circles are
occupying important positions in Government offices).
Facts are elocuent testimonials.
General Kazunari Ugaki
is now disciosed in full view as a traitor.
We declare that we applaud the actions of the naval
officers and military cadets who have sacrificed themselves
for a purpose of starting a movement for the re-construction
of the Empire by, sweeping avay corrupt elements which occupy
important positions in the State. Notwithstanding the
great sacrifice above- cr tioned, the outcome was nothing but
Heaven's punishment inflicted upon the late Premier Inukai,
and but the fommation of the present Saito Government. The
Saito Government is, in reality, the Makino Government.
According to the minutes of proceedings, at the Naval
Court iartial, Sub-Lieutenant
Murayama wa: entrusted ith the
task of killing Count Makino up to May 14, 1932, the day im-
mediately preceding the day(ay 15) on vhich the Premier
Inukai was killed and other quarters were attacked.
How
ever, on May 15 Lieutenant Koga who was the leader of the
affair asked Sub-Lieutenant Murayama to kill Premier Inukai
instead of Count Makino as previously arranged, declaring
that he(Koga) himself would kill Count Makino. Accordingly
Sub-Lieutenant urayama penetrated into the official residence
of Premier Inukai and killed him. At the gendarmerie head-
uarters where all gave themselves up, Sub-Lieutenant
Murayama

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Murayama met Lieutenant Koga and questioned the latter
whether he had been successful in killing Count Makino .
To this Koga re lied that he had failed to do so. Upon
hearing this, llurayama gave a deep sign, tears flowing down
his cheeks(All are cagerly waiting the publication of
minutes of proceedings of trial at the Navel Court Martial).
Koga's failure was that upon arrival in front of Count
Makino's official residence in an automobile he(Koga) asked
his fe low-men to roemain inside the automobile and then
he threw bombs a inst the residence and disappeared. It
was quite apparent that by su ch a method it was impossible
for Koga to kill Count Makino, unless the latter happened
to be outside waiting for the bomb. Koge, after adopting
half-her.ed
this method, informed his fellow-men that he had failed.
By the c nfession of Koga before the Court Martial, a man
named Shumei Okawa was arrested.
is a result of trial
of Okawa, it was disclosed that the attempt on the life
of Count Makino was abandoned by an agreement reached
be ween Okawa and Koga in which the former took the lead.
Under the circumstances, Sub-Lieutenant Murayama is not the
only person enraged by the action of Koga! Behind Okawa
were Count Makino and General Ugaki all the time. By the
arrest of Okawa and by the seizure of what was called
"materials for the compilation of a History of Restoration
of 1868 " from the house of Okawa's concubine, Okawa was
obliged to confess ever thing before the Court Martial.
In the hope of releasing himself from his horror(?), Okawa
planned to protect influential personages as Count liakino
and

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
and General Ugaki in order to save himself by approaching
and conducting negotiations with the Hakino party and
the Ugaki party.
Apart from his co rupt uctions in adopting "secret
divulging tuctics" reg rding the October (19sl) affair and
the march aftair, tkawe seems to have thought that if
his aution shoula roree a crisis on the Ugaki party, the
latter arty would take meusures to save him (okawa) in
order to save the party. General Araki, Minister of Var,
and General uzuki, s istont Chief of the General Staff
Office,  o st nd againss  tgaki party, were panic-
stricken mid lia their best to prevent a further develop-
ment of the situation. Count Makino, availing himself
of his hi osition in the Iuperial Court, restricted
the investication of the jud cial cuthorities to merely
the ffeir of lay 15, le32, and r ven ed them from
Geins fur ther. he fact tha. General Araki and Mazaki were
cbliged to save the Ue i purty, to which they are opposed,
was a piticsle st te of afuirs.
In the October af air, Shumei Okawa  layed a part of
an infor ant to the Imperial Court. Corrupt elements of
the Iimperial Court were astounded, and it is now plain that
leaders of the Ugaki party Which are closely related to the
corr ut elements of the Imperial Court, took suppressive
measures to prevent the October affair. As regards the
March uffair, General Ugaki who held the portfolio of War
at the time, planned a ghastly tragedy through his lieu-
tenants. In so doing Gen ral Ugaki at empted to seize the
Premiership

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6-
Premiership.
Those in opposition to the Ugaki party regard the
above-mentiened affeir as a disgrace to the Imperial
Army. It is clear that the Ugaki party prevented the
examination of the af cir on the ground that its dis-
closures would badly affect the honor and dignity of
the Imperial Army. Kazunari Ugaki is neither a military
man nor a statesman.
General Ugaki, as Minis er of War in the Hamaguchi
Ministry, remained passive in s ite of the fact that
Premier Hamaguchi had infringed upon the mperor's pre-
rogatives over the Ariny and Mavy. As regards the London
Naval Convention, Fleet Admiral(Togo) of over 80 years
of ge, entertained a prehensions and uneasiness day and
night but Gen ral Ugaki remained undisturbed. As a result
of the death of Homeeuchi who was doubtless punished by
Heaven, the Minseito lost its leader. Im lediately a heated
competition was started among General Ugaki, Baron Kijuro
Shidehara, and Mr. Kenzo Adachi for succession to the
leaderchip of that party. Having realized that his ambition
could not be at ained through the machinations of politi-
cians, General Ugaki approached Mir. Shumei Okawa and contrived
a scheme, the nature of which was such as to give General
Ugaki a plea to resort to the use of troops. Such a scheme
was apparently a disgrace to the Imperial Army since its
inauguration and might have impaired the honor and dignity
of

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
of the Army at home and abraod. If the judicial authorities
had not been restricted by the issue of Imperial orders,
General Ugaki was sure to have been thrown into jail on a
charge of having violated the Constitution and attempted
to start a civil co.otion. Noting could be more unjust
and inhuman than the a  itude of General Ugaki who caused
Okawa alone to be & sufferer, and who still holds the office
of Governor-General of Chosen.
The Late Kanetake Oura,
when charged with bribery in connection with a general
election in which he offered bribes to parliamentary can-
didates with
view to enlisting them on the side of a pro-
Government party,was the Minister of Home Affairs at the
time. He was acc i. ed from the public trial at the hands
of public procurators by the special grace of the Emperor.
Impressed With the gracious Imperial fovour Oura resigned the
post and,retiring from public life, ended his days in seclusion
to atone for the disgraceful ac he had commnitted. When Okawa
was caught in the meshes of the law, Kazunari Ugaki hastily
came to Tokyo from Secul and inviting the reporters of the
metropolitan press to his residence made a statement
through his spokesman(a certain private secretary). He said
that as regards the arch affair it was merely between him
and Okawa.
he later development of the situation was at-
tributable to a certain Lieut. General and a certain Suh-
Lieutenant. In this statement, Ugaki who was then War
Minister,apenly mentioned the names of the traitors who
dared the crime and attributed its responsibilities to their
superiors

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8-
superiors and their subordinates, and meanwhile confessed
that x
, thereby surprising everyone. No wonder
that everybody who listened to the statement was aken by
surprise. It is the height of arrogance and insolence that
he who was excused from heavy punishment b the special
grace of the Imperial Court would remain in the exalted
position of the Governor-General of Chosen as he does.
Whatabrazen faced fellow he is, now that he craves the
premiership!
It is a woeful thing for the state and na tion that
Nobuaki Makino, whose wickedness is such as stated, con-
s ires With this Kazunari Ugaki. On the 15th of May when
the so-called May 15th affair occurred- it was Sunday-
Makino stayed at home contrary to his wont(he used to go to
his country villa on Sundays without fail) and confined
himself the whole day at his official residence as if waiting
for Okawa and his followers to carry out their premedidated
scheme. When the terrible incident took place that evening,
a motor car sped by the front of his official residence
leaving behind the sound of a single shot as if giving a
warning. Previous to May 15 the followers and servants of
Ugaki were full well aware of the forthcoming incident.
A majority of the navy officers and cadets(excluding Koga
and one or two others) who did not know the fact that behind
Okawa there were Makino and Ugaki pulling the wires, nay,
they even did not know Okawa- were thus made tools for the
formation of the Saito cabinet prearranged by Makino and
their

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
their lives forfeited. When Yamagata, Takarabe and
Okada who were all closely connected with Makino, came
to hold power in the Navy, they took under arrest those
navy officers who opposed the scheme(May 15th affair)
and put them into prison. The Saito Ministry, bowing
under the indignation of Heaven and the nation, is now
busy in forming a scheme to establish a new cabinet as its
successor  ith Kazunari Ugaki as its head.
he traitor Makino and the false Ugaki are the swollen
enemies of the nation. We state the true condition of
affairs cnd call for determined action.
Osaka branch of(Imperial Army Officers)
the Manko-kwai.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.93)
11
notes ios
REURTYED
001 22 1932
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
REOETV3D
SS  D Ay: letter
Tokyo, October 8, 1932.
of 5.20.64 from Donaid 1. Simon, State Dept.
JAN 2 3 193
ByGkldowlkdg moate 8-17-62
F
/HS
Dear Mr. Secretary:
794.
Since my last letter to you of September 10 the two
894.00/444-1/
outstanding events in Japan have been the recognition of
793.
Manchukuo and the publication of the Lytton Report.
The
hastiness of the Government's action in recognizing Man-
chukuo had a two-fold purpose: to confront the League of
Nations and the United States with an accomplished fact
before the Lytton Report could be acted upon, and to afford
2
a sop to the Army to prevent their wrecking the present
Saito Government and perhaps setting up a military dictator-
ship.
The net result has been the internal pacification
of the country which is a great deal less restive then
before the step was taken.
The Japanese were apparently surprised when no action
was taken by the United States at the moment of recognition
and that the step caused so comparatively little repercussion
in the world at large.
This feeling may have been one of
The Honorable
FILED
Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
2
1
Washington, D. C.
19
3

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
relief, but I am inclined to believe that the relief was
tinged with a measure of disappointment, because in the
present temper of the country the last thing the Japanese
really want is to be ignored by the nations.
They prefer
dramatics.
The reaction to the Lytton Report here has been just
what was expected - a general condemnation of the findings
and an outburst of self-righteous indignation, but without
any serious attempt to refute the findings save by blunt
denials of their accuracy.
This public bluster is however
not shared by the saner and more moderate thinkers of whom
one, Baron Hayashi, Master of the Emperor's Household and a
thoroughly outspoken man, recently observed to a group of
friends that he considered the Report an admirable and well-
balanced document, especially Chapter 6 indicating that the
Manchukuo regime had been set up by the Japanese military.
There are plenty of people in Japan who have serious mis-
givings as to where the Manchurian venture is going to lead
the country, but the press does not dare to publish their
views. The military are still completely in control.
In explaining the present psychology of the Japanese,
two recent conversations are significant. Recently Prince
Chichibu invited to dinner Frederick Moore, who has just
come from the United States and is to act as a counselor to
the Japanese Delegation at the forthcoming meeting of the

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Assembly of the League of Nations, and questioned him for
over an hour as to public opinion in America, finally asking
him point blank whether it is true that the United States
is actively preparing for war with Japan. Such a question
from the Emperor's brother is highly significant of the
present nervousness of the country.
The other conversation
was with the Secretary of the America-Japan Society, Mr.
Takeda, whose comments seem to me to size up the situation
as well as anything I have heard, and I therefore append
a brief resumé of them. The kernel of Mr. Takeda's remarks
lies in the statement that the Army undertook the Manchurian
venture because it felt that it would lose all influence if
it did not do something "for the good of the country". What-
ever developments may occur in future, there will therefore
enter into the problem the important element of "saving face",
so essential in oriental countries. Here, I think, is the
most dangerous factor in the whole situation. If the fanat-
ical military clique finds that its program is being impeded
and is likely to fail, whether from internal or external
influences, it is quite capable of plunging the country into
any kind of disaster rather than give in to the saner and
more moderate elements in the country and acknowledging the
defeat of their plans.
The affair of the National City Bank has closed with
the publication in at least two prominent Japanese newspapers
811.20294

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
of the Department's press release conveying the statement
of the Foreign Office holding the Bank blameless and its
motives free from suspicion. Mr. Curtis, the General
Manager of the Bank, expresses himself as fully satisfied
wi th the result of the Embassy's assistance and tells me
that the published statement had an excellent effect, es-
pecially in calming their Japanese employees. The spy
scare continues and instances of innocent American travelers
taking photographs or "counting troops" are frequently
published, but my impression is that the campaign has over-
reached itself and that its absurdity is becoming patent to
a11.
At least one reputable Japanese newspaper has said so.
The anti-Americen press campaign is subsiding, although
the military will probably not permit it to cease altogether.
Several rather friendly articles have recently appeared and
the President's message of sympathy in the apparent loss of
the Hochi flyers will have an excellent effect.
A promi-
nent American journalist told me the other day that he had
spoken to Shiratori of the absurdity of the fear of the
Japanese that the United States was preparing for war with
Japan, to which Shiratori replied: "Of course it's absurd;
do you think we would have dared to attack Mr. Stimson the
way we have done if we thought there was any real danger
of war ?".

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
The new Manchukuo envoy, Pao, is truculently asserting
to all and sundry that Manchukuo proposes to escape from
Japanese tutelage at the earliest possible moment, that
most of the Chinese ministers in Changchun are in the pay
of the Japanese but that he himself is "fairly independent",
etcetera, but I am inclined to doubt his sincerity.
He
has also expressed his opinion that Henry Pu-Yi will soon
become Emperor of a North China State, embracing Manchuria,
with his capital in Peiping. Some of my diplomatic colleag-
ues and foreign press correspondents seem to attach import-
ance to his remarks, but neither Lindley nor I are impressed.
The diminutive Pao, who looks like a child, will probably
continue to "talk big".
As for our own future policy, it seems to me more than
ever wise, while firmly maintaining our position with regard
to the Kellogg Pact, the Nine Power Treaty and the Open Door,
to avoid any unessential steps which might tend to re-enflame
public opinion and give the military further strength.
Friendly gestures such as the comments about Japan in your
recent speech in Philadelphia, the friendly nature of which
was finally acknowledged even by Shiratori, and the Presi-
dent's message of sympathy coneerning the Hochi flyers,
tend to help the hand of the moderate elements in the count-
ry.
This, I gather, is your own feeling. It seems to me

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
that the more the League's action on the Lytton Report
can be tempered with friendly and constructive suggestions,
the more we shall gain rather than lose in the long run.
Our only hope of the eventually enforcement of the peace
treaties in the Far East lies in encouraging the moderate
elements in Japan.
In this connection, a remark made to the Military
Attaché by a Japanese member of the General Staff is sig-
nificant. The officer said: "We are working over-time
nowadays from 8 till 6 because we have to run two separate
departments, the War Ministry and the Foreign Office".
Debuchi came in for an hour's talk with me last evening.
He has been very active making speeches almost daily to
all kinds of people, including the military, but taking
care that they should not be reported in the press. I
gather that he has set forth the position of our Government
clearly and fairly. He talked with the Emperor for over
two hours day before yesterday in the presence of Count
Makino and others; he says that the Emperor understands
our position perfectly and is anxious to stop the anti-
American press campaign and the chauvinistic war talk.
Debuchi said to me that if Chang Hsueh Liang will only
keep quiet, there will be no question of Japanese troops
going to Peiping and that it all depends on Chang's move-
ments. He expressed the hope that after the manoeuvres
of our Atlantio fleet in the Pacific it will return to the

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
Atlantic next winter, because its presence on the west
coast furnishes an excuse for much of the chauvinistic war
talk and military and naval preparations here.
This
thought I hear on all sides. I think Debuchi wanted to
get this to your attention, since he came to me directly
after seeing the Emperor.
He continually repeated to me
that the domestic political situation is now well in hand
and that the more chauvinistio military people are being
compelled to moderate their views. Of the truth of the
latter assertion I have yet to be convinced. I dare say
that Debuchi will be decidedly helpful in painting a true
picture of the United States and the attitude of our Govern-
ment - that we do not possess horns and a tail.
He can
do what I cannot do. This is a time when, on the part
of the American Ambassador, silence on political matters
in public speeches is golden.
Respectfully yours,
Joo6 Jew
Enclosure:
Resumé of Mr. Takeda's
comments.
Political despatches recently sent to the Department:
No. 130, Sept. 20, The new political organization Kokumin
Domei.
No. 131,
" 21,
Propaganda against the United States
in Japan.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
No. 133, Sept. 22, Japan-Manchukuo Protoco1.
No. 136,
n
23, Back to Asia Movement in Japan.
No. 140,
28,
Article by General Araki, Minister of
War, referring to the Back to Asia
Movement.
No. 145, Oct.
Monthly Political Report for the Month
of September 1932.
No. 147,
19
7, Spy Scares in Japan.
No. 149,
77
8,
Recrudescense of Anti-American Propa-
ganda.
No. 150,
n
8,
The President's Message to the Emperor
of Japan.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
RESUME OF MR. TAKEDA'S COMMENTS
Mr. Takeda states that, when the Army first started
on its Manchurian adventure, the people of Japan looked
doubtfully at the matter. Later, when the League and the
United States started to condemn the Japanese for their
actions, the people rallied behind the Army, like all
members of a family will stand behind one member who is
being attacked from outside. Just now they will not admit
that the Army was wrong, but, just like a family, eventually
they will admit that maybe the person who was attacked was
in the wrong.
. Any violent move against Japan now will
strengthen this family feeling and keep the Army in power,
but if everyone stays quiet for a while, there will be a
feeling arise against the Army and maybe the Shidehara
diplomacy will return.
Nations are like people; they do
not like to be disliked.
The Army is trying very hard to keep in power, and
they are trying to keep the people aroused. The National
City Bank affair was for the purpose of advertising the
Army.
They are trying to show the people that they are
necessary to the country.
That was one of the reasons
why they started the Manchurian affair. There was a feel-
ing in Japan that the country had to have an economic outlet,
but also the Army felt that it would lose all influence if
it did not do something for the good of the country. If

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
disarmament was successful, the Army would not amount to
anything in the future, so they had to act to save their
position.
The Japanese people are very nervous.
They are like
a boy who has hit another boy and is looking around fear-
fully, expecting someone to punish them. They will be
nervous until after the League meets to discuss the Man-
churian affair.
The Japanese Army's operations are really aimed at
Russia - not at present, but at some time in the future.
Japan is afraid of Bolshevism and feels that it must drive
Bolshevism out of Asia.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
November 3, 1933.
1p
Parsonal and Coniidential
y dear Mr. rew:
894.00/444-
I have read your pernonl letter of Ootober eighth
with my usual interest.
You have correotly diagnosed my polioy in respeot
to the present situation.
e have striotly refrained
fron any com ent on the  ytton enort or on the recogni-
sedso seethat
2
io ls uppareny misapreintlte the Japanese to have
their shot fais on the alr. The one thing that I am a
little inolined to disagree with is the suggestion of
the Japanese pacifists in respeot to the Amerioan fleet.
It is, of ocurse, a matter of purely Amerioan domestio
polioy where that fleet is kept, and the Pacifio just now
is the most appropriate place for it to be. The American
people would greatly resent any suggestion as to where they
should keep their owm fleet, but quite apart from that
however muoh, as a matter of saving face, the Japaness
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ámbassador,
Tokyo.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-
may wish to have the fleet sent to the atlmmtte
on the whole it has a very wholesome effeet upee
sentiments of both the Japanese military and the
Japanese people to realise that it is in the Peekips
any bearing on that question, as well as all other
questions.
very sinoerely yours,
PHNRY L. BITMSON
8 ELS:HER
A true eupy of
tho deapd cls

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.75)
A
: The smen pageo in
Jaanes mobad with
O'Flaherty's letter are
in rigrimal fa tramslation
enstrnd in Tiayo's dis-
h 2007hor5
1932, a tinde against
Ermt Hin bims iluch
you hae acaty .
121

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.82)
x1-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION QF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
wily
ak
To Npote com
tded
the dinfth from
the digest,
m. Salit)
264

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
THE CHICAGO DAILY NEWS
DAILY NEWS PLAZA, CHICAGO
DEARBORN 1111
ack.
Diviaion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
14.0
NOV 22 1932
November 18, 1932.
ber1832
State Department,
894.00/445
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
I am sending herewith re-
production of a pamphlet that was publish-
ed in Tokyo. Our correspondent, Junius
B. Wood, asks that an enlargement of
the 7 pages be forwarded to you with
the following instructions.
"To accompany Tokyo emhassy
dispatch No. 180 of November 5, 1932.
Sincerely yours,
Holoslakerty
Assistant Managing Editor.
BFC8
FILED
HOF:NW

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.70)
の
は家主經部の一し六帝國の再建過を爲さんが爲之進んて
議となつて流校前卷及士官候袖生諸君の心取行動に對して舉手敬禮を取て寸
ものてある取こ而方れだけの大多の性を横ひてたる所の者は
坎老の天臥と爲産内閣の不可朋る出現とだけてはないか。頭内閣とは
の之指示寸五月十四日十五日行日前日法
教師用を討取るべきは山少周つ六月山君はのき不內な且つ
な邸に於て天臥を行した程の人物てあるが故に君側の大奸を自巳の正

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.75)
ふらん大川
2

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.68)
SUB V
128

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.68)
走
此におていきと
2
中
2
6
2
π

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.78)
一
川
山
1川
く
11
と
大
11
15
1
1
3
2
H
7
2
人
C
凡
a
人
19
21
2
7
i3
1
1'
と
1
7
大
项
山
1に
2
1
1
3
り
11
下
B
用
1
个
1~
湘
i，
力
流
在
に
き
15
3
i
是
NL
山
自
11
陆
11
刑
1)
L
あ
1
U
と
に
2
C
つ
1:
と
公
广
1.
5
3
5
Y
5
山
3
)
了
1.
1
力
と
L
に
Aて
?1
况
大
二
L
1
1)
人
上
禾
ix
て
は
然
A
3)
1
2
公
と
1
大
1
1)
心
3
11
11
i
7
Y
11
1
石
12
4
它
2
石

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.92)
December 1 1988.
Mr. H. O. O'Flaherty,
Assistant Managing Editor,
The Chioago Daily News,
Daily News Plaza,
Chicago, Illinois.
sir:
The reeeipt is aoknowledged with thanks of your
letter of November 18, 1932, forwarding, at the request
of Mr. Junius B. Wood, a reproduotion of a pamphlet
whieh was published at Tokyo.
Your courtesy in this matter is appreciated.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
SAp
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chier,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
14
m.m.w.
FE:LES:KC
A true capy 
FE
11/28/32
the apoderia
1982
m
iaa

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.93)
PM RECD
WE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
3
7
5
Garis, November 15, 1932
COM
DEPARTMENIJUF SIAIE
NOV 2 9 32
1932
F/HS
WESTERN
4.l
SPECIAL REPORT
(No. W. D. 1134)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00/446
NOV 30 1932
Department of State
894.00
To the Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
forwards herewith Mr. Warrington Dawson's
Special Report No. W. D. 1134, dated November
15, 1932.
DEC
DEC 9 8 1982
PTTD
WD/DG
ω
11

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, November 15, 1932.
Serial No. W. D. 1134
SPECIAL REPORT
By Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant
SUBJECT: A Plea for Closer Collaboration
with Japan
FIGARO published on November 13, 1932 an article
by E. de Gulchen presenting a plea fc a closer colla-
boration with Japan and particularly for a feeling of
more complete confidence in that nation. He remarks
that the more deeply one goes into the Far Eastern
question, the more clearly it appears that one Power
is called upon to play a genuine part there if allowed
to do so but its financial possibilities at the present
moment are greatly diminished. This Power is Japan,
against which foreign powers generally, and the United
States in particular, have closed their frontiers to
prevent immigration although it is necessary that the
Japanese should leave their country in considerable
numbers.
The author goes on to quote various works lauding
Japan and he deolares that Japan has now settled in
Manchuria for the greater good of civilization and
intends

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
intends to remain since the acquisition was made at
the price of the blood of Japanese soldiers and the
work of Japanese engineers and tradesmen. He indeed
considers that the Japanese civilization is illuminat-
ing the entire vast region and he hopes that it will
extend farther south. He goes on to ask:
"Will Americans at least understand that any
moral and even commercial progress made by Japan in
the Celestial Empire can only promote any personal
transactions, even if they were to meet with a
certain competition there?"
My personal comment is that I should be greatly
surprised if this article were not paid propaganda
subsidized by the Japanese Embassy in Paris.
Very respectfully,
wanounglondawron.
Warrington Dawson
Special Assistant
Enclosure:
Extract from FIGARO of November 13, 1932.
In quintuplicate
851.9111/6a
WD/DG

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
PON ET L'EXTREME-ORIEN
LE JAPON ET L'EXTREME-ON
dront pas d'ajouter quelques commentai-
res aux articles si vrais et si complets pu-
bliés depuis quelques mois dans ce jour-
nel sur les affaires d'Extrême-Orient.
que nous fimes nous-même dans ces loin-
taines régions et par les lettres que nous
recevons fréquemment d'anciens
personnels.
et, en même temps, si épineuse, plus on
en suppute toutes les faces, plus on re-
connait qu'il existe une puissance qui pa-
rait appelée à un avenir réel, si ses pos-
sibilités financières, très diminuées en ce
moment, le lui permettent. Cette puis-
sance, c'est le Japon. Au début de ce siè-
cle, le marquis Ito n'hésitait pas à nous
dire, dans un entretien familier: « Si
nir à la hauteur de notre courage et de
notre patriotisme, nous ferons de grandes
à cet illustre homme d'Etat l'une des tà-
choses!
ches primordiales du Japon et ce n'est
que timidement,
avouait que la
extrème - oriental
dans ces cadres!
agent américain
qu'il serait très difficile aux Etats-Unis
de contrecarrer ce plan. Dans un article
nuancé et excellemment présenté, paru en
1926 dans la Revue de l'Asie Française,
le commandant G. Besnard estimait que
la « population japonaise se comportait
comme une onde qul bout dans une urne
trop pleine; ses iles sont devenues un
pôle répulsif pour un peuple pléthorique
et affamé; elles renferment 60 millions
annucl des naissances sur les décès étant
de bouches à nourrir pour une étendue
de 385.000 kilomètres carrés, soit 160 ha-
bitants par kilomètre carré, et cette den-
de 800.0001 En outre, cette terre saturée
ne fournit pas à sa fourmilière humaine
Ils nous sont dictés par le long séjour
suffisamment de riz! Dans de telles con-
de mort. Cette pullulation d'une race
remplie de vitalité sur un espace exigu
et pauvre, cette soif d'air, cette recher-
che de contrées neuves ou de l'hospitalité
d'être un luxe, est une question de vie ou
étrangère expliquent la politique exté-
rieure et militaire du gouvernement de
Tokio et excusent les visées impérialistes
des Nippons». Cette population est aujour-
d'hui de plus de 80 millions d'âmes, dont
15 millions en Corée.
Les lecteurs de Figaro ne nous en vou-
particulièrement les Etats-Unis, ont fer-
mé leurs frontières à l'émigration Japo-
Plus on retourne cette question si grave
L'expansion vers le Sud paraissalt être
De toutes parts, les Etats étrangers, et
maltrise du Pacifique
très timidement, qu'il
pouvait aussi rentrer
convenait avec peine
Dès cette époque, un
amis
pays, écrit le professeur Carr Saunders,
sait que sa population grandissante et
surabondante devra compter avec les plus
est menacé sans rémission. Les hommes
fortifier la situation du pays : la conquéte
de la suprématie exclusive sur des mar-
chés étrangers par les moyens habituels
de la pression diplomatique qui peut
même amener la guerre.
de pression sera de plus en plus utilisé
et personne ne peut dire si une guerre en
sortira. Le monde restera sous la menace
constante d'un conflit tant que le Japon
ne suivra pas l'exemple des pays conti-
nentaux et ne cherchera pas à endiguer
sérieusement l'accroissement formidable
exposé par le spécialiste éminent qu'est
de ses naissances (1).
discuter les visées du Japon sur la Mand-
chourie 1 Dans certains milieux, parfaite-
ment incompétents, on a étayé la Chine,
bouleversée, désaxée, en proie à mille in-
trigues, à mille compétitions, alors que le
administré. Certes, la politique a pu cau-
ser quelques fissures dans ce bel orga-
nisme, quelques dégâts, rappelant le mot
d'Alfred de Musset : « La politique, hélas !
voilà. notre misère.  Mais, néanmoins,
patriotisme admirable dont nous fúmes
nous-même le témoin ému. Au début de la
guerre russo-japonaise, un « grand > père
de famille japonais, connu par ses hautes
fonctions et en même temps un modeste
fonctionnaire nous écrivirent tous deux,
modelant presque leur texte : « Nos fils
embrassant peut-être pour la dernière fois,
nous leur dimes : « Si tu tombes, uous ne
 pourrons que nous cn réjouir, ctur tu
» feras plus encore honneur à notre
en modèle à certains de nos « internatio"
l'on habite ensemble, la mère et la nour-
naux ». C'est bien à la nation japonaise
que pourrait s'appliquer cette belle parole
de Bossuet : « La patrie, c'est la terre où
rice communes, qui lie les hommes par
luxueux et fourmillant de traits impres-
sionnants, paru en 1931 par les soins de
quelque chose de fort.?
la Soclété économique astatique de l'Bst,
nous relevons ces lignes : « Les Japonais
sont en téte des entreprises indusfrielles
avec 1.510 millions de yens en 1928. Puis
 Il faudra escompter que ce moyen
Tel est ce grand problème parfaitement
Et à la Société des Nations, on a voulu
nom 1 
Magnifique parole qui pourrait être citée
Dans le Mandchourían Book, ce livre
viennent les Russes, les Anglais.et, les
Américains avec des investissements bien
moindres. Les étrangers autres que leszda-
ponais en ont surtout dans le Nord et le
total en 1928 en était de 550 millions de
yens, ou 40 0/0 du total japonais. Sur cette
somme, 465 milions, ou 84 0/0, représen-
tent les intérêts de l'Union soviétique.
39 millions de yens. Ceux de la France,
mark sont dérisoires... Le travail est pres-
Viennent ensuite les intérêts anglais avec
des Etats-Unis, de la Suède et du Dane-
que entièrement chinois. Le nombre des
ouvriers japonais, coréens et russes est
minime. La population est de 28 millions
pays.
lisation. Ils n'abandonnera pas ce qu'il a
travail de ses ingénieurs et de mes com
merçants. La civilisation japonaiss rayon
nera comme un phare dans ces immenses
d'habitants, dont 228.000 Japonais, 607.000
chourie pour le plus grand bien de la civi-
acquis au prix du sang de ses soldats, du
contrées, en attendant — souhaitons-le —
qu'elle s'étende plus au Sud.
quc toute avance morale et même com-
merciale du Japon dans le Céleste Empire
ne pourra que faciliter leurs transactions
manoff, les grandes puissances ne sont pas
personnelles, même s'ils devaient y ren-
contrer une certaine concurrence.
en mesure d'exercer sur le Japon une pres-
sion sensible (1). Absorbées par les événe
ments européeus, par le cauchemar alle-
mand, pourraient-elles détacher des for-
poser aux plans japonais ? Alors, pourquoi
érgotor, pourquoi discuter à perte de vue,
avons tant besoin, la France surtout, en
Indochine, et dont nous dépendons en
Neue Zürcher Zeitung le professeur alle-
demeure épouvanté à la lecture du récit
dramatique que vient de faire dans la
s'est rencontré entièrement avec M. Fran-
çois Ccty, dont il corrobore tous les ren-
seignemenls. Dans la ville de Jui-Kin, au
s'est tenu récemment un congrès de 610 dé-
Kiangsi, près de la frontlère du Fokien,
légués et qui a pris le nom audacieux
de Premier Congrès panchinois des So-
viets. Le but de cette assemblée démocra-
tique est la destruction de la féodalité,
l'amélioration progressive du niveau de
la vie des paysans, la confiscation de la
grande propriété et la nationalisation du
sol.
Les Américains comprendront-ils enfin
Voici donc le Japon implanté en Mand-
D'ailleurs, ainsi que le constate M. N
La force de l'armée soviétique dans cette
tonlr que, dans lee district
sont, moralement tont dn
Chine, comme en 
grandes villes (Chahghal, B
plus algu dans la and chi
tafres. On geut san orainte
domination bolchevtite11 1
gerait diplomatiquement c
fánanciors lui suffisent, es
japonaises sont, en ce
ébranlées, hélas ! Mom ém
Payen le démontrait lunán
les Débats, le 11 sephaabr
Japon, nous avions' pris
magnifique, en plein Pacif
Yokohama-San-Francisto.
spectacle qui s'offrait à
étions attardé fusqu'à une
tin sur le pont du navire
tardive, un petit homa
à l'allure martiale, s'ap
nous invita à le suivre
C'était le commandant I
dant quelques instants,
muets devant l'immensit
s'étalt, sous l'emprise de
mêt I Tout à coup. un é
Soleil Levant qul se déta
lunaires !
vous, me dit-il, notre drap
l'almosphère, enroulé a
vent l'en arracha, et il s'á
de la mer, laissant voir 1
mervellleusement illuminé
Le commandant devint:
au dnolns, de quelques-une
Il y a quelques annéés
Le drapeau de l'Empir
aprés an instant de
es, loin
, les con-
"ne race
ats-Unis
e vie ou
ent.
es loin-
1.t, qu'il
ne urne
orialistes
:8 en ce
:t aujourr
1e Japon
.nportait
gers et
on Japo-
e puis-
ait que
ait être
humaine
recher-
spitalité
1e exté-
es, dont
e jour-
si grave
és pos-
e et de
grandes
ce n'est
qué, un
paru en
nent de
:lets pu-
ie nous
s l'ave-
acifique
millions
és étant
ont fer-
plus on
ançalse,
lues un
horique
tte den-
xcédent
en vou-
mentai-
160 ha-
séjour
on re-
qui pa-
étendue
à nous
rentrer
des tà-
saturée
ce siè-
article
peine
amis
pays, écrit le professeur Carr Saunders,
sait que sa population grandissante et
de la pression diplomatique qui peut
surabondante devra compter avec les plus
graves difficultés. Le niveau de la vie
est menacé sans rémission. Les hommes
d'Etat japonais ne voient qu'un moyen de
fortifier la situation du pays : la conquéte
chés étrángers par les moyens habituels
même amener la guerre.
de la suprématle exclusive sur des mar-
de pression sera de plus en plus utilisé
et personne ne peut dire si une guerre en
sortira. Le monde restera sous la menace
constante d'un conflit tant que le Japon
ne suivra pas l'exemple des pays conti-
sérieusement l'accroissement formidable
exposé par le spécialiste éminent qu'est
le professeur Carr Saunders.
Japon est fortement charpenté, fortement
ser quelques fissures dans ce bel orga-
vollà. notre misère.  Mais, néanmoins,
patriotisme admirable dont nous fúmes
fonctionnaire nous écrivirent tous deux,
nentaux et ne cherchera pas à endiguer
de ses naissances (1). 
discuter les visées du Japon sur la Mand-
ment incompétents, on a étayé la Chine,
bouleversée, désaxée, en proie à mille in-
administré. Certes, la politique a pu cau-
l'empire japonais a pu garder encore un
nous-même le témoin ému. Au début de la
guerre russo-japonaise, un « grand > père
chourie ! Dans certains milieux, parfaite-
trigues, à mille compétitions, alors que le
nisme, quelques dégats, rappelant le mot
d'Alfred de Musset : « La politique, hélas !
modelant presque leur texte : « Nos fils
viennent de partir pour le front et, en les
nous leur dímes : « Si tu tombes, nous ne
quelque chose de fort.
sont en téte des entreprises industrielles
de famille japonais, connu par ses hautes
fonctions et en même temps un modeste
embrassant peut-ètre pour la dernière fois,
en modéle à certains de nos « internatio
naux . C'est bien à la nation japonaise
que pourrait s'appliquer cette belle parole
de Bossuet : « La patrie, c'est la terre où
l'on habite ensemble, la mère et la nour-
rice communes, qui lle les hommes par
sionnants, paru cn 1931 par les soinis de
la Société économique astatique de l'Est,
nous relevons ces lignes : « Les Japonais
avec 1.510 millions de yens en 1928. Puis
»
luxueux et fourmillant de traits impres-
 Il faudra escompter
Ét à la Société des Nations, on a voulu
Tel est ce grand problème parfaitement
pourrons que nous en réjouir, cur tu
Dans le Mandchourian Book, ce livre
Magnifique parole qui pourrait être citée
(1) Neue Zürcher Zeitung.
feras plus encore
nom / 
honneur à notre
que ce moyen
39 millions de yens. Ceux de la France,
contrées, en attendant — souhaitons-le —
qu'elle s'étende plus au Sud.
viennent les Russes, les Anglais et. les
moindres. Les étrangers autres que les Ja-
yens, ou 40 0/0 du total japonais. Sur ceite
somme, 465 milllons, ou 84 0/0, représen-
Coréens, 102.000 ressortissants des autres
pays. 
travail de ses ingénieurs et de ses com-
merçants. La civilisation japonaise rayon-
manoff, les grandes puissances ne sont pas
Américains avec des investissements bien
ponais en ont surtout dans le Nord et le
total en 1928 en était de 550 millions de
tent les intérêts de l'Union soviétique.
Viennent ensuite les intérêts anglais avec
des Etats-Unis, de Ia Suède et du Dane-
mark sont dérisoires... Le travail est pres-
que entièrement chinois. Le nombre des
ouvriers japonais, coréens et russes est
minime. La population est de 28 millions
d'habitants, dont 228.000 Japonais, 607.000
chourie pour le plus grand bien de la civi-
lisation. "Ils n'abandonnera pas ce qu'il a
acquis au prix du sang de ses soldats, du
nera comme un phare dans ces immenses
que toute avance morale et mème com-
merciale du Japon dans le Céleste Empire
personnelles, même s'ils devaient y ren-
contrer une certaine concurrence.
demeure épouvanté à la lecture du récit
mand Schüler, sur le mouvement commu-
ne pourra que faciliter leurs transactions
en mesure d'exercer sur le Japon une pres-
sion sensible (1). Absorbées par les événe-
ces suffisantes dans le Pacifique pour s'op-
ergoter, pourquoi discuter à perte de vue,
Indochine, et dont nous dépendons en
Extrême-Orient pour une large part ? On
dramatique que vient de faire dans Ja
Neue Zürcher Zeltung le professeur alle-
s'est rencontré entièrement avec M. Fran-
seignements. Dans la ville de Jui-Kin, au
légués et qui a pris le nom audacieux
ments européens, par le cauchemar alle-
mand, pourraient-elles détacher des for-
poser aux plans japonais ? Alors, pourquoi
pourquof froísser une nation dont nous
avons tant besoin, la France surtout, en
niste dans le centre et le sud chinois. Il
çois Coty, dont il corrobore tous les ren-
Kiangsi, près de la frontière du Fokien,
s'est tenu récemment un congrès de 610 dé-
lique est la destruction de la féodalité,
l'amélioration progressive du niveau de
la vie des paysans, la confiscation de la
grande propriété et la nationalisation du
partie de la Chine est de trois cent mille
de Premier Congrès panchinois des So-
sol.
viets. Le but de cette assemblée démocra-
Les Américains comprendront-ils enfin
Voici donc le Japon implanté en Mand-
D'ailleurs, ainsi que le constate M. Ne-
La force de l'armée soviétique dans cette
hommes répartis en six continge
guerre doit nourrir la guerre. Quam
ville tombe aux mains des rouges,
pillée. Loraque l'on songe que la
communiste n'a guère commencé.
enseignée qu'en 1920 par quelquea
des progrès faits en douze ans !
Chine, comme en Europe, a été Pun
leviers de l'agitation communiste avec
revendications d'un jeune prolétariat des
Le problème agraire est d'ailleura bien
le nord, où l'on comple 80 % de proprié
taires. On peut sans crainte d'erreur sou
tenir que, dans les districts du centre et
du sud chinols, 80 millions d'habitants
sont, moralement tout au moins, sous la
domtnation bolcheviste Il Et l'on s'insur-
gerait diplomatiquement contre la seule
tre un frein à up pareil débordement de
ébranlées, hélas 1 Mon éminent ami Ed.
bafeau japonaia qui desservait la ligne
lectuels, notamment à Pékin, on reste
grandes villes (Changhaï, Hankéou, etc..)
plus aigu dans le sud chinois que dans
puíssance qui pourra, avec le temps, met-
passions et d'appétits, si ses moyens
financiers lui suffisent, car les finances
Payen le démontrait lumineusement dans
les Débats, le 11 septembre dernier.
Japon, nous avions pris place sur un
magnifique, en plein Pacifique, nous nous
étions attardé fusqu'à une heure du ma-
tin sur le pont du navire, contemplant le
tardive, un petit homme aux yeux fns,
nous invita à le suivre sur la passerelle.
C'était le commandant ! Et tous deux, pen-
s'était, sous l'emprise des fluctuations de
vent l'en arracha, et il s'étendit au-dessus
vous, me dit-ll, notre drapeau national qu
flotte flèrement. dominant ls Paciaqus.
Ii est l'image de nós aspirations, ou fout
japonaises
spectacle qui s'offrait à nous. A cette heure
à l'allure martiale, s'approcha de nous et
muets devant l'immensité !
F'atmosphère, enroulé autour du grand
mát ! Tout à coup, un brusque coup de
de Ia mer, laissant voir le globe d'or du
merveilleusement illuminé par les rayóna
au moins, de duelques-unes d'entre elles.»
Pals, après un instant de allénce, dl rapeit
Yokohama-San-Francisco. Par une nuit
dant quelques instants, nous demeurámes
lungires !
Le problème agraire, quí se pose
Il y a quelques années, revenant
Le drapeau de l'Empire du Soleil Levant
Le commandant devint radieux. «Voyes
naise. Et pourtant, il faut que le Japon
fasse
(1) Neus Zürcher Zeitung.
partie de la Chine est de trois cent milla

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
THE UNDER SECRETARY
EC 27 1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 1, 1932.
The first two attached reports
of Warrington Dawson of November 15
and 19, 1932, give,résumé of an
article in FIGARO by Dr. Legendre
oriticizing the Lytton Report for
being pro-Kuomintang and for
attempting to justify the "false
conception" that Manchuria should
remain Chinese.
The third report of Warrington
Dawson of November 15, 1932, gives
a résumé of an article in FIGARo of
November 13 plead ing support of
Japan by the other Powers and laud-
ing Japan's civilizing effects in
Manchuria.
The fourth report of Warrington
Dawson of November 19, 1932, gives a
summary of an article in LE PETIT
PARISIEN of November 17, 1932, sup-
porting the Japanese.
In these last two despatohes
Mr. Dawson states that the tone of
the artioles leads him to feel that
the writers were paid by the Japanese
Embassy at Paris.
LES: EJL

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.93)
RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
WE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
V
Paris, November 19,A932.
D.FATMENT CF STATE
NOV 29 32
DEC 2741932
894.00
m
F/HS
WESTERN E
DIVS OF
894.56
SPECIAL REPORT
Ail
(No. W. D. 1142)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00/447
X
NOV 30 1932
Department of State
DEC 2 8 1932
To the Secretary of State,
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
forwards herewith Ir. Warrington Dawson's
Special Report No. W. D. 1142, dated November 19,
1932.
DEC19
FILED
WD/DG
CoD.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, November 19, 1932.
Serial No. W. D. 1142.
SPECIAL REPORT
By Warrington Dawson
Special Assistant
SUBJECT: The Problem of Japan's Emigration
LE PETIT PARISIEN published on November 17th
a leading article by Andrée Vigllis entitled "Under
the Japanese Mask--The Overflowing Population and
Emigration."
A statistical and historical résumé of the
Japanese emigration question leads this writer up
to a discussion of the policy of the United States
on the subject, accepting Andre Siegfried's book on
the United States as an authority on the conditions
which lead up to "the total eviction of Japanese
immigrants."
The l924 law against Asiatic immigration is
stated to have dealt to Japanese pride a wound which
continues to bleed, causing the Japanese to believe
that only a war causing American blood to flow can
give them satisfaction.
The general

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The general tone of this article confirms me in my
belief, already suggested in the conclusion of Special
894.00
Report No. W. D. 1134 of November 15, 1932 that the
Japanese Embassy in Paris is probably spending large
sums influencing the French press for purposes of
Japanese propaganda.
Very respectfully,
Cwarongton Dawkon.
Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant
Enclosure:
Extract from LE PETIT PARISIEN of November 17, 1932.
In quintuplicate
851.9111/6a
WD/DG

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
Sous le masque
tion, pouvons-nous concevoir un pa-
rell fléau?
japonais
Le gouvernement japonais ne
cesse d'y penser. Comment endiguer
ou détourner ce flot montant qui
LA DEBORDANTE POPULATION
menace de submerger le pays ?
ET L'EMIGRATION
On dit que certains ascètes nip- Il y a bien ce que l'on appelle le
pons, dégoûtés du progrès et de la contrôle des naissances. Il fut ou-
civilisation occidentale, se retirent, vertement pratiqué pendant trois
pour y méditer, dans la solitude. Je siècles, du xv au xix, au temps où
veux bien le croire. Mais où la le Japon s'était isolé du monde. Les
trouvent-ils? D an s ces régions Shoguns, ces hommes perspicaces,
montagneuses, envahies par la prévoyant le danger, avaient décidé
jungle, qui restent, paraît-il, aussi que l'Empire ne dépasserait pas
désertes qu'aux premiers jours de vingt-cinq millions d'habitants. La
la création ? Peut-être. Car partout limitation des naissances était non
ailleurs la solitude au Japon semble seulement permise, mais l'avorte-
bien un mythe.
ment était légal et même, dans
Parcourt-on, en chemin de fer certains cas, imposé, sous peine de
ou en auto, les régions cultivées du condamnations rigoureuses.
pays, que ce soit le long des côtes L'empereur Meiji, après avoir ou-
déchiquetées ou dans les plaines creu- vert les frontières du pays, se con-
sées de profondes vallées, à peine forma pour cette question aux prin-
aperçoit-on de temps à autre un cipes européens et adopta même la
coin sans toit. Les vilies rejoignent législation française qui réprime
les villages et ceux-ci se succèdent sévèrement toutes les pratiques ten-
presque sans transition. L'on ne sait dant à diminuer le nombre des
jamais trop quand finit l'un et quand naissances.
l'autre commence. Et serrés dans les Cependant, en 1927, au temps du
rues interminables, trottant le cabinet Tanaka, le danger se préci-
long des routes, courbés dans les sant, on décidait d'en revenir aux
champs, accrochés aux rivages, sus- vieilles idées du temps des Shoguns.
pendus aux pentes, pullulent et Des médecins spécialistes étudièrent
grouillent des millions d'êtres jau-!3 moyens de limiter les tendances
nes, agiles et prolifiques. Humanité trop prolifiques des Japonais, et des
décente d'ailleurs et qui n'a rien de conférenciers venus des Etats-Unis
l'ordinaire pouillerie asiatique, mais furent chargés de répandre par le
qui doit trouver du travail, de la pays les éléments du malthusia-
nourriture, des vêtements et qui se nisme.
gonfle, flue et reflue, déborde dans Mais cette propagande n'atteignit
de trop étroites frontières.
pas ceux auxquels elle était destinée:
Angoissant problème. La popula- l'énorme masse des travailleurs et
tion du Japon qui, jusqu'à la Res- des paysans étant trop ignorante et
tauration, était demeurée limitée, a trop insouciante pour tirer de ces bel-
triplé en un demi-siècle ; en dix ans les théories des conclusions prati-
elle a augmenté de huit millions, et ques. Par contre, elles firent dans les
c'est maintenant à la cadence de milieux intellectuels et bourgeois de
plus de 900.000 par an qu'elle tels ravages que les autorités, crai-
s'accroit. Pour un territoire de gnant de voir chanceler l'antique
380.000 kilomètres carrés (alors morale et disparaitre l'élite du pays,
que celui de la France atteint arrêtèrent la campagne de conféren-
550.000), le Japon proprement dit, ces. Toutefois, elles ne défendirent
au recensement de 1930, comptait point de diffuser par la voie de la
64 millions d'habitants, 83 millions presse les notions nécessaires au
avec la Corée, Formose et les petites contrôle de la natalité.
fles. Ce qui est déjà joli. Mais si Parmi les Japonais fascistes, il en
r'on prend uniquement pour base la est d'ailleurs, et en nombre, qui s'op-
surface cultivée, productrice, on ar- posent à cette campagne.
rive, en densité de population, à - La population d'un pays est un
l'énorme chiffre de 960 habitants par des signes de sa force et de sa vita-
kilomètre carré, alors que la Belgi- lité, disent-ils. Elle peut. elle dolt
devenir un aiguillon, un levier d'action
que, où pourtant aucune parcelle du
et d'expansion. Le malthusianisme est
sol n'est perdue, n'en compte que
une preuve de décadence. Et l'Empire
804, l'Angleterre 226, la Erance 108
japonais en est a l'ascension...
Quelques-uns ajoutent même :
- Un peuple qui étouffe ches tui
est obligatoirement, mécaniquement.
lutter contre un mal contrafre, ou
contraint à la guerre et à la conquête.
du moins ce qu'on appelle un mal,
Andrte VIOLLI&
nous qui avons entendu tant de

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.92)
Sans en arriver, du moins ouverte-
proposition japonaise contre « toute
ment. à des conclusions aussi belit-
distinction de droit ou de fait basée
queuses, le gouvernement japonais a
sur la race ou la nationalite . Enfn.
cherché au problème d'autres solutions
en 1924. lot formelle qui interdit abso-
qui ne diminueraient pas les forces
lument l'immigration asiatique, Japon
vives de l'Empire.
compris.
Il a envisagé la mise en valeur du
Ce fut pour la seconde fois une
territoire national en améliorant les
plessure vive dont l'orgueil nippon
terres déja cultivées et en défrichant
saigne encore. Beaucoup de Japonais
les terres incultes. Mais pour augmen-
estiment qu'il faudrait une guerre et
ter la production des terres cultivées.
du sang américain pour la laver et la
il faut des engraes et ils sont trop coû
guerir.
teux pour que le pay-an puisse se les
Ce ne sont pas seulement les Etats-
procirer avee ses propres ressoures
Ums qui s fermanent a lemigration
Sans doute une partie de pemprunt
japonatse. moos les Phiippmes, ou se
des 50o mittons de yons voté dernié
trouvent encore 150 o00 Japonais dont
rement par la Diète sera til vonsa ré
! nombre diminue Fentement. Quatre
an progrès d'une erniture plus mo-
ans plis tard. ie Canada. qui iite
derne et piua rationnelle. Il sombie. du
toujours ses puissants voisins yankees.
teste qie dans beancoup de régons
nterdi e à son tour n territer
a la r vute La Chere proprement
pgre d prfecon rt ne p
dite devenaet a son tour hostile et les
Ar ave
morm nt: 5 ooo Ninpes uum y trouvaient en
et e proprn ne pn
ros  vovcoa  contran
émigrints
Y
Vorta
ogtement en
forme dat dee rte:rpe four
pEs S Spdesor
mans. t Mrendelroee Le apon
V av ot dejt ente depu 190s un cor
vriers jape   cnt cmployés dana
Pptr.  payan  
es chemin 1o tor 1: mnes dane
de proy es  de pte: termeera bor
11
Rebutes  aur: ps po ons sles, à lens
rournerer z sux, préférant une algues a leur fomeuse saree le
misère conno.
 shoyu adkon. ce radis
Coux qu! sont restés. par contre. à la terribie odeur qn est le condi-
commencent à s'accoutumer, is con-; ment obligatoire de tous leurs mets.
sentent à éehanger leurs maisonnettes
ils eurent d'abord peine à lutte' con-
de bois con're de solides maisons de
tre lea rudes et sobres Chinois du
pierre. leurs casaques de toile contre
Nord. On ne les trouvait guère que
des vetements de tourrure et, délais-
dans la Mandchourie méridionale et
sant ie riz, s'habituent pen à peu a la
surtout comme fonetionnatres des che-
viande. Ieurs enfants. adaptés. for.
mins de fer. industriels, commerçants.
meront one race plus forte et plus
Peu d'ouvriers et de paysans L'an
résistante.
dernier contre 28 mullions de Mand
L'Hokkaide, pourtant. ne peut hos-
chous et de Chino's. il n'y avait encore
pitaliser tous les Japonais en surnom-
que 220 000 Japonais et 1 100 000 Co.
bre. Lo remede, en partie efficace, est
réens Encore parmi ces derniers
insuffisant.
comptait-on nombre de naturalisés on
assimilés Chinois.
Reste l'émigration. Mais l'émigra-
Aujourd'hut. la nécessité et l'ambi-
tion s'est limutée juqu'a devenir pres-
tion japonaise parlent ferme. Et c est
que impossibie. 1 y a méme pour les
par masses que déharquent les immo-
Japonais en même temps qu'une cause
grants japonais. des jeunes gens sur-
de cuisant souci, un sujet de perpé-
tout, avec armes et bagages. Les
tuelle amertume.
armes ne sont pas là un vain mot.
Depuis une dizaine d'années, la plu
car on leur a donné de fusils. des
part des pays d'Asie et d'Amérique se
couteaux et ils sont prêts a combattre
sont fermés aux émigrants nippons.
les bandits: vocable commode pour
Seuls quelques pays de l'Amérique du
désigner tous ceux qui s'opposeraient
Sud, et notamment le Brésil, ont
à leur intrusion. Vetus d'uniformes de
encore recours à la main-d'cœuvre japo-
soldats. ils sont groupés en formations
naise. Mais pour combien de temps?
militaires sous les ordres d'officiers et
Les Etats-Unis abaorbaient naguère
soumis A la plus stricte discipline. Cest
une grande partie du surplus de la
une armée munie d'instruments ara-
population japonaise; leur colonie qui.
toires qul défriche, laboure, une armée
en 1900. ne comptait que 24.000 mem-
d'occupation, et peut-étre d'invasion.
bres. s'álevait à 111.000 en 1920, dont
Car. quelle que solt la décisíon de la
98.000 sur la côte dt Pactfique et 72.000
Soeléte des nations, ce flot jaune tonti-
ren qu'en Californie. D'abord coplles.
nuera à couler.  déborde méme déjà
pots marchanda, petita (erroiere e
esque d'inönder Ts provino chi-
propriétaires, fls pullulèrent et prob-
moises au sud de la Mandchouria. Ce
pérèrent à tel point que lès Califor-
qui est certain, c'est que jamais il ne
niens finirent pas s'alarmer et prirent
remoutera à sa souroe.
peu a peu contre leur invasion les
mêmes mesures que contre l'invasion
chinoise. M. André Biegfried, dans mon
maitre livre sur les États-Unis, ana-
lyse avec son ordinaire pénétration les
raisons psychologiques et économiques
qui aboutirent à l'éviction totale des
émigrants japonais.
Aprés sa victoire sur PEtat teariste,
le Japon, devenu une grande puis-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
ter la production des terres cultivées,
ll faut des engrais et lls sont trop cot-
guérir.
procurer avec ses proprés ressources.
Unis qui se fermalept à l'émigr
Bans doute une partie: de l'emprunt
des 500 millions de yeng voté deraié-
rement par la Diète mera-t-il consacré
le nombre diminue lentament. Quatre
au progrés dane=eeture plas mo-
derne et plus ratloanema Il pemble; du
reste, que dans beaucoup de régions
cette culture "mit déjà atteint à un
à la race jaune. La Chine proprement
degré de perféction qu'il ne peut dé-
dite devenait à son tour hostile et: led
passer, car avec: le morcellement
55.000 Nippons qui sy trouvalent e
actuel de la propriété on ne peut son-
192s se voyalent pou à pen contrafnts
ger à user des mémes moyems méca-
au départ. Quant à l'Australie, ella
niques qu'en Russie et aux Etats-Unis.
n'admettait méme pas les émigrants
Il y a encore dans le Yeso et le
britanniques.
Kyushu des terres marécageuses que
Voilà donc le Japon, comme, ans
l'on pourrait drainer, et au nord, dans
temps des Shoguns, étroitement .en-
le Hondo et l'Hokkaido, des territoi-
fermé dans des limites chaque jour
res nouveaux à défricher. Mais les
plus étroites. Son seul espoir désor-
montagnes sont difficiles d'accès, plus
mais, c'est la Mandchourie. Lé Japon
difficiles encore à cultiver, les bonnes
y avait déjà tenté depuis 1905 un cer-
terres sont rares; le riz ne pousse
tain effort de colonisation : des. ou-
guère sur les pentes ni là où il fait
vriers japonais étaient employés dans
trop frold, et le paysan japonais, casa-
les chemins de fer, les mines et dans
nier, ennemi de l'aventure, s'adapte
le grand port de Dairen ; des cordons
jusqu'ici difficilement aux pays nou-
de paysans et de petits fermiers bor-
veaux et aux climats trop rigoureux
daient les voies du Sud-Mandchourien
Il est habitué à ses rizières et à ses
et les côtes du golfe du Petchill. Des
champs de blé et ne consent pas faci-
villages nippons formaient çà et là des
lement à changer de travail. Ce n'est
ilots dans l'océan de la population sino-
pas un pionnier. Parmi les colons que
mandchoue. Politique de prévision du
le gouvernement ou les grandes socié-
gouvernement impérial qui envisageait
tés agricoles avaient établis au Hok-
déjà son expansion sur le continent
kaido, où ils devaient faire de l'éle-
chinois. Mais les colons japonais
vage, beaucoup ne purent s'acclimater
s'adaptaient mal à la rigueur du cli-
à une région où la neige couvre le sol
mat et aux dures conditions de la vie.
pendant six mois ni se plier aux soins
De santé délicate, habitués à une nour-
constants que réclament les vaches,
riture plus fine et plus variée, tenant
les moutons, les porcs. Rebutés, ils
à leurs petits poissons salés, à leurs
retournèrent chez cux, préférant une
algues, à leur fameuse sauce le
misère connue.
< shoyu > et au « daikon , ce radis
Ceux qui sont festés, par contre,
à la terrible odeur qui est le condi-
commencent à s'accoutumer; ils con-
ment obligatoire de tous leurs mets,
sentent à échanger leurs maisonnettes
ils eurent d'abord peine à lutte' con-
de bois contre de solides maisons de
tre les rudes et sobres Chinois du
pierre, leurs casaques de tolle contre
Nord. On ne les trouvait guère que
des vêtements de fourrure et, délais-
dans la Mandchourie méridionale et
sant le riz, s'habituent peu à peu à la
surtout comme fonctionnaires des che-
viande. Leurs enfants, adaptés, for-
mins de fer, industriels, commerçants.
meront une race plus forte et plus
Peu d'ouvriers et de paysans L'an
résistante.
dernier, contre 28 millions de Mand-
L'Hokkaido, pourtant, ne peut hos-
chous et de Chinois. il n'y avait encore
pitaliser tous les Japonais en surnom-
que 220.000 Japonals et 1100.000 Co-
bre. Le remède, en partie efficace, est
réens. Encore parmi ces derniers
insuffisant.
comptait-on nombre de naturalisés ou
assimilés Chinois.
Reste l'émigration. Mais l'émigra-
Aujourd'hui, la nécessité et l'ambi-
tion s'est limitée jusqu'à devenir pres-
tion japonaise parlent ferme. Et c'est
que impossible. Il y a même pour les
par masses que débarquent les immi-
Japonais, en même temps qu'une cause
grants japonais, des jeunes gens sur-
de cuisant souci, un sufet de perpé-
tout, avec armes et bagages. Les
tuelle amertume.
armes ne sont pas là un vain mot,
Depuis une dizaine d'années, la plu-
car on leur a donné des fuslls. des
part des pays d'Asie et d'Amérique se
couteaux et ils sont prêts à combattre
sont fermés aux émigrants nippons.
les bandits: vocable commode pour
Seuls quelques pays de l'Amérique du
désigner tous ceux qui s'opposeraient
Sud, et notamment le Brésil, ont
à leur intrusion. Vetus d'uniformes. de
encore recours à la main-d'œuvre japo-
soldats, ils sont groupés en formations
naise. Mais pour combien de temps ?
militaires sous les ordres d'officiers et
Les Etats-Unis absorbaient naguère
soumis à la plus stricte discipline. Cest
une grande partie du surplus de la
une armée munie d'instruments ara-
population japonaise; leur colonie qui,
toires qui défriche, laboure, une armée
en 1900, ne comptait que 24,000 mem-
d'occupation, et peut-étre d'invasion
bres, s dlevait à 111.000 en 1920, dont
Car. quelle que molt la décisiom de la
98.p00 aur la eote:dt Patiqar et 72.000
soetéte des natioás ce flot jaunt'tott
rien qu'en Calffornle. D'abord coplles.
nuera à couler.  déborde mêmerdéja
pots marchands. petita ferinlora et
et rísque d'inönder Ys provingle thi-
propriétaires, fls putulèrent et prob-
noises au sud de la Mandchouria. Ce
pérèrent' a tel point que lès Califor-
qui est certain, c'est que jamais il ne
niens finirent pas s'alarmer et prirent
remomtera à sa source.
peu à peu contre . leur invasion les
mêmes. mesures que contre l'invasion
chinoise. M. André Siegfried, dans son
maitre Hvre sur les Etats-Unis, ana-
lyse avec son ordinaire pénétration les
raisons paychologiques et économiques
qui aboutirent à l'éviction totale des
émigrants japonais.
Aprèa sa victoire mur rntat tariste,

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/448
SEE894.51/390
FOR MEMORANDUM.
FROM State Department
(Castle.) DATED Nov.22.1932.
HO
Undersecretary
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Future of Japan seems to be in a very
perilous state because of the serious
social crisis in Japan which might take
448
a communistic and/or Fascisti angle, with
socialism intermixed.
hs

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
REOETVED
JAN 23 1933
Tokyo, October 22, 1932.
S
894.00
I do not think that I have anything of importance
894.00/448-1/
this fortnight to add to our despatches, but venture
to a pend a list of them in the hope that you will have
time to glance at the resumés prepared in the Far Eastern
Division.
. The report on the budget is possibly the most
significant because it shows to what finencial straits
the Manchurian venture is bringing the country. As for
our report on "Growth of Moderate Tendencies in Japan",
2
there is no doubt that a considerable and possibly growing
body of public opinion is opposed to the chauvinistic
policy of the military people and fearful as to the even-
tual outcome of the Menchurian venture, but there is as
yet insufficient evidence to justify any prediction that
the military group are going to lose control or in what
way the policy and actions of the Government would be
modified even if they eventually should lose control.
Respectfully yours,
FILED
2
The Honorable
1933
Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washing ton, D.C.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Despatches in this pouch:
No. 162. Japan Playing for Time.
No. 165. Growth of Moderate Tendencies in Japan.
No. l66. Japan's Budgetary Difficulties.
No.169.
Japan's Defense before the League of Nations
Assembly in November.
No. 170. Japanese Policy in North China.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
Hovamber 15, 1oses
riamtial.
Dear Mr. Grow:
I am glad to have your letter of Ooteber 22
calling especially to my attention your despatekes
162, 165, 166, 169 and 170. These despatehes I have
read with interest. I note the statement with which
you conclude your letter that "there is as yet is-
suffieient evidence to justify any predietiom that
the military group are going to lose contrel or in
what way the poliey and astions of the Govermment
would be modiried even if they eventually should
lose control". We are following closely developmemts
1n the situation both in the Far East and at Geseval.
Sincerely yours,
ESNRY T. STTMSON
The Henorable
Jeseph C. Grew,
Ameriean Ambes

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/449
793.94 Commission/558
FOR Report #156.
SEE
) DATED October 21,1932.
Naval Attache
FROM
Japan
NAME
1—1127
TO
449
REGARDING:
Report on political situation in Japan.
hs

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.92)
CHINESE LEGATION
WASHINOTON
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 26, 1932.
NQV 26 1932
ack
C-.FIDEITIAL
F
COMNUN
/H
894.00
DIVISION OF
2
S
dear Dr: ab rhEeck:
I wn horowith enelocinr for your confifenrial
894.00/450
inertion 
tistry of
c bas uct boen re-
ceive.
I a, my sear Dr. rnhock,
Hawkling Ye
MAR 30 1933
FILED
Enclesure:
 f r ur
os atove.
Dr. Stanley M. Hornbeck,
Chief of the Pr Laste'n Division,
Deou tment of State.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY OF CABLEGRAM
FROM THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS;NAWKING
DATED NOVE1BER 25,1932
It was reported from Tokyo that there was a growths
difference of opinion between Araki and Koieos, former
Vice Minister of War. Incidentally Koisos' transfer to
Manchuria was largely attributed to this significant
breach. Attempts were also made to diecredit both Koimo
and Minami, Araki's predecessor as War Minister, as
being r garded too moderate. General Hata, Chief of
Gendarmerie, was said to be responsirle for the appearance
of the report in the Kukomin reflecting the actions of
Koiso and  inami who were reoerted to be highly indignant.
The recent resignation of General Okasoto, Co mander of
the Guards Division, was said to be a protest againat the
prevention by the Araki clique of severe punishment to
certain officers of his Division who plotted to petition
The Emperor for the removal of certain high officials and
suspension of the Diet. The rift between the extremists
and the moderates of the Japanese Army, together with the
critigal financial condition; may prove to be a turning
point to bring the moderates into power
ChineneLe

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.83)
CHINBE LEATION
WASHINOTOE
No26, 1932.
QOAVIDTVTIAL
ity dear Dr. Snrnbeck:
I am her with cclo inr for your confilential
infornation : co y of . cst lerrem fr the inietry of
For ign Affaire st unkin, ch bee jut hoen ro
seived.
I am, my dour Cr. ornbook,
Very sinoer-ly your
HAWKLING YEN
Charre d'afairea sd intori.
Enolomure:
Copy of ochlegrnm
as above,
Ds. seupleg L. Horabem,
aria of the Ter sten Divisiem.
e of state.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.83)
O0PT Q 0A
NOM、THE LIWISTRY OF TURS
DATRD BOVENUS
differense of opinion between Araki nd foisss, forms
Viee Sinister of ar. Imeidemtally Koisos' tramet
Manchuria was latgely attribated to this sigmifieame
breaoh. Attepts were alm made to dimoredit both xot
and Minami, Araki'n nredecessor as Tar vinister, am
being r'gorded too moderate. Gemoral Hata, Chief of
Gendarmerie, was said to be remponsible for the apcearamme
of the report in the Kukowin reflecting the nattame of
Koiso and winam1 who were ran wted to be highly indigmant.
The recent resigmation of General Okamoto, Co mander of
the Guarde Division, was maid to be a protest agaimmt the
preventien by the Araki olique of severe munishment to
cartain africere of nie nivisim vha plostéd to petitiom
The mperer fer the remeval of eestaim hith asrislals ant
suséion  the Die. The is bee 
and the modeaes a the damese , toe with 
ariticel zinsasial coadstion, may preve te be a tmins
pthe

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.93)
December 1 1982
My dear Doctor Yen:
I acknowledge the receipt of your no te of Novem-
ber 26, 1932, enolos ing for my oonfidemtial infermatiem
a oopy of a cablegram from the Ministry of Foreigm Af-
fairs at Nanking in regard to political mátters in Japm.
I am, my dear Dootor Yom,
Yery sincerely yours,
sctohnd
Doetor Hawkling Yen,
Chargé d'arfaires ad interim of Chima.
e.gC,
in.m.61.
FE:EGCIKC
FE
11/30/32
A trme copy s
DEC 1 1982.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 6, 1932.
EHD:
U:
THE UNDER SECRETARY
WRL:
:
271932
Tokyo's despatch NgPAPT97 ofF STATE
November 17, 1932, reports the arrest
on November 5 of 150 persons (about
120 subsequently released) suspected
of implication in the Inukai assassina-
tion plot and in a plot to assassinate
during the November maneuvers General
Ugaki, Count Makino, Dr. Ikki, Prime
Minister Saito, Finance Minister
Takahashi, Baron Go, Ikeda of the
Mitsui Bank, and Baron Hiranuma,
President of the Privy Council. Among
those arresteu were the son of Toyama,
leading reactionary of Japan, and the
man who stole the flag from the
American Embassy compound in 1924. It
is believeu that the arrest of these
reactionaries was ordered by the Prime
Minister, General Araki and Foreign
Minister Uchida, etc., as the police
would hardly have dared to take action
against Toyama. The Embassy is of the
opinion that the military was not
directly conoerned in the most recent
plot

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
plot but that elements in the army
helped to influence the conspirators.
In the final paragraph on page 5 are
given the probable reasons for the
inolusion in the assassination list of
the men mentioned above. The public
reaction to this latest conspiracy
differs from the reaction to previous
conspiracies when there was a very
definite current of sympathy with the
conspirators. This may be due to
ohanged conditions or to the danger
which suoh conspiracies have for the
security and stability of the state.
At any rate, press comment has been
severely critical of this latest
conspiracy and there is good reason
to believe that the public is becoming
disgusted with pseudo-patriots.
2
LES:EJL

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, ovember 17, 1932.
No. 197
Subject:
Assassination Plots.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D
F/HS
PM RECD
5
Division of
WO
0EC.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PEC 5- 1932
10
894.00/451
894.00
DEC A 8 1082
FILHD
The honorable
he Secre .ry of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Police raids carried out on Movember 5th in Tokyo
resulted in the arrest of a gang of young "rightest"
radicals, Who, according to information available, vere
la ning another series of assassinations of the kind which
have disturbed the capital on several occasions during
the past year. Attention is invited to the series of
despatches by the Eubassy which deal with these events:
321
994.00/282CF
No. 382/of November 7, 1931; No. 561 of April 7, 1932;
844.00/413
and No. 624 of May 20, 1932. Especially interesting in
this
1

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
this connection is the fact that one of the ring-leaders
arrested is the son of Mitsuru Toyama, sometimes referred
to as the Robin Hood of J pan. He is notorious as the
founder and leader of the Kokuryukai(Black Dragon Society)
which has a large and devoted f llowing and of hich General
Araki is a me iber. Toyoma occupies a unique position in
a country Where patriotisn is a fetish.
Secause of these circuistances, the ress has been
cautious about printing .etails of the assassination plots.
I a. told by a person in close touch with the metropolitan
police that the persons marked for assessination were
General Ugaki, Governor General of Chosen; Count Makino,
Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal; Dr. Ikki, Minister of the
Imperial Household; Prenier Saito; Mr. Takahashi, Minister
of Finance; aron Go of the Fokyo Electric Light Company;
Ir. S. Ikeda, President of the Mitsui Bank: and Baron 
Hiranuma, Iresident of the rivy Council.
The first two
see. to be the persons whose removal was most desired.
Ihe assassinations, it was stated, were scheduled to take
lace during the Grand Manoeuvres which have just been held.
Besides Hidezo Toyama, a certain notorious Yoshi Kodama,
and Rihei Okada vere arrested as leaders of the conspiracy.
Incidentally the last named person stole the flag from the
American Embassy compound in 1924, at the ti e of the
agitation over the Ialiration Act. I am reliably informed
that in all about 150 persons ere arr sted and have been
exanined. These include all the persons suspected of
implication in both the May 15th and the recent plot.
. A11
but about thirty have been released. ost of these men
seem

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
seem to have been meabers of the Fascist-reactionary or-
ganizations which, from time to time, have been suspected
of implication in the various disoruers of recent months.
The local press decleres that several separate groups of
reactionaries were involved, one of then being the Tenkokai
(Heavenly Cenduct Society), headed by young Toyama, and another
being the Dokuritsu SeinenSha(Independent Youth Society) led
by Yoshio Kodama.
Although definite infor ation is lacking, various
indications seem to oint to a connection between the present
plot and others of recent months, notably that of May 15th
in which Premier Inukai was slain. The prose reports that
the heade of the Shizanjutu and ikyo juiu, "patriotic schools"
of Ibaraki Prefecture, near fokyo, mere examined by the police
because of the com licity of several of his upils in the
May 13th affair.
It as the confession of the head of the
forner school to the effec that some of the pistols used
in the May 15th affeir vere obtained from young Toyama which
led to the lat er's arrest.
e persons marked for assassina-
tion were, in several cases, the same as in the earlier plot.
I shall discuss in further detail in another paragraoh the
ossibilities of military cennection with this plot.
he police aust have been in possession of indubitable
evidence of young Toyamc's complicity in the crime to have
dared to arres him.
.he name of Toyama is held in such
reverence by the follovers of the old man that a false step
uight
ve caused videspread disorders. Most of the papers
in Tokyo refrained fro: direct reference to the oyama name
not because of a po ice ban, but because of fear of retaliation
from

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
from his followers.
A high official of the Foreign Uffice informod 
member of y staff that the raids on the reactionaries
were ordered by the hi hest figures in the Government, and
that persons no Less than Preier Saito, General Araki
and Viscount Ucida discussed the matter and decided thet
a clean s. eep ust be made of dangerous reactionaries.
Certain it is that the police alone, without the support
of lisher aut..ority, would hardly have dared take action
against Toyamr.
he question Wnich as once presenied itself to the
public mind was whes.er any part in this conspiracy was
aken by the youn ofricers who were implicated in previous
Plots. The evidence of indiscipline in the armed forces
presented by the ay 15th affair wes a severe shock to the
coun ry. n the surface t.ere see's to be no evidence of
any s.cl. connection. ell inforned Japanese with whom the
writer has alked declare tha. the young military were in
no way implicated ; that the Army and Navy leaders have
taken strict meusures to prevent a recurrence of political
ie.onstrations by officers under their coumand.
However, it is significant that at least two instances
of unrest in young army circles have been observed in recent
weeks which may or may not point to military assistance
in the recent plot. The Enbassy transmitted a document
with despatoh No. 180 of November 5, 1932, which was cirou-
lated among young aray ciroles and called for action against
General Ugaki and Count Makino. Also, the press recently
carried an account of a similar agitation in the army
division

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
-5 -
division at ugoya sime wsainst presunmbly the same
Leaders. I m led to eli ve uhet the military was
not airectly c neernel in the reeent plot, but I am
inclime to cuepect ha ere cre clements in the army
wlich  ve i is in spathy with these conspirators and
which say lave helped to safluence the latter.
he sbjec. of the e as ir tors in secking to slay
the leaders or  e umt y,  rr a can ue judged, was
similar to thet wilie. .otiv. ted the slayers ef Inukai,
Dan end I ou e. he  en i lica ed are ostly very
Joung, ef a purently i ature olitical ideas nd warped
sense of pasriotic luty. he. see. to feel that the country
is being falsely le by the present eut..orities. whey are
s ia to be cimine  the cli ination of parlia entarism and
e a Fescist centralizution of political ower under the
i  cdiate con rol of she mperor, in the hands, probably,
of the iiitary.
If r mr is werth c nsidering, it a pears that
resentment gains n ral Ugaki, seelingly so far from
the political arena, is on account of his alleged can-
didacy for the presidency of the Minseito and consequently
the preniership. It is of course con on mowledge that the
present faction in control of the Army dislike General
Ugaki vecause of his reduction of army personnel in
forner years. Admiral Saito is probably held responsible
for the measure of restraint held over the Army by the
Goveriment. Si ilarly, r. -akahashi is blamed for not
conceding to the military demands for increased funds.
Baron Go and r. Ikeda are industrial leaders who are
suspected of profiting by exchange manipulations at the
expense

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
expense of the nation.hat the name of Baron Hiranuma
should appear on this list is at first somewhat surprising.
Some months go. he was  uch touted by the "Fascists as
their choice for the preniership. He ceens to have lost
favor vith is forler fol owing,  ossibly because of his
lack of smpathy vith their methods. Count Makino and
Dr. Ikki have Long been c stigated by the "patriots".
They are accused of giving false advice to the Emperor,
and of being anti-nilitary. y vay of parenthesis, mention
should be made of the activities of a certain Count Koken
fanaka. This centleman, now 90 years old, has been in
retirement for 3c ye rs, since certain scandals were un-
earthed during his regite  inister ef the Iaperial House-
hold. It is re orved tha he recently petitioned the
Taperor, as is his rivilege as a "Shi min" official, to
oust Count  akino nd Dr. Ikki because of alleged bad
advice tendered by them to the Eaperor. It seems likely
that this dissolute old greybeard has been used as a tool
by the Toycla rend of atriots in the atte pt to remove
Hakino and Ikki from office.
he reaction to this latest conspiracy, as seen n the
press and ained from conversation with Japanese, is
especially interesting. In similar afrairs earlier in the
year, particularly at the time of the lay 15th affair, there
was a very definite undercurrent of sympathy with the
conspirators on the part of the public. Perhaps this was
due to conditions which, since that time, have been changed,
or possibly the public has come to realize that illegal
and violent methods of expressing political convictions
are fraught with real danger to the security and stability
of

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
of the state.
In any event, press con ont has been severely critical
of this latest conspiracy. he powerful dailies of Tokyo
are united in declaring that " rigntest" conspirators are
as dangerous cnd culpable as thcir "leftist" prototypes,
and that both pr sent a challenge to public peace which
can:ot be tolerated.
In a representative editorial
article, the WICHI ICHI stated, on November 6th, "The
reactionaries are causing as much trouble as the revo-
lutionaries.....Any leniency s own to one side of the
extremists Would only encourage the other side. Hence
control over such offences, whother committed by right
or left, ust be as stric as possible ...... Some people
have the false idea that "rightest" thought is less
dangerous than the "Leftist" because the former is simply
on extreme conservatism..... Those Who are for the status
quo become as dangerous s the co unists when they proceed
to translate their beliefs into action".
There is good reason to believe that the public is
becoming disgusted with the pseudo-patriots and is adopting
a sane and antagonistic vie toward the use of violence in
political metters. here was litile evidence of excitement
fo lowing the recent affair, but much evidence of determined
opposition to terroristic methods.
Respectfully yours,
.F
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
WTT:r
In quintuplicate to the Department
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/452
894.002/202
FOR Despatch # 202.
SEE
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED November 18. 1932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Political reasons for possible change
力
in the Japanese Cabinet.
52
hs

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.75)
No. 802.
Toy, v 1, 19.
Cmb jeet:
Rmere Reanas sn dng Cail Cham
The Homorable
he eere ary of tato.
ashington.
158
During the pest fe somtms there tave tomm heeve
varions rmors apont an impemdins eabinet ebenge. these
ruors, though veges, ere werthy ef note as exgerieme
aue shome ss is opasese politise those ta mommlly
 e be  e .
 h

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.75)
一2一
to ellemee the demnnds of the willtary for a muperpomer
sovermment ni to s tisfy the populer vatery agmimee
partisen incoupet nc, it hse in ite hoterogemoous
Auture ? fumda o1 -hness. he only shiag that
A70
therlitn of r
oflf
Lay 20 108.
o1
  is  utdciity tvarhro
he
ro ostrucl lootivilies
it e oion
  r
atake ay shrow powor Into the inseito hamde. in
other rord, it will render I1p mlloglnnee uatil i0
feels tiat she misom d'atre of the Smite Cabines has
vauiahed ay the oumtry is prepared t) accept parlie-
eatary parsiammnip amin.
The imseito is hantful for whet represensation
1t rataime in the prroent mabinet in vicr of its weak
pesition in the tet. it hae daneuneed the Gevarm
's bdet len, but as he ped i
thopreent ablmt.
tte ediate cse fe the e t int

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.75)
-3 -
an, reesdented sise brs sarieuely alemed se cmmets
and industrial Londor. t he ei 
Joiyukai( I which the present Finmnee Winleter i0
enber) nor tre axeito cve eny durinite otarpla.
ola 1ore ceoud 
whi
11y.o l 
th 
3:0r
in
fiethat
28
wtl thehrian trak. srha the 
owarful figuro in the rmy. Ronever, during hie abemee
fron active sarvice the rival sraki factiom has aid
control and hes re udieved Ggaki's po loles of military
re trozahment. Ugeki is undoubtedly  able n of 
usually bree viev, out it is .mestionxble mmether under
presemt condit! as he could regais nie fommer imflesmee
over the Ay. ven toug be ould thare is 
populer auppert for the anehurian progrem whieh ceammt
be diveel fren Large lity expmdes. Reee it
1s douatl r  ld do n se  h 
in the izeetion of cimnmce for the time me

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.74)
paint out ss stgifleent the eent iy of s
lond ng membere of the  on: yukel, t'e largoet grep
in the uan f enre, to aen t Lntve the Gemmrel
ù presumably aoitloal
hey noted that
215
in
13
y1b1y

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.89)
10.15
F/HS
894.00/452
h8
:21
2
despatches tr snittim ce o blished et lai or
leuthy  cmoce da of co vers tions. a eurefully prepared
sipest or outline of the contents thoreof. It is suggested
tnat suuh igest or outline be pr  ared after the despatch
has been completed. It is believed that such a digest will
be helpful, both to the drufting officer in studying a
despatch in preparation and to officers in the Department
in determining whether the deepatoh should be read immediately
in its entirety or whether it is of interest. for the time
being. ohiefly for purposes of reforenoe, and that it will
assiat officers of the Depertment in disoovering quiokly the
reletive importance of despatohes at those times when a
conmiderable number of despatohes and reports resoh the
Department simmltanoously.
10

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.86)
- 2 -
It is understood, of coureo, that in certain
instances a deepatch is itself so brief that a digest
would be unneccssory.
Very tr 1.urs
ttato:
2~ 5 1088.1
m.m.t.
W
12/8/38

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE UNDER SECRETARY Deoember 22, 1932.
DEPARTM NT OF STATE
SIA:
With reference to Peiping's telegram
No. 1371 of December 22, noon, giving a
Reuter report of the inauguration tomorrow
of Kenzo Adaohi's new politioal party,
the Kokumin Domei (officially translated
Since the downfall of the Wakatsuki
Cabinet in December, 193l, the immediate
cause of whioh was political intrigue by
Adaohi, then Home Minister, Adachi has
bent his efforts toward forming a new
party. Al though during the extraordinary
session of the Diet in August and Septem-
ber of this year the party had not yet
obtained official recognition, it was an
important factor in that session, olaim-
ing about thirty members, mostly reoruited
from the Minseito Party. On September 12
of this year this group published its
political principles which do not appear
to be essentially different from the
prinoiples of either of the two major
parties, with the exoeption that one oalls
for "the creation of a Japan-Manohoukuo
economio block."
2
LÉS:EMU

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
KLP
TELEGRAM REEEVED
Peiping via Naval Radio
Dated December 22, 1932.
FROM
Rec'd. 11:55 a.m..
F
H
S
Secretary of State,
Division of
Washington
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00/453
P5C 22 1932
1371, December 22, noon.
2
Reuter from Tokyo, 2lst.
"In presence of cight thousand delegates from
89.
various localities throughout country Mr. Kenzo Adachi!s
new political party Kokuminbomei or National League will
be formally inaugurated tomorrowiw ith the Far Eastern
Monroc Doctrine and a Japanese Manchukuo economic bloo
is salient features of its platform which also aime at
far reaching reforms of taxation, f inance, education,
UEC?
diplomacy, etc.
FILFD
On the eve of its formation the strength of new
190
party in Diet reached thirty-three members by addition
Ma
of Yojiro Mateu Tami proletarianm ember of House of
N1
Representatives who formally changed his allegianoe today.
Being of fascist complexion members of new party plan
to wear black shirt uniforms. Speaking to press today
Adachi's principal lieutenant Heigo Nakano emphasized
NB
that new party would make special appeal to youth of
the nation and estimated that party's supporters now
numbex

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.95)
1371 from Peiping
一2
number fully two million. He expeoted huge and rapid
inorease of supporters after formal inauguration of party
tomorrow".
JOHNSON
OSB * WSB

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.A
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
D1
MET
PLAIN
FROM
04
Peiping via N.R.
Dated Deoember 23, 1933
Rec'd 9:55 a
Searetary of State,
Division of
Washington.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00/454
EC 23 1932
894.0
1378, December 23, noun.
Depertment of Btate
Legation's 1371, December 22, noon.
Reuter from Tokyo, twenty-second.
ADACHL
"New opposition party led by Kenzo Adieh, formerly
leading member of Minseito, was inaugurated today. Party
whioh is known as Kokumindomei or National League has thirty-
three members in Parliament and is of a strong fasoist oom-
plexion. Inauguration oeremony waa attended by four thou
sand members from all parts of country most of whom wearing
FILED
blaokshirts.
Manifesto issued by National League declares that Japalt
shall not be denied legitimate development through inter-
national unreasonableness nor shall Japanese Nation be nen-
aced by social injustice. In his inaugural speeoh Adsshi
emphasized necessity for national coonomio control based on
an economio bloo composed of Japan and Manohukuo and for pro-
motion of good relations with England, Amerioa, Soviet Rus-
sia and China".
V8B-08B
JOHNSON

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/455
5
SEE
894.00 P.R./60
FOR #218
FROM
Japan
Grew
...) DATED
Dec.9, 1932
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
arrest of young reactionaries.
Reports - among whon were sons of notorious leaders.
Were accused of inplication in the assassinations
of the past year.
1s

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.79)
in Tokgo af . sone of about 20 youne reastems
ond Yoshd odams, a notori us londer, who tmd 
the e een who stole the fiag fros the merlemm Embmasy
oon ound in laee, at the time of the agitatlom aver the
Ism.grution ict. These y ung"rndiosl seeetiomaries"
were aocused of implleatiun in the sussomimatlons ot the poet
yoor snd of plam ing arother saries. It is understeed that
wmung the iatended viet!: were General Ugakd, Motereer
Generel of Chosen; Couat wukime, Lord Zouper of the Priv
Be l. ss. Ikki, siulster f the Iaperial Moucabold, Prexier
Bulto: Xr. Tukabashl, Nini ter of Pinanco; Baron Do of te
Tokyo Ileotrie Light Company, Er. E. Lkeda, Presidemt 
the Zitaui Baak; and Farom Méramme, 'resldant of the Pae
Counell. The plet was to have been carréed aut daring 
annwel Arey Sanusovres wmich touk ptage at Oake m 
11 0 34.
the polsce mest have hen in peesessim of ry
Resge doapen ee 07 of Sover 1t t.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.82)
the mppert of the tdpest offletale of the Sovmsmeent.
iuelmding the Winister af s.
There is no direet ovidones af the complieiey af the
thay have in the peat been assosinted with the membeee of
the Pascist-resotionary rasclzations. Purtbarmare, during
reeent eunthe there has been eireuluted wmong the younger
ary frieers a strongly worded dcoument eallins for setiom
ageinst Gonerel Ugoki nud Count Bakimo."
The object ? the e ns: irators in seakine to slay the
lesdess of th suntry wos to rid the psople of leuders shom
they amridered beć no to abollen the carlicomtary syot.
Ine zem impliceted ore sostly very young snd labued with ime
muture politieal Idees. It iz signifiosnt thet the resetiom.
of the publie has beem desisedly apeinst this conspirady
At he te ofths  these
h
of the pabile hat there has been me aidenes at this aure

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
Division of
THE UNDER SCRETARY
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ASSIFICATION i
DEC 22 1932
DEC 20 1932
TATETHEAMERICANEMBASSY
DEPAPIN
TOKYO
F
DIIN OR
G
D8 80
CRACROEU
894.00/455
894.00
The political situation here is very quiet
except for one significant factor, which is that
the powers that be, including General Araki him-
self, seem to think that political assassinations
in Japan have gone far enough and have determined
to put ε stop to them by striking at the soul of
the whole movement, namely, old Mitsuru Toyama
himself. His house was recently raided and searched
by the police and his son arrested. Hitherto
Toyama has been immune, but recent rumors of plans
to kill Saito, Makino, Ikki and Takahashi - after
the political murder of four of thc best men in
the country (Hamaguchi, Inukai, Inouye and Dan)
determined the Government that it was time t ta
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
①

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
°.
drastic measures to put an end to assassination.
The fact that the Governnent dared to take these
steps - Toyama having been looked upon by a large
section of the public, including the military, as
a sort of super-patriot - is significant of its
growing confidence and authority. This does not
mean that the Saito Cabinet will necessarily last
beyond the next session of the Diet, for it very
likely will not. But it does mean that the
chauvinistic military hotheads and the so-called
patriotic societies, who were directly or indirect-
ly rosponsible for the former political terrorism,
are less firmly intrenched and are, it is hoped,
giving way to a more constructive statesmanship.
The anti-American press campaign has, for
the present, practically ceased. I am inclined to
think that Debuchi had sometiing to do with this
and I dare say that some order to that effect may
have come from the Emperor himself. It is signifi-
cant that the personnel of the press bureau of the
Ministry of War has recently been completely changed.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
One of the new officers assigned to the bureau had
been transferred from the Japanese Legation in
Mexico, and when our Military Attaché smilingly
expressed the hope that he was going to put a
stop to the anti-American press campaign, he
replied that this was exactly vhat he was going
to do. General Araki has recently been unex-
pectedly cordial in his meetings with our Military
Attaché, as he has with me. Shiratori has lost
much of his influenc
his intimate contacts in
the Army have been trnsferred, and his political
ally, Kaku Mori, the Seiyikai schemer, is ill
and temporarily out of the picture. Shiratori
has been singing on a much lower note in his
press conferences. In my telegram No. 275 of
November 28, 8 p.m., I gave further reasons for
the present quiescence of the anti-American feel-
ing in the country. But of course this feeling
is always present nd would rapidly be fanned into
flame by any untoward incident.
With regard to the forthcoming meeting of
the Assembly in Geneva, after talking with many

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
diplomatic colleagues, foreign press correspon-
dents and American residents who know Japan, I
find no one who believes that Japan will make
substantial concessions, certainly none that would
alter or modify Japan's recognition of "Manchukuo".
On the other hand, I think it possible that Japan
may have something in reserve to bring forward at
the last moment. I base my supposition on tnree
reasons. One is the unlikelihood that Japan will
he so rash as to attempt to face the moral con-
demnation of the whole worlc, in spite of all the
brave talk which is now taking place. It seems
possible that they may have some plan by which
they hope to forestall a vote of censure. The
second is that Japan is arguing its case at Geneva.
If the nation is as sure of its ground as it
claims, why argue? In the third place it is becom-
ing increasingly evident that the recent drastic
decline in the yen exchange and consequent further
inpairment of the country's credit abroad is to be
traced largely to a lack of confidence in Japan's
political relations with the world at large. Until

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Until this feeling is liquidated the danger of
financial and social dislocation through the col-
lapse of the currency is ever-present, while foreign
capital markets cannot be counted on to come to her
aid. It seems to me that the Japanese are trying
to ameliorate the feeling aroused against their
actions by the Lytton Report, and that having put
the best face po: sible on their behavior they may
possibly come forward at the last moment, before
any action is taken against them, with some sug-
gestions looking toward an eventual settlement
some years hence. I do not for a moment believe,
however, that any suggestions which they may make
will contemplate the relinquishment of their
recognition of "Manchukuo" as an "independent
state". The members of my staff and I have been
endeavoring for the past week to obtain some
inkling of what the suggestions, if any, will
consist of, but we have had no success. It is
probably that the discussions in the Assembly of
the League will continue for some time, and if I

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
succeed in obtaining any idea as to Japan's inten-
tions, I shall inform you immediately by cable.
In my cablegram of November 28, 8 p.m., I
suggested that restraint be exercised in handling
the Sino-Japanese dispute, because coercive measures
would undoubtedly result in more firmly welding the
Japanese nation together in opposition to the
League and the United States. Any hint of force,
either military or economic, I believe, would
result in the uniting of the nation behind the
military and would completely overwhelm the more
moderate influences which are vorking beneath the
surface to restore Japan to its former high place
in the councils of nations. Moral pressure, however,
I think can be exerted without this danger and
might tend to widen the rift now beginning to be
noticed between the military and the moderate
elements. Eventually the force of public opinion
throughout the world, coupled with the difficulty
and over-burdening expense of pacifying Manchuria,
might cause Japan to change its attitude toward the

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
problem. Anyway, as I see it, it is our only
chance, as the threat of material pressure would
almost certainly have the opposite effect from
that desired. Thus the time factor is important,
and a gradual rather than an immediate solution
of the problem indicated.
My speech in Osaka appears to have been help-
ful. Its main purpose was to correct the general
belief here that the American people are not behind
you in your active support of the peace treaties.
The contrary was clearly brought out by the words:
"As for the American people, they are
heart and soul behind this (peace) movement
and behind those who have labored to bring
about a situation where warfare between
civilized nations will be as extinct as
human slavery in civilized nations is today.
This peace movement represents a fundamental,
united and unanimous desire of the American
people as a whole. The position of the
United States in this issue is clear-cut and
unambiguous. It has repeatedly been made
clear."
On the other hand, thc speech was eminently friend-
1y in tone and substance, so that the pill was
administered without causing irritation. The
Minister for Foreign Affairs last night expressed

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
to me personally his appreciation of the address.
May I take this occasion to say tuat I think
your instructions to Norman Davis and Hugh Wilson
relating to the Manchurian issue meet the situa-
tion exactly?
Sincerely yours,

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.95)
December 22 1952
Dear Mr. Grew:
I have read with interest your letter of Deeem-
ber 3 giving an account of the politieal situation
and your estimate of possibilities, together with 
account of your Osaka speech.
The picture which you give of the situatiom is
substantially in accord with ours, and our line of
procedure has been substantially in accord with thet
whioh you suggest.
I note with spesial interest the effert which
you have been making to explain to the Japamese the
feeling of the American people and my position in
suppe
the peace treaties. The paragraph which
you quote from your reeent address states eur pesissem
exactly. I am sure that what you are doing will be
very helpful.
Jeseph G. Grew.
amerieam

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.85)
- 2 -
May I offer on behalf of Mrs. Stinson and myself
to you and Mrs. Grew the Season's greetings and all
best wishes?
Sincerely yours,
HLJRY L.STIMSON
A. ue copy
Insh
rcom
CR
FE:SKH/ZMF
FR
Deo. 22.1982. 
10/m/88

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/
800,00/215
-893-00/12259--
Memorandum
SEE
FOR
State Dept.
Far Eastern Seotion
Hamilton
Oot.19,1932.
FROM
..) DATED
457
TO
NAME
1-1187
Japan: Number of Changes of Government since
REGARDING:
May,1931: Memorandum on -.
fpg

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/
SEE
793.94/5712
FOR MEMORANDUM.
458
FROM ...State Department
(..Stimaon.......) DATED Jamuary.5,..1933.
Secretary
TO
NAME
1—1187
REGARDING:
Secretary stated the situation in Tokyo was
different from that in any other civilized
capital in that the entire government was
stated to be in the hands of a group of
young army officers.
hs

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 18, 1933.
Tokyo's despatch No. 233 of December 21,
1932, forwards copies of two letters from the
Consul at Nagasaki forwarding memoranda of
conversations whioh the Vice Consul had with
a Japanese who claimeu he was an agent of a
secret sooiety whose purpose was to overthrow
the militaristio group now in control of the
Japanese Government and who wished to obtain
the aotive assistance of the United States
Government to attain this end. The memoranda
make interesting but unprofitable reading.
The man was informed that the Consulate would
have nothing to do with his suggestions.
忍
LES:CLS

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
7E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 21, 1932.
No. 233.
Subject:
Enclosing copies of correspondence from
Consul t Nagasaki r garding Ipnei Wada.
F/HS
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
894.00/459
894.00
0
TATE
52
C
Division of
JAN 17 1933
artment of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1,2/
I am enclosing copies of two letters with their
enclosures received from the Consul at Nagasaki in which he
describes two calls made upon the Vice Consul by a man who
gave his name as Ipnei Wada and said he was an agent of a.
secret society called the Ryodan. The purpose of this al-
leged organization is said to be the overthrow of the present
militaristic group who are in control of the Japanese Govern-
FILED
2
ment. To this end he desires the active assistance of the
United States Government.
The

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The Consul and the Vice Consul at Nagasaki seem to
have adopted the proper attitude towards him. A copy of
3/.
my letter to the Consul is enclosed. The Department will
note that I have instructed the Consul to have nothing to
do with this or similar proposals.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1,2
Conies of two letters,
with enclosures, from
the Consul at Nagasaki.
3
Copy of Embassy's rcply.
800.
4
9.yn.
ELN:r

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosuro No./
De:.233
From esn Zabasay
American Consulate, Nagasaki, Japan,December 15, 1932.
Strictly Confidential.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Attached hereto is a statement made by Mr. Glen
Bruner, vice consul at this post, concerning his inter-
view on the evening of Sunday, December 1lth, with a
Japanese claiming to repres nt a direct-action organi-
zation in need of funds.
Needless to say no encouragement has been given this
individual, nor will he receive any should he call again.
I shall direct Mr. Bruner to impress upon him in the
most convincing way possible the utter impossibility
of any American authority's acceding to the plans of
his organization.
It is difficult to guess why the consulate at
Nagasaki should have been selected for this attempt.
Possibly other American consulates in Japan have al-
ready been anproached without success. Perhaps the
fact that the two officers at this post both speak
Japanese may have made an approach through this office
seem easier.
To the average Japanese it seems quite in keeping
to approach a consulate on such a mission as disclosed
by Mr. Bruner's visitor. It is generally believed in
Japan that the chief function of a consul is to spy,
that his more obvious duties are only so much camouflage,
and that large sums of money are regularly spont by
him in under-cover activities of all sorts. To some
extent they are judging others by themselves since
they share with most Orientals a belief in the effi-
cacy of plots and schemes, treachery and sudden strokes
of direct action. To some extent, too, they can point
to historical precedent in Occidental countries.
While I did not see his visitor myself, I am in-
clined to agree with Mr. Bruner in his belief in the
sincerity of the visitor's proposals and in the general
truth of the latter's statements about the organization.
Very respectfully yours,
Henry B. Hitchcock, Consul.
Enclosure:
Statement, as
above described.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
American Consulate, Nagasaki, Japan.
December 12, 1932.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
Organization.
Last night at 8:15 my front gate slammed and
a moment later I heard someone violently shaking the front
door of my house. I went downstairs and found that my
wife had started to the door but, because a young man was
peering in at her through the glass at one side of it, she
did not open the door to him. I turned on the porch light
and opened the door, and then talked with him a few moments.
On being convinced that he was neither drunk nor insane,
and at his earnest request, I let him in and invited him to
my study where we talked until shortly after ten o'clock.
I submit the following notes on my visitor and our conver-
sation.
Ippei WADA is a young man about 28 years old, tall for
a Japanese, well built; wears glasses, but has no dis-
tinctive features. He says that he is a middle school
graduate; that he has served in the Japanese army; and that
he is now employed. Last night he was well but quietly
dressed in Japanese clothes. He wore a brown soft hat,
a dark Japanese Inverness, and a brown figured kimono
without hakama. He came into the house with his Inverness
on, and appeared to be perfectly at home as he hung his
wraps on the hall tree.
Once upstairs he incuired if there were any Japanese
in the house, and, on being told that there were, he ex-
pressed the hope that they were not within earshot. He
was assured that they were not.
Mr. Wada did not hesitate to broach at once the
subject of his call. He was manifestly agitated, and it
was evident that he had mustered all his courage in making
his call upon me. But in the course of the more than an
hour and a half of our conversation, he became calm and
self-possessed. When he left he seemed once more wrought
up, but this time it was not because he had been incivilly
received, nor yet because he felt that he had been mis-
understood or that he might be betrayed into the hands
of the police, but because he had received no encouragement
ghat his proposals might be considered.
The

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The RYODAN, according to Mr. WADA, is a "reactionary"
organization of loyal patriots. 1t has 4,000 members, most
of whom are ex-service men . Its leaders number about
fifty, most of whom are about forty years of age, but the
organization is without class distinctions. A leader is
a leader in his duties and responsibilities only.
Although the RYODAN is composed very largely of ex-service
men, it is anti-militarist, that is to say it opposes
the present "militarist-big business" combination which is
using high-handed methods, and is oppressing the common people
both within nd without the Empire. The RYODAN purposes to
overthrow this nefarious combination by violence. It believes
that it is better for a few individuals to die now than for
the common people to suffer eternally from the oppression
of the authorities at present in power. It believes that
the present Minister of War, Lieutenant General Sadao ARAkI,
personally directed the recently attempted coup d'etat in
which Premier INUKAI was assassinated, and that General ARAKI
and his supporters should suffer for their misdeeds. The
RYODAN has members in every division of the Japanese army.
Its members are also found among the workmen and the adminis-
trative employees of every munitions factory, or every
secret workshop, and of the secret arsenals, cmmunition dumps,
and oil reserve stations of every fortified zone in the Empire.
Mr. WADA decries the present coercive methods of the War
Department, is bitter towards the monied interests which
oppress the common people, is sympathetic towards the Chinese,
ridicules the idea that the Manchukuo was established by the
will of the Chinese residing in Manchuria, and denounces
the war propaganda which is being broadcast by the military
clique through military training and by means of moving
pictures.
Mr. WADA declares that he was sent to Nagasaki by the
RYODAN. He represents himself as a secret agent of that
organization. He travels a great deal, for he is one of the
RYODAN'S liaison officers. He organization leaves no written
records. Its representatives carry no credentials or means
of identification. Everything is secret, and all communifations
are made by word of mouth. Telegrams and telephone messages
are always disguised and, should they be investigated, would
always reveal some legitimate business enterprise instead of
their real purport.
Mr. WADA came to Nagasaki about a week ago He had legiti-
mate business. But he had other secret business, and his
principal objective was to get his group in touch with the
American Government authorities through the American Consul
at Nagasaki. He approached his task warily, well knowing
that not only his own life but also the vital interests
of his beloved wause were at stake. He found that the
American consulate is always guarded, and he, not having
any legitimate business at the consulate, dared not approach
it in the daytime for he does not wish hßs face to be noted by
any Japanese employee. He failed to find a method of approach
by

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
by day or by night until he happened to notice that 'the
name and address of th vice consul is shown on the front
gate of the consular office. He located the vice consul's
residence, nd found that it was on a quiet street, where
at night there was almost no traffic. It appeared to be a
place he might approach without being seen. He reported
the situation to his superiors, cnd was ordered to approach
the American Vice Consul in the hope that through him the
American Consul and the American Embassy night be reached.
At last he called at 8:15, Sunday night, December 11, 1932.
Mr. WADA seeks for the RYODAN the aid of the American
Government. The RYODAN understands the reasons for American
opposition to Je pan's present program in Manchuria, and
believes that in the United States it pessibly has a strong
ally, as the objectives of each are the same. Mr. WADA
does not solicit the personal aid of the American Consul or
of the Vice Consul. The RYODAN finds that it cannot succeed
in its purpose unless it has explosives or funds with which
to procure them. It requires not less than Yen 50,000, and
any small donations from American officials as individuals
woulc be of no avail. He asks nothing less than the full
cooperation of the American Government in the supplying
of funds for the work of the RYODAN. He says that he has
been entrusted with the task of getting the RYoDAN in touch
with the American Government through the American Consul
at Nagasuki; that attempts have been made to broach the subject
to the American authorities in Tokyo, but that in every case
these have been found to jeopardize the success of the movement
and were therefore dropped; and that he has been told that he
cannot hope for success the first time he approaches the
American Consul at Nagasaki but will have to appeal to him
time and time again in the hope thet success will come after
repec.ted cffort.
Mr. WADA makes a good impression. He has a good,clean,
alert face. He appears to be mentally sound. He was
thcroughly questioned not only as to his background bust as
to his experience with the RYODAN and his individual ideals.
It was suggested that young Jupanese have been known to use
funds for their own entertainment in the cafes and brothels
of Japan's cities. Mr. WADA swore that he did not touch
liquor, and said that for the sake of an hour's enjoyment
of the pleasures of such resorts he certainly would not sell
his soul, for, should he betray the interests of the cause,
his life would be worthless. His comrades would hunt him
down and destroy him, as they rightly should.
I told Mr. WADA that the American Government would not
be interested in such a movement. He was wrong in his as-
sumption that the American people would be sufficiently in-
terested in his "movement" to invest Yen 50,000 therein.
In any case consuls hao no jurisdiction over such matters.
Mr. WADA said that it appeared to him as only right and
proper that such matters be taken up by the consul through
the

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
一4 -
the regular channels, and that he hoped that the consul
would approach the Embassy on behalf of the RYODAN.
He was insistent that I take the matter up with the
consul and reguest him to approach the Ambssador. Mr.
WADA is ready to undertake any delicate mission of
investigation on behalf of the American Government and will
be glad to carry out such an invesfigation in order to prove
the genuineness of the RYODAN. He asks that he may be
permitted to demonstrate not only the earnestness of his
group but also their fficiency nd worth.
Mr. WADA himself spoke of the accusation which may
with apparent justice be made of him and his group, that of
disloyalty to the nation and to the Emperor, but he stated that i
is their belief that theoverthrow by violence of the vested
interests is the only solution for the political ills of
the nation, and, in fact, for those of the For East.
He was assured that his "movement" would be laid before
the consul, and was encouraged to leave the house. He was
not invited to return, but he stated that he would be back
for an answer. In response to my warning that the house
might be watched, Mr. WADA warned me, in turn, not to attempt
to trace his movements nor to locate his lodgings in the city
of Nagasaki.
Glen Bruner.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
Enslosure Mo. 2
Deepstch Xo. 233
Prom Aasrican Eubassy
American Consulate, Nagasaki, Japan,
Tokyo.
December 17, 1932.
Strictly Confidential.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Americun Ambassedor,
Tokyo.
Sir:
I transmit herewith a second report by Vice Consul
Bruner r cordin: a seccnd interview ith the individual claim-
ing to represent the RYolA,  direct-action orgenization
involved in Japanese nolitics.
Unless this person is n agent provocateur of some
sort, either self-appointed or otherwise, it is difficult
to imagine e rational exnl:nation of his actions and words.
I submit the report merely in the hope that it may be found of
some use to the Embassy with its wider knowledge of under-cover
politics in Tokyo.
Very respectfully yours,
Henry B. Hitchcock, Consul.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
American Consulate, Nagasaki, Japan.
December 16, 1932.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: A Second Report Concerning the RYODAN, a
Direct-Action Organization.
Reference is made to rcport dated December 19, 1932.
Mr. Ippei Wada called again at my residence at 8:20
o'clock last night. I was alone in the house when the door
was violently shaken, just as it had been on Sunday night.
I went downstairs and admitted him. He came in without ado,
and we went upstairs to my study und talked until after half
past nine, when he left.
On reaching the privucy of my study, after the exchange
of the customary Japan:se greetings, Mr. WADA seated himself
in an easy chair. He was dressed about the same as last Sunday
night. His man er was easy, and the nervousness which he had
exhibited at the time of the first visit was absent. He en-
quired whether I had conveyed his request to the ccnsul, and I
replied th: t I had done so. He showed much interest and at
once questioned me as to the consul's recepti n of the plea
of the RYODAN. I told him that the consul had said that there
was not even a possibility that his request could be granted;
that, as I had inforned him on Docember 1lth, the American
Government is not interested in his "movement"; and that,
although I had complied with his request und had conveyed his
plea to the consul, it would be well to consider the matter
closed.
Mr. WADA did not appeur to be surprised that the RYODAN'S
request had been rejected, but rather expressed his thanks for
my having put the consul in touch vith his mov ment. He stated
that if the United States Government could not be interested
that was all there was to the matter; and that in return for my
having so kindly taken the matter up with the consul he would
give me some "secret information".
In the following resume I set forth the information given
me last night by Mr. WADA, who states that the RYODAN has
gathered the facts as set forth below, and that the RYODAN
knows that its information is reliable.
In 1931, the Japanese military clique, finding that its
power was waning, decided to strengthen its position. The
General

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
General Staff, activated by General Jiro MINAMI, then
Minister of War, laid very careful plans, and, on the night
of September 18, 1931, creted :n "incident" near Mukden.
This "incident" was entirely & fabrication. The military
forces themselves blew u the r ilway, nd then used
this manufactured "incident" for their own purposes.
Premier AKATsUkI at once called a meting of the cabinet
to discuss the "incident". At this meeting it became known
to the members of th cabinet that the "incident" had been
made to order by the military clique. The passions of the
various cabinet members were aroused. Feeling ran high. Baron
Kijuro EHIDEHilhA, Minicter for Foreign Aff irs, was exceedingly
wrathy that & member of the cabinet should have been party
to so dastardly  plot, cnd penly accused the War Minister
of causing th nation cerious embarrassment in its rolations
vith foreign gover ments. The fight waged fiercely, und the
Prenier was on the point of dismissing the Minister of War.
At this point, Kenzo IlACHI, Minister for Home Affairs,
medinted between the quurreling factions, and persuaded the
Premier that it was the duty of the Ministers of State to make
the best of every situation. ADACHI held that for the War
Ministry to be openly discountenanced would be a disgrace that
would fall upon the whole nation. Moreover, it would reflect
even uno. the Imperial House. And it wus therefore the duty of the
members of the cibinet to stand by the"facts" as they he ve since
been procleimed to the world. At ltst the ADACI srguments won out
and the WAKATsUKI Ministry decided to uphold the Wer Minister
in all that he pretended to have discovered, though the know-
ledge that the"incident" was mere fabrication was exce dingly
trying to ths members f the cabinet, and especially so to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
General MINAMI wus thus suved. But he, en out-and-out
militarist, instead of being grateful for having been seved
from te rible disgrace, determined to be revenged upon his
enemies, and to make sure that his policies would prevail in
future councils of St: te. The War Department then, under the
personal direction of the Minister of War, Jiro INAlI, pre-
pared a death list. The orders were that e very person named
therein was to be assassineted. of course the name of
Tenzo ADACHI was omitted. But, beginning with the Premier,
cijiro WAkATgukI, the list included nearly all of the cabinet,
us well a many rominent bankers, incustrialists, und business
men. MINAMI' plan was well worked out, and might have
succeeded had it not been for the personal relations between
: certain major nd CHUZO MITSUCHI, Minister of Communications.
This mejor was indebted to MITsuCHI for the reason that the latter
had aided him to get an education. He interceded for his life.
The General Staff replied that if personal relations were to be
allowec to enter in, not a life could be sacrificed for the good
of the State, and ordered the major himself to take MITSUCHI's life.
The major refu sed. It was then suggested that the only thing
for him to do was to commit suicide. He decided to do so.
Calling

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
Calling at the home of the Minister of Communications,
he paid his respects to his friend, Chuzo MITSUCHI, and drawing
a revolver from his bosom, was about to shoot himself when
MITsUCHI stopped him. He later succeeded in prying from
the mejor's lips the reasons for such behavior. The police
were called in, but at once said that they could not oppose
the military. Premier WAKATSukI was notified. He called
MIMAMI, and confronted nim with unimpeachable evidence that
this plot had been instigated by MINAMI himself. This created
another intolerable situation. But, as it was impossihle
for the Premier to lay charges at the door of the War Department
without involving the Imperial Family in the person of Prince
KiyIN, Con under-in-chief of the Army, the upshot of the whole
affair was that the WAKATgUkI cabinet r sigaed.
According to the RYoDiN, the whole of Japan's political
life is ta inted. oney talks everywhere. The reason why the
military cligue, od by General AkAkI, brought about Premier
IlukAI'S assassination is that the search of Chang Hsueh-
litng's castle in lukden br u ht to light & receipt for
so,O0o,00o yuan signed by Tsuyoshi IHUKAI.
Mr. WADA asted if I had a c mera. I replied that I had a
srll one which I fornerly used in Nagasaki w th the permission
of the Jpanese authorities, but thut that permission being no
longer accorded to foreign residents of this post my camera had
fallen into dis se. He s id that if I would end it to him he woul
take for me come rare photogrphs which might be of interest
to the American Government, and added that, since it would be
impossible for him to h ve such films developed here, he assumed
that I could develo them myself. I told him that neither I nor
the American Gover ment was interested in obteining any such
photogr:hs.
As r. WiDA ws about to leave the house last night, he again
thenked me for having brought the work of the RYoDAN to the
attention of the American Consul, tnd s id that although
he wes sorry there was no chance of the RYoDAn s request being
gronted by the American Goverument, he wes sure that the United
States would cooperate in other ways. He expressed his cor-
f'Aonce that America would hel overthrow Japan's self-
seeking officials, since he believed the interests of the RYODAN
and the American Government to be identical.
He indicated that he would call again some time later, and
would request that the good offices of the consul be used to the
end that exnlosives be smug led into Japan. Mr. WADA stated
that he vould arrange all local details from this dide, but that
he would ask the American onsul to make it possible for a Japanese
fishing vessel, one of the kerosene-engine driven vessels lmown
to the local authorities to be engaged in the transport of fish,
to meet on the high seas an American vessel and receive therefrom
the necessary arms and ammunition. He declared that members of
the RYODAN would be able to land these supplies without detection.
工

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
I told Mr. WADA that the American Consul could have no part
in such an undertaking. He stated, in reply, that the RYODAN
would have to procure funds before he could make any further
requests in r gard to the matter.
Mr. WADA stated that he was leaving Nagasaki at 1l:00 P.M.
for Tokyo. As he put on his Inverness in the lower hall, he
asked me ot to turn on th porch light, and again said that the
RYODAN would count on the cooperation of the American Consul in
its endeavors to procure explosives.
Glen Bruner, Vice Consul.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
Enolosure Yo. 3
zbay
.
Tokyo, December 20, 1932.
Henry B. Hitchcock, Escuire,
American Consul,
Nagasaki.
Sir:
I have received and read with interest your letters
of December 15 and December 17 in which you informed me of the
calls made upon the Vice Consul by : man who described himself
as Ippei Wada, a secret agent of the Ryodan. Your attitude
and that of Mr. Bruner have my approval. In case this person
or any other person representing this or any similar organi-
zation should apnroach you, he should be made to understand
that the United State will have nothing to do with any attempts
to interfere with the operation of the Japanese Government.
No agent of the United States can associate himself in any way
with disloyalty or sedition.in this country.
I thank you Br bringing this matter to my attention
and I shall be glad to hear of any further developments
in this case. A copy of each of your letters and of this
reply will be sent to the Department.
Very truly yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Ambassador.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Gray
BC
Tokyo
FROM
Dated January 21,1933
F/HS
Received 10:30 
ecretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
JAN 21 1933
894.00/460
25 January 21, 8 p.m
894.50
I an informed that the full toxt of the speech on
foreign affairs mado by the Minister for oreign Affairs
bofore tho Diet today js availablo at the Japanese
794.00
Linbassy in eshin ton and that its substance will appear
in the aorican pross
GRE7
S

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/ 461
894.00 P. R./61
SEE
FORDepatch.#.24S.
FROM .Japan
(..Grew
...) DATED January.4..l933.
TO
NAME
1-1127
0)
REGARDING:
Question of the budget, especially the expenditures
on behalf of the military, is the most important
question before the country in the field of in-
ternal political affairs.
hs

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.90)
In the field of internal palitieml araire, 
quemien of the hadget, espeatally the expemditared
behalf :f the wilitary, is the most impertant ome bature
the coumtry. There is opposition among the publie to the
894.00
embinet's budget and to the dictatiom of the military.
Some of the newspapers have Lten givan expressiem to
such sentiments. The lurge group of dissatisfied politi-
cians h ve not yet dared upanly to oppose the military
but there may be some debate when the Diet meets im Janmary.
It seems likely that the demands of the military will he
mot by the Diet but that the Seiyukai will smatch at any.
op ortunity that presents itself t take ovor the contral
of the Gover'ment.
Premier Saito threstened to dissolve the Diet nd
hold & general elestion if the Beiyakai sheuld emuse too.
moh trouble. He has been halding a series of conferemses
with the leaders of that party end, zs everyome cemeermsd
sishes to avoid the axpemse and unsertatnty of an elestten,
it is reported in some querters that an agrepmmat has beem
reached wherety the Satyakal will suppart the Sovermment.
during the bession or the mst providn he later ul
 t  

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DER
JAN 9
1933
JAN 1 2 1933
Deoember 30, 1932
MEMORANDUM
REOETVED
The Kokumin Domei, a new political
party in Japan.
JAN 11 1033
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
According to press reports, a new Japanese political
F
894.0
G
party, the Kokumin Domei, was inaugurated on Deoember 23,
1932, in the presence of 3500 delegates. The press re-
894.00/462
fers to it as the "National League", whioh is the official
translation, although a more accurate translation would be
"People's Party". Thirty-three Diet members are said to
belong to it, most of them reoruited from the Minseito,
the second largest political party in Japan. The leader
of the new party is Kenzo Adachi who, as Minister for Home
Affairs in the Minseito Cabinet under Premier Wakatsuki,
precipitated in December, 193l, the downfall of that
Cabinet by political intrigue.
The press states that the new party is of Fasoist
tendenoies, the correspondent of the NEW YORK HERALD
TRIBUNE referring to it as "the first Fascist parliamentary
party in Japan". These tendenoies are indicated by the
adoption of a flag with a golden eagle on a light brown
JAN 12
baokground, a uniform of blaok belted jaoket and striped
FILAD
trousers, and by the advocaoy of certain policies, e. g.,
1933
replacement

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
replacement of the Cabinet by a national counoil of
state responsible to the Emperor, control of publio
utilities and shipping, and a Far Eastern Monroe Dootrine.
Some weeks after the Manchurian inoident broke out,
Adaohi began to expound the view that the serious orisis
with whioh Japan was faced demanded the formation of a
National Government. The idea was pleasing to the
bureaucrats and the military, but not to the politioal
parties, as it was believed by many persons that Adaohi's
motives in fomenting the idea of a National Government
were not too remotely conneoted with his personal
interests. The Minseito as a party definitively rejected
the proposition, and Adachi promptly resigned from the
party.
It would seem that undue importanoe should not be
attaohed to the formation of this new party of allegedly
Fasoist character. Its leader, who is 68 years old, is a
skillful politician ambitious to beoome prime minister but
laoking in qualities requisite for a statesman, and in
Japan the strength of a party depends tefy rather on
the personality of its leaders than on policies. It is
soarcely oredible that Adaohi, who has shown himself in
the past to be an opportunist, can be a sinoere advocate
of reaotionism. It is more probable that he is attempting
to

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.85)
- 3-
to give to a political party of the usual type a reaction-
ary coloring in order to take advantage of the nationalistio
sentiment at present widespread in Japan. Comment by press
oorrespondents indioates that the Japanese press is
skeptioal of the chances of sucoess of the party.
The Japanese Antadn Mni 
w pary 
worugy
FE:LES:CLS
11

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ETTN
February 17, 1933.
EHD:
C. 1. 3n, m, N.
SRA
Tokyo's telegram 40, February 14, 8 p.m.
Major Witsell informed me over the
telephone that copies of all telegrams re-
ceived by the War Department from the
Military Attaché at Tokyo are sent to the
State Department.
As the Ambassador assumes that the
Department sees these telegrams and as we do
see them, I suggest that this telegram be
filed without reply.
FSA
LÉS:CLS

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.96)
72
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
44
McL
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
Tokyo.
fore being communicated
to anyone.
Dated February 14,1933.
Received 9.25 A. M.
V
Division of
F/G
FAR EASTTIN AFFAH
Washington.
FEB 14 1933
61938
Depertment of State
894.00
40, February 14, 8 P. M.
March
I assume that the Department sees all telegrams
894.00/463
sent by the Military Attache to the War Department.
GREW.
WSB
HPD
MAR 7- 1933
FILED

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.91)
March 6, 1985.
894.00/463
Dear Mr. Grew:
I refer to your telegram No. 40 of Yebruary 1s.
1933, with regard to telegrams received by the war
Department from the Military Attaohe.
According to an officer of the Division of
Military Intelligenoe, oopies of all telegrams whion
the Military Attaohe sends to the War Department are
forwarded to this Department.
Yours sinoerely,
Sktonbale
The Honorable
Jomeph C. Grew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
NA.
u..b
FE:1ISI0L3
Mar.7,1988

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
RECU
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 26, 1933.
No. 266.
Subject:
Political Situation in Japan.
1333
F/HS
44
894.00/464
宏
Division of
FAR EASTERU AFFAIRS
FEB 14 1933
epartment of State
MAR 1- 1933
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
When the present Saito super-party Cabinet was formed
in May, 1932, it was generally understood that it was an
emergency cabinet and that it would relinquish its authority
when the emergencies which called it into being ceased to
exist. It now appears that the time is approaching for
the Saito Cabinet to relinquish the reins of office and to
give place to a cabinet more in keeping with the principles
of

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of parliamentary government. It is not believed, how-
ever, that the change will take place until after the
close of the present Diet session.
The principal opponent of the Saito Cabinet is
naturally the Seiyukai, the political party which controls
an absolute majority in the Lower House of the Diet and
which hopes to be called upon to form a cabinet in suc-
cession to the Saito Cabinet. A group of the younger members
of the Seiyukai is in favor of opposing the Cabinet in the
Diet and forcing the issue. The Cabinet could, however, in
such case dissolve the Diet and call a general election,
which the older members of the Seiyukai do not wish, as an
election might result in the party losing its majority in
the Lower House. Moreover, the public has shown no enthu-
siasm for a return of the Seiyukai to power. It is known
that Premier Viscount Saito and Dr. Suzuki, the President
of the Seiyukai, negotiated during December regarding the
attitude of the Seiyukai during the coming session of the
Diet, and it is now reported that the decision reached was
to the effect that the Seiyukai will not force the issue
during the Diet session(unless something unforeseen occurs),
with the understanding that the Saito Cabinet will resign
as soon thereafter as the emergency conditions permit. The
Seiyukai hopes that Prince Saionji, the sole surviving Genro,
will then recommend to the Throne the formation of a Seiyukai
Cabinet.
The Minseito, the second largest party in the Lower
House, will support the Saito Cabinet, on the grounds that
the present Cabinet was formed for special purposes, such
as relief of the farming class and restoration of economic
confidence

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
confidence, and that it should remain in power until it
has accomplished its task, after which it can dissolve the
Diet, call a general election, and turn over the reins of
the Government to a cabinet formed by the majority party.
The real reason behind its support of the Saito Government,
however, probably is that it sees no possibility at present
of obtaining control of the Government and prefers to work
with a super-party cabinet rather than to be the opposition
to a purely Seiyukai Cabinet.
The Kokumin Domei, Mr. Adachi's new party, is the dark
horse in the political situation. It is openly opposed to
the Saito Cabinet and apparently wishes to force a dissolution
of the Diet in the hope of obtaining a greater number of seats
than it now controls(32) in case of a general election. At
present it is unable to exercise any power unless it can join
forces with the dissatisfied group in the Seiyukai. The
Kokumin Domei is sometimes called the "Fascist Party" of
Japan but it has little in common with Fascism except a
uniform which somewhat resembles that of Mussolini's party.
Mr. Adachi's platform consists of the promotion of the
national spirit and of international justice; the adoption
of a state economy which will redistribute wealth, guarantee
a living to the masses and avoid their exploitation by the
capitalists; and the purification of politics and the estab-
lishment of a strong government by the abolition of the
Cabinet and the substitution therefor of a state council.
He advocates the readjustment of treaties binding Japan
in the Far East and the establishment of a Monroe Doctrine
for Asia. His platform is skilfully designed to appeal to
the

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
the Japanese popular taste, but whether or not the Japanese
people will place any confidence in a man of Mr. Adachi's
reputation remains to be seen. It will be remembered that
it was commonly rumored at the time that Mr. Adachi was
bribed by certain financial interests to resign from the
Wakatsuki Cabinet in December, 1931, thus causing its down-
fall and bringing in a Seiyukai Cabinet, which removed
Japan
from the gold standard and made immense profits for the
exchange speculators.
It is rumored that the Saito Cabinet itself feels its
weakness, lacking the wholehearted support of a majority of
the members of the Lower House, and is willing to resign
after the close of the Diet session, in order that a more
homogenous cabinet, better able to cope with the situation,
may come into power. What complexion the new cabinet will
have is as yet a matter of conjecture. As stated before,
Prince Saionji is reported to be in favor of a Seiyukai Cabinet,
but the people have by no means regained confidence in the
political parties and would probably oppose the installation
of a cabinet of politicians at a time of great national stress.
A Fascist Cabinet under Baron Hiranuma is now out of the
question, as the vogue of Fascism has declined rapidly in
Japan in recent months. A group of bureaucrats under Baron
Y. Kubota, a Privy Councillor, is reported to be manoeuvring
for the formation of a new non-partisan cabinet upon the
resignation of the Saito Cabinet.
Whatever cabinet comes into power, however, there is
no reason to believe that the policy of Japan toward the
League of Nations and the Manchurian question will be sub-
stantially altered, as the smoldering revolt against the
control

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
-5 -
control of the Foreign Office by the War Office has not
yet taken any concrete form.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
11
11
11
Berne
In quadruplicate to the Department

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STAIE
TOKYO
MAR 1 1933
DIVISION OF
Despatch No. 266.
Date: January 26, 1933.
Subject: Political Situation in Japan.
Summary: From various reports which have reached
the Embassy it appears that under an agreement
between the Saito Cabinet and the Seiyukai( the
majority party) the Seiyukai will not force the
resignation of the Cabinet during the present
session of the Diet but the Cabinet will resign
soon after the close of the Diet session. The
Seiyukai hopes to be asked to form the new Cabinet
but the country does not seem to favor a return to
party government as yet. Another super-party
Cabinet is possible.
The Minseito is supporting the Saito Govern-
ment probably because it prefers to work with a
super-party Cabinet rather than to be the opposi-
tion to a purely Seiyukai Cabinet.
Prinoe Saionji is reported to be in favor of
a Seiyukai Cabinet. A Fasoist Cabinet under Baron
Hiranuma is now out of the question, as the vogue
of Fascism has deolined rapidly in recent months.
Whatever oabinet oomes into power, however,
there is no reason to believe that the polioy of
Japan toward the League of Nations and the Manchuran
FILD
question will be substantially altered, as the smolder.
ing revolt against the control of the Foreign Offige
by the War Office has not yet taken any conorete form.
:CIS

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 16, 1933.
Tokyo's despatch No. 271 of January 27,
1933, reports Ashida's interpellations in the
Diet, which were critical of the military and
which were reported in the American press at
the time. Excerpts of the replies of the
Minister of War are given, similar to the press
reports.
No considerable opposition to the military
and naval budgets developed in the open session
of the Diet. A member of the Lower House made
a veiled attack on the military by inquiring
what authority determines the military and
naval strength of the nation. The Prime
Minister replied that it is decided by the
General Staffs with the consent of the Govern-
ment.
ES:CLS

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 271.
Tokyo, January 27, 1933.
SUBJECT:
Opposition to the Military in Japan.
FEB1333
F/HS
894.
894.00/465
Division of
FAR EASTE AFFAIRS
KX
FEB 14 1933
Department of State
FEB 2 3 1933
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
As an indication of a slowly-developing revolt among
the political parties of Japan against the military control
1/.
of the government, I enclose herewith the full text, as
published in the JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL, issue of January
23, 1933, of the interpellations in the Diet of Dr. H.
Ashida, a Seiyukai member of the Lower House of the
Diet
F

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Diet and the publisher of the JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL (see
my despatch No. 249 of January 10,1933). The Embassy
is informed that the news agencies cabled brief reports
of these interpellations to newspapers abroad and that
considerable comment was aroused thereby.
The principal points in Dr. Ashida's interpellations
consisted of (1) an assertion that Manchuria is at pre-
sent being controlled and governed almost entirely by
force by the Japanese Army and not in accordance with
any general national Japanese policy looking toward the
welfare of Japan and expressing benevolence toward the
people of Manchuria, and (2) an intimation that the
Japanese Army controls the foreign policy of Japan. Dr.
Ashida requested answers to the questions: (1) "Has the
Minister of War the intention, at least for the time
being, of forsaking the notion that the Army is almighty
and of properly utilizing the power of national unity
which was attained for the sake of the Manchurian ques-
tion?" and (2) "Why, then, may I ask, does the Foreign
Minister not make up his mind and carry out the diplo-
matic policy which he selects as that which Japan should
pursue, even at the cost of his life or in the face of
the obstacles and hindrances which exist in the country?
I regard it as a disgrace to the constitutional govern-
ment of Japan that a situation exists in which not a few
people are persuaded that the Army is responsible for the
diplomatic policy of the country.
In

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
In reply to the first question, the Minister of War
is reported to have said (JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL, January
25, 1933), "that he wished clearly to point out that
while there are many who still possess the idea that the
army intends to handle everything in Manchuria, and con-
sequently refrain from investing capital in that terri-
tory, the army does not intend to shoulder the entire bur-
den of leading Manchuria to peace and prosperity. Further-
more, he asserted, it is neither correct for the army to
think it should shoulder the entire burden, nor is it its
duty to do so. The army welcomes any suggestions or advice
with regard to the settlement of the Manchurian question
and will gladly extend whatever cooperation it is within
its power to offer to this end." The Foreign Minister is
also reported to have said (JAPAN ADVERTISER, January 24,
1933), in reply to the same interpellation, "At the time
when Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang's administration collapsed,
the military authorities formulated the policy of Japan
toward Manchuria but after that time there were no such
abuses as are charged by the speaker."
In reply to the second question (regarding the alleged
military control of the Foreign Office), the Minister of
War is reported to have stated (JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL, Janu-
ary 25, 1933), "During the thirty-odd years I have been in
the army, there has never been a time when there was greater
cooperation between the War and Foreign Ministries. If the
Army

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
Army is being charged with having gone too far, that
is another question, but even so I do not think we
have gone too far. In any event, there is no truth in
the statement that there is a War Department diplomacy
but not a Foreign Office diplomacy."
The Foreign
Minister is also reported to have stated that "there is
no foundation of truth in the supposition that the Army
is dictating to the Foreign Office."
No considerable opposition developed in the open
session of the Diet to the large military and naval bud-
gets. On January 23, 1933, Mr. Shinya Uchida, member of
the Lower House attacked the military and naval budgets,
pointing out that the Navy budget of Yen 370,000, 000 is
greatly in excess of the estimated budget compiled after
the London Naval Conference, and asking for information
as to the basis of the Army's demand for Yen 145,000,000
for Manchurian expenses. He then made a veiled attack on
the military by demanding a reply as to the authority
which determines the military and naval strength of the
nation. Premier Viscount Saito replied that the strength
is decided by the General Staffs with the consent of the
Government. The Minister of War placed the authority in
the Emperor, with the General Staffs operating through
their right of direct appeal to the Throne. The TOkYO
NICHI

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.93)
-5 -
NICHI-NICHI, English edition of January 24, 1933,
significantly reports that "The House greeted the War
Minister's reply with invectives and laughter."
Respectfully yours,
oL.
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
Clipping from JAPAN TIMES, January 23,1933.
800.
ERD:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping
n
n
n
Berne

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No
to despatch
No271 of Jau:27, 1933 from the
The Japan TImes.
Embassy at Tokyo.
Toyo. Monay. Jamry . 1933.
Seiyukai Inter
On Fe
Relation
Mo evidence of Japan h
ated magnanimously in Mancl
national foreign policy, or whother
met mlone of our power
the Foreign Offce is following the
dictation of the War Office. Dr. 
Ashida, a member of the Seiyukal
n nd tangible evidence
Larty, and Iresident of The Japan
ence of our power all
Tim s, made an interpellation in the
Manchuria, but we certainly wi
Lower House early this afternoon in
 trace of our benevolence.
what is expected to bo the principal
Meedless to may, Japan's poli
Seiyukal crfticism with regard to the
mehuria is part of its imp:
foreign poliey of the Government,
atibnal policy. And yet, alt
Dr. Ashida said:
From beginning to end the Foreign
Japan's Manchurian policy is th
Minister's speech is consistently op-
resshn for the cxistence of th:
(imistic. His statements, even with
regard to existing conditions in Man-
responssbdlity for leading Mant
bélded'in the public mind tha
chukuo and our relations with Rus
is being shouidered exclusivel
St. as well as the manner in whicn
the army. Starting with offci:
he judges the atmosphere of the
the Japanese Embassy, ail imp
Longue of Nations. display an ov-
posts in Manchurta are eccupi
timism hardly in keeping with tho
army people, and all important
present grave situation. Accordingly.
sans dispatched from Japan a
while paying my humb'e respecta to
cupants of posts in Manchurit
the Foreign Minister's lofty ideals
army people. For this reason
regarding international politics.
taking th's opportunity. I wou!
tmust point out that it is plainly
to seek the consideration o
evident to all who examine the
Minister of War on this matte
uchicvements of the present Govern-
ask how the Government are d
ed in regard to it.
ment in the light of the Forei
afinister's statement that what. he
Has the Minister of War the
has cald oannot in any way be reu
tion, at least for the time bed
conciled with the actual polley that
forsaking the notlon that the
ls Almighty and of properly ut
the Government is pursuing.
h power of national unity
A(cordingly the impression is in
s attained for the make 
culeated in the minds of the peopl
Manchurian question? This
ns they are informod of the Gove matter on which our nationals
ernment's foreign policy as expound. ike mowt keenly to be enligh
ed by the Foreign Minister, and om Let us remember that the Ma
scrutinizing the gulding spirit of
éan question at the present
cu- Imperial diplomacy, that we are eohstitutes Japan's entire dipk
Foeal Roint
charted and pitch-dark abyss, me
In connection with the Mane!
Tacident and the dieousaleas
being guided.
Where is the Government leading
the nation, and what  to be Japan
future? A consideration of the
questions cannot but sive risé
grave doubts and miegivings ame
the people.
What Ia Manoha.ria Poliey?
To begin with, 1 ould like to
the Government what is their fun
mental poliey with regard to. M
chura? The greatedt algnificance
Japan's diplomatic issues, needlems
may. attaches to the Manchurtan p
blem, and the manner in whiah
are to conduct our affaim 
tepritory Ls the basle of Jag

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.95)
losure No
to despatch
71 of Jau:27, 1933 from the
assy at Tokyo?
1.90S.
Seiyukai Interpalation
On Foreign Relations
CENSUS POPOLATION
AUDIENCE AT PALACE
SET AT 90,396,043
from the Foreign and War Ministes
peted magnanimously in Manchu::a,
as to whether Japan has a definite
which should have obtained the be-
national foreign policy, or whether
hnts not alone of our power and
the Foreign Omce is following the
dictation of the War Office, Dr. 
we can nd tangible evidene of th-
prostige, but our benevolence as well.
Tamon and Yoda Received
Inhabitants of Japan Pre-
Ashida, a member of the Selyukal
Party, and President of The Japan
odstence of our power all over
by Their Majesties the
per Are Found to Num-
Timm s, made an interpellation in the
Lower House early this afternoon in
o trace of our benevolence.
Manchuria, but we certainly will find
Emperor and Empress
ber 64,450,005
what is expected to be the principal
Selyukal crfticism with regard to the
Manchuria is part of its i  tant
Needless to say. Japan's poli in
CHEERED BY CROWD
MEN LEAD IN TOKYO
foreign policy of the (Government.
ational pollcy. And yet. although
Dr. Ashida said:
Minister's speech is consistently up-
From beginning to end the Foreign
Japan's Manchurian poli is tho m in
uniformity
reason for the ev en e of the N
coordi ion of
Thousands Line Snow-Covered
Streets Near Ueno Station
Nation's Widows Outnumber
Bereft Males by More
regard to existing conditions in Man-
chukuo and our relatlons with Rus-
sin, as well as the manner in whicn
he judges the atmosphere of the
Lrague of Nations. display an oo-
timisn hardly in keeping with the
timistic. His statements, even with
tho army. Startine wth offieials i
the Japinese Emtassy. all important
(posts in Manchuria are occupid by
army people. and all important per-
responsitllity for leading Manchurla
is being shouldered exelusively by
tional Cabinet. the Impression 1s im-
bedded in the publie mind that the
of Sendaf. who d'stinguished hiin-
If in Manchiria, and Major-General
Coumnander of thie Srcond Division
Sliiro Yoda, coumander of the as:h
Li atetant-tG neral Jiro Tamon.
on Arrival in Tokyo
of the Statisties Bureau of the
Cabinet published yesterday, the total
colonies. is placed at 90,396,043 per-
population of Japan, including her
Accordirg to a preliminary report
Than Three Times
present grave situation. Accordingly,
sons dispatehed from Japan as oc-
division of Utsunomiya. wh, per-
Hons. This figure is based on the
while paying my humb'e respect to
cupants of posts in Man huria, are
formed useful service in Chosen.
census carried out by the Govern-
the Forelgn Minister's lofty Ideals
army people. For this reor
and
were received in audiene this morn.
ment in 1929.
The population of
must point out that it is plainly
regarding international politics,
taking th's opportunity. I would like
to seek the consideration  the
and Empr ss in the Imperial Palace.
Ing by Their Majesti's the Emnoro"
Japan proper is said to be 64,460,005
perFons.
evident to all who examine the
Mánister of War on this matter and
H 1.H. Prinee Kan-in, Chef of Army
One of the important features of
tinental poliey. Japan today sta
at the crossroade, and its destiny wil
ernment's foreign policy as expound.
the nation, and what t to be Japan's
future? A consideration of these
mental policy with regard to Man-
churra? The greatest significance in
Japan's diplomatic issues, needless to
say. attaches to the Manchurlan pro-
blem, and the manner in which we
are to conduct our affairs in that
achlevements of the present Govern-
ment in the l'ght of the Foreign
afinister's statement that what he
culeated in the minds of the people.
ns they are informed of the Gov
being dragged blindly into an un-
knowing in which direction we are
questions cannot but give rise to
grave doubts and miegivinge among
the Government what is their funda.
territory ás the basie of Japan's con
has cald cannot in any way be re-
conciled with the actual polley tha!
the Government is pursuing.
ed by the Foreign Minister, and on
scrut:nizing the guiding spirit of
cu- Imperial diplomacy, that we are
charted and pitch-dark abyss, not
being guided.
the people.
d'al measures taken in Manchu
Where is the Government leading
To begin with, 1  ould like to ask
Accordingly the impression is in-
What Is Manch.ria Policy?
splaying irasc:bility before the
etgue is the lerst important thing.
biem is, after all, the healthful deve-
ask how the Government are dispos.
ed in regard to it.
man guestion at the present time
constitutes Japan's entire diplomacy.
Power Treaty ar I the Kellogg-Briand
with regard to Manchuria. To Japan.
tion, at least for the time being.
forsaking the notion that the Arn
Is Almighty and of properly utilizing
the power of natfonal un'ty which
matter on which our nationals would
tike most keenly to be enlightened.
Let us remember that the Manchu-
converging point of the whole pro-
lopment of Manchuria. Accordingly.
although the League is still preoc-
garding the Covenant and the Powers
are engaged in Jisputes over the 9-
Pact to Outlaw War, it is hardly
necessary for th Government to dis-
state of mind. especially in the mat-
ter of explaining Japan's pas: actions
he fundamenta question about the
plution of the problem is improving
was attained for the sake of the
Manchurlan question? This is a
Incident and the discussions at the
League, it ls to be noted that the
cupled with heated discusslons re-
play an trascible and acrimonious
 situation ir Manchurla and fost-
Has the Minister of War the Int
In connection with the Manchurfan
Focal Point
de Caoital thts morning. arriving at
Gon ral aff. Lt.-Generad Sadao
the Veno Sta ion at 9:50 a.m. for
their audience with Th Ir Majesties
Manchuria and Korea. The two ira.
mediately proceeded to the Imperial
Palace in a motorcur suppl'ed by the
ed Maf.-General Yoda. Later thev
general staff of the Second Regiment,
gl. and Lt.-Colonel Nakamura also
Makino. Loxl Privy Seal. 1r. Ikki.
and General Nara were present.
Araki. Minister f War, and General
to report on their operatfons in
Imperial Household.
by the Emperor at 11 o'clock. follow-
were granted an audience with the
Lt.-Colonel Kurashige. Capta'n Taka-
of the Second Division were 1ike-
the four other off- ers were given an
Marshal Princo Nashimoto. Lt.-Gen.
Minister of the Imperial Household.
Maj.-Gen. Yoda called on H.I.H.
Prince Kan-in, Chief of Army Gen-
Yoa. Chief Aide de-Camp Vora
Empress. Colónel Ueno, chief of the
wise reccived by the Emperor.
Imperial luneheon in the ITome'den
Hall of the Imperial Palace.
Military Education, Count Nobuaki
Araki. Genersl Hayasht. Chtef of
Admiral Suzuki. Grund Chamberlain.
desen? at the Imperial aud ence.
1I.I.H. Prince Kan-in, H.I.IH. Field.
Lt.-General Tamon was recelved
At noon, the two commanders and
Afterwards Lt.Gen. Tamon and
Phe two returned horoes reached
Osaka prefecture came next with
the report published yesterday is the
male clement is decidedly more
Sex is predominant. In this respect,
'he Tokyo prefecture is an outstand.
ing example with a masculine pre-
sons to 100, or a male majortty of
one-sided feature in the preponder-
led other provinces in number with
approximately
'umcrous while in others the female
ponderance in the ratio of 111 per-
son to widowers, the women leading
the men by more than three time.
ance of males, Tokyo prefecture also
3.540,000 persons.
proper easily surpassed those of her
of inhabitants being 169 persons per
square kilometer in Formosa 95 in
again was the leader in this respect,
with a density of 2,522 persons per
square kilometer and Hokkaido
(or men within Japan proper, the
men outnumbered the women by sse,.
froot that in some prefeoturee the
s.3 percent.
large number of widows in comparl-
colonies by a wide margin, the ratio
Korea and only 28 persons in Kara-
bringing up the rear with 82 persons.
prefectures as against 17 prefecturés
futo.
Another interesting feature is the
Bsides leading the Empire in it
In density of population, Japan
Among prefectures,
While women predominated in se
Tokyo-fu Leads in Density
5,480,000, pervon.
Tokyo-f
eral Staff and made a report on their
ponerete plan with regard tot
heis shoudering this important
mebility? Count Uchida, in my
two years' work in North Manchurla
and Koren. They were schcduled to
Tokyo. prefecture.
shomld, after all, be the man
make a similar report to Lt.Gén.
fer shi at present.
Armiet, Minister à War at Br40
the uplution of this
o'clock. In the evemine. they will be
in Geneva
smenta at a dtnmer to bè stven 
new-covered streete cheered the re-
industries, wi
turning commanders.
A hugh civic receptiom is planned
ondine ourselves to argu-
for the two commanders on Thurs-
aböut the name-plate. I would
Inv and Friday at tho Trihivn nidi.
to aak what Count Uchdia's re-
torium and also at the Tokyo Kai-
polloy.
is on this matter.
knn. The meetings will he held
If the assertiom that Lieet-
under the numpiau ne Tot-so. Trusfeo.
Araki, the Mintster of War, is
e the debate on the Manchi-
ture, Tokyo Municipality and the
to reiterate to the point of ma
 question was reopened by the
Tokyo Chamber of Commerec.
uctually the Government's prude
In the conduct of its affairs in M
It one of his maxims,-which is
Japan does not meek a penny
material gain from Manchuria,
brernment and their delegation
 exerted the utmort efforts for
the fact that the Japanese
entiro nation are cogn'zant and
rue of Nations in November last
country. is a matter of which
in the cause of the Empire during
'he past (wo momentous years. It-
Gen. Tamon and Major-Gen. Yoda
wil? cuch be granted nn Imperial
ilver vase by His Majesty the
In view of their honorable service
Japan proper, numbesed 
tween the aes o
churia, there would be all the me
which. they are. nt the sam.
Emperor, It was announced this
ime. thankful.
mいrring.
ty 4,727.000.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.90)
H.I.H. Prince Kan-in, H.I.H. Fieid.
churm? The greatest significance in
mmy. Allaobés to the Manchurtam pu-
Jabas's eipleánatic jssues, needless to
blem, and the manner in which we
with regard to Manchurla. To Japan.
pláy n frascible and acrimonious
state of mlnd, especially in the mat-
ter of explaining Japan's past actions
Marshal Prince Nashimoto, Lt.-Gen.
Makino. Lord Privy Seal. Dr. Ikki.
Arakl. General Hayashi. Chief of
Military Education, Count Nobuaki
again was the leader
with a density of 
Among
are to conduct our affairs in that
tegritory Ls the basie of Japan's con-
aplaying irasc!bility before the
Fegue is the lerst important thing.
Minister of the Imperial IHousehosd.
1dmiral Suzuki. Grund Chamberlain.
bringing up the rear 
tinental pollcy. Japan today stands
The fundamenta: questlon about the
and General Nara were present.
at the crossroads, and its destipy wall
sclutien of the problem is improving
Afterwards Lt.Gen. Tamon and
the sitvatlon in Manchuria and fost-
Maj.-Gen. Yoda called on H.I.H.
men outnumbered the w
Prince Kan-In, Chief of Army Gen-
will be succeasful. Despite this, the
State.
ral Staff and made a report on their
Government have neither indloatedte
Who is shoudering this important
wo years' work in North Manchurla
ponsibility? Count Uchida, in my
Ind Korea. They were scheduled to
and Japan. nos have they shapm
Anlon, should, after all, be the man
ponsible for this at present.
nake a similar report to It.Gen.
Araki.  nister of War nt 3:40
tere women were in.
fundamental policy towards Manchu
The key to the molution of this
o'clock. In the cvenin~. they will he
rla. Not only have they fdled 
blem does nct repose in Cleneva
guests at a dinner to be given by
prefectures:
namely, Yame
alarify their policy on this count
In Manchuria. To let others nt-
he Minister of War.
but they have fallen shont in many
ti to the Manchuu ian enterprise
The he roes of Manehurin were
prete as wen "we were te
piven an enthusietir repion on
whieh the Government have into
tne
negotiations as happen to attract
o   
morning, and thousgida Hming
executlon since the recognit'on of
one's not!ce at the moment, is like
:now-covered streete pheered the 
Manchukuo in September last year,
or rather the lack of them, we vould
arecting a building and letting others
take charge of the important detalls
turning commanders.
A hugh civic reception is planned
be constrained to harbor consider ble
while we confine ourselves to argu-
'or the two commanders on Thurs-
more than 8
misgivings as to whether the Goy-
ing abou: the name-plate. I would
'av and Priday at th ubiva aud.
ernment are in possesslon of a clear
like to ask what Count Uchdia's re-
torium and also at the Tokyo Kai-
policy.
colve is on this matter
an Tho menting wlli ho 1.ld
pervons. Mining e
If the asscrtion that Lieut.-(ren.
Efforts Recognized
umber with 286,180 pe.
Arak1. the Min ster of War. is wont
Since the debate on the Mancu-
ture. Tokyo Municipality and the
Classified according to 
to reiterate to the point of making
rian quertion was rropeued by the
Tokyo Chamb r of Ceameres.
and boys under 15 years ofs
Japan does not reck a penny in
It one of his maxims.—which is that
Governnent and the deleeation
year. the fact that the lapanese
League of Nations in Novembr last
n the , tuse of the Emp re during
'Le pist wo mem ntous yeae. Lt-
In viw of their honorable sorvice
Japan proper, numbered 28,802,000
36.7 percent of the total population
'xcluding the colonies. Persons be
material in fron Manchuria.—ls
have exrrted the ut:  (fforts for
en. Tanon aud Mo jor- G n. Yala
ween the ages of 15 and under 
setualty the Gove nnont's prudence
the countiy. 1s 1 matt r c wh.
umbered approximately 35,8272,000
In the conduet of its affairs in Man-
the entire natien are  n: and
1r ve hy : Majest the
or 35.9 percent of the total. Person
churia, there would he all the moro
for whici. they at it the sam
 rer. it wie anuneed this
bove n vears of age totalled rough
reason for Japan to bring the spirtt
ime. thenkiet.
 rrine
4737 000
of tho Kingly Way into reality and
We heve, n r or, until td
Divided according to married and
esk'ng whether the Government's ad-
it would be incumbent en her to
exert every effort in an honest en-
deavor to make Manchuria verily a
country for the Manchurians.
would like to take the liberty of
wholeh artedly supported the Goy-
fenormentl p e Jar owa ds
ernmen: in whstever they havo ad-
vocated, but i!  ccur to u: :hat
there is so  e deubt in the minds of
the people as to what exa tly is he
wle'eye  theet ef the Man.
1111
adopt toward, the League.
n c diio. hre ctn be no hop
1:0:1 91
Vi: wing thing. in the 1 ght of pre-
P Porarph 4 of
Lofre lone the
unmarried classes, the former num-
bered 25.210,480 persons and the lat-
te 33,999.730 pergons. Widow and
wilowetrs totalled 4.251,150 person
and divorced numbered 605,690 per-
sons
Total Population
ministra'ive nicasures conform to
this policy.
the L ague.
A dres we re een  u
Pl. pthie tie to come
Artiele 1 1 we mr in all pro-
64,450,005
persons
in the compil'ng of a mul'itude
laws and regu'ations. and wh je t
Marchuria is. in a wo d. manife ted
The resulr of Japan's endeavors in
Multitude of Laws
Leagu le e
und g 1  J
stend that dh  f:n
the Legnhn in thisi
onsr1. 111the
"il!
tnhoo in In tht  n: 1iking
t 1. raed n a. . he
1.bLgue
f  i1 (n e1 o Jacn
Chosen
Formora
Karafuto
Grand Total
21,058,305
90,896,048
4,593,587
295.198
to bo noted that governmental bn
net w thdr w.
gverni.aent will not be in a post-
s'ness is growing more compl'ente
day by day. Japan is not in posss
membered that there is hardly Tke
sion of an administration wh ch vi
propeily serve ns the fourcatien 
thes endeavor:. tor it mus: be re
ly to be any polit'cal benevolenco
a nega'ive wev. : d even tevar is
ernm nt hae be n di:posed t, d
the Leagu 1: f. Tae Gn rior
cince lart year. ba, be a  lieed i
have pre cup: d the meeves with
the conduct of such problems as we.
brought to their attentlon at the mo-
More han hi. hte the
J::  l oL: 1V rej+t all out-
onvi ed taat it is a centinty that
tecniron to witidrow fron: the
This natter beng ene of grave nn-
Leon  O is  Japan's intentien to
ion to  pt suen couss 1 fo we are
cnore all counel from the League?
id.  1 s Japan ::e de-
where there is no statecraf. There
men, aed have given the people the
p rane. I would like to vrqutre how
impr,: sion that they are wave ring in
the Government are d'sposed in re-
of a clear determination of their
indecisien and are no, in possessien
card to io
Japan's wichdrawal f om the
duy.
League will put the optim'stie views
In view of the fact tha: our coun-
which the Foreign Minister has
try is participatina as a member f
te ad astly maintained siree last year
the League in the diseussi ns on the
(Cor.tinued on Page 2)
Manchurian quostion. an! has re-
cently even consented to the invok-
Ang of Paragraph 4 of Articie 15. we
mannot but feel that the Government
 convinced that it can persuade the
powers in the League. which is an
institution for the promotion of world
reace, to recognizo Manchukuo's in-
epence, and thus make the indepen.
enco of Manchukuo the basls of in
maintenance of peace in the Far East.
Deploros Arguments on Trifles
If such is the Government's pottey.
Japan should consider things from a
roader aphere and endeuvor to guide
the League to a true undersianding
the mituation, and should strive te
werk with it so that maiters will
an out to Jupan's advantage. Why
the Governiment dally preoccupied.
though for the suke of 1.s own
oment, with heated arguments
 debates over such trifling mnt.
the wording of minor detafls
the various resolutions?
it not incumbent on Japan to
 Manchuria and to stick to
last, striving all the while.
to persuade the Lengue of
ganess of its policy? le
tion of such an attitude
of estaalishing peace in the
ntrue mech as being

=== Page 203 === (confidence 1.00)
Despatch No. 271
Date: January 27, 1933.
Subject: Opposition to Military in Japan.
Summary:
Dr. H. Ashida, Seiyukai member of the
Lower House of the Diet, interpellated
the War and Foreign Ministers regarding the
high-handed policy of the Japanese Army and
the claim that the Foreign Office is domina-
ted by the War Office. Replies quoted. Mr.
S. Uchida interpellated on the subject of the
Army and Navy budgets and the matter of su-
preme authority in the Army and Navy.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.93)
CHARGE SLIP
894.00
File No
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
ATE
LERK'S INITI
Remarks
79
446

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.94)
ASSIFICATION CADA
 5-20-64 from Donald 1. Simn
BEUEVED
138 28 1933
CONCIDEN
DIVISION OF
FROM
Al
Tokio
MET
This telegram must be
Dated February 23, 1933
closely paraphrased be-.
F
11
fore being communicated.
Rectd 7:42 a. m.
to anyone. (c)
Divisign of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Paraphrase sest
Secretary of State,
FEB 23 1933: to the Prencdent, Feb. 23,'33.
12A
Washington.
894.00/467
800
468
894.00
45, February 23, 1 p. .
noti
STRIOTLY CORPIDENTIAL FOR THE SECRETARY.
793.74
In any estimate of the situaticn 1 the Far East the
followin elenents should be givon consideration.
One. By the decisi on of t e Cabinet to secede from
the League of Nations Japan has prepared to burn her most
important bridge with the outside world. This step indi-
cates the complete supremacy of the military and a funda-
mertal dofeat for the moderate olements in the country.
Every important step by the League of Nations has been
forestalled or succeeded by a fait accompli here in order
to demonstrate Japan's independence of and disregard 
Western interference with what se conceives to b her
bliff
authority in her attitude. The military themselves, and
the public through military propaganda, are fully pre-
pared to fight rather than to surrender to moral or other
pressure from the West. The moral obloquy of the rest
of the world at present serves only to strengthen not to
modify

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
MET
2-#45 from Tokio, Feb. 23, 1 p. m.
modify their determination. Any tendency on the part
of the Government to compromiso would almost certainly
result in further assassinations if not in internal
revolution.
Two. In this national temper the following elements
play their part:
4
(a) - The desire of tho military to maintain prestige
and thoir detormination to brook no interforence what-
evor;
(b) - Tho essontial importanco of saving face which
permits no backward step;
(c) - The carefully nurtured belief that Manchuria
is the "life line" of Japan;
(d) - Long strained exasperation with the formor
chaotic conditions in Manchuria and the failure of the
Chinese to fulfill their treaty obligations;
(o) - The total disregard by the military of future
financial difficulties arising out of the huge expenses
of the Manchurian campaign;
(f) - The basic inability of the Japanose to com.
prohond the sanctity of contractual obligations when
opposed to their own Far East interosts.
THREE. With regard to tho drive into Johol, it is belioved
that

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
MET
3-#45 from Toki0, Feb. 23, 1 p. m.
that special measures have boen taken to avoid going
south of the Great Wall even although this decision
may rondor the campaign considerably most difficult and
costly. Nevortheless, it would bo unwise to disregard
the possibility that unforeseon developments or incidents
may in futuro lead to the taking of the Peiping-Tientsin
line. If the Lcagug of Nations sh ould apply active sanc-
tions Japan's reply would vory lilely be to occupy North
China. This, of course, would bring foreign interests
into diroct conflict with Japan and constitutes the
greatost future potential danger.
FOUR.
 Finally, it may be said that a large section of the
public and the army has been led by military propaganda
to believe that eventual war betwoen the United States
and Japan or Russia and Japan or both is inevitable.
The military and naval machines aro in a state of high
efficiency and aro rapidly boing strengthened. They
possess complete self-confidence and arrogance. The
navy is becoming more bellicose. In the present temper
of the army and navy and the public there is always the
risk that any scrious incident tending to inflame public
opinion might losd Japan to radical steps without count..
ing the cost thereof. In this rospedt conditions are
stil1 procisoly as set forth in my 224, Soptomber 3, hoon,
The

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
MET
4#45 from Tokio, Fob. 23 1 P. 
FIVE.
The foregoing briof summary ropresonts the opinion
cf all the principal mambers of my staff as wall as of
most of my diplomatic collcagues and othor foroignors
hore.
Six. Strict pross bans aro in force prevonting tho pub-
lication of any infoimation concerning tho prosent oper-
ations in Johcl s: thct tho Enbassy is in tho dark con-
corning militury dovolopmonts.
Ropcatod to Poiping.
WSB-HPD-CSB
GPEW

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.96)
PARAPKRASE
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Telegram dated February 23, 1933, from the Ameriemm
Ambassador at Tokyo, reads substantially as fellows:
Consideration should be given to certain facters in
estimating the situation in the Far East, namely,
Japan has prepared, by the Cabinet's decision to
leave the League of Nations, to destroy her most importamt
link with other countries, thereby indicating a fundamental
defeat for the moderate elements in Japan and the complete
supremaoy of the military. In order to demonstrate her
independenoe of and disregard for Western interference
with what she conoeives to be her own vital interests,
Japan has forestalled or followed by a fait mocompli
Bul
every important step made by the League of Nations.
Japan's attitude is entirely free of bluff. Rather than
to surrender to moral or other pressure from the West, the
military themselves, and the publie through military
propaganda, are fully prepared to fight. At present their
determination is not modified but only strengthened by the
moral obloquy of the rest of the world. Further
assassinstions, if net intermal revelutiem, would almeet
certainly follew any tendeney on the part of the Govermmemt
to compromise.
The fellowing fastors have their plaee in the
metiomal temper:

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
The determination of the military to brook me
interference whatever and its desire to maintaim prestige;
The saving of face whioh permits mo step backward
and whion is of essential importance;
The belief, whioh has been oarefully murtured, that
the "life line" of Japan is Manohuria;
The intense exasperation with the failure of the
with
Chinese to fulfil their treaty obligations and/the former
ohaotio oonditions of Manohuria;
The military's complete disregard of future finanoial
difficulties arising out of the huge expenses whioh the
Manohurian campaign entails;
The fundamental inability of the Japanese to oompre-
hend, when opposed to their own Far East interest, the
sanotity of contraotual obligations.
It is believed that, with regard to the advanee
into Jehol, special measures have been taken to avoid go-
ing south of the Great wall even though the campaigs may
be rendered considerably more eostly end diffioult by
this decision. It would not be wise, however, te disre-
gard the possibility that the taking of the Peiping-
Tientsin lime might eventuate frem unforeseem develep-
ments or ineidents. The oeeupetiem of North Chime weald
very likely be Japam's reply te the epplieatiem of aetive
samsticms

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.97)
一 3 -
the greatest future potential danger. It would, of
course, bring foreign interests into direst comfliet
with Japan.
Military propaganda, it may be said, has caused
a large seotion of the publio and the army to regard as
inevitable war between Russian and Japan or between the
United States and Japan or with both countries. The
naval and military maohines are rapidly being strengthened
and are in a high state of efficienoy, possessing complete
self confidence and arrogance, while the bellicosity of
the navy is increasing. There is always the risk that.
in the present temper of the navy and the army and the
publio, Japan might be led to radioal steps, without
counting the cost thereof, by any serious inoident which
tended to inflame publio opinion. The conditions
deseribed in my telegram No. 224, September 3, noon, are
still precisely the same in this respeet.
The opinion of most of the diplomats and other for-
eigners in Tokyo and of the prineipal members ef my
staff is represented in the foregoing brief summary.
The Embassy is without informatien with regard to
military developments in Jehol besanse striet press bams
prevent the publieation of any information about the
present operations in Jebel.
The Legatien at Peiping has been seat a cepy f tmís
telogram.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.93)
February 23, 1933.
Dear Mr. Richey:
At the direction of the Secretary, I am enclosin
for the information of the President a paraphrase of a
strictly confidential telegram No. 45, dated February
2sul 1 p. m. from the American Ambassador in Tokyo to-
gether with a paraphrase of the Ambassadorstelegram No. 
dated February 3, 1932.
Very sincerely yours,
(N..)
Tuecr7
mee
894.00/447
Honorable Lawrence Richey,
The White House.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
Prm is Iun ofle
Han
THE WHITE HOUSE
 at 1
WASHINGTON
N
REOETVD
F
hl
H
has
DIVISION OF
Divison of
S
The Honorable
FAD EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Decretary of State
Vashin;ton, D. C.
MAR 18 1933
y dear Mr. Secretary:
894.00/468
I have received, at your direction, the
telegram from our Ambassador at Tokyo, of February 23rd.
89400467
This raises a most serious question.
897
As you are avare, I have all along been
inflexibly opposed to the imposition of any kind of
sanctions except purely pub ic opinion. The imposition
of any kind of sanction, military or economic, would in
the present state of mind of the Japanese people, provoke
the spread of the conflagration already in progress and
might even involve the United States.
MAR 31 1933
FII.ED
As it is not our intention to ever engage in
sanctions other thun that of public opinion, it would seem
to me that some occasion should be taken to make it clear.
It vould certainly relax the tension to some extent. It
would in no way undermine the importance of public opinion
in this controversy for under the non-recognition doctrine
that would be continuous and will ultimately be triumphant.
Confidential File
The whole doctrine of non-recognition is not
alone a method of invoking world opinion but it is equally
important in the phase that it avoids precipitant action
and allows time to vork out proper solutions.
It occurs
to me therefore that we should make it clear somehow. It
vould, I believe, relax a considerablo amount of present
tension.
Yours faithfully,
see 893. 01. manshia
429

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.93)
FEB 28 1933
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FARÉASTERN AFFAIRS
DC
409
 ndey
relun
FE
Divisiono
FAR EASTERN AF
FEB 24 1933
844.
Department of State

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.74)
jurele
R380
22

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
country
last and to state the views and
In pursuance of their settled
policiss of the Japanese Govern-
port on the latest developments
ment concerning them.
policy, the Japanese
chukuo on Bept. 15 of last year.
all the rights and interesta of
that any menace to Manchukuo
By this instrument Japan has
definitely recognized Manchukuo
às an independent State, while
Manchukuo is pledged to respect
Japan and her subjects in that
has at once direct bearing upon
which have occurred in major
the welfare of Japan, provisions
fumse of that State and for the
ests of Japan in Manchukuo and
allke from internal and external
are also introduced for joint de-
stationing in its territory of Jap-
dangers. It means that a new and
affective guarantee has been es-
protection to rights and inter-
fnsures the safety of that country
The protocol thus affords full
Wuntry, secured either by treaty
ablished for the maintenance of
peace in the Far East.
anchukuo has made rapid and
balthy progress, and especially
dress was made public tonight by
 of major hordes of bandits.
Full Protection Is Given.
situation has naturally rè-
d favorably upon the com-
esive annihilation or disper-
and order consequent upon
achieved in its internal
and finances of Manchu-
Manchurians themselves
questions affecting this
n shared by Japanese and
since the extraordinary
of the Diet in August
the resultant benefits
arred in its bellef that
concurrently
Government
for that
ready stated, invaded the province
have crossed the border into the
course, bound by recent protocol
tang Congress. As a matter of
préhension. We are compelled to
fortunate eventualities that may
have of late been notoriously rife,
and some contingents of regular
troops under Chang Hsiao-liang
province.
tion is a purely domestic affair
for Manchukuo, Japan is, of
to join forces with that country
in the task of maintaining peace
government of Japan.
plenary session of the Central Ex-
operatlons along the North China
frontier, support for volunteer
armies of the northeast and anti-
ous sources since leads us to be-
in process of concentration near
the borders of Manchukuo and
some of them have, as I have al-
not look upon such a state of af-
fairs in China without gravest ap-
ariee from the situation and to
lavite them to think seriously be-
churia and Mongolia. Particular-
ly in the light of circumstances
leading to the establishment of
Manchukuo, it is evident that the
province of Jehol conatitutes an
Integral part of the new State.
ing disturbances in that province
and order throughout its terri-
a matter of serious concern to the
in that country continues as ever,
while the anti-Japanese move-
ment shows no sign ef abatement.
It was reported that during the
écutive
mintang [Nationallst party] con-
vened at Nanking in December
mitted which called for military
Japanese boycotts.
lieve that this proposal for a posi-
tive anti-Japanese movement was
actually adopted by the Kuomin-
of Jehol.
campaign against Japan was sub-
However, manoeuvres for creat-
Information obtained from vari-
While the so-called Jehol ques-
As for China, political confusion
The Japanese Government can-
Serious Concern Is Volced.
Warning Given to China.
Committee of the Kuo-
for a positive
and united efforts, as I heve sald
opportunity until the above thesis
special Commitiee of Nineteen,
hearty cooperation to the League
League is concerned with ques-
nant to the abnormal situation in
and unrealistic. It will only com-
in the Orient, the cooperation
before, of Japan, China and Man-
chukuo are essential. At the same
Chino-Japanese dispute on Jan.
10, but at various meetings of the
ig thoroughly elucidated and un-
that the Japanese Government,
prestige, are ready now as ever
to collaborate fully and in the
friendliest manner with that body
in its efforts to contribute to the
tions relating to China, a certain
of the exceptional and abnormal
conditions of that country.
modified when applied to China.
not alone remain exceptional to
China on analogy of an appar-
ently similar case of the situation
time harmony and collaboration
between Japan, Manchukio and
publics are important.
deavors, not only as regards the
which resumed discussion of the
League, and at every possible
derstood.
who have always extended their
and have directed their best ef-
forts to the enhancement of its
peace and prosperity of the Far
ment belleve that as long as the
usage governing ordinary rela-
The covenant of the League can-
that rule.
elasticity should be allowed in
operation of its covenant in view
tionships between different States
are.
East.
Fortunataly, the Sovist Ualon
In point of fact. various princi-
It is hardly necessary to may
However, the Japanese Govern-
We will persist in our
An attempt to apply the cove-
Failure in Effort Predicted.
practice,
considerably
the
en-
the
tories, but has shown itaalf to be
was sest to the Boviet Union Gov-
ernment toward the end of last
some years ago at Peiping, and
provided for in the anti-war pact
a living force, as has been fully
between the two countries during
vary as to time and form.
ment have concluded that the
time has not yet arrived for ne-
gotlating the non-aggression pact
super-imposed upon treaties now
in fores. Our reply to that affect
motest intention of aggression in
Japan aust certainly be on guard.
say somsthing on the question
twasm Japan and the Seviet
Union. The principle of non-ag-
past years, and especially during
of clothing this principle and this
quarters, the Japanese Govern-
actual relationship in a formal
treaty of non-aggression,
been on the matter since
Spring, when the proposal
Union Government.
stoutly maintained in different
In view of divergent opinions
Aim at Aggression Denied.
is fully understood
questions
attended as it ki
for its own
the natural
are both signa-
coviring
You
last
and
has
our
erally m
férence, pé
by an Inferior one If th
throughout the world, in à
Our prop
 r posl-
tntter of
 ; rovince
nuo and
 of late
u ement.
-nt can-
ng the
th China
ent was
ad anti-
uate.
nuomin-
e of af-
to the
at the
ountry
:fusion
to the
vest ap-
nd the
at may
Kuo-
vositive
usty be
alled to
the un
ent of
rliang
sotocol
ore, in
 ever,
lunteer
tes an
y rife.
xed.
is, of
creat-
ovince
tances
affair
move-
peace
terri-
ques-
friendliest manner with that body
special Committes of Nineteen,
which resumed discussion of the
League, and at every possible
opportunity until the above thesis
is thoroughly elucidated and un-
who have always extended their
to collaborate fully and in the
deavors, not only as regards the
Chine-Japaness dispute on Jan.
10, but at various meetings of the
derstood.
and have directed their best ef-
in its efforts to contribute to the
peace and prosperity of the Far
The covenant of the League can-
nant to the abnormal situation in
China on analogy of an appar-
ently similar case of the situation
that the Japanese Government,
hearty cooperation to the League
forts to the enhancement of its
prestige, are ready now as ever
ment believe that as long as the
League is concerned with ques-
operation of its covenant in view
conditions of that country.
üsage governing
modified when applled to China.
not alone remain exceptional to
in European affairs is bound to
and unrealistle. It will only com-
plicate and aggravate the situa-
prestige of the League, inflicting
in the Orient, the cooperation
and united efforts, as I bave sald
before, of Japan, China and Man-
chukuo are essential. At the same
East.
tions relating to China, a certain
elasticity should be allowed in
of the exceptional and abnormal
tion and injure needlessly the
cause of universal peace.
between Japan, Manchukuo and
the Union of Socialist Boviet Re-
tionships between different States
that rule.
time harmony and collaboration
fail.
publics are important.
It is hardly necessary to say
However, the Japanese Govern-
In point of fact, various princi-
Fortunataly, the Sovist Union
We will ,persist in our en-
For sécuring permanent peace
An atteppt to apply the cove-
Fallure in Effort Predicted.
Such an attempt is vain
ordinary rela-
considerably
to the
stoutly maintained in different
ment have concluded that the
time hé not yet arrived for ne-
gotlathen the non-aggression pact
of the
Union
gressid
some
livin
demoni
actual relationship in a formal
quartem, the Japanese Govern-
in forogi Our reply to that effect
was seskte the Soviet Union Gov-
tween
not on
Japan
provid
tories,
batwe
past y
Only
treatysef non-aggression,
Spring when the proposal
ernmet
motes
the 8d
fereno
tinued
tude
to wh
of clot
vary
been
Union
super-
year.
coursa
contra
positic
Govarz
import
magni
know
first
appred
Genev
In view of divergent opinions
The
Aimtat Aggression Denied.
to time and form.
cn the matter since
how
sdvanced by
Government.
force, as has been fully
the two countries during
lan it comes to the matter
for in the anti-war pact
embodied in the Russo-
the principle of non-ag-
ars ago at Pelping, and
hosed upon treaties now
teward the end of last
ated by actual relations
Bention of aggression in
deliberations on various
Union, but quité
a February last, con-
etween two countries is
basic treaty, signed
has shown itself to be
they are
attended as it l, by
and I am sure that
questions
1 by the Soviet Ualon
ves of practically al
mes of unprecedented
varied opinion
the natural solicl-
gor its own national
does not mean, of
we retain the re-
world.
and every pértici-
this entand othe
the
Soviet
views
This
You
last
was
has
and
our
tion of total tonnage allotments of
according to which, through abo-
lition of aircraft carriers and re-
duction in number of capital ships
calculated that reduction amount-
ing altogether to 1.300,000 tons,
will be realized in the navies of
States, France and Italy.
and A-class cruisers alone, it is
principles of disarmament gen-
erally accepted at the present con-
ference, particularly the principle
principle it logically follows that
in equal ratio the
will finally convince them of its
that the power for attack should
fense increased. From the same
greater sacrifices should be made
were both to reduce
proposal takes into account, as
be reduced and the power for de-
by a superior naval
by an inferior one.
would be
diminished.
practicability.
throughout the world, in addition
to obstructions to trade created
the collapse of the price of silver
and the confusion existing in ex-
countries are busily engaged in
erecting artificial trade barriers
putting limitations
tions on exports and imports.
as a result of this policy of the
closed door, which is now prac-
ticed everywhere in trade and in-
dustry, the universally cherished
principle of freedom of trade has
been entirely reversed. The prin-
ciple of free ezahange of goods
along with that of freedom of
between
To turn to the economic field,
Our proposal is based upon the
It is to be greatly regretted that
Better Defense Proposed.
Tariff Walls Criticlsed.
thorough
unduly
nations
and unjustly
sense of se-
or prohibl-
power than
their navies
examination
If the two
constitutee
sire to conclude my address with
a few words on the basic ideas
various aspects of foreign queey
fundamental principle of Japan's
peace of the Orient and, as corol-
lary, that of the world.
light of the realitles of the inter-
while accepting the universality
stated above.
in order to obtain true peace that.
League of Nations covenant very
lleves that any plan for arecting
the exigencles of the actual con-
ditions should be allowed in their
practical application.
wisely provides that regional un-
In this sense our government be-
of Japan is the mainstay of tran-
she has no intention to pick à
as will accord with international
the edifice of peace in the Far
East should be based upon reoog-
nition that the constructive forée
quility in this part of the world.
designs anywhere in the globe,
justice and to work hand In hand
as a nation to see that sbe con-
quarrel with
tributes her resources, her power
It is needless to say that the
Such
gard to the
world.
It is our resolve and our duty
Japan entertains no territoriad
No Quarrels Are Sought
of Japan's forsign polloy
Government
so cautios that nétliia
establishment of the
 Far East.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/469
793.94/5912
FOR Tel.#.44...6..pm.
SEE
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED February 21..1933.
9
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
"Young Officers Union" is again very active,
having circularized army and others, demand-
ing withdrawal from League. Direct action
against Shidehara, Makino and Admiral Suzuki
is considered possible.
hs

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
7E
MET
Tokio
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
Dated February 21, 1933
fore being communicated
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 8:25 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
44, February 21, 6 p. m.
793
CONFIDENTIAL. The Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs in conversation today wi th a member of the Embassy
2
stated that it had been the intention of the Japanese army
6
力
to start the offensive into Jeicl on the 22nd or the 23rd
of February but that there ssemed to be some delay although
he did not expect the delay to be more than three or four
89.4.00
days. He said the army expected to reduce the province in
about two weeks, but his own opinion was that it would be
longer, probably about a month.
In this connection the Military Attache reports
that troops of the ninth division are in action against the
Chinese l07th brigade and volunteers in the vicinity of
Officers Union" is again very active, having circularized
the army and others, demanding withdrawal from the League.
This action probably influenced the Cabinet's decision
yesterday. Direct action against Shidehara, Makino and
Admiral Suzuki is considered possible.
Repeated to Peiping.
WSB - RR
GREW

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
894.00
FOR INFORMATION OF DR. HORNBECK, STATE DEPARTMENT (NOt for publ1cht1on)
Extract from Weekly Report from American Commercial ttache H.A.Butts, Tokyo, dated 
January 28,1933.
Division of
DCR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
"CONFIDENTIAL SECTION
FEB 20 1933
Political
Depertorwent of State
Dr. Ashida, a member of the House, and of the eiyukai Party, created
considerable excitement both at home and abroad in his speech requesting information
regarding the foreign policy of the Government.I
Dr. Ashida is also the publisher
of the "Japan Times & Mail", and the following quotation is taken from that paper.
894.00/470
hence it is presumed to be correct:
'Although uniformit and coordination of Japan's Manchurian policy
is the main reason for the existence of the National Cabinet, the impression
is imbeded in the public mind that the responsibility for leading Manchuria
is being shouldered excluviwely by the Arry. Starting with officials in the
Japanese Embassy all important posts in Manchuria are Army people. Has the
Minister of War the intention at least for the time being of forsaking the
notion that the Army is almi hty and of properly utilizing the power of
national unity which was attained fof the sake of the Manchurian question?
Let us remember that the Man hurian question at the present time constitutes
Japan's entire diplomacy.
Dr. Ashida's remarks certainly represent the viewpoint of the entire
thinking population. However, contrary to the implication of Dr. Ashida's remark
that foreign policy might better be in the hands of the Foreign Office than the
ar Department, the public at large is content with the results that have been
achieved. Of course, the statement merely confirms what we have been writing for
the past several months.
Mr. Kodama, President of the Yokohama Specie Bank, in discussing publicly
the financial outlook for the coring vear is quoted in the Press as follews:
'It may be possible that the United States would act as in the past to
aggravate the relations betwen itself and Japan, but it must be pointed
out that the so-called Stimson policy would accomplish nothing. The
uneasiness felt in financial circles in the United States towards Japan
FILED
is not due to Japanese policies towards the Asiatic Continent. American
apprehension is largely directed to the financiad status of this country.'
i2
1
Solely for the Bureau's informat on, I might say that his remarks
(2)
follow very closely along the lines of thought held by most of the American resident's
in Japan."

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/
SEE
893.00/12316
FOR
Letter
FROM Miss Ina Bowers
) DATED March 2,1933
7
TO
NAME
1-1127
47
REGARDING:
Information on China and Japan and recent maps of Chim.
Requests -.
esp

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
694.00 . R./83
FOR ....Dompateh.d.00.
894.00/472
FROM .Jap
()DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
472
REGARDING:
Few developments have occurred in the
internal affairs of Japan during the
month of February. The Diet is still
in session but its proceedings have
been very dull.
hs

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.87)
一2-
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFVAINS.
There have been few deveiopments im the ixtermak
affairs of Jupan during the month of Fobruary. he Miat
is still in sessiim but its preecsdings have been vary
00
dull. Rumors persist concerning the resignatiom of the
C.binet fter the tersinetion of the resent sosslon, but
it becomes lass nd lems clour who ix to suceeud Premier
Bnito if ne cocs resign. There is & ramor that Fimenge
tinister Takahashi will resign soon and be replmeed by
Baron Tutsuo Yamsmoto, the present Miniator fer Bome
Affairs, ond that Dr. Kisburo Susuki, Presidert of the
Soiyukal, will be -ppointod Hoae Miclster. fhis would
be : strategie positi.n for the Prosidant 5 the Seiyukas
in ease a general election ware hald and sume thiak thas
Dr. Sumnki's appointmems to it somld mean that Premier
Balto was pleaning te resigm. Mvwever, it might algé masm
at he rhd cone to some rent itt
deminant party fer ite grester pmrtiaipation in the Cablt
 that he Mad no ixteati or reige Th lass

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.86)
CHARGE SLIP
894.00
File No.
EFCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLeRK's INITIALS
REMArKs
473-
Rp- Beed
31745 ℃7
474
. NT PEING IC 1-1433

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/475
895.00/12328
Despatch # 2003
SEE
FOR
China
Johnson
March 15,1933
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1137
T.V.Soong on Warlordism.
REGARDING:
Encloses statement of , and two editorials published in
Peiping and Tientsin papers regarding his statements.
esp

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/6176
Te1.#530-1 pm.
894.00/476
SEE
FOR
FROM
China
Johnson
..) DATED
▲pr.14.1933.
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Visit of Yoshizawa to Peiping. Reports regarding -.
He apparently believes Seiyukai will succeed present
government in Japan in May,he himself becoming
Minister for Foreign: Affairs. He was accompanied
by Count Iwaki and Mr. Hashimoto.
,.fpg

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.96)
72
cib
This telegram must be
PEIPING
closely paraphrascd be-
fore being comnunicated
Dated April 14, 1933.
to anyone. (B)
Recd 5:05 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington.
3
330, Apri1 14, 1 p.m.
6
Yoshizawa visited Peiping. I am informed that he
was not able to see any Chinese of importance here or in
the South. I believe purpose of his visit was to inform
himself of current Jhinose reactions to Japanese occupation
9
of Jehol and activities along Wall. He left impressed with
fact that for the time being no Chinese are preparod to
commit themnelves to negotiations direct or i:direct. I
9
believe that he exnects a change of government in May or
at latest in July and that Seiyukai will succeed present
government and that he will be Minister of Foreign Affairs.
He was acc mpanied by Count Iwaki of the House of Peers and
Ir. Hashimcto of the Diet.
Repeated to Tolyo.
JOHNSON
CIB WP

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/477
SEE
793.94/6180
FOR .Tel..#..8O,..1l..am.
FROM Japan
(.Gro
) DATEDApri115.1933
TO
NAME
1-1127
477
REGARDING:
Prediction of a change in the Japanese
Cabinet before very long.
hs

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
to
MET
Tokio
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
Dated April 15, 1933
fore being communicated
to anyone. (c)
Rec'd 5:58 a. m.
Sccrctary of State,
Wcshington.
C
611
80, Apri1 15, 11 a. m.
Roforencc Feiping's 330. April 14, 1 p. m., while
it is unwise to make political predictions in Japan
under pruscnt circumstances, the press reports of an
carly fall of tho Cabinct are probably premature. A
changc in th c Govornment will in all probability take
A
plaec before very long, but I cnn informed on reliable
0
authority that Princc Saionji dosires tho prosent Cabi-
net to rcmain in power for the present. As ono influ-
intial Japanese said to me, "Japan is in a serious rut
and docs not know how to get out of it. Wo do not wish
a now Cabinet until that way out can be found, but when
a now Governmont docs como in it will fcllow a moro con-
ciliatory policy in international affairs than the
present one". The conscnsus of opinion among the moder-
ate thinkers is that the policy hitherto followed has
brought the country into a dcplorable international
position from which Japan must extricate hersclf by a
new oriontation. Japanese history, they point out, shows
that

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
2-#80 from Tokio, April 15, 11 a.m.
that the country has passcd through poriodical cycles
of anti-forcign chauvinism which in evory case have
boon followed by poriods of international cooperation,
as in the Moiji cra. Thoso liberal thinkers, many of
whom are substantial and influential men in high posi-
tion, confidcntly predict a similar outcome in the
present situation and they aver that the military lead-
crs ticmselves are now more willing to liston to reason.
Similer statoments hay been made to me for many
months past but the prosent asseverations appoar to
carry moro conviction and assurance than those made
provi usly. I am aware that they come directly from
the Gcnro himself. The decision to withdraw from the
Leaguo of Mations, by which Japan is placcd in an
unenviable position before the world, is the climax
which may conceivably give the moderates the foothold
for which they have waited during the past eighteen
months.
In view of the effective occupation of all Man-
churia it is difficult to foresee precisely what form
a new and conciliatory orientation in foreign policy
will take. Nevertheless there exists a feeling here
that the political pendulum has now swung as far in
the direction of chauvinistic nationalism as it will
go

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
3-#80 from Tokic, Apri1 15, 11 a. m.
go and that the eventual future tendency will be towards
international conciliation rather than a continued iso-
lated defiance.
Under the present domination of the nation's
affairs by the military I rersonally consider that it
is idle to predict a change of orientation in inter-
national rolicy until concrete evidence of such a
change is forthcoming. The foregoing views and hopes
for the noderates are therefore for the present
re'orted as worthy merely of attentive consideration
rather than as reliable prophecy. epeated to Peiping
by mail.
HPD
GRE

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.95)
h
π
INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH CORPORATION
67 BROAD STREET
NEW YORK
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 18 1933
THE UNDER SECRETARY
Department of State
14 1933
April 7, 1933
F
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
File
G
4.00
14 1933
not.
Honorable William C. Phillips,
Under-Seoretary of State,
DIVISION OF
894.00/478
Department of State,
WESTERN EURUPEAN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
59
Attached are the political and
economic sections of our Managers' reports relating
to Tokyo and the Soandinavian District.
Faithfully yours,
Frank C. Page
Vice President
APR 22 1933
Encls.
FILD

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
March 9, 1933
REPORT FROM TOKYO
General Remarks on Political and Economic Conditions
The 64th Ordinary Session of the Imperial Diet which has been
resumed since January of this year has only two more weeks before its final
adjournment. In this session, various legal measures as well as the annual
budget for the fiscal year of 1933 involving the amount of more than
¥2,230,000,000 were approved. The political situation after the closing of
the present session cannot be definitely predicted at this moment, but irre-
spective of it, our financial circles are bound to have great inflation. With
the approval for the 1933 budget, bond issue to the extent of 1,000,000,000
is authorized. Such a large amount of bond issue is certain to cause great
17
financial inflation and the rise of commodity prices which can be regulated
partly by the market operation of the Bank of Japan, but such an operation will
only retard temporarily, but not check indefinitely the inevitable consequences.
The amount of bank notes outstanding as at the end of February is
¥1,156,Ol3,000. Compared with the amount outstanding as at the end of January,
this is a decrease of 87,000,000. Commodity prices which had been steadily
rising since last July declined by 3% in Februery as compared with the preceding
478
month. These are probably due to the market operation of the Bank of Japan.
Regarding our foreign trade for February, export amounted to
¥118,890,000 and import to ¥182,368,000, giving a total of ¥301,258,000 and
resulting in the adverse trade balance of about 63,000,000. Compared with
the corresponding period of last year, export increased by 48% and import by
42%. These increases are largely due to the slump in the exchange rate of the
yen which remained at approximately twenty one cents throughout the month.
5

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
March 18, 1933
REPORT FROM SCANDINAVIAN DISTRICT
Political and Economic Situation
The Norwegian Government which was formed by the Farmer
Party in May, l93l, resigned at the end of February, and a new liberal
cabinet was formed with Mr. Mowinckel as Prime Minister. It was the
economic questions which prostrated the Government this time. It is
generally expected that the new Goverrment will be more liberal than
the old wi th regard to social undertakings to relieve unemployment.
In connection with the annual report and the accounts of
the Norwegian State Bank for l932, the Director General, Mr. Rygh,
held his usual speech on the economic situation. According to what
he said, the business activity in Norway has been fairly well kept up
as compared with other countries, and in his opinion the position at the
end of 1932 was better than a year ago.
The recent depreciation of the Danish krone was reflected
in the wholesale price index which showed an increase from ll7 in Jan-
uary to l24 in February. The effect on the cost of living is not known
yet.
The recent raise in the German duty on agricultural products
will affect Denmark most seriously and will virtually bring the Danish
export of cattle to Germany to an end. The Danish exthange committee has
announced retaliatory measures in arder to bring about further reductions
in the importation of German goods to Denmark.
Arter a transient decrease some weeks ago, the number of un-
employed in Denmark 1s again increasing, and reached 193,140 people in the
week ending March 3rd.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.83)
4o
CHARGE SLIP
11113 2net
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DAT
CLErK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
140 SPA-Harley
RB. Leis
479
7
2.17-15
B.S.0VEENT PBINTING OPPICE 1—1432

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 474.
Tokyo, July 14, 1933.
SUBJECT:
Recrudescence of Reactionary
Activities.
794,00
Division of
F/G
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 23 1933
Depertment of State
PI
894.00/480
COPIES SENT TO
O. N.I. ANDM. I. DA
The Honorable
AUG 2- 1933
LED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
For the past eight months (since the arrest of
a gang of young reactionaries, including Hidezo To-
yama, on November 5, 1932) little has been heard of
the reactionary movement in Japan, and therefore it
was with some surprise that it was learned on July
1lth that the police authorities had discovered and
frustrated another reactionary plot.
The persons involved in this latest plot were
members of the Dai-Nippon Seisanto (Great Japan
Production

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
Production Party), a reactionary organization affi-
liated with the Kokuryu-kai (Black Dragon Society)
and headed by the reactionary stalwarts, Mitsuru
Toyama and Ryohei Uchida. Some 49 members of this
organization, principally from the branches in the
prefectures of Osaka, Hyogo, Nara and Tokyo, organ-
ized themselves into a band called the "Dai Nippon
Shin-heitai", or "Great Japan Godly Soldiers" and
gathered in Tokyo on July 1Oth. The police learned
of the gathering, however, and arrested the men at
the tourists' dormitory attached to the Meiji Shrine,
whither the band had gone to offer prayer before
taking action. On the following day (July 1lth),
the police raided the headquarters in Tokyo of the
Seisanto, and there discovered three Japanese swords,
some canteens filled witn gasoline, and a large quan-
tity of banners and handbills. The banners bore in-
scriptions such as "Ensure the Life of the Imperial
Government"; "Ensure an Economic System based on
the Imperial Way"; "Restore the Imperial Way"; "Down
with Communism"; "Wipe Out the Plutocratic Government";
"Strengthen National Defenses"; and the names of ancient
deities and emperors. The handbills consisted of ap-
peals to the Imperial Army; proposals for the promo-
tion and reform of the Japanese Empire; appeals to
the people; and declarations of the plotters' purposes.
The intention apparently was to distribute the handbills
over Tokyo after a reign of terrorism had been inaugurated.
There

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
There is an unconfirmed rumor that five young
military and/or naval officers have also been ar-
rested in connection with the arrest of the Seisan-
to members. According to the newspapers, the police
have not yet been able to obtain any confessions from
the members of the band, who claim to have come to
Tokyo solely for the purpose of offering prayers at
the Meiji Shrine for the welfare of the nation at
this time of crisis and for the enhancement of na-
tional defense. The police, however, apparently have
other information which makes them believe that a
serious incident might occur, as they posted extra
guards on the llth around the Premier's official
residence, those of other Cabinet Ministers, and
Embassies. RENGO states that the plan was to assas-
sinate the Premier, the Minister for Home Affairs,
the War Minister, Count Makino, Baron Wakatsuki
(President of the Minseito) and Mr. Suzuki (the
President of the Seiyukai). The possession by the
plotters of a detailed floor plan of the Metropoli-
tan Police headquarters also led the police to believe
that the scheme included a raid on police headquarters.
The alleged plan to assassinate Saito, Yamamoto,
Makino, Wakatsuki and Suzuki is in line with previous
plans of ultra-reactionaries to abolish political par-
ties and the parliamentary form of government, but the
inclusion of the name of General Araki in the list of
those marked for assassination injects a new element
into the situation. It appears that there has been
considerable

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
considerable dissatisfaction among the younger,
fire-eating element in the army and navy with
General Araki. It is known that he has been act-
ing as a brake on the more violent elements in the
Army, much to their discomfiture. He has come out
openly in support of the Saito Cabinet, implying
his approval of the present form of government, which
some elements among the militarists and reactionaries
would like to change to one more in keeping with the
vague principle of the "Imperial Way". Moreover,
he has given his tacit approval, at least, to the pur-
chase of the Chinese Eastern Railway by Japan or "Man-
chukuo", while the more violent elements in the Army
take the stand that Japan already controls the rail-
way and that there is therefore no reason why Japan
or "Manchukuo" should pay for it. It is presumed by
some observers that these constitute the reasons for
marking General Araki down for assassination.
Certain factors indicate that this latest demon-
stration by the reactionaries was not intended to be
serious and was in the nature of a warning. In the
first place, those involved acted quite openly, with
the apparent intention of attracting the notice of
the police. In the second place, the expedition to
Tokyo of the reactionaries was not well planned or
equipped. The band apparently had no fire-arms,
hand-grenades or explosives, and possessed only three
Japanese swords for forty-nine men, with a small amount
of

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
of gasoline with which to start fires. It does not
seem possible that the band could have inaugurated
a reign of terror with this meagre equipment. Cer-
tain observant Japanese with whom the writer has
talked believe that the incident is simply a no-
toriety-seeking scheme on the part of the participants.
The trial of the reactionaries involved in the inci-
dent of May 15, 1932 (in which Premier Inukai was
killed) is now taking place and has fired the imagi-
nations of the young dare-to-dies among the Japanese.
Other observers attach a deeper significance to the
scheme and believe it to be in the nature of a warn-
ing to the courts not to deal too harshly with those
involved in the affair of May 15, 1932.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
800.
ERD:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
11
11
Berne.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
Embarry,
Jokyo.
MTH:
Despatch No. 474
Aimmary
Date: July 14, 1933.
Subject: Recrudescence of Reactionary Activities.
Summary:
On the night of July 10-11, 1933, the police
in Tokyo arrested 49 members of the Dai-Nippon
Seisanto, a violent reactionary organization,
who had formed a band called the "Shin-Heitai".
The police evicently believed that this band
intended to create a reign of terror, as extra
guards were immediately posted around th e
principal public buildings and the foreign
embassies and legations. A search of the
headquarters of the band disclosed only three
Japanese swords and some gasoline. It is ru-
mored that the band intended to assassinate
Premier Saito, Home Minister Yamamoto, War
Min ster Araki, and the heads of the two prin-
cipal political parties. The plan to assassi-
nate the politicians is not new, but the plan
to assassinate the War Minister is new. This
is probably due to dissatisfaction among the
more violent element in the Army and Navy with
the braking influence of Araki. The apparent
intention of the band to attract the attention
of the police and their poor organization and
meagre eauipment cause observers to believe
that this was only a notoriety-seeking scheme
on the part of young reactionaries who have
been inflamed by the trial of the reactiona-
ries involved in the affair of May 15, 1932.
Others believe it to be in the nature of a
warning to the courts not to deal too harshly
with those accused of the May 15th affair.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
REOEIVEL
0588 1933
3
LEVISION OP
CLOS DES FIGUES
11. Route des Andelys - Tél 338
Vernon (Cure)
Division of
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
July, 27th 1933.
AUG 23 1933
To
The Private Secretary of
The President
Executive Mansion, Washington D.C.
894.00/481
The enclosed clipping from "Excelsior" of July 26th., concerning
the situation in Japan, may be of interest. The author is an
eminent and influential journakist, Pierre Nille , and the
"Excelsior" is the journal of Mme. veuve Paul Dupuy
a well
known American by birth, whose maiden name was Miss Brown.
respectfully submitted,
1. Shman Barnard
( C.Inman Barnard )
AUG 28 1933
FILED

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.95)
Jahon
Excelsions
O
u va le Japon? » C'est la question
NC
que se pose Mme Andrée Viollis dans
le Japon et son Empire. Et il semble bien
qu'elle réponde : « Soit à la révolution,
soit à la guerre. Peut-être aux deux à
Lette
la fois... » Ét Mme Andrée Viollis est une
excellente enquêteuse qui a une bonne paire
d'yeux dans la tête et sait la manière de
: de
s'en servir.
1e
Ceci pour plusieurs raisons que Mme
bles,
Quelle révolution? Une révolution fas-
Andrée: Viollis démêle clairement. Nulle
ciste, militariste, anticapitaliste, antiparle-
bn:
part la crise économique ne sévit plus ru
dent
mentaire. Quelle guerre ? Evidemment celle
82
:au.
dement qu'au Japon. Nulle part la mi-
que nous avons sous les yeux, presque
26
: je
sère des paysans et des ouvrlers n'est
terminée, victorieuse : la guerre pour la
ieil
aussi cruelle, tandis que certains « clans »
sm
emps
: cê
em/
étre. N'importe laquelle : mais particulière-
annexée. Mais une autre encore peut-
Mandchourie, conquise et pratiquement
30
M
ob-
¿oi-
capitalistes ont réalisé des forturies pri
vées scandaleuses. Dans nul pays la po
pulation n'étouffe dans des limites plus
té.
d
d'l
une
ment la possibilité d'une guerre contre les
34
restreintes. 70 millions d'habitants sur un
Etats-Unis est envisagée par une partie
cus
territoire moins grand que la France, et
pa
Pal
des Japonais au moins sans appréhension.
sle.
dont un quart seulement de la superficle
d'l
kin
en
même avec une sorte de désir et d'espoir.
... Vers octobre ou novembre 1914,
sse
été
est cultivable. Nulle part le mysticisme
nationaliste n'est devenu comme au a-
ém
cel
un soldat de nos armées françaises, mo-
Hori
ine
pon une religion sacrée. Nulle part, meme
Ecri
deste cuisinier dans le civil, se fit tuer
aux 
turgia
:au
dans l'Allemagne d'avant 1914 et dans
D
der la
sem-
sou-
au
qui fut pieusement reproduit par l'Ecole
cette guerre et lui donne volontiers ma
sur notre front. Il laissait à son fils encore
tout enfant une sorte de sublime testament
d'Imprimerie Robert Estienne : « Je fais
itallen
15. R€
17. R
appar
exer
bouche
ur-
al-
ier
is
a
l'Allemagne hitlérienne, l'influence de
chefs de l'armée n'est aussi puissante. E
jusqu'aux socialistes, jusqu'à certains com-
et partisans d'une guerre offensive « qui
munistes même, s'y déclarent militaristes,
l'au
i'al
I
isista.
vie pour que ce soit la dernière! » écri-
tella
15
paierait ».
én
anda :
vait-il en substance.
29.
sis
Le Japon est jeune, avide de gloire et de
oní
C'est pour que « ce fût la dernière ».
Ven
terres, souffrant de sa misère actuelle,
radait
en même temps que pour défendre le
87.1
de son excès de population, de son or-
sol de leur patrie que les Français com-
gueil national et de ses appétits extérieurs.
ar le
battirent avec tant d'héroisme. Et sans
COT
Jusqu'ici, et à plusieurs reprises, l'Europe
d'en-
dou-
doute, d'ailleurs, les Allemands croyaient-
ils aussi que ce serait « la dernière ,
de
tio
COR
avait mis une borne à ces appétits, mais
où est maintenant l'Europe ?... Ainsi Mme
, qui
parce que, victorieux, ils pourraient im-
poser leur volonté à l'univers.
liée
1u6
la chaudière japonaise est bien près d'écla-
Andrée Viollis nous donne à entendre que
iours.
Nous sommes loin de compte. Seul,
es,
ter...
votre
riac
me
PIERRE,MILLE.
:mme.
quinze ans plus tard, le Nord-Ouest de
tré
puis
l'Europe exprime une volonté de paix
J
:nbia
en même temps que sa fidélité aux institu-
sor
en ce
tions libérales et parlementaires. Le reste
1
de l'Europe ?... Et n'est-elle pas curieuse
son
nuit,
cette coincidence qui unit la volonté de
var
ison.
paix à celle de la conservation du libé-
ava
eux
ralisme?
le
con-
Mais le phénomène n'existe pas seule-
Bru
por-
ment en Europe. Si les Etats-Unis res-
rem
vint
tent pacifiques, toutefois ils tentent la for-
Bos
ivais
midable expérience d'un quasi-libéralisme
en 1
d'Etat, Et, assez près d'eux, le Japon
un 
qui s'était converti, il y a soixante ans,
futu
à un régime de constitutionalisme parle-
N
mentaire, d'ailleurs plus apparent que
ple
nche
réel, esquisse — c'est ce que nous montre
que
de
en traits vigoureux Mme Viollis — des
to1
et
aspirations brülantes vers un fascisme an
ticapitaliste, guerrier, offensif.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
August 22, 1933.
Respectfully referred to the
Secretary of State.
LOUIS McH. HOWE
Secretary to the President
Division of
FAR EASTERN FFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 23 1983
RECEIVED
AUG 2 2 1933
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
CLOS DES FIGUES
11, Route des Andelys - Tél 338
Vernon (Cure)
July 27th. 1933.
MENT
France
REOE VED
AUG21833
To
The Private Secretady
ANU
of
THE PRESIDENT
Executive Mansion, Washington D.C.
The enclosed clipping from today's "Le Temps" ,gives the French
view of the "reaction" in the military and naval circles at
F
G
Tokio caused by the success of the avion performance of the
Italian axion general Balbo. Perhaps, this may be interesting, 
and consequently, is herewith,
894.00/482
respectfull. ubmitted,
Basnarcd
1.Jnnian
( C.Inman Barnard )
AUG 281
FILHL

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
JEUDI 27 JUILLET 1988
DE L'ABONNEMENT
N, FRAnÇ Trois mois 3O fr. Bix mois BBfr. Uaaz 1 1Ofr.
réduction de
arifs postaux.
52fr.
- 102fr.
- 200fr.
75fr.
- 147fr.
- 290fr.
ENTS DATENT DES 1" ET 16 DE CHAQUE MOIS
(PARIS et DÉPARTEMENTS) : 40 centIme
BuREaux DU Temps, 5, rue des Italiens,
CE HavAs ct dans ses succursales
toutes les Agences de Publicité
me toute responsahilité quant à leur teneur
STAL Paris, Numéro 60
AU DELA DES RELATIONS ÉCONOMIQUES
nippo-américaines
h.
ry
ir
Le récent exploit de l'aviation italienne fait
li-
énormément refléchir. Au lendemain de Tamé-
le
rissage des vingt-quaire avions du géneral
u-
Balbo à Cariwright, le Temps faisait la remar-
ue
que suivante : « Autre chose est de battre un
es
record dans des conditions tont à fait excep-
tionnelles de durée, de rapidité, obtenues avée
iu
un srul appareil et un seul pilote de grande
ie
clase, et antre chose est d'abontir à une
1n-
pareille perrormance grégaire. Cest tei le
nè
trromphe de la di-cipline et de la méthode. » Et
ts
it ajoutait : « Le personnel avait été minuticu-
n
sement sélectionné, mais il appartient aux
forces de laéronantique royale. Il n'est pas
douteux qu'elle ne possède de nombreux avia-
teurs capables d'un pareil exploit. "
il
En même temps, un de nos confrères remar-
le
quait en particufier que la sécurité que certains
pays croyaient tenir de leur éloignement de
certains autres n'existait plus,
Un troisième point de vue pourrait être, selon
ous, qu'un nouveau moyen de faire la guerre,
et quelle guerre! apparait là dans toute son
ampleur. Ce qui prouve que lorsque l'on a
envie de se battre l'on en trouve toujours lo
moyen en dépit de la limitation des armements.
Et apres le rald de Balbo, quel pays consentira
à limiter ses armements aériens? D'ailleurs,
la fatalite de la guerre n'est pas dans remploi
plus ou moins limité de telle ou telle arme,
mais dans les causes plus profondes gui font
que les peuples se regardent en ennemís.
Il y a encore des personnes qui ne veulent
voir aux guerres qu'une cause économique et
qui, par conséquent, concluent que deux pays
comme les Etats-Unis et le Japon, en cons-
tantes relations d'anaires, ne peuvent jamais
en arriver à se battre. Cette idée, renouvelée de
Proadhon, est depuis longtemps abandonnée
par ceux qui réfléchissent sans étre plus ou
moins guidés dans leurs réflexions par une
tournure d'esprit et des habitudes d'hommes
d'affaires.
Dans la magistrale introduction qu'a écrita
M. Henri Moysset à la Guerre et la paix de
re
Proudhon (Marcel Rivière), on lit : « L'histoire
démontre que la cause économigue es, a plus
relative de toutes, surtout dans la periodé mo-
derne et contemporaine... Ce n'est pas la
somme totalisée des besoins qui a fatalement
jeté l'Allemagne dans la guerre puisque les
movens de los aalistaire paciinueman étaiont
qutnment illimites. Crest ur certain nombre
d'iuees contagleuses et de mythes propagés
par des groupes intéressés qui ont multiplié,
excité, uniflé les désirs de la masse, au point
de l'amener à opter pour le risque de guerre
contre les autres solutions possibles Les
guerres qui ont eu lieu en Europe & raison de
7o ans au seisième sidole, de 70 ans au dix-
septième, de 50 au dix-huitième, en ne comp
tant que la durée de celles où la France a é
engagée, sont désignées par des appellations
diverses, aucune sous le nom de guerre éanniór
migue, pas 
g ou n noando a 

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.92)
Dans la magistrale introduction qu's erla
M. Henri Moysset à la Guerre et la paia de
re
Proudhon (Marcel Rivière), on lit : « L'histoire
démontre que la cause économigua cst n plus
relative de toutes, surtout dens la période mo-
derne-et contemporaine... Ce n'est pas la
u
somme tolalisée des besoins qui a fatalement
jeté l'Allemagne dans la guerre, puisque les
moyens de les satisfaire pacifiquement étaient
quasiment illimités. C'est un certain nombre
d'idees contagieuses et de mythes propagés
par des groupes intéressés qui ont multiplié,
excité, uniflé les désirs de la masse, au poin
de l'amener à opter pour le risque de guerre
contre les autres solutions possibles... Les
guerres qui ont eu lieu en Europe à raison de
75 ans au seizième siècle, de 79 ans au dix-
septième, de 50 au dix-huitième, en ne comp-
tant que la durée de celles où la France a été
engagée, sont désignées par des appellations
diverses, aucune sous le nom de guerre écono-
migue, pas meme celle où la Hollande a été
impliquée de 1568 à 1713, soit 116 ans sur 145.
Que le factcur économique y ait joué un rôle,
cela n'est pas contesté; qu'il ait été déterminant
au point de servir d'argument probant en fa-
veur de la paix proposée par Proudhon, cela se
pa- de rèfulation.
À côté des gons daffaires, il est une autre
catésorie de personnes qur, bie n que fordant
leur opition ur dautres rai on ne ceux-ei,
peuveut arriver ans mème- conelu-ions. Lo
doetcur Gustave Le Bon. dan  Enseigne-
ment psychologiques de la g e  nropéenne
(Flaminarion), les désigne de Ja   on suivante:
« Dirigés uniquement par la logique ration-
nelle dan- leirs investigations, le vants
veulent f je  oir condeire le monde, et
s'indignent dès que les phénomènes semblent
échapper à son influence. Ils oublient ainsi,
poursuit-il, qu'à côté des lumières intellec-
tuelles, guidant l'homme de science à travers
ses recherches et le philo-ophe dans ses doc-
trines, existent des forres offectives mystiques
et collectiv ans parenié avee l'inteligence.
Chorme  p d une logique spéciale.
tãe llérente de la logique rationnelle. Cetto
dernière bat 1: cience, mais ne crée pas Phis-
Si pons pppliquons an Pacifique les fextes
q nots  nons de cilér. nous voyons combien
fragile est lopinion de ceux qui nient la po-
sibilite dun conflit dans ces régions à cause
is
dé Trafie mportant que font ensemble les Etats-
Unts ef le Japon. Ces négaleurs n'en sont pas
poms d'avis que la Mandchourie ne permettra
pas à la population japonaise, pour des raisons
que l'on a si souvent exposées que nous n'y
reviendrons pas,de s'écouler au dehors de l'em-
pire insulaire. Le problème de la surpopula-
tion reste donc intact au Japon, après comme
avant la création du Mandchoukouo. Et si nous
avons pu écrire dans notre précédent article
que des déclarations de certaines personna-
lités américaines, faisant prévoir la reconnais-
ré-
sance par les Etats-Unis du Mandchoukouo,
an-
pouvaient être un apaisement — dont le degré,
as-
du reste, ne saurait étre fixé quant à présent
tie
— pour quiconque étudie le problème du Paci-
fique, par contre nous ne négligeons pas des
ou
informations telles que celles, qui parviennent
r-
nombreuses ces temps-ci, sur le programme
des constructions navales de Washington et
de Tokio.
Au début de juillet, on pouvait lire dans le
New York World Telegram, sous la plume
d'un journaliste très connu aux Etats-Unis :
« Le Japon croit que les Etats-Unis n'ont pas
construit la flotte à laquelle ils avaient droit
par incapacité ou peur, et qu'ils n'intervien-
dront jamais en Extrême-Orient. Le seul
moyen de détromper le Japon, et en mema
temps d'assurer la paix dans le Pacifique, est
que les Etats-Unis augmentent leur flotte jus-
quaux limites fixées par le trailé de Loñdrés, et
ad beson amemt au dela, si les limtations
adoplées à Londres disparaissent.  Dautre
de-
part, un télegramme de Tokio du is juillet an-
nonçait qu'un nouveau programe de oumplé-
ment, conformement aux conutuons nxées par
us
a traite de Lóndres venait deue elaboré at
apon. Burvetem Ta nomenclatare er e nom-
10
pre imposant des unités à construire dans um
nt
aps de temps de trois ou quaré n un an
pu deux de prus qup deorur quo cnel ples
elds
me
lu
rassurant; et si l'on y ajoute le spéctaple des
an-
grandes manceuvres navales amáricaines 
per
japonaises du printemps dernier, et le thème
00
de ces manceuvres, Pon  pbligé de
pur
conclure pour le moins qu'Asharea er Jabo-
lan
nans ont conscienco des pos: 
enre cux Cces themes compramert ums-colla-
borattón néro-navale, de mémer que des pro-.
la
grammes de constuctions prévolent le déve-

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.94)
échapper à son influence. Ils sublient 
poursuit-il, qu'à côté des lumières infefleq-
tuclles, guidant l'homme de soence à wavers
ses recherches et le philosophe dans ses doo
trines, existent des forces aftectiv my liques
et collective-. sans parenté avec l'intelligance
Chorume d'rlics possède une logique speotale
tr différente de la logique ratiomnelle. Cette
dernière bâtit la science, mais ne orée pas l'his-
toire. "
es
Si nous appliquons au Paciflque les textes
que nous venons de citer, nous voyons combien!
fragile est l'opinion de ceux qui nient la pos-
sibilte a un conrlit dans ces régiont a cause
u trafic important que font ensemtle les Etats
Unts ef le Japon. Ces négateurs n'en sont pas
moms d'avis que la Mandchourie ne permettra
pas à la population japonaise, pour des raisons
que l'on a si souvent exposées que nous n'y
reviendrons pas,de s'écouler au dehors de l'em-
pire insulaire. Le probième de la surpopula-
tion reste done intact au Japon, après comme
avant la création du Mandehoukono. Et si nous
avons pu écrire dans notre précédent articlo
que des déclarations de cerfaines personna-
lités américaines, faisant prévoir la reconnais-
ré-
sance par les Etats-I'nis du Mandehoukouo,
an-
pouvaient être un apaisement — dont le degré.
as-
du reste, ne saurait étre tixé quant à présent
tie
- pour quiconque étudie le probtème du Paci-
fique, par conire nous ne négligeons pas des
ou
informadions deile- que celles, qui parviennent
r-
nombren-es ces teips-rt, sur le programme
des con-truction- maales de Washington et
di Tukiu.
An debut de jnilel, on pouvait lire dans le
Nee York World Telegram, sous la plame
dun journaliste très conmi aux Etats-Unis :
« Le Japon croit que les Etats-Unis n'ont pas
construit la tiotte à laquelle ils avaient droit
par incapacité ou peur, et quils n'intervien-
dront jamais en Extrème-Orient. Le. seuk
moyen de détromper le Japon, et en même
temps dassurer La paix dans le Pacifique, est
que les Etals-l'nis augmentent leur flofte jus-
qu aux limites fixée- par de traité de Londres, et
yuu
au nesoto adttent atu dela, si les limitations
la
adoptées à Londres disparaisent. » Daittro
m-
is-
part, un téégramne de Tokio du 45 juillet an-
noncaet qu un nouvean prograrmme de complé-
mment, conformément aux conditions fixées par
us
Lé tráité de Londres, venait d'etre élaboré au
ne
Japon. Suivaient la nomencfature et te nom-
le
ore imposant des unités à construire dans un
nt
laps de temps de trois ou quatre années, un an
ste
ou drux de plus que celui que se sont donne les
Américains pour exécuter la plus grande par=
icial
tie de leur propre programme.
nme
Tout cela, finalement, n'est donc pas très
luí
rassurant; et si l'on y ajoute le spectacle des
an-
oyé
grandes manoruvres navales américaines et
mer
japonaises du printemps dernier, et le thème
de
de ces manœuvres, l'on est bien obligé de
pur
conclure pour le moins qu'Américains et Japo-
édit
nais ont conscience des possibilités dun connit
entre eux. Ces thèmes comprennent une colla-
cle,
boration aéro-navale, de même que les pro-
la
grammes de constructions prévoient le déve-
ais
loppement de l'arme aérienne parallèlement
lus
à celui de l'arme navale.
ut-
Pour ces raisons l'on peut être certain qu'aux
Etats-Unis comme au Japon re raid ltaien a
se-
eu sur les esprits une portée considerable; il
ent
y est apparu comme quelquc chose de plus
or-
nouveau encore qu'en Éurope où les pays se
es
touchent et peuvent s'atteindre de tant de ma-
on
le
nières. Il a démontré aux deux puissances du
Pacifique que Ta sécurite queres crovarent
tenr amtant de Teur eroignement reciproque

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
LTPS.27 juillet 1983
que de leur éloignement de l'Europe n'était
plus qu'une musion; New- orx on & été frappé
probablement prus encore que Tokio, car le
Japan pe se laísse pas surprendre par les évé-
nements, qu'il prévoit de tres loin.
oan pays au monde, st ce n'est peut-etre
'Italie d'aujourd'hui, n'est guidé par un sens
de l'avenir comparable à celui du Japon. On
n'en sauralt dire autant des Etats-Ums, dont la
conflance imperturbable s'arrangeait, jusqu'ici
du moins, des événements et qui ne se déci-
daient à entrer dans une voie politique que
lorsque ceux-ci les y avaient poussés. De même
que la montée japonaise a précipité leurs
constructions navales, ce qui leur a valu à p-
sieurs reprises et cette année encor des
façons el des déboires retentissants,
le raid italien pourrait précipiter l'exécution
de teur programime aerotautiquc. sounaitons
pour eux que ce soit avec plus de bonheur.
Toujours est-il qu'au delà des relal m
nomiques nippo-américaines, qui militent
demrient pour le maintion de la paix. il existe
tout un monde d'idées, de sentiments et de
faits que commande « une logique speciale
très différente de la logique rationnelle », mais
qut justement est celle qui crée l'histoire.
g
ANDRÉ DUBOSCO.
80
dé
ENALLEMAGNE
fo
N
so
POUR L'ÉPURATION DE LA RACE
nd
pE
sa
Les tarés seront stérilisés
vi
Notre correspondant particuller de Berlin téléphone
m
du
mercredi matin
L'Officiel publie une loi contre la propagation
des maladies héréditaires. Elle prévoil la stérili-
sation des personnes. hommes ou femmes, attein-
tes de ces maladies. Il s'agit notamment des idiots,
des épileptiques, des fous, des aveugles et des
sourds-muets, ainsi que des alcooliques chroni-
ques. Seuls, les cas graves sont envisagés.
On procédera à cette stérilisation sur la de-
mande de l'intéressé, de son tuteur, d'une per-
sonne préposée à ses soins, d'un médecin qualifié
ou d'un directeur d'établissement (asile d'allé-
més, eto.). La décision sera prise par un tribunal
composé d'un juriste et de deux médecins, dont
un spécialiste des maladies héréditaires; le méde-
ein entendu comme expert sera tenu de déposer
et dispensé du secret professionnel Un appel d?
ce jugement pourra étre fait devant un tribunal
spécial, dont la sentence sera définitive. Elle
pourra etre imposée à celui qui en est l'objet. Les
frais de l'opération seront supportés par l'assu-
vanee-maladte. Il s'agit de stérilisation et non pas
de castration, opération qui sera réservée à cer-
tains criminels.
On rappelle que des lois analogues existent dans
vingt-quatre Elats américains sur quarante-huit,
u Danemark et dans un canton suisse. On.
constaté, en Allemagne, que les familles saines
n'ont plus qu'une moyenne de deux enfants, alors
que les idiots et simples d'esprit ont généralement
des familles nombreuses. sf l'on ne portalt re-
mède à cette situation, il en résulterail, aprbe
quelques générations, une dégénérescence com-
plète de la race.
D'autre párt, on mande de Berlin:
L'agenee Contl senligne que la nouvelle lotà
une ponée deonénique : un pensionnaire dune
 , 2,0.
putalion. Catse
Llemostanemons heldrtom do Watetetre
merered mate

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.95)
L'agenes Conti souligne que la nouvene nor
ume postée ésonomiqué : un pensionnaire dune
malson de sorrestion cotte 1,Do0 marke par an
st un aliéné, 2,800.
La lot, poursult l'agenoe Conu, ems une des méss
les plus fmportantes qu'alt prises jusqu'lel le e
vernement national-soclaliste. Mlle met n à la pe
litque libérale en matière de repopulation. Cette
polltique, qui consiste à vivre et à lalsser vivre, eet
émoore pratiquée en France et en Italie; slle éneourage
la repopulation mans me préoccuper de la dégénéres-
cence nationale.
Par cotte lol, l'Allemagne témoigne de sa volonté
consciente de perfectionner physiquement la qualité
de la race.
L'ensetgnement hitlérien de Vhistoire
Notre correspondant partlouller de Berlin téléphone
meroredi maún :
M. Frick, ministre de l'intérieur du Reich, a
avoyé de nouvelles instructions uux ministres
Ide l'ínstruotion publique des « pays », pour l'en-
heignement de l'histoire. Dans l'histoire de l'Alle-
magne, on ne devra pas considérer seulement le
Reich actuel, mais les populations allemandes qul
vivent en dehors de ses fronfières. Il faudra nette-
ment faire ressortir que l'histoire européenne est
Fouvre de la race nordique, dont les premtères
invastons en Asie et en Afrique datent de 5,000
ans avant Jésus-Christ. L'histoire grecque sera
envisagée de ce point de vue, les Grecs étant les
frères les plus proches des Germains. Les Grecs
nordiques formaient la classe supérieure et les
luttes de classes n'étaient chez les Grees que des
duttes de races. De même, à Rome. la lutte des pa-
triciens et des plébérens. L'imporfance des gran-
des invasions consiste en ceci qu rlles ont apporté
un nouvel afflux de sang nordioue à l'empire 
main déchiré. Les peuples où cet afflux est fat
sentir furent la Francé, l'Angleterre, l'Espagne et
I'Italie du nord; ils sont ceux dont la culture fit
merveille au moyen Age. Les auties pays, les Bal-
kans, par exemple. ef la Russie, ont végété.
L'enseignement de l'histoire à l'école primaire
commencera par des contes et des ligendes alle-
mands. C'est seulement à partir de la cinquième
année que l'on présentera aux enfants des récits
et tableaux historiques d'une grando simplicité,
L'organisation corporative
Le directeur do l'organisation corporative du
parti national-socialiste communique:
« On s'est abrité derrière l'idée de l'organisation
prporative pour favoriser des intérêts particu-
ers en créant des organisations économiques. Ces
tentatives, qui nuisent à l'économie et par là-nême
au peuple allemand, ont eté interdites par le
Führer qui a déclaré que le moment dexécuter le
programme de l'orgauisation corporative n'était
pas encore venu.
" Pour toutes ces questions, je rappelle que seuls
ont compétents l'office, les chefs de district, les
conseillers technigues d'arrondissement pour l'or-
ganisation corporstive. »
L'exposition de la Sainte-Tunique à Tréves
Le cardinal Schulte, archevèque de Cologne, et
Mgr Bornewasser, évéque suffragant de Trèves,
ont adressé au pape un télégramme lui rendant
compte des cérémonies de l'exposition de la
Sainte-Tunique dans le cathédrale de Trèves, en
présence du vice-chancelier von Papen et d'au-
tres représentants du gouvernement.Le Saint-Père
y est prié de donner sa bénédiction à tous ceux
qui ont participé à cette solennité.
D'autre part, le cardinal-archevéque de Cologne
et l'évéque de Trèves ont adressé au chancelier
Hitler un télégramme l'assurant de leur désir
de collaborer au relèvement du nouveau Reich.
Le statut aéronautigue du Reich
Contrairement à certaines informations britan-
niques, l'agence Wolff affirme que l'Allemagne
n'a commis aucune infraction à l'accord de Paris
qui règle son statut aéronautique et dément que
le chargé d'affaires britannigue at fait une dé-
marche à oe sujet auprès du gouvernement du
Reich.
L'expérience de comtrtéle pelicier
Natre corraspondant partioulier de Bertin téléphone
meraredi matin:
L'eapérlance de contrôle policiar qus a en lieg
magae, dane les trains comme sur lee routes, à

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.96)
àome, la lutte des pa-
 de sang nordique à l'empire ro-
pent coux deni la culture l
Sensslgsement de l'histokre à l'école primaire
per dea contes et des légendes alle-
tabléaux hatorkquee dune srande simplicité,
L'organisation corperetive
Le directeur de l'organisation corparative du
parti national-socialiste communique:
« On s'est abrité derrière l'idée de l'organisation
prporative pour favoriser des intérêts partiou-
ers en créant des organisations économiques. Cos
lentatives, qui nuisent à l'économie et par là-nême
au peuple allemand, ont été interdites par le
Führer qui a déclaré que le moment d'exécuter le
programme de l'organisation corporative n'était
pas encore venu.
" Pour toutes ces questions, je rappelle que seuls
ont compétents l'office, les chefs de district, les
conseillers techniques d'arrondissement pour l'or-
ganisation corporative."
L'exposition de la Sainte-Tunique à Trèves
Le cardinal Schulte, archevèque de Cologne, et
Mgr Bornewasser, éveque suffragant de Trèves,
ont adressé au pape un télégranme lui rendant
compte des cérémonies de l'exposition de la
Sainte-Tunique dans le cathédrale de Trèves, en
présence du vice-chancelier von Papen et d'au-
fin
tres représentants du gouvernement.Le Saint-Père
y est prié de donner sa bénédiction à tous ceux
veg
qui ont participé à cette solennité.
vel
D'autre part, le cardinal-archevéque de Cologne
les
et l'évéque de Trèves ont adressé au chancelier
Hitler un télégramme l'assurant de leur désir
« de collaborer au relèvement du nouveau Reich.»
Le statut aéronautique du Reich
Contrairement à certaines informations britan-
niques, lagence Wolff affirme que l'Allemagne
n'a commis aucune infraction à l'accord de Paris
qui règle son statut aéronautique et dément que
le chargé d'affaires britannique ait fait une dé-
marche à ce sujet auprès du gouvernement du
Reich.
L'expérience de contrôle policier
Notre correspondant particulier de Berlin téléphone
mercredi matin:
L'expérience de contrôle policier qui a eu lieu
hier, entre midi et une neure, dans toute rane
magne, dans les trains comme sur les routes, a
to
donné, assure-t-on, de bons résultats. Toute la
m
police, ainsi que la police auxiliaire et les sec-
ions d'assaut, avait été mobilisée. Partout on
a arrété et fouillé les automobiles, les voyageurs
ont dù montrer leur passeport. On aurait arrêté
ainsi de nombreux criminels recherchés par la
justice et mis la main sur des tracts communis-
tes. On a également appréhendé un grand nom-
bre d'automobilistes qui circulaient sans permis
de condure
A Breslau, la police secrète a arrêté des com-
munistes en train de coller des affiches séditfeuses.
A Berlin, un homme a été condamné à un an et
demi de prison pour avoir essayé de vendre un
numéro de la Role Fahne.
200 personnes arrétées à Stuttgart
Deux cents personnes ont été arrétées à Stutt-
gart parce que suspectes, déclare un communiqué
de la préfecture, de vouloir troubler la grande
féte de gymnastique qui doit avoir lieu dans cette
vNle.
Des documents compromettants, des tracts anti-
gouvernementaux et quelques armes auraient été
samia à cotte occasion.
Remfereement da contréle de la frontière
On mande de Strasbourg:
A 11 heures, mardi matin, une section de trou-
pes de proteotien hitlériennes de Kehl (Bade) a
été rassemblée au Besirksamt. Un peu plus tard,
le sontrôle è la fronttére a élé renforcé par d'au-
Éree séldats des troupes de protestion masé et
Eomtzáa du pans du pbegain de lor a été cardán pan

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 2, 1933.
Tokyo's despatch No. 497 of August 17,
1933, discusses the position of the Jap-
anese Cabinet with respect to the political
parties. It is opportune, interesting
and well written.
You may perhaps feel that it is
somewhat too eguivocal with regard to
the future and somewhat lacking in in-
cisiveness. These possible defects are
inseparable from any honest attempt to
forecast political developments in Japan.
Politics in Japan revolve to a large
extent around the personal relationships
between politicians and without the con-
clusive knowledge of these relationships
it is almost impossible to know what is
actually going on beneath the surface.
I hesitate to express any opinion
with regard to the several prophecies
which the Embassy ventures to make, as
I have not been following politicai
events in Japan sufficiently closely. I
believe, however, that the Embassy is on
sound ground when it expresses the belief
that the present cabinet will continue for
some time to come without any material
ohgng
FEEHD:AEM

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 17, 1933.
No. 497.
Subject:
The Srito Government and the Political
F/ESP
Parties.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I. D.
Divigion of
Fopyin F
SEP I gS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2
SEP 1- 1933
Depertoment of State
DEC
894.00/483
8
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
The Embassy has not, for some time, renort-
ed on the J panese Cabinet and the political situa-
tion. This has partly been due to the lack of any
changes of conseguence in recent months, and partly
because of the impossibility of making sense out of
the constant shiftings and turnings, the hints of
resignations and disruntion, the demands for "strong
government" and the evasive attitude of Japanese
political leaders.
SEP 1 4 1933
Since
FILED

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
B |
-  -
Since the establishment of the present Saito
sonistry following the assassination of Premier
kai commonly referred to as the "May 15th in-
edent", there have been frequent rumors of resig-
ra
es
Etion or chenge. This ministry, composed of
un
urious elements crown from the Seiyukai, the
qu
re
linscito nd priv te life, and hecded by an aged
5
tired ad irel, was set un at that critical time
ji
r fill the need for coalition or national govern-
e
it
unt, bove the knovery of particen nolitics.
.Thus
0
e
it hs helo together, in cnite of obvious fric-
01
卜1
non between its diverse elements, although several
homes its rasirnation h s ben confidently predicted,
tably fte the   ge of the buaget bill in march
Iten m ny believec th t its task hed been finished.
Fortunately, from the stenonoint of Cobinet
ingevity, close ceoper tion mone the Ministers of
ra
cause the ministers re inaividually and airectly
fairs under their ovn jurisdiction.
The Seiyukai, with its overwhelming parlia-
wer and the spoils to which in normal times it
buld be entitled. But public prejudice against
ie abuse of partisan government in critical times
ike the present, has kept the Seiyukai at the heel
 the Cabinet, afraid to force an issue. The
eiyukai has for more than a year lent grudging
support

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
support to the S-ito Ministry, hoping that dis-
satisfaction with this regime would develop and
that it, having lived down its past evil repu-
tation, would be permitted to take over the reins.
But public feelin is still strongly against a
straight party regime. Three months ago the Seiyukai
pleaded that the emergency symbolized by the May 15th
incident was past and that the time had come for a
reversion to parliementary pr: ctices. However, the
wy 15th tricls now roine on under wide publicity, in
which the defenatnts huve eloouently indicted nar-
liamentary rover ment with the sympethy of the public,
bave r culled the unponularity of party government
and mede it plain to the Seiyukai that the time is
unoropitious for n dtemot  o restore on all-Seiyukai
government.
Incidentally the Minseito, with four repre-
senttives in the Cebinet, is inelined to let well
enougr lone, rer lisiny thet : return to party govern-
ment woulc mea the loss of what rcpresent tion it now
has.
It woule cnnear from these facts that in spite
of certain friction, and in spite of jealousy on the
part of the Seiyukai, there is no retson for a change
or reorganization in the Cabinet. However, there are
other factors in the situation which must be considered.
Both Admiral Viscount Saito end his most important
colleague

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
4
colleague, Mr. Takahashi Minister of Finance, are
old men who would gladly return to the retirement
from which they were dragged in the emergency fol-
lowing the May 15th affair.
Mr. T: kahashi was rumored
to be on the noint of resigning during the past spring,
but was dissuaded, pr b bly by the military.
With-
out  r. I kuhashi and his prestige as state financier,
the S:ito Ministry Would be severely weakened. This,
the military would prevent, as they believe the nation
requires a strong and non-nartisan cabinet in these
adventurous times. They are particularly anxious to
teep Mr. T kahashi and the C. binet intact at the nresent
time when the new budget estimates, car ying enormous
demands for new armaments, are being framed.
They realize
that even in the strong patriotic aroor of the nation at
present, a firm h nd will be needed to force the military
demands und the increased taxation down the nation's throat.
In order to lend all porsible sunnort to the Cabinet,
a scheme has been pronose: to draft Dr. Suzuki, President
of the Seiyukai, and Baron T katsuki, President of the
Minseito, into the Cabinet as Ministers without port-
folio. Some observers describe this pronosal as "gland
grafting" on an elderly organism. By this it is hoped
to unite all political power into one all-star aggre-
gation strong enough to carry through any policy.
At the time the present Cabinet was formed, an effort
was made, in the interest of political unity, to include
the presidents of the two great parties in the Cabinet.
Both

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
Both refused to join, but promised a measure of
support on behalf of their parties. A further effort
was made three months ago to induce Dr. Suzuki to re-
place Mr. T-kahashi as inister of Finance. This he
flatly refused to do, thereby forcing r. Takahashi
to carry on to the oresent, as was described above.
Dr. Suzuki w s of course between the horns of a
dilemme.
Some of his follower: rrotestec the submergence
of their party's iuentity further into the present Govern-
ment, aovecating rather a severance of relations. Others
believed in coopere tion , ane in controlling the govern-
ment from within. Both factions were of course con-
siderin: only their party's auvantage. A split in the
party may thretten if Dr. Suzuki cccepts this 1atest
invitation. Thus far he has apnecred to be opnosed to
the idea, but some observers predict his early accep-
tance. According to his own statement he could not
enter the government unlers an " understanding on
political policies" is reached.
This is the phrase now
being actively discussed in the press, which means,
baldly, bargainin for advantage.
Baron Wokatsuki of the Minseito has been reti-
cent about the scheme, but observers do not anticipate
much objection on his part to a proposal which offers
nothing but adventage to his party.
I should add that this scheme has not yet been
formally pronosed, but is undoubtedly under consideration
by Viscount Saito. I believe it will, if proposed, be
accepted by the two party leaders, as they well realize
that public opinion at present will not tolerate any
exhibition

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
exhibition of partisan intransigeance.
Some fear has been expressed in certain quarters
that these moves toward unification of power are tending
toward the creation of a dictatorship. Mr. Takahashi
himself is reported as stating in a press interview:
"Politicians must understand the prevailing situation
in Japan. If affairs continue to move in their present
course, it is to be grectly feared that Japan will be
dominated by a dictator nio. I fear this greatly".
His implication was that unless the political parties
reform their ways and regain the confidence of the
peonle, the latter will turn in disgust to a feudal
dictatorship.
Although omitting this danger, the
Oseka AINICHI stutes : " We :re confident that the
day of oarty government- orthodox parliementary govern-
ment in which the oninion of the majority is clso re-
spected- will come before many years have passed.
order to hesten that day the nolitical parties must
first of all regain their lost prestige by making the
needed reforms."
Mony of the reactionary events of the past two
years in Japan are directly attributable to public
resentment at the corruntion of the politicians and
the loss of confidence in parlicmentary government.
The
genius of the Japanese people seems to be lacking in
the direction of popular government along party lines,
but this of course may be due to the comparative new-
ness of democratic ideas in Japan. However, it may well
develop that recent events and the present hostile
feeling of the people may serve as a warning to the
political

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
- 7 -
political parties that their continued existence
depends on the sacrifice of their selfish interests
to the broader welfare of the nation.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassader:
800.
Eduim L. maill
WTT:r
Edwin L. Neville
Counselor of Embassy.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatch No.497.
Date: August 17, 1933.
Subject:
The S:ito Government and the Political
Parties.
Summary:
The Sito Cabinet has survived for over
a year in spite of fre uent rumors of resig-
nation of ch nge. The Seiyukai, the majority
party, has been hopin: for a return to party
government, and to its own  ccession to power.
However, public feeling is still strangely
critical of o rty covernment, end intolerant
of the :buses of self-seeking politicians.
A project is on foot to include the presi-
aents of the two mojor parties in the C binet
as Ministers without portfolio. This is for
the purpose of stren thening the C:binet
before the new buaget, with its enormous
military exnenoitures and inevitable taxes, is
drawn uo for submission to the Diet.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/
SEE
794.00/57
FOR Deapatch 491.
FROM .... Japan
(Grow
.) DATED Augut.9.1933.
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Newspaper stories published in Japan of new
foreign policies to be adopted by Japan.
hs

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokyo, August 9, 1938.
0.491.
SUBJBCT: Foreign Policy of Japen.
The Ronorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
81ri
During the past yoar and a half, Japanose
newspapers have frequently indulged in caustie
critioisms of Japanese diplomacy. The press has
been inelined, sinue the League of Mations began
to interest iteelf in the Meneharian affair, to
ame the League's aritiaim of Japms actiens
upon a failure of Japemese diplemet, ather tin
upem the basie jndtiee of the leapsels viese.
There ere frequt thesese ia th prese gtt

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.83)
- E-
the so-culled "subservient diplomaoy" of the Foreigm
Offiee and demands for an "independent diplomaey",
or a diplomacy which, ignoring the opinione and de-
sires of the Occident in regard to the Par East, would
be  ntere n the d v l ment of Jopen's aime in thie
o rt   world. he i hes of the propotents or
n"9
tome mrtent
fromm the Le ge of
the
wha
in the Tm
2er1C
tthe withdreal
。2
tinu t gopert
ten
11
the hritish
hupire suo ted tarifis and trade restrictions obvlously
intended to revent the importation of umresaunably
cheap J. panese me: abandise, there were ranewed out
ries Lg inst the so-c:lled "weak-kneed poliey" of
the Japanese Foreign Office. Demands wore made(but
not given serious considsration, as far as is knom)
that business men be appointed as diplomatie agents
in place of career diplomatie officere snd at one time
it was reported that ür. Kojiro Matsukate wonld be ap-
pointed as Anbassader to the Uafted Etatee in place
of Mr. Debucmi. The outery against the Poreim Qfrice's
lack of preparatiom for the attasks on Japem's foreige
treds, ane the realisation withtn the Foreige effiss

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.84)
-8-
that greater attantion should be given te "sco»
nomic diplomecy , horever, resulted in the forma-
tion of a Trade Comsission within the Foreim
Orrico(Desp: tch No. 481, July :e, 1933).
On June , Lega,  t-in Tokye nersper
hed
theset that Mr. Yosuke
tthe
et totheting
rlurforrly
or ry orf the be sue of stions
thJan
o ee r the bes sue r Ne i ns(ell of who bove
1
ttineit
r
or ne J pan can peet to en
counter serious ob:t cles in the urmu noe of its
forelgn policies ss soon *s Western nations have suc-
ceeded in conquerins the economie jepression. It
warued the Cobinet that rotallating msasures, oither
direct or indireet, could be expected within the next
few tomrs, and advised the Govarnment to minimise the
scope of the wilitary operations in Chine in orter
to uvoid adding fuel to the fire.
These various cogurrences further exeited newe-
paper coument on Japants forsim policies amd di-
plomaey. Newspaper reporters(probably working in conjumo-
tiem with junior applagees ot the Pureige ofttee) con-
cented and publsad vérions regeste of nos fosise

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.84)
policies to be adopted by Japan. The nt-ri
and Pro-american" policy has already been reparted to the
Department(Desps toh No. 48l, June 30, 198s). Various
reports have been submitted from time to time m the
"Back to Asia" mov meat, hich  as to ho favored by
the ray.
ono1eip1o
frs of
1icy
utherlt tive rins
id which upp ure to  ve aveloped fron the sugeestion
of Massrs Latsucke, sugimurs and suweda, mentloned above.
This wss o rtport of u proposition to ande vor to effect
6 Sino-Javenese defensive and offensive alliance, some-
what similar to that concluded with "wanchakup" by the
protocol signeu on September 18, 1938. The TOKy0 N1CU-
NIChI, Eaglish Ecition, of Jume , lgat. gives the fol-
Ssving sccount of this derelopmeat in Japanta fereige
poxsoys
ito Gt

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.94)
重atioms.
The opponents of Japem's Intesagtdomel
cooperation insist that, as Iong as Japem and
Chima are not bound together in callabaratied,
it is impossible to expect a permanont selm
tion of the Far Eastern questions. They urgs
therefore that instead of imternational co-
operution, Japan should endeavor to obtaim e
unifestation of the true mind of the Chimese
leaders on the project und establism e Sine-
J panese eeon mic nd political bloe. may
declare that the formation of this bloe should
be m de the basis of the new Japonese foreigm
policy after withdrewel from the Leagme.
The policy which regards the Sino-Japa-
nese c. peration .: the sost vital preregui-
site to the crpetuation of peaoe in the Far
Last is foundeu on the following considera-
tions1
i. Although the Je panese Government is
not lorth to revert to the polioy of ecoperation
in the Far Last -ith the United States, Great
Britein and the other inter sted Powers, yet,
" for he the sicurity of cnchukuo is con-
cerned, Japan beli: ves it indispensable for
China to paas a curr ct jucgmeat und realise
it impos ible to solve the Far Basterm cues-
tion unless she relles on Eino. punese co-
operation.
f. In case Chinese leaders come to realize
this necessity, Japem is willing to extend me
terial and moral support to the cemtral foroes
or regional forees indiseriminately. Japam is
furthermore prepered to conclude a protocal be-
tweem Chins and &pam similar to the one by
whiok Japan is mow Dound to Manchukso in a
defensive ullience.
3. The Japanese view has st leaat no anti-
foreign alament, but, regardless of whether is
be a forcs within China or outaide of Chima, juat
as soon as it sttempte to defeat cr obetamst
Japan's sincero vims by politigal end peomomie
seans or through ourrents of thought, Japan is
resdy to take recourse to drestie meesures
against such oppesitiós.
It is wnderstuod that ovestares have sireedy beam

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.93)
Impetus to the upheaval of the Sino Japa-
nese allience movement, it is obserted.*
The YOMIURI SUIMUN of June £7, 198S, gives
the same general ideu but in different form!
 Since Japan's withdrawal from the Leagme
of Nations, the Japenose Government hss deme
its best to  aintcin friandly relations ith
other Powers, both ambers and non-membere
of the League, es is tostified by the recent
signing of an arbitration tresty between the
Netherlands nd Jepan as w 1l a by Jepan'
willingness t c nclude similar tresties with
other countries. Mn cover, J pan has sent
delegation  the horld Le uomie Conference
Ith a view to coperating with other Powers
for the promotion f ce and h priness among
llnkind.
"ns, nonuver, r t Britain has inaugurated
 movement to ust J pa:ese goods from all
British over-sses cosinions, nd . s the United
States h s 1 unched n val construotion lan
on & lurge sc: le, ne   J pan cennot expeet
ich Fron the Disemn ment Conference or the
"orld bconomic Confur nce, the Foreim Office
hes re:lized the sisdon of shifting the nuclous
of Japan's foreim pullcies from urope and
Americs to the Far cast. In official circles in
Tokyo, the argument is vinced that, while
European Powers and the United States ure oe-
cupied in eccnomic and financial rehebilitation
work, J pen should advise China and Manchukue
to orgauize a sort of league umongst themselves
for political, eccmomic and military purposes,
thaz gusmanteeing the safety of Asiatie peoples
against possible aggresslcn of the white reee in
the Fer East. This argument is rapidly gaining
strength. In international conferences at pre-
sent and is the futurs, Japse will mly partici-
pate out of courtoay.
 Taking sdvantage of the trues agreesemt batween
Jepanage and Chimeme troops in Zerth China the
Japanese Governaemt probably will coneentrate ita
ancrer upem the establishmeat of a fall under-
dipl

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.90)
Pelping. It is atieipated that for
will be ordered ome soon to comfer witm the
Tokyo Covernment mm the subjeeth"
The attantion of the Department is invited to
the fact that the phrase in the Iomiuri's mocoumt to
the effeet that "while uropean Powers and the tinited
States re occuplud in aconoule and finncial re-
habilltstion work, Jupan ahoule edvise China.
is stertliply remi isc nt of the ciroumstxnces sur
r unding the presentation of the notorious "Twenty-one
non. ds.
This reported devele rent in  pan's foreign
policy trr cted little caitortal comrent in Jepe
se newspapers, but such comment es wae publisbed was
Savorable to the seheme. The touIunI on Jume Pomm
comnted editorially:
" The authorities of the Fereigs efriee are
of dapmats foreign polioy. Tme step is rishs.
To be cuscesaful, poliay must be n conformity
thairattention

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.89)
Grine is the requisite fer the e
to mhic the Astaties are nor subjeeted at
the hands of the peoples of Wostemm coum
trios.*
The KOKUNI, in commenting cm the Panmásta
projeet in an editorial on June ath, mas rat
more bitter toward the white races:
"That the whites : re exploiting the
Aglatios sdmits of no doubt. They are
forcing Oriontals to take their goods at
exorbitant prices und are wallowing in
ple sure vith tho voney thus sottm. But
the Occidentsls are not stisfied with
exploitati n of th ir colored brothrem.
They have an eye on Asia. They are deter-
mined on mnking the Uriental countries
their colonies end the Asiaties their
slaves."
Little ls bee.. heard of the projoct of forming
 SinoJspanese alli ncs since its reported incep-
tion, and on August 1, iJ33, the KokWIN(waich 1s
belloved to have some connectiom with the ilitery)
attacked the Foreigm Office and Count Dehide for
their "inanity." It pointed out that wmity with
"Manohukne" will not aleme solve the difriculties
arising fros Jepan's separation from the Leagme; that
an ecomomic war threatane, that Count Genidafs dreem
of elose rolations betweon Jupang China and aameim
kuo" is not pocaibée at presest bedause of Chidet
sie t  se f trte ller
,Co
,  

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.91)
goliey dasigmes to put an and to the damgae
sing the League.
* It is an irony of fate that the militaxy
knows how to tide the coumntry over the arisls
better than the authorities of the Forei
Office. The officiels may talk of imereasing
trade relations with foreign countries, but
trade will not follow talk. Pious expreasions
will ot facilltate trede ralations. Wegetia-
tions in regard to the Londen und simla trade
confercnces are not muking progress, despite
th: efforts of the Foreigm Office. This shows
how futile is all t:lk about the need of in-
cressing trade. Some say that Count Uohida is
watching developwents nd that he knows whem
to act. This is e poor excuse for his inanity.
Meny of the reports, such as th: abote, waich
have p peared r r ing Pocein Orrice policies are
no doubt founded more on funcy than faot, but they
sorve to indicate the uncertainty of opinion und the
Seneral anxiety in Japem r garding Japanese relatiens
with other natlons of the world. It can be said wit
reascasble certainty that Japan has at the moment omty
ane fized foreigm poliey and that is to retaia con
trol of ankazía at all coste, witn the hope that the
pesasesion of Eameburia will oemmally lesd to the
kegneny of ia. Otherette Japahese orten petey
or y b    

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.85)
-10-
Japen nd eskes." The impressi is i
thas te Japenese sation, as tell as ite afctaiai
are very ill at ease in their present intesmatiomsl
position and are feeling around for some safe course
to fellow in their pressnt altered sireumstamees.
Respectfally yours,
710.
Joseph C. Grow.
BRDIF
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Berne.
plre ungi
2

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/ 48
SEE
894.00 P. R./88
FOR
Despatch  490.
FROM
Japan
Grow
) DATED August 9, 1933.
TO
NAME
5
REAF
teht-1lthei
of Tokyo raided a "praver meetinx" near the
Meiji Shrine and arreated 49 members of the
Dai Nibon Seizento, a violent reactionary
organization.
hs

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.92)
一一
without the support of the Japanese pablis.
(a)
Anather Arzaazine tion Plet Umcgrerad k
Takyo Palice.
On the night of July 10-11, 1933 the poliee
of Tokyo raided a "prayer meeting" near the Meiji Shrime
and arrested 49 members of the Dai Nihon Seimmto, a
violent reactionery org nization. During the following
week they arrested a total of l08 persons who, they
announced, had plan ed to gother soo0 young mem at the
Meiji Shrine and mecute a bloody coup to restore the
"Imperial Way" of old Japan. It was stated that those
schemers hud perfected their olans to asaassinate all
the statesme nd fin ncial leaders which the Blood
Brotherhood" had intended to kill lest yeer, and also
Genaral Araki. The plan to assassinate the War Minister
came as a murprise to the public and is believed to have
been due probably to dissatisfaction among the mare
violent members of the arxy and navy with his willing
ness to compromise on the amounts to be apprepristed
in next year's budget for armamemts.
The palice appear to be eoavineed that they
prevented serions trouble but mny peeple believe thet
the most the "plottere" degired was to wan the oourts
not to deal too harakly with thnse sscasse of sthe tng
hr 

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 2, 1933.
Peiping's despatch No. 2265, dated
August 28, transmits a memorandum of a con-
versation between the Minieter and the
Military Attache who had just returned from
a visit to the Kailan Mine. Colonel Drys-
dale had been informed by certain foreigners,
apparently mainly British, who had expressed
the belief that the Japanese Army would make
another invasion of North China, occupying
Peiping and Tientsin before the end of the
year, with a view to forcing the recognition
of "Manchukuo" by China. The Minister does
not believe that the Japanese have such in-
tentions.
 UNDER SECHI
00TA 192
FE:EHD:ABW

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.92)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2265
Peiping, August 28, 1935.
3
Subject: Future Plans of Japan.
894.00
793.94
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ExD
OCT 2- 1933
Departnent of State
COPIES SENT TO
G
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
894.00/486
For Diseribeion.Cec
(Grade
0
020
For
ONI
M-ID
20
AY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to transmit herewith a memoran-
dum of a conversation I had on August 23, 1933, with
1933
0CT 5
tion, regarding the future plans of the Japanese.
He informed me that officials of the Kailan Min-
ing Administration, with whom he had talked recently
at Chinwangtao, seemed to believe that the Japanese
military would probably start a fresh invasion of
North China before the end of the year, for the purpose
of oocupying the Peiping-Tientsin area and thus foro-
ing the Chinese Government to recognize "Manchukuo".
While

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
While Colonel Drysdale and I agree that from a
military point of view there is nothing to prevent
such a move, I personally doubt whether the Japanese
Government has any such intention. If it had been
contemplated to obtain China's immediate recognition
of "Manchukuo" by military means, the Japanese would
doubtless have taken advantage of the opportunity
which presented itself three months ago, when they
were within a few miles of Peiping.
Respectfully yours,
Neem ruslef uen
Nelson Truslet Johnson.
Enclosure:
Report of conversation
with Colonel Drysdale,
August 23, 1933.
800
CVHE/GL

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.87)
Peapina, sugust ss.1
Celmel W. S, Prxedele. Militerx Attes
Colonel Dryadale called this aftermoen and
stated that no hid just roturned from a visit to
Uhinangtao where he had had conversatione with ahe
looal and foreign managere of the Kailan Miming A-
ministration. He reported then as believins that
the Japanese military, uader preseure fren suberdl-
nate loaders of the Kwantung amy, among whom he
named Gonoral Hatori whose brigade is stationed et
hanhaikwan, would meke ano ther invasiom mouth of
the Wall, this time to cooupy Peiping and Tientain.
Se asd that M. Ghilten nd M. Lawe, who hae 
Living in Chinmngtae ne whe maistained clése male
tlons with the Japepese and dainese in that aree

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.93)
Colemel Dryseale statel that Soth L
ware opem adyeestes of Chinese rocegaitin
as this somed to be the only hope of bringine pe
that aree and the establishmant of conditionm umr
which the Mining Administration might carry on its phs
ations without interruption. He thought that parheps
this hope of Lowe and Chilton might have been father to
their belier that the Japanese planned as above.
We both agreed that if indeed the Japanese her-
bored any sueh intention, there was no doubt in our
minds that they would find little or no opposition in
this area to such advanoe; and the occupation of Pei-
ping and Tientsin by mechani ze d units from Kupeikow
and Shanhaikwan would be comparatively sasy, as such
Chinese foroes in that area as now existed were en-
tirely subservient to the Japansse peint of piew.
I peixted out to the military attaché my doabs

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
033.9411 Shiratori,Toshio/5
Despatch #515
SEE
FOR
Japen
Grew
September 12,1933.
FROM
) DATED
894.00
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese Cabinet.
0/487
Runors of intentions of feneral Araki and his followers
to force a Cabinet change, as well as form of government
and party system.
力
9
一

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.78)
Rumere ia conmeoticn with m
visit to America.
Strictly Ceafidmtisls
The Monorable
The Secretary of State,
Warhington.
sire
Kr. Teshio Shiraterl, mesly spposates Japenese
Minister to Dden and fased as Japamt ágere
brogtles, io to urrive in Vasvaver en Septe
Et  saute to bis post. Accoraineto the

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.73)
一2
qu,assnio he prs, re 
Imsigration det, natal ex amaion, the resists
She Wnmingtom and London Tresties, an Amer S
Iapanese arbitration truaty, and M nehakuet.
The Foretgn Ofrice lnforrsd e mamber or
atorr stet r. Shiratori will main in merice
thndheyinto
 s  hil   io th
Ulited ststes. ur. hir turi himtair told wasther 
sember of y st ff tat he propesed to do some might
sceingn the Urited wt tes,  thing whick he had
nover h e  urtunity  do.
ploesie urrlcer   de putortser to dirous
aacters  first I portunce with imeriom leaders
Rovevef, in view of Yr, Shiratorifs regint capeert
and his alase coosectin v'th the Jxpanese silitery.
poms sizglficacee ruy be ottached to hin visit 
dearien. 1. zsmbas of y stusf was intermsd by a lotal
mmrlen dwpaper sorr ondent that  hd i
en at. ahiratest to laquire the reesen tar this stañe
LAmertca. Mr. Eissterl won evaive, at sseted
easuelly that be apesto taportat eherges t
plee  Japen darin e ey t r
41

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.86)
predletiom made t Omasal araki a few daye age
of rumors of a cabimet ahange which hove persieted
im resemt weeks. It see s cartain thst Ganeral Araki
and his willtary followers re not satisried with the
present governement, nd :re cont plating a ch mge of
sume kind. On the etr in tant Sener l Ar: k1 bad a
Long onfevnce with the Pin nce Minister, y. Taka-
hashi, st which be is reported to have mode pro-
cssls shien would treneform Japsn uch as the Nazi
have transfor ed Gererny. Bo would cbolish the poli-
tieel pertles nd foru sinele nattonel party ro-
Jeat foreign ideas nd thought: recomstruct vari us
phasos of the sucs ! and cconomlc  tructare, and ex-
pund the militory power of the country. Won far ull
these proposals woule so it is ixpocaible to predist
at prosomt.
I mtion, with some heitation, a mer mhi
have heand frem time to time and mish is mat mmp
timle at comsirzatim. min zumor is tht he prens
Laperer m retire in fever ot e brother, Petme 

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.78)
astebltamel in lame, is hardly less mutamle them
ustin p
Sbould the Empress, now six onths maesiute  be
celivered of e male child, this rumored change coula
nurdy sterlllse. 1f rirth fo le child wer bor
pmerrecains s su. Ininly
the birth io x vsatad ith' the thrss onth parlod
r. irtori  Seneral.reki.
This mu  ir ro orte for whst it ls worth.
It  besnt  onde, yot underront
sireusstsneer in Jen sh ale be hel to do
eTre v i  n
kn
as tht the yhetn thet ment.
In . recent des tel a the political situation
In Je pan" the mmbasty diaoussed a movement then am foot
to laclude the prosidents or the twe grest politlcal
parties in the Cabinst as sinisters witbout portfoliss
It scoms fairly sbvlous thnt the siviliam govermmens
ter reallxed the mend of uniricatin of all civilimn
forees if it is to resist the presoure is the direatim
of i xilitary éretatarahip. me propessl to draft the
purty Leadere tato the Cabiass ay well be iaterprated
aave to the e e t the 
1th

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.83)
de realy fou   l be d
a diataterabdp. I fear this grestly".
Rospectfully yours,
Joseph C. erew.
0.
ETTIF
In cuintu lioute t. the
ent
Copy to Logation, Peining.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
REP
This telegram must be
FROM
closely paraphrased before
TOKYO
being communicated to any-
one. (B-1)
Dated October 11, 1933
RECEIVED
Rec:d 4:32 a.
F
1/1
Secretary of State,
00T 11 1933
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
Washington.
OCT 11 1938
894.00
riment of State
894.00/488
156, October 11, noon.
CONFIDENTIAL. Reports of serips disagreement in the
894-002
Cabinet continue. On what appears to be reliable authority
the new Minister for Foreicn Affairs has aligned himself with
the Finance Minister in opposition to the demands of the army
and navy for increased appropriations. Hirota is reported to
be using his influence with the reactionary and superpatriotic
societies to undermine the position of the Chauvinistic
military elements. As Hirota is friendly with this croup,
due to his early associations, they are stated to be willing
0
to listen to him and to accept his views as to what is goodi
FILED
for the nation in its relations with other powers.
This turn of affairs is said to be causing much anxioty
to the militant faction in the army which is pushing the
Minister of War to insist on his demands for excessive
military appropriations. This group cares little for foreign
opinion and is ready to go to almost any lengths in what they
consider to be the country's needs.
The view

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
REP
2-#156, From Tokyo, Oot. 11, noon.
The view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that
the nation needs peace and friendly relations with foreign
nations, that the country is in no danger at the moment, and
that greatly increased military expenditures at this time
will earn an ill-will abroad which will cost Japan more than
the increased margin of safety is worth. If Hirota and
Talahashi can carry their point, many qualified observers
are of the opinion that there will be danger of a coup d'etat
or an attempt at one on the part of the dissatisfied military
elements who see their power waning. In such an event much
would depend on the attitude of the Ministry of the Interior
which controls the police.
The diot is duo to meet in December and the budgot must
bo ready by that time. Thoreis a measure of opinion that
Viscount Saito may find himself unablo to meot tho Diet with
his presont Cabinet and that he will either resign or give
a deoision which will discomfit one or the other of the groups
in the Cabinet.
GREW
JS
HPD
2

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE033.9411/287
FOR .MOMQ
894.00/ 489
FROM ...State Department
(..Hornback...) DATED Sept.16,1933
Division of Far
NAME
1—1127
Eastern Affairs
REGARDING:
489
Current developments in Japanese Politics.
Attitude of Count Soyeshima toward -.
med

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.96)
A
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1-1336
FROM
OCT 21 1988
MET
Toki
This telegram must be
closcly paraphrasod be-
Datoayoctober 23, 1933
onL.
foro boing communicated
to anyone. (b)
Rec a 5 a. m.
M.1.D.
FE
S
Socretary of State,
(REK)
Washington.
894.00/490
164, 0ctober 23, 2 p. m.
894.00/488
My 156, October 11, noon.
Latest indications are that the Army and Navy will
secure most of their monetary demands in the next budget,
but that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will obtain
general acceptance of his contention that the country
is in no danger of attackat this time; and that the
increased expenditure for the Army and Navy, especielly
the former, will be based largely on their technical and
reasonable need of much new equipment because of the gen-
eral advance in military and naval armament in recent
years of which Japan must keep abreast.
Outwardly this does not look like a victory for the
C
moderate elements; as a matter,of fact it is a recognis
FTLED
tion of the position of the Minister for Foreign'Affatts
3
to an extent which seemed unlikely a few months ago. ton-
sequently we may expect less bluster and truculence on
the part of the military in matters affecting foreign
affairs; they will have most of the money they want, but
will

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MET
1-1336
2-k6m from Tokio, Oct. 23, 2 p.m.
will admit that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should
not be embarrassed in the conduct of his office by pro-
vocative measures and statements which tend to nullify
his efforts towards improving Japan's international rela-
tions.
In view of the foregoing situation, which amounts to
a comromise between the discordant elements in the Cabi-
net, the outlook for a continuance of the present govern-
198
met appears more favorable than when my 15d was sent.
GREW
WSB-RR

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.90)
1933
1 telom (.164) dated eer , 
Ameriom Ambassador at Tokyo, reade uabstaatially 
100:
It now appears that most of the
the Japanese Army and Navy will be granted in the mest
budget but that there pill be a gmeral asseptamse t the
contention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Mixota) to
the effect that Japan is not menaced at this time by attack
The inereased military and naval expenditures will be jasti-
fied on the ground that they are required fer new equipment
in order to keep Japan abreast of the genexal advenee in
recent years in military and naval armament, This is mmah
more of a recognition of the Foreign Minister's positiom
then seemed possible a short time ago. The military, havimg
obtained most of the monay they wanted, may be expested to
assums an attitude less truculent and less caloulated to
nullify efforts of the Foreign Minister toward impreving the
international relations of Japan. In view of the above mem-
tioned compromise between discordant factions in the CGabimet,
there appears to be a mere favorable outleek for a contimm-
anee of the present Gabinet than was the ease some twe weeks
000.
£9.0.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
711.61/293
Tel.#166, 1pm
894.00/
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Oct. 24, 1933
FROM
) DATED
xxx
NAME
1-1127
491
REGARDING:
the possible effect of the initiati of negotiations
between the United States and Russia on the Jape  ee Army and Navy
budget.
干
dew

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
EE
REP
A-M
This telegram ust be
closely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
fore being comnunicated
to anyone. (B-1)
Dated October 24, 1933
Rec1d 9:30 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
166, October 24, 1 p. m.
894.00
/490
11.6//290
CONFIDENTIAL. Hy 163, October 23, noon; and 164,
October 23, 2 p. m.
to
In casual conversation with Noville today Kurusu,
Chief of the Comnercicl Bureau f t e Foreign Office, said
2
that the Japanese felt that the initiation of negotiations
874.00
lo
between the United States and Soviet Russia was a natural
step and to be expected. One point, however, was occasion-
ing the Foreign Office some anxiety. Hirota had been
successful to a considerable extent in divorcing foreign
relations from the discussions of the Army and Navy budget.
If American recognition of the Soviets were to lead to a
belief on the part of the Russians that the United States
would support them in their discussions with the Japanese
or if the Chinese were to believe that the United States
would support Russia in the Far East, the Forein Office
felt that it might have its work with the Military to do
all over again. Thus far the press and public hed
remained quiet but there were elements in the country which
would

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
2-/166, From Tokyo, Oct. 24, 1 p. m.
would take advantage of any situation to stir up trouble.
A false interpretation might be placed on the reference
in the penultimate paragraph of Kalinin's lettor to the
"element of disquiet complicating the process of consolidat-
ing world peace and encouraging forces tending to disturb
that peace" which tho Chinese and Russians might apply to
the Far Eastern situation. Kurusu said that the point of
view of the Military is that Japan faces a hostile vorld
with possibilitios of a cor ination of the United States,
Great Britain, Russia and Chine against Japan, and that
the Foreign Hinister had had creat trouble in convincing
them that there was no likelihood of any such combination.
If political discussions should enter publicly into the
negotiations between the United States Soviet Russia
affording grounds or suspicious for the foregoing belief,
there might be outbursts which would lead the ilitary to
renewed activity nullifying the progress made by Hirota
in the recent Cabinet discussions.
I roport the foregoing merely as a first hand
indication of the thoughts of the Foreign Offico on this
goneral subject.
GREW
RR-WSB

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 23, 1933.
attached to Tokyo Embassy's despatoh No. 565
of October 31, 1933, reporting on the series
of political assassinations and subsequent
trials.
THE UNDER SECRETARY
NOV 271033
DEARINOFSIATE
EHD: REK

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 31, 1933.
No. 565.
SUBJECT: . Transmitting Report on the Reactionary Trials.
.894.20
F1
E
FAR EASTERN AFF'IRS
10V 20 335
N0V 21 1933
2
二
894.00/492
For D'bution-Che
For
ln USA
ON'1
{②
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
O.N.I. AND M. I. D.
Sir:
1/.
FILD
entitled "The Trials of the Reactionaries Involved in the
2
1933
Incidents of 1932" which has been prepared in this Embassy.
The trials have not yet been completed but there are trans-
mitted those sections having to do with the uncompleted
trials of the "Blood Brotherhood", who planned the assassi-
nations of former Finance Minister Inouye and Baron Dan, and
with the courtmartial of the military cadets who helped in
carrying out the terroristic acts of May 15 when Premier
Inukai

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Inukai was assassinated. It is believed that the court-
martial of the naval cadets who planned the May 15th Inci-
dent will be completed in time to permit the forwarding of
another section by the next pouch.
As will be seen from reading the report, the several
incidents were the outcome of conditions which have existed
for many years.
. The dissatisfaction with the political
parties, which was one of the prime causes, is of long
standing. Large elements of the population have looked
askance, not only at the corruption in high places to which
considerable publicity has been given from time to time, but
also at the petty squabbles which have created the impression
that the party leaders were interested in little more than
their own advancement. Not only the army and navy but also
the civilians, especially those in the agricultural districts,
consider that they have suffered from these conditions. Re-
actionary societies have long preached the necessity of a
radical reform and during the last two or three years groups
have been planning to take "direct action" to "reform the
country".
The army is recruited mostly from the country districts
and the rank and file have long heard the expressions of dis-
satisfaction mentioned above. In addition to that, after
entering the service they are subjected to a system of train-
ing which aims to instill in them an ardent patriotism. The
traditions of feudal days are taught
them thoroughly and,
as that age is comparatively recent in Japan, these teachings
possibly mean more to them than they would to soldiers of
some other countries. It is difficult to say how different
the

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
the fundamental traits of the Japanese are from those of
other peoples and how much these traits have influenced
their action in this case. However, the fact is that along
with the rigid discipline there exists a kind of patriotism
which in the present case prompted army cadets to commit
crimes which in any other country would be considered with-
out question the most serious which a soldier could commit.
It is significant that the incident of May 15, 1932
was planned by naval officers. This indicates very serious
conditions of discipline in that body. The immediate cause
of thc affair was undoubtedly dissatisfaction over the London
Naval Treaty. It will be remembered that at the time of the
ratification of the treaty the question of the "Supreme Com-
mand" caused a serious rift among Japanese naval officers.
This difference of view appears to have been reflected among
the rank and file of the navy. It led the roup involved
to take "direct
in the incident under discussion to decide
action" before the next naval conference in order to remove
all who might cause it to be a duplication of the London
Conference as far as Japan is concerned.
After the several assassinations and other terroristic
acts were committed, a press ban was placed upon the publi-
cation of any information concerning them. This held force
during the investigations. After more than a year had elapsed
it was announced that public trials would be held and, as
will be seen from the enclosed report, they have been stretch-
ed out during many months and are still continuing. They
were started at the beginning of the summer months when there
is usually little news for the papers to publish and they
received

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
received the most sensational publicity possible.
It was obvious that the trials could have taken place
with less fanfare and that the government intentionally
stage-managed them. Much speculation has taken place re-
garding the motives of the government for indulging in this
procedure. The opinion among the most experienced observers
is that one im ortant intention of the government was to
discredit those who take part in such affairs. It was hoped
that by letting the defendants speak their minds they could
be made to look ridiculous. The government wanted to give
them enough rope to heng not only themselves but also, figu-
ratively speaking, the entire reactionary movement.
To what
extent this effect was produced it is very difficult to say.
Certainly the government's success was not complete. The
nation in general appears to have sympathized with the cul-
prits. Instead of being considered ridiculous they are
looked upon as idealistic and patriotic, but impractical and
lacking in political sense. They undoubtedly did convince
the public of their ignorance of affairs and of their being
simple-minded in a sense, but beyond this the government's
plan, if the above was its plan, was something of a failure.
If the government's prime purpose in giving such publi-
city to the trials was not accomplished, there were produced
other effects, possibly of a far-reaching nature and satis-
fying to the accused. The first was the complete discredit-
ing of the political parties. During the first half of this
year the machinations of the Seiyukai and Minseito, especial-
ly the former, were attracting the attention of the press
and the public. The Seiyukai was credited with the desire
to

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
to weaken the Saito Government and bring about an early re-
turn to party government. It is true that the public was
not impressed with these moves and the Seiyukai did not on-
hance its prestige. However it worried the government and
the military. Whether it was intended or not, when the
public heard the speeches of the reactionaries during the
trials and their denunciations of the politicians, all
hope of an early return to party government vanished. Some
people say that the development of parliamentary government
in Japan was retarded a decade, but this is a statement
hard to prove regarding a complicated society influenced by
so many factors.
It should be remembered that parliamentary institutions
are a relatively recent innovation in Japan; that the pub-
lic has never been accustomed to have public business settled
by discussion; and that consequently opinions such as those
held by the defendants in the trials have undoubtedly been
held by large numbers of Japanese people for a long time.
Furthermore, their views concerning "politicians" may be
shared by thousands, or even millions, in other countries.
However, it seldom happens that such views are given the
publicity accorded them in Japan in the summer of 1933.
Cases of corruption in higher circles have received considera-
ble attention in the press of Japan in recent years, as
they would in any country, and it is only human that many
should reason that much corruption must exist which is never
given the light of publicity. Such opinions are often heard
but seldom shouted from a public tribunal. The effects of
the latter process are now shown in Japan. The public has
only too readily sympathized with such sentiments expressed

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
by men who were willing to sacrifice their lives for their
convictions. The result is that political parties have
suffered a setback from which it will be very difficult for
them to recover.
The discrediting of the parties had the momentary ef-
fect of strengthening the Saito Cabinet. What the more far-
reaching effects will be is difficult to tell. Whereas, six
months ago the talk in political circles was of the return
of party government, now there is a revival of discussions
of fascisms and dictatorships. At the moment of writing the
political parties are discussing a merger among themselves
to combat the influence of the military.
A second most important result of the trials has been
to make the London Naval Treaty more unpopular. If this was
the purpose of the naval officers who planned the Incident
of May 15th they have been successful to a great extent. As
the naval courtmartial has not been completed at the time
of writing this despatch and the section of the Report on
the Trials covering the navy has not been transmitted to the
Department, more complete discussion of this point will be
forwarded later. However, the publicity given to the views
of the defendants in the naval courtmartial has undoubtedly
acquainted the public with the arguments against naval limi-
tation in a manner not otherwise possible.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Report on Reactionary Trials.
800.
SWW:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
THE TRIALS OF THE REACTIONARIES
INVOLVED IN THE INCIDENTS OF 1932.
Introduction.
Tokyo has recently been the scene of a series of pub-
lic trials which are of signal importance to students of
Japanese psychology and morals. Nominally, the subjects
of the trials are the murderers of former Finance Minister
Inouye and Baron Takuma Dan and those who committed the
series of terroristic acts on May 15, 1932 which included
the assassination of Premier Inukai. Actually, the Japanese
body politic is passing through a serious crisis and these
trials in a sense enable contemporary historians to study
the fundamental conflicts and trends to better advantage
than they are generally privileged to do.
One outstanding feature of the trials is the conflict
revealed between the letter of the law and a certain kind
of patriotism which is talked of a great deal in Japan.
The accused - civilians, soldiers, and sailors - committed
the most serious offenses known to the nation's laws and
the military and naval codes. Yet they insist that they
were impelled by a type of patriotism and loyalty to the
Throne which the Japanese consider distinctively their own
and one of their prize possessions. If similar acts had
been committed in earlier days the perpetrators, according
to the usual interpretation of Japanese history, would have
felt impelled to take their own lives. However, western
ideas have been absorbed to such an extent that the plot-
ters have refrained from committing the usual "harakiri".
On the other hand nearly all of the defendants have blamed
the

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the conditions which they hoped to remedy largely on the
penetration of foreign ideas into Japan.
The defendants undoubtedly enjoy the sympathy of the
mass of Japanese people, especially the rank and file of
the army and navy. Although no evidence has been produced
to indicate that high officers of the armed services were
implicated in any of the assassination plots, yet there is
no doubt that most of them share the beliefs and ideals of
the accused. During the trials they have been torn between
their sense of military discipline and the patriotic ideals
which they have learnt as a part of their military educa-
A valuable contribution toward an understanding of
this spirit which animates the Japanese army is provided
in a recently published book written by the War Minister,
General Araki. According to a condensed translation appear-
ing the JAPAN ADVERTISER, the author, in discussing the
training of the Japanese soldier, makes the following state-
ment:
"...military education in other countries attaches
primary importance to training in the art of
fighting and in order to reinforce it they add to
it spiritual training based on the psychology of
warfare. Their education may be summed up as an
intensive disciplinary training to fit men for
fighting. Military education in Japan, however,
.....places more stress on the moral side of the
training.....making morally superior soldiers.
Further on he states:
11
We hear soldiers criticized for their foolhardi-
ness or 'naivety'. That does not matter for it is
the good effect of military education. That the
soldiers are too simple or easily imposed upon
shows that the world outside is worse than the mili-
tary in their moral standards."
Throughout the trials the "immorality" of the politicians is
referred

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
referred to. The members of the armed forces who took
part in the assassinations and attempted assassinations
appear to have thought that they were helping to rid the
Emperor of "immoral" advisers. Their ideas on these mat-
ters were taught them by their superior officers and the
latter therefore cannot escape a certain responsibility
for the consequences, a fact which they undoubtedly real-
ize.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
THE CRIMES
Before going further in discussing this matter a brief
resume of certain facts will be given. On February 9, 1932
Mr. Junnosuke Inouye, twice Finance Minister of Japan and
outstanding Minseito leader, was shot dead as he was arriv-
ing to speak at a political meeting. On March 5, before
the public had recovered from this shock it learnt that
Baron Takuma Dan had been shot by a native of the same vil-
lage from which come the assassin of Mr. Inouye. Baron Dan
was senior managing director of the Mitsui Gomei Kaisha and
the outstanding leader of Japanese industry and finance.
Within a few days the police discovered the existence of an
organized socicty called the "Blood Brotherhood", the mem-
bers of whicn had sworn to kill many of the most prominent
leaders in Japanese politics and industry. The plotters
were immediately arrested and the press was prohibited from
publishing anything about them until the public trials of
fourteen of them began on June 28, 1933.
In the meantime, it appears that other groups planned
to carry out the aims of those who had been arrested. The
leaders and organizers were a group of junior naval officers.
They secured the cooperation of a group of civilians and
tried to interest a group of army officers. Failing to win
over the latter, they finally obtained the aid of some mili-
tary cadets. May 15, 1932 was the day set for a series of
terroristic acts which the perpetrators hoped would throw
the city into confusion, cause the proclamation of martial
law, and thereby bring a military regime into power which
would destroy the influence of the "privileged classes".
About

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
About five o'clock on the afternoon of the appointed day
two groups composed of naval officers and military cadets
entered the official residence of Premier Inukai. After
wandering about the house and frightening away all those
detailed to guard him, they fired several shots at him
from the effects of which he died a few hours later. A
policeman also died from wounds received in defending the
house. During the attack upon the Premier's residence
another group threw a hand grenade at the entrance of the
home of Count Makino, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, doing
little damage. A group of uniformed men also entered the
offices of the Metropolitan Police Board destroyed a cer-
tain amount of furniture and other property and wounded a
policeman. Simultaneously, civilian groups attacked certain
electric power stations but failed to cause any serious
damage.
The Japanese public was naturally stunned by these acts
but the effect which the perpetrators desired was not pro-
duced.
Finance Minister Takahashi immediately became Pre-
mier pro tem. The only surviving genro, Prince Saionji,
was summoned ano it was finally decided to appoint Admiral
Viscount Saito as Premier of a new national government. The
various offenders either gave themselves up to the police or
were soon arrested. After several days a press ban was
placed upon the publication of news concerning the police
investigations. Little was heard for a year, until the be-
ginning of the public trials of the participants - those of
ten naval officers on July 24, those of eleven military
cadets on July 25, and those of twenty civilians on Septem-
ber 26, 1933.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
The Trials of the "Blood Brotherhood"
The public trials of fourteen members of the Blood
Brotherhood began on June 28 and continued until July 28
when they were interrupted by a dramatic challenge of the
presiding judge made by Nissho Inouye, the leader of the
accused. They lasted, however, long enough to produce
very interesting evidence regarding the mentality of the
membersof the Blood Brotherhood and the motives for their
crime. The st tements of the young men on trial are rend-
ered more significant by the sympathy which is expressed for
them by large sections of the Japanese people. Persons who
criticize their actions laud their motives. In the country
districts it is understood that the masses go further than
feeling mere sympathy for them. Large sections of the Em-
peror's subjects actually share the political and social
beliefs of the accused, which the more sophisticated people
of the cities consider to be based largely on ignorance.
Nearly all the men on trial are in their early twenties.
One exception is the alleged leader, Teru Inouye, also known
as Nissho Inouye, who is 47 years of age. For many years
prior to 192l he was an army secret agent stationed princi-
pally in Manchuria. He returned to Japan in that year and
soon became interested in the doctrines of the Nichiren sect
of Budihism. For one year (1928-9) he secluded himself in
the mountains studying th Nichiren prayer.
According to the statements made in court by one of
the other defendants, the Nichiren sect places more emphasis
on practice than on prayer. It believes in a Spartan manner
of living. The members are a serious set of people and sub-
1ect

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
ject themselves to many hardships of living in order to
prove their "sincerity". According to the evidence submitted
at the trial the "prophet" Nichiren taught his followers that
they should fight with the sword to save the nation, that
not a single unhappy person should exist, and that one can-
not save one's self alone but must save the whole nation.
"The height of Budohism is sensitiveness to nature..... The
compassion of the samurai is the natural and spontaneous
sentiment of the human being. It is a sentiment quite dif-
ferent from vhat is implied in 'Love your enemy'." - such are
some of the statements of the beliefs of the Nichiren sect
as stated during the trial of Adashi Konuma, aged 23, the
actual assassin of former Finance Minister Inouye.
Nearly all the accused stated that Nissho Inouye was
their inspiration and guide. He himself assumed the blame
for the plans to assassinate not only Finance Minister Inouye
and Baron Dan but also nearly a dozen other prominent leaders
for the purpose of doing away with the present system of
government and restoring Japan to the ancient "Imperial Way".
The reasons for their dissatisfaction with the present sys-
tem may be summarized as (1) the corruption of thepolitical
parties, (2) the oppression of the privileged classes,and
(3) the tendency among the general public to seek pleasure.
During the trial the accused constantly referred to the manner
in which the rulers allowed Japan to suffer the loss of her
dignity at the London Naval Conference. It appears that Japan's
acceptance of a naval limitation below that of the United
States and Great Britain was considered by all of them a form
of national humiliation and was for many of them the immediate
cause

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
cause for turning against the Government.
The leader, Nissho Inouye stated as follows:
" I am not thinking much about the building of the
state. However, party politics in Japan disregard
the politics of the country; it is specially privi-
leged politics. Politics of the right wing in Ger-
many is politics of the god. In order to overcomè
the present deadlocked condition of Japan, tnere is
a necessity to reform and correct party politics
which disregard the constitution of the nation. The
genro system should be abolished. The Emperor should
give the final word. Matters should be left to the
Emperor's decision. Political parties are to be blamed
for the high-handed manner in which matters are carried
out by the privileged class. Another important thing
is to borrow the influence of religion."
Kenji Mori, 22, intended slayer of Premier Inukai, when
giving his evidence, shouted his denunciation of "the ex-
ploitation of the masses by the capitalists and the degrada-
tion of politicians". He stated that "destruction must pre-
cede construction". Takeshi Hoshiko, 25, a law graduate
at the Kyoto Imperial University, said "in order to live
one must save others first". He explained that he wanted
to save the working class and then proceed to the enforce-
ment of a strict code of social measures.
Most of the accused stressed their loyalty to the Em-
peror. Kishiro Suda, 26, who was assigned to kill Prince
Iyesato Tokugawa, at that time President of the House of
Peers and descendant of the ancient Shoguns, stated that the
abdication of the Shogun had not erased his "deed of dis-
loyalty" to the Emperor. Suda's desire was to assassinate
Prince Tokugawa because of the centuries during which his
ancestors deprived the Emperor of power.
On July 28, just as Judge Sakamaki began questioning
one of the defendants, Nissho Inouye leaped to his feet and
challenged him, shouting "Does not the judge recognize the
necessity

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
necessity of no more questions for the time being so that
he may hear the true feelings we had?.... I challenge the
presiding judge.... he has not been thorough in preparation
for this trial and has not watched the proceedings carefully
.... The judge seems to think these fellows are simple....
concentrates only on legal interpretations and has no proper
understanding of the defendants as human beings." He then
turned on the assistant judge an challenged him also. A
canvass of the prisoners was hel and all except three ex-
pressed themselves as in agreement with Inouye. The judge
then "rejected" the challenge but stated that it could be
carried to the Court of Appeal.
This amazing incident was followed by one which as-
tounded foreign observers even more. The press reported
that the Judge had visited Inouye in his cell to pray him
to withdraw his challenge. This being refused the challenge
was carried to a higher court and it was only on September
7 that the latter handed down a decision rejecting the ap-
peal. It is unerstood that the intricacies of Japanese
court procedure will prevent the public trial being resumed
for some time.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
-10 -
The Courtmartial of the Military Cadets.
The public courtmartial of the eleven military
cadets involved in the May 15th Incident, which included
the assasination of Premier Inukai and the attack on
various builcings in the city, began on July 25. They
were all accused of rebellion. During the trials all of
them showed that they were imbued with an intense patriot-
ism but their speeches lacked the philosophic touch charac-
teristic of the testimony given by the members of the
Blood Brotherhood.
They were all very young men, between
22 and 25 years of age, and had received a different kind
of training from that of the civilians. Furthermore their
part in the affair had been only to follow the directions
given them by their naval colleagues. Some modern psycho-
logists might say that they were motivated partly by a de-
sire to obtain glory comparable to that accorded the 47
ronin famous in Japanese history; but to the layman their
motive seemed to be a sincerely patriotic desire to reform
the government. During the trials each declared that he
continued to believe in the righteousness of his acts and
each asked that the death penalty be inflicted upon him.
The first cadet to be questioned, Akinori Goto, said
"Let the attempt be carried on by one after another through
seven gener:tions".
He then expressed regret that his ac-
tion had caused apprehension to the Emperor and said that
he expected to receive the death sentence in punishment for
this. He asserted that the group wished by their acts to
arouse potential leaders to save the nation in its crisis.
He said that they were impressed by the suffering among
the agricultural population in their native district and
they

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
they believed that the national crisis had its roots in
the "degradation of the privileged classes"; that the
politicians had done nothing to relieve the distress in
the agricultural districts, from which most of the army
comes.
Ichinosuke Shinohara commenced his testimony with
the same assertions of not having changed his mind during
the period since may 15, 1932 and of being willing to ac-
cept the death penalty on account of the anxiety which his
acts caused the Emperor. He professed himself to be a
close student of the Constitution and of Chinese-Japanese
relations. He blamed the Government for obstructing the
establishment of Greater Asia by aggravating the relations
between China and Japan. He criticized the attitude of the
United States toward Japan. He attacked the London Naval
Treaty and the Japanese delegation which negotiated it.
Haruo Yagi, after reiterating the beliefs already ex-
pressed by his confederates, said that he had been interest-
ed in the Korean question and he blamed the Japanese admini-
stration for the anti-Japanese and communistic thought of
the Korean masses. Another defendant attacked the student
classes of Japan, accusing them of idling away their time
and ignoring national affairs. Another stated that in
order to establish a continental policy in the Far East the
evil influence of the United States, the Soviet Union, and
Great Britain in China must be eliminated.
Kenichi Sakamoto told the court that the conspirators
were divided into two groups, one to raid the house of Pre-
mier

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
mier Inukai and the other to attack the residence of Count
Makino, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal. It was planned that
after the assaults were carried out the two groups were to
unite
and call at the residence of Fleet Admiral Count
Heihachiro Togo and ask him to wait on the Throne with a
plea for a declaration of martial law. They planned then to
summon Seikyo Gondo, a contemporary scholar noted for his
imperialistic doctrines, to come to the official residence
of the War Minister to direct the work of reconstructing
the state machinery. It appears th't the latter part of
the program was not carried out because the first part did
not throw the city into as much confusion as had been anti-
cipated.
The motive most often mentioned by the military cadets
in explaining their actions on May 15 was the corruption
among the politicians and "privileged classes".
The army
is recruited largely from the country districts where pover-
ty reigns. The statements of the cadets are generally held
to represent the opinions of the class from which they come.
They resent the growing wealth of the industrial classes
and blame their own condition on the corruption among the
politicians of which they read. This explains the general
sympathy which their case has aroused in the country districts
of Japan. The War Minister has been deluged with petitions
for clemency for them.
The estimates of the total number
are all over 50,000.
On August 19, standing near a glass jar containing
the severed little fingers of nine sacrificial sympathizers
with the cause of the defendants, the Procurator asked the
Court to impose a punishment of eight years imprisonment on
the eleven cadets. He ackncwledged their patriotism and, as
further

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
further justification for a light punishment, he conceded
that they had not participated in planning or directing the
affair but had been led by naval officers. However, he
maintained that they ha committed the worse crime known
to the Army Code, that of rebellion, and were subject to
terms of servitude. In addition, he pointed out that their
acts had caused great anxiety to His Majesty the Emperor
and this could never be excused.
For sevoral days after the delivery of the Procurator's
speech the lawyers for the defense pleaded for the acguit-
tal of the cadets. They used every conceivable argument
from references to the famous 47 ronin to assertions that
assumption of power by the present national cabinet just
after the incident occurred was a move toward the kind of
government desired by the defendants.
They denounced the
politicians and the "privilegec classes" and praised the
high-mindedness of the accused. The attorneys were follow-
ed by several former superior officers of the accused who
pleaded on their behalf.
They stated that the threat of
war hangs over Japan and that the cadets were inspired by
the highest and purest patriotism. One of them stated that
the defendants resorted to direct action with the sole object
of "rehabilitating the country in the face of the threaten-
ing situation abroad".
The feelings of the people were given time to become
more quiet before sentence was imposed. A month elapsed
during which little was heard of the army trials and finally
on September 19 the Court imposed sentences of four years
imprisonment

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
- 14 -
imprisonment on the eleven cadets. In delivering sen-
tence the Court stressed the self-sacrificing spirit of
the defendants and the fact that they were not the leaders
in the plot. The sentence was very favorably received by
the friends of the defendants and by the public in general.
It was generally recognized that some sort of punishment
would have to be imposed but that, for political reasons,
it could not be severe. Sympathizers in the agricultural
districts undoubtedly thought that the cadets should be
acquitted but the trials dragged or so long that their
enthusiasm geve out before sentence was passed.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 1.00)
Despatch No. 565.
Date: 0ctober 31, 1933.
Subject: Report on the Reactionary Trials.
Summary:
There is transmitted with this despatch part
of a report on the trials of the Reactionaries who
committed a series of terroristic acts during the first
half of 1932. On February 9 of that year former Fi-
nance Minister Inouye was assassinated. On March 5,
Baron Dan of the Mitsui organization met the same fate
at the hands of a native of the same village from which
came the assassin of Mr. Inouye. It was found by the
police that they were only two out of a number marked
for the same fate by a reactionary society called the
"Blood Brotherhood". Finally on May 15 a series of
terroristic acts were carried out under the leadership
of a group of young naval officers who were assisted
by some military cadets and some civilians, resulting
in the assassination of Premier Inukai.
The principal causes of these affairs were dis-
satisfaction with the political parties on the part of
the people in the agricultural districts as well as
those in the armed services and dissatisfaction with
the London Naval Treaty on the part of the naval of-
ficers.
The public trials of those involved, which took
place more than a year after the crimes were committed,
were stretched out over many months and were given
tremendous publicity. It is believed that the Govern-
ment hoped that by letting the defendants air their
beliefs they would be made to look ridiculous. This
purpose was not accomplished to any great extent as a
large part of the public appear to sympathize with the
accused. The trials have had the effect of discredit-
ing the political parties and strenthening the opposi-
tion to the London Naval Treaty and future projects for
naval limitation.
The report transmitted with this despatch covers √
the uncompleted trials of themembers of the Blood Bro-
therhood and the trials of the military cadets. The
report on the trials of the naval officers will proba-
bly be transmitted in the next pouch.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 22, 1933
THE UNUER SECRETAR
NOV 27 1933
DEPARTMENT OFSIATE
Tokyo's despatch-No. 566 of October 31,
1933, reports that the Ministers of War,
Navy, Finance and Foreign Affairs, together
with the Prime Minister, have been discus-
sing appropriations for the coming fiscal
year in the light of present and future
diplomatic situations.
The military element has been
expounding the view that large expenditures
for armament are necessary to prepare for
the crisis of 1935-1936. Many liheral
Japanese do not believe that any such crisis
1s impending, Baron Wakatsuki, whose
assassination was attempted recently, having
stated publicly that "he is unable to under-
stand why 1936 is regarded as such a
critical year".
The Prime Minister, being alarmed by
the possibility that the controversy over
military appropriations might jeopardize
his Cabinet, called the conference of
interested Ministers partly to avert this
danger and perhaps partly to effect some
reduction

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
reduction in military expenditures.
A statement of policy was issued
after the conclusion of the series of
conferences, but.ahe Embassy believes that
the statement means very little. "Nothing
was decided regarding the military appro-
priations, whioh means that the Army and
Navy will have their way in the framing
of the budget". The despatch atates in
conelusion, however, that Hirota is not to
be obstructed by the military in his
efforts to improve Japan's international
relations.
In a press clipping from Tokyo, Mr.
Takahashi. the Miniater of Finance, is
gredited with issuing a statement indicating
that the military elements will not receive
as much as they are demanding.
EHD/REK

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 31, 1933.
No. 566.
Subject:
Five Ministers' Conference.
894.00
Jile
0 20 33
Divisioo
F
Copy in F F
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
G
NOV 21 1933
Depertment of State
894.00/493
ONI Sx12
MID
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.DA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
A series of conferences held during the past ten
NOV 27 1933
days by the Ministers for War, Navy, Finance, Foreign
FILED
Affairs, and the Premier, have excited much interest
and comnent among the public. These meetings have
been held in camera, but circumstances at the present
time and certain statements given out by the partici-
pants give a fairly good idea of the proceedings.
Although denied by the War Minister, it is commonly
believed that the conferences were called by the Premier to
decide

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
decide on the financial demands of the armed services
in connection with the budget, now being compiled for
the fiscal year beginning in April. These funds which
the Army and Navy demand because of the "critical inter-
national situation", amount to approximately Yen 1,300,000,0 0,
or practically the total ordinary income of the Government.*
It seems probable, though, that the discussions at
these conferences were occupied by the broader aspects
of national finance in relation to national defence and
diplomacy, rether than to in examination of figures. In
making their demands for these huge sums, the military
have had wuch to say ahout the crisis of 1935-36 and
the necessity for thorough military preparedness. For
exanple, General Areki is reported to have stated in
the conference:
" The gravity of the situation confronting
the nation in 1956 means not only the
cuestion of whether or not we renaer use-
less all our sucrifices m: de in the recog-
nition of Manchukuo end in withdrawing
from the League, but it also means that
we must be prepared for the worst...... It
ust be clearly understood that the fundamental
objcctive of these conferonces is concerned
with the life or death of the nation".
It mmust be kept in mind that this idea of an ap-
proaching crisis has been sedulously cultivated by the
military, and has to a large extent been accepted by the
public. Dissenters, who can see no reason to fear that
Jepan's destiny will be at stake, &nd who believe that
X
A despatch will be prepared in the near future on
the buagetary demands.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
the whole idea is propaganda by the military to obtain
a plenteous war-chest, :re discreetly silent. But I
am led to believe, by contacts with liberal Japanese,
that considerable skepticism of this kind does exist.
Baron Wakatsuki, who recently incurred the ill-will
of the yavy by defending the London Treaty, is now re-
ported to have declared that he is unable to understand
why 1936 is regarded as such a critical year. For this
he will receive little thanks from the Army and Navy.
The issue at stake in these conferences was ob-
viously brought on by finance; the problem being whether,
in view of Japan's internationul relations, these i mense
suns
ust be forced from a vepleted treasury and a tax-
burcened peonle. It se ms that Premier Saito called
these meetings wit: the object in mind of bringing
tog ther the inisters r sponsible for finance and
foreign affairs to discuss these matters with the Var
and Navy inisters in the hope of settling a contro-
versy which was threatening the stability of the Cabinet.
He also probably hoped to effect some curtailment of
military expenditures, but in this he was disappointed.
Dur ng the course of the conferences a sensation
wes caused by on anrouncement from the War Ufice after
the conclusion of a meeting of the Supreme ilitary
Council, stating that the entire rmy was firmly behind
General Aruki in his de ence plans. Neither at that
time nor at the present time has the oublic learned any-
thing definite aoout these proposals, and is at a loss to
know

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
know what to think. But the only possible interpretation
is that he de anded cash- and no nonsense about it. How-
ever there is evidence that General Araki has in mind not
only the technical problem  national defence, but also
a far-reaching program of national policy affecting finance,
industry, griculture, education und everything to which
national defence is r lated. The Army has long regarded
with distrust the growth of the great capitalistic enter-
prises of Jenan, and some factions h ve a distinct savor of
state soci lis . The experiments now in progress in America
way have influenced General Aruki's views, as may similar
departures from normal business nethods adonted in Italy,
Ger lany, nd even Fussia. But whotever he hes in mind
is exceedin ly difficult for the Oscidentel ind to under-
stand.
His publie uttercnces ure so occupied by a vague
code which he calls"Kouo" or "Imperisl Way", us to be
inconprehensible.
His pr rar must remain lorgely
unknown until the Army aecides to act.
Although the question of finance ley behind this
conference, the major subject of discussion sse is to have
heen over whether to depend on arms or diplomacy in
framing the netion's nolicies. The defeuce inisters
stood out for prepareuness in the belief that a war is in-
evitable, while the civilian tinisters tool: the view
that diplomatic methods will suffice to wecther any
storms now apparent on the international horizon. Mr.
Hirota has, of course, shown considerable evidence of
his desire to improve Japan's relations with her neighbors,
since ossuming the portfolio of Foreign Affairs, ana if
1eft

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
left to himself woulá probably be able to make definite
progress in this direction. But with the Army and Navy
calling on the people to prepare for an inevitable
war and de..cnaing huge suns for that purpose, Mr. Hirota
would have a herd task ahead of him. r. Ttkahashi, the
Finance inister, if r luctent to force the country
into further indebtedness by expenditures for sums, but
he faces a united Army and avy determined to push through
their plans.
The series of conferences was c ncludeu on October 21,
and  state cent of nstional policies was issued at the
same time, translcted by the Osaka AIyIChI(unglish
edition), s follows:
1.
"The Government aims at peace in its inter-
nation:l relations and is endevoring to
realize this policy by means of diplomacy.
"heg raing n: tional defence, the Government
expects to mt ntein sutficient  rmaments to
forestall menace from without. Simulta-
neously, the Goverament is giving constant
attention to the aujustment of national
defence within the national(fin ncial?)
trength".
This statement, declaring that the nation would
"arm for peace within the limits of fintnce" means very
little and represents typical Japanese compromise to
avoid the appesrence of & disagreement in the Cabinet.
It carries the imolication that nothing was decided
regarding the military appropriations, which means that
the Army and Navy will have their way in the framing
of the budget. The amount of these anpropriations will
therefore be uecided at the buuget conference soon to
be

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
be hela among the Ministers of State.
As I stated in my telegram No. 164 of Öctober 23,
2 p.m., although giving in to the military in the matter
of funds, the liberal elements achieved a measure of
success in these negotiaticns. I am informed that Mr.
Hirota has secured racognition of his views that the
nation needs peace and frienc ly relctions with foreign
nations, ano thet in his c nduct of foreign affairs he must
not be enmberrasred by actions end statements on the part
f the milit ry which would hinder his program. Conse-
(uently there is reson to expect less truculence and
bluster on the pert of the milit ry in regero to foreign
affeirs, nd there is hope for : resl e fort toward
improvement of Janon's r iations with her neighbors. At
the scme time, with agree ent reched between the onposing
factions in the Cabinet, the danger of a rupture has been
averted and a measure of stability ussured for the Saito
Government.
Respectfully,yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
WTT:r

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 4, 1933.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 58l of November 15,
1933, encloses the second portion of the
report which the Embassy is preparing on the
trials of those accused of having assassi-
nated important political figures in 1932.
The present portion is a continuance of the
trial of the naval officers who participated
in the assassination of the Prime Minister,
Inukai. The despatch is adequately covered
by the summary attached to the despatch.
The enclosure is a rather interesting
description of the trial itself and of the
statements made by the defendants in explana-
tion of their purposes in assassinating the
Prime Minister. The conoluding portions of
the report state that the comparatively light
sentences imposed on the prisoners constituted
a victory for the reactionaries "Japanese
liberals are in general disgusted
Japanese newspapermen are personally very
critical of the sentenoes but they are not
yet bold enought to express their anti-
military views in writing. Many of them
predict privately that the milaness of the
sentences will react against the armed
services".
20
EHD/REK

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.85)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 29, 1933.
8
The hvo euclosures, wilh
are coorlt reading ify au have
the time, th doet not eeem tohe
to translale.
I draw y our alten teon to the
stalemenh 17 a Japauese guoled 
The second tenelbuure: The
imime diale fulure (7 mauchukus) is
in visimeuls
E7h

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 15, 1933.
No. 581.
Transmitting a portion of a Report on the
F/ESP
Trials of the Reactionaries involved in the
"May 15" Incident.
Division of
CopyinFE
.894.00
FAR EASTEN AFFAIRS
2分
DEC4-1933
Jl
ARE
Department of State
233
894.00/494
A1
For Dieribution-Che
InLSA
ION1
MLD
COPIES SENT TO
The Honorable
O.N.I. AND M. I.D
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
DEC 11 1933
Sir:
FILED
4921
With reference to my despatch No. 565/of October
31, 1933, transmitting part of a report entitled The
Trials of the Reactionaries Involved in the Incidents
1/.
of 1932", I have the honor to enclose the section of
the report describing the courtmartial of ten naval
sub-lieutenants involved in the terroristic acts of
May 15, 1932 which included the assassination of Pre-
mier Inukai.
The trials have only recently been completed, the
sentences

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
sentences having been announced on November 9. Two of
the defendants were sentenced to fifteen years imprisonment
without labor, one to thirteen years, three to ten years,
three to two years, and one to one year imprisonment. The
four men included in the last two groups were granted stays
of execution which permit their enjoying their freedom on
good behavior.
As thenaval officers instigated the plans for the
terroristic acts of May 15, 1932, and were the leaders in
the affair special interest was attached to their trials,
which commenced at the end of July. During the entire month
of August and the first half of September the newspapers of
Japan were full of the sensational statements made by them
before the court. As news was very scarce it may be said
that these trials furnished the public with its principal
reading matter during that period.
The main topic discussed by the naval officers was the
London Naval Treaty. They bitterly denounced the treaty
and the Japanese officials who negotiated, signed, and rati-
fied it. In fact, the statements of the defendants in the
courtmartial started the recent nationwide discussion of
the London treaty and the next naval conference which has
been described in other despatches of this Embassy. One of
the defendants stated that he and his associates were deter-
mined to take "direct action" in order to"bring the nation
to its senses" before the next conference. The "outbursts"
of the defendants fully prepared the public for the "warn-
ings" of the jingoists and constituted military preparedness
propaganda of the first order. The Army was provided with
strong

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
strong support for its theory of an approaching crisis
1n 1935-36.
As a result of the trials the general public links
the present naval limitations with corruption in politics
and other evils denounced by the defendants. In gauging
Japanese opposition to continuance of the present naval
ratios careful consideration must be given to this fact.
It may prove possible for the representatives of western
nations to win over some Japanese officials to their point
of view but the latter are not apt to forget what happened
to some of those responsible for the London Treaty. There
are reactionary leaders who are ready to sacrifice their
lives for what they consider to be the honor of Japan and
they are supported by a public which has now been thoroughly
imbued with their ideas.
On the other hand it must be recognized that the same
apparent fearlessness exists in some of the Japanese liberals.
There is a story now going the rounds of Tokyo that Baron
Wakatsuki, the chief Japanese delegate to the London conference,
when leaving his home recently to deliver a speech in de-
fense of the naval treaty, summoned all the members of his
family and bade them farewell, saying that he would probably
not return alive. The story is probably true, though it
cannot be verified. It has taken considerable courage for the
former liberal premier to make several of his recent speeches,
especially the one made at Nagoya where he tried to counter-
act some of the influence of the defendants in the court-
martial.
There are people in Tokyo who believe that the cause
of the militarists will suffer a set back as a result of
the

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
the sentences offifteen years imprisonment which were
the maximum imposed upon the army and navy men. The man
who in 1930 fired the shots at Premier Hamaguchi which
were adjudged to have caused his death six months later
was recently sentenced to death. The fact that the slayers
of Premier Inukai received punishment of so much milder a
nature may convince the people that the military have gone
too far in creating for themselves a privileged position.
Japanese liberals, who are incensed at the verdict, hope
that this will be the case. It is reported that several
civilian members of the Cabinet have privately expressed
their dissatisfaction with the light penalties inflicted
upon the military and naval men and that it will strengthen
their opposition to the budgetary demands of the armed ser-
vices.
It is yet too soon to state whether the penalty im-
posed by the civil court will be generally considered by
the public to be too severe or the sentences of the court-
martials too lenient. However, it is certain that in re-
ducing the death penalties demanded by the naval procura-
tor to fifteen years imprisonment the courtmartial averted
serious trouble within the navy itself. The procurator's
demand evidenced an attempt to impose a more severe penalty
but the outcry from the young naval officers was too strong.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Copy of Report.
800.
SWW:g.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
The Courtmartial of the Naval Officers.
While the trials of the members of the "Blood Bro-
therhood" held the attention of the public during July,
the courtmartial of the ten naval officers who planned
and led the May 15th Incident when Fremier Inukai was
assassinated provided the sensational news of August.
The courtmartial of the Army cadets, which has been des-
cribed, was of great intereet to people in the country
districts whose mentality the cadets typified. However,
the naval court proceedings were of greater general in-
terest, partly because the defendants were probably of
a slightly higher type of mentality and partly because
the naval officers were the leaders in organizing and
directing the affair.
Five of the naval officers were accused of rebellion
and five of attempted rebellion. With the exception of
one, a lieutenant of 35 years of age, all were sub-Lieu-
tenants of ages ranging from 25 to 29. According to the
Procurator's opening speech and other evidence produced
during the trial, the original leader in planning the ter-
roristic program was the late Lieutenant Commander Fujii
who was killed in the Shanghai fighting early in 1932. He
preached the theory of Greater Asia, with Japan leading
the other Asiatic peoples in throwing off the domination
of the white race. He and two of the accused, Kiyoshi
Koga and Kakushi Murayama, worked hard to interest other
persons in their ideas. They believed that in modern
Japan, the party statesmen, the wealthy, and the "privileged
classes"

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
classes" were all corrupt and had no patriotic sentiments.
As long ago as 1930 they were planning to take "direct
action" for a national reform. Fujii was killed on Febru-
ary 5, 1932, but the others carried his plans forward.
The plan as finally formulated was to form four groups.
On the appointed day one would attack the Premier's offi-
cial residence; a second would attack the official residence
of the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, Count Makino; a
third would attack the Seiyukai Party headquarters; and a
fourth would attack the Mitsubishi Bank. Following these
moves the first three groups would together attack the
Metropolitan Police Board and the fourth would attack
several power stations. By carrying out this plan they
hoped to assassinate the Premier and Count Makino; to fight
a decisive battle with the police, destroying its power
and revealing its powerlessness; to throw the capital into
darkness; to arouse the people and bring about the procla-
mation of martial law; and, by these acts, to show the peo-
ple that law and order could only be maintained by the mili-
tary. They all stated during the trials that they had ex-
pected to be killed during the affair and had written fare-
well letters to their families.
As related elsewhere in this report the naval officers
in cooperation with a group of army cadets and a group of
civilians succeeded in killing the Premier, but their several
attacks upon public and semi-public buildings and institutions
did not create as much confusion as was intended and failed
to bring about the effects desired by the conspirators.
The first defendant to testify was Kiyoshi Koga. He
stated

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
stated that destruction, not the destruction of nihilism,
but destruction with full confidence of reconstruction and
the realization of better conditions was the ideal and
driving power of the rebellious group in taking a hand in
the nationalist conspiracy. The institutions which were
attacked were, he said, symbols of corrupt policies and
their destruction was necessary as the first step toward
reform and purification. Koga did not explain very satis-
factorily why he, as leader of the group which threw hand
grenades at Count Makino's residence, changed the plans
at the last moment and did not try to kill the Lord Keeper
of the Privy Seal. He denied the rumors that he had been
bribed to spare the life of Count Makino and asserted that
the reason for his decision was that the party had arrived
there late and he thought it more important to get on to
the Metropolitan Police Board where the great fight was
expected to take place.
The second defendant to be questioned was Yoshio Naka-
mura. He stated that the present party system of government
was more tyrannous than the old Shogunate and "has brought
extreme disgrace on Japan as a country ruled by the Emperor".
He said that he had been aroused especially by the great
number of scandals among the politicians who had been hold-
ing office. The plotters wished to get rid of Count Makino
because they considered him an undesirable influence near
the Throne. Nakamura stated that they thought that their
action would bring into power a coalition Cabinet with
General Araki and Baron Hiranuma as key members, without any
simulation of the western system but established purely
on

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
on the guiding spirit of "Yamato Damashii", the essence
of Japanese patriotism.
Taku Mikami, the leader of the group which attacked
the Premier's residence, bitterly criticized certain naval
authorities and particularly those responsible for the
negotiation of the London Naval Treaty. He attacked Baron
Wakatsuki, the leader of the Japanese delegation at London,
and Admiral Takarabe. He stated that he had planned to
kill the latter upon his return from London but had re-
frained, thinking that a better effect would be produced
if a group did it. He said that in 1928 and 1929 as a re-
sult of reading many books on the Meiji Restoration he
became convinced of the necessity of a national reconstruc-
tion and that he had especially never liked the spirit domi-
nating the chiefs of the navy. At the time of his first
cruise he thought that the relations between the officers
and men were too formal for effective cooperation at a
time of emergency. He believed that most of the higher of-
ficials of the navy were corrupted by their contacts with
politicians and plutocrats. He stated that the aim of their
revolution was to bring about direct Imperial rule and har-
mony between the ruling and the ruled; that the plutocrats
inconsistent with their aims were to be overthrown; that
"our conviction is that the meaning of the National Constitu-
tion must be clarified on a basis of the fundamental policy
of the Empire"; that those opposed to this must be removed;
and that insofar as the conspirators desired to establish
direct "Imperial Rule" they were neither Right nor Left.
Mikami said that he did not commit suicide after the May 15th
Incident because he feared that after his death the true
intention

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
intention of the conspirators would not be understood.
As the trials progressed it became more and more ap-
parent that the London Naval Treaty was the immediate
cause of most of the plotting among the naval officers.
Some defendants confessed that they had planned the as-
sassination of Mr. Hamaguchi who was Premier at that time
and who was shot by a man outside the group on November
30, 1930, subsequently dying from his wounds. As time
progressed themost radical of the discontented officers
in the navy got together under the leadership of Lieute-
nant Commander Fujii and the plan to commit wholesale as-
sassinations was the result. They all knew Nissho Inouye,
the leader of the Blood Brotherhood. They were inspired
by his plans and the beginning made by his organiza-
tion in the killing of Finance Minister Inouye and Baron
Dan and they we e determined to do what the members of the
Blood Brotherhood had failed to do, - i.e. to bring about
a national reform by means of "direct action".
Isamu Kuroiwa, the one who fired the first shot at
Premier Inukai, introduced the subject of the London Naval
early
Treaty/in the course of the trials. He said that Japan's
ratio was forced upon her by "a certain country" as a means
of promoting its anti-Japanese policy. He stated further,
"When Admiral Takarabe and the other delegates left
to attend the Conference, they resolved not to re-
turn alive if they could not induce the Conference
to accept the Japanese claims ....... They were like
the warriors of the Heiki group who took to flight,
mistaking the noise of sea birds as the sound of an
enemy. .... The worst was to follow. The Hamaguchi
Cabinet endorsed the action of the delegates at Lon-
don.... brought pressure to bear on the Naval General
Staff, thus violating the Supreme Command.... Finan-
cial circles approved the Treaty in view of Japan's
trade relations with the United States.... The Genro
and

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
and the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal were in
unholy league with the political parties.....
The parties allowed themselves to be influenced
by financial circles.... The signing of the treaty
was the result of a league between political par-
ties itching for power and the Takarabe faction
of the Navy, which also was itching for political
power.n
Hiroshi Yamagishi, who gave the order to fire on the
Premier, contributed toward the explanation of the connec-
tion between the naval officers and the civilians. He de-
nied that Nissho Inouye was the leading figure in the plots.
He said that the members of the Blood Brotherhood were fel-
low thinkers with the naval officers, and nothing more. He
said that the theories of Mr. Seikyo Gondo, a nationalis-
tic writer, inspired him and his associates but that Mr.
Gondo was not considered a member of their group. He reiter-
ated that the London Naval Treaty was the immediate reason
for the plot and said that the plotters struck when they
did because they thought that somet ing had to be done be-
fore the treaty should expire.
Kakushi Murayama told the court that abolition of pluto-
cracy in Japan, restriction of the system of private owner-
ship, and penetration of Manchuria were among the "Reforms"
desired by the plotters. He said that, during the year of
his imprisonment since the incident, he had prayed daily
for Premier Inukai, Finance Minister Inouye, and Baron Dan,
hoping that their deaths would contribute toward the recon-
struction of the country. He bitterly assailed the "privi-
leged class, the political parties, and the plutocracy",
emphasizing especially the "necessity of clearing the Imperial
Court of corrupt elements".
Of interest to Americans is the fact that the conspira-
tors at one time planned to kill Mr. Charlie Chaplin in
the

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
the hopes that his death would start a war between Japan
and the United States, which would strengthen the position
of the military in Japan. According to the testimony of
one of them, their final plans provided for the assassina-
tion of the American Ambassador and the American Consul
General. The witness stated that this would have taken
place during a second series of assassinations planned for
later in the night of May 15. The testimony on this sub-
ject is a little vague as only one witness mentioned the
plans for this "second wave" of assassinations. Evidently
the plans for the later phases of the affair were slightly
vague. Furthermore, it happens that neither the American
Ambassador nor the Consul General were in Japan on May 15,
1932. The reference to them is one ofseveral statements
made by the defendants which indicate that the group was
not in close touch with anyone familiar with happenings in
official circles in Tokyo.
On September 11 the Procurator demanded that the Court
impose the following sentences: the death sentence for Mikami,
Kuroiwa, and Koga, who were the three principals in the af-
fair; life imprisonment for three; six years imprisonment
for three; and three years imprisonment for one, who was in-
cidentally the only defendant over thirty years of age. The
Procurator's address to the Court was well received by the
press and the general public. He expressed great sympathy
for the aims and ideals of the accused but insisted
that as they had violated the law they must suffer the pe-
nalties provided for their respective offenses. He admitted
that their motives were the highest but condemned the view
put

=== Page 336 === (confidence 1.00)
-22-
put forward by the defendants' lawyers that an act of
violence is justifiable if the motive is right. The press
voiced the sympathy of the nation for the defendants but
refrained from criticizing the Government's Procurator.
In fact, the latter's speech was in general lauded as a
model of clear thinking and most editorials stated that
heavy penalties would have to be inflicted in order to
uphold law and order.
The Procurator in his speech made references to a
"certain incident" which influenced the plotters. One of
the accused later expressed regret that the Government did
not see fit to publish the details of "the certain i cident".
More light was thrown on the matter by the ASAHI whie
stated in an editorial of September 12:
"The general belief is that the participation of
Sub-Lieutenant Koga in the 'certain' affair
prompted him to hope to rely on certain powerful
forces to adjust the situation after the institu-
tion of martial law. To this 'certain affair' is
also ascribed the trust which the accused naval
officer came to repose in the power of Dr. Shumei
Okawa and his group, now on trial for outrages com-
mitted early last year. It seems that the plot of
Dr. Okawa and his associates to bring about a reform-
ation of the country through resort to violence
provided the main inspiration to the perpetrators
of the May 15 outrages." ( Dr. Okawa is one of the
civilians under arrest and being held for trial for
complicity in the May 15 affair).
Nothing more is known about this mysterious affair. During
the first half of 1932 Tokyo was agog with rumors of plots
and some of the stories, discredited at the time, may have
been true; or,"the certain incident" may have taken place
several years ago. It is assumed by many that the Govern-
ment's reason for suppressing information concerning "the
certain incident" is that one or more members of the Im-
perial Family were implicated. This would explain Sub-
Lieutenant

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
Lieutenant Koga's belief that the situation on May 15
would be adjusted after martial law had been proclaimed.
The only apparent connection between "the certain incident"
and the May 15th Incident is that, in the former, one or
more influential persons were involved on whom the parti-
pants in the latter thought they could rely during the
later stages of their affair.
Although the press expressed its accord with the de-
mands of the Procurator, it soon became apparent that every-
thing was not right within the navy itself. It was reported
that at least one officer had attempted to commit harakiri
in protest. Within less than a week after the demand was
made the Navy Minister found it necessary to send out a
circular note requesting that all members of the navy "use
the utmost prudence in their speech and conduct". It was
publicly admitted that a furore of protest had been caused
in the Fleet. The Minister had to secure the assistance
of Fleet Admiral Heihachiro Togo who emerged from retire-
ment to the extent of issuing a statement to the navy re-
questing it to remain calm. The Minister assured the navy
that "the sacred courtmartial would never fail to pass a
fair judgment".
The naval courtmartial did nothing for more than a
month. During this time public agitation over the trials
began to subside. The trials of the civilians involved in
the May 15th Incident proceeded but appeared to arouse lit-
tle general interest. Then the Civil Supreme Court, which
had been considering the appeal of Sagoya, the assassin of
former Premier Hamaguchi, refused to reverse the death sen-
tence

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
- 24 -
tence imposed by a lower court and many considered this
to mean that a severe penalty would be imposed by the
naval courtmartial on the leaders in the assassination of
Premier Inukai.
The decision was announced on November 9. The maxi-
mum penalty was fifteen years imprisonment without labor
and was imposed upon only two of the defendants, Mikami
and Koga. Kuroiwa, the third, for whom the death penalty
was demanded by the Procurator, was sentenced to thirteen
years imprisonment. The three for whom sentences of life
imprisonment were asked were sentenced to ten years im-
prisonment. Of the other four defendants, three were
sentenced to two years imprisonment with five years stay
of execution and one to one year imprisonment with two
years stay of execution. The last four were released a
few days later and will be allowed their freedom as long as
they behave themselves during the periods of five and two
years respectively.
The sentences constituted a victory for the reaction-
aries. Japanese liberals are in general disgusted. Ap-
parent to all is the discrepancy between the penalty im-
posed by the civil court on the assassin of Premier Hama-
guchi, whc did not die for several months after he had been
shot, and the sentences given the assassins of Premier
Inukai, who unquestionably died from the effects of the
bullets. Of course the naval courtmartial was influenced
by conditions in the navy. It is not doubted that serious
trouble would have arisen if the three naval officers had
been sentenced to death. In passing sentence the naval
courtmartial considered themotive of the crime while the
civil court tried to uphold law and order by stating that
"the

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
-25 -
"the fixing of the penalty should not be based upon
motive".
The first reaction of the press was to express the
warning against too much emphasis being placed upon the
purity of the motives of the accused as it might encourage
others to commit the same crimes. Japanese newspapermen
are personally very critical of the sentences but they are
not yet bold enough to express their "anti-military" views
in writing. Many of them predict privately that the mild-
ness of the sentences will react against the armed services.
However, all recognize that tranquility has been restored
in the navy.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatch No. 581.
Date: November 15, 1933.
Subject:
Transmitting a portion of a Report on the
Trials of the Reactionaries involved in the
"May 15" Incident.
Summary:
This despatch, which is a supplement to Des-
patch No. 565 of October 31, transmits another
section of the report entitled "The Trials of
the Reactionaries Involved in the Incidents
of 1932". The present section covers the trials
C
of the young naval officers who were involved
3
2
in the May 15th Incident. As the terroristic
acts which involved the assassination of Pre-
AN
C
mier Inukai originated with some of the naval
L.
officers special interest was attached to their
trials.
Another reason for the tremendous popular in-
terest which was shown in the naval courtmar-
tial was that the London Naval Treaty was the
main topic discussed by the defendants. They
denounced the treaty and all the Japanese of-
ficials who had anything to do with it. They
furthermore asserted that the principal cause
of their participation in the conspiracy was
the "humiliation" which Japan suffered at Lon-
don and their desire to remove the "corrupt"
politicians from office before the next naval
conference.
The wide publicity which the statements of the
defendants received has served to impress their
ideas upon the Japanese public and has there-
fore constituted excellent military prepared-
ness propaganda. In spite of the demand of
the naval procurator that the death penalty
be inflicted upon the three leading members
of the group, the maximum sentence was fifteen
years imprisonment for two of them. As the
civilian assassin of former Premier Hamaguchi
was recently sentenced to death, Japanese li-
berals hope that the comparative mildness of the
courtmartial sentences will cause a reaction
against the armed services. However, it is
too soon to state that their wish will become
a fact.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
8940.77/10
Despatch #584
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
November 16,1933
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Militarization of the South Manchuria Railway under the
Kwantung Army.
esp

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.83)
RECEVED
DEC 27 1933
Ec1193
DIVISION OF
President. Frewtlin
A
washingtan
Drar enr. Prordent.
Jam melosng
witicle cheping finm ths I Dais
Lath
givny littel nizi
star of wee th
gapo holpny that gun onay
en the
Gev. B. Browg
fe
894.00
873
 911.94050
Divisysn of Ch
FAR EASTORN AFFAIRS
DEC28
DEC 29 1933

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
FAST, SAYS BRROW
(Continued from. Page One)
virile, active, and apparently quite
happy and contented. Excellent con-
to
ditions in industry would appear to
th
me to make any possibility of Com-
by
munism exceedingly unlikely.
Willing to Co-operate
"I was talking to one Japanese
a
minister and I referred to the rather
ridiculous competition with the pro-
ducts of western nations, of which
low-priced products of Japan are
capable," continued Sir Harry. "The
minister told me Japan was anxious
and ready to harmonize in commer-
clal matters with other nations.
"The Japanese are gradually build-
ing a very fine fleet of ocean liners,
he continued.
"Industrially, too,
particularly in the chemical indus-
tries, the nation is making decided
s0
progress. So great is their develop-
er
ment of intensive cultivation that,
u,
despite their tremendous population
increase, before long they will be
self-supporting.
"Japan's military operations and
ambitions arè a forbidden subject."
on
Sir Harry said. "It is exceedingly
difficult to even impersonally discuss
these subjects in Japan.
"China is awakening to her'possi-
bilities,"
emphasized Sir Harry.
y,
"To-day her great drawback is lack
of political stability. Her revenues
are being constantly depleted by
campaigns against the war lords of
the north and the Communists in the
south.
"The central government at Nan-
king is bending every effort toward
achieving political security, without
which assistance from the west can
th
11
scarcely be expected. They are mak-
ing progress in this right direction.
"Heads of big concerns should go
personally to China and Japan." he
advised. "It is of no use sending a
$5,000-a-year man there. He cannot
make decisions and by the time he
is back the chance probably is gone.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, December 16, 1933.
DEPATTMENT OF STATE
JAN 5 1934
URPEAN AFFAIRS
 Hhh
894.08
Divislon of
SPECLAL REPORT
(No.W.D.1352)
FAR EASTERN AFPTI
END
F
DEC 29 1933
894.00/497
To the Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
The merican Chargé d'ffaires ad
interim forwards herewith Mr. Warrington
Dawson's Special Report No. W. D. 1352,
dated December 16, 1933.
JAN 8 - 1934
FI1.ED
CoP.
WD/DRS

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, December 16, 1933.
Serial No. . D. 1352.
SPECLAL REPORT,
By Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant.
SUBJECT: Articles by Robert Poulaine
Dealing With the Far East
Forwarded herewith will be found further
articles addressed from the Far East to LE TEMPS
by Robert Poufaine; one, which appeared on
October 25, 1933, concluding the series on Japan,
and the other, published on November 29, 1933,
dealing with Manchuria.
The former leads up to the following conclu-
sion:
"Even though budget burdens (in Japan) may
be inoreased, it should not be concluded that the
general situation will be compromised. If a threat
were to arise from abroad against Japanese econ-
omics or the national currency, the extraordinary
discipline of this people would assert itself, and
the

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
the Emperor would need only to appeal to the dewotion
of mis subjects, for each one to control his high
temper and impose upon himself severe restrictions."
The article on Manchuria ends with the following
words:
"Not very long ago, prophets were announcing an
inevitable war in the Pacific. I do not wish to yield
to the easy fad of vacillation, but I make bold to
write with a knowledge of facts that in the near
future Manchuria may well become once again a battle-
field."
The originals of these articles are enclosed.
Very respectfully,
wasnunglan Dawnon.
Warrington Dewson,
Special Assistant.
Enclosures:
rticles from LE TEMPS of October 25, 1933,
and of November 29, 1933.
In quintuplicate
851.9111/6a
WD/DRS

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
Artiolea from
PROBLÉMES D'EXTRÊME-ORIENT
Le second exemple, qui a plus particulièramen
trait a l'impérialisme économique japomals 
ses dangers, c'est en Afrique noire française, pays
que je connais bien, que nous irons le prendre.
Le Japon
On sait que toute l'économie domestique du Séné-
gal. pour limiter géographiquement ma démons
VI
tration, est basie sur des échanges entre produe-
(De notre encoyé spicial.)
teurs indigènes et importateurs européens. En
bref, le cultivateur noir vend ses arachides à un
Dans son récent livre. dont le Temps a publié
commerçant français auquel il achète des coton-
les bonnes feuilles et dont les premiers exeimplai-
nades. Cest une opérafion en deux temps effec-
res viennent d'arriver en Extrème-Orient. Pierre
tuée sur le mème comptoir. Survient lo courtter
Lyautey, qui battit, l'année dernière, les mèmes
japonais, portcur d'étoffes dont le prix, pour des
u
sentiers que moi, pose cette question : « Le Japon
raisons exposees plus laut, est très inférieur. Il
est-il surfait ? " Puis il latsse aux lecteurs le som
end une fois, deux fois, mais n'achète pas d'ara-
de conelure, après avoir brièvement exposé la
chides dont il n'a nul besoin. De son côté, l'Eu-
situation écenomique, financière et monétaire de
ropéen continue peut-étre d'acheter une fois, deux
l'empire.
fois la production indigène, puis, n'ayant plus de
Ayant montré de Japon politique. ayant étudié
contre-partie, ferme boutique et déserte la colonie.
le proçessus par lequel ce pays, qui na pas fini
Enfin, troisième stade. le noir ne pouvant plus
d'étonner le monde. en est arrivé à se donner un
écouler sa marchandise, n'ayant par conséquent
gouvernement national-socialiste, il me faut
plus de possibilité d'achat, déserte à son tour
compléter cette enquête par un tableau du Japon
l'échoppe du Japonais qui. pour un bénéflice réel,
économique, puisque, aussi bien, certaines réac-
immédiat et de courte durée, aura pour de lon-
tions politiques sont commandées, qu'on le veuille
gues années brisé toute l'économie politique d'un
ou non, par des préoccupations matérielles.
pays neuf. Sans doute y a-t-il contre de tels pro-
S l'on en juge par les apparences. cest-à-dire
cédés des moyens daction que la France a em-
par les chiffres de son hudget, le Japon ne serait
ployés en élevant des barrières douanières, mais
pas, à notre époque de crise. plus privitégié que
il est des régions, comme le Maroc, soumises par
la plupart des autres nations du giobe, mieux,
les traités à un régime douanier international et
même, il serait dans une situation pius désavan-
uniforme qu'il n'est pas possible de garantir. Il
tagée puisque le déticit atteint presque 50 0/0.
serait done indiqué de conseiller au Japon plus de
Sur un total de dépenses se chiffrant, pour le plus
modération « dans ses transports » et plus de pru-
récent exercice, à 2 milliards 300 millions de yen,
dence, et ce serait, somme toute, lui rendre ser-
soit environ 11 milliards 500 millions de - mon-
vice. Isoló déja politiquement, soit parce que son
nate française, un peu plus de la moitié a été cou-
militarisme offensif a éloigné de lui les amis
verte par les recettes ordinaires, et le reste par
de la paix, soit parce que trop moupçonneux il a
une émission de bons du Trésor à moyen terme
éloigné de lui ses amis et s'est condamné à un
(neuf et treize ans) aisément absorbés par les
militarisme défensif, il continuerait, par l'usage
banques. Pour le budget de l'année 1933-1934, qui
répété des procédés économiques que je viens de
sera en légère augmentation sur le précédent, la
dénoncer, à accumuler autour de lui trop de
différence entre recettes et dépenses sera, elle
rancunes.
aussi, en accroissement plus sensible, en raison
Deux mots en passant de la chambre de com-
des effets de la crise, et comme le gouvernement
merce française de Yokohama qui groupe le petit,
ne veut pas recourir à la création d'impôts nou-
tot petit, trop petit nombre de nos compatriotes
veaux, non plus qu'à une élévation des taxes
it.stallés dans l'empire. Créée pour la défense des
existantes, il lui faudra, une fois de plus, deman-
intérêts français, cette compagnie, qui pourrait
der un complément à l'emprunt.
étre pour la métropole un centre d'information
Deux constatations peuvent déjà se dégager de
documenté par l'expérience de ses membres, n'at-
ce bref examen. D'une part, le déficit proportion-
tend que les consuliants, à commencer par le gou-
nellement considérable et, d'autre part, la modicité
vernement. C'est ainsi que lors de la confection
des dépenses publiques pour un pays qui compta
du dernier traité de commerce franco-japonais
83 mlions d'habitants avec Formose et la Corée,
personne n'a songé à sollicter l'avis de ceux qu'll
pour qui l'occupation de la Mandchourle est très
intéressait peut-étre le plus directement. Je sais
onéreuse, qui, enfin, consacre une forte partie de
bien qu'il existe maintenant des attachés com-
ses ressouroes à son équipement militaire et naval.
merciaux, qui se crolent d'ailleurs plue diplo-
On pourrait ainsi déduire de la premtère, que le
mates qu'hommes d'affaires, mais leurs connais-
Japon est en mauvatme posture, ce qui, dans une
sances théoriques ou livresques pourraient étre
certaine mesure, pourrail donner à la question
heurgusement complétées par celles plus réalstes
de Pierre Lyauley une réponse affirmative si la
des pratiquants.
sedonde n'apportait dans le débat un facteur peut-
A côté de l'industriel et du commerpant so-
être plus moral que matériel mais dans tous les
existe l'agriculteur japonais, eneore que la surtase
cas compensateur et spécifiquement japonais. Elle
de l'empire n'offre que seise à dix-sept peur
vonfrme de façon péremptoire ce que, en une
cent de tarres cultivables. Comme tous les labou-
ligme d'un précédent chapitre, j'exprimais en disant
reure du monde, le paysan du Japon, subit cruel-
que les besoins du corps social au Japon étaient
lement la crise et, comme tous les agrarions, me-
axtrémement modestes, comme lo sont ceux de
la grosse majorité des individus, à quelque caté-
gorle qu'lls appartiannant. Cela résulte à la fots
de la simpliolté dee moaura, de la frugalits et d'une
disefpime colléslive qui fait que le pouple Japo-
maís, menaoe comme tous les autrée par la ariss
cain ou fre
On pout le constalar sur le mareled eai
a dàérique an oe qui concerne les polare et
de csesentir unmon
éotomades, par exemple.
acsrue, qu'on nam ed
Ren membre d'ésopomlstes aiment à répéter que
générale sot compeosiss. 
l'extérleur centre l'ége

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.96)
ne veut pas recourt à la créatlon d'impôts nou-
tont petit, trop petit nombre de nos competrio
veaux, mon plus qu'à une élévatlon des taxes
Istaliés dans l'empire. Créée pour la défonse des
exstantes, il lui faudra, une fois de plus, deman-
intéréts français, cette compagnie, qul pourrass
der un complément à l'emprunt
étre pour la métropole un cantre d'information
Deux contatations peuvent déjà se dégager de
documenté par l'expérience de ses membres, n'st-
ce bref examen. D'une part, le déficit proportfon-
tend que les consultants, à oommeneer par le gou-
nellement considérable et, d'autre part, la modicité
vernement. C'est ainsi que lors de la confestiom
de dépenses publiques pour un pays qui compta
du dernier traité de commerce franco-Japonsis
83 mlions d'habitants avec Formose et la Corée,
personne n'a songé à sollicter l'avia de ceux qu'l
pour qui l'occupation de la Mandchourle est très
intéressait peut-étre le plus directement. Je sais
onéreuse, qui, enfin, consacre une forte partie de
bien qu'il existe maintenant des attachés com-
ses ressources à son équipement militaire et naval.
merciaux, qui se crolent d'allleurs p diplo-
On pourrait ainsi déduire de la première, que le
mates qu'hommes d'affaires, mais leurs connais-
Japon est en mauvaise posture, ce qui, dans une
sances théoriques ou livresques pourraient étre
certaine mesure, pourrait donner à la question
heureusement complétées par celles plus réallstes
de Pierre Lyautey une réponso afflrmative si la
des pratiquants.
seconde n'apportait dans le débat un facteur peut-
A côlé do l'industriel et du commergant co-
étre plus moral que matériel mais dans tous les
existe l'agriculteur japonais, encore que la surfaee
cas compensateur et spécifiquement japonais. Elle
de l'empire n'offre que seize à dix-sept pour
confirme de façon péremploire ce que, en une
cent de terres cultivables. Comme tous les labou-
ligne d'un précédent chapitre, j'exprimais en disant
reurs du monde, le paysan du Japon, subit cruel-
que les besoins du corps social au Japon étaient
lement la crise et, comme tous les agrariens, ma-
extrêmement modestes, conme le sont ceux da
nifeste son mécontentement. Lui aussi a connu
la grosse majorité des individus, à quelque caté-
avec le riz, le thé, et complémentairement avee
gorie qu'ils appartiennent. Cela résulte à la fois
l'élevage du ver à soie, des années de prospérité
de la simplicité des mœurs, de la frugalité et d'une
au cours desquelles il a augmenté son train de
discipline collective qui fait que le peuple japo-
vie. oh ! dans des proportions réduites, se con-
nais, menacé comme tous les autres par la crise
tentant d'une bicyclette quand le « farmer » améri-
mondiale, sera le dernier à se plaindre'de ses
cain ou français roulait en automobite.
effets. Cela a aussi pour conséquence que la pro-
Electeur, dans la mesure où le bulletin de vote
duction japonaise, essentiellement industrielle,
peut avoir au Japon une iniluence, dans tous les
qu'elle soit destinée à In consommation intérieure
ra pa: tie non négligeahle de la masse populaire
ou à lexportation, sera foupours pour lindu-trie
 lapoelle dot compter un gouvernement
américaine et curopenne une plootable con-
national sorñali-te, le cultivateur est lobjet d'une
currente. On peut le con-tater sur de nmarché chi-
soliicitude spiciale. Pour lui venir en aide, on
nois et sur certains marchés des  lonies fran-
vient de lancer un emprunt intérieur plutôt que
çaíses d'Afrique en ce qui conceri  oreries et
de consentir un moraforium général des dettes.
les cotonnades. par exemple.
Mais si la charge du budget se trouve de ce fait
accrue, qu'on n'en conclue pas que la situation
générale soit compromise. En cas de menace de
Bon nombre d'économistes aiment à répéter que
lextérieur contre l'économie ou la monnaie ja-
l'expansion économique japonaise n'aura qu'un
ponaises, l'extraordinnire discipline de ce peuple
temps, parce qu'elle dénote une activité factice.
jouerait, et il sufflrait que l'empereur fasse ap-
les autres que l'industrie nippone étant oblige
Les uns affirment qu'elle procède du dumping.
pel au dévouement de ses sujets pour que chacun
freine sa mauvaise humeur et s'impose des res-
de se procurer à lextérieur une grosse partie de
ses matières premières, achetées aux cours mon-
triction sévères.
ROBERT POULAINE.
diaux, ne pourra longtemps se tenir à l'écart des
mêmes prix mondiaux pratiqués dans la vente au
détail des produits manufacturés. Ils oublient de
tenir compte dans teur raisonnement d'argumtents
essentiels. En premier lieu. Jes nanufacturiers
japonais, venus tard à la production, ont bénéficié,
pour l'équipement do turs usines, des derniers
perfectionnèments, ce qui leur permet de travail-
ler plus vite et mieux que leurs concurrents auro-
péens, handicapés souvent par l'age de leur machi-
nerie non amortie. En second lieu, les heuras de
travail ne sont pas légalement limitées et les
ouvriers reçoivent des salaires extrêmement bas,
quoique en rapport avec le « standard of living ,
ce qui contribue à diminuer considérablement le
prix de revient. Enfin, si le Japon. jusqu'à pré-
sent, élait obligé de se procurer à l'extérieur des
matières premières coûteuses, il fera dans l'ave-
nir de moins en moins appal à l'étranger. L'opéra-
tion de Mandchourie est, en effet, destinée, par
la constitution d'un bloc économique nippo-
mandchou, à compléter l'approvisionnement de la
métropole, et si dans le présent la budget japonais
consent de lourds sacrifices qui aggravent son
déficit et motivent des inquiétudes dans les mi-
lieux internationaux de finance, c'est parce qua les
gouvernants espèrent bien récupérer, dans les
prochaines années, par les bénéfices de l'exploi-
tation mandchoue, l'intérêt et l'amortissement de
l'argent emprunté.
Naturellement le commerce, deuxième branche de
l'activité nationale, qui vit eu grande partie de
la production industrielle, a suivi le développe-
ment de celle-ci. D'ailiaurs la concentration des
capitaux est telle au Japon, dans les mains des deux
principaux trusts Mitsui et Mitsubischi, que la
plupart des grandes affairés tont controlées par
les mémes individus et sont conduites selon les
mámes principes. Tandis que les industrials. aprée
avoir attiré les fournisseurs américains ou occi-
dentaux, les ont servilement copiés puis éliminés,
les commerçants conquièrent petit à petit toutes les
places sur lous les marchéa, avec une ténacité, une
patlence, des méthodes qui en font des conour-
rents dangereux. On retrouve dans cette volonté
d'expansion et d'accaparement un peu de la théo-
rle politique du « panjaponiame . Pour. ne par
er que du commerce français au Japon, repré-
penté par quelques importalaurs ou exportateurs
sér, al des interventions énengiques me se
aire les mains de courtiers juponals. Cela n'suralt
n inconvénient rejalif sl ces mémes courtiera
étalent trop souvent reprásentanta à la fois de
harques françaises et de marques étrangéres con-
arpentes. Bi je pouvais, à ce sujet, dopner à mes.
ompeiriotes quelques conseils, je les mettrais en
de contre la politique de facilité ou de paredse,
à les epoourageant à faire défendre ou surveiller

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
or prus vité et mieux que lours concurrents suro-
péens, handlcapés souvent par l'age de leur machi-
nerle non amortie. En second lleu, les heuras de
travail ne sont pas légalement limitées et les
ouvriers reçoivent des salaires extremement bas,
quolque en rapport avec le « slandard of living ,
ce qui contribue à diminuer considérablement le
prix de revient. Enfin, si lə Japon, jusqu'à pré-
sant, était obligé de se procurer à l'extérieur des
matières premières coûteuses, il fera dans l'ave-
nir de moins en moins appal à l'étranger. L'opéra-
tion de Mandchourie est, en effet, destinée, par
la constitution d'un bloc économique nippo-
mandchou, à compléter l'approvisionnement de la
métropole, et si dans le présent la budget japonais
consent de lourds sacrifices qui aggravent son
déficit et motivent des inquiétudes dans les ni-
lieux internationaux de finance, c'est parce qua les
gouvernants espèrent bien récupérer, dans les
prochaines années, par les bénéfices de l'exploi-
tation mandchoue, l'intérèt et l'amortissement de
l'argent emprunté.
Naturellement le conmerce, deuxième branche de
l'activité nationale, qui vit en grande partie de
la production industrielle, a suivi le développe-
ment de celle-ci. D'ailleurs la concentration des
capitaux est telle au Japon, dans les mains des deux
prineipaux tru-ts Mitsui ei Mitsubischi. que la
phipart des grandes aftfaire sont contrôlées par
les mèmes inuividus et sont conduites selon les
mêmes principes. Tandis que les industriels, après
avoir attiré les fournisseurs anéricains ou occi-
dentaux, les ont servilement copiés puis éliminés,
les commerçants conquièrent petit à petit toutes les
places sur tous les marchés, avec une ténacité, une
patience, des métlhodes qui en font des concur-
rents dangereux. On retrouve dans cette volonté
d'expansion et d'accaparement ui peu de la théo-
rie politique du " panjaponisme ". Pour ne par-
ler que du commerce français au Japon, repré-
senté par quelques importateurs ou exportateurs
qui se cramponnent tant bien que mal, on peut
prévoir, si des interventions énergiques ne se
produisent pas, qu'il passe:: bientôt tout entier
entre les mains de courtiers japonais. Cela n'aurait
qu'un inconvénient relatif si ces mêmes courtiers
'étaient trop souvent représentants à la fois de
narques françaises et de marques étrangères con-
urrentes. Si je pouvais, à co sujet. donner à mes
ompatriotes quelques conseils, je les mettrais en
arde contre la politique de facilité ou de paresse,
n les encourageant à faire défendre ou surveiller
eurs intérêts au Japon par des Français. Le sacri-
ce budgétaire qu'ils s'imposeraient serait large-
ent compensé par l'augmentation de eur chiffre
affaires. Ceci dit en passant, donnons quelques
xemples de l'inipérialisme économique japonais
de quelques procédés qui, s'ils se perpétuaient,
useraient au monde entier de sérieux désagré-
ents.
Récemment, à propos du renouvellement du con-
ngent annuel de saumon fumé exporté du Japon
r la France, la chambre de commerce française
Yokohama, dont je reparlerai, a renouvelé au-
s de nos agents diplomatiques, consulaires et
mmerciaux, une vigoureuse protestation qu'il
vient de compléter. Il apparaitrait naturel que
contrôle des expéditions de saumon contin-
ntées soit effectué au départ du Japon sur
ance par une autorité française, le consul ou
ttaché commercial, ou par un organisme dans
uel les intérêts français seraient représentés.
n'en est rien. C'est une association purement
ponaise qui exerce le contrôla et délivre les auto-
ations d'exporter, en favorisant comme bien l'on
nse ses nationaux. Il y a quelques semaines, un
rares acheteurs français de la place se pré-
tait au délégué de l'association pour obtenir
ence d'expédier plusieurs mlliers de caisses.
lui répondit que, pour l'année en cours, le con-
gent était épuisé. Cependant, notre homme avait
se procurer dans les compagnies de navigation
tonnage réel exporté, prouvant qu'il s'en fallait
moins de 25 0/0 que la limite légale fût atteinte.
afondu par ces prauves, confus aussi, mais tou-
rs souriant, comme savent l'étre les Japonais
me quand iis sont dans le plus cruel embarras,
élégué, aveo mille excuses, donna l'autorisation
icitée. Je laisse à d'autres le sain de tirer la
on de cet incdent siguificatif.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.97)
 — LE TEMPB. — 29 novembre 1939
PROBLEMES D'EXTRÉME-ORIENT
Si l'armée japonaise en Mandchourt
a force agissante ou qui voudrait l'etre,
Mandchoukouo la force d'inertie, il est um
sième élément puissant celui-là et fortement 
tallé autour duquel gravite depuis de longu 
La Mandchourie
nées l'activité économique tout au moins dan lo
sud du territoire. J'ai nommé le South Mamoh
ria Railway, vaste entreprise ferroviaire et
III
ciété à caractère industriel et commercial
pour équiper en voies de communication 
(De notre envoyé spécial)
ritoire à bail du Kwantung et la zone d'inffumee
Hsin-King, novembre.
laissée aux Japonais de Dairen à Changchun 
Le moment est venu de pénétrer avec pru-
S. M. R. ajoute à ses capacités de transportour
dence sur un terrain excessivement délicat, c'est-
celles d'exploitant. Doté d'un capital important,
à-dire dans le domaine où évoluent les « officiels
détenteur de riches concessions minières, il 
japonais » en Mandchourie, et d'aborder, comme on
tissé sur la Mandchourie un vaste réseau d'af-
dit ici, le « japanese side ».Il faut. pour bien com-
faires auquel l'occupation va donner encore plus
prendre la situation que je vais exposer avc le
d'ampleur. C'est lui qui, en accord avec l'état
maximum d'objectivité, considérer que l'activité
major, va construire les nouvelles voles fer-
japonaise dans le Mandchoukouo s'exerce sur deux
rées à caractère plus stratégique qu'économique
plans et avec des éléments différents. D'une part.
qui faciliteront la pénétration dans les provinces
l'armée d'oecupation avec son général en chef
du nord-est. C'est lui qui prendra en gérance,
a sa vie propre ne dépendant que du grand état-
après rachat ou mainmise, le chemin de fer de
major et virtuellement du gouvernement de
l'Est-Chinois. c-t pour lui qu'on veut aménan
Tokio par le truchement du mini-tère de la
ger face à Vladivostok le port de Raschin, aved
l'espoir d'en faire la tête de ligne du Transsibé-
guerre; d'autre part, les postes prineipaux dans
le gouvernement tocal sont occupés par des ci-
rien dont le contrôle extrême-oriental serait ainsi
vils qui sont à la fois en liaison avee l'armée, le
enlevé aux Russes. Qu'on retienne bien, en pas-
gouvernement métropolitain e individuellenent.
sant, ces deux causes de conflit qui-m'autorisent
comme on le verra, avec les milieux daffaires aux-
à dire que tout ce qu'on éerit en France et dont
quels sont inféodés les partis politiques exelus
on sourit en A-ie sur les rapports cordiaux en-
du pouvoir.
tre Russes, Chinois et Japonais sont pures fan-
taisies. Cest encore au S. M. R. que reviendra
sans doute la mission d'exploiter les mines ac-
tuellement en prospection.
Disciple et compagnon d'armes du ministre de
Pour donner une idée de son potentiel indus-
la guerre Araki qui règne à Tokio. le général Koiso,
triel et de la redoutable concurrence qu'il ap-
qui commande ea chef larmée du Kwantung, regne
portera sur les marchés mondiaux dans quelques
en Mandchourie. Son quartier générad de Hin-
années je citerai les chiffres recueillis au cours
King est le creuset où non seuiement sélaborent
de ma Visite aux mines de charbon de Fuchun
les plans de campagne, mais où nai--ent les
qu'il exploite a 35 kilomètres de Moukden. Pro-
concepts politiques et économiques qui doivent
duction annuelle réduite à 7 millions de ton-
faire du Mandchoukouo l'Eden du continent asia-
res mais suseeptible d'étre doublée ; quatre puits,
tique.
deux carrières. 30.o0o ouvriers; au fond de sa
Figure intéressante par son modelé tout en hos-
galerie. l'homme à la pioche travaille dix heures
ses, le général donne à ses interlocuteurs une m-
par jour pour un salaire de 60 sen, soit 3 franes
pression de vivacité intellectuelle et de force qui
contraste avec la moyenne japonaise. On sent en
de notre monnaie.
Pour peu que se réalise le bloc économique nip-
l'écoutant exposer ses théories vibrer en lui une
pon-mandchou préconisé par les industriels japo-
âme de constructeur où les idées neuves foison-
nais sur la base d'une expíoitation rationnelle de la
nent tandis que l'homme parait inquiet et ner-
Mandchourie, considérée uniquement comme four-
veux de ne pouvoir les réaliser sur-le-chanip.
nisseur de matières premières à des consortiums
Naturellement le chef de l'armée d'occupation est
imétropohtans, on peut juger de l'appoint for-
d'abord un militaire dans la tradition nationale.
midable que pourrait donner au Japen l'opé-
Son évangile est le rescrit impérial qu'il cite et
ration déclenchée dans la nuit du 18 septem-
commente au début de toute conversation avec
bre 1931. Mais le conditionnel n'est pas ici sans
l'étranger. C'est par son esprit qu'il justifle l'opé-
valeur. Toute médaille a son revers : je me borno
ration dont il assure l'exécution et destinée en
à signaler les difficultés de la pácification, l
premier lieu à redonner a l'armée tout son pres-
charge budgétaire que la. Mandchourie représen-
tige. Cependant ce hors-d'œuvre de circonstance
tera pendant quelques années encore. l'imposs-
vite expédlé, le général Koiso entre avec passión
bilité Je trouver les 10,000-familles de culons que
dans le vif d'un sujet où nous le suivrons d'au-
l'armée voudrait installer dans le pays. L'insu-
tant plus volontiers qu'il ne cache rien de ses ob-
laire nippon, si paradoxal que cela puisse paraf-
jectifs. En bref l'état-major veut mettre en va-
tre dans un pays surpeuplé, répugne à se fixer
leur toutes les possibilités mandchoues sans tenir
hors de son habitat surtout quand celui qu'on
compte de la concurrence certaine que ce déve-
lui propose a des hivers rigoureux qui couvrent
loppement pourrait apporter à certaines branches
d'un manteau de glace les plaines gercées de la
de la production métropolitaine concentrée aux
Mandchourle. Enfin, à l'impossibilité d'assimiler
mains d'une oligarchie financière dont il convient
la population chinoise s'ajoutent les risques cons-
de détruire les privilèges.
tants do conflits avec un voisin dont le potenti
Cependant, si la Mandchourie est riche d'espé-
guerrier augmente chaque jour.
rances, si elle offre avec son sol fertile, son sous-
Il fut une époque pas très lointaine encore où
sol abondamment pourvu, sa population nom-
les prophètes onnonçaient une guerre inévitable
breuse, des éléments rémunérateurs, elle n'a pas
dans le Pacifique. Je ne voudrais pas cé
le capital indispensable pour mettre en route la
cette manie facile qui consiste à valicmer ma
machine. Cest le cas d'ailleurs de tous les pays
j'ose pourtant écrire en toute connaissance
neufs, c'est le cas de la Mandchourie, c'est le cas
cause que la Mandchourie pourrait bien,
aussi de la Chine malgré son indépendance politi-
un temps prochain, devenir encore une fols
que. La recherche de ce capital est donc une des
terre de rencontres sanglantes.
principales sinon l'umique préoccupation du géné-
al Koiso, dont tous les projets sont dominés par
Rosnt POULA
'souci.
« Nous aurions besoin, in'a-t-il conflé, d'un mil-
lard de yan à dépenser an dix ans de façon à
transformer complétement lo pays. ss0 millions se-
réient consserés à l'établissement de nouvelles
vcies feerées, à la conetruction de routes, à l'am.
Horation des voles fluviales, à la création et
l'agrandissement de ports, s00 sutres serviraient
à ouvrir des mines (éharbon, or, pétrole), 100 se-
ralion japonst 100 1 développer l'agriotiture
hats qui, né dans les bureaux
moins d'un bouleversement
espus son contrôle.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.95)
ie capital indispensable pour mettre an route a
machine. C'est le cas d'allleurs de tous les pays
celte manie faclle qui conoisté 
neufs, c'est le cas de la Mandchourie, c'est le cas
aussi de la Chine malgré son indépendance politi-
cause que la Mandchourie pourrall biea
que. La recherche de ce capital est donc une des
un temps prochain, devenir encoré u
principales sinon l'unique préoccupation du géné-
terre do rencontres sanglantes.
ral Koiso, dont tous les projets sont dominés par
ROBnT POUL
ce souci.
« Nous aurions besoin, m'a-t-il conflé, d'un mil-
llard de yen a dépenser en dix ans de façon à
transformer camplètement le pays. 350 millions st-
raient consacrés à l'établissement de nouvelles
vcies ferrées, à la construction de routes, à l'amé-
lioration des voies fluviales, à la création et
l'agrandissement de ports, 300 autres serviraient
gration japonalse, 1o0 a développer l'agriculture
.Ato
soumis à revision.nq
de l'armée, ne verra, à mi  n i
politique total, le jour que sous su
Reste toutefois la question de savoir qui four-
nira les fonds. Sans doute les riches trusts métro-
politains souhaiteraient-ils participer avec leurs
reserves à la mise en valeur mais les militaires
sont jusqu'ici rebelles à toute collaboration. Ils
ne veulent pas qu'eucore une fois une opération
guerrière effectuée par eux, payée de leur sang.
proflte aux seuls « marchands ». Ils ne veulent
pas d'une association d'intérêts avec les soutiens
do leurs adversaires politiques. S'ils acceptaient
un prêt ce serait sans conditions et cn repoussant
toutes les suggestions de la flnance japonaise. Ceci
les amène done à rechercher le concours de l'étran-
ger et plus particulièrement de la France qui de-
puis la faillite du dollar américain fait en Ex-
trème-Orient figure de pays riche. Je ne dévoi-
lerai pas un secret en rapportant qu'en juin 1932
le gouverrement japonais fit proposer au gouver-
nement français une combinaison d'intéréts en
Mandchourie. Cette proposition ayant été éludée,
on a cherché d'autres formules, en effrant à l'in-
destrie privée de participer à certaines entrepri-
ses tout en se réservant de revenir plus fard à la
première solution. Parallèlement, le choix comme
conseillers privés du Mandehoukouo de l'Améri-
cain Bronson Rea et de l'Angiais Edwards a ét
dicté par lespoir de trouver peut-lre a New-York
et à Londres des ressources compdémentaires. En
résumé il apparait que larmée ne vent à aucon
prix passer compromis avec les marchands ja-
p nais de crédit et qu'elle met toute son esp
rance dans l'étranger avec certainenmeni l'arrière-
pensée d'entraîner ainsi les puissances rétives à
reconnaftre offüciellement le Mandchoukouo et à
justifler une opération dont elle a pris l'initia-
tive.
Traversant la rue, c'est-à-dire quittant le
quartier général de Hsin-King, j'ai touché en
face les éléments civils un peu plus fermés a
l'interview que les militaires et pour cause. S'ils
relèvent en effet administrativement du Mand-
choukouo et travaillent pour lui, leur situation
dépend pour beaucoup de l'état-major. C'est lui
qui dans son désir de caser de nombreux jeunes
gens diplômés des universités japonaises leur a
fait largement ouvrir les portes des ministères
et offices créés dans la capitale. Hatons-nous de
dire que ces collaborateurs instruits mais inex-
périmentés sont voués corps et ame au mouve-
ment national-socialiste et que ce n'est pas
auprès d'eux que j'ai relevé une opposition lar-
vée au programme Koiso. Par contre les tétes
de pont dans les mêmes ministères sont occupées
par des fonctionnaires d'age venus de Tokio où
leur carrière s'est faite sous le signe des partis
politiques qul, avant le 15 mai 1932, selon les ma-.
jorités électorales formaient des gouvernements
sur la base constitutionnelle. Leur enthousiasme
pour les théories défendues par l'état-major et
pour ses plans est rigoureusement oficiel.
L'un d'entre eux capendant poussé dans sas
derniers retranchements ne m'a pas caché ses
sentiments Comma la Jul damandais dans qualles
conditions le capital étranger pourratt s'intésée
ser à l'avenir éeonomique de la Mandchourie, aà
je devais conseiller à mes compatriotes d'y venir
prospecter, il me répondit avec cependant une
dertaine géne :
« L'avenir immédiat de ce pays n'est pas asses
sür pour des investissements.»
Mon aterlocuteur de Hain-King appartient a
parti seiyukal dont sans aucun doule le met
Éordre est de détourner la fnance étrangère du
marohé mandohou. On espére ainsi qu'en in de
compte l'armée, contrainte de trouver des fonds,
sera obligée de collaborer avec le capitalisme
Japonais et que celui-ci pourra assigner à la
production du nouvel Etal protégé des limitea
en conformité avec les intéréts métropolitainal
sauvegardés. Quol qu'll en soit, sette oppositiom
de tendances su sein même de l'armature japor
 cause de falhiasss

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
ronte aux seuls a marchanda ». Ils ne veulent
pas d'une associatlon d'intérèts aveo les soutions
de leurs adveranires politiques. S'ils acceptaient
un prêt co serait sans conditions et en repoussant
toutes les suggestions de la Anance japonatse. Ceol
les amène donc à rechercher le concours de l'étran-
ger et plus particulièrement do la France qui de-
puis la failite du dollar américain fait en Ex-
trême-Orient gure do pays riche. Je ne dévol-
lerai pas un secret en rapportant qu'en juin 1982
le gouvernement japonais flt proposer au gouver-
nement français une combinaison d'intérets en
Mandchourie. Cette proposition ayant été éludée,
n a cherché d'autres formules, en offrant à l'in-
dustrie privée de participer à certaines entrepri-
ses tout en se réservant de revenir plus tard à la
première solution. Parallèlement, le choix comme
aonseillers privés du Mandchoukouo de l'Améri-
cain Bronson Rea et de l'Anglais Edwards a été
dicté par l'espoir de trouver peut-etre à New-York
et à Londres des ressources complémentaires. En
résumé il apparalt que l'armée ne veut à aucun
prix passer compromis avec les marchands ja-
panais de crédit et qu'elle met toute son espé-
rance dans l'étranger avec certainement l'arrière-
pensée d'entrafner ainsi les puissances rétives à
reconnaftre oflciellement le Mandchoukouo et à
justifler une opération dont elle a pris l'initia-
tive.
Traversant la rue, c'est-à-dire quittant le
quartier général de Hsin-King. jai touché en
face les éléments civils un peu plus fermés a
Pinterview que les militaires et pour cause. Sils
relèvent en effet administrativement du Mand-
choukouo et travaillent pour lui, leur situation
dépend pour beaucoup de l'état-major. C'est lui
qui dans son désir de caser de nombreux jeunes
gens diplomés des universités japonaises leur a
fait largement ouvrir les portes des ministères
et offices créés dans la capitale. Hâtons-nous de
dire quo ces collaborateurs instruits mais inex-
périmentés sont voués corps et ame au mouve-
ment national-socialiste et que ce n'est pas
auprès d'eux que jai relevé une opposition lar-
vée au programme Koiso. Par contre les têtes
de pont dans les méme; ministères sont oecupées
par des fonctionnaires d'áge venus de Tokio où
leur carrière sest faite sous le signe des partis
politiques 'qui, avant le 15 mai 1932, selon les ma-
jorités électorales formaient des gouvernements
sur la base constitutionnelle. Leur enthousiasme
pour les théories défendues par l'état-major et
pour ses plans est rigoureusement officiel.
L'un d'entre eux cependant poussé dans ses
derniers retranchements ne m'a pas caché ses
sentiments. Comme je. lui demandais dans quelles
conditions le capital étranger pourrait s'intéres-
ser à l'avenir économique de la Mandchourie, si
jo devais conseiller à mes compatriotes d'y venir
prospecter, il me répondit avec cependant une
oertaine gêne :
« L'avenir immédiat de ce pays n'est pas assez
sür pour des investissements."
Mon interlocuteur de Hsin-King appartient au
parti seiyukaï dont sans aucun doute le mot
d'ordre est de détourner la finance étrangère du
marché mandchou. On espère ainsi qu'en fin de
compte l'armée, contrainte de trouver des fonds,
sera obligée de collaborer avec le capitalisme
japonais et que celui-ci pourra assigner à la
production du nouvel Etat protégé des limites
on conformité aveo les intéréts métropolitains
sauvegardés. Quoi qu'il en soit, cette opposition
de tendances au sein même de l'armature japo-
naise en Mandohourie est une cause de faiblesse.
Elle sourit aux observateurs rusés et patient
que sont les Chinois, j'entends ceux qui ne sont
pas aveuglés comme M. Henri Pu Yi et ses col
laborateurs intimes et encore ne suis-je pas cer-
tain que ceux-ci même n'en fassent point leur
proft. Elle retarde incontestablemept la réalise-
tion des projets de mise en valeur.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.96)
X
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 5, 1934.
ERD：
207:
SKH
Tokyo's despatch No. 609 of Decem-
ber 14, 1933, contains some very inter-
esting suggestions. The despatch reports
rather briefly on the resignation of
Matsuoka from the Seiyukai and on his
call for the submergence of party strife
to fece the "momentous time". It then
discusses the question of the readiness
of the Japanese for government by parlia-
mentary methods. The despatch points out
that it is the Japanese custom, both in
politics and business, to rely on the
advice and guidance of elders; and the
belief is expressed that the Japanese
Government requires something in the
nature of a balance, "such as a Shogun or
a group analogous to the Genro". The sug-
gestion is nade that perhaps Matsuoka had
this idea in mind in calling for the dis-
solution of political parties.
Saionji, who is referred to in the
report, was never one of the real Elder
Statesmen. He has no great force and has
never attempted to give leadership. He
is, however, extremely astute and he is
well

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
well-informed. He has, therefore, made
it his practice, when acting as an oracle,
to act only as a mirror of public opinion
and to give such advice to the Emperor
which he believes to be the concensus of
opinion. For example, it is understood
on good authority that Saionji advised the
Emperor to sanction Japan's withdrawal
from the League, largely because of the
popular demand for withdrawal, although
he personally did not approve.
The Japanese Government functioned
fairly satisfactorily for ten years or
more without a real Elder Statesman, and
while the need for a "balance-wheel" can
be understood in the present circumstances,
it is not believed that if and when normal
conditions are restored a body of this
sort would be tolerated.
The principal obstruction to a well-
ordered parliamentary system in Japan is,
of course, the lack of consciousness of
the rights of the individual and of popular
initiative, due to the persistence of the
feudal idea that government is bestowed
on the people from ahove.
lach
9A
EHD:HZD

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 14, 1933.
No. 609.
SUBJECT:
The Resignation of Mr. Matsuoka from
F/ESP
the Seiyukai Party and the Unpopularity
of Party Government in Japan.
894.0
XAib
TE
Division of
894.00/498
JAN 3 1934
Department of State
For Dicribution-Check
Vc
No
Grade
To
For
In U S.A.
ON1
2x2
M/D
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
O.N.I. AND M. I. D.
JAN 9-1934
Sir:
FILED
The prestige of the Japanese political parties
and the hopes for an early return to party government
have received a setback in the resignation of Mr. Yo-
suke Matsuoka from the Seiyukai Party and from the Im-
perial Diet. The severance of Mr. Matsuoka's ties with
his party was emphasized by a statement which he simul-
taneously issued to the press, in which he proclaimed
anti-parliamentary and reactionary views such as are
popular with a large section of the Japanese public.
Mr.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Mr. Matsuoka became a wellknown figure abroad as a
result of his vigorous defence of the Japanese Manchurian
policy befo e the Assembly of the League of Nations. At
the same time his popularity at home reached great heights.
His fellow-countrymen looked upon him as a modern Horatius
defending his people against the onslaughts of the world.
His arrival home was the occasion for a public patriotic
demonstration of a size seldom seen in Japan.
After the welcoming ceremonies were over, little was
seen or heard of Mr. Matsuoka for many months. It looked
as if his star was on the wane. However, as he is generally
credited with being ambitious for his own advancement, as
well as intelligent, it is more probable that he was waiting
for what he considered to be the proper moment to appear
before the public again. Having been a reputed
11bera1
for many years in the past, but more recently the staunch
defender of the militaristic Manchurian policy, it is be-
lieved by some people that he has been uncertain which
course would be the more advantageous for him to follow in
the future. Apparently he has now decided to make the most
of his prestige which he gained with the reactionary ele-
ments while he was at Geneva. His resignation from the Sei-
yukai is taken to mean that he does not expect an early re-
turn of party government; that he expects a more reactionary
cabinet to follow the present one and hopes to become a
member of it. Some say that he is too late; that he has
been quiet too long.
At any rate his resignation from his party and from his
geat

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
seat as a Seiyukai member of the Diet made headline news
on December 10. He simultaneously issued a statement in
which he denounced government by political parties and
advocated a "superparty" government. The more important
portions of the statement are as follows:
" At this momentous time when the nation stands
at a crossroad, and will either rise or fall, it
is essential above all things to bring together
in unity all the abilities of the people, there-
by enabling the nation to act as one man.... that
the national crisis may be surmounted. I believe
it necessary that all political controversies and
class strife should be eliminated.... parties im-
pair the harmony of the nation and destroy the ac-
cord of the people.
n
Accordingly it is my earnest hope that the
seasoned and skilled men will free themselves
from the fixed restraints an return to a purely
superparty position. From this viewpoint I urge
that the parties be dissolved.....Western style
party government does not conform to the condi-
tions of our country nor the character of our
people.....To wait for the political parties to
improve is like waiting for pigs to fly......
Dissolution of the political parties does not
mean the end of constitutional government in all
its phases. On the contrary I believe that con-
stitutional government adaptable to our country
can be effected only through the unification of
the nation as one man, without any opposition
between the parties or among factions.
n
The time has come when the Japanese race must
carry out its important mission in the interests
of peace..... As a first step I advocate the dis-
solution of parties."
There have been extensive press comments on the above
statement. The papers have expressed sympathy with Mr.
Matsuoka but have demanded further explanation of his ob-
jective. His denunciation of the parties and his advo-
cacy of constitutional government are termed inconsistent.
Several papers have seized the occasion to defend the
much maligned Imperial Diet. They have argued that in a
nation of sixty million people there must be differences
of

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
of opinion; that it is impossible to congeive that the peo-
ple shoul: be united as one man in expressing their opinions;
and that the Diet with its party alignments does reflect
public opinion. They point out that the existence of the
parties does not prevent cooperation on a non-partizan
basis, as is shown by the present cabinet.
The general unpopularity of party government in Japan,
of which one has heard so much during the last two years, is
due partly to the corruption of so many of the politicians.
The views of the military on this matter have received much
publicity. The best that can be said for the Army as a
governing force is that the mass of its leaders appear so
far to be honest and sincere. This makes a strong appeal to
the mass of Japanese. However, there are signs that a con-
stantly increasing group of army officers are quite satis-
fied with their position in the present government. They
have great influence over every department but little res-
ponsibility, except for the War Department. Therefore their
efforts at the present time are aimed at preserving the ad-
vantage they have gained.
On the other hand, the younger element of the Army and
many of the reactionary groups continue to preach theories
of government which are naive and immature. They advocate
a return to the "Imperial Way". This is a term difficult
to define but it appears that they envisage a return to di-
rect rule by the Emperor. They fail to recognize the fact
that the Emperor would under their proposed system be brought
into all the political squabbles that would certainly develop,
and

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
and eventually lose his prestige in the eyes of the people.
Many students of contemporary history, both Japanese
and foreign, believe that the basic trouble is that Japan is
not yet ready for Parliamentary government. It is question-
ed whether the Japanese are psychologically and temperamen-
tally suited for it. For instance, the members of the Diet
appear to be incapable of debating public questions as in-
telligently and calmly as is done in English-speaking
countries. Moreover, they find it difficult to be dignified
in defeat. Those who beaten in the voting "lose face", which
is hard on any oriental, even a Japanese. Every organiza-
tion in Japan, commercial or otherwise, has its advisers,
who "arrange" matters of great importance for the ort: 1-
zation. Their wisdom is recognized by the more active mem-
bers and their advice is heeded. In the realm of government,
a similar situation existed in the past. From the termina-
tion of the military dictatorship under the rule of the Sho-
guns, until recent years, the Japanese had the Genro, or
Elder Statesmen. These men had the confidence of the Emperor
and of the Cabinet and guided the nation in its development.
However, Prince Saionji is the only one left and he does not
now exercise the power wielded formerly by his colleagues.
Many of those who are familiar with Japanese history
believe that the Government of Japan cannot be carried on
effectiyely without some balance-wheel, such as a Shogun or
a group analogous to the Genro. They believe that one of
these institutions or something which is a mixture of the
two must sooner or later once more find a place in the
Government

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.96)
Government. It is possible that Mr. Matsuoka had some
such idea in mind when he made the comments quoted above.
Respectfully yours,
.
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
SWW:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.80)
er 14,10.
The Best chasion of tr. atoushe foen the
Seiyasai Party and phe Unsopalariky
Party Goverament La Japap.
Dommery:
Mr. Yosuce Dasomake, smo Setopame Japemte
Wations, has wccemtly saimad son siderable
publieity by resigming fren shs Beiyakak
Party and from nás aeae in the bles, and,
simalsaneously, issming a ststemens do-
nouncing party government fgr Japen.
Part: Covertuent is at resent vory mape
sular im Japen, dwe seemingly to the ear-
ru tlom snt ixainearity of she pelisiciamse
The youmger element in the srmy and the re-
eesionaries advocate a returm te She "Im-
perial Way", or ireet rule by the Kmperome
Meay students of Japanese history belleve
that the Japanese are inespable of sarrying
eessfully and that that the soumtry meeds
1
bosh will devolage

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.74)
So.os.
suracts The Resignasion of r. Masmke trén
the Geáywkai Porty spt tan Bapepalurat
of Party Govermaent ln Japea.
The Honorable
The Becrotary of State,
sarhington.
sir8
The prestige of the Jaganése pelitieal parsies
and the hopes for en early retarm te party govermsemt
bete received a seobeer in the restguatiem of aty to-
make latauaka tron the Sasyutai Prsty ame fres the t
periat let. She seversmse of Zr. Maate tt si
bis party mas aphaséd by a statet whi h t
ypr
ey  rrv 
popte i a      p

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.79)
t ame time hispoply at h
Ris fellos-countryme lobed mron ni as a m
del nains his people egainst the onsleughts of the woride
ais erriv:l home was the ooession for e pablie poarleaty
demonstration of & sime selrom seen in Japene
Ster the wsleoming ceremoniss were r, itl
me or hear or r. Mateuoks for any conthse It loome
ma if mis ster e on the wane. Rowever, as he  gomally
eraditer sith being smbitious for is own advspeemont, as
well ss intalligent, it is more prebahle thet he me maitins
for wrat be ocral dare to be the ropar mamont to appeer
before the publie ag in. Having been a reputed stherel
fur any zeare in the past, put more roarmsly the sreon
darender as the mtlitaristie zamaturtem paliay, it ao
lseved by some poople thas be nas brem wmoustatm
wolbhe t

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.84)
y
porsigs as the statement aze ss fallouss
As this momentous time shen the natiom seaads
at a wrosarond, and will sither rlee or fall, is
in mity all the abilities or the people, ther
bybing the ation y  me ma m
the meti mal crisie vay be swrmountet. I beliovo
it meeeseery that all politieal controversies snd
elams mtrife shonld be eliminsted.... perties im-
puir the harmony af the netlon and destroy the as-
oeed f the poople.
s lccordimgly it is my earnost bepe that the
seasoned sns skilled wen will free chersolves
from the fized rest si-ts an tetumm to a puegty
soperpsrty poaitiod. From this vlewpoimt I arge
that the parties be risselwed.....Westerm ssyle
party sovernment coes not comform to the momdl-
füss of eur eoumtry nor the character of our
people.s...Te wait for the political parties to
improve ls line waitimg for pigs to fly...se
Diaselution of the pelitioal parties dees met

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.77)
c  with se pay i d
 paton They point  tha te ettae t
parsies does mot revent sooperatlon n a mon-pestism
basis, ax ss showm by the present cablmet.
Poe ceneral unpopulsrity of party coverament ln Varems
of mn  a eare sue dins the lst year
due parsly to the corruptlon of so wamy or the politieiomm
The rlove of th. alilsary on thin sotter a ve cecoived mo
putlleity. Te bet tht n be ts fo the ay s
gomarning forer is thet the case of lis lee ere cppeer mo
far to be beneet ane sincare. This wakes a mtrond agpeal to
the mess of Jepmaese. Nowever, there are signe that a pon
stantly Ineroesirs ar up ' ray arfieurs ur puite atts
fres with thet: osition in the Ireseat ermt they
bave reot luflvenee ever every dapartons tut ltt te ree

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.79)
ovehee 
But yet zeucy for Parllomer tary sovernments It dn muesth
ed chaher che Japanee eleglmlly nd 
tlly suitad for it. Yor itande, the mbers or the Met
appear to bo incujible oi cevasins pablie quentlomr is la
telligently an: a lmly as   eme in Engligh-speakins
coumtrles. Morcover. chey in it vifrieult to be dimisied
In defezt. Thuse who besten in the vosing "lese f wet, whidm
is hard cn zay eriental, oven a Japapese. Every orgmiza-
tion i Japen, comverciel or ot rriss, har its sdvisers,
who "arrsnro" matters of grest laportimce for t's orgunt-
sation Their misden is rropgnimed by th more active 
bere cad thair advice ls heded. In the realm ef severament
h
sin or th litary cietsotaty under e tule or hee
n,l  h  

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.84)
Pespectrully yourss
Joseph C. Gres.
800.
Gapy  Lexat on, Pelpine.
 copy of
the sigred prigt

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatch No. 609.
Date: December 14, 1933.
COM.
Subject:
The Resignation of Mn Masguoka from the
Seiyukai Party and the Unpopularity of
Party Government in Japan.
Summary:
Mr. Yosuke Matsuoka, who defended Japan's
Manchurian policy before the League of
Nations, has recently gained considerable
publicity by resigning from the Seiyukai
Party and from his seat in the Diet, and,
simultaneously, issuing a statement de-
nouncing party government for Japan.
Party Government is at present very unpo-
pular in Japan, due seemingly to the cor-
ruption and insincerity of the politicians.
The younger element in the Army and the re-
actionaries advocate a return to the "Im-
perial Way", or direct rule by the Emperor.
Many students of Japanese history believe
that the Japanese are incapable of carrying
on the parliamentary form of government suc-
cessfully and that what the country needs
is a system analogous either to the old
Shogunate or to the Genro. Possibly some-
thing new combining characteristics of them
both will develop.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 13, 1934.
U:
Mr. Phillips.
I would suggest that
Mr. Grew's despatch No. 608
of December 12, 1933, might
to advantage be brought to
the notice of the President.
nat
BD: RY

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.90)
her. Trewi
despatch ho. 60s
sent to the
Proeident
Jan. 15, 1934

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 11, 1934.
The American Ambassador at Tokyo reports
in his despatoh No. 608 of December 12, 1933,
certain interesting statements made to him by
the Netherlands Minister at Tokyo on certain
foreign policies of the Japanese Government.
The Netherlands Minister, who has served
in Japan in various capacities for a period of
about twenty years, attached great importance
to the so-called Pan-Asiatic movement, and he
is inclined to believe that the plan to
organize the Asiatic countries into a group
under the leadership of Japan has considerable
support in Japan. He was of the opinion that
the Japanese Foreign Minister is a staunch
supporter of the movement and that he is in
sympathy with Japan's expansionist ambitions.
Reports from American consular officers in
the Dutoh East Indies recently received by the
Department indicate that considerable apprehen-
sion is being felt by the Dutch authorities in
the Netherlands East Indies over the growing
popularity of the Japanese among the native
population. A prominent Dutoh official ex-
pressed in confidence to an American consular
officer

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
officer the belief that his Government would
not be able to rely upon the loyalty of the
natives in the event of serious difficulties
which the Netherlands Government might have
with the Japanese Government.
The Netherlands Minister was principally
preoccupied with the "crisis" which the
Japanese believe will confront their country
in 1935. The Minister pointed out to Mr. Grew
that although the Japanese Navy had been
relatively quiet during the critical period
of the Sino-Japanese conflict, it is now very
much to the front, as indicated by the large
appropriation allotted to it in the budget for
the coming fiscal year. As, in the opinion of
the Minister, there was little chanoe of Japan
securing naval parity with the United States
and Great Britain, he thought that there was
great risk of the Japanese seizing Guam and
the Philippine Islands. He did not believe
that the economic consequences of a war with
the United States would aot as a deterrent on
the Japanese Navy.
Commenting on the observations above
outlined of his Dutch colleague, Mr. Grew
stated that he was not inclined to dismiss the
views of an intelligent and conservative
observer. Nevertheless Mr. Grew does not
believe

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.74)
18
I thinh
the Pundat
shoed e
ti.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
believe that the present Japanese Foreign
Minister is a chauvinist, and he credits the
Foreign Minister with seeking to improve
relations with the United States and Great
Britain as well as with other foreign countrie
However, in Mr. Grew's opinion the Foreign
Minister may be regarded as an ardent
nationalist, and he points out that Mr.
Hirota could not remain in office unless he
were sympathetic with Japan's expansion in
Asia.
Mr. Grew concludes his despatoh by
expressing the need of approaching the coming
year with particular caution.
2
EHD/REK

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 12, 1933.
No. 608.
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Political Problems in the Far East
Japanese
Activities.
Fle
PH
FEB 26 1934
bi.. UF
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
THE UNDER SECRETARY
1. lAN 3 1934
H
6...
C
DEPARIMEN7 OESTATE
Bl
Copy Bo Pre 2.1/11/34
037
yetto Voleyo
894.00/49
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
5
JAN 8 1934
Depertmoat of State
No distribution  copuso
END
Confidential for the Secretary and Under Secretary.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir :
It is naturally my habit in Tokyo, as it has been
in other former posts, to keep in close touch with those
Confidential File
of my diplomatic colleagues whom I find by experience to
be well informed and to use their minds constructively
in diagnosing political situations and in trying to fore-
see future developments. Boiled down, the number of
such colleagues is painfully restricted, and lately the
arrival of several new Ambassadors and the absenceon
6
1ea
1934

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
leave of other chiefs of mission, has still further
limited the intelligence market where views, information
and ideas can profitably be exchanged.
Among the co1-
leagues with whom I maintain frequent contact and whose
information and opinion I find to be generally accurate
and intelligent is the Netherlands Minister, General
Pabst.
A former officer in the Dutch Army, he has been
Minister in Tokyo since 1923 and has therefore had longer
experience in Japan than any other chief of mission save
only the Belgian Ambassador, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps,
who came in 1921.
General Pabst possesses the phlegmatic
hard-headedness and common sense typical of the Dutch and
is not at all of the type prone to find sensation where
none exists.
Furthermore, as a former army officer and
Dutch Military Attaché here, he has intimate contacts with
the Japanese Army and Navy not generally enjoyed by the
diplomats in Tokyo. I mention these facts merely as
background in connection with various comments which he
has recently made to me in the course of our talks, as
set forth below.
General Pabst attaches much importance to the Pan-
Asiatic movement in Japan and to the steps being taken to
revise and develop the Great Asiatic Association which
790.94/35
were initiated last March (Embassy's despatches Nos. 3l1
790.9447
of March 7, 1933, and 468 of July 13, 1933). He believes
that Mr. Hirota, the present Minister for Foreign Affairs,
in spite of his policy of improving relations with foreign
countries, is a staunch supporter of the movement, in the
initiation of which he participated, and that he is in
General
sympathy with Japan's expansionist ambitions.
Pabst

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Pabst acknowledges, however, that he has no precise
evidence to support this theory. The idea, as he
understands it, is to develop an Asiatic League of
Nations composed of Japan, as the leader, and "Manchukuo",
China and Siam, in other words, a bloc of the yellow races
against the white. He said that he had recently been
looking at a new text-book just issued to the Japanese
primary schools in which is included a large map of the
.Far East, comprising Japan, "Manchukuo", Siberia, China,
French Cochin China, Siam, the Straits Settlements, the
Philippines and the Dutch East Indies, and that on this
map there are printed three flags, those of Japan, China
and "Manchukuo".
The American, French, British, Russian
and Dutch flags are conspicuous by their absence.
The
Minister said that he had observed a significant thing at
the funeral of Princess Asaka on November 12, namely that
in the row of funeral wreaths the place of honor was given
to the wreath from President Pu Yi, the second place of
honor was accorded to that of General Tinge, the Minister
of "Manchukuo" to Japan, while the wreath from the entire
Diplomatic Corps was relegated to third place.
His in-
terpreter had read the Japanese inscriptions.
The Minister's chief concern, however, is in connec-
tion with the "crisis" which the Japanese, especially the
Army and Navy leaders and the press, are continually harp-
ing upon as certain to occur in 1935. As regards the
factor of Soviet Russia in this impending crisis, he
entirely concurs in the views set forth in my strictly
confidential letter to the Under Secretary of State of
October 6, 1933. But what gives the Minister most concern
is the

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4-
is the possible attitude and action of the Japanese
Navy if and when it becomes evident in the exploratory
conversations preliminary to the Naval Conference in
1935 that Japan presumably cannot hope both for an
agreement according to Japan neval parity with the
United States and Creat Britain and at the same time
for a continuance of the restrictions against e forti-
fied naval base for the United States in the Philippines.
In the General's opinion there will be grave risk at that
time that the Japanese Navy will suddenly descend upon
and occupy Guam.
"You have noticed," General Pabst
seid in effect, "that the Navy is no longer content to
take a back seat as it was more or less obliged to do
during the campaign of the Army in Manchuria.
The Navy
is now forging to the front as is clearly evidenced by
the immense appropriations accorded it in the present
budget, partly at the expense of the Army, and in the
great naval maneuvres scheduled for next year, the first
time that such maneuvres have occurred in two consecutive
years.
If, at a given moment, the Navy feels that its
prestige is at stake and that the future safety, welfare
and ambitions of the country lie in its hands, it will
no more be subject to restraint by the civil Government
than was the Army in Manchuria in 193l." On my referring
to the utter stupidity and probable inconclusiveness of
an American-Japanese war to which such action would in-
evitably lead, and the tremendous loss to Japanese trade
which would result from such a war, the Minister said,
in effect:
"Don't for a moment think that questions of
economic or financial loss to the country would carry
any

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
一 5 -
any weight whatsoever with the Navy; the present budget
is already likely to bring the country perilously near
to financial disester in future, but the Army and Navy
go cheerfully ahead with their plans as if the country's
financial status is a matter with which they are not
concerned and cannot afford to be bothered, and that
economically Japan could get along without America some-
how or other if she had to do so. Furthermore from the
military and naval point of view, an American offensive
would be a negligible factor, because they hold that no
American fleet could effectively operate in Japanese
waters so far from its Hawaiian base and with its lines
of communication liable to be intercepted.
Once in
possession of the Philippines, with unrestricted naval
building in view and having eliminated the dreaded threat
of an American naval base in eastern waters, Japan believes
that she could disregard the United States and proceed with
her Asiatic ambitions.
The next step would be the approp-
riation of New Guinea which offers a considerable extent
of territory for colonization and would, to a certain
extent, solve the immediate problem of Japanese emigration."
The foregoing is not a precise quotation of General
Pabst's remarks but represents closely the general trend
of his ideas as he expressed them in our last conversation.
There is no doubt that he has the future safety of the
Dutch East Indies constantly in mind, of which the future
safety of the Philippines is a corollary. He alluded with
emphasis to the fact that the Japanese had recently in-
vited a delegation of natives from Java to visit Japan,
with a view to broadening the Japanese market in cheap
cotton

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
cotton and other goods in the East Indies, and that
this delegation is now here.
After a stay of but eighteen months in Japan I
should be loath to characterize as fantastic the con-
sidered opinions of an intelligent and conservative ob-
server with ten years' experience of this country and
its people.
We have already seen the sort of action
of which an unrestrained and domineering army is capable.
We have had ample evidence that in this country the un-
expected can always happen.
In previous despatches I
have pointed out the uneasiness with which certain of the
Japanese regard the year 1935-1936, and the determination
to alter the present naval ratios.
The prestige of the
Japanese Navy has for a time been eclipsed by the spot-
light in which the Army has moved during the past two
years.
Prestige is a powerful factor in the Orient.
So far as the present Foreign Minister is concerned,
it is safe to say that he is not a chauvinist, that he
believes it in the best interests of Japan to be on
cordial terms with all foreign countries, especially the
United States, China and Great Britain, and that he does
not believe in provoking war in any quarter.
.He is
therefore steadily working to develop better relations
abroad because he believes that Japan can carry through
her program far more readily and effectively in an at-
mosphere of friendship than in one of hostility with other
nations.
At the same time, he is what might be called an
ardent nationalist.
His views, from all that I can gather,
are that politically, economically and culturally, Japan
can

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
can prove herself the leading nation in Asia.
The
recent growth of Japanese trade throughout the Far East
naturally gives added prestige to the country.
.Mr.
Hirota is undoubtedly sympathetic with Japanese develop-
ment, and will give what encouragement and help he can
to any movements which tend to enhance the country's
position. He could not hold office on any other terms.
I am unable to state to what extent he approves of the
recent adventures in Manchuria. Here again he must, if
he is to remain in office, accept the si tuation as he
finds it, a fait accompli which he is estopped from
criticizing adversely.
To sum up, the Netherlands Minister, an experienced
and conservative observer, believes that the year 1935 is
likely to produce in fact the crisis which is now being
freely predicted in theory, and that the Japanese Navy
at that time is fully capable of taking radical action
such as the Army has already taken in Manchuria.
Having in mind the various points which I have
mentioned in this despatch, it behooves us to approach
the year 1935 in all wakefulness.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
800
JCG:1
(No foreign distribution)
I copy drstraynal
3-9-34~h

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
FAR EASDERN AFFAID
Wy dear ur. President:
Depertment of Stade
It oooure to me that possibly you my 
intereated to read the enclosed confidential
despatoh from Ambassador Grer dated December 1?th.
It presente the views of the Metherlands Winister,
00/499
General Pabst, who has been resident in Tokyo since
1933. It is of interest to note how olosely
Ceneral Pabst's opinions coincide with our own.
Faithfully yours,
knclosure:
F T 30. 808. 794,499
December 12, 1933.
The Presidemt,
The White House.
 signed ig
U:WP1BBF
inal.

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.93)
499
on
January 15 1984.
94.
432
Joseph C. Grew,
amorioan Ambassador.
Tokyo.
894.00/499
sir:
894.07/499
The receipt is acknowledged of your despatoh o. 608
of December 12, 1933, in which yon disouss certain aspeots
of Japan's forsign rulations. The despatch hes been read
with interest and is commended as being very helpful to
cpurtment in forming an underatanding of international
in the Far East.
onneotion with your report of comments made to
perlands Minister on relatioms bet
ds Sast Indies. as set forth in
ed for your
tee Nevember 14.
1933.
mative Pelities".
from
i1 General
Very
bars.
Willlam Fhillip
sesing seeretary of
~
Lnslesare:
8562.00/79
100

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/50C
894.00 P.R./72
Dec.11,1933
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Deo.11,1933
FROM
) DATED
199111
NAME
1 -1127
7
α
REGARDING:
Political Unrest in Japan: Reports regarding -.
fpg

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.81)
domn the Ginsa, Tokyo'e Breadeay, stoppins alr
proslaiming "The Shone Restoration Must be Carray
with the Saito Cabinet". hater in the momth, the
a salf-styled patriotie erganimatiom coapesed largoly
beaineas men, retired military mam, and diplemats, peapee
resolution to work for the ovarthrow of the Salte Cablmet
but the most impressive anti-Cabimes damemstratiom
on November 25 in Shiba Park under the aaspises of 73 patrl
otie sosieties. At this mesting, whieh was attanded by 
5000 persons, ineluiing 90 year old Mitsukl Tanam, Mimimter
of the Imperial Household mder the Eaperer Maiji,
Inston mas adepted densadtns the restanation af the
Cabinet add the fommetion of a stran Gablles capabte
  e isin i  
Diesatéafsetion with
mogatiatiome per the bedet tor the

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.84)
D ose of the faot tht the
rottal pemianment fer taree of the
pumiahsens was meted out to theae man
aomnt for two or the defemduats ane thirsem
the third. Sentenees of ton years imprimm
on three defendeate for wrom lire mervitene
ed. The four others, for whom termm f fre
yoar had beem asked, will aot, under stapm
have to go to prisem at all if their cóndmme 1s
during various parieds of prebation. taree of thee
santeneed to two years and the other te emm yead
ee mre received favorably by all whe

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.77)
his th sixme
the Fést Criminal aestien 
folloving cay to the affent that lemtenay
aranted la criminal cases meraly betan
in gemuime patriotims appeared mest opportuialy
La Vlew of this ddetsiom it is ths aarprtaine
Procurator demendee m Sove
life imprisament to meven yeaxs of hame Laber for
civilds involved in the 
The e

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.94)
IN
TrfHddy Jelloinship
Division of
10practicChristianity
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
BE1619J1621BALL BUILDING
JAN 17 1934
23 EAST JACESON BOULEVARD
Depertment of State
OFFICE PHONE WABASH 2O12
RES. PHONE ARDMORE 3527
JAN 1 5 34
Hon. Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Acknowledged
By F m A  2o 3
CJ
Deer Mr. Becretary:
S
File
SS
4.00/
The inclosed article by Upton Close
dealing with the Far Eest situation is of such a
stertl'rg nature thnt it seem it should be made
the suhjert of inmediate investigation.
Efforts should be made to counteract
C
the war consciousness which he says is so strong
in Japan. If this is not done, an outbreek will
be inevitable.
Furthermore, if our recogn'tion of
Russie is liable to involve us in a war with
Japan, it hes been purchased at too great a
price, one which the American people should not
be requ'red to pay. Diplonacy, it seems, should
be able to master such situations for the good
of ell.
You have the confidence of the Amer-
ican people rnd of the world, and if this natter
's handled in the spirit of good will to all, the
danger will be averted and peaceful relations will
be ully esteblished.
With very best vishes,
FILED
Sincerely yours.
16
2

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
CHICAGO HERALD AND EXAINE
Japan and Russia Preparing for War
This Spring, Declares Upton Close
Soviets, Nippon, China, Europe
(FROZEN WASTES OF SIBERIA IMPASSABLE
ARMIES)
All Expect It, Says Noted
S
BE
R
A
WHERE.MPAN CAN
CUT Sli RIA In TWO
American Observer
GREAT AMUR
VALLEY
RUSSIAN RAILROAD
NOW HELD BY JAPAN
By UPTON CLOSE,
BAIKAL
Noted Traveler. Author and Lecturer, who urote "The Rt
in Asia." "Land of the Living Buddha," and oth.r
worhs, and who has just relurned from a tour
of Japan, China and the Far East.
JAPAN NOW.PUSHING
OUT INTO HERE
W
AR in the Far East in the Spring! Japan expects
GOBI
DESERT: MONGOLIA
it. Russia expects it. China expects it. Europe ex-
pects it. Only average Americans, misled by the
NEW JAPANESE R.R.
FOR FLANKING RUSSIA
failure of many newspapers to awaken their readers to the
meaning of Pacific events and by a native tendency to sub-
SHIFTINGSANDS
PEIPING
stitute wishes for facts, do not expect it.
IMPASSABLE
BYARMIES
That,.of course, means nothing except pathetic unpre.
paredness for future events beyond our control. Americans
CHINA
did not expect the last great war, although every event-sensi.
SHANGHAI
tive person in Europe felt it coming.
OCEAN
Nearly every issue of the of-
ficial papers in Moscow warns
CHINESE COMMHIST
NEW JAPANESE MUNITIONS
darkly of the Far Eastern war
ARMIES
AND CHEMICAL CENTER.
coming in the Spring. Stalin
FORMOSA
announces significantly that the
double-tracking of the Trans-
Siberian, worid's longest rail-
OMINOUS—This map visualizes the danger spets in the Far Mae
way, is completed save for the
ing article by Upte

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
s ttpes the last groat war, although every event sensi-
tive person in Europe felt it coming.
Nearly every iasue of the of-
ficial papers in Moscow warns
CHINESECOMMUNIST
darkly of the Far Eastern war
ARMIES
coming in the Spring. Stalin
announces significantly that the
double-tracking of the Trans-
Siberian, world's longest rail-
OMINOUS-This map visualizes the danger spets in the Far Bast as estlined in the aeompem
way, is completed save for the
ing article by Uptom Closa.
half-loop around Lake Baikal.
where it is known the Japanese
the effective surprise blow
ang Kal-Shek. Japan's Minis-
this "face"—by buying them 
will cut it upon outbreak of hos-
tilities.
which is her traditional way of
ter in Shanghai has threatened
a donation price. The deal
Throaghout the great Soviet
opening hostilities.
intervention against them. By
Japan planned would be fol-
land there is teeth-gritting de-
A Japanese newspaper, offi-
Spring they will be in position
lowed by a treaty demilitarizing
termination not to be caught
cial spokesman. just at hand
to ofier very substantial aid in
the entire trans-Baikal area,
off guard, with conviction that
contains a brief editorial:
the rear for Russia.
and possibly by the "sale" of the
Rassia will not endure beyond
"The plot against Japay has
But is America's positiem
great Amur Valley.
Spring the continuous mistreat-
been temporarily successful. For
that dictates the Russe-Japaness
Rassia delayed until she got
ment of her citisens and flaunt-
the moment we must wait-and
war situation. Since the mili-
Ressevelt's letter. Them ahe
ing of her rights in Manchukuo
prepare."
tary get the upper hand im
stepped talking "males" and pab-
and the fishing waters of her
A Parliamentary query re-
Japan in September, 1931, they
Habod her formal seomatlona
cently in Paris shows one way
Pacifie sheres.
in which Japan is preparing.
have been willing to clash with
against Japan. She openly
Late word from Japan tells of
Russia at any time.
turmed every energy to prepera-
private meetings of Japan's su-
French exports of munitions to
So hopeless was Russia's
tiem for war. She will emter te
Japan have doubled this past
preme military council in the
strategic position, so out-classed
now, despite her terrifie stra-
year, totalling forty million
home of General Sadao Araki,
was she in military equipment
tegie disadvantage, in the bellef
francs in value in nine months,
leader of Japan's imperial 
and factories. within a radius of
that the United States will net
pansionists.
in spite o? the large Japanese
three thousand miles. that the
permit her to be defeated.
prodn o ron and se 1 in
Threatened by
Matchrrs ae h enabied Japan
Jupane e fred she would not
Before actual war begins. she
fight E en aliy. of course. the
hopes to get thousands of tons
Irt vear to c. o Gernany and
Young Fanatics
Japa e m to annex the great
of American supplies in Ameri-
Holland
ndercloped whea: valleys of
can ships into Vladivostok. She
This popular hero has recen:
There is reason to believe
Sibe::a. They would set their
has already begun negotiations
been threatened by fanatic pop-
that Japan is receiving these
continental boundary where long
with the Curtiss-Wright Com-
ular organizations among his
supplies from France on credit
Lake Baikal nearly cuts Siberia
pany for hundreds of new
own junior officers and reserv-
or loans. A French financial
in two.
planes.
ists known as "Blood Brother-
hood," "Dragon Society" and
mission has been resident in
Japan and Manchuria fer twe
Russia Strengthens
I  und our shippers making
When I came through Seattle
"Boldiers of God." They will
years. It has fermed a "France-
Hold on Strip
to send suppites to Pacifle
use assassination—the common
Japanese Credit Guild." I talked
political weapon of an other-
wise almost homicide-free Japan
—if he permits the "threat from
the rear," as the Japanese ex-
Far East.
just completed a survey of the
UPTON CLOSE, whe ha
with the chief of the mission im
Changchun.
ready for signature when Presi-
dent Roosevelt announced So-
A large loan agreement was
hold the 200 miles between the
south end of Baikal and the
Gobi Desert—shortening their
Then they would have mly to
had counted on prejudice
prevent an approachment.
against Russia in America to
an's military authorities
press it, to become any greater.
or does not eliminate it before
Japan comes to the showdown
scheduled for 1935 over the
Naval Limitation Treaty with
the United States, her "enemy
in the front."
workmen to speed up war mate-
the ame time the Comintern,
supreme economic committee.
ordered all factory directors and
rials.
Russia has a new naval base
negotiations have been in se-
Japan will win. The longer
viet recognition. Since then
cret.
er. if she can convince herself
rising Japanese Empire's bank-
France would like to be the
sands of men and airplanes for
present border on Russda by twe
tact with China severed.
service elsewhere.
off from the Pacific,
thousand miles. releasing thou-
Russia would be fo
con remning the Curtiss-Wright
him with the military minded
Mr. Debuchi, they are replacing
their smiling Ambassador here.
nese editorials are hotly
ito. who is instructed to
rurkey" to us.
So Japan is getting ready to
in Vladivostok which. when I
Russia waits. the more insults
Russia has placed ond hun-
contract and warning against
strike from Mongolia, where her
left the Orient, had launched
she endures. the more Japan will
dred twenty thousand men and
further American co-operation.
armies are penetrating and she
thirty small submarines, fabri-
be able to overcome the timidity
two hundred planes between
Japan will not permit American
is stirring up the tribesmen.
cated at Magnitogorsk, the new
of finance.
Lake Baikal and the Pacific
supplies to pass through her
To the Japanese Russia is a
steel plant in Central Asia. She
Moscow now accuses the Bank
Ocean. But by rail she can
two chains of islands into Vladi-
nation once whipped, now at
has closed the harbor to ship-
of England of flirting with Tokio.
equip and provision them only
vostok. That. the Russians feel,
their mercy. Japan is as un-
ping. which Japan has pro-
British trade is being displaced
for a month ahead.
will involve us.
afraid of Russia as the Kaiser
tested.
by Japanese trade, but British
Japan, striking from her new
Time, too, plays against
was of the Roraanoffs, but be-
Once President Roosevelt had
finance can still take a money-
railroad in Mongolia and from
Japan. She must get Russia
cause of Japan's coming show-
written to Kalinin, the Soviet
lender's profit. Let enough cap-
Jehol, which she took from
out of the way before the naval
down with the United States
General Staff ordered that
ital get tangled up with Japan's
China, could at any time cut
limitations crisis. Her political
"this nuisance in the rear" must
henceforth Japanese planes fly-
cause and even the United States
the Trans-Siberian railway and
soothsayers say that 1934 is the
be watched carefully and, at the
ing over Russian territory be
will find it hard to stand against
starve the Russian force.
critical year with Russia-1936
right moment, handle' with dis-
shot down. Earlier such an
her!
Only the danger of Russian
with the United States.
patch.
order vould have meant war.
Then there is the Chinese
planes over Japan's tinder-box
Meanwhile, on the streets of
A few weeiks ago Russia's
Now Moscow doesn't care if it
picture. China's Communist
cities & few hours' flight away
Japanese villages, youngsters
outspoker Vice-Commissar of
does.
armies have, for the time being.
made her "patient" with Russia.
are playing "shoet the Russians
War and Navy. Jan Garmarnik,
Knowing this, Japan will not
the cooperation of the more
The shrewd Bolsheviks sug-
and Americans." I stopped and
imsued an arder placing the
again flagrantly violate Russian
conservative elements at war
rested sale of their railways.
"posed target" for a group of
Goviet armies on war footing. At
sovereignty until she delivers
with the Nationallst chief, Chi-
Japan was willing to give Rusia
them. They were delighted,

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 23, 1934.
Mr. Grew's telegram No. 15, January 23,
5 p. m., obviously reflects great care in
estimating the situation as objectively as
possible, but apparently the possibilities
with regard to future developments arising
from the change in the War Office are as
obsoure to him, in Tokyo, as they are to us,
in Washington.
It may be observed by way of comment on
the telegram:
(a) With reference to paragraph one: Any
expeotation of seeing "an important reorienta-
tion of policy" in the near future is not
warranted by what is known of the domestic
Japanese situation! Popular dissatisfaction
against the military is becoming perceptible,
and the withdrawal of General Araki would make
possible minor changes of military policy
without necessarily involving major changes of
polioy.
(b) With reference to paragraph two: The
retirement of older generals and their replace-
ment by younger officers would tend to weaken
the "moderate" element within the Army.
(c) with reference to paragraph four: The
significance of the change will depend largely
upon

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
upon the political views of General Hayashi,
with regard to which we have practically no
information. If the change were designed as a
measure of preparation for war the logical
place for an outstanding military leader would
be in the General Staff and not in the War
Offioe.
(d) In conclusion: The circumstances
which support the belief that the change would
make for a turn towards moderation would seem
to be superior both in point of number and of
weight to the ciroumstances which would support
the belief that the change indicates a
strengthening of the reactionary element.
2
EHD/REK

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
fw
FROM
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
to anyone. (B).
Tokio,
Dated Jan 23, 1934,
F/G
Recd 9.40 am.
Ail
894.00
nil
Secretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTN AFFAIR
894.002
Washington.
JAN 23 1934
894.00/502
Depertmest of State
15, January 23, 5 pm.
Several radically different hypotheses are advanced
in various quarters to account for the resignation yes-
terday of General Araki as Minister of Var, none of which
can yet be confirmed as accurate. His present illness
has furnished the ostensible reason, and it is quite
possible that this is also the actual reason because his
illness deprives the army of a representative in the com-
ing debates in the Diet and there are doubts as to his
physical ability to carry on his work for some time to
come. The following factors and conjectures are, however,
FILED
reing advanced in various quarters.
1
One. There are those who hold that the saner elements
in the Government, realizing the dangerous position into
which Japan is drifting, have taken advantage of Araki's
illness to insist on his removal as the symbol of a
policy of military aggression and that as a result we
may expect to see an important reoriontation of policy.
These

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
Page two No. 15, from Tokio.
These elements believe that Araki was not popular with
the Emperor and that with Hirota's growing strength
Araki's position in the Cabinet had become more or less
isolated. There has also been increasingly wide spread
indignation at the size of the military budget. It is
said that Wakatsuki and Suzuki recently threatened em-
barrassing interpellations in the Diet which would have
placed the army in an unfavorable light before the public
and that they agreed to refrain only on the basis of
Araki's retirement.
Two. There has been dissatisfaction among the young-
er officers in the army at being hindered from promotion
owing to Araki's tendency to retain the older generals.
General Hayashi, the new Minister of War, is a leader
of troops rather than a staff officer and is more likely
to retire the older generals and advance the younger men
with whom he is popular.
Three. Hayashi is said to be of a silent disposition
and is reported to have stated that army officers should
abstain from politics. It is therefore hold that he is
not (repeat not) likely to indulge in Araki's inflamatory
writings and speeches. This gives rise to a beliof that
his appointment representa a victory for the liberal
elements

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
Page throc No. 15 from Tokio.
elcments in the Governmont and a rising influence of
the political parties and that the change of ministers
will have a stabilizing effect in the country.
Four. On the other hand Hayashi is said to bo
sclf-willcd, impetuous and capable of rapid decisions
as when he moved the troops from Korea to Manchuria
on his own responsibility in l93l, in spite of Baron
Shidchara's protests, ic is not (repoat not) concilia-
tory and is less likely than Araki to compromisc.
Thore are, thorofore, those who believe that political
unrest will incrcaso and who sec in his appointment a
stop to prepare for possiblc war.
My present belief is that paragraphs numbered onc,
two and three probably have bearing upon thc actual
situation. The coming debates in the Diet may affora
enlightenment.
Repeated to Peiping.
CREW
HPD

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.00/12656
SEE
FOR
Letter
894.00/
FROM
Miller,Francis P.
) DATED
Dec.23.1933
TH1//
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Notes on Japan: Compiled by Mr.Miller and sent to
Doctor Hornbeck and Assistant Secretary Moore.
fpg

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Feluary1,1934.
SX.
The perifhrastie artecle,
lifpical o French pournalion,
bark by Dausow with his
eporh' No. 1363, is adiqualet
bultried in his covering report.
this not a ccurale to
Say that fapaw ras keen
deleep in happmess and prospert
for len years. The dypression
hik Japan in 1920 dnd
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mid nvh leh up untel
19.32. on tach, many people
believe thah te depression
was an iun portant coutribultey
taclor in tringing abouh
The fine-Japarcu coufhih
2

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.92)
RECD
EMBASSY QF THE
UNITED STATES OR AMERICA
3
Paris
Janu
22, 1954.
5
6
JAN 31 34
894.00
SPECLAL REPORT
(No.W.D. 1365)
TE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB1-1934
FL
894.00/504
To
th
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
The merican mbassador formards
herewith Mr. Warrington Dawson's Special
Report No. W. D. 1363, dated January 22,
1934.
FEB 3-1934
FILED
wD/ BRB
Cω.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, January 22, 1954.
Serial No. W. D. 1563.
SPECIAL REPORT,
By Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant.
SUBJECT: Correspondence of LE TEMPS
From The Far East
Continuing its series of letters addressed from
the Far Kast by its special correspondents Robert
Poulaine and F. Chevallier, LE TEMPS published on
Jannary 6th and January 12th, respectively, two further
letters from the latter of these two correspondents.
In the first of these articles, Chevallier
declared that if Japan's policy appeared as an un-
expected series of movements, it should not be con-
cluded that accident or impulsiveness was responsible
for

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
for this. It should be realized that Japan was
now in the grip of what might be called either
evolution or revolution, since opinions differed
on this point, but the fact remained that the
entire nation including civilians as well as
military men and industrialists as well as peasants
acknowledged that changes must be made. For ten
years, Japan had been sound asleep in happiness
and prosperity, caring as little for the immediate
future as for the past. Today, the country has
awekened in the grip of a nightmare composed of
economic, finencial, and political factors whose
reality is too evident for illusions to be possible.
Chevallier considers that the present crisis
is rather of a sociel nature and that its solution
mey be near at hand.
In his second article, Chevallier discusses the
various political parties, promising in the neer
future to examine their respective reections put face
to face with the radicsl changes noted in national
conditions.
He adds that he will approech the question of
the solutions under consideretion only after ex-
amining these preliminary conditions.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.90)
Very respectfully,
ernglon Dawnoy.
Warrington Dewson,
Special Assistant.
Enclosures: (in single copy)
Article from LE TEuPS, January 6 and 12.
In quintuplicate
051.9111/60
D/D

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.88)
Articles from IE TmpS, Jepuars
ORIENTATION POLITIQUE ACTUELLE
Lettre du Japon
ORIENTATION POLITIQUE ACTUELLE
III
(De notre correspondant particulier)
pe! politqre pouvaient, avec raison, a
tcere   pcrer p mfere parlemen-
t non eufemeet un
  programe précis, mat en-
 poe mott-the pot litre de oblesse
 plent, crore à une suprématie défi
 l t eprer conduire le Jae
por doremr progressivement mais effective-
me un cmpore on ies conseillers de Fempereur
rent chois parim les représentants élus de
hronne onme les événements se
mhero g en ce.
  dre  potaion umanime de grande va
pom per onnelle d ntégrité. de dévouement à
is en 1900. 4905. 1914,
R
av obstinen refus
p tr Te motao du peupde de-
Constituton homme
 a t marqé da
ndeutea
 et 
r de éadaptat difficiles de rujuste-
1、1
nt de édret s de benéfice de crise fudu
ree  ompe en quelque mmois, les édi-
nees britant p trop hativement construits
11
japonarse,
comme mutitares. uoadrstries
seffondraient, la campagne comme la ville, riehes
la veille. avaient peur d'apprendre à redevenir
qu ho dontabeentlieh 
p.se
pauvres, les recette- diminuaient dans tous les
Japin
 op une dbzane dannée endormi
rin-
postes du budget, alors que M. Hara sachant qu il
dans le bontheos  la pro-perite, presque dans Fin-
de
importait, avant loute chose, de consolider la
souerance dE om leedemain qun ne serait pas comme
tructure économique de la natión. voulait pour
la veille. Sans donte. depnis deux ans lars-ait-en
1
le pays, culfivateur ou industriel, des crédits tou-
entendre que la situation etaif moins bonne, que
irc-
jours plus importants.
les smpét, me payarent prus les depenses que les
D'ailleurs, au lendemain de l'armistice, qui ent
marchantses se vendadent meilleur marché. Mais
rat-
osé parler déja de la prochaine guerre ? Le monde
on ne patrat? jaoais de situation grave: on ajou-
iti-
entier et le Japon avec lui ne désiralent que des
tait plutôt que tout sarrangerait, que ht crise al-
iu-
années de tranquilité pour pouvoir se reprendre,
lait se terimner. Aujourdhut.   révcitle dans
saccoutumer, reconstituer en face du désordre quí
un véritable cauchemar; il se voit aux prises avee
s'annonçail, un front solide.
des difficultés écononoques, filnanciéres, politiques,
dont la réalité est trop evidente pour qr une ille-
sion soit po-sille, et dont la gravité lui apparait
-
vement irrtsistible. demanda que les crédits mi-
entrée dans la réalité que le pays, dans un imou-
Aussi, la conférence de Washington était à peine
comme pouvant effectivement réettre en canger un
litaires soient considérablement diminués et que
edifice, a la façade brillante pourtant, que ses
on
le temps passé au service soit ramené au moins à
imains, soixante an- laborienses ont lentement
à
dix-huit inois.
érigé; angoissé, affolé, il ne se veut plus préocer
on
M. Hara sut admirablement se servir de ce col-
per des sacrifices quil devra faire; il accepte
de
rant manifeste, qu'il avait pour une large part pro-
toutes les solutions parce que, brutalement, il est
ar-
voqué et ensuite guidé; ses adversaires politiques
résolu à sauver ce qu'il en reste et à reconstruire.
et
ne lui laissèrent pas le temps de voír son œuvre
Malgré les apparences les pius caractérisées —
réalisée, mais quelques mois peine après son
puisque le Japon a adopté tous lès rouages des
me
assassinat, en novembre 1925, la Diète votait à
gouvernements constitutionnels parlementaires eu-
l'unanimité la réduction proposée de cinq divi-
ropéens : Chambre des députés élue au suffrage
universel. Chambre des pairs, cabinet, service mi-
litaire par conseription; qu'il a même incorporé à
sa vie journalière des partis politiques, uno
he-
20-
rts
h5-
sions; en 1925 quatre nouvelles divisions étaient
de s'insurger contre un stat dat ácanlee
supprimées.
Les clans militaires ne comimrent pomt la fuute
presse, une libre discussion des problèmes du jour,
bie et, reconnalasant que des cirsonatadees rs
actes du gouvernement — lc Japon n'est pas une
qu'il a tolére une critique quélquefois vivo des
monarchie constitutionnelle et, en dehors de res-
u-
où
tiflaient, acceptèrent loyalement la dénision rise:
dans un monde qui se relève à peine. d'une ser
l'armée falt figure de « l'inutile
semblances purement extérieures, ne se peut véri-
es-
Mais ils ressentirent profongément les blass
tablement comparer à aucun autre pays; nous
pes
res d'amour-propre et de presttge que
devrions même dire; ne le sera famais,à moins que
ne soient changés, dans leur fondement, les prin-
vistorieux; s suivirent, aveo 
cipes qui, pendant deux mille ans, ont formé la
nation japonaise.
La Constitution a été « graciautament " donnée
avait de multiplier les points-de contact avec lui
par l'empereúr à son peuple, dans le désir qu'il
stigmatisant la décadence
ce point est fondameatal, car l'ootrot de celte Cons-
titution ne réprésente en aucune façon une dimi-
nution des pouvoirs qui sont en sa main — comme
Constitutions, méme octroyées, ne l'ont été que sous
ce fut presque toujours le cas en Europe, où les
municipaux, de députés, ne rap
part dé la várité, que le paribe
une certaine preesion de l'opinion publique 
mot, engendrait des abus qui ne pourradent
mals se trouve étre úne émanation directe de ces
à metire sa stabillté en danger.
pouvoirs. D'ailleurs, elle ne représentait nullement
une chose nouvelle.
et peut attendre le ccsur du pays 
C'est ainsi par exemple que nulle part on ne
saurait trouver le mot " droits " ou le nol « pou-
voirs » en parlant de la Diète: que si elle vote ras
u
lols, celles-cì ne deviennent lois que lorsqu'elles
ont recu le consentement impérial, qui peut ne ja-
sans hian savoir ce qu'll pout avelé

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.90)
uné chose nouvelle.
Cest ainsi par exemple quo nulie part on ne
et peut attendre le casur du pays ; rum
saurait trouver le mot " droits " ou le inot « pou-
peu dans l'histoire pour comprepdré cet
voire » en parlant do la Diète; que si elle vote les
iois, celies-cs no deviennent lois que lorsqu'elles
u
effectivo et constante sur la inssse, édr
vons iel interpréter ce que le monde
ont reçu le consentement (mpérial, qui peut ne ja-
nonce sous le nom de « militarleme
mais venir; qu'elle n'a aucuno décision à prendre
sans bien savoir ce qu'il pout arole
on ce qui concerne la guerre, les questions milita
avec notro conceptfon européenne
res et navales, qu sont du ressort direct de l'empe-
risme.
reur; que si elle est appelée à voter le budget, ello
ne le fait que d'une façon consultative, pourrait-
on dire, l'einperdur ayant désiré que les représen-
raís v; depuis, l est devenu r
tants de son peuple déterminent eux-mèines les
dépenses et les recettes et que l'empereur pro-
longe automatiquement le budget dune année si
la Diète ne l'a pas voté: que sa dissolution est dé-
cidée par simple déeret impérial. En un mot, la
Diète est uniquement un organe consultatif.
Depuis quarantà ans, la Constitution datant do
seulement devant étre recrulés sur un-total de
plus de cinq cent mille : aujourd'hul encorc,, lo
1890, le Japon a suivt une evolution : l'Oce dent
luí a apporté non seulement des possibtiités do
soldat reste, par conséquent, fler de l'étré.
A la caserne. non soulement il régoittune ins-
développement économique. mais également des
truction militaire, comme partout, mais il regolt
idées nouvelles. sur la démocratie en particulier;
une " éducation " civique; on lu explique Je
le tróne, dont toute la solticitude va aà peuple. a.
role grandiose dévolu à l'armée : mu serviée
naturellfement, enrourage la fortmation d'un esprit.
direct de l'empereur, elle est la gardienne de
politique, a appelé auteur de lo, de- hoimmes dont.
l'honneur national, de l'unité et de la continutté
à lui permettre de conedurre ca nation vess la gran-
les conseils éelairés les vues justes ont contr bué
de la nation: héritière des traditions millénafres
qui ont guidé l'empire, elle reste la personnif-
vrat que t ars de et cmpere sont  oides
que toutesfe rpo rr m udp ren ten
deur, la pr-perté et de buen r: tant l peste
cation éternelle des qualités qui constituent
lo dévouement. la charité. la solidarite, la bonté.
l'essence du Japon ". en particulier la justice,
fées, de méore doe de peupe sat qurn re poot
Revenu à son champ, le soldat libéré faft né-
airement figure dun étre supérieur, qui con-
pr un p p e op
nait mieux que tous les autres, non seulement les
n protitahé
litiques, économiques et sociales et dont toute
choses  de la ville, mais aussi les questions p9-
l'actiite est en principe mise au service de Più
tré pénéral
P
Dailleurs, latme n a garde de le laisser à lui-
mome et de se désmtéresser de lui; elhe l'enrôle
dans des assor ations danciens soldats dont il est
mmer eniste
lie de tare parie, dans lesquelles it devient
majerité prlmet.
Frgal de s aitrs et où il se souvlent que son tru-
dot cn tout état de canse aller à la sécurité,
révolution
uption 30-qp 0 d:00
rrpdeoo deon pav
ihoit de coumpter
pendast pus de en 
on, respecté, sion
es
raitre. ae queique
aime pour « connaissanco » de toutes les queș-
s,
tion-, le soldat reste done, entre les mains de scs
re
que le r ati
chef, un unsfrurment docile, sür el effiggce.
Dès lors quand la haute direction de l'armée le
ra utile elle pourra faire appel à lut poor
gmder dans a pt phère, ses compatrictes
un forme de pou le redressement des
 expseru; ete signalera à
pat  prefond toutes les mesures qui
s
onduisent la nation dans un chemin dangeroux
le
11
 pourra coompter sur lul pour conquérir à sa
e1
u
these les populations sur lesquelles son action
e
prr admirablement tressé
que Fon rrtrouve dans la plus petite unité adml-
nistrative, lelément militaire crée en un femps
plutôt due pmoarché couyrant tomr rempr 
très court un courant d'opinion. dont la puissance
100
nt
rabatteurs et courtiers achet ent des x p
teurs maitres.
In était mème entré dans les contumes de vor
est mesurable par le rayon dans lequel il se dé-
veloppe.
No pus tenir un compte sérieux de cette con-
le ncuveu cabinet dhssoudre a chambie e jour
mème de a prise de pouvoi:, sans se soucier le
ception grandiose du service militaire, de ce sen-
timent qu'emporte avec lui le soldat, redevenu
at
moins du monde des répercusstons et troubles
trouver un mois ou deux plus tard à la téte dune
que cela pouvait entrainer pour ie pays el  
majorité toujours absolue.
firent affluer dans l'empire une riehesse insoup-
connée jusqu alors, richesse rapidennent mmonopoli-
séo par un tout petit nombre de groupes qui ne
tarderent pas à contröler a eux seuls lactivité
commerciale et industrielle d'un peuple de quatre-
vingts millions d'habitants, quels que fussent les
domaines où elle se pouvait exercer : classe nou-
velle, sans passé, sans histoire, mais puissante pa
De plus, les progrès érconommques du Japon
paysan, qu'il est lo soutien réel de la nation, de
refte formation qui, loin de limiter son devoir à
que partout et toujours il se doit souvenir de su
haute imission; méconnnttre cette organisation
qur afteint en même temps tous les sujets de
lempire cest involontairement, mais certaine-
ment, so fermer toute compréhension utile du
la période du service. ou de guerre, lul enseigne
sure, fidèle à une tradition millénaire dans tout
imilitarisme Japonais.
ce qui touche aux problèmes nationaux et l'homnie
Ce pays, en 1933, reste, dans une très large me-
son or. quí allait apporter son appui aux partis
politiques.
la rançon devait se payer plus ou moins par des
On assista alors à un véritable financement, dont
de la rue pleure longuement quand, au théatre.
héroiques qui marquèrent l'époque du shogunat.
Politiquement parlant, supérforitó ou: faiblesse,
il revit les dévouements tragiques, les sacrifices
directives politiques proflables aux donateurs.
mais trop souvent contraires aux intéréts géné-
née importante du problème japonais qu'à le vou-
loir étudier consciencieusement, on ne sauralt
nous ie le voudrions dire; mais, en tout cas, don-
raux de ce peuple.
Nous étudierons dans la troisième partjo de cet
e
supprimer.
Cest dans cette atmosphère de pértè'hicóntes-
exposé comment, pendant cetle péme période,
table de prestige des partis, de provocations pres-
tout fut mis en œuvre pour diminuer progressi-
vement les dépenses de la défense nationale, de-
truire l'influence des clans militaires et donner
que constantes : polftiques, éoonomiques de Ha
décision de Chang Hsueh Liang de rompre aveu
Chine, atteigmant leur point culminant dans:la
au peuple l'assurance que l'armée ne peut étre,
commo le disait au général Araki le baron Goh,
Ijer au Kouamintang. advarsae
la politique japonophile de son père et de ae xal-
président des chambres de commero, « qu'uá
déclaré du Japon, que se produiat rmbident de
élémernt improduetif, source de dépenses per-
dues sans retour; vomment ost dée la réaction qci
e
septembre 1931.
Les falts sont connus; nous ravons, pas & nous
est à l'origime de la crise actuella et comment cnfin
y arréter; dmons seulement que bei theldent,
les partis politigues, tardivement alertés, essayent
de ne pas mourír.
sino-aponaise,permit l'indépeadance 
Mais dès malntenant nous pouvons comprendro
pourquoi le pays accusó en la personné da cus ma-
rins et soldata qul, lás, ant fait appel à la vio-
lence, traduit devant ses propres tribunaux, non
seulement se défend, mais acsuse à son lour sans
pitié, sans réticence, ceux qui, honorés de la fa-
veur de conseiller l'empereur, ont lourdement et
gravement négligé ce devoir.
La crise que traverse le Japon, et dont le dé-
Nous étudierons, dans notre proéhgin expes
nouement pourrait étre proche est sans aucun
doute une crise sociale : l'élément militaire dé
la réaction des partis mis en prasance dua
sire reprendre dans la diroetion des affaires de
l'État le rôle important que lul assignent la Consti
tullon, la protection et ta sécurité de l'empire
dans l'ordre social le rang qui fut le sien depuit
fouer le méoaname japonais.
des slècles; mais elle est aussi, peut-étre méme
grands problames auxqueis silée ont é
plus encore, une crise dè mécontenfément & l'égard
dun Parlement qui dnà pas su mériter la con rnet
ét des solutions qul sont envisagtes.
que lui avait si largement aecordée la nation, et

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.85)
opouvor nous voulons parler du imatere Hara.
méme et d
qul faisait suite à de noinbreux cabine's miilar-
dans des assoclalions d'anciens sok
res ou bureaucrates, émanations do clans : pre-
mier ministère basé sur re parti qui possédait la
l'égal de ses ainés et ou il se souvient que sem
majorité pariementaire.
Cette orientation, en elle-méine une véritablo
à la grandeur de eon pays.
révolution, s'est poursuivie presquo sans inter-
Consr fent de l'honnour qui Inl
ruption jusqu'au dernier ministère Inukai (1932):
parml les défanseurs dú l
e-
pendant plus de quinze ans le Japon a pu appa-
88
raltre, avec quelque raison. un pays qui tendait
B.
à devenir constitutionnel parlementaire,et ceci sans
re
que les prérogatives de lempereur aient jamais
été touchées, puisqu'n les excryaít sur le conseil.
jugera utle elle pourrà salre (appp
devenu influent, inais conseil quand même, des
guider, dans sa pelite sphéres ses
membres de son cabinet.
at
el
die dans uno harmonie heureuse si les partis po-
Elle aurait pu se continuer. probablement gran-
n
errements qu'elle lul emposeraselle
ro
drsorimads rave de povor a  ns dence
litiques, certains,. bien à tort dailieur. l'avoir
r
conduisent la nation dans un, chemin dangersux
et pourra compter sur lui pour conquérir 
de
umilitaire, ne -étartent porogre srvement laies alle.
u
thèse les populations sur lesgueiles son action
n
à ne penser qu à eux-mèmes, au point den oublier
s'exerce; et par ce réseau adifiirablement treseé
re
presque totalement les intérêts de la nation dont
Ils étaient les mandataires : lès élections ne fai-
que l'on retrouve dans la plus petita unité adm!-
nistrative, l'élément militaire crée en un femps
satent plus figure de consultation populaire. poais
très court un courant d'opinion, dont la puissance
plutôt d'un marché couvrant tont l'empire. où
est mesurable par le rayon dans lequel il se dé-
ht
rabatteurs et courtiers aohetaient dus voix ponr
veloppe.
00
e-
ieurs malfres.
In était mème entré dans les coutunses de vo
ception grandiose du service militaire, de ce sen-
Ne pas tenir un compte sérieux de cette con-
Le nouveau cabinet dissoudre la Chambre de 
timent qu'emporte avee lui le soldat, redevenu
méme de a prrse de pouvone. sans  soncter to
paysan, qu'il est lo soutien réel de la nation, de
moins de monde des  percusston e trootee
refte forination qui, loin de limiter son devoir à
que cela pouvatt trarrer pour l pay
páriode du service. ou de guerre, lul enseigne
frouser um momptfa 
que partout et toujours il se doit souvenir de sa
majorite tougm ab
lmute msion; méconnaitre cette organisation
De plus  prgrs L
qm atieint cu méme temps tous les sujets de
tirentaph
p umrolontairrinent. mais certaine-
commee ppo alee rt
Loend. e fermmer 1 ute comprehension utile du
poom re dans une ties large me-
s
conie
 ndeune maditron mille mate dans tout
mgt
pxprobleme matiounux et Phomne
de pieore longuement quaoed. au théatre.
velie
t rrt s devouemments tragiques. les sacrifices
son or q
herorque qur marpmèrent Pépodue du shogunat.
pol tque
Politique mrst parlant. supériorit on faiblesse,
On 
mrods he  votdrions dires umads, cn tout cas, don-
La rangon payP
11
poe prmpertante du problème puaponais qu à le vou-
11
d
lor sturdier conscfercd us ment, cn ne saurait
u
mat、1
suppritmer.
Cest dan efte atimo-puere de perte ineontes-
pre tige  parlis de provocations pre
quenstantes : politiques éeonemiques de d
Choot. otergnant leur po nt  obmtnant dans la
de de chang Hsueh 1 mg de rouopre a
p aperophile de  pret e 
 hoommadee eree
 de dan qu
preduist rn det
pembre 1031.
Les faits sont cormus; nons n'avons pas a nous
 arréter disons seutement que cet incident, sans
R
gravite treile en lui-mème, détermina la cguerre»
sino-japonaise. permit lindépendance de la
de ne pes mourir
Mandcthourie et remit aux eléments militaites la
Mais des marntenant mous pouvor oopreaere
haute main presque absolue sur la direction de
PourguoiPA- n L er onne dm
l'Etat, en leur rendant auprès de chacun leur pres-
rins et soldats qui. las, ont fait appel a la vio.
tige d'autrefois; ils désirent, comme M. Hara Iovail
leace, tradost devant s propres fribunaux. ton
fait contre cux il y a quinze ans. se èrir 
seulement se defend man aeruse a son tour sans
l'opinion pour mettre en force les réformes qùil
pitié, san rerre coux qui, homorés de la fe
juge nécessaires, que celles-ci soient de l'ordre
Reur de comnrill rempercdr. d pomrdemment et
social ou politique.
gravement neglige ro devoir.
Nous étudierons, dans notre prochain exposé,
La croe que traveree le dagpen.  dont le dee
la réaction des partis mis en présence d'un ren-
notement pourraot éte proche. e1 sams soeon
versement aussì complet, ce qui terminera-lu
doute une  s ato: Fetément itaire d
premièro partie de cette étude : analyse de la
sire pepucndre dan la drectien d adlaares de
qualité et de la puissance des forces qui font
IEtat le role umportant que hui asstguent la Censti.
fouer le mécanisme japonais.
tution. la protécton et ta sécurite de lenpire
La deuxième question à examinor sera celle de
dans Pordre sociat le rang qui fut le sien deput
grands problèmes auxquels elles ont à faire fac'
des siècles; mais vlle est ausst, peut-étie neme
et des solutions qui sont envisagées.
plus encore, une crise de inécontentément à l'égaré
F. CHEVALLIER.
d'un Parlement qui n'a pas sr ériter 1
que lui avait si largement aecordée la nation, et
(1) Voir de Temps du 15 potobre 1933 et 6 jan-
lon ne saurait sétonner de voir le pays de: udn
aux qualités de désintéressement, de justice
xien 1934.
d'honneur de ses soidats les réformes qui lui ren.
dront la paix et lat prospérité.
P. CHEVALLIER.
Jan12
(12 Vuit l0 Temps du 15 octobre 1033.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 13, 1934.
I think you will be interested
to read through Tokyo's despatch No.
656 of January 26, 1934, reporting
the substance of a statement made
to ir. J. K. Davis by the General
in command of the Japanese forces
in Chosen.
EHD7REK

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 26, 1934.
No. 656.
Subject:
Farewell Interview of Consul General Davis
of Seoul with Lieutenant General Kawashima.
CONFIDENTIAL.
TE
En10 34
Diviaion et
Copy a dE
FEB 12 1934
202
894.00/505
Departmest of State
994.00
DEPA
103
F
(irsde
For
ON!
MIDSD
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
O.N.I.ANDM.I.D
S i r :
On passing through Tokyo today en route from his
post at Seoul to Vancouver, Consul General Davis told
me that in his farewell interview with Lieutenant
3
General Kawashima, in command of the troops in Croseny
2
the General spoke with enthusiasm of the great progres
FEB 2 4 1934
and development in the arts of civilization which had
FILHD
taken place in Japan and added his hope that the op-
pressed and suffering people of Manchuria, China and
Siberia would soon be enabled to share these Heaven-sent
gifts

=== Page 407 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
gifts. The foregoing is not a precise quotation but
conveys the sense of the General's remarks as repeated
to me by Mr. Davis. They represent, perhaps, the thoughts
of a certain type of Japanese military mind.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
JCG:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
In quintuplicate to the Department.
4
FP

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SEC.
DIVISION OR FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AR 5 1934
March 30,1934.
DIPARINT VT OF STATE
Tokyo's despatch No. 683 of February 21,
1934, reports on the position of the Saito
Government.
It would appear from the despatch that
the recent difficulties of the Saito Govern-
ment are due largely to dissensions in the
Seyukai. If you will omit reading pages 3
4 and the first two paragraphs of page 5, I
think you will find the despatch somewhat
less confusing. It is obvious that the public
in Japan realizes that attacks are being made
on the stability of the Saito cabinet but that
it does not know very much of what is going on
behind the scenes.
The principal point to be emphasized,
however, is that in the opinion of the Embassy
the Government will be able to withstand the
attempts to undermine it.
FE:EHD: ABW

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE,OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 219193
No. 683.
5
SUBJECT:
The Saito Cabinet.
1234
F/ESP
Nocopyin 7E
Division of
894.002
R FASTERN AFFAIRS
12>1众
MAR 13 1934
[repartment of State
894.00/506
MiD)D
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
O. N.I. AND M. I. D.X
Washington.
Sir :
I have already reported the recent attempts in the
Diet to discredit the Saito Cabinet* and the resignation
of Baron Nakajima, Minister of Commerce and Industry**.
FILED
1934
of Education, who is alleged to have accepted a sum .of
¥50,000 from the managing director of the Saghalien
Industrial Company in connection with the sale of certain
farest
*Embassy's despatches Nos. 673, February 19, 1934, and No.
664, February 6, 1934 (Monthly Political Report for Jamuary,
pp. 26, 27, 28, 38-39).
**Embassy's telegram No. 24, February 9, 1934.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
forest lands in Saghalien, and there are charges that
other members of the present Cabinet were involved in
questionable dealings in transactions of shares held by
the Bank of Formosa. Mr. Hatoyama is said to have been
cleared of any criminal action, but his resignation is
freely predicted, and in certain quarters the early fall
of the entire Saito Cabinet is considered possible.
In examining this situation, the following factors
should be given consideration:
For nearly two years, or ever since the assassination
of Premier Inukai, the political parties have been cowed.
The present session of the Diet as I have previously pointed
out, is the first one since that time in which there has
been any real criticism of the Government.
Intimidation
of the speakers, or the threat of it, has been absent, and
the more timid members have been able to express their views
without fear of reprisels even if their utterances were
not "patriotic" enough to suit the terrorists. Still,
the political parties are out of favor with the public,
which regards them with suspicion as hotheds of corruption,
perhaps not without reason.
Finding that their attacks on the Budget, although
productive of no concrete results, were well received,
some of the members of the Diet have launched attacks on
Ministers of State. There is a certain measure of popu-
larity attaching to onslaughts on members of the Cabinet,
and as this sport has been closed for two seasons, con-
siderable zest has been displayed in its pursuit this
year.
.Besides, there has been some foundation for the
charges levelled.
In

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3-
In l927 there was a series of business failures
which ultimately involved some of the largest banks in
Japan.
The Bank of Taiwan was particularly affected, as
it had advanced money to a number of trading and industrial
enterprises which were unable to pay.
The Government,
through the Bank of Japan, came to the assistance of the
Bank of Taiwan, and in return forced a reorganization and
a drastic writing down of the Bank's assets.
The Bank
retained the stocks and bonds which had been hypothecated
to it, carrying them as assets at decidedly reduced figures.
During the past few years, as the Department is aware,
Japanese business in all lines has been experiencing some-
thing of a boom.
Industrial concerns that were considered
practically worthless have been able to meet their obliga-
tions and show a profit.
. Consequently much of the old
collateral held by the Bank of Taiwan began to have a market
value.
To some extent this was aided by the high values
placed upon some of the privately owned properties which
were to be included in the proposed steel merger.
The
Bank decided to dispose of these holdings, it being stated
that the amounts by which the sale prices exceeded the
values of the bonds and stocks as carried on the Bank's
books were to be added to the surplus.
The sales were
made, not on the open market, or at auction, but by private
arrangement with individual purchasers.
The Bank officials
claimed that the sales were made in this manner to avoid
disturbing the market by dumping large blocks of securities
- a course which Bank officials claimed would have defeated
its own purpose by depressing prices.
This action by the
Bank of Taiwan, added to the high values placed on the
private steel plants for merger purposes (See Monthly
Political

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
一4-
Political Report for January, page 38), caused much un-
favorable comment, as there was a measure of opinion that
the public's interest had not been properly protected by
the Government, particularly by the Department of Commerce
and Industry.
This situation naturally had repercussions in the
Diet. Baron Nakajima, the Minister for Commerce and
Industry, has resigned, and Mr. Hatoyama, as stated above,
is now under fire. It is reported that other members of
the Cabinet will be attacked and that perhaps the whole
Saito Ministry will be compelled to retire.
It is interesting to note, however, that the charge
brought against Baron Nakajima was not corruption or lax-
ness in the discharge of his duties, but something akin
to disrespect for the Imperial House or a disregard of
the teachings of Japanese official history. It seems
that some years ago Baron Nakajima, who at that time had
no political ambitions, wrote a pamphlet on one Ashigaga
Takauji, a prominent figure in Japanese Medieval history,
who has been the subject of much controversy..
matter is of about as much immediate importance as a
dissertation on Benedict Arnold would be in the United
States, but Baron Nakajima took a position which laid
him open to the charge of having publicly supported the
reputation of one who had been branded a traitor to the
Imperial House.
Baron Nakajima, having resigned under a charge of
this absurd character, certain disaffected elements of
the Seiyukai turned their guns upon Mr. Hatoyama, accuaing
him of having accepted a present of some  50,000.
As a
matter

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
matter of fact, it is well known that Mr. Hatoyama has
collected various sums for the Seiyukai at different
times.
The particular transaction complained of took
place some years ago when he was out of office, and it
would appear to have been no more unethical than the
collection of contributions to a political campaign fund
in the United States, since he could not have done much
for the donors in any case.
Nevertheless a select com-
mittee of the House of Representatives will look into his
conduct.
There is a large measure of opinion that the only
purpose of these moves is to embarrass the Government.
It is thought that the Prime Minister will perhaps wait
until the tempest has quieted a little and will then ask
the Seiyukai to name a person to take Mr. Hatoyama's place,
in case his party is dissatisfied with him, but as the
Seiyukai at the moment is split into three factions, it
is believed that such a request would confuse the party
still further, especially as its chief whip, one Mr.
Mochizuki, has resigned, apparently in disgust.
In all
probability, Viscount Saito counts on this situation as
an asset in his favor.
The basic fact seems to be that
certain politicians, seeing that the Diet is powerless to
control policies or legislation, are determined to cause
the Government as much trouble as possible, taking advantage
of certain transactions with which there is public dis-
satisfaction.
The foregoing is cited, not for its intrinsic im-
portance, but to show how difficult it is in many cases
to deduce from their passionate remarks in the Diet the
reasons

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6-
reasons which frequently motivate the behavior of the
members of that body.
Probably the Government would
not have permitted a motion of non-confidence to be made
in regard to Baron Nakajima or Mr. Hatoyama, or it is
possible that many members would have refused to take
part in a motion of that kind for reasons which they would
not discuss.
Such reasons might well be that a consider-
able part of the funds alleged to have changed hands found
their way into the party coffers, and that too much specific
publicity could embarrass the party no less than the in-
dividuals concerned.
Consequently the causes of acti on
have to be guessed, a statement which applies to Japanese
as well as to foreign observers.
Well informed observers
believe, however, that Viscount Saito will not be forced
out of office because of the action of the Diet in regard
to Nakajima and Hatoyama.
There is a feeling that the
political parties have no one who has sufficient prestig
to take his place; that the Army has no one who measures
up to the position, since not even Araki commands its un-
divided confidence, while the Navy's recent large and
truculent demands for money has alienated public sentiment
to an extent that would make the selection from that source
extremely difficult.
These facts would seem to discredit
one rumor commonly heard about town to the effect that the
present attacks on the Cabinet in the Diet have been care-
fully instigated, aided and abetted by the Military for
their own purposes.
Having in mind the foregoing factors, the position of
the Government is still too nebulous to justify a definite
prediction by the Embassy as to the outcome of the attadts
in the Diet.
My present belief is that the present Cabi-
net will weather the storm, although further individual
resignations

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
resignations may occur. Viscount Saito enjoys immense
personal prestige throughout the country and he has safely
withstood the various political efforts to dislodge him
during the past two years, so that there is good reason
to discredit the recurrent rumors of his impending down-
fall. It is doubtful if any other individual could ∞mmand
such general respect or could successfully control the
various opposing political factions. Developments may
occur behind the scenes, however, which may always upset
the most careful calculations. Few Japanese, even in
high positions, are fully aware of what is going on.
In this connection I have the honor to enclose a
memorandum of a recent conversation between Mr. Neville
and a prominent member of the Foreign Office who is trust-
worthy and whose relations with this Embassy are such that
he speaks his mind with complete frankness.
Respectfully yours
No,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure
1.
As stated above.
Copy to Legation Peiping.
800
JCG:ELN:1

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch
No683 of 26. 21 1934 from
Enbassy at Tokyo:
REPORT OF CONVERSATION, MR. NEVILLE AND MR. KURUSU,
CHIEF OF THE COMMERCIAL BUREAU OF THE FOREIGN OFFICE.
FEBRUARY 18, 1934.
I asked him about the political situation in
general. He said that he could not understand it.
He did not see what the politicians thought they could
accomplish by causing trouble for Hatoyama. The Sei-
yukai had no one, so far as he could see, to replace
him as Minister; if they forced him out, they would
be asked to name some one else, and that would cause
a tremendous row in the party, which is split into
three factions. He said that there seemed to be no
one who could take Saito's place as Prime Minister,
which meant that it would ail have to be settled by
the Prime Linister in the end, and might result in
Saito's picking a completely non-party man to be Minis-
ter of Education. I asked him if the military and the
reactionaries generally might not rise up and scare the
politicians again as they had done in 1932. He said
that he thought not; that the day for successful terror-
ism was over.  A year ago, perhaps, a Government with
Hiranuma or Araki as Prime Minister might have been formed,
but he did not see the possibility at the present time.
He said that for the time being there was nothing to do
but leave it all to Viscount Saito. He then said that
it was difficult for non-Japanese to understand the work-
ings of Japanese politics, which was not strange, as a
good many Japanese did not understand it either. He
said that all the talk about Nakajima and Hatoyama which
appeared in the papers reelly did not mean much. He
said that no one really cared about historical essays
in politicel life, nor was any one interested in Hatoyama's
receipt of money some years before he became a Minister
of State. Every one knew Hatoyama got money for the
Seiyukai's campaign fund. There was some feeling, however,
that the recent steel mergers had placed too high a valua-
tion on some of the private plants; there was much dis-
satisfaction too because the Government had failed to for-
bid the Bank of Taiwan to sell the shares which it had
held in the steel companies end the rayon company. It
seems that some years ago when Suzuki and Company, a large
trading firm, and a number of other concerns, including
some banks, had failed, the Bank of Taiwan had come to
their rescue and had been supported by the Bank of Japan
and the Treasury in avoiding a panic. The Bank of Taiwan
had taken over a lot of bonds and shares in various con-
cerns as collateral. The collateral was not worth much
at the time - in fact, it was really a face saving device.
Vith the recent boom in rayon, and the general business
activity of the past year and a half, these securities
began to have a value. The bank, accordingly, began to
sel1

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
sell these old obligations and stocks and had built up
its reserve fund. The contention was that these bonds
and shares ought to have been sold on the open market or
by public auction.The bank did not do this, the os-
tensible and perhaps the real reason being that to begin
selling on a large scale would have had the effect of
demoralizing the market. Anyway, there had been no
general distribution of what looked like melons, and the
politicians were angry. Accordingly there was trouble.
Still, he said, it was extremely improbable that the
political parties would have control of the Government
again, because the public did not trust them.

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIYISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 14, 1934.
I do not believe that it is
necessary for you to read the enclosure
to the Embassy's despatch No. 685 of
February 23, 1934, which is another
instalment of the report on the trial
of persons involved in recent political
assassinations.
I suggest that you read the
despatch.
The civilians who were convicted
received a much more severe penalty
than the military and naval officers
who were tried for the assassination
of the Prime Minister, Hamaguchi.
The leniency shown towards these
officers has apparently been one of
the minor causes of the recently per-
ceptible disoontent among the people
against continued domination by the
military.
EHD:EJL

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.93)
2
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 23, 1934.
No. 685.
Subject:
Transmitting a Portion of a Report on the
Trials of the Reactionaries Involved in the
Incident of May 15, 1932.
F/ESP
71
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFF1RS
2T
AMAR 13 1934
$'b
894.00/507
宏
894.00
?.
ON
COPIES SENT TO
The Honorable
O.N.L. AND M.L.D.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
294.00/492
I have the honor to refer to my despatches No. 565
12134
AP
of October 31, 1933 and No. 581 of November 15, 133.
R
FILED
Both transmitted portions of a report on the trials of
the reactionaries involved in the terroristic incidents
of the first half of 1932. The first-mentioned despatch
transmitted the Introduction, a short account of the
Crimes which were committed, an account of the Uncompleted
Trials of the "Blood Brotherhood" which succeeded in
murdering former Finance Minister and Baron Dan, and an
account

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
account of the court martial of the Military Cadets
involved in the May 15 Incident. The second despatch
referred to transmitted that portion of the report
deseribing the Court Martial of the Naval Officers
who were involved in the May 15 Incident. I am now
1/
transmitting with this despatch another section of the
report, which describes the trials of the civilians
who were involved in the Incident.
The twenty civilians who have just been sentenced
played a relatively unimportant part in the events of
May 15, 1932. Their leader, Tachibana, had actually
left Japan for Manchuria a few days before. His con-
federates did no more than try to bomb a half dozen
or more electric transformer stations for the purpose of
throwing the city into darkness and confusion and thereby
assisting the work of the military and naval men. In
spite of supposedly detailed and careful preparation,
their attemmpts appear to have been weak and their success
was almost nil.
Their trials began in September just as the sensational
court martial of the naval officers was drawing to a close.
The civilian trials proved to be an anti-climax from a
theatrical point of view. Although Tachibana, their
leader, was the kind of man who might have been expected
to provide the public with sensational statements, his
testimony attracted little attention. The public was
either wearied of the reactionary outbursts of the con-
spirators or else the newspapers provided other more
interesting

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
interesting reading matter.
The only phase of the trials in the civilian
court which attracted attention wus the delivery of
the judgments. The sentences of life imprisonment
for the leader and terms of fifteen years for others
were very much out of proportion to the sentences
of four and fifteen years awarded the military and naval
men by their court martials. This discrepancy started
discussions in the newspapers and the matter has been
commented upon in the Imperial Diet.
The general amnesty granted on February 11 in cele-
bration of the birth of the Crown Prince benefited to a
certain extent the conspirators of the May 15 Incident
and consoled that part of the public which sympathized
most deeply with them.
Respectfully ygurs,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosuré:
Copy of Report.
800.
SWW:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
Euclosure No
to despatch
Nos85 ofFo.2.3'34 from tho
Embassy at Tokyo?
-26-
The Trials of the Civilians Involved in the May 15 Incident.
The trials of the 20 civilians involved in the
incident of May 15, 1932 began on September 26, 1933.
Their part in the affair which resulted in the assassina-
tion of Premier Inukai was to attempt to throw the city
into darkness and confusion by bombing the electric
transformer stations which supply current to Tokyo.
They were active on the outskirts of the city, while
the military and naval men were doing their killing
and bombing within the city.
However, the damage done
by the civilians was unimnort nt and the city was not
throvn into the state of confusion desired by them.
A half-dozen transformer stations were attacked.
Several hand grenades never exploded and in other
cases damage was done only to minor apparatus. When
they realized that their attempts had failed deveral
of the participants tried to escape but they were
eventually arrested.
The charges against the twenty civilians varied
between murder, attempted murder, abetment of murder,
and violation of the explosives law.
The leader of the civilians was Kozaburo Tachibana,
40, the head of the Aikyojuku School in the Ibaragi Pre-
fecture. He was of rural origin and his formal schooling
went no further than high school. However, he appears
to have been interested in social problems and for many
years was a professed socialist. He took up farming
in his native prefecture and became intensely interested
in bettering the condition of the fanmers. He gradually
came

=== Page 423 === (confidence 1.00)
-27-
came to the belief that the farmer would have to help
himself and could not depend upon the politicians and
he therefore established a school for the propagation
of his ideas. The Aikyojuku School gradually became
the center for the development of reactionary ideas.
Tachibana became a friend of Nissho Inouye, the leader
of the "Blood Brotherhood", whose trial is described
in a previous section of this report. They decided
that their ideas could be achieved only through dras-
tic and violent means. No evidence was produced to show
that Tachibana was one of the plotters in the "Blood
Brotherhood" affair, which has already been described,
but he was in accord with the ideas of those plotters.
When they failed and he was approached by the young naval
officers who were planning to carry forward the campaign,
he did not hesitate to cooperate. The prosecutor
charged Tachibana with (1) receiving money from Lt. Koga
of the Navy as a campaign fund,(2) receiving hand grenades
from another Lieutenant, (3) influencing his pupils to
attack the power stations, and (4) planning the attempted
murder of Zei Nishida, one of the group's accomplices
who was suspected of treachery to them. He did not
actually take part in the activities of May 15 but fled
to Manchuria a few days before. There he escaped arrest
for some time while waiting for his comrades to organize
another outbreak in Manchuria. When he found that they
had been arrested in Japan he gave himself up to the
police in Harbin. He was formally charged with murder,
attempted murder, and violation of the explosives law.
The

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
The next most important personage among the group
of civilians was Dr. Shumei Okawa, an economist and the
organizer of two nationalistic societies. His associates
were the source of some of the funds of the conspirators.
He was accused of supplying them with money and arms.
Another defendant well known in Japan was Hidezo
Toyama, the son of the famous Mitsuru Toyama. Young
Toyama, who is associated with the Pan-Asiatic movement,
was also accused of supplying arms and ammunition. The
formal charges against Okawa and Toyama were abetment
of murder and violation of the explosives law.
Others were Nagamitsu Kawasaki, a farmer devoted
to the Nichiren sect of Buddhism and a great friend of
Nissho Inouye; Kenichiro Honma, 43, principal of the
Shizanjuku School at Tsuchiura; Kunihiko Goto,31, a teacher
in the Aikyojuku School; Masayo Hayashi, 40, a brother-in-
law of Tachibana; and Takeshi Ikematsu, 23, who was ex-
pelled from the Army Cadet School because of his beliefs
and later joined the Aikyojuku School.
The rest were
students in the last-mentioned school.
During the trials Tachibana was the principal spokes-
man of the group. He denounced the political parties, gave
a sensational account of the plight of the farmers, and
stated that the only hope for them was to restore by drastic
means the direct rule of the Emperor. He denounced the
government officials who are entrusted with agricultural
affairs stating that they are graduates of technical
schools and aertcultural colleges where there is no con-
ception of the farmers' plight. He termed Japanese
Universities "just so many employment agencies" where
the

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
the teachers think they have fulfilled their duty
when they present the students with their diplomas.
He said that he had established his school with the
assistance of Shozo Hayashi and Kunihiko Goto, two of
the defendants, for the cultivation of the "philosophy
of the soil". The students in Tachibana's school did
not pay tuition and the teachers were paid meagre salaries,
the funds being donated.
Tachibana denounced fascism, as
it is generally known, because of its non-recognition of
the power of the Emperor. He is an advocate of"The Kingly
Way". He said that the government should be based on
the agricultural families of Japan and "Manchukuo", with
the Emperor as the direct ruler. He said that the present
parliamentary system of Japan is but a poor imitation of
the British; that the members of the Diet are not repre-
sentative of the farmers of the nation.
Most of his testimony was concerned with describing
the condition of the farmers. He contended that the
agricultural system of Japan is on the verge of collapse;
that taxes and the cost of fertilizer are too high. He
said that the farmers are constantly victimized by persons
who take advantage of their ignorance. Their economic
position is weakened by elaborate and expensive marriage
ceremonies which, he stated, are due to their lack of
recreation and their desire to get drunk and forget their
troubles.
Tachibana stated that the most serious blow suffered
by the farmers in recent years was the ban placed on the
exportation of gold after January 11, 1930. In conse-
quence of the ban, he contended that all farm products
fell to prices which made it cheaper for the farmers to
throw them away than to market them. He pointed out that
the

=== Page 426 === (confidence 1.00)
-30-
the man responsible for the ban was former Finance
Minister Inouye who was assassinated by the "Blood
Brotherhood".
Several of the civilian defendants stated that they
took part in the conspiracy because they did not wish
to leave everything to the military and naval men.
They stated that they were not in favor of a military
dictatorship. However, they did not make it clear
how they hoped to defeat the plan of their military
and naval acoomplices, who testified in their respective
trials that they wished to throw the city into confusion
so that martial law and a military dictatorship would be
established.
Throughout all the trials of the partici-
pants in the May 15 Incident the defendants have been in-
definite about the actual steps which were to be taken after
the city was thrown into confusion by the assassinations
and the destruction of the transformer stations.
The United States was brought into the testimony when
her statesmen were accused of thwarting Japan in its
ambitions on several occasions,- e.g. after the Sino-
Japanese War and the Russo-Japanese War, and during the
Siberian expedition.
The civilian conspirators, like their accomplices
in the armed services, denounced Marxism and stated that it
is not suited to Japan. One of them stated that the
unbroken Imperial line at the head of Japan makes the
nation superior to all others.
The testimony of Dr. Shumei Okawa,LL.D., economist
and

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
nationalistic
and  writer, was given mostly during a private session
cf the Court. He is stated to have been connected
with a "certain case" of several years ago, about which
great secrecy has been preserved. He admitted in public
to having supplied the plotters with arms and ammuni-
tion as well as money. He stated that he "thought a
resort to violence was the inevitable means to which
high thinkers might resort in times of extraordinary
tenseness".
One day was devoted to the question as to whether
the hand grenades used by the conspirators were made at
the time of the Russo-Japanese war. The matter was never
settled but the defense attorneys tried to prove this
to be true and that therefore their age would have pre-
vented their being effective.
The defendant who tried to murder Zei Nishida, one
of his accomplices, testified that he went to Nishida's
house and after conversing several hours drew his re-
volver and tried to shoot his intended victim. However,
the latter dodged the bullets and the assailant fled,
thinking that he had done his duty in at least making
the attempt.
On November 30 the Public Procurator made his demands
for sentences. He asked that Tachibana, the leader, and
Nagamitsu Kawasaki, who had acted as liaison between his
group and the "Blood Brotherhood", be sentenced to life
imprisonment; that In. Okawa, the economist and national-
istic writer, Ikematsu, the former Army Cadet, Kunihiko
Goto.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
Goto, the teacher, and Hideo Okuda, a student, be
sentenced to fifteen years imprisonment; and that
the others receive terms ranging from seven to twelve
years imprisonment. In contrast to the principle on
which the military and naval men were sentenced, the
Procurator at the trial of the civilians contended
that the motives of the men, no matter how patriotic,
were of minor importance.
The trials of the civilians did not attract as much
attention in Japan as those of the army and navy men
involved in the May 15 Incident. However, the severity
of the sentences demanded by the Procurator caused wide-
spread comment. The nation's sympathy for the conspira-
tors, which had been dormant, was again aroused. The
demands were compared with the sentences of fifteen
years imprisonment given to the two naval officers
who were the actual leaders in the plot.
To the surprise of everyone the Court on February 3
handed down sentences in most cases as severe as those
demanded by the Procurator. Tachibana was sentenced to
life imprisonment. Dr. Okawa, Ikematsu, and Goto were
given 15 years' imprisonment. Kawasaki, for whom the life
penalty was asked was given only 12 years imprisonment, as
were two others. The rest of the sentences ranged from
five years to eight years.
The awarding of the sentences brought forth another
outburst of sympathy for the defendants, but it was
tempered by the knowledge that the court had hurried its
decision in order to permit the sentenced men to take
advantage

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
1
-33-
advantage of the ammesty which was to be proclaimed in
celebration of the birth of the Crown Prince. However,
reactionary circles were incensed over the severity of the
civilian sentences as compared with those given to the
military and naval men. The first action of the defendants
was to appeal to a higher court. Then they realized that
this move would prevent their benefiting from the ammesty
to be proclaimed on February 1l. The day before the ammesty
was granted all, except three, withdrew their appealsand
were therefore prepared to receive a reduction in their
terms of imprisonment.
The Amnesty of February 11, 1934.
On February 1l the Emperor of Japan granted an amnesty
in celebration of the birth of H.I.H. The Crown Prince of
Japan. During the weeks preceding the amnesty the Japanese
law courts were busy delivering sentences so that as many as
possible would benefit. The last stages in the trial of
the civilians involved in the Incident of May 15 were hurried
for this reason.
By the amnesty all death sentences were commuted to
life sentences; all sentences of life imprisonment were
commuted to 20 years imprisonment, except for persons over
70 years or under 16 years of age in which cases their
terms were reduced to 15 years imprisonment; all those
sentenced to terms of imprisonment other than for life
had their sentences reduced by one-fourth if they had
not commenced to serve their terms, and by one-half of
the remainder, if they had served one-half of their terms.
Persons

=== Page 430 === (confidence 1.00)
-34-
Persons condemned for certain crimes,-such as treason,
lese majeste, murder of blood relatives, murder for robbery,
cruel murder, repeated robberies, and breach of military
discipline,- did not have the benefit of the ammesty.
All of those condemned for the part they took
in the Incident of May 15 benefited from the ammesty.
The eleven army cadets who were sentenced to four years
of imprisonment had their sentences reduced to three
years. The naval officers who were sentenced to 15 years
imprisonment had their terms reduced by nearly four years
and the others proportionately. Tachibana, sentenced to
life imprisonment, will serve 20 years, and his confederates,
except the three who appealed, had their terms reduced
by one-fourth.
Although the amnesty benefited 35,000 prisoners, accor-
ding to the newspapers, the attention of the public was
drawn principally to its effect upon the conspirators in the
May 15 Incident and to the fact that it saved the life of
Tomeo Sagoya, sentenced to death for shooting Premier Hamaguchi.
Sagoya and four others who were awaiting execution had their
sentences reduced to life imprisonment.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/508
SEE111./72
FOR
FROM .State Departmant
(.....Hemiltan....) DATED Marah 10.19
Division of Far Rastern AffairAmE
TO
1—1127
REGARDING:
During past six months, empecially since Hirota became
Foreign Minister, a more normal situation has developed wherein
diplomacy has been reestablished in its former and rightful position.
M
A

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL.
Nemorandum of conversation between the Japanese Ambessador.
Mr. Tsuneo Matsudaira. and Mr. Hamilton.
I called by aprointment on the Japanese ambassador,
Mr. Tsuneo Matsudaira, and had tea with him at his residenoo.
During the conve sation the mbassador said that
during the past two years the situation in Japan had been
abnormal and that during the past six months, espeoially
since lirota became Foreign Minister, a more normal situa-
tion had developed wherein diplomacy as reestablished in
its former and rightful position. The mbassador said
that in dealing with the situation oreated during the past
two years by the abrupt swing to the Right in Japan, the
more moderate elements had realized that they must allow
time to pass in which the foroes of the Right movement
would spend themselves and permit the gradual reestablish-
ing of more moderate and normal tendenoies.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 12, 1934.
A very good rule to follow with regard
to information gratuitously offered by non-
official Japanese to foreign diplomatic
representatives is to assume that the state-
ments are calculated to please the hearer
rather than to state the facts. In this
particular instance, the statements made by
Mr. Obata to Mr. Grew, as set forth in
Tokyo's despatch No. 720 of March 20, 1934,
with regard to the reasons for the resigna-
tion of General Araki are not discordant with
what we have already heard. We have under-
stood that General Araki, who was at one time
regarded as being the principal exponent of
Japanese imperialism, became progressively
less extreme the longer he remained in office
as Minister of War, and far hahrcasou
became upipulen wikt the ertremiats
902
FE:EHD:ABW

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, March 20, 1934.
No. 720.
SUBJECT:
The Reason for General Araki's
F/ESP
Resignation.
Jil
894.00
CONFIDENTIAL.
Division
40Ep7
FAR EASTERULAFFAIRS
APR034
药
894.00/509
For Distribution-Check
(
1A
4.0
JUN1-1934
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
S i r :
Mr. Obata, who was formerly my colleague in
Constantinople and later Ambassador in Berlin, now
retired from the diplomatic service, called on me
today and in the course of conversation said that it
might interest me to know the precise reason for
General Araki's resignation, which he had learned from
reliable sources. He said that General Araki had
practically been forced out of office for having issued
too many unredeemed checks in the political sense. In
other

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
other words he had made too many promises to satisfy
the young chauvinists in the army with regard to future
military action which he had not been able to carry out
and he had accordingly lost the confidence of this group.
Realizing this situation he had made use of his illness
as an ostensible reason for stepping aside.
The question of his successor immediately arose
and it was generally believed that the choice would fall
on General Mazaki who had long desired to succeed Araki
and whose ultra-chauvinistic leanings endeared him to the
rank and file of the army. However, Prince Kanin, the
Chief of Staff, absolutely refused to hear of General
Mazaki's appointment and it was he who insisted on
General Hayashi who took a good deal of persuading before
he consented to accept the post. Mr. Obata said that
General Hayashi came from his own part of the country
and that he knew him well and that while he was outward-
ly identified with the most chauvinistic element in the
army, he maintained this attitude merely in order to be
able to influence and control the younger and more hot-
headed officers. In thought, however, he is not chauvin-
istic and Mr. Obtata feels that his appointment means a
great step forward for the liberal school of thought in
Japan as opposed to the die-hard element.
Mr. Obata then observed that this liberal school
of thought had gathered much strength in the last several
months. The freedom of speech and criticism of the army
in the present session of the Diet represented a marked
change

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
change from the last session of the Diet where none of
the representatives dared to make themselves heard. In
other words, the chauvinistic military influence was
decidedly on the wane. Also in the Foreign Office there
had been a great improvement. At one time there was a
prominent element in the Foreign Office which was closely
allied to the military and in fact the Gaimusho was
broken up into two camps. Obata said he had spoken to
Count Uchida about the importance of getting rid of
these chauvinists but Count Uchida was much too timid
to take action. Shiratori's transfer was the first step
and now everything had changed. He thought that this
change would be progressive throughout the country and
that Japan's relations with the world will be much better
as a result of it.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
800.2
JCG:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
n
n Embassy, Moscow.
JM

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OR STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1934
The suggest that
you -read ri full the
attached des fatch from
theyr, Nho. 736, A fril , 1934

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 30, 1934.
2LN
J
In spite of recent indications that
the Japanese Government will continue to
pursue a strong policy towards China,
Tokyo's despatoh No. 736 of April 6,
1934, discussing recent changes in the
attitude of the Japanese people towards
the military, is considered to be an
"excellent" despatch. I believe that
it deserves an instruotion of commendation.
The despatch should be read in full.
RD:ABW

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
70
Tokyo, April 6, 1934.
No. 736.
Subject: The  ilit ry nd the Peo le of Japan.
Fila lust t Jolayo
C.)
S
Division of
F/G
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1
C
APR 23 1934
Trepartment of State
May 9 1984.
894.00/510
894.00
note
STATE
For Distribution-Chack
894.20
Grude
7.0
INUSA
The Honorable
COPIES SENT TO
The sec tary of State,
O.N.I. AND M. I. DJ
 shington.
Sir:
If the Diet session, recently concluded, ccom-
lished nothin else of o: rticuler iuportance, it did
denonstr te un ist:kebly the existence of a strong
feoling in Jepan gainst the abuse of power by the
militcry. This, it s cms to me, is of considerable
MAY 1 4 1934
FILED
significance, in view of the fact that until the Diet
met in Junuery h roly  voice had been raised ageinst
military do inence since the outbreak of the Man-
churian affair. For over two years the military
influence
1<

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
influence in the councils of the nation has been para-
mount.
Military men, military affairs, wars past and
wars probable have occupied a great deal of the attention
of the nation curing this period. Americans, preoccu-
pied with the problems of domestic economic reconstruc-
tion, have been prone to point to these obvious signs of
militarism as proof of the inherent belligerency of the
Japanese people. Virile :s the nation is, there is not
much evidence thet the J: panese are much more bellicose
than the peo les of other strong netions, while there is
definite evicence that there is a substratum of common
sense nd recson in this country which holds firm against
extremes.
The most distinctive ch: r. cteristic of the Jepanese
people is their intense social consciousness; their
discipline und unity. In this they, at times, show an
:lmost sheep-like tenoency to follow thcir leaders.
Such a peo le ust needs leck a well-dcveloned critical
faculty, p: rticularly that involving bold nd indenendent
thinking. Consecuently vhen in Septenber 195l the nation
was led into the gr: vest nu most hazurdous adventure
since the Russo-J-p nese war, the r sponse by the general
public was instantaneous and fervid.
During these two years past, an emergency spirit
has been maint ined, oartly through the determined efforts
of the milit ry, and partly by the series of events which
have aroused the nation;- the Menchurian issue, the
Chinese boycott and the Shanghai affair, the Lytton
report and the withdrawal from the League, the talk of
war with Russia nd the United States, the threat of a naval
race

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
race, the mandated islands issue, and the trade controversy
with British India. These events produced a national
psychology boruering on hysteria, in which Japan seemed
isolated tnd friendless with the whole world aligned
in op osition. In these circumstances military pre-
parednes: seemed the only dependable policy for the
netion, ne military men were looked to as saviors of
the country.
As a s eaker in the Diet stated: "Not to be
 soldier was not to be a men".
The state of mind of this nation is, end has been
for some time, bnormal. Americans h: ve only to recall
the lirious days betveen 1317 nd 1920 to realize that
no notion is i mune to noss hysteria. In what might be
ca1led the more norgal u: ys between lozl snd 1930, the
soldier in Jepan Was steadily losing in prestige and
f vor. Following the disastrous and expensive Fiberian
expeaition, the solcier hed come to be rogarded as some-
thin of  sociul pi r site. Good families declined to
llow their daughters to maurry milit ry o ficers.
peatedly curin: this period loud protests against mili-
tary costs nd the size of the military establishments
vere made*and the army had been forced to give up two
divisions.
ny observers believe that the outbreak
at ukden in Sentember l931 was part of the effort of the
Army to save itself from further adversity.
Ail this was changed overnight following the
Manchurian outbreak. The soldier was immediately re-
stored to fame and favor and has remained in that happy
state until recently.
The
894.20/65
Embassy's despatch No. 223 of May 9, 1931

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
The reaction gainst the military was first sensed
a year ago following & speech in the Diet by Count Uchida
in which he stated in effect that Japan would rather be
reduced to ashes before abanuoning her position in Man-
churia. This extraorainary statement, with its dire im-
plications, occasioned some sober thinking in this country,
and has contributed a new phase to the language: "shodo
gaiko" or "desperate dinlomacy".
This phrase was freely
discussed at the time of Uchida's resignation, and strong
hints ere made that Ji pan had no stomach for any such policy
of desneration in dealing with foreign εffairs.
Count Uchida w: s known to be hand-in-glove vith the
milit ry uthorities, nd his resignation was undoubtedly
a blow to the milit ry influence. 'he new Foreign Minister,
Mr. Hirota, has so unmistakbly uenonstrated his eagerness
to cultivote better r lations abroao that mere mention of the
changed Japanese diplomacy is suff cient in this discussion.
The Department will recall that shortly before Hirota assumed
office, Mr. Shiratori, notorious chief of the publicity section
of the Foreign Office, nd r. Toni, Chief of the Asiatic
Bureau, both closely in touch vith the War Office and highly
influential officials unaer the Uchida regime, were transferred
away from the Foreign Office. These arch leaders of the chau-
vinistic element had split the Gaimusho into two bitterly
hostile camps. Their passing healed this split and left the
more moderate camp under the new Foreign minister definitely
in control.
No discussion of military influence in Japan during
the past two years would be complete without mention of that
extraordinary high-priest of the military cult, half-mystic
and half-Spartan, - General Araki. His great personal influence
both

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
both in military and civilian circles made him a unique,
as well as highly dangerous element in the Government.
Literally speaking, what he demanded was done, end no one,
not even with the prestige of Mr. Takahashi, the veteran
Finance Minister, could successfully oppose him. Had
he decided for a war with Russie or the United States, there
is little doubt as to what would heve hapoened.
But even General Araki was not inmune to the new
moderate spirit. It seems certain that he capitulated
to the conciliatory policies of Hirota in the famous
Five-Ministers Conference* liast fall, following which
this country has very apperently chenged its attitude
toward the rest of the vorld. .But in conceding to the
liberal policies, Gen:r l Araki seems to have lost the con-
fidence of the chauvinists in the Army and to have dug
his own political grave. As someone has said, he gave the
Army too nany unredeemed(political) checks. Realizing
this situation, he resigned on the score of illness which
seems to have been no more serious than a cold.
Gener:l Hayashi, the present Minister of War, is
gen rally regarded as an old fashioned warrior type of
leader. However, his cautious and moderate utterances
in the Diet have shown him to be an entirely different
type from his predecessor. His appointment may be con-
sidered a decided sten forward for the liberal school of
thought in Japan, as opposed to the extreme chauvinist
element.
I
894.00/1193
X
Embassy's despatch No. 566, October 31, 1933.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
I have mentioned the reaction against Count
Uchida's declared policy of "desperate diplomacy", and
have digressed to touch on the personalities of his
associates and successors, who have influenced the conduct
of foreign af airs. An outline of other factors which
have changed public atitude tovard the military should
follow.
In Japan, as in all countries, the pendulum of public
feeling tends to resume the norm. The public may be
aroused to a high pitch of feeling over a given situa-
tion, but sooner or lcter the tautness slackens. This,
in my oninion, is what is hanpening in Japan. Under the
calm leadership of Mr. Hirota, the country has come
to accept a more reasoned view of foreign relations,
and to discount the cries of "emergency" and "crisis" from
the military die-hards. Utterances in the Diet would
indicate that the public now begins to feel that it has
peen tricked into an unnecessary state of agitation, and
is inclined to blame the military for the false alarm.
Outspoken discussions of the budget in the Diet also
reveal dismay over the size of the military demands and
the suspicion that the military have deliberately stirred
up the people with the talk of a crisis in order to get
the money for their own plans. The staggering cost.
of the "desperate diplomacy" is being brought home to
the Japanese in earnest. The Army and Navy budget for
the 1934-35 year is approximately Yen 940,000,000 out of
a total budget of Yen 2,112,000,000. But more sobering
is the fact that the military expenditure exceeds the
total

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
total revenue from taxation by about Yen 150,000,000.
As one speaker stated in the Diet,: "We will have no
country to defend if we spend all our resources on defense".
Curiously enough, the most heated criticism of the
military in recent months, both in the Diet and the press,
has been of military meddling in politics and of military
indiscipline. The notorious "May 15th Affair" in which
Premier Inukai was assassinated in a plot involving Army
and Navy officers, caused a tremenaous shock to the nation.
At the trials the military cuthorities seemed to try to
exploit the affair as a demonstration against the corrup-
tion of party government.
More recently the public has
seemed to suspect that the whole parliamentary structure
was being undermined in favor of a
movement toward fascism
of a Japanese brand, leo by elements in the armed forces .
Japanese may feel disgust at the corruption of the politi-
cians, but they obviously dread a fascist regime. Cri-
ticism of military interference with affairs of state out-
side of their proper ken occupied more attention in the
Diet than any other topic, barring the budget. I have
1!
annended to this despatch translations of selected state-
ments made in the Diet in this connection. They bear
out practically all conclusions drawn in this despatch.
The influential capitalistic classes have long fretted
under the exactions of the military and the Army's re-
strictions on the capitalistic exploitation of Manchuria.
No extension of military or fascist authority would be
pleasing to these classes.
Finally, due consideration of the effect of military
appropriations on the farming classes must be given in
assigning causes for the decline of military favor. The
Army

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.93)
-8-
1C
rmy and Navy draw most of their personnel directly
rom the farms, where during the past few years con-
:C
itions have become almost intolerable, with prices
t
alling and debts increasing. Relief funds appro-
ns
riated in last year's budget have been severely cut
e
n the present year's buaget due to the pressure of
ilitary demands. Although Finance Minister Takahashi
ri
leverly avoided aumitting this fact in the Diet, it
n∈
ie to go all around if the military seized a dispro-
at
ortionate share.
t?
To the American observer, interest in this changing
ttitude toward the military lies in the fact that the
C
ation is obviously regaining its ecuilibrium. The
n
umult and shouting, the hysteria and fanaticism are
inancial hang-over, to the realization that Japan has
.e
vlore enemies then friends, and that friendship must
vlay be a proud pose, but cooperation is the surer path
no peace and prosperity. It is this, I think, that the
apanese are now beginning to reclize.
10
One must bear in mind, however, that due to the
VO
eculiar structure of the Japanese constitution by which
tpompetence of the civilian government, and due to the
pharacter of the Japanese people, at once excitable
dnd easily led, this country will remain an unstable
t2
guantity

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
quantity in international relations until time
has worked more fundamental changes.
Bespectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Transletions of selected statements
in the Diet, as stated.
800.
WTT:r
Copy to Embussy, Moscow
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to despatch No. 736
of April 6, 1934.
House of Representatives-January 25.
Gotaro Oguwa (Minseito):
"Everyone knows that the budget for the next fiscal
year was compiled in comnliance with an obstinate demand
from the military .........
The military are afraid of
the growth of enti-military sentiments mong the masses.
If they re really unxious to prevent the growth of such
ideas, they should give utmost care to the effects of the
buoget of next year."
natsutaro Haraguchi Lieutentnt General retired:
"At the resent time when the State and the people
are alike suf erin from f nancial difficulties and
denression, the rmy ene navy re claiming enormous sums
of money every yetr. Some people may gain the wrong
impression and even express suspicions that under the
pretext of the present critical situation, the army and
navy are claiming sums beyond the limits of necessity
(applause)....... I am sure that under present laws and re-
gulations military men re prohibited from concerning
themselves in oolitics. But rumors tre current that
some militery men re in fact concerning themselves in
politics or in movements for political reform. The
circulations of such rumors is highly regretteble for
the srke of the military men nc the Imperial Army
(1cuse)."
House of Representatives- February 13.
Mr. Genjiro Sugiyame, Chakei Tais uto:
" I raise : voice : gainst the budget for next year
because it is simoly : milit ry budget. Not only will the
hurdens of the peo le increase in consecuence, but national
economics will eventually coll: se. The argument is
frequently cavancea that adequate military preparations
are imed :t the promotion und mcintenance of peece, and are
not aimed et en cctual war. I contend that military pre-
paretions vill endinger international relations and thus
lead toward war. Such a danger is obviously present in
this budget, cnu therefore I express my opoosition. The
Irmy and Navy budget for the next fiscal year is estimated
at Yen337,000,000. Even if a11 state revenues accruing
from taxation should be anplied to this expenditure, a
deficit of Yen 160,C00,000 would remain. From statements
made

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
made by Government leaders in this House, it seems
clear that the present policy will be continued for
the next ten years or more."
House of Representatives-January 26.
Norishige Y. mamasu,-Seiyukai:
In the course of a long interpellation on radicalism
end fcscist :ctivities he stated:
"Ind it is the general impression of the public that
certain elements in the Army end Navy, which have something
in common with these extremists, is giving support to
redical movements. Moreover, we frequently come across
the views of high officers of the Army or Navy published
in the press or mag:zines on the subject of "social reform
or reorgnization". Whether or not these articles were
actually written by the officers n:med or are fabrications
of journ: lists I do not know. But at any rate the public
is leu to believe that such re the opinions of high officers.
I wish to ask the Wer minister vnether officers in active
service :ctually dvocate such ideas and whether they seek
to reorganize the sociel order. Of course there is no
denying that those oficers involved in the May 15th affair
vere possesreo of ravolutionary idea. (ep lause)".
House of Peers- January 24.
Saijiro Aoki (Koyu Club) :
Since the occurrence of the ay 15th affair, wild
rumors heve been circulated. After juagment on the mili-
tary men involved in this affeir was pronounced, these
rumors have assumed : more obnoxious tone than before.
Some say that these men, who were sentenced to 15 years
imprisonment, will be released in 6 or 7 years. Others
say that the budget is to all intents a military budget.
For example, the Minister has struggled fruitlessly
to obtain funds for the relief of distressed farmers. Then
the YOMIURI recently published an article by Mrs. Yosano
stating that party members are restrained from expressing
their views on various oroblems because of fear of the
military. Others say that under present conditions only
military men are entitled to be called men (others may
be dismissed as inconsecuential-trans.) In military circles
there are some who are saying " Well, who will be next?"
(to be assassinated) At a meeting of ex-service repre-
sentatives in Guam Prefecture recently a certain leader
made a speech callin for the organization of a fascist
government in Janan and emphasizing that to this end we,
military men, should operate beyond the sphere of the pro-
visions of the Constitution and other laws. This argument
vwas

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
was received with acclamation by his hearers......
In this period of national crisis such unconstitutional
utterances are liable to injure the national spirit of
Japan".
General Hayashi's reply disclaimed any knowledge
of this matter, and was otherwise non-committal.
Lower House-J-nuary 26.
Yutaka Miyazawa (Seiyukai):
"I wish to comment on the proceedings of the
courtmartial trial of the May 15th affair. I wish to
call the attention of the Government to the wie dis-
parity between the ordinary criminal law and the military
law in meting out penalties on those involved in this
affair ....... I fear that this wide disparity is due
to a lack of unity in the various legal codes. Such
evils, if unremedied, may have serious consecuences.
The alleged pronaganda aimed at estranging the mili-
tary from the public, which has been so widely discussed
in this House recently, may be cited as an example of such
consegeences. Who can deny the possibility of friction
between the military no the nublic if the Government
fails to remove such glaring inecualities between the
ilitary and the ordinary criminal laws?"
(Lter, in diccussing arms expansion)
"Arm ment is supposed to be for the sake of assuring
peace and not for warlike purposes. Nevertheless the
military authorities have formulated an armament plan
involving enormous expenditures meanwhile calling
the nation's attention to Russo-Japanese relations and
Japan-American relations, and using such alarming terms
as "crisis", "emergency", "possible war",etc. Such
tactics of our military will only serve to alarm other
countries and help to instigate an armament race among
the nations. This will in turn add to the heavy financial
burden borne by our nation, eventually plunging this
country into deplorable financial straits......."
(Later, in discussing the use of the term"crisis
of 1935-36"):
"Certainly it is unwise that the military authori-
ties are anparently trying to inspire a spirit of mili-
tarism in the nation, thereby making foreign nations
suspect that Japan is bent on armament exnansion."
Lower House- January 24.
Seijun Ando(Seiyukai):
"To be frank, since the occurrence of the May 15th
affair the nation is under the impression that the military
have

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
have been meddling with state affairs. And the public
is in the dark as regards certain actions made by the
military, due to the rigorous censorship over the press.
The public is therefore prone to guess at the situation
and suspects something like an intrigue ..I do not mean
to say that the military authorities are responsible
for any political intrigue, but I do say that the people
entertain doubts as to the political attitude of the
military le ders ......In a section of the public there
prevails & vague apprehension as to the outcome of the
present political situation. A change of government
in the direction of fascisn is feared. This vague appre-
hension is increased by the constant cry of "crisis of
1935-36", leading the peonle to think that an international
political change is im inent and that εt any time a war
with some foreign ne tion may brcak out .....
One more thing ......Why did the Army and Navy issue
those st:tements denouncing a movement to estrange the
military from the public? These statements took the public
by surprise and cre ted a strange sentiment among the
peole who un to that oment had entertained not the least
doubt as to the perfect unity of the military and public.
The public has now b gun to oubt the stability of the
Eovernment and to feel uneasy about the future. The
people fear that there may occur a collision between
the milit: ry cuthorities and the political parties....
To me it seems that the steps taken by the military have
brought about an unfortunate situation; - one contrary
to what they expected nd one vhich undermines the unity
of the nation. Moreover, such statements issued by the
nilit ry must have aroused no small :mount of suspicion
abroad as to the attitude of this country. The year
1936 may prove to be critical, but it is premature to con-
clude that thecrisis may not be voided. While defense
measures are neces ary, the oroper diplomatic measures
urt not be neglected.
Eizo Ishizuka(Imperial Nominee-House of Peers)
February 7.
"I understand that in certain military circles
there exists a kind of plan concerning Manchuria. It
is rumored that the manchurian affair and developments
until the oresent have followed this plan. Of course
I myself have not seen this plan and am not in a position
to say whether it exists or not. Still I understand
that it is not merely an imaginary document. Of course
the military authorities will deny its existence. But
I ain inclined to believe that it does exist, and that in
this plan is included a program of social reorganization
or revolution in this country- Japan- as a sort of by-
product or corollary of the Manchurian affair. And I
am not unconvinced that this idea is not entertained among
many

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
it must be the duty of senior officers to control
these juniors and to prevent the younger element from
going b yond their own sphere and meddling with politics,
diplomacy,etc. It is & matter of imperative necessity
that the militry authorities exercise a strict control
over the attitude and doings of their subordinates and work
for the preservation of strict military discipline
and morale."
General Htyashi in reply:
"As to the cuestion of Mr. Ishizuka concerning the
alleged nchurian program, I fail to understand clearly
what he said, but I may state definitely that there is
nothing in military circles to cause suspicions of the
kind mentioned by the interpellator.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.87)
~12n
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ELNH
NMH
-for notation on reend
of W.T. Turner. Third
Secrelary at Jokyo
Cr

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.91)
516
May 9 1984.
The Homorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Ameriean Ambassador,
04.00/810
Tokyo.
sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of your despatch
o. 736, dated April 6, 1934, entitled, "The M111tary
and the reople of Japan," whioh has been read with
interest.
The Department desires to express its commenda-
tion of the adequate manner in which this subjeet
was presented.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Nillimm Phillipm.
09100110
PY: MD!DLY
FE
FP
5-2-34
W.m.H.
true cepy of

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.90)
tre, La toply retes tos
HEADQUARTERS PHILIPPINE DEPARTMENT.
OFFICE OF THE DEPARTMENT COMMANDER.
10582-90
March  1006
FAR L
RECEIVED
AAPR 2 0 1934
APR 3 0 1934
894.00
PHILIPPIE POLITIOSI
alightly dxring the past menth. Beerimimatieme and ivestives fly thdae
and fast fram beth fasti one. The Demeerate Party has beam aplie lnte tee
to the mame "ImsooBát PArT" and both have sued An court te restuain the
(majerity) faetiem of the Damoerata Party.
susk a way as to leave hin little hope that he ean matme an ait fram a
diffiealt pesitiom and at the sme time save kis fase.
surd even to the mest wmistelligent veter.
中
TIAL

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.81)
DENTIA
the Imeular Gevermmont.
DAZIGEAL YOLHRTAELL
the ammel repert of the Camender in Chiet of the Batiemal Velanteess

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.81)
T MOOL ma:
PROVINON OF BOMSOGON0- 15th IRSAStSY Beglm
IN THE VISAYAN ISILANES:
PROVIMORS OF CAPIL AND ANTI QHE T 19tH LnSatry Ragim.
FROVINCE OF CANU: SOth Infantry MagIment.
PROVINCE OF BOMOL- 2lSt InaRy RegS.
PROVINCE OF SAMARI- RSrd Infantry Regimmt.
IN MINDANAO:
PROVINCE OF JOLOS- 56th Infantry Begiment.
This makes a total of se Infantry Ragiments, pims the Aviatien
Corps, the Engineer Corps, Chemieal warfare, Jadge Aéveestes Depart-
ment, Pinamee Departmeat, Slgml Cerps, Medlesl Admimiatrative Cespa,
Sani tary Cerpe, Dental Cerps, Qmartermaster Cerps. mmd Military Imtel-
ligemee Department."

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.85)
moasly  ts. M. Nobogasi utiried this mw
td stes.
ARLAS AD PANTU AT TR PRT  NAA HG  
WUMBER OF
TUMBUR OF
NA TI CNA LI TIES
ARRIVALB
ESPARE
Amerlesms
4.84
ses
0
Amtralian
8
2
Belgian
2
witish
Brisisk Imdian
26
10
Oammdian
10
animese
44.5
957
Oubes
0
1
Oseeslevakian
1
2
Dases
1
2
Datak
Mayptian
0
rilipimes
452
200
Tremah
6
10
1
1
Itallm
1.20
2
sriss
Lome
wath referenee to a peselase alach botmen Jagen sne the tated shaten
a poemtnens mriter reesmtly statse:

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.77)
TH MADATRD ISIANDGI
An interesting letter has resently beem reseived in Manils which tends
to bear ont reperts comeeraing Japanese sotivisies threngkout the Mandated
The lotter zeeds:
828

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.88)
Group shall probably be shifted frem Jalait to r-
cther Islamd.
I hate some dotaile abent the death os the foemr
I un give you details whiah ave prebal

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.79)
he meld, that the Dlovist Amades eould arive the Japeer
dovolop."

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.74)
CONFIDE
Mh Lntort coeri ceth Chi, le aate by the  
ahas, necrig to safomtion resste  this eiss
AOTLYLTEAHLNANSALL
to be a war in the mear fatare and that It would be stagod tne the Par met
was that whem the hestilities breek the British Ferees is shang
tramster of these waite weuld leave the defense of the Interm
loring itstat t n ent of this offiees

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.83)
CONFIDENT
wree are offistal."
MIRN AGZLYLRIGA
Dateh Dest Indies.
eppeaétion weald be epexiomsod by the Japamsee in geining eantrel es tne
slem of Japamone control to the south at the present time withsms imterptee
a strong resistanos, evem to the peint of engnging la astual marfasse
PRNK P RVER
Yjor Genoral, U.  A.
Commanding
CONFIDEN

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.91)
IN
EMBASSY OF THE
OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
WE
Paris, Apr1l 24, 1954.
34
7
894.00
SPECIAL REPORT
0
Division of
(No.W.D. 1408)
PAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
AY 5- 1934
894.00/512
ENT OF STATE
To the Secretary of State
HM
Washington, D.
ROPEAN/FFAIRS
The American Ambassador forwards here-
with Mr. Warrington Dawson's Special Report
No. W. D. 1402, dated April 24, 1934.
MAY 17 1934
FILED
wQ.
WD/are

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF,AMERICA
Paris, April 24, 1934.
AY-34
Serial No. W. D. 1402.
SPECIAL REPORT,
By Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant.
SUBJECT: Speeial Correspondence of
LE TEHPS From the Far Bast
L& TEMPS publiehed on April 23, 1934, an
article from one of its special correspondents
in the Far East, F. Chevallier, dated from Tokye,
and discussing the general results attained so
far by the present Japanese Gevernment.
Whereas the Saito Cabinet appeared to be in
a difficult position last October, it is solidly
establisbed today with a will to remain in spite
of the many obstaeles whidh it has had te surmount,
and it has furthermore been able te mmintain a
strietly Parliamentary attitude.

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
With respect to "Manchukuo,* Chevallier
declares that its consolidation has been con-
tinued methodically, the budget is balanoed
and economic resources are increasing, Japan
having found there "a formula of economio
collaboration whose details are not yet worked
out but which will assure the prosperity of
the new State, not only without complications
for Japanese economics but while supplying the
latter with a valuable contribution in natural
and commercial wealth."
Chevallier goes on to remark:
"The United States proclaims that its attitude
has not changed, but would it insist upon reiter-
ating this if the fact itself were elearly apparent?
The policy observed by Mr. Hirota, Minister fer
Foreign Affairs, is already bearing fruit. The
Japanese Ambassador in Washington is one of the
ablest Japanese career diplomats, and his personal
connections in America have deeply modified the
American point of view in numerous questions where
conflicts were possible."
Chevallier

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.96)
3
Chevallier considers that China itself is
showing more enthusiasm in its responses to Japanese
overtures. The boycott has been totally stopped
for some months, and it was recently reported on
good authority that official conversations were soon
to be opened for an accord concerning former Chinese
loans which have not yet been reimbursed as well as
new Japanese investments in China.
The original of the article quoted is enolosed.
Very respectfully,
anngoudawkon.
Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant.
Bnolosure: (in single copy)
1. Extract from IE TEMPS, April 23, 1934.
In quintuplicate
851.9111/6a
Copy to . I. C.
WD/ars

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.96)
Lettre du Japon
si la chose étalt
le ministre des
DELA GESTIO GOUVERENENT ATL
déjà des frulta
shington compte pa
biles de la carrière l
sonnelles dans les mitaux
(De notre correspondant particulier.)
Tokio, avril 1934.
nombreux points où un heurt étalt
Nous faisions rèmarquer en octobre dernier
Avec la Russie, les résultats sont p
tes encore, car, d'une situatión qua da
que la politique japonaise ne pouvait manquer
laient à ce point tendue que la guerre
dapparaftre à des yeux lointains de son champ
raissait comme inévitable à brève.éch
d'action que comme une suite imprévue et inaf-
ministre des affaires étrangères a fait rena
tendue de mouvements déroutant les calculs les
modys vivendi:presque cordial; les convéra
misux équilibrés, et nous en donnions comme
exemple le ministère Saito en danger alors que
ou, comme on l'appelle aulourd'hui, du
s majorité parlémentaire s'annonçait plus unie
fer de la Mandchourie du Nord ont repri
que jamais.
égide, avec un désir mutuel d'aböutir, et
Quelque déconcertant que cela puisse paraftre,
favorable n'apparalt plus malntenant
nous retrouvons aujourd'hui, six moís après, le
possible.
même gouvernement consolidé, car c'est éfre bien
La question des pécheries 'ira
en selle,que dé pouvoir, comme chacun l'admet,
sans diffloultés. La: thèse du Ja
soit y rester, soit décider en toute liberté d'en des-
fondement; sérieux, ear s'll
cendre.
Et pourtant, il a heurté sur cette route de'nom-
breuses pierres dont chacune aurait, dans d'au-
égalément certain que pendant dette m
tres circonstances, provoqué sa chute : son minis-
la monnaie russe a perdu dane: une
tre de la guerre, élément puissant, a dù partir,
presque égale: de son pouvoir: d'achat.
malade; son ministre du commerce s'en est allé
sous,la pression d'opinions historiques exprimées
prendre la question; il Insiste seulement
il y a dix ans, alors qu'il avait désarmé ses adver-
fait qu'un accord entre gouvernementa.res
saires et prouvé son honnéteté; le ministre de
téral, même si sa durée de validité est la
l'éducation nationale, à son tour, a dù céder devant
des accusations de malversations dont la commis-
sion d'enquéte chargée de les vériffer l'avait
san consulter l'autre.
cependant exonére.
La ussie semble bién avoir réconnua
Dès lors, on se doit demander pourguoi, ainsi
dans uge certaine mesure, la valeur
battu en brèche, ce gouvernement est resté et
gument, puisqu'on annonce que les: adju
surtout comment il se trouve maintenant plus
actuelles auront lieu aux anciennes con
confortablement assis dans la direction des affai-
Sans doute aussi, les soups de'f
res de l'Etat. L'opinion japonaise est, sur ce point,
un avion japonais survolant da from
presque unanime: la peur de l'inconnu tout d'abord
mandchoue, comme latterrissage fore
et ensuite le fait incontestable qu'il a montré qu'il
savait, à l'occasion, vouloir et agir.
Quelles que soient les critiques que d'on puisse
sont motifs de querelle, mais ce ne ot
toire mandchou d'un avlon de bombard
adresser à un chef, l'expérience et le bon sens
actuel, retarder sérieusement une ententes
montrent qu'il est rarement heureux de le chan-
de part et d'autre.
ger au moment où:ses troupes ont à faire face à
La Chine elle-mème semble vouloir
une situation grave, surtout s'il ne se trouve point,
avec plus d'enthousiasme aux ouvertur
sur son remplaçant, un consensus d'opinion absolu;
sont faites; depuis de longs mois déja la
les listes ministérielles circulent et les agences
a entièrement cessé, et ces foure-cl on
de presse ne se lassent point d'en produire de
nouvelles : ministères mi-parlementaires mi-bu-
s'engager officiellement en vue dar
reaucrates, ministères de nuance fasciste si l'on
accord concernant les emprunts chinal
peut n'entendre ce mot que comme caractérisant
non encore rembouraés et de nou
une mainmise plus forte de l'Etat sur l'individu.
ments japonais en Chine.
Mais encore, me disait-on tout récemment, que
Dans l'ordre financier, l'année bud
pourraient faire raisonnablement, en procédant
par étapes mesurées, de nouveaux hommes que
Banque du Japon conserve à peine trol
ne fasse le ministère actuel? Prenons un à un tes
lions de bons d'Etat et à malat
grands problèmes et voyons, en jugeant aux résul-
tats, ce qu'a réalisé ie présent gouvernement.
les dépôts atteignent plus
Tout d'abord, il est resté parlementaire, c'est-
demi, chiffre record; les dis
à-dire qu'il a largement consenti à consulter,
étaient le 15 mara de plus
comme le veut la Constitution gracieusement don-
tié en argent liquide
née par l'empereur Meijt, les représentants élus
de la nation; depuis deux moís, l répond à toutes
leurs interpellations, leur a donné les apaisendents
demandés dans la mesure où il le pouvait, a tenu
sions, de sorté que
compte de leurs observations et de leurs, sugges-
émis, bons potur la plup
quent detté demi-oon

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.96)
qpe preoontsent précisement mes advertates, man
ál le falt sans heurt, avec modératon et duuceur.
devra--on, cette année
Dans l'ordac Intéridur, sans doute n'a--!l pes
accepté le programme qu'on lui soumetlait de
mais tout donne à creire
reconstruire complètement le système fiscal applt
cable à la classe paysanne, de transférer la tota-
lité des dettes des paysans à l'Etal ou de les con-
verlir brutalement et en bloc, de faire monter
artifctellement le prix du riz de plus de trente
prunt que ces deraières pess
pour cent; il ne l'auralt pu sans provoquer une
avec la méme constanéé
véritable révolution sociale et mettre en danger
l'assise actuelle des finances japonaises : un vierl-
dans l'opinion
lard n'ayance pas par bonds, mais à pas comptés.
Parseoatre, il n'e pas écarté le problème comme
pou important ou insoluble; il a dit aux paysans :
& Le gorvernement croit qu'à agir ausst catégori-
demandées par s adé
vs certitude, apprécier l'incidence de mesures
nécessite votre concours et qui sera réalisé immé-
diatement. La production du riz cette année est
trop abondante. Réduire les surfaces arables cons-
titue une solution dangereuse pour l'avenir et
lourde financièrement, mais nous avons déterminé
un prix minimum, basé sur celui que vous dépen-
sez à le produire, et à ce prix le gouvernenient
vous l'achète. La Corée et Formose, encouragés à
développer leur production, ont maintenant des
surplus à écouler : ceux-là aussi nous les achetons,
afin qu'ils no viennent point troubler le marché
intérieur.
" La soie ne vaut plus que 250 yen or la balle,
alors qu'elle a valu jusqu'à 4.000 en 1918 et qui
y a à peine quelques années elle cotait encore
2,000 yen; les lois qui sont devant la Diète per-
mettront un controle des cocons, une organisation
rationnelle de la production et de l'exportation.
» Les engrais sont un élément imperfant des dé-
penses; une loi nous autorisera à en réglementer
la vente et, si c'est nécessaire, à en faire un mo-
nopole.
" Quant aux dettes,le taux de l'intérêt est tombé,
sous l'influence de ma politique, à 4 0/0, les ban-
ques qui sont chargées de vous accorder des em-
prunts soit de conversion, soit nouveaux, ont reçu
des disponibilités nouvelles, et ee problème se ré-
soudra progressivement.
» De votre coté, vous devez vous unir les uns les
autres, créer dans chaque village une collaboration
afin que votre travail attergne le rendement maxi-
mum et que vos dépenses de production soient
réduites.
La défense nationale a retenu toute l'attention
du ministère; sil a discuté pied à pied les de-
mandes de crédits qril recevait. il la fast par
devoir et pour alleger le fardeau de a nation;
mais tomes les sommes que le grand état-magor
lui a indiquées comme indhspensables, it les a ae-
cordées et les a fait voter par le Parlement sans
diminution ni moditication.
Le commerce japonais a connu, depuis deux ans
et surtout depuis t933, une extension étonnante;
sur tous les marchés, les produits de l'empire se
sont acquis une place privifégiée. Le gouvernement
n'a rien négligé pour consolider ces avantages :
d'une part, il a engagé avec les gouvernements
étrangers des négociations dans lesquelles il s'est
placé au-dessus des contingences imniédiates des
commerçants intéressés, pour les conduire dans un
esprit de conciliation et aboutir; un accord est in-
tervenu entre les Indes et le Japon, et les conver-
sations de Londres et d'Amsterdam se poursuivent;
d'autre part, il a obtenu des Chambres des pouvoirs
dictatoriaux en matière de politique douanière, qui
lui permettront de déterminer une ligne de
conduite une et suivic.
Dans l'ordre extérieur, le nouvel empire du
Mandchoukouo poursuit méthodiquement sa conso-
lidation, son budget est équilibré, ses ressources
grandissent; après de nombreux tatonnements, le
Japon semble bien avoir trouvé une formule de
collaboration économique dont les détails ne sont
sans doute pas encore réglés, mais qui assurera la
prospérité du nouvel Elat, non seulement sans
iroubles pour l'économio japonaise, mais en don-
nant à ce!le-ci une force nouvelle par l'apport
important de riohesses naturelles et de commerce.
De plus les puissances étrangères, suns modifier
officiellement le point de vue adopté depuis la dé-
cision de la Société des nations, montrent, à ne pas
pouvoir s'y tromper, des signes sinon de bienveil-
lance, du moins de neutralité moins hostile à
l'égard du Mandchoukouo. Le Japon comptait sur
l'appat des avantages économiques et commerciaux
du pays, et tout tend à montrer qu'il ne s'est pes
entièrement trompé. En fait, les avis les plus par-
tiaux s'accordent à admettre qu'une reconnaissance
offotelle n'apporterait pas, du point de vue ja-
ponais, un sppui nécessaire au nouvel empire; la
seule crainté que pouvait avoir le gouvernement
était de renoontrer, dans tous les domaines, un
bloc d'opposition compact, et cette orainte ne s'est
pas matérialtsée.
Les Etats-Unis proclament que leur attitude n's
 mala dnalalaralantatle Lant à la dine

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.95)
SUBJECT OR
DATE DUE
FILE NO.
894.00
2/10/52
DATE OF DOC.
DOC. NO.
SECURITY CLASS.
DATECHARGED
x0/1652
TOIFROM
ENCLOSU
CHARGE AO
OFFICE
hale
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
(Signaturé)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GPO

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.83)
of
RECEIVED
MAY 2 1934
D.mted
Sorie 25, 'su.
Dean Mm. Sscretany,
as Foreijn Adveion to The
894.00
Japanne Foverumsut ana a menuber of
the Japanere Delegationo 6 the Maotingion
Coxperinee ana the League oftratons, 
G
have a knowledge ans mudero taading
8
of whan is in theis minas at the
presant tinie such as few if any
othen Aumeniano have. I have had
occarion to taraoh out in detail.
13
with theis leadeing statermen, the men
nowe eis authority, heir problenes
with the M. S. and China. as the
prerent tence, though I ace still
there, I ann noh conniched wth 
ui any may. Ih eens to me, teore,
hat d might, only ao an siefornisa
ancerecan, giive you au isighh aa
6 what is in thein minds thar
mught be rauable i the sitat
% bost countrris. of you Rick

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.87)
this nighh be of ure, to you mye
is an your dioporal fon a perional
and conjiduutial dis cursion.
as I am noh known t you
perronally I nught add That
ane kuown 5 Robert 5. O'Dnen,
alas
Freaerich Delano, ava, Charler E. Hughes,
witt- whoue & cooperated ie Far
Easteon mallers white he was Secrstary
of dtate.
I ame, sir, Youns respecsfully,
Freamick Noore
Honorable
Conaele n. Hull.

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.96)
Dc
April 27, 1934.
Dear Mr. Moore:
Mr. Hull has asked that I acknowlodge the reeeipt
of your letter of April 25, addressed to him, in rogard
to the question of a personal and confidential diseussion
with him on the subject of what is in the mind of the
Japanese at the present time.
Mr. Hull will be glad to see you in his offiee on
Tuesday. May 1. at 4: 30 p. m.
Sincerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
(leveland 8610
Mr. Frederiok Moore.
3117 Thirty-fifth Street,
Washington, D. C.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal.FE
S
FE: MNH: REK
FE

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00
893.00/12739
Memorandum
SEE
FOR
55
State Dept.
FROM
Far Eastern Division
Hamilton
-) DATED
May 4,1934.
tφ111
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Political affairs and general conditions in Japan:
Mr.Janta, of the "Gazeta Polska" and Polish Telegraph
Agency,cal led at Department and in a conversation
with Mr.Packer and Mr.Hamilton,of Department,gave
his impressions and observations on these subjects
following a trip to the Far East. He found conditions
in Japan bad,wi th constant trouble between Japanese
military and Japanese civilian and industrial elements.
8
b
f
fpg
O
0

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
JUN 71934
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOTE
May 21, 1934
AY 25 1934
DEPARTMENI OF SIAJE
General Kzunari Ugaki has probably
"developed" more strikingly than any other
Japanese in political life in recent years.
General Ugaki first appeared in politics
in 1924, when he was nominated to the post of
Minister of War by General Baron Tanaka, both
of these officers being members of the Choshu
clan. Before that time General Ugaki had
been Inspector of Military Education, and it
may be assumed that, having the approval of
General Tanaka, he was supposed to have been
a typical Choshu reactionary. After entering
the Cabinet he showed pronounced political
talent, and being associated in the Govern-
ment with such liberal statesmen as Shidehara
and Hamaguchi, his political views took on a
distinctly liberal coloring. When General
Governor General of Korea because of certain
financial scandals, General Ugaki was sent
to Korea. His record in Korea has been so
favorable that the Minseito has persistently
endeavored to secure General Ugaki's consent
to accept the Presidency of the party. Hehas
thus far refused to associate himself with
any political party. It will also be recalled
that General Ugaki has some following in the
Japanese Army, comprising those who are not
in

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2-
in sympathy with the predominant reactionary
element.
We do not know at the moment precisely
what General Ugaki's political views are,
but I should be disposed to believe that,
ahe has consented to accept the premier-
ship, he has "shaded" his views to the ex-
tent of making himself acceptable to the
Militarists. However, he has shown himself
to be a liberal by instinct, and he is
supposed to be a man of unusual character
and energy. His appointment would not
therefore necessarily mean a retrogression
from the attitude and policies of his
predecessor.
FE:HD:DLY

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PT
This tologram must be
FROM
closoly paraphrasod bo-
TOKYO
foro boing communicatod
to anyono (A)
Datod May 21, 1934
F/ESP
Roc'd. 5.20 a.m.
894.00
no
007
894.
Socrotary of Stato,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington
MAY 2: 1934
Dapertmat of Shato
894.00/5
96, May 21, 4 p.m.
Tho rocont arrost of Kuroda, Vice Ministor of
Financo, and othor officals of tho Ministry of Financo
on chargos of bribory is likoly to bring about tho fall.
of tho prosont Cabinot, Saito, having takon offico as a
5
supor party man and with tho primary purpose of oliminating
political corruption from tho Govornmont, is rogardod as
that
having failod in
n .. ondoavor. Tho Cabinet has furthor-
more lost prostigo as lacking initiativo and forco and
has boon woakonod by successivo rosignations. Saito's
most likoly successor is Conoral Ugaki, now Govornor
Gonoral of Koroa. If tho Cabinot should fall it is
gonorally boliovod that Hirota and Hayashi would romain
in any now Govornmont that might bo formod. I oxpoct to
obtain furthor light on tho situation within tho not
FILED
8
1
fow days.
69
314
GREW
RR
WSB

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 21, 1934
SE
Tokyo's Despatch No. 776 of May 5,
1934, reports the appointment of Baron Ikk1
as President of the Privy Council.
The Despatch, which is well worth
reading in full, does not call for
particular comment except for the statement
that the precedent, "that the vice-president
is promoted to the Presidency upon the
resignation of the former incumbent", has
been broken before on one or two occasions,
notably when Baron Hamao was appointed
President of the Privy Council upon the
resignation of Count Kiyoura in 1924.
人

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 5, 1934.
No. 776.
Subject:
Appointment of Baron Kitokuro Ikki as
President of the Privy Council.
DE
894.00
Division of
MAY 19 34
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NO
(:)
MAY 21 1934
Depertment of State
894.00/516
OF STATE
For Distribution-C
Gondo
0
Per
IuCSA
ONI
E40
SSAY
COPIES SENT 1O
The Honorable
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that on May 3 Baron
Yuzaburo Kuratomi resigned because of ill health from his
post as President of the Privy Council and was immediately
succeeded by Baron Kitokuro Ikki, former Privy Councillor,
M
Cabinet Minister, and Minister of the Imperial Household
FILED
3
There is no reeson to believe that the cause of Baren
19
Kuratomi's resignation was other than the ostensible one of
ill health. He is an old man of 8l with failing eyesight
and

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
and hearing and is said to have expressed his desire
to retire some time ago. The appointment of his suc-
cessor is believed to have been made with the approval, if
not at the behest of the Genro, Prince Saionji, who is
now in Tokyo for the first time in two years. According
to the press, the highest statesmen of the Empire have all
been cognizant of Baron Kuratomi's impending resignation
and, after several conferences, also decided to recommend
Baron Ikki. There is already evidence that the appointment
is meeting with the approval of politicians, the press,
and the nation as a whole.
While the post of President of the Privy Council is
one of vital importance, the choice of Baron Ikki is at-
tracting unusual attention because it was made in violation
of the standing precedent that the Vice-President is promoted
to the Presiaency upon the resignation of the former in-
cumbent. At the present time Baron Hiranuma is Vice-Pre-
sident of the Privy Council. He has been mentioned in all
recent political crises as a possible successor to Premier
Saito, he has the reputation of being identified with fascist
and reactionary organizations, and it is hinted that he
brought a political flavor to the Privy Council not only
incompatible with the super-political traditions of that
body but also embarrassing to the present government. Ac-
cordingly the appointment of Baron Ikki is hailed not only
because of that individual's reputation for erudition, pro-
bity, and ability but also as an astute move which till tend
to weaken the fascist movement and to strengthen the position
of the Saito Cabinet. It is perhaps concrete evidence that
the

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the Genro and the leading statesmen close to the Emperor
are determined to preserve the life of the Saito Cabinet,
and it is also an exemplification of the scrupulous care
with which the Throne is preserved, through the appointment
of disinterested advisers, from all direct association with
politics.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
JGP:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
In quintuplicate to the Department.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/6692
FOR ..
894.00/517
FROM
Nanking
Peck
.) DATED
Apr11 16,1934
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Reports pressure by the Japanese army of the Japanese
Government in connection with resignation of the War
Minister and demands of the Army in form of reforms,
political and economic.
esp

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/
893.00/12746
#2678
SEE
FOR
China
Johnson
Apr11 20,1934
FROM
--) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
5
8
REGARDING:
Comments on "Notes on China" and "Notes on Japan" by Mr.
F.P.Miller.
Encloses -,made by Mr.Johnson and Mr.Peck.
6
A
esp

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.96)
May 18 1984
0.521
The Honorable
Joseph O. Grew,
CA
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.00/518A
S1r:
894.0
The annual review for 1933 of political reports of
consular officers has indicated that no consular officer
in Japan proper submitted a sufficient number of political
reports to form a basis for rating.
It 1s requested that you invite the attention of oon-
-ular officers in Japan to the foregoing fact and that you
inform them that, although the Department realizes that the
opportunities for political reporting by ooasular offieers
in Japan are comparatively limited, the Department feels
that the opportunities whioh exist are mot being wtilised
to the fullest advantage. In so doing, please refer to
paragraph 439 of the Consular Regulatioms.
It is suggested that the Embassy might with admmatage
indicate in a general way to the censular efficers the
charaster of the informatien desired and issme from time te
time instructione to individual offiess with regard to
developments within the respeetive eemsular distsiete shse
sheald be attentively folleved. Gemsular effteems shetd

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
of course in compiling sueh reperts ezereise the msmims
of diseretion and avoid activities whieh would prejedtes
their standing with the Japanese anthorities.
very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
FEEBD:DLY
FE
A-0/9
N.m.W.
Au
MAY 16,1984PM

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RECEIVED
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
1—1836
JUN 9 1934
FROMW
MP
AUN - 1934
DIVISION OF
This teawegram mustbe
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
to anyone (A)
Tokyo
Dated June 9, 1934
894.00
894.00/519
Rec'd 2:06 a.m.
noti
Secretary of State,
994.002
Washington.
515
121, June 9, 1 p.m.
My 96, May 21, 4 p.m.
Present indications are that the Ugaki
candidature to succeed Saito has collapsed largely
due to army and navy opposition and that the present
Cabinet may remain with the possible resignation of
Takahashi. The situation bowever has not yt
crystallized.
JUN 1 4 1934
FILED
GREW
GW
CSB

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
J08-1934
RECEIVED
JUN 9 1934
SECRETARY OF STATE
May 84, 1934.
JUN 8 1934
NOTED
Mr. sooretary:
Officers of this Division are of the opinion that
no changes of personnel in the Japanese Government will
substantially alter, in the near future, Japan's
894.00/520
foreign policy. Such changes may bring about changes
in strategy and tactics but not, except over a consider-
able period of time, in objeotives or in the general
outlook and attitude of the Japenese people.
SKt
894.00
TLED
9 193
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.97)
NOTON
7EL I  DEPARTMENT OF STATE
June 6, 1934.
Mr. Phallips:
Mr. Socretary:
I think that you will find of extra-
ordinary interest Mr. Grew's letter to
Consul Gilbert on the subject of the situation
in Japan and Japan's policy.
I feel moved also to express high
appreciation or the typical example of excel-
lent reporting which is afforded in Consul
Gilbert's despatch 858 Political of March 28,
1934, to whioh Mr. Grew refers and of which
a copy is attached.
SKH
JUN 19 1934
NOTER
FE:SKH/ZK

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.85)
DEPARTMENELEET
Divledbn o
PAN EASTERN AEFAIRS
JUN 15 1934
JUN 5-183
LIVINON OP
444.00
Deer Mr. Gilberts
I askeledge with thanks the reseipt of 
letter of April s, together with a copy of your striesty
confidential despaton No. sse Pelitieal, dated Barsa s,
lese, which I have reaé vish grest Laterest. In emsmer
to your letter and in complianee wish the suggestiem
sontaimed therein I sball endeater to outlime brierty
the present pelitieal sisuetion here with partienlaz
reference to the Japenese ettitude towards imternstiogal
cooperation both at present and in relatlon to the basio
Jspanese policy of dominmtlmg East kmis. I ecelese alse
à list of subjects, espées of cur dompasyhee an mmtes
etee
i5 not , of these.

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.81)
the peiis 
merrent in the Japanese press - fer the waempewate as
matil dets by diploy er Mry ipeta
Is psomotine his palicy ef coneiliation mirete has
shown fores and sbility. Re came into office lass
September st a moment when the pesaulmm of publie feeline
was tanding to resume the sorn. Alreedy miratorá, the
asgrossive spexesmen of the Poreign asflse, bad bomm
farced out. The resigmation of Couat Dahica mes in
Itself & blow to military inflnence. withim s few wesks
commeneed the momentous "Five Minister's Canformee"
at which Hirots by confrontins Areki with pure commom
semse is believed to have won his plodge mst to imter
fere in mtters or fareisn poliey. Ant n in Jamary
Arakí htasels, the higt priest or she mry ul
fond ne cuald not rodoen the planee he d mdete
h e
o

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.88)
siaseraly, to creste a friendly besis n i 
vith Chime, Soviet Rassis, Grent Britainy me the Maitus
States. Mis hand was manifest in an immedfate tonting
dom of anti-foreimism in the prosd) is was revealed in
the ronewed efforts to solve the curremt preblems betweem
Japen and Soviet Russia one by ene) and it was eghasisms
to me in conversations in which Rirota shoved as eagate
ness to explore any possible svemue which mpuld leed to
an improvement in American-Japanese relations. Certain
poople considered him a cenuine liberal and the strengest
Foreign Ministas since Komure and Knte.
Levertasless, many believe Hireta's moderatie to
tainly m ase couid have  tate oriee La po 
be me ldged to ers Japen's mia 

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.88)
dapenese Geveramnt finds it difriealt to ad for the
porld's rtendahip vith anything mare teagtblo th 
Ome sammot avoid the suspioion thes at hears a geeat meng
bere - m mignt even say a majority - view the treaties
and interuational cemmitments to whicn Japen is a party
as just mo mamy obstacles in the path to Bmpire, of
courre there are rensonable-minded clements, end the
older statesmen, Saionji, Meximo, and ethers mhe inflmenes
the Thrane, do not share these somewhat wmsermpulome viems
without many resrrvations, but they ere old men aad we
semmot count on their restraining Lnflmence mmeh Lenger.
It is simply thet the wation, with the goel in sight,
is relwetent to admit thet the peried of censelidatied,
esstemary after eash vare of Jayanese expanstons is mw
in the best interests ef the ooustry.
It immediately somes to mind that this insmpats
Mlty been the desire of irote to i fede 

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.84)
t to ite polies of
ropreasnts the comeime policy of the Devernmeats is
happens, as a mtter of fnct, that the origimel Amom
statement was an instruotion to Japans eiplemmtic
representatives abroad and that its publie ammoumeement
dtd not have the approtal of the Foralm Minister, bat
this sireumstance is beside the point. Japan has re
vealod herself *s firmly opposed - smy what ahe may -
to the objects and parmses of the Mine Pewer Tresty
and the efforts of the Lengue of Batfons to sxtend
international (sn: Gocidental) assistanee to China. Im
) faet, I believe that it was largely the work of Rajehmn
and Honnet that worrled the Foredgn Ofrics intc iasuing
sash iastrmctions for the guidanee of its Minister in
Chime and other representatives alsesbere.
With Soviet Rassis Japen is tryins to kemg the
pesse at preseat, Véowins the siteatide frem Tage
esther side as any s a
Ladtent ta Jaen  e  
t te tamsent werfare. Par the tie be t bt
 d ly feer a frentier tms f

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.87)
mastion, the rublo eesse ih
evidntly gmime desire to rmove thm from e 
progresn has been very halting and bian faix to 
so. The remers that the 0.6.&.R. is costemylating
jainins the League nave not aroused sreat attemtiom here
although sneh comvents as have come to light interpret
the stop as prampted by comsiderations of mational safe-
ty. Undoubtedly the Japsnese real: se that the Leaguets
influence in the Fer Bast would be strengthened by the
entry of tho Soviets, but the possibality peems too
remote to have aroused any great degree of apprehensiom
as yet. Incicentelly the Sovlet Ambeseader rocently told
se thist ho hed mo reason to belisve that Soviet Bursin
wms sbout to join the League but snat be did not know
wbst might some about in future.
So far as the question of a memreggressien peet
beteen the U.... and Japan is ncered, Hirete be
stated tst it is his palley first to remve the i
the utie ef l pt I  v 
y

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.88)
foe contimming their eppositim
your despetch outliaing the positiom mhtch Japen is takdng
at the present time in Gmeme, amaly, the wish 
represented on League bodies in retarn for Japansée eed
operatiom, the alternative being withdraval from all
Leagme treaties. Writing from Tekye I shoule be imslined.
to question the valte of Japanese ceoperation in the
first place (emmept in social matters smch as marestiese
sontrol) oving to the erelusive chareoter of Japaneme
ambitions in the Far Bast, end in the seeend plese I
should question whether wishdrawal frem all besgue
tresties would crente a situatiom entirely distastefal
to the majerity of the Japanese people, That the techate
al nd pelitil dirriltice invalv in rin 
septase of the Japasese rertion ahould de 

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.90)
paid pabliclys
eur propesition havisg been rejested by  P
tained close cooyeratien for so mmy yearme we
that step was one wbieh Japsn perferoe had to make
in order that we aight fulrill our mission and
remponsibilities in Mast Asis."
Any Jayenese Government mhich attempted to retain
Japan's mombership in the League wonld sourt the danger
of demying Japan's "mirsion and responsibilities in
Bast Asis" - one of the terms in whieh the eonvictiem
of Je,an's "Manifest Destiny" is expressed. If, moms
Japants secession frox the Lesgue aad League activities
should be definitive, it would of course carry with it
the faovitatle corellery that depen weuld be estopped
maigelatian of the balamte of pesee.

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.78)
d ret pan 
y, re
h
theethee 
hliberel, pererty ere to the 
Remping the Goverament in yover in the faee of dlaants
safactien in many quarters. Sheule thay fril in the
mear fiture the succeeding Gaver ment woule almsèe
inevitably be mere resetiomary. Tor the roal ead
the coustry they mmst held on as Long as peseibles D
any event, the mantle of government will not again fall
on the generation which was at the halm when Japan pese
to the pesition of I world powey. We shell soener or
laser be seriomaly coneerned as to whether the new
conrstien will it itelf esstelly he 
athi prl ry
JOSEPH C G

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.86)
1.1.
Gaglee of Stasegts despetee
sabjests are sent to the Lagation at Berss.
Japanese statement of reliey tewaré fare
assistanee to Chime.
Mandate Islends.
Luague of Asistic Peoples.
Disarmement Conferemoe.
Foreign Poliey of Japan (Despatch No. asl,
August e, 19ss).
J.pan and the beague of Mations.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.75)
tile
Diviston of
FREDERICK MOORE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
MAY 29 1934
11194
Dapertamest of State
7540/513
Is v 1er  he secretary
ir tste woul ee  +. mesd,  Ist.
eiini
rt vi it,tvet, isaiie, 
tuoie e  euiest ne t t
tteetive the
 ur,
894.00/522
i. delti bae eric rers paa uolic.
.mur t ese vtn a mich
uia aot Pulrili.d
ieto in  in op
sit
vi,e e eelis s i
we lin wit t e reesoneple elelents in an y
e mrise trel re Priemaly co ualc tions ratner
c etrer
st   t tis ts ev
l t o  t' .
t resre,  r. u  s iadness in
erin t seee  it is unsscesanr fur
 so to
are sincerely.
F. Moore
5
C
stanle . ompee, -s.
t. f tte.

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.87)
2157
April 27, 1934.
Dear r. Oor
"r. ull hee anxed that I soknowledge the receipt
of your letter of  pril 25, accreesed to him, in regard
to the question of a pereonal and confidential dimemsaien
with him on thc eubjoot of what is in the mind of the
Japanece at the precont time.
r.  il will be lso to aco yon in hie ffieo on
incorely youre,
Stanley X. Hermbeok.
ohiof.
vivieion of Far Kastern Affeirs.
Mr. frederior deere,
3l17 Thirty-fifth street.
ashingten, D. C.
PEAEIREX

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 20, 1934
SKCH
You will be interested to read the
attached despatch No. 814 of June 1, 1934,
from the Embassy at Tokyo, reporting on the
domestic political situation. The Embassy
seems to feel that the discovery of serious
irregularities by responsible officials in
the Finance Department will render "it almost
impossible for the Cabinet to continue in
office", for the reason that the Saito Govern-
ment was established expressly to eliminate
"graft" among public servants. The Embassy
notes the prediction that the Cabinet will
fall about the middle of June.
Count Makino and Prince Saionji are en-
deavoring to keep the present Government in
office lest it be succeeded by a fascist or
military government. The Embassy refers to
the rumor that Prince Konoye, who is supposed
to have reactionary tendencies, was induced
to leave Japan in order that it might not be
possible for the reactionary element to
gather about him and so set up a "fascist"
government.
Of the various persons named as likely
to succeed Viscount Saito as premier, the
despatch mentions the names of Count Kiyoura
and General Ugaki. In a recent telegram, the
Embassy reported that the candidacy of General
Ugaki had apparently collapsed. The other
leading

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
leading candidate, Count Kiyoura, is one
of the last of the old-time bureaucrats,
and as such he is intensely disliked by
the political parties. Although the political
parties have lost standing, they cannot be
completely ignored; and I would be surprised
if he were to be ordered to organize a new
government to succeed that of Viscount Saito.
The key to the situation seems to be the
Minister of Finance, Mr. Takahashi. If he
decides that he can remain in office without
undue loss of "face", it is qe unlikely
that there may be no change of government in
the immediate future.
not
FE:E:DLY

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 1, 1934.
No. 814.
Subject:
Internal Political Situation in Japan.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.J. AND M. I.D.
REC
M RECD
UN1864
Division of.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS QOYW
UN 19 1934
894.00/523
Department of State
4Gile
A-C/V
J0L2-1934
ONI
MID
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
515
I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 96,
of
May 21, 4 p.m., in which I stated that, owing to various
causes, it appeared probable that the Saito Cabinet would
Tr
fall in the near future, and to submit the following b-
FILED
servations and comments on the present political situation
1934
in Japan.
The Saito Cabinet, which, it will be remembered, was
formed after the assassination of Premier Inukai on May 15,
1932, as a super-party government designed to eliminate the
obvious

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
obvious corruption of the political parties, has
been considerably weakened in recent months by a series
of failures to satisfy the needs of the nation. The
farming oopulation is still crying loudly for relief,
while the Saito Cabinet seems unable to devise ant
practical measures of relief. The failure of the
Government to raise silk prices renders the outlook
very gloomy for millions of silk-worm raisers. While
national finances are in a better position than they
were a year ago, because of an increase in revenue
br ught about tnrough stimulated trade, the budget
recently passed by the Diet was unbalanced and will
require the isruance of large amounts of "red-ink"
bonds, and the C: binet is being censured for its
failure to adjust the national finances. Five mem-
bers of the Cabinet have resigned since its inception,
and each resignation tends to weakeh the C binet.
of
the five resignations, that of Mr. Hatoyama, the
Minister for Education, was the most serious, as the
Premier has been unable to find a successor to Mr.
Hatoyama nd is himself holding the portfolio. As a
result, the Department of Education is in a turmoil
and the nation is demanding reform of the educational
system.
Complaints have bee. heard on all sides, moreover,
that the Cabinet lacks initiative and force, that it
is following a weak-kneed and compromising foreign policy,
that it has not the strength to meet the anticipated
"crisis" in 1935-1936, and that it should step down and
make room for a stronger Cabinet better fitted to serve
the

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the needs of the nation vhen the storm comes. These
complaints originate principally with the Seiyukai,
the majority party, which itself vainly hopes to seize
the governmental reins, and with the reactionaries,
who as usual demand a strong and positive policy.
With the Cabinet thus weakened, the discovery
of corruption in the Finance Department, resulting
in the arrest of several officials, including the Vice
Minister of Fincnce, rendered it almost impossible for
the Cabinet to continue in office. This scandal arose,
it appears,from the transfer of certain securities
held by the B nk of Taiwan (being a part of the property
of the defunct Suzuki Shoten, which failed disastrously
in 1927) to various individuals at less than their
market value. The scandal was kept hidden, although
it was generally known to the nevspapers, which re-
ferred to it as a "serious affair", until ay l8th, when
the press ban on the publication of the news was lifted
and Mr. Kuroda, the Vice Minister of Finance, was formally
arrested. The reactionaries demand that Mr. Takahashi,
the Minister of Finance, should accept responsibility
for the misconauct of his subordinates and demonstrate
his sense of responsibility by resigning. If Mr. Taka-
hashi resigns, it is almost certain that the Cabinet
will fall. It is generally predicted in the newspapers
that the Cabinet's fall will occur about the middle of June.
The

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
The deviation from the straight and narrow path
of the officials of the Finance Department is especially
serious, as the Saito Cbinet was inducted in 1932 for the
express purpose of abolishing graft in governmental offices,
or, as the euphonistic phrase is in Japan, of "maintaining
official discipline". The Cabinet's failure to enforce
"official discipline" is therefore generally regarded
as the final blow to its prestige and to its continued
existence.
There is no doubt but that Prince Saionji, the only
surviving Genro, nd Count Makino, Lord Privy Seal, are
doing everything in their power to maintain the Saito
Cabinet in office. It appears that they (and presumably
V
the Emperor) desire a reasonably conservative Government
at the present time, when Japan is facing many problems
in its foreign relations and needs to "sit tight" in order
to consolidate its gains on the Asiatic Continent. They
fear a "fascist", or radical reactionary government, as
much as they fear a military government. It is rumored
in Tokyo (and the rumors certainly seem plausible) that
energetic steps vere taken by Prince Saionji and Count
Makino to prevent a "fiscist" Cabinet coming into power
when it seemed inevitable that the Saito Cabinet would
fall. As a first step, they suppressed the news of the
scandal in the Finance Ministry for a month and a half
or two months , until other steps had been taken. They
o
then caused the appointment of Dr. Ikki as President of
kiicbas
the Privy Council, in place of Baron Hiranuma, the Vice
President, who should normally have been raised to the
position of President. Baron Hiranuma is one of the
leaders

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
leaders of the reactionaries and is their candidate for
the Premiership. Passing Dr. Ikki over Baron Hiranuma's
head, as was done, caused him to lose prestige and made
it impossible for him to become Premier in the near future.
The next step, according to the rumors, was to get Prince
Konoe out of Japan, as Prince Konoe has in the past acted
as a stepping-stone between the conservatives and the re-
actionaries, with whom he is suid to be in sympathy. If
he should be in J pan when the Saito C binet falls, cortain
reactionary elements might rally around him and use his
influence to set up a "fascist" Cabinet. Consequently
Prince Konoe w s induced to leave for the United States, and
on the day following his departure, the press ban on the
scandal in the Finence Ministry was lifted nd the present
Cabinet crisis was permitted to develop.
With the "fascist" leaders thus disposed of, only two
men appear as of sufficient influence and prestige to be
candidates fo: the Premiership. One is Count Kiyoura, ex-
Premier and a statesman of kmown ability and integrity. He
is eighty-four yeurs old, however, and it is not thought that
he has the strength to carry the nation over the "dengerous
period"head.
The other is General Ugaki, lat present Governor
General of Korea, several times War Minister, and an able and
highly-respected statesman. His name is the more prominently
mentioned as Premier Saito's successor, and he has the support
of the liberal elements in Japan, as well as of the business
and industrial leaders. He is, however, opposeu by the extreme
militarists

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
militarists, both in the Army and the Navy, because of
his inclination toward disarmament at the time of the
Washington Naval Conference. The spokesman for the Navy
Department stated on May 31 that "the Navy as a whole is
not necessarily opposed to an Ugaki Cabinet", thereby
creating a furore in naval circles, because apparently
a considerable section of the Navy is oonosed to.Ugaki.
(Rear Admiral Sakano, the spokesman for the Navy Depart-
ment resigned on June 1, because of the objections to his
statement) In spite of this opposition, however, it appears
at the moment that General Ugaki is the most likely can-
didate for the Premiership in the event of the downfall
of the Saito C:binet.
The political parties are still out of the picture,
partly because the public was disgusted with their endeavors
to gain political power when they should have been considering
the public welfare during the last session of the Diet, and
partly because the Seiyukai, the majority party and the only
one in a position to form a Cabinet, is so split with internal
dissension that it is powerless. The Seiyukai, however, will
probably use its influence, such as it is, &gainst General
Ugaki, who has long been known to have Minseito affiliations.
It is significant that both Count Kiyoura and General
Ugaki have come to Tokyo, arriving on May 3lst. It is believed,
however, that no visible political strings will be pulled until
after the funeral of Admiral Togo, on June 5th.
Respectfully yours,
SonfIt. fe
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Legation,
Joseph C. Grew.
Peiping.
Copy to Legation, Berne.

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
FAR EASTAFFAIRS
1-1836
FROM
JUN27 1934
MET
GRAY
Department of State
Tokio
Dated June 27, 1934
Rectd 6:45 a.m.
894.00/524
Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.00
136, June 27, 3 p.m.
noe
894
Indications are becoming increasingly strong that
tho Saito Cabinot will bo compellod to resign en blo
within a short tile. As no successor to Saito accept-
able to all factions can be found it is probable that
the Cabinet will be reconstituted with Saito as Premier.
GREW
RR-HPD
JUN29
FILED
3
F/G

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAÍRS
JS
GRAY
1—1836
FROM
TOKYO
Dated July1934
Rec'd 6:18 am.
Secretary of State,
894.00/525
Washington, D.C.
1417 Ju1y 3, 4 p m.
894.00
Saito cabinet resigned en bloc today. It is
nit
generally believed that a new cabinet will not be
894.00
formed for several days.
GREW
JS
JUL 6-1934
FILHID
F

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.97)
8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
U
July 11, 1934.
Mr. Phillips:
I concur in the view expressed in
Mr. Hamilton's comment: the view that the
despatch overemphasizes the trend toward
liberalism.
There undoubtedly is "a trend toward
liberalism"; but the probability is that
progress in that direction will be slow,
and it is to be hoped that it will be, --
for, if liberalism made rapid gains and
appeared in any way to threaten the position
of control which the military element have
gained and the militaristic attitude which
the people have acquired, there would be
great likelihood that the aggressives and
the "younger men" in the Army and Navy
would precipitate some drastic course of
action in order to combat and toward defeat-
ing the swing toward liberalism.
FE:SKH/DLY

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 5, 1934
SKH
2121.
Tokyo's despatch No. 83l of June 14,
1934, is opportune as well as an interest-
ing report on the internal political
situation in Japan. Some of the information
contained in this desp&toh was used in the
preparation of my memorandum on the appoint-
ment as Premier of Admiral Okada.
You will note that Prince Saionji,
aided by Count Makino, has been working
quietly but very subtly to put Liberal person-
ages in key positions. I recommend that the
despatch be read carefully in full.
The despatch refers to the production
by the Minister of Finance of the theory of
"divided responsibility". This is more than
a theory. Each Cabinet Officer, so far as the
laws and ordinances go, is an officer inde-
pendent of the Prime Minister, for he owes
responsibility in theory only to the Emperor.
Several years ago Dr. Midzuno, then Minister
of Education, refused to put his resignation
in the hands of the Prime Minister and so
accept responsibility for some affair that
took place in his Department. He insisted
upon presenting his resignation directly to
the Emperor.
In stating

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
In stating that the Mitsui and
Mitsubishi are affiliated with the political
parties, the Embassy is taking note of a
story which seems to have acquired as much
hardihood as the old story about Japanese
banks employing Chinese cashiers. The
story arose from the fact that Count Kato
and Baron Shidehara married daughters of
the former head of Mitsubishi. A director
of Mitsui, in commenting on the story,
stated to me that it would be suicidal for
either of these two firms to be tooclosely
allied with either one party or the other,
and that, therefore, Mitsui, and he assumed
Mitsubishi, made the practice of contributing
heavily to both parties.
Generally speaking, Japanese concerns
with important interests outside of Japan
have been "liberal" in their attitude on
international relations. The outstanding
spokesman for this class,of course, was
Mr. Inouye,who was assassinated when
Minister of Finance.
FE:HAD:DLY

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 14, 1934.
No. 831.
Subject:
Internal Political Situation in Japan.
COPIES SENT TO
894.00
994.002
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
EnD
894.00/526
L3 1934
C
34
RECO
Department of State
EN
SECRETARY
12 1934
3E
1934
DIV
UL ARTMENT OFSIATE
For Distribution-Check
No
ASEVISTANT
ON
DEPARTMENT OF STA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
JUL16193
FILED
Washington.
sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 814
523
dated June 1, 1934, discussing the difficulties which
are besetting the Saito Cabinet, and to my telegram No.
519
121 June 9, 1 p.m., stating that the Ugaki boom had
collapsed and that there were indications that the Saito
Cabinet would not fall in the immediate future.
During the past two weeks, in internal political
acl
circles in Japan, there appears to have been a decided
clips
trend toward liberalism and internationalism, as opposed
to

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
to fascism and ultra-nationaliam, and toward parliamen-
tarism, as opposed to a dictatorship.
The very astute
move made by Prince Saionji, the sole surviving Genro,
and by Count Makino, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, in
appointing Baron Dr. Ikki to the Presidency of the Privy
Council over the head of Baron Hiranuma, the Vice President
and a reactionary leader, apparently has had much greater
repercussions in political circles than was thought likely
at first. It not only succeeded in removing Baron Hira-
numa from the list of candidates for the Premiership (at
least for the time being) and giving "fascism" a blow from
which it will not recover for some time, but it is also
regarded as distinctly a victory for parliamentarism and
the more liberal elements in Japan. According to reports,
Prince Saionji is said to be in favor of substituting the
President of the Privy Council, the Lord Keeper of the
Privy Seal and the Lord Ghamberlain for the Genro, upon
his death. He has now succeeded in putting three men,
all of whom are advocates of liberalism, internationalism
and parliamentarism, in these three posts.
Baron Dr.
V
Ikki, a man of pronounced liberal views (he was marked for
assassination by the reactionaries in l932) holds the post
N-bou
of President of the Privy Council; Count Makino, Lord
Keeper of the Privy Seal, is well-known as a friend of
liberalism and parliamentarism and an implacable enemy
Kartan
of ultra-militarism and fasoim; and Admiral suzuki,
Lord Ohamberlain, is known as an advocate of disarmament
and cooperation with other nations.) (Prince Konoye, if
the plans of the leaders of the government in Japan material-
ize, will eventually become Genro, but as he is still a
fairly

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
fairly young man and cannot be expected to assume the
position of a Genro for fifteen or twenty years to come,
arrangements are apparently being made for the above-named
statesman to fill his future position in the interim.)
The appointment of Dr. Ikki is also said to be a
victory for the pro-London Naval Treaty group; indeed
the three men, Count Makino, Admiral Suzuki, and Dr. Ikki,
who are believed to uphold the fairness and justice of the
London naval agreement, are in positions of great influence.
It is also reported that Premier Saito, who apparently was
connected with the appointment of Dr. Ikki to his present
post, by that act aligned himself with the group of inter-
nationalists and against the ultra-nationalists. In short,
the appointment of Dr. Ikki to the Presidency of the Privy
Council, in the opinion of observers of the political world,
marks a forward step in the struggle between liberalism and
internationalism on the one side and ultra-nationalism and
militarism on the other.
The growing consciousness in political circles of
the victory won by the forces of liberalism seems to have
had a reaction favorable to the Saito Cabinet. It is
still believed that under certain circumstances the Saito
Cabinet will be compelled to resign, but apparently every
effort is being made to retain the Cabinet in power. If
the charges against the Vice Minister of Finanee turn out
to be justified, Mr. Takahashi, the Finance Minister,
according to statements released recently, will take the
responsibility for the misdeeds of his subordinate and
resign, but Mr. Takahashi has produced the theory of
"divided responsibility". According to this theory, the
responsibility

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
responsibility for the misconduct of governmental employees
need be assumed only by the minister concerned and need
not be assumed, as in the past, by the entire cabinet.
On the other hand it is questionable whether Premier Saito
will consent to continue in office without the support of
his old friend and adviser, Mr. Takahashi. The nation,
however, seems to be unable to find a successor to vis-
count Saito, should he be compelled to resign.
Apropos of this situation, it is regarded as signifi-
cant that the charges against the Vice Minister of Finance,
which have led to the present Cabinet crisis, were per-
mitted by the Minister of Justice to be published on the
day following the departure from Japan of Prince Konoye.
The Ugaki boom, which was in full strength two weeks
ago, has died down considerably, largely due to the deter-
mined opposition of certain groups in the Army and Navy,
which would probably make it impossible for General Ugaki
to form a Cabinet should he receive the Imperial command
to do so. Moreover, he has no particular qualifications
which would make it appear that he would be a stronger
or more able Premier than Saito. Hr recently came to
Tokyo from Seoul and interviewed various statesmen, os-
tensibly on matters relating to Chosen, cand left Tokyo
to return to his post on June 12, apparently without having
settled the matter of the Premiership. In addition to
General Ugaki, three other candidates have appeared for
the position of Premier: Count Kiyoura, former Premier;
Kisabaro
S..d
Dr. Suzuki, President of the Seiyukai; and General Araki,
former Minister for War. The FUKUOKA NICHI-NICHI, a
somewhat astute provincial newspeper, sums up the qualiri-
cations of the four candidates as follows:
2

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
"A certain man who is regarded as a strong
candidate for the post (General Ugaki) is
too ambitious and has political inolina-
tions. The public cannot have more eonfi-
dence in him than in Viscount Saito. An-
other candidate (Dr. Suzuki) is considered
treacherous. His policies would be damaging
to public interests, and the people are dis-
gusted with him.7 A third (Count Kiyoura) is
too old, and there is skepticism of his ability
to rally able men around him. A fourth (General
Araki) is the worst possible. We never dreamed
that the Japanese nation could harbor thoughts of
recommending such a man for the office of Premier.
He is childish in his love of display and is full
of vain-glory. No one will be so foolish as to
entrust this glorious country to this sort of
man, who once seemed to take pride in his non-
sensical "principles" and "philosophy".
A movement has also appeared looking toward the
appointment of a coalition Cabinet, composed of seiyukai
and Minseito statesmen, under the leadership of Baron
Tatsuo Yamamoto, the present Minister of Home Affairs.
08
Baron Yamamoto, however, it is reported has definitely
declined to undertake the task of organizing such a
Cabinet.
Under the circumstances, the opinion is gaining
ground that Viscount Saito should continue in office,
even should Mr. Takahashi resign and refuse to reconsider
his resignation. In such event, it is believed that the
entire Cabinet will resign, but the resignation may be
refused by the Throne, or a new mandate may be given vis-
count Saito to form a Cabinet. In such case, it is ex-
pected that the present Minister for Foreign Affairs and
the present Minister for War will remain in the new Cabinet.
As the Department is aware, the great financial houses
of Japan have long been afriliated with the political
parties - so much so that a party Cabinet would often be
called a "Mitsui Cabinet* or a "Mitsubishi Cabinet".
simee

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Since the political parties have lost power, however,
there has been little talk of the conneetion of the
financial houses with politics. Rumors of such con-
nections are again appearing. The Mitsui organization,
it seems, has affiliated itself with the reactionary
element under Baron Hiranuma and with the radical Army
element under General Araki. The Mitsubishi organiza-
tion, always conservative*, has on the other hand allied
itself with the more conservative groups, as has the
Sumitomo organization of Osaka. These two great finan-
cial organizations desire the maintenance of the present
government, or if this is impossible, the formation of
an Ugaki government. The two opposing camps have carried
with them the newspapers which they control or wi' which
they are friendly. Thus the OSAKA MAINICHI and TOKYO
NICHI-NICHI, the CHUGAI SHOGYO and the JIJI SHIMPO, alI
of which are connected with the Mitsui interests, are
opposed to General Ugaki and are inclined to favor the
radical Army element, while the Tokyo and Osaka ASAHI,
which is friendly to the Mitsubishi and Sumitomo organ-
izations, is supporting Ugaki for Premier.
According to some political observers, the present
line-up of influences in Japan, in regard to the struggle
between liberal and reactionary forces, is approximately
as follows:
竹
Influences Favoring Parliamentariam
and Liberalism.
Prince Saionji
Count Makino
Admiral Suzuki
ur. Yuasa
*The term "conservative* in Japan is used almost inter-
changeably with "liberal*, both designating those persons
who are opposed to the reactionary, radieal military or
ultra-nationalistie groups. These terms used in conneetiem
with Japanese affairs should not be confused with the same
terms as used in England.

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.97)
Kuvaheiu
yr. Yuasa (Minister of the Imperial Household)
Admiral Takarabe, Talksu
NMr. Inabata (President of the Osaka Ohamber
of Commerce and Industry)
Mr. Fusajiro Abe (President of the Japan cotton
Spinners Association)
Mitsubishi Organization.
Sumitomo Organization.
Minseito
Part of the Seiyukai
Part of the Army
ASAHI SHIMBUN (both Tokyo and Osaka)
Influences Favoring "Fascism"
and Militarism.
General Araki
D
Baron Hiranuma
Mitsui Organization
Part of Satsuma Clan
Most of the Army
Part of the Navy
Reactionary Societies
Part of Seiyukai
Kokumin Domei
OSAKA MAINICHI and. TOKYO NICHI-NICHI
CHUGAI SHOGYO
JIJI SHIMPO.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew
800
ERD:1
Copy to Legation Peiping and Berne.

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Divigon of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL·5193
JS
GRAY
1—1896
FROM
TOKYO
Dated July
4,
1934
Rec'd 2:48 a m.
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
144, Ju1y 4, 1 p.m.
894.00
Admiral Okada, former Minister of the Navy, has
mote
been charged by the Emporer with the formation of a
874.002
new cabinet. Names of members not yet announced.
GREW
JS
JUL 7-1934
FILED

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 5, 1934.
Mr. Philrips:n
EORFTA
Mr. Saapetary:
1931
ARTMENT OF SIALE
Herewith a memorandum
th affoiutment
by Mr. Dooman onAdmiral
6
Okada, who heads the new
Japanese Cabinet.
STATE
934
nab
ED
SKH:EJL

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION
00
1934
JUL 9
July 5, 1934partmemt er sute
89 4note
2
NOTED
SELECTION OF ADMIRAL KEISUKE OKADA TO FORM A NEW JAPANESE
894.
CABINET (Tokyo's Telegram No. 144, July 4, 1 p.m.)
STATE
527
14
OF
It s believed that the reason given for the collapse
y
C
EPEN
N
of the ai Cabinet -- the indictment of officials for
894.00/527
RE
nobe taken too literally. It may be recalled that a few
9
days ago the Minister of Finance issued a statement to
the press in which the opinion was expressed that inter-
national affairs would become less critical, and it indicated
intention to reduce the draft naval and military estimates
for the coming fiscal year by substantial amounts. It
would be safe to assume that, as the Army and Navy would not
have permitted such a statement to pass unchallenged,
the resignation of the Saito Cabinet was due more to
difficulties, actual or anticipated, over the budget for
the next year, rather than to the speculations of a few
subordinate officials. From the list of Japanese Cabinets
hereto attached, it will be noted that the majority of
Cabinets have fallen in the months of June and July. This
F/G
is due to the fact that the draft budgets, which are presest-
C
ed at the beginning of each preceding fiscal year, are referre
to the Cabinet by the Department of Finance during the month
of June.

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of June. If the Cabinet concludes that it is unable to
present to Parliament a draft budget incorporating within
the limits of visible revenue the demands of the various
departments, the Cabinet resigns. There is, therefore,
substantial evidence to support the belief that renewed
conflict with the Army and Navy over fiscal allotments
brought about the resignation of the Saito Cabinet.
The selection of Admiral Okada is distinctly a
surprise. The candidates for succession to Admiral Vis-
count Saito, as reported by the Embassy and by press
correspondents, were:
General Ugaki, Governor-General of Korea;
Baron Hiranuma, vice-president, Privy Council; and
Count Kiyoura, a former premier.
The Embassy reported some days ago that the candidacy
15+9
of General Ugaki, who is the leader of the Liberal Wing
of the Army, had collapsed, due to the opposition of the
militarists. Baron Hiranuma, who has strong "fascist"
tendencies, was, according to the Embassy, put out of the
running by the elder statesman, Prince Saionji, who caused
/516
Baron Hiranuma to lose face by appointing a Liberal to
the presidency of the Privy Council, a post which Baron
Hiranuma would normally have obtained by virtue of having
occupied the office of vice-president. Count Kiyoura, who
is eighty-four years old, is highly unpopular with the
political

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.98)
4
- 3 -
political parties for the reason that he is by nature and
by training a bureaucrat. His chanoes to succeed to the
premiership were never considered very good.
Various conjectures may be made with regard to the
reasons for the appointment of Admiral Ckada. The most
important issue now before Japan is conceived to be that of
naval limitation. An ordinance issued last year took out
of the hands of the Government the power to determine
Japan's naval strergth and left that power with the Chief
of the Naval Staff, an officer who would correspond to the
Chief of Naval Operations in the American Navy. So far as
naval questions are concerned, the Japanese Government, in
dealing with other interested foreign governments, would
merely be a channel of communication between the Chief of
the Naval Staff and foreign governments; and it may be
assumed that Prince Saionji and his advisors felt that it
would be preferable to have as Frime Minister one who was
once an officer in the Japanese Navy and has close
associations with those who control the Navy.
Although Fleischer's telegram to the NEW YORK HERALD
TRIBUNE described Admiral Okada asa "large Navy" man,
Admiral Okada has always had rather moderate views. His
outlook on international relattons is indicated by the
following incident:
In 1924
Nor.2,1932.

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
In 1924, the Japanese people were greatly agitated
by reports that the maneuvers of the American Navy which
were about to take place in the Pacific Ocean were designed
to explore the possibility of conducting joint maneuvers
with the Australian naval forces in event of a war between
the United States and Japan. Admiral Okada, who was then
Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese Battle Fleet, issued the
following statement to an American correspondent:
"I am going to take upon myself all responsi-
bility for stating that the imperial navy is feeling
not the least concerned about the Pacific maneuvers
of the American Navy. I am as a soldier little
interested in international politics but I am fully
convinced that the coming Facific maneuvers of the
American Navy is nothing more nor less than a
maneuver; a maneuver of the kind undertaken by the
navy of every other nation though it may be a
little larger in scale and longer in duration. A
maneuver exercised three thousand miles off the
shores of Japan signifies not very much indeed in
our eyes. If I were a statesman I would feel far
more deeply concerned about the attitude of the
press which is ever intent upon making capital of a
business of this kind and eventually creating an air
inconsistent with international friendship and
good understanding."
40
FE:EYD:DLY

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.97)
2
LIST OF RECENT CABINETS
Cabinet
Resigned
Terauchi
July 29, 1918
Hara-Takahashi
June 12, 1922
Kato (Admiral)
August 29, 1922*
Yamamoto
January 1, 1924**
Kiyoura
June 2, 1924
Kato-Wakatsuki
April 20, 1927
Tanaka
July 2, 1929
Wakatsuki
December 10, 1931
Inukai-Takahashi
May 26, 1932
* Deceased. .
** Resignation caused by attempt of a Korean to
assassinate the Emperor.

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
American Fleet
Protests U. S. Fleet Move
Irritates Japan,
Says Navy Head
Admiral Okada Deplores
'Unnecessary' Stationing
of Warships in Pacific
Wants Treaty Revision
Not Satisfied With Ratio
Given at London Parley
By Wilfrid Fleisher
By Cable to the Herald Tribune
Copyright, 1932. New York Tribune Inc.
TOKI, Nov. 2.—"The presence of the
American fleet in the Pacific unneces-
scrily irritates the minds of the Japa-
nese public." Admiral Keisuke Okada.
Minister of the Navy, said today in an
Herald Tribune photo-Acme
exclusive interview with this corre-
Admiral Keisuke Okada
spondent.
The admiral deplored publicity or
propaganda tending to aggravate feel-
ing among the people of Japan or
America.
"There is no reason for Japan and
the United States to go to war." he
said. "War between the two coun-
tries is unthinkable unless it is under-
taken for the sake of war alone. It
would be harmful to both countries
and neither would derive any benefit.
The war talk is an outragè to inter-
tional common sense. and there is no
substantial basis for it."
Admiral Okada said that the London
Naval Treaty of 1930 leaves very much
to be desired from the Japanese stand-
point. and that Japan agreed to the
pact "only because it would cease to be
effective after 1936."
He said President Hoover's proposal
for approximately one-third naval dis-
armament was still open to informal
discussions between rtpresentatives of
the powers, but was not entirely fair
to Japan. He favors the French thesis
of computing naval strength on the
basis of existing strength instead of
reckoning acoording to the theoretical
limits under the treaties.
Admiral Answers All Questions
The Navy Minister received the cor-
respondent in his official residen': and
and to the point in his characteristic
freely answered all questions, briefl
51
manner. The questions asked and
Admiral Okada's replies follow:
"Is Japan dissatisfied with the Lon-
don naval treaty?"
"The London treaty leaves very
much to be desired from Japan's
standpoint. We agreed to the treaty
only because it would cease to be
effective after 1936.
clearly made to this effect when the
Mention was
treaty was signed."
"Does Japan desire a ligher ratio
from the next conference?"
"Japan is not satisfied with the ratio
previoualy accorded her in some cate?
gories, but if total tonziage is further
6114,780,000 at current echange
to make up the London treaty

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.98)
limits under he treati
Admiral \nawern All Questionn
The Navy Minister received the oor-
respondent in his ocial residen and
freely answered all questions, briefl/
and to the point in his characteristic
manner. The questions asked and
Admiral Okada's replies follow:
"Is Japan dissatisfled with the Lon-
don naval treaty?"
much to be desired from Japata's
clearly made to this affect when the
treaty was signed."
"Does Japan desire a igher ratio
from the next conference?
"Japan is not satisfied with the ratio
previously accorded ner in some cate-
gories, but if total tonuage is further
reduced, even if the ratio is unchanged.
the result will be still more unfavor-
able to Japan. which possesses inferior
naval strength."
"The newspapers report that the
navy has decided on a supplementary
budget approprlation of 540,000,000 yen
[*114,750,000 at current exchange—
Ed.| for a four-year building program.
Is this to make up the London treaty
defciency?"
"No decision has yet been reached
concerning the budget. The navy may
demand a supplementary building pro-
gram, and may also reduce he num-
ber of years allotted for fulfllment of
the six-year program approved by the
Diet following ratification of . e Lon-
don treaty in order to relleve unem-
ployment. The elasticit. of the former
building program is limited and it
cannot be compressed into too short
a time. so a supplementary program
may be necessary. Shipbuilding is the
industry hardest hit by the depression
In Japan."
May Present Own Arms Plan
"Will Japan present her own dis-
armament plan at Geneva?"
"Instructions have been sent to the
Japanese delegates authorizing them
to use their own discretion. very
largely. whether to make a new pro-
posal on basic lines which was drawn
up at Tokio and taken by the dele-
gates. They are to use their judgment
whether to submit the plan or not, and
if so. when."
"Does Japan definitely reject the
Hoover disarmament plan for one-
third reduction of naval armaments?"
"It is not possible to answer the
question definitely.
The matter
should be left open to informal dis-
cussions between representatives of the
powers. The first impression. how-
ever. appears not entirely fair to
Japan.
"Do you think there is any prospect
of a compromise between the United
States and Great Britain regarding the
Hoover and Baldwin plans which would
in turn be acceptable to Japan?"
"I am doubtful regarding the possi-
bility of a compromise, but Japan
might conceivably accept some parts
of it. The plan is very extensive, but
some points or items might be accept-
able to Japan."
Favors French Thesis
"France las indicated that she
might accept the Hoover plan. based
on present naval strength instead of
the theoretical strength envisaged in
the treaties. Would Japan accept with
the same condition?"
"The idea of reckoning on the basis
of existing naval strength is a very
good one for the naval powers not in-
cluded in the London treatey. It is
the only practical way in which nego-
tations can
be undertaken. This
method of figuring, of course, is more
favorable to Japan, and consequently
more acceptable.
"Do you hold out any hope for fur-
ther reduction of naval armaments in
the near future?"
"This depends largely on the future
development of the implements of war.
If there continues to be great develop-
ment of armamente and inereasing
will be competled to make afforte to
sut armaments."
"Is it true that the naval establish-
mmente are working overtinke manu
has been doubled in the last year?
sonsumed at Shangaal, ane Japan is
aleo increasing her air Seree. Japes

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MED
GRAY
TOKIO
FROM
Dated July 5, 1934
Rectd 8:25 a.m.
Secretary of State,
FAR EA ERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
1934
894.n
146, Ju1y 5, 7 p.m.
Deaartment of State
One. It is definitely announced by Rengo that Hirota,
894.00/528
894.157
General Hayashi and Admiral Osumi will retain their present
posts in the new Cabinct and that the present Vice Minister
of Finance, Fuljii, will be Minister of Finance.
Two. The Department will find significant Fleisher's
despatch to the Now York HERALD TRI BUNE of November 2,
1932, reporting an interview with Admiral Okada who was
thon Navy Minister.
GREW
CSB
JUL 6-1934
FL册
r/C

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.97)
PT
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
FROM TOKYO
fore being communicated
to anyone (C)
19547
Rec'd. 8.03 a.m
894.00
Division of
no
894.00/529
Secretary of State,
594.012
Washington
Department of State
CLASSIFICATION CANCELLED A: 
of 5-20-64 from Donald 1. Simon, State Dept
conPrnrrtAL. A Japanese friend in high position
has given me the following ostimate of new Cabinet.
One. The choice of Ministers represents an
outstanding victory for thc liberal and moderate forces
in Japan as opposed to the Ghauvinists and Nationalist
fanatics. The opponents of military aggressiveness
have completely gained the upper hand and have demonstra-
ted their strength "like a clap of thunder". The country
is tired of a warlike phychology.
Two. The new Cabinet will follow the general
policy of the Saito administration but with a new
JUL 1 3 1934
driving force and initiative which Saito lacked
Three. If the United States had been able to
choose the new Cabinet with American-Japanese relations
in vicw it could not have done better.
Four. Admiral Osumi will not remain long as
Navy Minister and will probably be succeded by either
Admiral

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.99)
PT
- 2 - No. 147 from Tokyo, July 6, 2 pom.
Admiral Nomura or Admiral Kobayashi, not (repeat not)
Admiral Suctsugu.
My informant is in close touch with the purpose
of leaders, and ashe predicted Admiral Okada's appointment
to me several days before the latters name had beon evon
mentioned by the press, the diplomat or the public,
his opinion is worthy of consideration.
I am not yet prepared to subscribe to the foregoing
views in their entirety, but I do believe that the choiee
of men for the key positions in the new Cabinet indicates
a general trend away from aggrccsive nationalism and
consequently may be considered as a victory for the
moderates. This is the gencral opinion in Tokyo.
Ropated to Peiping by mail.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.96)
EPARTMENT OE STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERNLAFFAIRS
1934 NUL.11 PV 12 27
JUL 10 1934
DIVISTON OF
NOTED
"a Japanese friend in high position" and
Mr. Grew's comment, it is interesting
also to note the statement made by
Mr. Wilfrid Fleisher, correspondent of
the NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE, from Tokyo,
under date July 6, in conclusion of which
Mr. Fleisher says:
"As far as future naval policy
is concerned, there is no doubt that
the Okada-Osumi team stands for a
firmer policy than the Saito-Osumi
combination in the last cabinet.
Admiral Okada is not a real 'big
navy' advocate of the type of
Admiral Kanji Kato or Admiral
Nobumasa Suetsugu, commander in
chief of the fleet, but he will
certainly be for a stiffer polioy
than former Premier Makoto Saito,
who was moderate and favored rati-
fication of the London treaty."
JuL. 1 0 1934
FILED
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Snat
JUL 10 1934
Department of State
FE:SKH:EJL

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 6, 1934
S:H
Tokyo's telegram No. 147 of July 6,
2 p.m.:
Admiral Nomura was at one time the
Japanese Naval Attaché in Washington and
also a menber of the Japanese delegation
to the Washington Conference. After his
return from Washington he served in the
American section of the Naval General Staff,
and was then promoted to the rank of Rear
Admiral and put in cormand of the Yangtse
River Fleet. He then served in various
posts in the Navy Department and in the
Naval General Staff. The following reference
to Admiral Norura is contained in the
Embassy's despatch No. 173 of June 11, 1930,
reporting on the removal from important
positions in the Japanese Navy of officers
who had opposed the London Treaty:
"It is not likely that Admiral
Taniguchi will be in office in 1935,
but the chances are extremely favor-
able that he will be succeeded by
Admiral Nomura, who is not only a
genuine admirer of the United States
but is probably the most statesman-
like officer in the Japanese Navy."
All the

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Of all the liberal officers who were
advanced to important positions as a result
of the "liberal" victory in 1930, Admiral
Nomura alone was not put out of the way
when the reactionaries gained control of
the Navy in 1931.
Admiral Kobayashi was Acting Minister
of the Navy during the London Conference
while his chief, Admiral Takarabe, was
absent as a delegate at London. It was
Admiral Kobayashi's duty to fight Takarabe's
battles at home with the reactionary Chief
of the Naval Staff, Admiral Kanji Kato.
Admiral Xobayashi was, in 1931 or 1932,
demoted to the command of an unimportant
naval port on the Japan Sea.
FEEEND:DLY

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.97)
NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE
JUL 71934
Majority Party
Boycott Faces
Admiral Okada has threatened
Japan's Cabinet
co-operate. he will form
mean a complste
the Baits Oab
mier is naturally
Agriculture Post; Okada
an open split withtd
to Confer With Chiefs
By Wilfrid Fleisher
port of the partiés,
By Wireless to the Herald Tribune
Seiyukai.
Copyright, 1934, New York Tribune Inc.
Dissolution of Dlet
TOKIO. July 6.—Admiral Keisuke
If the adminai is compelled
Okada Japan's new Premier, is en-
countering considerable dimculty in
completing his Cabinet beçause of 
threatened boycott of the newly form-
ing government by the Seiyukai party.
the party elected sill refused
which feels slighted becausesonly two
port the government. it
minor posts have been offered to mem-
be necessary to dissolve
bers of the party.
again. This would make
Keisuke Mochizuki, a prominent
leader of the Seiyukal, which is the
while the method has been frequently
majority party in the Chamber of Dep-
adopted by a non-party go
puties, has declined the post of Min-
in the past, it is no long
ister of Agriculture. while Takejiso
cable.
So far. six-portfolios
Tokonami, former Minister of Railways
and another key member of the party,
non-party men. as follow
of the Premier have bee
has shown his reluctance to accept the
Hirota. Poreign Minister:
post of Minister of Communications.
Fujii, Fihance Minister: Gen
Both men indicated that they felt the
party was not being given suffciently
Juro Hayashi, War Minister:
important representation.
Osumi. Tavy Minister: Naoshi Du
Minister of Justice and Fumio Gotb
Okada Confers With Lealers
Home Mimister. It was reporthd tà.
Admiral Okada called in Jotaro Ya-
night that the post of Minister ót
mamoto, sentor member of the Seiyu-
kai, tonight to medlate between him-
firo Mitsdura. president of Kyushu
self and Kisaburo Suzuki, president of
Imperin University.
the party. Mr. Yamamoto expressed the
The appointment of Mr. Pujfi,
opinion that the only way the Selyu-
Minister of Pinance in the suto 
kai could be satisfled was to give a
third seat in the Cabinet.
continuation, of the policies of
K
The Seiyukai had three seats in the
preceding Saito Cabinet. including the
important post of Finance Minister,
which was held by Korekiyo Taka-
hashi, former president of the party:
the Minselto party had equal repre-
sentation. including the important
offce of Home Minister, held by Baron
Tatsuo Yamamoto. The post of:Home
Minister is regarded as politically most
catc of the type of Admiral Kanji
Important because it has jurisdiction
Kato or Admiral Nobumasa Sustsugi
over perfectural offcials. and police.
commander in chief of the fleet. but
thereby controlling the election ma-
he will certainly be for a stiffer policy
chinery in case of a general election.
than former Premier Makoto Balts.
The attitude of the Minbelto to-
who was moderate and favóred rati-
ward the new: Cabinet has been one
fication of the London treaty.
of watchful opportunistic waiting so
far. The Minseito. knowe-that since
all the important posts have been al-
ready lled by non-party men. it will
not fare any better than the Selyu-
kai, but it hnd not yet, expreased any
outright obpbaition to the Oabinet.
Lee 894.00
Premier Okade bad,an appointment
president of the Minselto and former
529
Premier. this afterndon, but post-
ope of ironing out his differences with
Selyukal in the mean time.

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WP
GRAY
Tokyo
FROM
Dated July 9, 1934
Rec'd 1:23 a. m.
Jile
Secretary of State,
Washington
894.00/530
UL 9 1934
894.00
153, July 9, 11 a. m.
Demartment of State
note
Admiral Okada has succeoded in completing his
894.002
Cabinet, which was received by the Emperor and formally
installed yesterday. Key posts filled as described in
525
my 146, July 5, 7 p. m Ful1 report by mail.
GREW
WP
JUL 10 1934
FELID
F/G

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Peiping, June 28, 1956!
No. 2796
Subject:
The attitude of Japanese officials 
Manchuria toward war, Mongols, and
migration of Japanese.
Cupy in FE
894.00
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NUL 23 1934
GREO
Departant or State
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
894.00/531
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
For Di-t- bution-Check
Yes
To fi11
X
In U S A.
OF STATE
ONI-MZ
1934
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a memoran-
AUG 6 - 1934
dum of statements made to-day to officers of the Le-
1
gation by Mr. A. T. Stele, recently correspondent at
Peiping of the NEW YORK TIMES and now correspondent
at Shanghai of the Associated Press, as a result of
F/ESP
a recent trip through Manchuria. Mr. Steele stated
that, in his opinion, the Japanese do not desire fur-
ther military aggression at Least until certain strate-
gio construction is finished, desoribed reforms which
are being instituted among the Mongols of "Manohukuo",

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
and reported that the two groups of armed immigrants
sent from Japan to "Manchukuo" have had so little sue-
cess that the Japanese consul general at Harbin was
recommending that the despatch of a third group be
delayed.
Respectfully yours,
Teloon Imeluthrow
Nelson Trusler Jobhson.
Enclosure:
1. Copy of memorandum of
conversation, June 26, 1934,
Mr. Steele, Mr. Gauss, and
Mr. Salisbury.
800-710
LES-SC
Copy to Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo.

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.91)
ANDUM OV CONVERSATION
Peiping, June 26, 1986.
Subjeet:
The attitude of Jemanese arrigialy 
migration of manase.
Present: Mr. A. T. Steele, resently correspondent
at Peiping of the NEw YOR TIkEs and now
correspondent at Shanghai of the Associated
Pross.
Mr. Gaums and Mr. Salisbury.
Having returned on June 24 fro a brief tour of Mom-
ohuria, M. Steele callod at the Legat ion and gave the in-
Torwat ion whioh follows:
Mr. teele met peny Tapenese orriorals during nte trin
and all, including Vice Chief of -tarr, Major-Genoral Oka-
mura, were unanimous in claiming that there would be no
military advanee by the Japanese into North China, at least
fer the time being. They were all emphatie in stating that
the present need is for better relations with Chima. Mr.
Steale was impressed by the tremendeus tasks eomfremting
the regime in Mamahuria and maid that abvieusly it eoule
met desire war until after the completion ef commtruetion
of a strategie nature now in progress. me atast thas he
had talked in Haiaking ealy with Japenese, thet practiagaly
y

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.93)
cols of "Mame hukuo" prinsipally reside). Liestement-
Semeral Toda, whom Mr. Steele regards as the offieial
in aetual ocontrol of direction of affairs relating to
Mongols, stated that "Hanehukuo" has no inteation at pre-
sent of abserbing Inner Mongolia and would purswe only
non-political activities, vueh as trade. Lieutemant-
General Yoda also said that sorious efforts to alter the
situation of Mongols within "lanohukuo" were being made;
for example, sohools were being rap1dly built in Mongol
areas in ordeor that e syst em of four yoars of compulsory
eduoation for Mongols might be inetituted; attempts would
be mado to remove gradually superstition from the religion
or ongols mais Buddhiam (perhaps with the intent
of m nrt mor eimilar o apanese forms of Buddhisa)
a regulation has been made to the effect that it is no
longer necessary for one son of eaeh fmily to become a
priest and that anyone desiring to become one must first
receive the approval of the leader (Mongel) of the dis-
triet; nd titles have nemimally been eliminated al-
though they are still empleyed setually. Lioutemast-
General Tode iaformed Mr. Steele that, altheugh older
Hangels are dissatisried wià cush changes, the younger
Memgols "are behind" the Japemese referms. Mr. Steels,
sho has beem reeently in Iamer komgelta, expreamge the
g at ush refo de mt plese the 

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
exdste aleng the boréer where me Mongalisns mmy live
md which, if entered, may result in the intruder being
sent to Urga.
Mr. Morishima, Japanese consul ganaral at Harbin,
informed Mr. Steele that of the first group of 5oe armed
immigrante sent from Japan to "Manonukuo" to colonise the
valley of the lower Sungari R1ver about 300 are still pre-
sent and are g ttin alon: passably well but that the se-
cond group, of whicn 350 remain, are living on Gowernment
funds because the buildings which they ereoted during the
past winter were destroyed by irate local farmers and be-
antin c d t arried out on eccount
ause 
or ehi  also said that
of attendant dangers.
about to racammend that the hird group, which is soheduled
to leave Japan this your, be delayed in view of the un-
satisfactory condition of the first two groups.
LEB-SC

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
500.A 15 a 5/154
FOR
883
894.00
FROM.
Japan
Grew
)DATED
July 5, 1934.
TO
NAME
1-1127
/532
2
REGARDING:
New cabinet. While no members of the new cabinet have yet been
definitely announced, the name of Admiral Suetzugu is frequently mentioned.
G

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 9, 1934.
SKH:
Tokyo's despatch No. 896,July
18, 1934, reports on the recent
change of government. It is
very interesting and readable.
I think that we might have been
told something of the reasons for
the resignation of the Saito
Cabinet, but it otherwise requires
no comment.
The portion of the despatch
which should be read with special
attention is that dealing with the
reasons for the appointment of
Okada (Beginning with the second
paragraph of page 4).

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, July 18, 1934.
No. 896.
Subject:
The Okada Cabinet.
Division of
Kno
THE UNDER SECRETARY
AG11 1934
Department of State
DEPARIMENT OE STATE
894.00/533
Kecorded
For Distribution-Cher
AI
3
Guade 
Fer
Tole
1A
ONH
File
E63人
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
The Honorable
CTA
AUG 2 5 1934
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 22 1934 pM
Sir:
STEREUROPEAAFAR12
July 5, 7 p.m., No. 147,
and No. 153, 532
B
July 9, 11 a.m., concerning the composition, policy and
installation of the Cabinet of Admiral Keisuke Okada,
which assumed office on July 8, 1934. The composition
f the Cabinet at the time of installation was as follows:
Premier: Admiral Keisuke Okada, on the retired
list of the Japanese Navy and Navy
Minister in two preceding.Cabinets.
Minister for Foreign Affairs: Mr. Koki Hirota,
a career diplomatic officer and Foreign
Minister in the-preceding Cabinet.
Finanae

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.99)
Finance Minister: Mr. Sadanobu Fujii, a career
official of the Finance Ministry
and for a short period Vice Minis-
ter of Finance in the preceding
Cabinet.
War Minister:
General Senjuro Hayashi, on the
active list of the Japanese Army
and War Minister in the preceding
Cabinet.
Navy Minister:
Admiral Mineo Osumi, on the active
list of the Japanese Navy and
Navy Minister in the preceding
Cabinet.
Minister for Home Affairs: Mr. Fumio Goto, a non-
party statesman and Minister for
Agriculture in the preceding
Cabinet.
Justice Minister:
Mr. Naoshi Obara, a career offi-
cial of the Justice Ministry and
former Chief Judge of the Tokyo
Court of Appeals.
(p.10
Education Minister: Mr. Gengi Matsuda, a prominent
member of the Minseito and once
Minister for Overseas Affairs.
Minister for Commerce and Industry: Mr. Chuji Machi-
da, a prominent member of the Min-
seito and Minister for Agriculture
in two preceding Cabinets.
Minister for Communications: Mr. Takejiro Tokonami,
formerly a prominent member of
the Seiyukai (now expelled) and
Minister for Home Affairs in two
preceding Cabinets.
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry: Mr. Tatsuno-
suke Yamasaki, formerly of the
Seiyukai (now expelled).
Minister for Railways: Mr. Shinya Uchida, formerly
of the Seiyukai (now expelled).
Minister for Overseas Affairs: Held concurrently
with position of Premier by Ad-
miral Okada.
Confidential Biographic Data Reports on the new members
of the Cabinet are enclosed herewith.
Composition of the Cabinet.
The Cabinet, as finally installed, conqists of three
active

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
active or retired military men (Admiral Okada, General
Hayashi and Admiral Osumi), three "bureaucrats" (Mr. Hirota,
Mr. Fujii, and Mr. Obara), one non-party politician (Mr. Goto),
three former Seiyukai men (Mr. Tokonami, Mr. Yamasaki and
Mr. Uchida) and two Minseito men (Mr. Matsuda and Mr. Machida).
The Okada Cabinet, therefore, like the preceding Saito Cabinet,
can be considered to be a "national" Cabinet, except for one
peculiar circumstance, namely, that no peer is included in its
composition. As far as can be ascertained by a brief investi-
gation, practically all previous Cabinets have included at
least one member of the peerage. It is possible that the
Overseas Ministry has not been filled for the present with
the expectation of appointing a peer to this post when a suit-
able candidate is found. There has been some newspaper dis-
cussion of the possibility of appointing Prince Konoye (who
has cut short his visit to the United States and is hurrying
home) to the position of Minister for Overseas Affairs, but
both the Prince and the Princess, who is in Japan, have ri-
diculed the idea.
The newspapers generally consider the new Cabinet to be
a safe one, with no radical right or left elements, with the
possible exception of Mr. Fumio Goto who is rumored to be
somewhat in sympathy with the reactionary groups. The TOkYO
ASAHI considers the Cabinet to be bureaucratic, while the
HOCHI considers it to be an extension of the Saito Cabinet,
especially in the realm of diplomacy.
1sk
Appointment of Admiral Okada as Premier.
When it became reasonably certain that the Saito Cabinet
would not be able to survive the scandal in the Finance Minis-
try, there was much speculation in Tokyo regarding the person
ho

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.99)
一 4 -
who would be commanded to form the next Cabinet. The names
of General Ugaki, Count Kiyoura, Baron Hiranuma, Dr. Suzuki
and Baron Yamamoto were mentioned, and at one time it seemed
certain that General Ugaki would be selected to head the
next Cabinet. When it became apparent, however, that influ-
ential elements in both the Army and the Navy were unalterably
opposed to the General, his boom burst. It was then widely
reported that Admiral Viscount Saito would again be commanded
to form a Cabinet, or that the resignation of his Cabinet
would be refused by'the Throne. At the same time, however,
there were vague rumors that Prince Saionji and the states-
men close to the Throne would recommend a "dark horse" as
the next Premier. A few days before his appointment, the
Embassy received an intimation that Admiral Okada was the
"dark horse", but in view of the many rumors which were flying
around the capital, the Embassy hesitated to give credence
to the report.
Various reasons have been advanced regarding the appoint-
ment of Admiral Okada. One (perhaps the most reasonable) is
that the naval disarmament question is the most important
question confronting the nation at the present time, and
therefore a naval man was indicated as the best choice for
Premier. Admiral Okada is not known as a "big navy" advocate,
but when the London Naval Disarmament Treaty was under con-
sideration in Japan, he acted as mediator between the anti-
treaty party, led by Admiral Kanji Kato, and the pro-treaty
party, led by Admiral Takarabe, Baron Wakatsuki and (then)
Premier Hamaguchi, and is therefore, fully informed regarding
both

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
both the diplomatic and technical sides of the question.
Later (November, 1932) in a newspaper interview, he declared
that the London Naval Treaty left much to be desired; that
Japan only consented to sign it because it would cease to
be effective after 1936; and that he favored naval limitation
on the basis of existing strength rather than on the grounds
of theoretical strength. He is therefore considered to be
thoroughly in favor of preserving and augmenting Japan's
naval strength, without being a "big navy" fanatic.
Admiral Okada is also said to be a compromise Premier.
When it became certain that the resignation of the Saito
Cabinet was inevitable, about the end of June, some sixty
senior officers of the Japanese Navy addressed a petition to
Admiral Prince Fushimi, the Navy Minister, Admiral Osumi, and
Admiral Kato, calling for the abrogation of the Washington
Naval Disarmament Treaty and the establishment of the princi-
ple of naval equality. The fear,aroused by this petition, of
fresh outbreaks of violence on the part of the younger offi-
cers in both the Navy and the Army is said to have influenced
Prince Saionji in the selection of a naval man for Premier, it
being thought that the military would feel that their interests
were in safer hands if a military man were head of the Govern-
ment, than if a civilian were Premier. While, therefore, the
liberal element was calling for the selection of a known
sound, safe statesman, such as General Ugaki or Admiral Vis-
count Saito, and the super-patriots were calling for the se-
lection of an ultra-nationalist, such as General Araki, Ad-
miral Kanji Kato, or Baron Hiranuma, a middle course was taken
and

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
and Admiral Okada was chosen.
Admiral Okada is also said to be something of a genius
at compromising between contending factions. As was mentioned
above, he undertook to mediate between the anti-treaty faction
and the pro-treaty faction at the time when the London Naval
Treaty was presented for ratification in Japan, and succeeeded
in adjusting the differences between the two parties to such
an extent that the treaty was ratified, although apparently
with some tacit understanding that the same ratio would not
be accepted by Japan again. Likewise, when Minister of the
Navy in the Saito Cabinet, he undertook to adjust the dif-
ferences between the Cabinet and the Seiyukai, which at that
time threatened to wreck the Government, as the Seiyukai.
held a clear majority in the Diet. He again succeeded in ad-
justing the differences temporarily, although he resigned as
Minister of the Navy shortly after, his resignation being
popularly attributed to the fact that he was unable to hold
the Saito Government to an agreement said to have been con-
cluded by him. At the present time, when there are distinctly
opposing camps in Japan, including the liberals, the ultra-
nationalists, and the professional politicians, it is felt
that a skilful mediator will be of the greatest value to the
nation. His appointment as Premier has therefore been accepted
for the time being by the most influential factions of the
hation, including the Army and the Navy.
Formation of the Cabinet.
The formation of the Cabinet was attended with considera-
ble difficulty, as, in order to be a really national Cabinet,
such

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
such as was apparently intended, all factions of the nation
should be represented in its final composition. Almost from
the first it was understood that former Minister for Foreign
Affairs Koki Hirota, former War Minister General Hayashi, and
former Navy Minister Admiral Osumi would retain their posts
in the new Cabinet, whileit was soon announced that Vice
Minister of Finance Fujii in the Saito Cabinet would become
Finance Minister in the new Cabinet. This was distinctly
a surprise to the political world, as it had been confidently
expected that if Mr. Takahashi, Finance Minister in the Saito
Cabinet, refused to enter the new Cabinet, Mr. Fukai, Vice-
Governor of the Bank of Japan, would be offered the post.
It is believed, however, that Mr. Fujii, although almost un-
known to the political and financial worlds,will be entirely
acceptable as Finance Minister, as he will carry on Mr. Taka-
hashi's policies.
After the appointment of the so-called "bureaucrats",
however, the formation of the Cabinet became more difficult.
Admiral Okada invited the Seiyukai and the Minseito to name
two candidates each for minor posts in the new Cabinet.
The Minseito accepted readily, as, being the minority
party in the Diet, it could not aspire to the formation of a
Cabinet itself and was glad to accept posts in a national
Cabinet. The Seiyukai, however, considered itself insulted
by the offer of two minor posts in the new Cabinet and re-
fused the olive branch. The faction of the Seiyukai led
by Mr. Tokonami, however, which has long been opposed to
the faction led by the President, Dr. Suzuki, accepted a
later

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
later offer of three posts in the new Cabinet and named Mr.
Tokonami, Mr. Yamasaki and Mr. Uchida for the posts. At the
same time these three men resigned from the Seiyukai, but
without accepting their resignations, the Seiyukai expelled
them from the party. The defection of the three prominent
members of the Seiyukai, with their followers, has caused
great commotion among the professional politicians and will
undoubtedly cause a new line-up of party politics, but in
the present temper of the Japanese nation, the activities
of the parties do not arouse much interest. While the pro-
fessional politicians, therefore, are displeased with the
new Cabinet, the liberal element in the nation hails it with
great enthusiasm, as indicating a victory for them. It was
a victory, in the sense that a "fascist", or ultra-national-
istic, Government was not placed in power.
Support for the New Cabinet.
The new Cabinet is not supported by the entire nation.
The Minseito (the minority party in the Lower House) has
agreed to work with the Cabinet. The Seiyukai is opposed
to the Cabinet, except for the faction following Mr. Tokonami,
which is computed at some thirty members. The Kokumin Domei
(Mr. Adachi's party) is opposed to the new Cabinet because it
is not a "fascist" government, but reserves its opposition
for the time being. The Kenkyukai, the majority party in
the House of Peers, will cooperate with the Cabinet if its
general policies agree with those of the Kenkyukai. The
Meirinkai (an association of ex-service officers) opposes
the Cabinet because it has affiliated itself with the "cor-
rupt" political parties, but the Meirinkai will reserve its
riew

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
views for the present. The Nippon Seisanto (the influential
reactionary society of Mitsuru Toyama) is opposed to the
Cabinet because Admiral Okada is supposed to have supported
the London Naval Treaty.
The Okada Cabinet therefore appears to have the support
of the liberal elements, but is opposed by the reactionary
elements and some of the professional politicians. It will
be able, in all probability, to command a majority in the
House of Peers, but there is some doubt regarding its sup-
port in the Lower House. The Seiyukai has in the past few
sessions commanded a clear majority in the Lower House, but
with the defection of Tokonami and his followers, it is
doubtful if the Seiyukai can continue to enjoy its predomi-
nant position. If the Tokonami faction allies itself with
the Minseito, it is possible that the new Cabinet will be
able to command a majority in the Lower House. If not, the
Diet may be dissolved and a general election held.
Policies of the Okada Cabinet.
No general policy of the Okada Cabinet has as yet been
announced, although it was intimated to the newspapermen
that such a statement would be issued after the Cabinet meet-
ing on July 13. The Embassy has received indirectly the
information that ex-Premier Saito stated in a private in-
terview that the Okada Cabinet would follow exactly the
policies of the Saito Cabinet - that there would be no
change at all in either domestic or foreign policies. More-
over, Admiral Saito stated that Finance Minister Fujii would
followexactly the financial policies of his predecessor, Mr.
Takahashi.
The individual Ministers, however, expressed themselves
okada
briefly as to their policies shortly after the Cabinet was
inducted

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
inducted into office. Thus, Mr? Hirota is reported to have
said (JAPAN ADVERTISER translations):
"I intend to follow the policy of international
co-operation, defined at the Five-Minister Con-
ference under the Saito Cabinet. As regards the
prevailing situation in Europe, I will listen to
explanations from Ambassador Naotake Sato, who will
return shortly from France. The Hull-Hirota mes-
sages reveal the present Japan-American situation
but they are not sufficient. So I will listen to
the opinion of Ambassador Hiroshi Saito of Wash-
ington, and I am prepared to take concrete steps
to promote better relations.
"Japan's relations with China are improving. Our
relations with the Soviet Union are not bad. The
Manchurian question is the most important matter
at present for Japan, and the Government and the
people must give their support.
"The world at present is uneasy economically and
politically. In order to surmount this,the Powers
must cooperate. The Disarmament Conference of next
year will be the best means of realizing the co-op-
eration of the Powers. As Japan is responsible
for the maintenance of peace in the Orient, it is
necessary for this country to maintain the arma-
ment necessary. The world's tendency toward arma-
ment increase is illustrative of the world's un-
certainty. Japan must give the world guidance in
establishing peace."
Mr. Fujii, Minister for Finance, is reported to have said:
"As you are aware, Japan is facing a crisis in-
ternally and externally. The nation must solve
important financial and economic problems. Ef-
forts of the Government alone will not be enough
to surmount the difficulties, and public support
is sincerely hoped for. I will not rapidly change
the financial policy, but will follow the Taka-
hashi plan. Close investigation will be made before
I carry out a policy. I do not think the present
unbalanced Government budget should be left as it
is.
"As regards taxes, I do not necessarily believe
the deficit has to be made good with tax increases
alone, since increased expenditures are a matter
of course in connection with the Manchurian affair
and replenishment of national defense, although a
tax increase will be necessary."
Arhe statements made by other Ministers at that time consisted
of platitudes. and are of no significance, except that Justice
Napshw
Minister"Obara stated that he "attached the greatest impor-
tance to the rectification of official discipline and puri-
fication

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
fication of elections", indicating that he will continue
his predecessor's policy of uncovering graft whenever and
wherever discovered.
On July 13 the Japanese newspapers stated that Admiral
Osumi, the Navy Minister, had submitted a program to Premier
Okada, calling for the renunciation by Japan of the principle
of naval ratios, for autonomy in national defense, for in-
sistence on Japan's claims to the mandated South Sea islands,
for completion of Japan's Manchurian policy, and for adjust-
ment of relations with the Soviet Union through the solution
of the Chinese-Eastern Railway problem and through the re-
newal of oil-production concessions in Russian Saghalien.
There has been considerable newspaper discussion of the
desirability of renewing the Five-Minister Conferences (the
five ministers consisting of the Premier and the Foreign,
Navy, Army, and Finance ministers), in order that the policies
of the Saito Cabinet may be explained and continued, with such
changes as the changed times would seem to warrant. It is
believed by the political writers for the vernacular news-
papers, however, that the Ministers appointed from the poli-
tical parties, none of whom hold posts entitling them to
participation in the Five-Minister Conferences, would object
seriously to the conferences.
Of Human Interest.
The Japanese newspapers usually endeavor to find items
of human interest in regard to persons in the public eye. In
the case of Admiral Okada, they have stressed his poverty and
his love of alcoholic beverages. It is stated that when he
accepted

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.97)
- 12 -
accepted the Imperial command to form a Cabinet, he possessed
only Yen 400 in ready cash, and as he was compelled to spend
money at the rate of Yen 200 a day while forming the Cabinet,
he had to borrow Yen loo0 from his relatives. Also that,
when he moved into the Premier's official residence from his
humble and austere private residence, he brought with him
only a taxicab-load of personal effects and no servants ex-
cept a maid who will come each day from his private home
to take care of his clothing. Moreover, the people of his
native province, Fukui, learning that the Admiral had only
a heavy winter frock coat in which to make his official calls
in the summer heat, are reported to have decided to donate
a summer-weight frock coat to the Admiral.
Respectfully yours,
Noseta.Ju
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Confidential Biographic
Data.
800.
ERD:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping
n
n
n
Berne

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.95)
Tarm la Dhplaa Pa
File name
OKADA
Nationality.Japanes
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Norz.-Consult Diplomatic Swrial ss0 of August 7, 1pee, and reforenoes therein. Forme are to be prepared n typewriter la triplleste, eme espy es ee
and two for Department.
Omoss spoding communicstions to the European Information Center should for ward extra copy of thls form to E. I. C.
Post....Embassy, Tokyo... Date of preparation..July. 17.,..1934 Prepared by.
Family name
OKADA
Keisuke
("urname)
(Given names)
Highest rank or title Senior Grade of 3rd Court Rank
Position....Premier
Date appointed July 8, 1934. Party affiliations ...None
Birthplace
Fukui-ken
Date of birth. January,1868
Residence Tokyo.
Education...Graduate Naval. Academy 1889; Naval Nar..Callega.
Reputation.Honest and reliable
Personality...Genial..and..shrewd
Influence Good with Navy und fair with nation. as.a. whole.
Previous career. Graduated Na val Academy 1889; Instructor. Naval College;
Commander of the Chitose, Yaeyama, Kasuge and Asahi; Instructor
Naval Torpedo Training. Station:..Instructor Naval.Coilege;..Cap-.....
tain of the Kasuga; and Kashima; Chief of the Bureau of Per-
sonnel Navy Department; Commandant of Sasebo. Naval Arsenal,
Chief of Board of Naval Construction; Vice Minister of Navy in
Cabinet;Commander -in-Chief.ofthe Combined-Fleet,-Commandant
of Yokosuka Naval Base; Minister of Navy during Tanaka Cabinet
and. Saito Cabinet.
Attitude toward the United States. Believed.friendly.
Service in the United States None,
Attitude toward other nations Fri endly toward foraign countries.
Personal intelligence:
Marriage
Widower
Children Two sons; two daughters
Religion...Unknom
Recreations.
Fond of liquor
Clubs
Lineage.
Samurai
L any, for any particular country, eto. In case of a journalist, give partieulars as to prems repressated, searees ef mtermettem, eal emmeessema,
aay, etc., and reputation for lntegrity, scouracy. asd fairmess. If mere spese ls meeded, a seeoed shest):
Knowm as fairly..libaral. in views, a. good executive.and
skilful in compromise.

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.96)
File name
FUJII
Nationality ...Japanese.
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Nor.Consult Diplomatic Seriel ss0 of August 7, 19ss, and references thersin. Forms are to be prepared  typewrtt  tripte,  y t
and two for Department.
Ooss ssnding communiostions to the European Information Center should for ward extra copy of thls forma to E. I. C.
Tokyo Embassy
July 17, 1934
Prepared by..
Post.
Date of preparation.
Family name
FUJII
Sadanobu
(Surname)
((Given names)
Highest rank or title
Position Minister of Finance in Okada Ministry.
Date appointed July 8, 1934... Party affiliations ...None.
Birthplace Tokushima Prefecture, Japan Dato of birth January.
1885
Residence Tokyo.
Education Graduate Law Department of the. Tokyo Imperial University 1909
Reputation.Good ractical y unki. owPersonality
Influence
Previous career Clerk in Monopoly Bureau: Assistant inspector of Tax
Superintendence Office; made official tour of Europe and America;
Secretary in Finance Department; Private Secretary to Minister of
Finance; Director of the Bureau f Administration for Buildings
and Repairs; Director of Finance Department, Revenue Bureau;
Director of the Bureau of Accounts; Vice-Minister of Finance.
Attitude toward the United States.Not knowm.
Service in the I'nited States None, except official. tour. of inspaction.
Attitude toward other nations Not knoum.
Personal intelligence:
Marriage Wife, Koto
Children Son, Tadayoshi, born 1917.
Religion
Recreations
Clubs
Lineage
REA (Inoluding any outstanding fature of reord in internationl maters, aoant uttera for or  h Ud   
Li any, lor any particuler oountry, etc. In case of a journaliet, give partioulars  to preme represated, so rese of tmsermecem, etel emmesems, 
any, etc, and reputation ter lategrity, mouracy, and lairmes. If more spere la aeeded, as seeoed sbeet):
Has had purely bureaucratic cafeer, but is known as able and
well informed man. Is known as protágé and right hand man of. former
Finance Minister Takahashi and is expected to follow the latter's
policies. and be. backed by. him.

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.96)
File name.... OHARA
Nationality Japanese.
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Not.Consult Diplemec Serial ss0 of Augut 7, 19s, and retereno therain. Forms are to be prepared on typewriter l tripl,  y 
and two for Department.
Omos sonding communicstions to the European Information Canter should for ward extra copy of thts form to E. I. C.
Post Embassy, Tokyo.
Date of preparation.Ju1y. 18,..1934. Prepared by....T
Family name
Ohara
Naoshi
(Surname)
((liven names)
Highest rank or title 2nd Order of Merit; LL.B..
Position Minister of Justice, Okada Cabinet.
Date appointed July 8, 1934. Party affiliations..None.
Birthplace Niigata Prefecture, Japan.
Date of birth January,1877.
Residence
Takyo.
Education. Graduate, 1902, Tokye Imperial-Universityy Seeti-on-of
English Law.
ReputationGood jurist
Personality...Pleasing.
Influence Good in official oireles.
Previous career After sehooling beeame judge and-procurator at
various local courts; councillor of the Department of Justice;
Judge of the Supreme Court; Chief Procurator of the Tokyo
Court of Appeal; Vice Minister of Justice during Tanaka Cabinet;
was Chief Judge of the Tokyo Court of Appeal when appointed
Minister of Justice.
Attitude toward the United States.
Unknom
Service in the United States None
Attitude toward other nations Unknom.
Personal intelligence:
Marriage Wife Toyo Ikomo.
Children Three sons and twe daughters.
Religion Unknam
Recreations Billiards, archery,o.
Clubs
Nippon Club, Tokyo.
Lineage.
Son of Keijiro Tanaka: adopted by Tomotada Ohara
REM A RIs (Including any outstanding feature of record in internationel matters. sgnißeant utteranos for or agalmet the Ualted stetes, ed predesete,
Lf any, lor any particular country, etc. In case of = journaliet, give partioulars a to prees reprmeented, sourees of tmsormatieu, aetel eemmeestesa, 
any, etc, snd reputation fer lntegrity, securacy, and faireees. If more spere la peeded, uee pecood sbest):
Knowm only as bureaucratic official but believed to be
thoroughly honest. and devoted to duties.

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.95)
Porm far Diploa, da,
File name..MATSUDA
Nationality ...Japanese.
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Not. —Consult Diplemetic Serial s0 of August 7, 19ss, and references therain. Forme are to be prepered on typewrtter I triplles, me y  
and two for Department.
Ofose mnding communicstions to the European Information Canter should for ward axtre copy of thls form to E. I. C.
Post Embassy, Tokyo
Date of preparation... July 18...1934 Prepared byT
Family name
Matsuda
Gen11
(Surname)
(Given names)
Highest rank or title
Junior Grade of 3rd Court Rank
nd Class Order of Sacred Treasure
Position...Minister of Education in Okada Cabinet
Date appointed July 8, 1934.. Party affiliations...Minseito
Birthplace Oita Prefecture, Japan
Date of birth...0ctaber,..1875.
Residence Tokyo.
Education Graduate Nippon Daigaku (private University)
Reputation
Personality
Influence
Previous career. After schooling passed examination.for Higher.Civil
Service; became lawyer; since 1908 elected 7 times member of
House of Representatives;.elected Vice President..of.House
of Representatives; Minister of Overseas Affairs during
Hamaguchi Cabinet.
Attitude toward the United States. Believed..friendly
Service in the l'nited States No service but. has. visited. the United States
Attitude toward other nations
Unimown
Personal intelligence:
Marriage
Widower.
Children
Six sons.
Religion
Unknom
Recreations
Clubs
Lineage.....Commoner.
REM A R Ks (Including any ousteading feature of rerd in international metters, ant uttera for or  h Ualted t, d ped
Lany, for any particuler country, ete. In m of a journaliet, gtve partlulers a to prem repressated, serese ef tdeematiee, eeal meeeme,
aay, etc., and reputatiom fer lategrity, securacy. and (airmess. If mere spece la seeded, mee seeeed sbest):
Is a politician af tha. battar..class.
Formerly in Seiyukai- left with Tokonami.

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.95)
Form for D
File name....MACHIDA
Nationality
Jap
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Not.—Consult Diplometic Serial ss0 of August 7, 19ss, and references therein. Forms are to be prepered on typewrter m
and two for Department.
Offoes sending communiostions to the European Information Center should for ward extra copy of this form to E. I. C.
PostEmbassy,Tokyo
Date of preparation..Ju1y..18,..1934 Prepared by...T.
Family name.
MACHIDA
Chuj1
(Surname)
(Given names)
Highest rank or title...Senior Third Grade..(First Order..of.Merit).
Position....Minister of Commerce. and.Industry
Date appointed....July..8,..1934.. Party affiliations ....Minseito
Birthplace..
Akita City,Akita PrefectureDate of birth.March,1863.
Residence.
(Official residence:.13.Kaminibancho,Kojimachi-ku,Tokyo.
Education
Studied at University Preparatory School.and then in-Europe
Reputation.....Good
Personality
Influence....Wide,.especially..among..Minseito--partisans.
Previous career.Started-hi-s--career--as--junior--eterk--in--the--Bank-of--Japan.
then transferred to Yamaguchi Bank; next took to journalism
being-on-the-steff-of-the-defunct-Choye-Shimbun-and-then-the
Hochi Shimbun; was Minister of Agriculture and Forestry in the
Wakatsuki-Ministry-from-June;1926ti11-Apri1-20,-1927;-same
post in the Hamaguchi Ministry from July 7, 1929 till April
14,-1931,-retaining the-same post-in the second Wakatsukt
Ministry from Apri1 14, 1931 til1 December 13, 1931; was re-
turned-to-the-Lower-House-from-Akita Prefecture-six times;
was for a time president of the Hochi Shimbun; visited Europe
and-America twice.
Attitude toward the United States ......Friendly
Service in the United States.....None
Attitude toward other nations.....Friendly
Personal intelligence:
Marriage.Married Ko,-sister-of-Koshin-Watanabe-(a-samarei
of Akita), born 1864.
Children...A son.(aged 44).and a..daughtor(aged-48)
Religion..Buddhism
Recreations.....Go!
Clubs.....Nippon.Club.
Lineage.....Samami...family.
aay, ote, snd reputation tor integrity, securaey, and fairmess. If moré sgaee ts meeded, use sesenddester

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.97)
Nationality
File name.YAMAZAKI
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Not.—Coslt Diplemetc Sriel ss0 of Augus 7, 19s, and refareno therein. Forme are to be prepered  ype
and two for Depertment.
Oftoses sending communicstions to the European Information Canter should for ward extra copy of this form to E. I. C.
July 18, 1934 Prepared by
Embassy, Tokyo
Post.
Date of preparation.
Yamazaki
Tatsunosuke
Family name.
(Surname)
(Given names)
Highest rank or title
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry in Okada
Position
Date appointed..July.8,1934.. Party affiliations Formerly Seiyukai._(now
pelled)
Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan.
Date of birth... June1880
Birthplace.
Residence.
Tokyo.
Education...Graduate Kyoto Imperial University, 19oo,Section of
German Law.
Reputation._Honest-.non-grafter
Personality
Influence.
Passed Higher Civil Service Examinations.after
Previous career.
schooling: Clerk and later councilor of Formosa Government General;
Bureau Director in Department of Education; elected 3 times
member of the House of Representatives; parliamentary vice-
minister of Education during Tanaka Cabinet
Attitude toward the United States.Unknowm:.not._important in..present_position.
Service in the United States....None
Unknown, but not reputed to be fanatical
Attitude toward other nations.
nationalist.
Personal intelligence:
Marriage....Married Mineko.Qta.
Children.....None.
Religion.....Unknown
Recreations.
Clubs.
Samurai; related by marriage..to Chuichi Ariyoshiy-fo
Lineage...
Mayor of Yokohama and Life Member of. Houseof Pae
REMARKs (inciuding any outstanding festure of reoord in international matters, igniheknt
if any, for any particular country, eto. In cas of  journalist, give particulars as to press represnted, sourbes of sormation
any, eto., and reputation fer integrity, securacy, and fairness. If more space is needed, use seeond sheet):
related to Akira Ariyoshi, Minister to China.

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.96)
TOKONAMI
Nationality ...J
(Best known name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
Not.—Consult Diplematic Seriel ss0 ef August 7, 19ss, and references therein. Forms are to be prepered om typewr
and two for Department.
Offoss sending communiations to the European Information Canter ahould for ward extra copy of this form to E. I. C.
Embassy, Toky0. Date of preparation July 18, 1934 Prepared by 
Post.
TOKONAMI
Takejiro
Family name.
(Surname)
(Given names)
Highest rank or title ....Senior..Grade..Zrd.Court Rank.
Position..Minister..of..Communications..in.Okada.Cabinet
Date appointed...July..8,..1934.... Party affiliations ...Seiyukai..(expelled).
Birthplace...-Kagoshima.Prefecture,Japan... Date of birth...December,.l86a
Tokyo.
Residence.
Graduate Political Law Section, Imperial University, Tokyo.
Education
Reputation.
Dull_but_tenacious
Personality.....Pleasing
Influence....Strong_with.professional.politicians
Has had long career as bureaucrat;_governor.of.
Previous career
several prefectures; vice-minister of Home Department; Home
Minister in Hara Cabinet; Ditto. in Takahashi Cabinet;-seven
times returned to House of Representatives and it still
member; founder.of.the.Seiyu-Honto-political-party,-Minister
of Railways in Inukai Cabinet.
Attitude toward the United States
Unknown.
Service in the United States...None,.but has.visited the.United States
Attitude toward other nations....Unknown.
Personal intelligence:
Marriage.......Wife,.Kyoko.
Children......2..sons,..2.daughters.
Religion
Recreations.....Baseball.and..travelling
Clubs.
Lineage.....Somurai.
REMARks (inoluding any outstanding feature of record in international matters, significant utteranoss for or against the United States, aed
if any, for any particular country, sto. In case of a journalist, give partioulars as to pres represented, souross of asormat
any, etc., and reputation for integrity, socuracy, and fairnes. If more spece is needed, use second shest):
Tokonami is kmown as the "waif" of Japanese political partis
he..bas.drifted.in.and..out.of..innumerable..combinations
lately been expelled from the Seiyukai. Personally he is
upright, patriotic, able and.conssientious-bureaue

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.95)
File name UCHIDA
Nationality
(Best knowa name only)
CONFIDENTIAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA
NotConpult Diplemetc Sriel ss0 of August 7, 1s, an referencs there. Form are to be prepee  typewrter
and two for Depertment.
Omees sending comamunicstions to the European Information Canter shodld forward extra copy of this form to EI. C.
PostEmbassy,.Tokyo
Date of preparation.Ju1y19, 1934 Prepared by 
Shinya
Family name...
UCHIDA
(Surname)
(Given names)
Highest rank or title..Senior grade 5th Court Rank
Position....Minister...of Railways
Date appointed....July...8,..1934... Party affiliations ....Seiyukai..(expelled)
Birthplace....Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan... Date of birth....December,.1880
Residence........Tokyo.
EducationGraduate Aoyama Gakuin ,Tokyo Higher Commercial School,l905
Reputation.__...Honest
Personality
Influence..Not..strong.with.nation
Previous careerPresident of Uchida Steamship Co., Uchida Shoji Co.
Imperial Ceramic Company; Director Meiji Shipping Co.;
Kokusai Steamship Company, Uchida Shipbuilding Co., Asahi
Marine Insurance Co.; appointed Parliamentary Minister of
Navy. during.Tanaka Cabinet;..elected member.of.House.of
Representatives 3 times; known as authority on marine and
naval.affairs.
Attitude toward the United States..Friendlym.made-large.donation--to-American
Mission School.
Service in the United States.
None
Attitude toward other nations.....Unknown
Personal intelligence:
Marriage.
Children....Son--(adopted)--Isam1,--born--1913.
Religion.
Christian
Recreations.
Clubs.
Lineage.
REMARKS (including any outstanding feature of record in international matters, significant utteranoes for or against the United tated, and
if any, for any particular country, eto. In cese of a journaliet, give partionlars as to press represented, souross of tnfoes
any, stc., and reputation for integrity, mcouracy, and fairness. If more spece is needed, uee sécond sbeet):

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 11, 1934.
MyH:
You might glance through Tokyo's despatch
No. 918 of August 3, 1934, transmitting the
text of the statement of policy issued by
Admiral Okada after the formation of his
Cabinet.
The more important portions of the
statement were cabled over by press
correspondents some weeks ago, while the
remainder is couched in the usual vague
language and seems to have no definite
meaning.
However, there does seem to be some
talk of a special session of the Diet
being called to discuss agricultural relief.
As pointed out in another despatch it may
be possible that the Government may, if the
Seiyukai shows itself to be intransigent,
dissolve the Diet and call for the holding
of a general election. I consider this,
however, an unlikely development.
FEYEHDVDLY
894.00/034.

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
4c
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 3, 1934.
No. 918.
Subject: Statement of Policy by Okada Cabinet.
31
PA  STAT
gil
PM 12 05
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAR
4
94 25
Department of State
894.00/534
AECISTANT BECRETATY
 D
GE STATE
S
40
894.00
A
ni7:
1..(
ONI
2
1934
The Honorable
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDMI.D
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the state-
3E
ment of policy of the recently formed cabinet of Admira
c33
Okada issued on July 20 and published in THE JAPAN ADVE
TISER of July 21, 1934. This version has been checked
and found to correspond accurately with the text issued
by the Foreign Office both in Japanese and English.
There is little to comment upon in this declaration
of policy which consists of general statements that the
Government will: (1) purify national politics and enforce
official discipline, thereby contributing to national
welfare

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
welfare; (2) purify the thought of the nation; (3)
endeavor to ensure international peace while leaving
nothing undone "for the fulfillment of the mission that
is Japan's"; (4) exert in the coming disarmament con-
ference "every effort for the assurance of national
safety through fair and justifiable means"; (5) endeavor
to restore the equilibrium between national income and
expenditure; (6) improve the nation's living conditions
with particular attention to those engaged in fishing,
farming and forestry; (7) establish a general indus-
trial policy embracing all branches of economic interests;
(8) pay especial attention to the cultivation of the
"Nippon Spirit" and to the educational system; (9) colla-
borate with the Government of "Manchukuo" on the basic
principle of mutual assistance and mutual benefit; (10)
pay ccreful attention to the improvement of the organs
of administration with a view to insuring promptness
and fuirness in the conduct of daily public business.
This statement of policy was immediately attacked
by members of the House of Peers, the Seiyukai, and by
prominent businessmen, the chief points of criticism
being the fact that it w: s considered to be vague and
that it did not state whether or not a special Diet Ses-
sion would be called to deal with the question of agri-
cultural relief. In addition, members of the House of
Peers pointed out that while the financial policy of
the previous Salto Cabinet had been excellent, they did
not believe that this policy should be followed blindly
by

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
by the new Cabinet; modification was required "to meet
changing conditions".
Premier Okada countered these criticisms by saying
that he had no intention of calling a special Diet session
until he had a concrete program drawm up for the relief
of conditions among the agricultural population. He
did not, however, comment upon the charge that the state-
ment was vague.
It is noteworthy that no statement concerning the
Government's policy with regard to the forthcoming naval
conference or the preliminary conversations was included;
this subject was touched upon later in an interview which
Premier Okada gave to the newspaper correspondents on
August 1 and will be discussed in a separate despatch.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Copy of statement.
Joseph C. Grew.
300.
ESC:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.97)
to despatch
98
from the
The Japan Advertiser
Tokyo. Saturday, July 21, 1934.
PEACE, PROSPERITY,
The text of the statement follows:
many situations and take ell 
"Having been commanded to organize
measures neossdery.
the Cabinet. I was struck with awe by
HONESTY,EDUCATION,
the realization of the gravity of the
the living conditions of the
responsibility. but I am determined to
meet the wishes of the Throne by ex-
erting my utmost endeavor in promo-
ARE AIMS OF OKADA
tion of the welfare of the nation and
ing and forestry. at the met
the fostering of the fundamentals of
deavaring to enhance the welfr
justice in foreign relations.
working class of the population.
"The country is now face to face with
7 The Government ses the
an extremely complicated situation in
Formal Statement of Policy Is
politics. foreign relations, finance, eco-
nontes and thought. but the Govern-
Issued by New Government
men' will devote itself to the estabiish-
ment of fair and just measures to met
ment of foreign commerce
crease the income of the nation Th
After Throne Approves
these situations. hoping for the co-
lch a peneral indumtrial poliey
fore. the Government intends to
operation of the nation
will embrace all branch
"The Governmen! announces as fol-
STRONG DEFENSE NEEDED
low the fundunen'ds of the policies
it will pursue.
"1 The Government believes that
Premier Says Fair and Justi-
ketenity and fait aess of administration
b.anches of industrial enterpris'
ate essential to the procurement for
to cope with the tendency towaed
fiable Steps Will Be Taken
the Government of the faith of the
creased complexity in their relstiom
at Armament Meeting
tation. and therefore it will purify
8 The Government will pay
politics and enforce official discipline
cial attention to the cultivation a
trictly at the same time rectifying
Nippon Spirit" and the re
the evils that formerly were present
the individual personality of the natle
MANCHUKUO IS MENTIONED
in central and loca! administrations.
is well as the development of intel
Thus it hopes to awaken the nation
lectual faculties befitting the tme 
to the true functioning of constitutional
Premier Okada in a formal statement
admunistration. thereby contributing to
of policy yesterday promised the na-
the advancement of national welfare.
consideration will be paid to the 
tion that his Government will endeavor
Will Purify Thought
cational systems.
to foster peace but will prepare de-
fenses against any menace in the ex-
ter the National Spirit and purify the
thought of the nation by adhering to
'2 The Government intends to fos-
amity between Japan and Manchu
 making a tremendous contributlen
"9. The Government recogmises th
isting world alignment: that it will en-
the spirit of the Imperial Rescripts
toward peace in the Far East, and the
deavor to establish equihibrium between
granted the ration. By making clear
Government is determined to colle
national income and expenditures; that
the national status to the mind of the
rate with the Empine of Manchu
1: will advance foreign commerce to
prople the causes of dangerous
thought will be eliminated.
for the wholesome developsment
that Empire. and. acting on the
assure a greater national revenue: that
"3. The Governinent will endeavor
principle of mutual asistanse
It will promote plans to assure every-
to insure international peace and to
mutual benefit. endeavor to harve
one a means of livelihood. that it will
contribute thereby to the welfare of
optimistic result.
promote the best in education: that it
mankind. which is indeed the inflexible
10 The Government recogmi
State policy of Japan. While culti-
will continue the cultivation of Man-
vating amicable relations with foreim
chukuo. and that it will endeavor to
adapt governmental processes to the re-
eccomplish everything that the exist-
Powers. the Government intends to
the organs of administration
quirements of the people.
The statement was submitted to the
ing position of Japan requires. and will
leave nothing undone for the fulfil-
ernmental undertakings in 
Throne yesterday afternoon after it had
ment of the mission that is Japan's.
make them more adequately 
been approved by the Cabinet. and was
"4. National deferse is an indispen-
published at 6 o'clock. The Cabinet
aable factor in the existence of ne-
terday morning and spent the time
began its session at 10.25 o'clock yes-
tions. and the Government will endea-
vor to substantiate de ense measures
Consequently the Government 
until 1 30 o'clock in study and dis-
to meet the demands of the time and
to make a thoroughgoing study 
cussion of the statement.
the goir.g state of affairs among the
mcans of improving the entire re
The amity between Japan and Man-
Powers In the coming dimrmament
of administrative organs."
chukuo. the statement said. is making
negotiations the Government will ex-
a tremendous contribution toward peace
ert every effort for the assurance of
In the Far East. Elimination of
national safery through fair and justi-
dangerous thought. it was stated. will
fuble means
be sought through taking to the people
"5. The Government believes that
the conception of their national status.
reinforcement of the foundations of
Efforts to insure world peace is declared
State finance ia of paramount import-
an "inflexible State policy of Japan."
ance in this eventful period in both
but the statement pledges the Okada
foreign and domestic affairs. Con-
Government to the exertion of every
siderable diffculty is of course to be
effort at the 1935 disarmament confer-
anticipated in restoring State finance
once for the assurance of national mfe-
to normal because of the present ex-
ty "through fair and justißable means."
trarordinary cireumstances, but every
Problosme Are Mamy
endeavor will be made by the Gov-
Stremm ia laid on the "multiplleity
ernment toward improvement of ne-
and complexity" of economic policies
tional resources, thereby restoring the
at heme and abroed. and the Govern-
equilibrium of income and outso.
ment mays it ils conecious that for each
To Asmtet Poople
separate problem a remedy must be
"8. Stabilization of the neans of
devised. A direct promise ls mede for
livelibood for everyone requires the
improvement in the condition of those
mest urgent attention. and besause of
ensaped in industry. farming faking
the multlplicity and the complesdity of
and ferestry, and promotion of industry
the domestic economic problema, and
in soteral, aceordleg to the statement,
because of the peculiar trend of lnser-
é among the prime purpesse of the new
aetional opprnics, the Goreramne
Governtment.
tmowe it antast make piane to amete

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 10, 1934.
Following is a brief review of Tokyo's
despatch No. 908 of July 31; 1934, which
describes the present position of political
parties in Japan.
The assassination of Premier Inukai in
May, 1932, was a clear indication by the
militarists and other reactionaries that
professional politicians would no longer be
permitted to control the national destiny.
Consequently when Admiral Saito formed his
Cabinet he virtually disregarded the political
parties and selected his associates entirely
with a view to their fitness. However, when
Admiral Okada formed his Cabinet last July
he made definite efforts to propitiate the
political parties and arranged for their
representation in his Cabinet.
The Embassy believes that the change
that has taken place indicates a revival of
the influence of the political parties and
a gradual rise of the parties "in the
estimation of the nation". It concludes from
these circumstances that there has been a
corresponding decrease in the influence of
the military and reactionary elements.
The Seigukai has been divided into three
groups: one, which favors cooperation with
the

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
the present Government, a second, under the
leadership of the president of the party,
which is opposed to cooperation with the
Government and advocates the return of power
to the political parties, and a third faction
which holds pretty much the same opinion but
is hostile to the present leadership in the
party. The Minseito, the minority party,
supports the Government.
In view of covert threats by the
Sei ukai to impeach the Government at the
next session of the Diet, there has been
talk of the Government calling a special
session of the Diet for the ostensible
reason of dealing with urgent economic
problems but in reality to create an
occasion to dissolve the Diet, which would
call for the holding of a general election.
The Government is said to be, however, not
certain whether the present situation
fulfills the requirement of the Constitution
that in the event of "urgent necessity" a
special session of the Diet may be called.
It is suggested that after reading this
review you begin on page 8 of the despatch
and read the section marked "Future of the
Political Parties in Japan".
Comment:

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
Comment:
The despatch does not explain sufficient-
ly clearly why the Army and Navy should be
concerned over the effect of the vetoing by
the Seiyukai of the military and naval
estimates for the fiscal year beginning
Apr11 1, 1935.
The Diet opens at the end of December
and immediately takes a recess until about
the 25th of January, when important bills
are introduced by the Government. If the
budget is not approved by the Diet the
expenditures of the Government are limited
under the Constitution to the expenditures
authorized in the budget for the preceding
year. The despatch explains that the naval
and military estimates for the coming
fiscal year are greater than the expenditures
authorized for the present year.
Upon the dissolution of the Diet a
certain period of time (I believe 60 days)
must elapse before the general elections
can be held. If, therefore, the Diet
voted down the budget at its regular
session, there would not be sufficient time
to dissolve the Diet, hold the elections,
and convene the new Diet before the end of
the fiscal year. In those circumstances
the

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 4 -
the only way in which additional funds
could be obtained for the Army and Navy
would be to declare the existence of
"urgent necessity" and convene a special
session. It is obvious that the Government
would like to avoid describing Japan's
international relations as creating "urgent
necessity".
It is my personal opinion that the
Seiyukai would hesitate to invite an act
of dissolution, as I believe there has
been no case on record in the last twenty
years where a Government has lost a general
election.
FE:EH DLY
894.00/535

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
: Tokyo, July 31, 1934.
No. 908.
Subject: Present Position of Political Parties in Japan.
Aly
894.00
SosymJE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894,00/535
GG
Degartment of State
AI
22
DEPA
ON1
2x2
MID
COPIES SENT TO
The Honorable
O.N.I. ANDM I.D.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
SEP 1 3 1934
FILED
I have the honor to report that, although the recently.
formed Cabinet is alleged to be a "national", or non-party,
Cabinet, there appears to be a tendency to revert to the
party system of government in Japan, while at the same time
the political parties, which have been distinctly out of
public favor since 1932, appear to be regaining some of their
former influence. This is indicated by the attention which
has been paid, both by the public and by the members of the
Cabinet, to the attitude of the political parties toward
the present political situation.
When

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
When the Saito Cabinet was formed in May, 1932, almost
no attention was given to the desires or influences of the
political parties. The assassination of Premier Inukai,
the leader of the Seiyukai, had very definitely demonstrated
to the professional politicians that certain factions of the
nation (primarily the military and the reactionaries) would
no longer permit the political parties, in their then posi-
tion of dependence upon the financial houses, to control the
government. Consequently when Admiral Viscount Saito formed
his Cabinet, he made almost no attempt to conciliate the
political parties and selected his ministers of state from
all factions, regardless of their influence or status. When
Admiral Okada formed his Cabinet in July, 1934, however, he
called upon the leaders of the political parties in person
and offered the Seiyukai and the Minseito each two posts in
the new Cabinet. This was later changed to three posts for
the Seiyukai and two for the Minseito, the offers being ac-
cepted by the Minseito but not by the Seiyukai. The three
Seiyukai members who individually accepted the posts in the
Okada Cabinet were summarily expelled from the party. The
fact, however, that a certain number of posts in the Cabinet
were offered to each political party shows that a need was felt
of conciliating the parties.
Moreover, in the selection of Parliamentary Vice Ministers
or Counselors, Admiral Okada endeavored to conciliate the poli-
tical parties, by appointing nine Vice Ministers from the
Seiyukai, nine from the Minseito and six from the House of
Peers. The nine selected from the Seiyukai were promptly ex-
pelled from the party, indicating the irreconcilable attitude
of

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
of that party. The Peers also apparently are not satis-
fied with their representation in the Cabinet (no member
of the Cabinet proper is a peer) and are reported to be
inclined to adopt a cold attitude toward the Cabinet.
The fact, however, that overtures were made to the
two leading political parties indicates the importance which
is being placed on their influence in the nation today, as
compared with their influence two years ago. In addition
to indicating the gradual rise of the political parties in
the estimation of the nation, the fact that efforts were
made to conciliate the parties indicatec a significant decrease
in the influence of the military and reactionary elements,
which were and still are opnosed to the "corrupt" political
parties.
Position of the Seiyukai.
The Seiyukai, which has been striving for some time
past for a return to power, is decidedly opposed to the
Okada Cabinet, but it is doubtful if its influence will
be sufficiently great to cause the overthrow of the Govern-
ment. The party itself is split with dissension, there
being three f ctions more or less opposed to each other.
The principal faction is that of Dr. Kisaburo Suzuki,
the President of the party, who has issued a statement
to the press definitely opposing the Okada government. He
denounced the Okada Cabinet as a "bureaucratic" government,
composed of officials with no contact with the people, and
stated that if the Seiyukai believes in constitutional
government.

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
The second faction in importance in the Seiyukai
consists of the Tokonami section. This section, led by
the present Minister for Communications, Mr. Takejiro
Tokonami, and including Mr. Tatsunosuke Yamasaki, Minister
for Agriculture end Forestry, Mr. Shinya Uchida, Minister
for Railways, and some thirty other members of the party,
has long been in conflict with the Suzuki faction and now,
with the definite defection of its three most prominent
members to the side of the Okada Cabinet, may possibly
secede from the party. There has been considerable
discussion of the possibility of a coalition of the Toko-
nami faction of the Seiyrukai with the Minseito, thus
creating a new party which may be able to control a ma-
jority in the Lower House of the Diet. The attitude of
the thirty followers of Mr. Tokonami does not yet appear
to have been definitely fixed, however, and the latest
reports would indicate that there is a possibility of a
reconciliation between the Tokonumi faction nd the rest
of the Beiyukai, by means of which Seiyukai support of
the Okada Cabinet may be assured and the necessity of a
general election for the purpose of obtaining support
for the Government may be avoided.
A third faction in the Seiyukai is led by Mr. Fusa-
nosuke Kuhara, formerly a shipping magnate of Kobe with a
somewhat unsavory reputation. Mr. Kuhara has been endeavoring
to seize control of the Seiyukai, but it is now reported that
he is seeking peace with Dr. Suzuki, in an attempt to avoid
a break-up of the party.
The

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
A
The older members of the Seiyukai are reported to be
working to prevent a split in the party by a reform from
within. They believe that recuperation of the party can
be attained by a revision of the system of management by
means of which Dr. Suzuki has become a virtual autocrat
within the party, and by restraining the influence of Mr.
Kuhara, which has not been conducive either to peace within
the party or to public confidence outside the party. Other
groups in the party are advocating peace within the party
at any price, as the public is losing confidence in the
political parties because of their constant internal dis-
sensions and because some measure of peace is necessary
for the restoration of party government.
The Position of the Minseito.
The Minseito, the minority party in the Lower House
of the Diet, has not for some time past been in a position
sufficiently strong to aspire to the formation of a ministry
itself, and consequently it has willingly cooperated both
with the Seito and the Okada Governments. The party has
been maintaining its solidarity and, to a greater extent
than the Seiyukai, the respect of the public. At the same
670
time, the Minseito has not nearly so strong a political
6.70
of
1340
machine as has the Seiyukai, and in case a general election
it is doubtful if the Minseito would obtain a working
majority in the Lower House. As mentioned before, however,
it is possible that the Minseito will be strengthened by
the adherence of the Tokonami faction from the Seiyukai.
Parties in the House of Peers.
It is reported that the two most powerful groups, or
parties, in the House of Peers, the Kenkyukai and the Koseikai,
are

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
are inclined to be cold toward the Okada Cabinet, partly
because Admiral Okada failed to include a member of the peerage
in his Cabinet, and partly because it is considered that the
Admiral bungled the formation of his Cabinet and thereby
aroused the active opposition of the Seiyukai. At any rate,
when the Admiral approached the leaders of the two groups
for the purpose of obtaining their cooperation in the appoint-
ment of Parliamentary Vice Ministers, they are reported to
have declined to give their assistance. Consequently it is
assumed by the newspapers that these two powerful groups in
the Peers, while perhaps not actively opposing the present
Government, will not give it whole-hearted support. Admiral
Okada is said to have depended upon his Minister for Home
Affairs, Mr. Fumio Goto, who is a nominated member of the
House of Peers, to strengthen his position with the Upper
House, but apparently this means of approach has failed to
accomplish the result intended.
Question of Dissolution of the Diet.
When it became obvious that the principal faction in the
Seiyukai, the majority party in the Lower House, would actively
oppose the Okada Cabinet, the question arose as to whether or
not the Government would convene a special session of the Diet,
ostensibly to consider the rice and silk relief problems,but
actually for the purpose of dissolving the Diet and calling
for a general election, in the expectation of obtaining
enough support in the new Diet to carry out its policies.
During the previous Diet session a joint resolution was
introduced

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
introduced by the Seiyukai and the Minseito, calling upon
the then Government to convene a special session of the Diet
in the autumn of 1934 for the purpose of considering
agrarian relief, especially the relief of rice and silk
growers. The Seiyukai maintains that the present Govern-
ment is bound by this resolution to call a special session,
although the price of rice has risen appreciably in the
meantime and has rendered the problem of agrarian relief
less urgent. The fall in the price of silk cocoons, how-
ever, has placed the sericulturists in a bad position and
therefore there is still a demend for a special session.
The Premier has not yet given out his attitude toward the
guestion, and the Seiyukai threatens to impeach the Govern-
ment at the next regular session of the Diet if the ob-
ligation imposed by the joint resolution is not fulfilled.
The faction of the Seiyukai demanding the special session
is that of Dr. Suzuki, and it is assumed that he wishes
to have the special session called in order to assert the
strength of his party and compel the Government to conform
to the desires of the Seiyukai.
Another- and perhaps a more cogent- reason for calling
a special session in the autumn is connected with the passing
of the budget. The Army and Navy budget estimates for
the coming fiscal year are considerably in excess of those
for the present year and it is certain that every effort
will be made by the Army and Navy to have them passed. If
the Seiyukai, however, insists upon opposing the Govern-
ment, it is more than probable that the Government's budget
will be singled out for attack and that it will not be passed.
In

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
In such case the budget for the previous year will be
continued, which will not please the Army and Navy and
may cause further acts of violence. Consequently the
Cabinet may find it necessary to convene the Diet in
the autumn, dissolve it at the first opportunity,
and call a general election in the hope of breaking
the Seiyukai's majority and obtaining the support
necessary to pass the Government measures. In such
case a special session would have to be called in Sep-
tember, in order to hold the general election in October
and have the new members of the Diet inducted into
office in time for the regular session in December.
The Cabinet, however, appears to be in doubt. as to
the advisability of calling a special session (probably
because of fear that & favorable majority will not be
returned in case a general election becomes necessary)
and is said to be debating the question of whether or
not, under the Japanese constitution, a special session
can be calleá for the purpose of dissolution or of
seeking a vote of confidence.
Future of the Political Parties in Japan.
The Okada Government is said to have been intended
by the Genro, Prince Saionji, to pave the way to a return
to normal politics and normal constitutional government
in Japan. The Okada Cabinet is variously termed "national",
"bureaucratic" or "quasi-party" by the different news-
papers, according to their political complexion, but
in fact it seems to be a super-party Cabinet with much
more

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
more contact with the political world than the Saito
Cabinet had, and consequently indicates an intention
on the part of the Genro (who is n ardent advocate of
constitutional government) and other senior statesmen
to lead the nation gredually back to normal political
conditions.
At the same time, the HOCHI in its issue of July 19,
1934, asserts that, disgusted with the corrupt connection
between the political perties and the financial interests,
the senior statesmen reconinended the organization of a
"national" Cabinet, nd that the bureaucrats are taking
advantage of the on ortunity offered them to endeavor
to crush the political parties. It is also asserted
in the editorial referred to that the leaders of the
nation vere opposed to the present monopolistic system
of capitalism in Janen and wanted to replace it with a
system of managed economy, and consequently recommended
a "national" Cabinet in tead of a party Cabinet, the
parties being affiliated with the mononolistic financial
houses.
There has been some speculation on the part of the
newspapers as to whether or not Admiral Okada deliberately
moved to spiit the Seiyukai when he asked Mr. Tokonami,
Mr. Uchida and Mr. Yamasaki
to join his Cabinet. It is
claimed by some that it was a bungling move, as it pro-
voked the active opposition of the major section of the
party, but others regard it as a very astute move, cal-
culated to split the Seiyukai and thus destroy its hold
on the Lower House of the Diet.
Another

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
Another report, quoted in an editorial in the FUKUOKA
NICHI NICHI of July 19, 1934, is to the effect that Mr.
Fumio Goto, Minister for Home Affairs in the present Cabinet,
is highly dissatisfied with the political parties in Japan
and is planning to organize a young men's Cabinet with
Prince Konoye as Premier. It is said that Prince Konoye
and Mr. Goto are closely allied, and that Mr. Goto is in
favor of a purely bureaucratic form of government. It
is also reported that both of them are, to some extent,
at least, in sympathy with the so-called "fascist" element
in Japan.
As will be noted from the above, the political situation
in Japan can haraly be called static; it is rather in a
state of flux, and what will emerge later cannot be pre-
dicted at present. The fact remains, however, that there
is decidedly less tendency on the part of the nation's
leaders to ignore the political parties than there was two
years ago.
Respectfully yours
Nth
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
X

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.98)
DIAIE
RECLIVED
AUG 2.7 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION Or
Division of Current Information
IRDS
Information Series No. 28.
August 24, 1934.
CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
JAPAN.
AUG:2.9.1934
General.
Department of State
894.00
Japan is a constitutional monarchy. Under the Constitu-
tion all legislative, judicial.and administrative powers are
vested in the Emperor: laws are enacted, with the concurrence
894.00/53
of Parliament, by the Emperor; justice is dealt out in his
name; and the country is administered by him through his min-
isters. The Cabinet of Ministers is non-parliamentary, being
responsible only to the Emperor. Under the Constitution, the
Emperor "has the supreme command of the Army and Navy" and
"determines the organization and peace standing of the Army
and Navy". These provisions operate to give to the military
and naval establishments, as in the case of the former German
36
Empire, a marked measure of freedom from control by the Cabinet.
Domestic Political and Economic Conditions.
Although Japan enjoyed during the War a degree of pros-
perity such as it had never experienccd before, the depression
which began in 192o was perhaps felt more severely in Japan
than in any other important industrial country. Owing to the
very heavy material losses resulting from the earthquake of 1923
and to a severe financial crisis thut took place in 1927, the
country had not returned to normally prosperous conditions when
in 1929 the present general world-wide economic depression set
in. There had been a period of almost ten years during which
the prices of raw silk and of rice, upon which the Japanese
agricultural element is primarily dependent for livelihood,
remained near or below the cost of production. Conditions had
developed similar to those which later developed in the Unite
FILED
States: farms were mortgaged and mortgages were foreclosed, 
crops were hypothecated, and the farmers as a class were reduced
to the most straitened circumstances. The Government had mada
but the measures employed were largely ineffectual. The urban
S
population had been the principal beneficiary from the favorable
foreign trade conditions which developed in i928 and 1929, but
those conditions could not survive in the face of the new world-
wide depression which began in 1929.
In short, no substantial progress had been made toward
solving certain basic problems which arose from an increasing
population rapidly approaching the point of saturation under the
conditions then existing. At a timo when there were marked.
evidences of widespread social unrest and discontent, atten-
tion was drawn by certain sensational events to the existence
on a wide scale of corrupt practices by politicians. There
occurred a general revulsion against political parties which
resulted

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
resulted in a corresponding loss of popular confidence in
parliamentary government.
The temper of the people was such that th y. were prepared
to look favorably upon any program calculated to break the
impassc in which they conceived themsclves to be. Following
the action taken by the Japanese Army in Manchuria in September,
1931, which was represented to the Japanese people as "positive"
action calculated to lead inter alia to a solution of Japan's
economic and social problems -- problems which the government
of politicians had been unable to solve --, the party system
fell into disrepute. During the past two years authority has
been in the hands of a Government representative of, or favored
by, the various elements which have a voice in national affairs.
The political parties still exist but during recent months the
weakness inherent in them has asserted itself more and more
conspicuously through internal dissent, resignations, and the
ostablishment of new political groups. Since l93l, the military
element -- not the political party element -- has been the
dominant factor in the government.
The phenomenal increase in Japan's foreign trade during
the recent years of goneral world depression has been popularly
attributed to low wages, depreciated currency and "dumping".
Low wages and the depreciation in the exchange value of Japan-
ese currency undoubtedly have been and are now important fac-
tors, but another factor the importance of which is being in-
creasingly recognized is a plan, inștituted after several years
of study, to coordinate and make more effective Japan's agen-
cies of production and distribution. Thero has been established
a governmental bureau whose principal functions are to bring
about elimination of unnecessary costs of production, to regu-
late and to reduce competition among producers, and to conduct
research and investigations into new methods of production.
The bureau also has authority to supervise the activities of
exporters with a view to eliminating competition and to pre-
venting in this connection practices injurious to Japanese com-
mercial interests.
Substantial results have been achieved both in the field
of production and in the field of distribution. For example,
in the rayon industry manufacturing costs were reduccd in the
two years 1930 to 1932 by 60 percent, while in the iron and
steel industry the index of efficiency bused on a standard of
100 in 1925 was raised in 1933 to 208. Manufacturers and ex-
porters of cach principal commodity have been required to form
a guild, which guild has authority under law to apportion for-
eign markets among its members, to inspect articles intended
for export and when advisable to refuse a license for exporta-
tion. Illustrating the coordination and centralized direction
which are featured in the plan, the purchasing of foreign com-
modities has been transferred from one country to another in or-
der to meet complaints of those countries which purchased more
from Japan than they were able to sell to Japan. For example,
in the case of Argentina, which formerly had an unfavorable
balance of trade with Japan, the Japanese increased their pur-
chases (largely of wool and other primary commodities hitherto
purchased elsewhere) during the first four months of the
present year to a point where Argentina exported to Japan
approximately six times as much as it did in the same period in
1932, with the result that Argentina sold approximately twice
as

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
as much to Japan as Japan sold to Argentina.
The latest information available indicates that the rate
of incrcase which occurred in Japan's total exports during
1932 and 1933 is still being maintained. Its exports for
the first four months of the present year are approximately
80 percent greater than its exports for the corresponding
period in 1932.
According to official reports, practically all the im-
portant industrial and commercial firms in Japan were at the
end of 1933 in sounder financial condition than in 1930, their
total profits had been materially increased, their debts had
been reduced or been refunded at lower rates, and their re-
serves were larger. Notwithstanding the depreciation of the
currency in terms of foreign exchange, labor costs have ad-
vanced very slightly, and although commodity prices have moved
upward the advance has been relatively smailer than the degree
to which the currency has been depreciated. There has been
some inflation in note issue but such inflation is probably
warranted by improved business conditions; and there appears
to be no lack of confidence in the currency. Total bank de-
posits have increased during the past three years by about a
billion. yen, and there is no evidence that there has been dur-
ing that period any decrease in the capital resources of the
country.
On the other hand the situation wiih respect to Govern-
ment finances is less favorable, due to the issuance of bonds
and treasury notes to mcet the heavy deficits of the national
budget. The actual increase in national bonded indebtedness
during the past three years has been about three billion yen.
So long as the foreign tradc of Japan can be maintained at
approximately the present levels, there would seem to be no
reasonable basis for any suggestion that a collapse of the
financial structure of the country is impending. However,
measures have been taken or are under contemplation in various
countries to restrict imports from Japan, and if such measures
should collectively result in a material curtailment of Japan's
markets in foreign countrics, it is not unlikely that the ex-
pansion in Japanese industry recently effected in anticipa-
tion of a growing demand for Japanese products may give rise
to serious problems.
Commercial Relations with India.
The boycott instituted in 1931 by the Chinese against
Japanese goods forced the Japanese textile industry to develop
foreign markets elsewhere which would absorb the production
of Japanese milis which had hitherto found their most important
outlet in China. Exports of Japanese cotton textiles to India
during 1932 were substantially increascd, largely at the ex-
pense of competing British manufacturers. The Indian duty
on cotton textiles from other than British countries was
finally increased to 75 porcent ad valorem which afforded
British textiles a substantial preference. donsiderable re-
sentment was felt in Japan against both the British and the
Indian Governments over what was considered to be an act of
discrimination against Japanese goods, and the Japanese cotton
spinners

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
spinners instituted in the carly part of 1933 a boycott against
the purchase of Indian cotton. Japan normally purchases from
15 to 20 percent of India's cotton crop, and the Japanese boy-
cott, which was effectively maintained, was sharply felt by the
Indian cotton growers. Tho British cotton spinners, on the
other hand, are not important purchascrs of Indian cotton -
for the reason that the British mills are not equipped to use
the slort staple Indian cotton. Yielding to pressure from the
Indian cotton growers, the Indian Government with the approval
of the British Government agreed to enter into a conference
with the Japanese Government with a view to finding a mutually
satisfactory settlement of this problem.
A conference was held this year and, after several months
of deliberation, a convention was concluded. The convention
provides that the Indian tariff on Japanese cotton textiles
shall be reduced from 75 porcent ad valorem to 50 percent
ad valorem, and it permits the entry unnually into India
of 325,000,000 square yards of textiles from Japan (approxi-
mately the amount imported in 1931), provided that Japan pur-
chases annually 1,Oo0,Ooo bales of Indian cotton. The conven-
tion further provides that if the Japanese purchase 1,500,000
bales or more of Indian cotton the maximum quota for imports
of Japanese textiles into India shall be increased to
400,000,000 square yards. This convention has not as yet, ac-
cording to the most recent information available to the Depart-
ment, been ratified, but the two Governments are proceeding in
accordance with the teims of the convention.
Commerciel Relations wi ch the Netherland East Indies.
The Netherland Easi Indics have for some years been an
important market for Japanese goods but following Japan's
serious difficulties with China which began in 193l particular
efforts were made to develop oxports to that area. In 1933,
Japan's oxports to the Netherland East Indies exceeded in
value its exports to any other country except the United
States, Manchuria and India. The Netherland East Indies Gov-
ernment took successive measures to rustrict imports from
Japan, but the Japanese, who have for many years enjoyed a
favorable balance in their trade with the Netherland East
Indies, took no retaliatory measures. The Japanese Government,
however, entered vigorous protests, and, after protracted
conversations, arrangements were made for the holding of a
conference between the Japanese Government and the Government
of the Netherland East Indies to explore the possibilities
of regulating their commercial relations by treaty. A
Japanese trade delegation arrived at Batavia on June 3, 1934,
and has since been in negotiation with representatives of the
Netherland East Indies.The likelihood of the conference
yielding a great measure of success is regarded with pessimism
both in Japanese and in Netherland quarters. It is understood
that the Netherland East Indiea Govcrnment has indicated readi-
ness to grant certain concessions to thc Japanese Government on
condition that Japan increase its purchases of Java sugar. The
efforts of the Japanese Government to dovelop the sugar industry
in the Japanese colony of Taiwan would appear to be an obstacle
to the acceptance by the Japanese of that condition.
Relations

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Relations with Soviet Union.
The relations between Japan and the Soviet Union which
have been severely tried by the almost complete elimination
by Japan of Russian influence from North Manchuria, are almost.
entirely political or politico-economic in character, the
volume of trade between the two countries being inconsiderable.
The issue which has attracted the widest attention is that
which involves the Chinese Eastern Railway, a railway line
which was built by Russia across North Manchuria as a shorter
alternative route to the Amur section of the Trans-Siberian
Railway. For over a year negotiations have been held between
the Soviet Government on the one hand and the Japanese Gover-
ment and the regime in Manchuria on the other hand looking
toward the sale to "Mancnukuo" of the sovict interest in the
railway. It is understood that concessions have been made
on both sides and that the difiorence between the price asked
by the Soviet Governmont and the price offered by the prospec-
tive purchasers has been narrowed down, but there has been
achieved thus far no agrcement. In fact, the negotiations
have reached, or appcar to be reaching, a state of deadlock.
By agreemont with the Soviet Union, Japar se nationals
have the privilege of fishing in Soviet territ :ial waters.
Every year, however, disputes arise in regard o the areas
in which the Japanese are permitted to fish and the amount
of the fees to be paid to the Soviet Union.
The fact that the boundary between Manchuria and Siberia
has not been accurately defined has been another fruitful
source of trouble between the Soviet Union and Japan. The
Soviet Government and the rogime in Manchuria have undertaken
by conference to define the boundary.
At the end of 1931, the Soviet Government proposed to
the Japanese Governmont the conclusion of a treaty of non-
aggression. It has been reported that the Japanese Government
stated in its reply to that proposal that the various questions
outstanding between the two countries snould be adjusted prior
to the conclusion of a treaty of non-aggression; and that on the
other hand the Soviet Government has reiterated that the con-
clusion of a treaty of non-aggression would facilitate the ad-
justment of those issues.
There is thus in the relations between Japan and the Soviet
Union the basis for constant disputes of a sporadic character.
In addition thcre are in the relations between the countries cer-
tain fundamental opposing forces, among which may be mentioned
(a) the conflict of interests and aspirations in and with respect
to Continental Eastern Asia; (b) Japan's repugnance to communism;
(c) the concern felt in gertain quarters in Japan over the
presence of Soviet air forces at Vladivostok, which is only
some six hundred miles from the large industrial cities of
Japan.
Relations with China.
The political relations of Japan with virtually all the
other Great Powers may bo regarded as revolving around its
relations

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
relations with China. Japan's trade with China, including
Manchuria, is second only to its trade with the United States.
Japan has invested something over a billion dollars in China,
and there are more Japanese nationals residing in China than
in any other foreign country. The absence of a strong central
government in China, and the civil and military disorders which
have prevailed in that country over an extended period of time,
on the one hand, and the presence in a nearby country of a
well-disciplined, vigorous and militant people, as are the
Japanese, on the other hand, are factors which have operated
toward creating and maintuining conditions of unrest in the
relations between these two countries, and, incident thereto,
in the relations between Japan and the other Powers that have
interests in China.
NOTE: Certain phases of the relatins between China and
Japan are discussed in a separate number of Information Series
which is devoted to the subject of China.
Relations with thc United States.
The interests of the United States in Japan are primarily
commercial and secondarily philanthropic. The United States is
the largest consumer of Japan's exports, while the value of the
exports of the United States to Japan is exceeded only by the
value of its exports to (a) Great Britain and to (b) Canada.
The United States ordinarily purchases about 95 percent of
Japan's total exports of raw silk, while Japan is the largest
foreign purchaser of American raw cotton. American investments
in Japan, consisting of American holdings of Japanese government,
municipal and industrial bonds, and investments of American cap-
ital in American-managed industrial enterprises in Japan, and
invostments by missionary bodies in churches, schools and other
institutions, are estimated to total about $400,000,000.
The majority of Americans resident in Japan are engaged
in missionary and educational work. American missionaries
founded several of the principal private Japanese universities
and colleges, and they took a position of leadership in the
establishing of hsopitals and asylums and in other forms of
eleemosynary work. Most of the principal American missions
are preparing, as the Japanese churches show a capacity to
administer and maintain themselves, to curtail the scope of
their work with a view to eventual withdrawal from Japan.
An important problem in the relations between the
United States and Japan is that of naval disarmament. Al-
though no authoritative disclosure of Japan's naval policy
has thus far been made, it would seem to be clear from state-
ments made by prominent Japanese naval officers that the
Japanese Navy, supported by the nationalistic element of the
country, favors abandoning the ratio principle in regulating
naval armament and substituting therefor an allotment to the
powers parties to the naval treaties of total tonnages which
each would be free, within certain limits, to distribute in
accordance with its needs among the various categories of
vessels.
Since the passage of the Unitcd States Immigration
Act of 1924 there has existed in Japan resentment against
the

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the United States because of the provisions of that Act
which operate to prevent the entry into the United States
of Japanese as immigrants. The question of legislation
to change our immigration laws is, of course, a matter for
the consideration primarily of the lugislative branch of the
Government. The primary concern of the Department of State
in reference to the question of amending the existing law so
as to remove the provisions which wound Japanese pride re-
lates to the effect which the introduction in Congress of a
proposal for a change would have and the effect which the
adoption or the rejection of such a proposal would have,
in the field of our international relations. There is sub-
stantial evidence that thcre are, both on the Pacific Coast
and in other sections of the country, not only opinions
favorable but opinions unfavorable to proposals for altering
at this time the provisions of the immigration law.
Summary.
In tho relations between the United States and Japan,
there are outstanding very few problems which are of concern
exclusively to the tvo countries.
There are, however, several important and fundamental
problems affecting on the one hand Japan and on the other
hand several other nations, including the United States,
which are multilateral in character. Among such problems
are those arising from differences of attitude and view in
regard to Japan's action in Manchuria and to Japan's policy.
vis-a-vis China as disclosed in part by official acts and
in part by statements of highly placed Japanese authorities.
Other multilateral problems are those which arc created by.
Japan's commercial oxpansion and the competition which flows
therefmom. Another problem of international concern wherein
Japan is involved along with other powers is that of general
disarmament.
Because Japan and the United States both are powers
on the Pacific Ocean, becausc they both are outstandingly
important powers in that area, and because they differ in
view and attitude with regard to a number of fundamental
problems of international contacts, the relations between
the two countries are of first rank importance and concern
to the American people and tho American Governnent.

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 22, 1934.
LDS:
SXH:
Tokyo's despatch No. 1068 of
November 30, 1934:
The two major Japanese political
parties, the Seiyukai and the Minseito, are
endeavoring, with s ome success, to regain
some of their lost prestige and influence.
They have announced a "coalition", which on
examination seems rather to be a temporary
truce in the attempt to carry public favor.
There seems to be no indication that
the two parties have come to a fundamental
agreement on policies. The Seiyukai is
onnosed to the present Okada Government,
while the Minseito has supported the
government since its incention. However,
their rapproachment at this time may assist
in restoring normal constitutional government
by enabling the parties to take concerted
action.
WTT
WTT/DLY
894.00/537

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 30, 1934.
No. 1068.
Subject:
Position of the Political Parties in Japan.
Copry in FE(381)
894.00
Division of
WTT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
STVIE
4 E    52
DEC 17 1934
$女
OIATIONS
RDS
DI AISIOAN OF
Department of State
94.00/537
茶
R
C=
File
POP EERE EEEON-CREEK
V
In U S A
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
JAN 2 1 1935
Washington.
Sir:
In recent months Japanese leaders, the press, and
the public have manifested a tendency to pay more atten-
tion to the political parties, which have been in public
disfavor since 1932 but appear to be retrieving some of
their former influence.* This tendency was especially
noticeable at the time of the formation of the Okada
Cabinet in July and has been increasing in the past five
535
months.
F
*Embassy's despatch No. 908 July 31, 1934.
11

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
months. Now that a special session of the Diet has been
convened (on November 28) the two principal political
parties, the Seiyukai and the Minseito, will have an op-
portunity to enunciate their views to the public and ac-
tively to exert greater efforts toard making their in-
fluence felt in the political life of the country.
In fact, two days before the convening of the extra-
oroinary session of the Diet, the Seiyukai and Minseito
issued a joint statement announcing a "coalition", of
which the following translation appeared in the JAPAN
ADVERTISER of November 28:
"The responsibility of the political
parties, which are based upon the popu-
lar will and exist to carry out parlia-
ment ry governnent, is especially heavy
at this time, when the country faces dif-
ficulties both at home and abroad. Under
the circumstances, they should act in ac-
corance with great principles, forgetting
their historical antagonisms and personal
feelings and ending their scramble for poli-
tical power and narrow partisan spirit, and
should work together whole-heartedly for the
salvation of the nation.
"With firm belief in this and for the sole
purpose of carrying it out, the coalition
of the Seiyukai and the Minseito has been
effected. It shall be the common aim of
the two parties to work together to promote
the best interests of the nation by aiding
in the formulation of fitting national policies
and by striving to relieve the suffering of
the people and to solve other difficulties con-
fronting the country."
It will be observed that the Seiyukai-Minseito announce-
ment is general and vague in character and does not indi-
cate that the two parties have been able to decide to co-
operate on any concrete issues. The so-called coalition
would appear to have more the aspect of a temporary truce
during

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
during the special session of the Diet than that of
a definite coalition of interests. From the wording
of the above-quoted statement it would appear that one
of the implicit purposes behind the coalition is a de-
sire on the part of the two parties to curry favor with
the public and to increase the separate political prestige
of each party.
There has been no public indication that the Seiyu-
kai and the Minseito have come to a fundamental agreement
on policies. What: ver attitude the Seiyukai may reveal
during the present session of the Diet, it is known that
this party is strongly against the Okada Government. On
the other hand, the Minseito has supported the Government
since its inception and there is no reason to believe
that it will lessen this support simoly because of the
coalition, since the Minseito has everything to gain and
prectically nothing to lose in cooperating with the Govern-
ment. This party has a minority in the Lower House of the
Diet an cannot reasonably hope for the formation of a
Ministry of its leaders. The divergency in the views of
the two principal parties was set in relief by certain
statements that Dr. Suzuki, the leader of the Seiyukai,
and Mr. Machida, chairman of the boara of Minseito managers
and Minister of Commerce and Industry in the present Cabinet,
made in speeches delivered on November 19 to parliamentary
members of the parties. Dr. Suzuki vigorously assailed
the Government, stating that his party was not going to
tolerate "makeshift measures with which the Government is
trying

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
trying to patch matters"; that the Government should
establish a permanent policy for the relief of the rural
population and the evelopment of industries; that it was
the duty of the Seiyukai party to examine on behalf of
the nation the question as to whether the Government had
carried out any of its basic policies as announced at the
time of its organization. Mr. Machida, who became chair-
man of the board of managers of the Minseito after Baron
Wakatsuki's recent resignation from the Presidency of the
party, stated that the attitude of the Minseito had not
changed from what it was while Baron Wakatsuki was Presi-
dent. This statement alone inuicates continued support
of the Government, in sharp contrast to Dr. Suzuki's program
of opposition. The mere fact that Minseito leaders pressed
Mr. Machida, a Cabinet member, to accept the presidency
of the party and finally persuaded him to become chairman
of the board of managers, showed that there had been no
material change in the Minseito policy of upholding the
Government.
The remainder of Mr. Machida's speech contain-
ed no direct criticism of the Government.
While it is unlikely that the Seiyukai and the Minseito
will effectively coordinate their policies with regard to
national political issues, their rapprochement at this
time is a factor that might bring back the functioning of
normal constitutional Government through a more direct
and more effectual intervention by the parties in politi-
cal affairs. The joint announcement of the Seiyukai and
Minseito regarding the recently arrived at agreement
stated

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
stated that the politic I porties, "which are based
upon the popular will and exist to carry out parlia-
mentary Government", are under a. heavy responsibility
at this time. In the speeches above referred to, both
Dr. Suzuki and Mr. Machida expressed the idea that the
agreement reached between the two parties was designed
to promote the welfare of the nation through the pro-
per functioning of constitutional Government. Further-
more, Mr. Takahashi, who became Minister for Finance
on Novomber 27 after the resignation of Mr. Sadanobu
Fujii, is reported to have stated in a newspaper inter-
view that he would uphold the movement for the defense
of the constitutional system.
Mr. Takahashi, although an adherent of parliamentary
government, is alleged to have said that he would like
to see the Seiyukai take a nore serious attitude and look
into the future instead of thinking solely of thcmselves.
In the same newspaper interview the new Minister for Fi-
nance was reported to h ve stated that he had heard of
the Seiyukai's annoyance at his acceptance of a position
in the Okada Cabinet but that any suggestion that he re-
sign fron the Party voluntarily was entirely out of the
question. According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of November
29, when it had transpired that Mr. Takahashi had accept-
ed the post of Finance Minister, the directors of the Sei-
yukai began deliberations concerning his future connec-
tion with the party, some of them advocating that he be
asked to secede from the party and others insisting that
he be expelled.
This newspaper states that it finally
decided by a unanimous vote that Mr. Takahashi would be
asked to quit the Seiyukai party voluntarily. It will be
recalled

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
recalled th t Mess's Takejiro Tokonami, Shinya Uchida,
and Tatsunosuke Yamazaki were summarily expelled from
the Sei ukai when they accepted Cabinet portfolios in
the Okada Government in July, 1934. The reason that
Mr. Takahashi was not treated in this fashion was pro-
bably due to the fact that he was formerly President
of the Seiyukai and had alweys held an influential.
place in the Party.
The ASAHI of November 28 re ortec that Mr. Taka-
hashi had replied to the request of the Seiyukai leaders
for his resign tion that he saw no reason why he should
retire fro: the party. According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER
of November 29, RENGo issued the fo lowing translation
of the Seiyutai's st: tement concerning the Finance Minister:
"Things have come to such a pass as to
force us to part with Mr. Korekiyo Taka-
hashi, our former President. Great in-
deed is the service which Mr. Takahashi
has rendered in the promotion of consti-
tutional politics during his tenure as
one of the most important members of the
party. We regret that th cver-changing
situation in Japan has brought about his
parting with the Seiyukai.
"We part with Mr. Takahashi in accordance
with the basic doctrine of the Seiyukai."
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
800.Japan.
GDA:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 29 1934.
DEC 31 1934
Mr. Secretary:
Herewith an important despatch just
received from the Embassy in Tokyo, entitled
"Recent Political Tendencies in Japan". It
was prepared by Mr. Neville (Counselor of
Embassy).
I would suggest that your reading begin
with page 4. Mr. Neville emphasizes the
strength of nationalist sentiment in Japan.
He says that the fashion of nationalism is
one to which the Japanese "take kindly". The
Japanese "are persuaded that these are emer-
gency times"; "the country is on an emergency
footing . . ."; he suggests that it is unlikely
that this tenseness will continue indefinitely;
but, "either the present tension would ease,
or there would be a violent alteration in
the course of things -- a war, which seems
improbable at the moment . . . ." on this
point, I would comment that, while "improbable
at the moment", it is by no means impossible
that the momentum of the nationalist tide which
is running ever higher may carry Japan un-
expectedly and suddenly over the breakwater
of sound reasoning which stands in the way
of new manifestations of superpatriotism --
the surmounting or breaking down of which
would carry Japan into war)
TKH
SKH
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
: Tokyo, December 11, 1954.
538
No. 1079
0
Subject: Recent Political Tendencies in Japan.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
3  2 59
©CMUNICATIONS
DEC 29 1934
894.
N  DS
OO NS SA 0
Repartment of State
SECRETARY
SOUA15a
NOTED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 2 1935
DIVISION OF
WESTERN FUROPFAN AFFAIRS
Yea
No
For Di-tribtion-Check
Grade
In U.S. A
For
Um
AN 1 1935
The Hondrable
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
For some years Japanese industry has been developing
very rapidly. The most noticeable advance, so far as the
outside world is concerned, has been made in the textile
field. Japanese sotton goods and a variety of other
articles such as bicycles and cheap toys and notions are
erported in large quantities to many countries. At the
same time there has been an intense development in many
other lines which have not come prominently to outside
attention because they do not enter greatly into inter-
national trade.

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
These developments have coincided with an exceptionally
strong wave of nationalism. This tendency is world-wide,
and in following it Japan is merely in the fashion. It is,
however, a fashion to which the Japanese take kindly. All
through their history they have alternated between periods
when outside contacts were welcomed and periods when ef-
forts, more or less successful, were made to cut off out-
side contacts and develop internal economy without them.
These periods have usually coincided with periods of
activity among foreign nations with whom Japan was thrown
in contact. For example, Japan accepted Chinese civiliza-
tion and culture almost at a gulp during the T'ang era.
When the glories of this reign began to fade and the
Japanese felt that they had nothing more to learn from
China, intercourse was restricted. The Japanese set to
work to develop what they had obtained. During the Mongol
period (Yuan) in China, the Japanese were engaged in de-
fending themselves from invasion. During the Ming period,
intercourse with China was again renewed, which resulted
in inoreased industrial and cultural activity in spite of
the unsettled political conditions in Japan at this period.
About the middle of the 16th century Western civilization
began to exert an influence on the Japanese, stimulating
them to greater efforts. These activities culminated in
the invasion of Korea and the sending of a number of
missions of investigation, as we should call them today,
as far away as Europe. The decline of the Ming dynasty
in China, and the intense rivalries among European nations
coine1ded

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
coincided with the nationalism of the Tokugawa ere in
Japan when foreign intercourse was shut off for over two
hundred years. This seclusion was broken down from the
East, where the descendants of the Europeans had con-
quered the American continent and set sail from the
eastern shores of the Pacific to find the Far East once
more.
The nineteenth century was a period of great in-
tellectual, political and industrial activity in Europe
and America. It is noteworthy that it coincided with
great developments in Japan, who welcomed intercourse
with the West, and set herself to learn from Europe and
America, instead, as she had previously done, from China
and to a lesser extent from Korea.
The World War and its aftermath--intense national
hatreds, bankruptcy and political instability in the
West--together with great industrial development in Japan,
have combined to lead many elements in the country to
think that perhaps they have learned all that the West
has to teach them, and that it may be better to reduce
foreign contacts to a minimum and develop a Japanese
milieu more suited to their needs.
This point of view coincides with the world craze
for what is termed self-sufficiency, and has made the task
of the intense nationalists much easier. They point to
efforts made in many quarters to keep out Japanese imports
as evidence of the superiority of Japanese products and
assure their fellow countrymen that Japan has made sueh
progress that Western civilization has nothing further to
offor

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
offer and Japan has no longer any need for foreign teaching.
This nationalist urge manifests itself in many ways. It
is largely the basis of the Japanese demand for naval
parity; it runs through the Japanese insistence upon Japan's
superior or special position in China: China was once
Japan's teacher and must be made to realize that Japan has
thrown off all leading strings and is equal to any one,
East or West. The East, with Japan as leader, will set up
a balanced economy to offset Western aggression.
As would be expected, the nationalist or exclusivist
tendency is more noticeable in Army and Navy circles than
elsewhere, although it would be a mistake to assume that
the armed services are exclusively nationalist or that
the civilian population is free from the tendency.
The
Army and the Navy however are pretty thoroughly imbued
with it. Their influence in this direction is manifested
in many ways, especially in the industrial field.
One
example will illustrate the (to us) absurd length to which
it is pushed. Some months ago General Motors, who have
an assembly plant in Osaka, decided that they would en-
large their establishment, as they have reached the limit
of production with their present equipment. With the idea
of inviting Japanese participation, they offered to sell
stock in the Japan company to one Aikawa, Managing Director
of the Kuhara interests. The arrangement has been held
in abeyance, however, because the company has been unable
to obtain permission to purchase New York exchange for the
amount they are to be paid. The Department of Commerce
and Industry has been unwilling to issue a certificate
that the transaction was non-speculative, due, it is stated,
to Army opposition. The Army is promoting the manufacture
of a Japanese-made automobile, and desires Kuhara cooperation

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
in this direction rather than their association with a
foreign concern. Similar instances of opposition to the
growth of foreign interests have been frequent of late.
Many Japanese who are in sympathy with this movement
realize that the Japanese. product will not be as effective,
but they are persuaded that these are emergency times,
that the country is in danger and that a Japanese produet
will serve their turn for the moment. Others again resent
what they term exploitation of Japan for the benefit of
the foreigner and would honestly prefer no export trade
in this type of article to having industry in Japan in
any degree subject to foreign control. These forces are
now operating in feverish haste to produce in Japan every-
thing which the military decides are key industries or
articles "necessary to the national defence". The country
is on an emergency footing, and the determined effort to
be "self-sufficient" is absorbing a large part of its
energies.
This state of mind is being made use of, naturally,
by many industrialists who see in it an opportunity for
themselves. It seems probable that some of the present
oil difficulties, for example, are in a measure due to the
influence of a few men in the oil refining business who
believed there was an opportunity to get rid of foreign
competition in the sale of refined petroleum. It is
significant that the President of the Japan Oil Company
is a member of the House of Peers, as well as President of
the new "Manchukuo" Oil Company.
There are, of course, men of vision in Japan who are
aware of these considerations. They realize that Japan is,
and

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
and in the nature of things must continue to be, de-
pendent on the outside world for many things, especially
raw materials, necessary to the country's industrial life.
They understand that technical assistance and international
cooperation are needed if Japan is to continue on the path
of industrial progress. They are, however, helpless in
the face of what amounts almost to national hysteria. For
the moment they feel unable to make long range plans for
industrial development which involve extensive cooperation
with foreign interests. They believe that public opinion
would not countenance it, and what is more, they might have
difficulty in negotiating much profitable business with the
Goernment.
It seems unlikely·that this situation will continue
indefinitely. If it continues Japan will find herself
more and more falling behind the West as contacts are
reduced. In the past few months a number of new projects
have been broached by representatives of foreign concerns
which have interests here. They are anxious to enlarge
their interests, to introduce new methods and bring their
equipment up to date (the case of General Motors, cited
above, is one example). Their Japanese associates realize
the need for it, but are unable to give clear cut replies
or to take on new responsibilities. They are becoming
uneasy and in some cases interested Americans have come
to the Embassy for advice. They have been told that they
would have to be patient and await developments; either
the present tension would ease, or there would be a
violent alteration in the course of things--a war, which
seems improbable at the moment, or some political over-
tun

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
turn which it is impossible to foresee. It seems out of
the question to look forward at this time to a return to
the seclusion which Japan practiced at an earlier period.
None the less, a determined drive is on at the moment to
regain, so far as may be, the independence of foreign
influence which the nationalists feel has been lost, to
the Empire's great shame.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800
ELN:m

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 22, 1935.
EHD
MMA:
Berlin's despatch No. 16ll of
December 23, 1934.
This despatch transmits excerpts from
an interview with the Japanese ar Minister,
mainly in regard to the War Office memoran-
dum advocating regimentation of the nation,
which caused a great sensation last
Autumn.
General Hayashi stated: "The aim ...
of our memorandum which so needlessly alarm-
ed the press of the entire world, lies not
in releasing any sudden action.... We
wish to educate the entire nation for the
tasks which result from our present
position as a world power .... Always with
a view to the possibility of a war, we must
establish an inseparable unity of the
state; we must draw together the entire
nation.... In the social sphere there is
much with us that needs reforming. But we
are by no means thinking of any sudden
overthrow of the social order existing
today".
WTT
WTT/DLY
894.00/539

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Berlin, December 23,1934.
No. 1611
Subject:
InterVieW Of VOELKISCIER BEOBACHTER
ENT OF STATE
with Japanese Var Miniater.
Ji
PM RECO
Division of
JAN 11 35
WIT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 12 1935
Desartment of State
894.00/539
V
MID
794.2
CNI
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I. D
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
JAN 2 6 1935
FILED
F/FG
Sir:
As of possible interest, I have the honor
1/
to enclose translated excerpts of an interview
with the Japanese War Minister, General Hayashi,
published in the Nazi organ, VOELKISCHER BEOBACH-
TER of December 4.
The

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
The remarks of the General in lavor of na-
tional regimentation in preparation for a war,
which he evidently considers inevitable, is just
the kind of moral that the Nazis want.drawn.
Respectfully yours,
C. While.
5. c. white,
Chargéa Affaires ad interim.
Enclosure:
Translated excerpts from
the VÖLKISCHER BEOBACHTER
of December 4,1934.
800
JCW:EM

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure
Translated Excerpts
from
VÖLKISCHER BOBACHTER (December 4,1934.)
Interview of the of the V.B. with War Minister Hayashi.
Plan for the obilization of the Japanese Nation.
Tokyo, end of November.
I have already frequently had business to
transact at the Japanese War Ministry.
It is next
door to the German Embassy, between the green island
of the Imperiul Palace und the still unfinished
block of the new parliament building.........As of
symbolical significance, in the center between the
Imperial Palace und the parliament lies the building
of the War inistry.
From its gable the old n lo-leafed chrysanthe-
mum gleams brigitly, as a sign that the Japanese
Army is subject only to the orders of the Emperor...
...After speaking of the great interest which the
recent memorandum of the Japanese War Ministry was
to me, as representative of the leading paper in
National Socialist Germany, in that the ....program
showed many parallels with the German National So-
cialist....."Weltanschauung," General Hayashi sta-
ted: "............The aim and purpose of our memoran-
dum, which so needlessly alarmed the press of the
entire

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
entire world, lies not at all in releasing any
sudden action either in the domestic or foreign
political field.
We are not dreaming of such a
thing."
Question: Why did the War Ministry choose just
the present time for the publication?
Answer:
There is no particular reason. With
its publication e wish to educate the entire na-
tion for the great tusks which result from our
prese
osition as a world power.
The people
of Japan s a whole is not yet conscious of its newly
arisen tusks and responsibilities.
It is our duty
to biing these points of view clearly to its con-
sciousness..........Our people does not know what
a war fought with measures of the modern technique
mens.
We are neither prepared nor trained (drilled).
for a cuse of war.
Always with a view to the possi-
bility of a war, we must establish an unseperable
unity of the state, e must draw together the entire
nation.
Only prepared in this way can we advance
towards the future great tasks and trials.
In the first place, we must awaken the ethical
forces of the nation. We must unite all forces of
the state in the tought of defence of the country
and must subjugate them to this high task.
.......The European nations have already experienced
modern technical warfare.
We shall and must learn
from

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
from their experiences.
To arrange all forces of
the state to (serve) our reat national problems, to
make all departments of the state administration serve
these views, to carry in all the strata of the popula-
tion the consciousness of the new and heavy important
responsibilities resting upon Japan, and to awaken
the ethical realization of duty, that is the meaning
of our publication (Veröffentlichung).
Question: The memorandum speaks of necessary
changes in the social structure of Japan.
hat kind
of changes are these?
Answer:
In the social sphere here is much with
us th t needs reforming.
But we ara by no means
thinking of any sudden overthrow of the social order
existing to-day.
Step by step we will overcome existing
defects vhich disturb the close unity of the nation.....
..If our national honor is at stake, if
an enemy threatens us from without, then our nation
always stands united.
The Japunese people has
proved this again at the time of the Manchurian dis-
turbance.
The national spirit shown at that time was
a good beginning.
But it does not nearly suffice
for the great tasks which we shall have to face.
For instance, the great mass of our people does
not yet realize how tremendously our strategio line
of defence on the Asiatic Continent has increased
since

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
since the forming of Manchukuo.
Out of the rela-
tively short Munchurian-Korean frontier line the
gigantic curve has formed which embraces the bor-
ders of the new state Manchukuo.
The strategical
defence line of Japan has increased at least ten-
fold.
For we have obligated ourselves by treaty
to guarantee the defence of the borders of Manchukuo.
Vith this we have assumed a new, immense responsibil-
ity, the significance of which is by no means yet
clear to our people.
To further questions General Hayashi replied:
"We, the Army, have never forced ourselves into a
leading position.
In lManchukuo, for example, it
was the circumstances which forced us to take over the
leadership.
No one knows Manchukuo better than does
the Japanese Army.
Therefore no one is better pre-
pared than we are to take over the leadership in Man-
chukuo."
Asked as to Japanese air forces, the General
said: Japan has not such
completely developed nor
so numerous air traffic lines as have other countries.
It is absolutely necessary that we fill out these
missing gaps..........Our people is beginning to real-
ize the urgent necessity of air protection. The con-
viotion of the great effectiveness of the aerial
force as a means of war is gaining ground.
Asked

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
Asked for his opinion regarding the desirabil-
ity of lon military service, the General replied:
..Compared with other systems, I
personally consider that a general military service
covering a period of 17 years, which we are going to
introduce in Japan, is by far the best."
Asked for his direct opinion regarding Nation-
al Socialist Germany, General Hayashi stated: "....
..According to everything that I hear
coming out of Germany at present, I feel that pro-
gress, worthy of admiration, must have been made
in the unity of the people, in its deeds and in na-
tional mindedness."
G7 EI

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.99)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
500.A 15 a 5/372
#1102
FOR
SEE
Japan
Grew
) DATED Dec.27.,1934.
FROM
NAME
1-1127
TO
REGARDING:
Plots to set up dietatorships: Numerous -, is symptomatic of the
state of the political turmoil in the country.
54
bo
0

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.98)
5-1
MAR 13 19
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 26, 1935.
Nr.Phillips:
Mr. Secretary:
Mr. Grew has recently submitted a
series of despatches which "have dis-
cussed the present-day chauvinism in
Japan, have outlined the situation
arising out of the naval problem, and
have considered American prestige in
relation to our interests in the Far
East". In those despatches the con-
clusion was drawn that there is in Japan
a definite urge toward economic and
political expansion in Asia.
In one of those despatches, Mr. Grew
urged that the United States "be ad-
equately prepared to meet all eventualities
in the Far East". In a further despatch
(attached) Mr. Grew discusses certain
social and economic forces and conditions
which apply to the Japanese and give
rise to the urge toward economic and
political expansion. He points out that
there are two sides to every problem,
and he proceeds to explain the processes
by which the Japanese feel justified
in carrying forward their program of
expansion.
Tb

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
The despatch is exceedingly well pre-
pared and carefully thought out. On page 3,
Mr. Grew suggests the wisdom, after giving
weight to certain factors which he explains,
of basing American policy toward Japan on
two concurrent principles:
(1) National preparedness for
the purpose of protecting legitimate
American interests in the Far East,
and
(2) "A sympathetic. cooperative
and helpful attitude toward Japan,
based on larger considerations reach-
ing into the future".
The foregoing thought is amplified in the
concluding portions of his despatch,
beginning on page 16.
The Far Eastern Divis ion has been
giving thought to the possibility of
formulating suggestions in line with the
conclusions reached by Mr. Grew, particu-
larly in connection with trade problems.
There are, generally speaking, only two
ways by which the problem of over-popu-
lation can be solved: by territorial
expansion

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
expansion and by industrial expansion.
Whether the situation created by the re-
sort of Japan to force in settlement of
its controversies with China can ever
be adjusted to the satisfaction of all
concerned is a matter that is open to
considerable doubt, but it would seem
reasonable to suppose that action taken
with a view to the restriction of Japan's
foreign trade tends to increase the
difficulty of finding a satisfactory ad-
justment of the situation, if not to
aggravate the risks of further action by
Japan in the direction of political and
territorial expansion at the expense of
its Asiatic neighbors.
It is suggested that you read the
digest that has been prepared of the
despatch and the concluding portion of
the despatch, beginning on page 16.
It is suggested that a copy of the
despatch be sent to the Fresident.
FE:EHD/DLY
m.N
894.007541

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.96)
5-1
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 6, 1935.
No. 1156.
Subject: Urge toward Expansion in Japan.
RECEIVED
FED 23 1035
DIVIDION OF
894.00/541
894.00
135
on
Derartmont ct State
of 5-20-64 from Donald 1. Simon, State Degt.
By iDowly 7:n 5 Date 8/17/67
Confidontial.
For Distribuion-Check
Yes
No
Grade
1or
For
In U.S. A.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
S i r :
Recent despatches from this Embassy, notably numbers
538
711.94/1002
854.00
1079, 1102, ana 1116, have discussed the present-day chauvin-
500A15a5/372
ism in Japan, have outlined the situation arising out lof the
naval problem, and have considered American prestige in re-
F/FG:
lation to our interests in the Far East.
The general conclusion drawn is that there exists in
Japan today a definite urge toward economic and political
expansion in East Asia and, as a corollary, a growing pressure
against the interests of western nations, including the
interest

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.99)
5-2
- 2 -
interests of the United States, in this part of the wori
These despatches, logically, have examined the situation
and the future outlook chiefly from the objective or foreign
point of view rather than through the eyes of the Japanese
themselves. But as there are two sides to every problem,
it will perhaps help to focus the picture and to give a
proper balance to our judgment if we try for a moment to put
ourselves in their place and to visualize the outlook as they
the Japanese, see it.
Psychologically, the Japanese resent being considered
on a different footing from other nations. They believe
they occupy a position which entitles them to the same
consideration in the Far East that the British and French
claim in the affairs of Europe or even the United States
in the Western Hemisphere, and they intend to assert and
maintain this position with all the strength at their command.
In addition, or perhaps at the back of this attitude,
is the expansionist urge due to the economic problem involved
in the struggle for existence, the normal tendency and
striving to achieve a higher standard of living and the
acute competition inevitably arising therefrom. To a cer-
tain extent the Japanese are a revolutionary force in the
Far East.
They feel that the Western Powers have exploited
China with little benefit to the Chinese; that there must
be an end to this activity and that Japan is called to act.
Besides, the Japanese believe that it will be profitable
With a larger sphere of activity Japanese industry and
commerce will expand further and remove thespectre of
restricted

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.99)
53
- 3 -
restricted markets from their eyes. If this has
to be done at others' expense it cannot be helped. There
is in the Japanese attitude something of the "manifest
destiny" idea, or the point of view expressed by Kipling in
his poems of the British Empire.
It therefore behooves us to examine this expansionist
urge in Japan as the reasonable and logical operation of well-
nigh irrepressible forces based on the underlying principle
of self preservation. We are apt to stress the military
aspects of Japanese activity without carefully considering
the driving impulse of the whole nation. If, from an
examination of concrete evidence, we become convinced that
Japan is faced with a national problem of the utmost gravity
brought about primarily by natural developments, and that
military covetousness is only one phase or expression of it,
and if we furthermore become convinced that failing certain
outlets which will act as safety valves, some sort of ex-
losion or series of explosions along the lines of the Man-
churian affair must inevitably occur, we may pause to con-
sider the wisdom of basing our own policy toward Japan on
two concurrent principles: (1) national preparedness
for the purpose of protecting our legitimate interests in
the Far East, and at the same time (2) a sympathetic, co-
operative and helpful attitude toward Japan, based on larger
considerations reaching into the future.
Four distinct factors in this connection should be given
consideration:
(1)

=== Page 623 === (confidence 1.00)
5-4
-4-
(1) Overpopulation
(2)
Lack of natural resources.
(3)
Industrialization.
(4)
The rising standard of living.
We may consider these economic factors seriatim before
drawing conclusions:
Overpopulation.
According to the last official census of Japan Proper,
taken in 1930, the population at that time was 64,450,005,
an increase of 4,713,183 over the population at the time of
the previous census (1925). The increase was therefore at the
average rate of 942,636 or about 1.5 per cent per annum. The
rate of increase does not show a decelerating tendency; in
fact it has risen steadily from around .5 per cent per annum
in the decade 1870-1880, to its present 1.5 per cent. The
birthrate in Japan Proper in 1930 was 32.4 per thousand of the
population, as compared with 18.1 in France, 17.5 in Germany
and 16.8 in Great Britain. The density of population in Japan
Proper in 1925 was 404 per square mile; by 1930 it had risen
to 437 per square mile. This does not seem to be an excessive
density when compared vith the 678 per square mile in Belgium,
561 in Holland and 468 in the United Kingdom, but it should
be remembered that whereas the land in Belgium, Holland and
the United Kingdom is practically all arable or at least fit
for human occupation, only about fifteen per cent of the area
of

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.99)
5-5
-5 -
of Japan Proper is arable and little of the remainder 1s it
for anything but forests. The Japanese density of population
can be better understood when compared with that of countries
or States of the United States with somewhat similar moun-
tainous characteristics. Thus Switzerland has a density of
population of 251 per square mile, Norway 21, Sweden 35,
California 22, Oregon 8, Washington 20 and Vermont 38.
There is no indication at present that the Japanese will
be willing to accept birth control as a remedy for their ex-
cessive rate of population increase. At the same time, being
an ambitious, active and progressive people, they are not
willing to accept the lower standard of living which would
normally accompany an increase in population without a
corresponding increase in resources. A pressing need there-
fore exists to find work and livings - economic opportunity -
for nearly a million persons each year. During the next
generation, even if the population could be caused to stop
increasing now, additional livings must be found for some
twenty millions already born and now growing up. This is the
basie urge behind the expansionist activities of the Japa-
nese people, as it is an urge which cannot be satisfied by
emigration (the emigration of Japanese labor is meeting
obstacles throughout the world), nor by further development
of the natural resources of Japan (a subject which 1s dis-
cussed in the following section), nor by colonization, as
colonization in the surrounding territories in the Far East
has been defeated by the lower standards of living of the
peoples of those territories. Industrialization of the
country has partly supplied the need for economic oppor-
tunity, but industrialization presupposes the existence of
definite

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.98)
5-6
- 6 -
definite markets and thereby leads to territorial ex-
pansion in one form or another, as is described in a later
section of this despatch.
Natural resources of Japan.
The assertion is often made that Japan is poor in
natural resources. This assertion is subject to many
qualifications. The country has not sufficient resources
of its own to provide over an extended period for an ex-
panding population with a rising standard of living and a
determination to play an ever increasing part in world
economic development. It has, however, resources of no mean
importance, which can take care of most of the immediate
needs of the people and which form a reservoir of strength
that is frequently not appreciated by outside observers.
The nation must reach out into the world for many raw
materials to feed its expanding industry, and to provide
opportunity for development to a restless and ambitious
population; it must go into the outside world to find markets
for the sale of many of its products if it is to continue
its progress, but it is a mistake to regard Japan as weak
and without native resources of value.
At the moment, Japan is able to feed itself, so long
as the people are willing to keep their diet within the
traditional simple fare of their ancestors: rice and barley,
fish, vegetables and a relish, with tea and perhaps sake to
complete the meal. This has been accomplished by increasing
the productiveness of farms through better fertilizing and
more

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.99)
37
- 7-
more effective irrigation methods. This increase cannot,
of course, continue indefinitely, as marginal lands are
already being used, but for the time being, Japan is not
in need of imports to feed the population of the country.
One agricultural commodity, raw silk, is exported
in large quantities. Its production is a subsidiary
occupation of approximately two million farming families,
and its reeling gives occupation to several hundred thousand
people during the reeling season. This rural industry is the
farmer's cash crop over a lerge part of central Japan.
Animal husbandry is making headway, especially in
Hokkaido, and domestic made dairy products are more and
more available in the markets. This branch of agricul-
ture is developing slowly, as the area available for
suitable pasturage is limited, due to the poor quality
of the grass. The soil of Japan is largely friable and
acid in character, making poor pasture grass.
Fruit in many varieties is available at moderate
prices. Oranges are plentiful enough to be exported.
While restricted, from the American point of view,
Japanese agriculture is in most respects in a healthy
condition, is able to feed the country, and is branching
out into new fields. This is contrary to much that has been
stated in regard to Japanese agriculture, but it seems to
be the fact. Certain phases of Japanese rural life will
be discussed later.
About one half of the area of Japan is classed as
forest. Much of the forest is in mountainous regions so
remote from population centers that builders find it cheaper,
under

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.98)
38
- 8-
under normal commercial conditions, to import pine and
cedar for building purposes. The imports of timber during
the past few years have varied from about two thirds to
nine tenths of the domestic production. There is also
some export of timber, amounting on the average to perhaps
one seventh of the domestic production. It seems probable
that Japan could, in case of necessity, house its popu-
lation and provide such wooden utensils as are needed
from its own production. Forestry is well developed.
A good deal of pulp is imported for paper and rayon making,
but the domestic paper pulp production usually far exceeds
the amount imported.
Japan is poor in mineral resources. There is enough
coal produced for domestic consumption. Other minerals
are not available in any quantity, aside from copper, of
which there are some relatively large deposits.
There is abundant water power in Japan, although the
irregularity in the flow of streams, and the porous nature
of much of the rock formation in the country have impeded its
development to some extent. However, Japan can keep
its fatories operating, so far as motive power is con-
cerned, from its own resources, taking both coal and water
power into account.
Japan, however, has none orefYttle of the other products
which enter into international commerce today. It is a
country of relatively limited natural resources which are
being utilized very nearly to the full. It must import
raw materials for textiles other than silk and the bulk
of the raw materials which enter into general manufacture
on

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.98)
5-9
- 9 -
on a large scale. It is driven by its growing needs int
the field of international trade on a larger and larger
scale.
Industrialization.
Japan has only recently demonstrated in a manner
to bring consternation to Western industrialists its
ability to compete successfully with the most advanced
nations in all lines of economic endeavor, but as a matter
of fact the process of preparation for greater economic
power has been under way in Japan for many years. The
far-sighted statesmen of the Meiji Era realized that,
if Japan hoped to become a world power, the country
must develop its industrial and commercial resources - must
sell its labor to pay for needed materials and must be able
to manufacture within the country equipment and supplies
for military use. Industrialization was first attempted
along lines deemed necessary by the military, but it
gradually passed beyond this stage and became a permanent
and important factor in the life of the nation. The people
proved themselves to have great organizing capacity, un-
usual manual dexterity and sufficient nechanical ability
to operate industrial machinery. The World War, due to
the concentration of the industrial nations of the West on
supplying the vast armies engaged in the war, gave Japa-
nese industries a tremendous impetus, and Japanese goods
produced by mass-production methods began to appear in
great quantities in the world's markets. Since December, 19z1
to

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.99)
510
-10-
to the natural Japanese economic advantages of excollent
organizing capacity, cheap, dextrous labor, and geogra-
phical proximity to large markets, has been added the
advantage of depreciated currency, with the result that
Japanese goods are offered at prices which have demoralized
the world's markets and have brought panic to the in-
dustrialists of the West. At the same time Japanese ships
are capturing a considerable share of the carrying trade of
the world and Japanese capital is reaching out, particu-
larly in the Far East, for new opportunities.
The Japanese feel that their tremendous progress in
manufacturing goods for export is not due to a series of
fortuitous circumstances but to hard work, technical pro-
gress and intelligent planning, and therefore they are in-
clined to resent the obstacles which are arising throughout
the world to their commerce. They are proud of their ability
to manufacture good merchandise at low prices. They ascribe,
as the principal reasons for their success in meeting the
industrial competition of the world, their low labor costs,
their technical skill, their low capital charges, their
efficient management, their depreciated yen, and, above all,
their determination and enthusiasm.
The low Japanese labor costs, they point out, do not
constitute a new phenomenon. Low labor cost is a continuing
factor, due to the cheaper - not lower - methods of living
of the Japanese people, to their patience and to their manual
skill. Even therefore, before and after the depreciation of
the yen, their labor costs were and will be much below those
of Western countries. The Japanese are proud of their
techincal progress. They point with pride to the immense
efficiency

=== Page 630 === (confidence 1.00)
511
-11-
efficiency oftheir spinning and weaving mills, their
rayon factories, their steamship lines, their electrical
plants and their railways. They feel that their progress in
technical ability is well-earned and should not be resented
by other industrial nations.
Likewise they attribute their low capital and other
overhead charges to intelligent planning and efficient
management. But they also attribute much of their success
to the national determination and enthusiasm. From the
highest to the lowest, the people are united in an almost
fanatical zeal for the promotion of their nation's power in
the world, commercial as well as military and political.
It is impo: sible to say how much this factor contributes to
the production efficiency of the Japanese people, but it
undoubtedly is an important factor.
Thus the Japanese view their industrial and commercial
success as something which they have earned through their own
hard work, intelligence and national determination. It would
be difficult to deny the truth of this thesis, although the
Japanese perhaps do not give sufficient credit to the adven-
titious aid of their depreciated yen exchange and rarely, if
ever, mention another very important factor, namely, the
docility and compliance with regimentation of their labor
supply.
Industrialization, however, cannot be economically
successful unless adequate markets for the products of in-
dustrialization are available. And the Japanese industrialists
are finding their expansion meeting with opposition in many
countries

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.98)
5-/2
-12-
countries, especially in regions such as British India and
the Netherlands Indies, which have been considered in the
past by Western industrial nations as constituting more or
less exclusive markets for their own products. In addition
to definite barriers to further expansion of their over-
seas trade, the Japanese see vast economic blocs being formed,
such as those of the British Commonwealth of Nations, France
and its colonies, the Netherlands and its colonies, and the
United States and its insular possessions. To the extent
that such blocs are successful in giving preference to trade
within the group forming the bloc, Japan's opportunities
for trade expansion are reduced.
Faced with these barriers and restrictions upon their
further economic expansion, the Japanese feel that the world
frowns upon their hard-won success in industrialization and
commercial development, just as the world has in the past
frowned upon their territorial expansion and upon their
attempts to relieve the pressure at home by emigration to
other lands. At the same time, because of their rapidly
increasing population and the dearth of their natural resources,
they feel that economic expansion is of vastly greater importance
to them than to other n: tions, such as the United States,
which have lower natural rates of population increase and
much greater natural resources upon which to rely.
Higher Living Standards.
A decided factor in the life of Japan today is the
rising standard of living. This factor is difficult to
define accurately. It is however an active force which
affeot

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.99)
313
- 13 -
affects all phases of life in the country and goes hand
in hand with a higher moral tone in Japanese society.
This moral development has accompanied the economic develop
ment elsewhere noted in this report. Statistical data on
living standards are not readily available, but it may
safely be said that the average Japanese family lives bettor
today than ever before. There is a greater variety of
food, a wider choice of clothing and in the larger cities,
much better housing than was the case a generation ago.
One indication of higher living standards is education.
According to the Japan Year Book, school attendance, in-
cluding attendance at higher institutions of learning,
increased from 10,435,364 in 1920-21 to 12,571,748 in
1930-31, the latest year for which full statistics are
available. This is about what would be expected, as the
population, according to the same authority, increased from
55,963,053 in 1920 to 64,450,005 in 1930. However, the
attendance at Universities increased frem 21,915 in 1920-21
to 89,607 in 1930-31. The last figure is somewhat mis-
leding, as a number of schools were raised to University
grade in the meantime; but after making all allowances,
there has been a tremendous growth in the number of young
persons seeking higher education. The higher technical
schools also show a phenomenal growth, although the figures
are not so startling as those of the Universities. This
indicates that the nation is able to support a higher
educational standard and that more families are in a
position to give a broader education to their children.
The higher standard of life, both moral and material,
requires a higher income for its support.
Another

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.97)
514
- 14 -
Another illustration is to be found in the attention no
paid to the peasantry. Much has been written lately of the
hard lot of the rural classes in Japan. Their lot is hard,
but it is only recently that it has become an object of in-
terest or concern to the country at large. The northern
districts of Honshu, the Main Island of Japan, for example,
are mountainous and unfertile. The rural inhabitants of
this region have always been close to the margin of subsis-
tence. Unfavorable crops have meant privation for the ma-
jority and starvation for many. Their moral standards have been
on a level with their living conditions. While it would not be
correct to say that families have counted on the sale of their
daughters for income, it is none the less true that the amuse-
ment centers of Tokyo and other large cities have been largely
recruited from young girls from the Northern prefectures. The
extreme poverty and distress which has faced them made girls
willing to accept any opportunity to escape from home, while
their parents were willing to part with them when it meant
money in the home. Many a well known drama and story in Japan
is woven around conditions such as this. In the autumn and
winter of 1905-1906 there was a famine of considerable pro
portions in this region. The newspaper accounts of the time
いas?
indicate that it was severe. There is evident, however, none
of the moral indignation that accompanies the accounts of the
distress now raging in the same region. The Government has
taken measures to feed the population and to prevent the traffic
in girls, a condition which aroused little or no comment a
few years ago.
The public concern over rural conditions seems to indicate

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.98)
5=/5
-15 -
a higher moral standard on the part of the public. It Bems
improbable that rural distress in Japan is greater now than
it was a generation ago. The explanation appears to be that
improved conditions throughout the country have raised the
public tone, so that a situation which was received with in-
difference by a former generation, now arouses the moral
sense of the nation.
This rural distress has been to a very great extent
the backbone of cheap industrial labor in Japan . Grinding
poverty has driven young peonle to the cities. Girls could
be obtained to worl: in mi ls and factories and boys eould be
recruited as day laborers for what appears to us to be a
pittance. Ordinary li bor can be obtained for from 45 to
50 cents a day, and skilled workmen in the textile trades
for less than one dollar a day, plus c rtain bonuses which
may amount to 25 per cent in s me cases. These are un-
doubtedly very low wages. They represent, however, the
diference between actual starvation at home, and the com-
parative comfort of a barrack-like boar ing house in a city.
Thevworkers are really better off than they would be on the
barren hillsides where they were born. They have a stan-
dard of living which is remarkably cheap, and while re-
stricted from our point of view, it is affluence compared
to the penury vhichdrives them from the country. The
abundance of this type of labor - hardy, used to cheap living
and discipline - has enabled Japan to build up its present
industrial plant, and to invade world markets with its
products.
Industrialization has enabled the Japanese people to
raise

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.99)
516
-16-
raise their living standards. It is true that Western stn
dards have risen at the same time, and that present living
conditions in Japan are considerably below those in Europ
or America. Still, viewed from the Japanese standpoint,
there has been a decided improvement in the life of the
people in the past generation, an improvement which is
still continuing, which the Japanese are determined shall
not stop, and which is an inportant element in their drive
for forein trade.
Conclusion.
The above resumé attempts to visualize the situation
in Japan as the Japanese themselves see it. The Japanese
see themselves as an overpopulated nation, but as a nation
of active, intelligent and progressive people, anxious to
find a "place in the sun", and to raise their standard of
iving. At the same time they see themselves as badly
handicapped by limited workable natural resources and by a
lac of economic op ortunity within the territories which
they control. They have tried emigration and colonization,
but without any considerable success. They also tried in-
dustrialization, and have been successful through a combina-
tion of patient,hard work, intelligent planning and fortunate
circumstances, only to find the world gradually closing its
markets to their products.
It cannot be doubted that these ingredients form a
highly ex losive mixture, and,also, that the nations of the
world owe it to themselves and to Japan to endeavor to
formulate policies which will prevent the mixture from ex-
ploding. It is possible that the solution of the problem

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.98)
517
-17-
• can be found in the Christmas message of the Secretary of Stat
"Peace can be obtained by bringing contentment
to the peoples of the world. They can be made
content by assuring the satisfaction of their needs,
removing from them the oppressive fear of hunger and
privation . . . . .If we have the wisdom and imagination
to do this we shall then satisfy the age-old longing
for plenty and bring into being its corollary, peace."
The satisfaction of Japanese needs will require, primarily,
more economic elbow-room for the nation. Manchuria will
probably supply the needed opportunities for some fifteen or
twenty years, but after that time it will certainly be necessary
for them to extend their economic "life line". They can, as
in the past, do this by means of military force, but further
Japanese military adventures in th ar East would very probably
result in a tremendous clash with tne Western powers, in which,
presumably, Japan would be crushed. It is not likely, however,
that such a vigorous nation as Japan would remain crushed for
more than one or two generations, after which the process would
have to be repeated. The problem confronting Western nations,
therefore, when reduced to its simplest terms, would appear
to be whether to endeavor to preserve Western interests in
the Far East for a generation or two by defeating Japan in
a war, or whether to endeavor to satisfy Japan's urge for
economic expansion by granting larger markets and greater op-
portunity for Japanese enterprise in the territories con-
trolled by the Western nations. The second alternative, of
course, would be accompanied by steady pressure to preserve
our policies relating to the Far East and to demilitarize the
Japanese nation.
It will not be an easy task for the world to find economic
elbow-room for a population increasing as rapidly as that of Japan,
but

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.95)
5-18
-18-
but on the other hand it cannot be expected that the urge
for economic expansion in Japan will continue to be.so
strong in the future as it is at present. A rising standard
of living will tend to check the birth rate and will diminish
Japan's powers of economic ccmpetition, with the result
that Japan's position in the economic world will eventually
tend to become stabilized, or to approximate Western standards.
Respectfully yours,
S
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
JCG/ELN/ERD/JGP :r
4
FP

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.88)
5-19
Digest.
Math, 205
There beins two aldes to ovary preblem, m
appreciation of the factors hich oreate and st
amone the Japanose an urgo for expansion tends te
a propar bal: nco to ir jucrmont". o ahould
thie expans: onict urge in Japan as the reasompble 
leg oal operction of wo -nigh rrepreselble fro
baso on te uncorlying ine lo of self-precerveters
after an examin tion of these forcee the coneb
1s reached thint cisturbancon of th.o paace along the
lines of the  :no-Japanese controvorsy mnt inovitabl
corr, "we may peuan to consleer the wisdom ar beming
our own  lioy towar: Japan on two conourrent primoiptom
( nrt cal o crodnose for the purpose or proteot
our leg't mte intoreste in io a cst, and at th
time (2) a yapathetio, cooporative and help 
towar! Junan, based on largar ocnsidorations peeeh
Into tho Titure".
Tho four prinolpal faotore are:
1. ver-popalation.
2. lnex of natural reeemrees.
3. Induatrialimation.
4. The rising standard ef livitge

=== Page 639 === (confidence 0.85)
520
一 8 
popoletion.
 rate of 42,, bout 1.5 por 
anmm, while the birth rate in laso was 3e.4 por apese
of the popalation, as comraren with 18.i 1n Premse 19.5
In y  10.   . h  of
populrt lon, whan the olatively all propotim
lard thet ls fit for oultivation is taken into consideram
tio:, doos not parmit of a satlafactory abeorption of the
anmual inorcaso of nearly one mllliem in the populatidm
and tins creates an ur e for expanslon whiah cammot be
accomplished by emipretion, "nor by further development
of the nutural rosouroos of Japen, nor by eolonization".
TThe problom of over-population has been partly met by
Inoroased intustrialization, "but industrializetien
presupposes the existence of definite markete and theeety
Leads to territorlal expansion im ome fort er amethee
Haturel Reepurose
The rteulturel reeeurees  Japen are sussi
uncer existimr eondit!oms, to supply the requsremente dt
the dapabese, whose tastem in rhard to foed are sipa

=== Page 640 === (confidence 0.89)
5-2.1
=  -
1t is depondent upon othor countries for suah nommsisi
 oil, raw colton an wool.
Industrialisation.
Japanesn voods produooc by mass-produotion met
began to a mear in grect quantitsos in the world's mrts
Curin ti orld ar, une in tlo last few yoare the
Ja: unoso Iuvo taken ucvantage of their capaoity for
crranlzation,  eir chean and dartrous labor, and their
reo, rapt icn? rox!nity to lerge markete, to develop thetr
oxport troe, n by doproo at ne 1: oir curreney they
have  rrore tle!" roode "at prices whlab lave domoralised
tho world's merkats at lave brought panic to the
induntrialicts of thio cst lile the Japonese ettribute
t'oir low capital and other overheed charges to intellignt
plannins and efriciant managemant, they attribute their
succoss to the national determinatiom and mtmsiseme
"Irom the highest to the lowest, the people are mited im
an almost fanatioal seal for the premotiom of thair
nation's ower in the world, commercial  ll 
r'iitary and clitlcal. The astione ef various odatrles
in restr:ct ing iports of Japaneee ommoditsem bes m
the Japanese to feel "that the world frows wem thete
hard-ran success in industrialisation end eampmreial
development, just as ti.o world has in the pest rom

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.82)
522
their territorial xpansion and upon ther tmp
relieve the presure at homei
200d0".
Hieher Standardo of Lsvinge
To standard of living i3 risine i Japam. her
Is a rout r varluty of focd, a wicor rolee of alo
and, in n i rger citios, met better housing them h
tho oase a coere':n o. There has hem at the 
time a arked inorenso in attendanee at allege 
univereitins. ritanrously wit a rising andend
livire trere ras boon a riee in moral atandarde.
2000lus1on.
Laving triod without wacceee te solve the preblmm
of ever popalation by eni gration and calonisetih 
they have been sueeeasful Ln this direstier theogh
sombimation of peslent herd verk, Lakelligens plammtng
and fertanate oirewmstanees, they Tine the et
which t al protadlity out t 

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.88)
5-23
- 6. 
wmild roain oruehe for ore than cme or t
after whie: th:e proosse would have to be.
problem coxfronting Festorn nat ans would appmar ta
shether to endeevor to preserve Festtrn Lnterests
Far Fnst for a pererat on or two by defeatin 
wer, or mether to endeavor to satiary Japan's urm
ceonomic emansion by ranting larger markots and
opport ity for Ja aneso entor rise in the tarrito
contrcllod by tho eatorn nat fons. The second 
of ocu'se, would be accompanied by stoady preeture to
preserve our clioios rolating to the Far nst and to
comllitarize the Japanoso :ntion.

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.89)
2
1541
March 13 1935
D
Dear Ar. preeident:
You may recall that I submitted to you, with 
lotter dated Jamuary 22, 1936, a despatah from . re,
894.00/541
the nerlcan Ambassasor to Japan, on the ubjet: 
portance of Amer:ca Raval reparedness in Compeetiom
Ith the itation in tho Far ast.
 ero are onclosed a copy cf a further despatah from
r. ro, n tle sbjeet: "ge Toward xpaneion 
Ja an", and a digest li ereof. in hie previoue despatb
r. et tre that the in tec tatee be adoquately
repare  mect all oventalities in the ar Fast". m
his nost recent espateh r. Grew dissusses certain seslal
and cconcmio forees and conditions whiah apply to the
Japenese and ive rise to the movement tomard ccomomie
and politieal expansion.
tr. Grew presemts the thought that the united stategs
while preparlng iteelr to meet any eventualities in the
Far :ast, might also ase. me a sympethotie and ecoperative
ascstmde
resident,
The J.1te Houee.

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.86)
- 2 -
attit de toward Japan based on larger comsideratioms
reaching into the future. It is our belief thet, amee
the rosent Achinietration came intc ofrioe, we beve
endeavcred, w orover practicable, to be cooperative
toward Japen.
it is lellevec truet perieai of the cigost and, i
time ax opnortunity porrit, of tle dospatan iteeir wisl
be fow:c lolpfui.
aithfully youre,
nolosure. :
:ony o Jespetab
anc:gest tinroof.
PBIEHD/DLY
FE
S
3L8-35
12.294
