894.512 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Taxation. Processing Tax. For Treaties, Conventions, Arrangements, Ect., Add Country Number, Using Smaller Number Of Country For **., January 16 (File 1736)
ID: 894.512-1736   Pages: 197   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.512-financial-conditions-budget-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
894.512/1-1645
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Enclosing report relative to the new tax law to be
presented to Japanese Parliament.
894.512/1-1645
F1
S
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#10590
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Jan.16,1945
From
Switzerland
Dated
File No.
894.51/1-1645
eme
NG OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
S.GNED & RECEIVED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SEORETARY. SWNCO
Subjeot:
Directive Regarding Japanese
Taxation of Aliens.
There is enclosed a draft direetive prepared on
the basis of a policy decision (also enolosed) unanimeualy
approved at the twentieth meeting of the Far Fastern
Commission on July 18, 1946, under the provis1ons of
894.512/7-1846
paragraph II, A, i of its terms of referenee.
It is requested that the enolosed direotive be
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmission,
if the directive in their opinion satisfaotorily ex-
presses the policy decision of the Far Fastern Commission,
to General MeoArthur for his guidance in aceordanoe with
paragraph IIl, 1 of the terms of reference of the Com-
mission.
xx
The Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission
has requested that the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in trans-
mitting the enolosed draft direotive to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, inform him that in
approving the statement of policy on whioh the enolosed
direotive is based, the Commission recommended that in
connection with this policy deolsion, the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers should be informed that
the Far Eastern Commission hes currenely under considera-
tion additional policy with respect to extraordinary
taxstlon designed to meet war costs or other charges
falling on the Japanese as a result of the war, such
as the Inoreased Property Tax Law and the War Profits
Tax Law as Imposed on Juridical Persone.
J. H. Hilldring
State Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee
Enclosures:
1. Draft Directive.
#b
2. Statement of Polloy.
aeD
JA:ALDunmingImle
EOR
7-22-48×

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
STATENENT OF POLICY REGARDYNG JAPANRSE
TAXATION OF ALIENS
1. Ne Japanese taatiom sheuld diseriaimate agaimss
al1ems.
2. No capital levy should be levied by the Japamese
authorities in respect to preperty im er outside Japam ewmes
by United Nations nationals. Aay capital levy on corporatiems
and umincorporated associatiems should be so devised as to
exempt from the effects of the levy, the shares and interests
in the said corporations and unincorporated assosiations
held by United Nations nationals. Ir in the opinion of the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, exceptional eirews-
stanees justify the imposition ef any such capital levy. me
should refer the matter for consideration of the Far Fasterm
Commission.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
BMOLOSURE
DIRECTIVE RESARDING JAPANESE TAXATION OF ALIEMS
The folloving statement ef pelioy, adepted by the Far
Eastern Commission on l8 July l946, under the provisiom of
paragraph II, A, l of its Terms of Referenoe has been
reseived from the State, War and Navy Departments fer trams-
mission to you as a directive for your guidamee in accerdemse
with paragraph III, 1, of those Terms of Referenee. You
shoulà take appropriate steps to insure that any tex laws
adopted by the Japanese conform to the prineiples set ferth
in this statement:
"1. No Japanese taxation should discriminate against
al1ene.
*2.
No capital levy should be levied by the Japanese
authorities in respeot to property in or outside
Japan owned by United Nations nationals. Any
capital levy on corporations and unincorporated
associations should be so devised as to exempt frem
the effects of the levy, the shares and interests
in the said coroorations and unincorporated assoels-
tions held by United Nations nationals. If im your
opinion exceptional oiroumstances justify the
impositien of any such capital levy, you should
refer the matter for consideration of the Far
Eastern Comaission."

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
nee
JUL 190946
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUL 23 1946
DO
OFFICE
OF
CHIEF
The attached copy of a document unanimously adopted
at the twentieth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, held
894.512/7-1846
at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C.
on 18 July 1946, has been compared with the original text
and is hereby certified to be correct.
Telem Tm
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
18 July 1946
JUL 251946
2
CR
OFD On.:
894.512
na
Rev.
Jat.
Dist.
7-1846

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
E NC L OS U RE
JAPANESE TAXATION OF ALIENS
1. No Japanese taxation should discriminate against aliens.
2. No capital levy should be levied by the Japanese author-
ities in respect to property in or outside Japan owned by United
Nations nationals. Any capital levy on corporations and unincorporated
associations should be so devised as to exempt from the effects of
the levy, the shares and interests in the said corporations and uninoor-
porated associations held by United Nations nationals. If in the opinion
of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, exceptional circumstances
justify the imposition of any such capital levy, he should refer the
matter for consideration of the Far Eastern Commission.
FEC-055/4
-1-

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
18 July 1946
RECEIVED
JUL 23 1946
The Honorable James F. Byrnes
'OFFICE
DO
OF JAPANESE
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
19194626
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.512/7-1846
provide that one of the functions of the Commission should be to
"formulate the policies, principles and standards in conformity
with which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the
Terms of Surrender may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are
made by the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government
shall prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions
of the Commission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander
through the appropriate United States Government agency."
74o..
At the twentieth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C., on
18 July 1946, the enclosed policy decision relative to Japanese
Taxation of Aliens, was unanimously approved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I
have been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of
JUL 251946
the Commission, in order that the appropriate directives may be
prepared and transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with
the Terms of Reference.
In approving the statement of polioy, the Commission
recommended that in connection with this policy decision, the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers should be informed that the Far
Eastern Commission has currently under consideration additional
policy with respect to extraordinary taxation designed to meet war
costs or other charges falling on the Japanese as a result of the
war, such as the Increased Property Tax Law and the War Profits Tax
Law as Imposed on Juridical Persons.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
I should appreciate it if this information could be transmitted
to the Supreme Commander along with the appropriate polioy directive.
Respectfully yours,
Relem uceue
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Enclosure

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
July 22, 1946
MEXORANDUM FOX THE SEORETARX SCO
Subjeot: Directive Regarding Japamese
Taxation of Alions.
There is enelesed a draft direotive prepared en
the basis of a policy scleion (also enelosed) umamimeualy
apcroved et the twentieth me-ting of the Far Easterm
Commisa1on on July 18, 1946, under the provisions of
paragraph II, A, l of its terms of referenoe.
It 1s requested that the melosed direative be
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmieslon,
if the direotive in their opinion satisfectorily ex-
presses the polioy decislon of the Far Fastern Commleslem.
to General HaoArthur for his guidanoe in aceordmnee with
paregraph I1I, 1 of the terms of referenoe of the Cem-
mission.
The Seeretery General of the Far Fastern Sommissiem
has recuested that the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in trane-
mitting the enolomed draft directive to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied lowers, Inform him that in
approviny the statement of polioy on whioh the emolesed
direotive 1s based, the Commlssion recommended that in
connection with this pollcy decislon, the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allled Povers should be informed that
the Far astern Commisslon hss currently under considera-
tion additional policy with respect tc extraerdinary
texetion deslgnel to meet wer costs or other charges
falling on the Jspenese ne e result of the war, such
as the Inoreased Property Tax Law and the War Profits
Tax Law as Imposed on Juridieal Pergons.
J. H. Hilldring
ssate Nember
State-War-Mavy Coordinating Committee
Enolosures:
1. Draft Direetive.
2. Statement of Polioy.
JAIALDunningIale
PE
7-22-46

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.90)
DIREOTIVE RESARDING JAPANESE TAZATBON GF ALENMS
The felloving statesent of pell ow, adepted ty the Pae
Tastera Consiesion en 2e Jaly lo4s, umder the prevision ef
paregraph II, A, 1 of its Tovms of Referemee hee been
should take appropriate stepe te snaure shat aay tax lawe
edepted by the dapasese eenferm te the primnlples set ferth
in shis statement:
"1. No Japantse taxatiom ahould diserimimate against
aliens.
"2. No capital levy ahould be levied by the Japamese
authorities in respeet to property in or ostside
Junan owned by Umited Matioms matiomals. Aay
capital levy on corporations and unincer orated
associstions should be so devised as tecassset frem
the effects of the levy, the shares and intereets
tions held by United Nations natiomals. If im your
opinion exeeptional airowmstances justify the
imposi:icn of any such oapital levy, yon should
refer the matter for consideration of the Far
Eaatern Commission."

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.90)
STATHNIRT OF POLICT ABSARDINO SAPABESE
TAXATION OF ALIMS
1. No Japasese tazation should diserisimete egasmes
a1iems.
2. Xe capital levy should be levied by the Japemese
authorities in respeot to property in or sutside Japem eumes
by Umited Nations nationale. Aay eapital levy em eerpemassome
and uninoorporated aasocistiens should be so devised as te
exempt from the effeots of the levy, the shares end intereste
in the said corporations and unincorporated assoslasioms
held by United Natiome nationals. If in the opiniom of the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Povers, exeeptlomel sipemm-
staners Justify the imposition of any sueh capital legy, me
should refer the matter for conelderation of the Far Eastewm
Commission.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
Cinc
Dc/R fele
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
RESTRICTED
DATE: August 1, 1946
SUBJECT:
Exemption of United Nations Nationals from Certain Internal
Extraordinary Tax LMeasures in Japan.
PARTiciPAnTs: Mr. Martin, Mr. Whitman, Mr. Barnett--JK; Mr. Freeman--Le;
Mr. Arnold--CP.
894.512/8-146
COPIES TO:
CP - Mr. Gay
ITP
JK - Mr. Whitman
A meeting was held this afternoon in Mr. Martin's
office to consider the position of the U.S. member of the
Far astern Cormission in connection with the above subject.
ir. Martin stated that the FEC is considering proposals
to exempt United ations nationals and their property in
FILED
Japan from three scecific Ja unese intornal tax measures
constitutin extraordinary taxation designed to meet
CS
Japanese War costs. The taxes are a Capital Lovy, an
Excess War Profits tax, and an Increased Property tax.
NV
Initial ly, a majority of the FEC favored exemption of UN
nationals from all three taxes, in opposition to the United
States position of equal treatment to UN and Japanese
nationals alike. On the grounds that it was a more excessive
tax and considerably different from the other two, the U.S.
conceded granting the exemption in the case of the capital
levy only, in return for which the British agreed tentative-
ly to equal treatment, (no UN exemption) on the other two
894.512
taxes. Later, however, the British members stated they had
received new instructions supporting their former position
on the rounds that these taxes were extraordinary taxes
designed to meet Japanese war costs, that the Japanese had
brought the war on themselves and hence should pay these
particular war taxes themselves. The U.S. still continued
na,
According
Rev.
Uat.
Dift.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
2
According to Mr. Freeman, who is speaking for the U.S.
on the FEC committee considering this question, two main
arguments have been presented for the U.S. position: 1-
That the question must be regarded from the long-range
point of view, that our policy in such matters elsewhere
is to favor national treatment (i.e., no discrimination
for or against foreign nationals in domestic tax legislation),
and that to make an exception for Japan would be inconsistent
with that policy; 2- That these tax measures are designed
to aid in rehabilitating Japan, that UN nationals and their
property in Japan will benefit from rehabilitation, and
hence should share in t he cost. The U.S. stand is supported
at present only by the Philippines and the USSR.
In reply to a question from Mr. Martin, I stated that
CP's interest in the matter was to have a consistent foreign
commercial policy, that our position was substantially the
same as the point which Mr. Freeman had made (#1 in the
precedin paragraph); that an exception to the policy of
national treatment in the case of Japan would be hard to
justify in the light of our Proposals for World Trade and
Employment.
A meeting of the FEC committee on this subject will
be heId tomorrow, Friday, at 3:00 P.M. Mr. Freeman stated
that unless he could get some additional arguments for the
U.S. position, the committee would probably take the British
position of exemption from all three taxes and his only
alternative would be to file a minority report. I stated
I would try to et some arguments from our people and
give then to him. Mr. Martin suggested and Freeman agreed,
that CP shculd send a man to the meeting with Freeman, a
man to argue the U. S. position. I said I would pass that
suggestion on to CP and let them know by Friday noon.
It would seem that the CP representative should be someone
who kmows our commercial policy generally as regards
national treatment, particularly in taxation matters, and
who kmows how the subject is treated in our various commercial
treaties in order to answer possible questions from FEC
committee members.
my
2
CP:JArnold:dmr
8/1/46

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.91)
August 14, 1946
CONFLENTIAL
89
MENORANDUM FOR THE SEGRETARX GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN GONNISSION
4.512/8-1246
In aseerdanee with instruetions of Angust 12, 1946,
from the State-War-Mavy Coordinating Gemmittee, there
1s enelosed for the 1nformation of the Far Eastern
Commission a copy ef a message from the Supreme Cemmamter
for the Allied Powers to the Joiat Chiefe of marf
dc
dated August 8, 1946, regarding the question of the
Japanese Tax Program.
CS/V
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seeretary
Enclosure:
CR OFD Un
89
to JOS.
Rev. 3
512
Cat.
AUC 14 1946 F.M.
somy
D-1
the sizusd orie-
RhD
inal. t/5
JA:ALDunn1ag/pm

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4672
12 August 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: Japanese Tax Program.
894.512/8-1246
The Joint Chiefs of Staff request that the attached
copy of a message from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers be forwarded by the Department of State
to the Far Eastern Commission.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
J.H. HILLDRING,
5 346
State Department Member
760.5
Enclosure:
Copy of message from
SCAP to JCS
menat hyFEc
FHD
AUG 1 9 1946
FILED
OR FD Un
B
3
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
(copy)
SNN-4600
23 July 1946
MEMORANDUIA FOR THE SECRETARY, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF:
Subject: Directive Regarding Japanese Taxation
of Aliens.
There is enclosed a draft directive prepared on the
basis of a policy decision (also enclosed) unanimously ap-
proved at the twentieth meeting of the Far Eastern Commis-
sion on July 18, 19ló, under the provisions of paragraph
II, A, 1 of its terms of reference.
It is requested that the enclosed directive be for-
warded by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, if the directive in
their opinion satisfactorily expresses the policy decision
of the Far Eastern Commission, to General MacArthur for
his guidance in accordance with paragraph III, 1 of the
terms of reference of the Commission.
The Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission
requests that the Joint Chiefsof Staff, in transmitting
the enclosed draft directive to the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, inform him that in approving the state-
ment of policy on which the enclosed directive is based,
the Commission recommended that in connection with this
policy decision, the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
should be informed that the Far Eastern Cormission has cur-
rently under consideration additional policy with respect
to extraordinary taxation designed to meet war costs or
other charges falling on the Japanese as a result of the
war, such as the Increased Property Tax Law and the War
Profits Tax Law as Imposed on Juridical Persons.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
A. D. REID,
Secretary

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
(copy)
DIRECTIVE REGARDING JAPANESE TAXATION OF ALIENS
The following statement of policy, adopted by the
Far Eastern Commission on 18 July 1946, under the pro-
vision of paragraph II, A, 1 of its Terms of Reference
has been received from the State, ar and Navy Departments
for transmission to you as a directive for your guidance
in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of those Terms of
Reference. You should take appropriate steps to insure
that any tax laws adopted by the Japanese conform to the
principles set forth in this statement:
"1. No Japanese taxation should discriminate
against aliens.
"2.
Ho capital levy should be levied by the Japanese
authorities in respect to property in or out-
side Japan owned by United Nations nationals.
Any capital levy on corporations and unincor-
porated associations should be so devised as to
exempt from the effects of the levy, the shares
and interests in the said corporations and unin-
corporated associations held by United Nations
Nationals. If in your opinion exceptional cir-
cumstances justify the imposition of any such capi-
tal levy, you should refer the matter for consider-
ation of the Far Eastern Commission."

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
0
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Fili
WASHINGTON, D. C.
9-18-
y
SWN-4724
9 September 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE STATE MEMBER, SWNCC
Subject:
Consultation with the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers Relative to Extraordinary
Taxation in Japan.
Pursuant to the request of the State-War-Navy Coordin-
ating Committee, the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 6 September
894.512/9-946
1946 dispatched to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, as WAR 99688, the contents of the enolosure to the
memorandum. from the State Department Member on the above
subject dated 30 August 1946:
The following message has been received from the Supreme
Commander for the All1ed Powers as a reply to WAR 99688:
"In view of the fact that the complete set of tax
bills have not yet been passed by the Japanese Diet,
publicity upon the subjeot of treatment of Allied
Foreign Nationals at this time is considered premature
and no press releases in Tokyo are contemplated. A
release on this subject now will gravely embarrass the
C
administration of the comprehensive program now in
3E
S
process of legislative action and wiil greatly increase
EF 181946
the difriculties whioh confront the execution of the
basio policies involved. Until action has been taken
by the Diet on the series of complex bills under con-
templation I recommend no press release be ads. There
can of course be no objection to suoh a releage after
the acoompliahment of these administrative melaures."
894.512
9
The foregoing is furnished for your informatjon and any
action considered appropriate.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
A. D. REID,
Secretary
K
6
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.94)
SEP 12 1946
CONENTIAL
MEMORANDUN FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL
894.512/9-946
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
With reference to the cable dispatohed by the Joint
Chiefe of staff on 6 September 1946 to the Supreme
Commander or the All1ed Powers, as WAR 99688, subjest:
extraordinary taxation in Japan, the following message
has been reseived from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers:
"In view of the faot that the oomplete set of
tax bills have not yet been passed by the Japamese
Diet, publioity upon the subjeet of treatment of
Allied Foreign Nationals at this time is considered
CS/HH
premature and no press releases in Tokyo are comtem-
plated. A release on this subject now will gravely
embarrass the administration of the comprehemsive
program now in process of legislative astion and will
greatly inorease the difriaulties which confront the
740.0
execution of the basic policies involved. Uatil
action has been taken by the Diet on the series of
complex bills under contemplation I recommend no
press release be made. There can of course be me
objection to such a release after the accomplishment
of these administrative measures."
The foregoing is furnished for your informatiom and
94.512
any action considered appropriate.
J. H. Hilldring
DC
F1. On
Assistant Secretary
eai 1
0
Dist.
6
9/12/46
A-H:JTForno:MM

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
September 23, 1946
0apin:2K
Kindly pass to appropriate
Division in State Department for
appropriate action.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
W. L. CLAYTON
A-H
SEP19 1948
SEP 2 3 1946
7
CONFIDENTIAL
A-C
GENERAL HILLORING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
16 September 1946
LU
S
8960
The Honorable William L. Clayton
Aoting Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.512/9-1646
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The memorandum of Assistant Secretary Hilldring to the
Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, dated 12 September
1946, transmitting for information and appropriate action the
message from the Supreme Commander with respect to the Commission's
proposal to release its consultation on the subject of Japanese
extraordinary tax laws to the press, has been received. The
original consultation of the Commission on this subject, and the
proposal for its release to the press, were contained in the
letter of the Chairman to you dated 28 August 1946, transmitting
the text of the dooument SC-0l6/8.
8
The reply of the Supreme Commander was submitted to the
Far Eastern Commission at its twenty-fifth meeting on 12 September
1946, and the Commission unanimously agreed to accept the recom-
mendation of the Supreme Commander that a press release be post-
CS/A
poned until action by the Japanese Diet on the tax bills has been
completed.
As Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I
have been instructed to forward this decision of the Commission to
you, with the request that you inform the Supreme Commander accord-
ingly.
Sincerely yours,
894.512
Teleo Tuluhum
Nelson T. Johnson
DCI
F1. Jn.
Secretary General
5
9-1646
1.51

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.92)
6 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
NEMORANDUN TO SECRETARY, SWNGO
Sub jeet:
Viewe of the Far Easterm Cemmissiem Teward
Question of Releasing to the Press Its
Consultations on the Subjest of Japamese
Extraordinary Tax Laws.
894.512/9-164
On September 6, 1946 the Chairman of the Far Lasterm
Commission sent a consultative message te the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers/relative to extraerdimary
taxation 1n Japans attashed to whieh was the statememt
that the Far Lastern Commission intended to release its
sonsultations on this subjest te the press.
With referenee to the reply of Scap. dated
September 8, 1946, to the above cemmunieatien 1m whick
he staiod that he sonsidered publicity upen the subjeet
of treatment of Allled Foreign Matiomals at this time
to be premeture, it 1s requested that SCaP be imfermed
that his message was submitted to the FIc at its
twenty-fifth meeting on September 12, l946 and that
the Commissiom unanimously agreed te assept the resem-
CS/A
mendation of the Supreme Commamder that a press release
be postponed until astion oy the Japanese Diet on the
tax bills has been sompleted.
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Sesretary
894.512
Ub
FL
Ser 26
Re
475
346
Q
aRD
JA:ALDunning:mls
FE
4 true n
9-25-46
the sigpel
1646
grid
inal

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
MoDind- will
DITISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
TO
JK - Mr. Martin
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DATE: 12-10-46
DEBARTMENT OF STATE
pand 2-6-47 C.Jeoher
FROM
SUBJECT:
Application of Capital Levy Tax to Koreans Resident
in Japan.
894.512/1
The attached memorandum which Mr. Cho, a Korean seoretary
to Prince Ri submitted to Mr. William J. Sebald raises the
question as to the application of the capital tax levy on
Koreans resident in Japan.
Mr. Sebald has indicated that to his knowledge, SCAp has
not as yet determined the course that is to be taken in apply-
ing the levy to Koreans, but feels that this, and other questions
12-1046
related to the treatment whioh will be acoorded Koreans in Japan
may be referred to Washington for a decision.
Despite the faot that SCAP has been using every means to
induce Koreans to return to Korea, an estimated 40opoo remain.
In some instanoes, Koreans have considerable business interests
of their own in Japan, and others have managed to find prominent
positions in large Japanese business concerns. Black market
operations have been a fertile field in which Koreans have
participated heavily. It is estimated that a majority of
Koreans however, will probably fall within the exempt olassi-
fication of those having capital of no more than 30,o00 yen.
Should the capital levy tax be imposed upon Koreans, all
of Mr. Cho's arguments will doubtless find expregeten from
Koreans in Japan and in Korea as well.
In case Koreans are treated as United Nations nationals,
Mr. Sebald has indioated that it would constitute an open in-
CS/V
vitation for Koreans to engage in cloaking operations which
would be used by Japanese to escape the provisions of the tax.
It is realized that the problems raised by this issue are
similar to others concerned with the treatment of Korns in
Japan and elsewhere. As a start in the direction of dnitiel-
ing discussions that may eventually consider the problem aa
whole, it is suggested that you might want to have a reprgen-
tative from your Division meet with Mr. Williams in oler Go
consider possible recommendations on the specific pralem of
the application of the capital tax levy to Koreans in Japan.
DOF )FD Unr
R
-1046
JA:JZWI1ams:8g

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.92)
2064
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
Department of State
COMFIDENT
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
FEB11 1947
SUPREVE COMNANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
7.fom
TOKYO
512
45
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
2-1147
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
(Inform Whitman), suggest you discuss with SCAP officials
R
application capital levy Koreans in Japan. Assumption here is
under 100,000 yen exemption few Koreans involved. If deemed
895.577
practicable suggest consideration be given applying only Koreans
intending remain in Japan. If Koreans intend return Korea are
exempt, involves consideration exemption Formosans, also use
Koreans by Japs for cloaking purposes.
marshall
CS
(bnm)
1
N
DO/T
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
894.512
Eag
47E
FEB
UR
ee
K
A-H
JK:OJicDiarmid:el
FI UP
2/6/47/5i
007
/2-1147
CR CLEARANCE
Re
in 489
!8.1
Dist
714468

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
Ri .,
auth agri
this tex.
Reelarekiem, we are not responsible for this tax to atone fee
the Japemese war crimes. of couse as long as we live in Jage
4. Shibusawa, former Japanese Minister of Fimenee, belf the right
opiniom that the property tax should not be collected frem the
Koreans as well as the neutral nations.
5. We cannot agree with the opinion that the Koreens withomt
nationality should be regarded as Japanese because Kores hes no
government.
is mot established. The Allied Powers that have divided
are te blame for it.
7. It will be the sherking of the responsibility on the part
2
of the Allied Forces and also against the spirit of Potsdam
Declaration, if they put the Koreans again under the cemtrel
of the Japanese Government on the pretext that Korea has me
government. The bitter experience caused by the Japemese Tyrammy
for thirty five years is quite enough for us.
8. Me wish you would understand our position as small, weak
nation and adopt the proper policy for us.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVIION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
3
GIVISION OF JAPANESE AND .E
CONFIDENTIAL
A
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Action: ESP
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
Info:
Control 7949
A-H
FE
Rec'd February 26, 1947
1129
OCD
4:27 n.m.
ACT INF
CIG
gn
ESP
OFD
ES
PC
FROM: Toky
CA
DC/R
JK
: Seererrry or state
894512
3
NC
41, Fobruary 25.4 a.m.
REDEPTEL 45. February 11.
894.512/2-2547
In view of FC statement of policy (FEC 055/6)
exemrtions rom capital levy or other extraordinary
taxes are apparently determined by FEC. Current
FE: policy provides exemption only for property
not been givou to exempt other persons.
Nejsral., former belligerents leter considered
friendly, staleless individuals, and libereted
persons ll are presentiy subject to the capital
levy.
It 1s est1mated there are 561,000 Koreans now 1n
Japen who have refused repatriation. Of this number
some 20,000, meny of whom have sizeable assets, are
believed to be subject to the capital levy.
Should Formosans be determined to be Chinese and
thus United Nations nationals, they would auto-
metically be exempt under present FEC polioy; but
this ouestiou is underatood to be still under int r-
goverrmental discussion and involves many complica-
t1ons, REOURTEL 492, October 29, 1946 and other
correspondence to
APR - 7 1947
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- #41, February 20, from Tokyo.
correspondence to and from Department regarding
Formosans in Japan.
If Denartment is considering proposing changes in
FEC policy re exemption from capital levy or other
extraordinary texes request Scar be fully edvised
of Derartment a views soonest and given opportunity
to comment thereof prior to final decision Us
position end before presentation to FEC.
Whiteman presently absent from Japan.
ATCHESON
WFS:DHC
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
ND
DATE: March 27,1947
TO
JK
mom : WE - B.R. Kittredge, Jr.
SUBJECT :
The attached memorandum was delivered to me
by hand by a member of the Swiss Legation on
March 26.
I am forwarding it to JK for action in
consultation with Lk and any other divisions which
may be concerned.
I should appreoiate being advised of the
reply which wili be made to the Swiss Legation.
BaK
DIVISION DE MPANESE AND KONE..
WE:BRKittredge:hd
REPMITIENTTATE
APR111947

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
MEMORANDUM
The Legation of Switzerland has been apprized of the
tenor of communications recently exchanged between the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission in Japan and the General Head-
quartere, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
894.512/3-2647
Diplomatic Section, Tokyo, in order to define the extent
of application of tax laws promulgated by the Imperial
Japanese Government. It was found that neither the Capital
Levy Law nor the War Indemnity Special Measures Laws provide
exemption from taxation by reason of the possession of the
nationality of a neutral country and that only nationals
of certain of the United Nations are exempted from taxation
as set forth in the Enforcement Regulations for these taxes.
CS/A
According to information supplied to the Swiss Diplo-
matic Representative in Tokyo, this discrimination against
594.512
nationals of neutral countries apparently originated in
Washington. The Legation of Switzerland has therefore been
instructed to approach the American authorities in this
question.
eg7

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
二2
The Swiss request for treatment under these tax laws
of Swiss nationals and firms on an equal basis with allied
nationals is primarily based on the most-favored-nation
provisions of Article 14 of the Swiss-Japanese Treaty of
Settlement of June 21, l9ll. This clause reads as follows
in its translation:
"The high contracting parties agree in all
matters relating to commerce and industry
that every privilege, favor, or exemption
which one of the parties extends or will
extend in the future to nationals of any
other foreign country will be extended
immediately and unconditionally to the other
contracting party, since it is their inten-
tion to treat in every respect commerce and
industry of both contracting countries on
the basis of most-favored nation."
Under the proposed Japanese tax laws, however, the
activity of Swiss firms in Japan must be considered jeopar-
dized and their very existence threatened by the application
of such regulations which seem contrary to the letter and

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
spirit of the Swiss-Japanese Treaty of Settlement. This
all the more since tax privileges have been accorded to
third countries.
The Swiss Government is unable to understand why
Swiss nationals and firms should be given a less favorable
treatment than those of other third countries. Such dis-
crimination can hardly be considered justified by
Switzerland in view of the provisions of Article 14 of the
Swiss-Japanese Treaty of 19ll. Furthermore, Switzerland,
as former Protecting Power for United States interests in
Japan and also for Japanese interests in certain belligerent
countries, would consider itself entitled to expect for its
nationals a treatment as favorable as that granted to
nationals of third countries.
The Legation would therefore appreciate it if the
competent American authorities would be disposed to use
their good offices with a view to obtaining that the
decision excluding Switzerland from these tax exemptions
be revised in the light of the above considerations.
March 26, 1947
R.400.2 Bp/md

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.77)
TERNRANDUN
The Bepartment of State asimssledges the ressdgt of the
manrentm fren the Legatien of tettesrland deted larch 6, 204.
894.512/3-2647
requseting that the Ameriosn Antberities we thee goed aetiess
to abtain a revisien af the peliey respesting the appllesbélity
of certain Japemese teme to Srise preperty in Japes. the
momrendm retors to crtain eommmicstione reesntly emsiengeé
between the Sriss Biplemstle Miecien in Japen aad the Genseal
Éeadquarteee of the Sapereme Gosmasder for the Allted Posere in
Tokye, in shisk is wme asesrtaiued thas the enferesmené meesse
CS/A
of the Gapital Lovy Law and the ar Indemntty Spesial Nensures
Lame de ot pe the prepety of matsemle as tes tries
frem these meesres, therese preperty of mentere of the tatted
Natsame is se emagt. Is la stated further thes aeserding to
894.51
inferestien supplied to the Ssiss Diplemstée Repeesentatére in
Talge, this pallay erigtmated in Weshingten.
2
the pettey to t
ok .OFD Unit
res S de,  tablel
3
B
parenmé
eg7

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.71)
●8.
with renpeet to Japenese arteesettesny te Lase tn releslen to
nen-Japassse intiridmals and erperetiens, wme thst ne ehgostian
woald bo taken to the appllestte af mmsh tome to al preget
in Japen, regerdless eft the matienality of the eame. The
deciaien of the Far Eastern Commissien mae trommmitted to the
Supreme Somender fer the Allied Posere as a besie fur instees
tiane to the Japesese Govermet to emmge pregerty of mamiene af
the Uaited Natiems frem this tes.
In as mmsk as the sstian, is respest to the amnmptian of the
preparty af mambere af the taited latieme trem the Gapitel Long,
was taken by the Jagesese Bist, parosese to a polsey thme detere
Rined y the Tar Rastern Gemsiasien, the Dapartmess of State is
taking stege to trenants the momeendm of larah 26, 2047 of the
Seies Lagatian, tegether with thde rep ky, to the Far Nastemm
Gommission for ite emadderation. La pesn ae is pessthée, the
Govet ef the Tattet stetee  trent the e af
the Pae Eesterm Gentesien to the Lagattan ef astteand.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.73)
el,t,
th rotian el pse fiial en, 
ted y the  a he ee  
Lame. this an m tae to e prien to the p
tho e deded  to nd el af tht pry tth
Japese dtg the ,  t is ddeed t  the
h pae tt h prgty d te reed 
tested pendfeg tte retesra to the legitimate eamers.
PNY
cas
4/11/47
Lyp
Department of State,
Washington,
21944
47

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
Ofice MeMOrAndUm · UNITED STATES GOVEIN
TO: U.S. Representative
DATE: Apr11 30, 1947
Far Eastern Commission
FROM : Gen. Hilldring - A-H
SUBJECT: Application Japanese Extraordinary Taxes to Swiss
Property in Japan.
(007m)
M
Forwarded herewith is a memorandum from the Legation of
Switserland to the Department of State, containing a request
that American authorities use their good offices to obtain a
revision of the policy respecting applicability of certain
Japanese taxes to Swiss property in Japan.
Also attached is the Department of State's reply to the
Legation of Switserland.
Thege documents are forwarded for the information of the
512
FEC andt such -eemments or-other-action as the Cosmission may
desire to take.
ω
26
C
7
JK:OJMcDiarmid:w
Rev.
ai

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
Form "S-4
5-10
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Date
apil 30
TRANSMITTAL SLIP
TO:
m mouland (AH)
TRANSMITTED FOR:
INFORMATION OF THE DEPART-
INPORMATION OF THE FOREIGN
MENT'S REPRESENTATIVES
OFFICE
TRANSMISSION TO THE POR-
APPROPRIATE REPLY TO THE
INDIVIDUAL
EIGN OFFICE
SUBMISSION OF A REPORT TO
INPORMATION OF THE REPRE-
THE DEPARTMENT. REFER TO
SENTATIVE OF THE FOLLOWING
U. S. AGENCY:
(AGENCY)
ADDITIONAL REMARKS:
astached in cos nmo fo
tmin f swiss motland
Itut. I FEC.
Will yond please pull a
the te docnt
fil and snd 
DFECO
WHEN A REPLY TO THE DEPARTMENT IS INDICATED PLEASE REFER
TO THB FILE NUMBER AND THE DRAFTING OFFICE.
FILE No.
SIGNATURE
s.j. msdd
3705
DIVISI
2K

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.91)
In rephy reter to
896.812/8-0647
12/3-2647
Dear General MeGey:
I m enelosing hererith a eegy of e memeremta
fron the Legation of Switzerland, dated Mareh s8, 194y.
to the Depertment of State conteining a request that
the Umited States Govermment use its good ofriees to
btain a revision of the polioy respesting the
epplicability of certain Japanese taxes to swiss preperty
in Japan. I enclose also e copy of the reply mmde by
the Department of State to the Legation of Switmerland.
These documents are forwarded for the infommstion
of the Far Nastern Commission and for such astion es the
Commission may desire to take.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
CS/V
Rev.
Jat.
e.S
Esclosures!.
Kemorandum of March 26
from the Legation of
Switzerland.
68
2.
Memorandum of April so
from the Department of
State to the Legation of
Switzerland.
512
Major General Frank MmOoy.
Chairman, Far Eastern Commission,
2516 assschusetts Arenue, M.,
Go
Washington B. D. C.
人
6
f
A-H:WARudlia势
6/2/47
1747

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
Rtwre to KruI
n.S.
DATE: April 11, 1947
TO : A-H - K/S
RAn
FROM : JK - Mr. Whitman
sUBJECT: Applioability of Japanese Extraordinary Taxes to Swiss
Property in Japan
1. It is recommended that the memorandum of March 26, 1947 from
FW 894.512/3-2647
the Legation of Switserland, together with the reply of the Depert-
ment of State attached herewith, be transmitted to the U.S. repre-
sentative in the FEC, for the information of the FEC and such comments
or other action as the Commission may desire to take.
2. In respect to the present policies of the Japanese Government
under which the property of United Nations' nationals is exempted
from certain of the extraordinary tax measures recently promulgated
by the Japanese Diet, referenoe 1s made to SWNCC 281/4, 27 June 1946,
subject "Applicability of Proposed Japanese Extraordinary Tax Laws to
Non-Japanese Individuals and Corporations." Appendix "A" to Enclo-
sure "B" to that paper, indicates the background of the position taken
by SWNCC. The initial decision by SWNCC as contained in SWNCC 281/1,
was that this government had no objection to proposed Japanese extra-
ordinary tax laws being applicable to all non-Japanese individuals
and corporations. SCAP was so advised by JCS. When the matter was
taken up at FEC, however, Committee no. 6 of the FEC proposed on
May 9, 1946, that United Nations' property in Japan should not be
subject to a capital levy except with the prior consent of the FEC.
In difference to the position taken by Committee no. 6, SWNCC on
May 22, requested that JCS inform Gen. MacArthur that no action should
be taken with respect to the application of the Japanese extraordin-
ary taxes to United Nations' nationals until further notice. On
May 24, the Joint Economic Committees of the FEC endorsed the pro-
posed policy of Committee no. 6 with the U.S. alone dissenting. SWNCC
281/4 incorporated this FEC decision which was then transmitted to
CS/A
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
FW894.51V
osm
JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw
ESP Le Le/E NA WE A-H
Attachment
OFD Unit
3
-2647
εg+

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
0
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
P
Y
Washington 8, D.C.
MEMORANDUM
The Legation of Switzerland has been apprised of the
tenor of communications recently exchanged between the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission in Japan and the General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Diplomatic Section, Tokyo, in order to define the extent
of application of tax laws promulgated by the Imperial
Japanese Government. It was found that neither the Capital
Levy Law nor the War Indemnity Special Measures Laws provide
exemption from taxation by reason of the possession of the
nationality of a neutral country and that only nationals
of certain of the United Nations are exempted from taxation
as set forth in the Enforcement Regulations for these taxes.
According to information supplied to the Swiss Diplo-
matic Representative in Tokyo, this discrimination against
nationals of neutral countries apparently originated in
Washington. The Legation of Switzerland has therefore been
instructed to approach the American autherities in this
question.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The Swiss request for treatment under these tax laws
of Swiss nationals and firms on an equal basis with allied
nationals is primarily based on the most-favored-nation
provisions of Article 14 of the Swiss-Japanese Treaty of
Settlement of June 2l, 19ll. This clause reads as follows
in its translation:
"The high contracting parties agree in all
matters relating to commerce and industry
that every privilege, favor, or exemption
which one of the parties extends or will
extend in the future to nationals of any
other foreign country will be extended
immediately and unconditionally to the other
contracting party, since it is their inten-
tion to treat in every respect commerce and
industry of both contracting countries on
the basis of most-favored nation."
Under the proposed Japanese tax laws, however, the
aotiiity of Swiss firms in Japan must be considered jeopar-
dised and their very existence threatened by the application
of such regulations which seem contrary to the letter and

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
spirit of the Swiss-Japanese Treaty of Settlement. This
all the more since tax privileges have been accorded to
third countries.
The Swiss Government is unable to understand why
Swiss nationals and firms should be given a less favorable
treatment than those of other third countries. Such dis-
crimination can hardly be considered justified by Switzer-
land in view of the provisions of Article 14 of the
Swiss-Japanese Treaty of 19ll. Furthermore, Switzerland,
as former Protecting Power for United States interests in
Japan and also for Japanese interests in certain belligerent
countries, would consider itself entitled to expect for its
nationals a treatment as favorable as that granted to
nationals of third countries.
The Legation would therefore appreciate it if the
competent American authrities would be disposed to use
their good offices with a view to obtaining that the
decision excluding Switzerland from these tax exemptions
be revised in the light of the above considerations.
March 26, 1947
R.400.2 Bp/md

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
Referredt megbirmidin
Topp: ces
BRITISH EMBASSY.
IN OF JAPANESE AND KOREA
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
DC/R
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTNENT OR STATE
29th March, 1947
1947
894.512/3-2947
Ref: 289/ /47
2.47
MAY
Dear Genegal Snow,
Some weeks ago I discussed with Mr.
Freeman how the Commission might protect United
Rations nationals against Japanese taxation which
might lay upon then charges for defraying costs
trising out of the w:r. r. Freeman told me that a
clausc ureftcd on the lines of the following might be
included in the comercncnsive paper which the American
telegation to the Far astern Commission hopes to
pre unt to it shortly on the subjcct of Uniteu Nations
property in dapan.
"Lo excepticnal taxes, levies or
imposts ror the speciric purpose of meeting ch rges
rising out of the wr or of meeting the costs of
occupying rorccs shall be imposcu by the Japanese
uthoritics upon any pro erty belonging to nationals
of the unitcu .ntions which ialls within the scope of
the present paper".
I nave riven tnis proposal very
CS/V
careful consiuerntion and huve consulted the Foreign
(ffice.
as : result I should like to suggest, for the
consi leration of those who are engageu on this task,
the iollowing lternative draft:
"uniteu ations nationals and their
property shull be exeipteu Irom any taxes, levies or
1
imposts imposeu in vupan ror the purpose of meeting
公
chirges arisine out of the wur, incluuing the costs of
7
makin good war uamage and the costs or the occupation
51
and of reparation payuble to any or the United Nations
and snull also be exempted from any taxation, levies
4
7C. On
/or
Brig. Gen. C.. snow,
MAY 1:1947
204 Main Jtote Depurtment Blug.,
4.
FILED
dashington, D.C.
2
7

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
or imposts discrininating against United Nations
nationals anu their property".
You will see that the principle difference
between the two is that our draft revents the
imposition not only of taxes designed to meet any part
of the cost of the war but also any other taxes so
levieu as to discri. inate against United Nations
n.tionals.
Ycurs sincerely,
F.C. Everson

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.92)
APR3
In reply refer to
La/
894.512/3-2947
My dear Mr. Eversons
a
Thank you for your letter of March 29, 1947 suggesting
a olause for inelusion in the comprebensive paper whieh the
Ameriean Delegation te the Par Eastern Commission hopes to
present to the Cemmission shortly en the subjest of United
Mations property in Japan. I have passed your suggestien:
on to the people who are working om the paper.
Sineerely yours,
Conrad E. Snow
Assistant Legal Adviser
for
Political Affairs
CS/V
Mr. F. C. Everson,
89451V
First Seeretary,
tme
British Embassy,
Waskingtem, D. O.
Le/PocaSneme1ml
4-2-67
3
Re
h
1947P.M

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.88)
MAY
Y 21947
In reply refer to
894.512/3-2947
JK 894.512/3-2947
π
y dear . Dvereen:
Your lotter of Mareh 29, 1947, addressed to Generel Snsw oug-
United Nations' Preperty in Japan, hes beem refesred to the
Divisien of Japanese and Korean Eeonsmle Affaire for reply.
I an appresiative ef this susgectien, and the comstderation
whiek yoe, in esmealtatien with the Torelgn Orriss, heve given to
in comsestien with subeequoet work ee the paper.
I would like at this time to make the felleving testative
obeervatioms eu your prepesal in crder that yeu mey be smare ef
our thinking on the subjest.
1. In respeet to inesrperating in this elamse a gemeral
exemptien er United Nations' matiomels, as well
CS/V
poliay, eould mere appropriately be considered
separately, and should mot therefere be inessperated
property whick vas soised, soafiseated, er sequestered
by the Japanese during the mar. Sinse astien has
Nations' mationals in Japan, it la thought that a
8
duplieative in effest.
2. Regarding
Mr. F. C. Evereen,
First Sesretary,
British Embassy,
Washingten, D. C.
B
3
md)
f

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.85)
-2-
2. Regarding the emsapélen ef Naited Hatiane' metlemala fren
Ln Japan. This, I believe, La in aeesrdamee with the
prestise folloved in the draft treatiee with Paly nd
the Earepean satellite states, and my, is part at least,
meet your views om the matter.
Fdwin . Martim, Chief
Divis1om of Japamese and Kerean
Boomomie Affaire
NHH
oom
JK:OJMaDiarmid:mw
JA
4/17/47
ESP
Lo
ED
82
Copy to: Geml Smow (Le)
unsw
APi
2
347

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD PORM NO. 
: Sept. 22, 1947
To : OE - Mr. McDiarmid
RoM : A-S.- Mr. Conger
SUBJECT :
The attached letter of 18 September from
General McCoy of FEC is referred to OE for
information and any action necessary. You
may wish to refer this to the Swiss desk
for communication to the Legation of
Switzerland.
2942

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.95)
GA-599
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTSAVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
fili
18 September 1947
A-S
SEP 2 2 1947
894.512/9-1847
DIVIS:ON OF OCCUPIED AR :S
ECO OMA AIFARS
SEP51947
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Koneral Hilldring's letter of June 4,
1947, enolosing a copy of the memorandum from the Legation of
Switserland, dated Maroh 26, 1947-requesting that the United
States Government use its good offices to obtain a revision ef
the polioy respeoting the application of certain Japanese taxes
to Swiss property in Japan.
The Far Eastern Commission has given sympathetio considera-
tion to the request presented by the Legation of Switserland on
behalf of its Government and has carefully weighed the reasons
set forth in the aforesaid memorandum with a view te supperting
its olaim. After due examination of all factors involved, the
Commission regrets that it cannot accede te the request ef the
Swiss Government. It believes that the natienals of neutral
countries, who were able to do business in Japan during the war
years and thus derived the benefits acoruing therefrom, should
continue to be subject to local laws, inoluding laws imposing
taxation, whioh have as their object the raising of revenue for
the vitally necessary economic rehabilitation of Japan.
The Far Eastern Commission considers that it does not fall
within the Terms of Reference of the Commission to determine the
offeot of the Swiss-Japanese Treaty of Settlement of June 2l, 19ll
S
in the present ciroumstances.
Sincerely yours,
Frann
meeay
山
Frank R. MoCoy
Chairman
794.512
2.00
DIVISION OF
The Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Assistant Seoretary of State
Department of State
SEP1947
UE
Washington, D. C.
C2
FILED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2942

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.76)
U
47
A
The Bepertenst of State retere to the neaerentem tren the
894.512/9-1847
Lagatien ef Satteseland dated Narch 26, 2047, and to the Depart-
mat's reply tharote deted tay 2, s047, reapesttng the agpltes
bulsty of eurtata Japansse tamse to Suise preperty Sn Japen. Ia
the Laster eomdestion, the Repertmns ef State infermee the
Lagassen thet the Lagatsen's memerentme of larsh 26, 2047 wes
being trasenttted to the Tae Eastere Gomsiesten for tte constlese-
tien, and thae the Goveramet of the tatted states weald trements
the eommeste of the Far Rasters Gemmlasion to the Lagatten as sesn
a pesstble.
The Bepertesne la new in ressige ef the fellowing lettee frem
8
the Ghairmmn of the Yar Eestern Gommiesiens
V
"Beferense lo mede to Gomsral Milldrtng'a lotter
of 2ae 4, 2047, enelestng a enge of the merentie
frem the Legattan ef Sattessland, deted Narch 26, 2047,
requeeting thas the Uatted States Govesemens whe ste
good effiese to obtein e revisien of the palley seapest-
Lng the applleetsen of eurtete Japenese tamse to sntes
property
eot.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.81)
progerty In Jagen.
The Tar Jastern Gesisasde hes gtren agagathasede
Driteerland an bebels et ite Government and hee esrelly
weighed the resseme sot forth tn the aforesatd mtin
with a view to mappertiag ite alata. ter dme ammtmtten
of all festere faveived, the Gepatesien regrete thae 2s
camnet aseede to the request of the Srise Goverament. Is
belleves that the metianele of mestrel esantries, the were
able toe de busissse in Japen daring the war yeare and thms
dertred the benerite aosraing therefren, sheuld costteme to
bo sbjeet to losl Lame, imalaing lame iapesing tamian,
thish heve as their ebjeet the raising af reremme for the
vitally nsessssry eeenemie rekabilitation of Japen.
'The Far Bastera Gommssion eomstdere thes is dess not
fall witaia the Terme of Raferemse of the Gomsiestem to
detersine the affest of the Siss-Sapensse Treaty of Sestle-
mant ef Jume 21, Jo11 in the presene ciremnstensse."
Department of State,
October 13, 1947
Washington,
as
ogm
UGC
CR:OJMoDiarmid:
Le
9/24/47
RHW
O0T 10 3478.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.512/2-1248
FILE NO.
DESP.91 FROM TOKYO
RECORDCOPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
OCT 191948
FILD
Confidential File
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
FAP
M-184
9-23-48

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
ode
MAR 8 1948
SECRET
No. 91
Tokyo, February 12, 1948.
COFINRIAL
Rec'd (For Department Use Only)
Fob. 25
ACTION
FE-enc
INFO
OCD-enc
FR
Subject: Report Concerning Discussion of the Subject "Japanese
DCR
Tax Reform" at a Meeting of the Eoonomic Study Council
894.
OFD-enc
of the Asiatio Society, Jammary 15, 1948.
LE
ITP
A-S-enc
OFS
512
The Monorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
11
I have the honor to enclose copy of a report concerning a meeting
of the Economic Study Council of the Asiatic Society held on January
15, 1948 at which the subject "Japanese Tax Reform" was discussed. As
may be gathered from the discussion (which is sunmarised at the be-
ginning of the report) delinquency in payment of Japanese taxes presents
an important problem in Government finance, It appeare that, if the
present rate of tax payment is not improved, the Japanese Government
must continue to finance its operations by inflationary deficit spending
methods. (From conversations with Japanese officials it appears that it
is impossible in any case to avoid some deficit spending in view of the
low rate of production and the cost to the Japanese economy of the
Ocoupation, The achievement of an apparently "balanced budget" is said
to be a deception in as mnch as deficit spending contimues through the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation.)
There seemed to be general agreement among the participants in the
discussion that present Japanese corporate tax rates are too high end
should be altered. Mr. H. SHAVELL of the Finance Division of the
Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters also recommended
establishment of a more productive local tax system. In addition he
was obviously disturbed that tax colleotors, who feel that tax rates
are mmoh too high, have taken it upon themselves to make decisions con-
cerming each individual's ability to pay. He mssorted that the Tax Re-
form Law was demooratically passed in the Diet and that any change to
be made therein is a respensibility of the Diet. This statement caused
CONTIDETIAL
emsement

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyots 91
Feb. 12,1948
COMFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
amasement on the part of his listeners since it is commonly believed
that this Meadquarters' recommendations are used by the Government
to fores mest reform legislation through the Diet. It is unlikely,
therefore, that popular dissatisfaction could lead to a statutory
change not favored by advisers of this Headquarters.
Mr. Shavell strongly criticized corporations such as the Tokyo
Shibamra Electric Company which have misapuropriated taxes withheld
from employees' salaries. He stated that withheld taxes were in ar-
rears by 14.3 billion yen by November 1947.
As an example of this Headquarters' desire to encourage payment
2/
of taxes, there are enclosed five copies of an official Press Release
issued on January 21, 1948 in which Nr. Shavell praises the Japanese
Ministry of Pinance for initiating stringent measures against corpora-
tions which have misappropriated Government tax funde.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosures:
2. Report concorning a meeting
of the Eoonomic Study Group
of the Asiatic Society,
Jamuary 15, 1948.
2. Pive copies of a General
Headquarters, FEC, Prese Re-
lease, January 21, 1948,
concerning measures againet
tax delinquent corporations.
Original and osalid to the Department
851.2
RHDashner: os
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFLDENTIAL
malesure No. 1 to Despatch No. 91 d
February 12, 1948 from the Office of 81
(Fer Department Use Only)
United States Political Adviser for Jaye
Tokyo, entitled "Report Conceraing Dis
cussion of the Subject "Japanese Taz Re»
form" at a Neeting of the Boonomie Stady
Council of the Asiatic Society, Jamuary
15, 1948."
SUBJECT:
Report Concerning Discussion of "Japanese Tax Reform"
at a Meeting of the Economic Study Council of the
Asiatic Society, January 15, 1948.
PLACE:
Tokyo Correspondents Club.
PARTICIPANTSI
Dr. AYUSAWA Iwao, Secretary-General, Office of the
Central Labor Committee, Chairman of the Economio
Study Council, Asiatic Society.
Mr. J. R. HAkOLD, official of the Labor Division.
Economic and Scientific Section, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, Secretary of the Economie
Study Council, Asiatic Society.
Nr. H. SHavALL, official in charge of taxation,
Finance Division, Economic and Scientific Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
Mr. IKkDA Hayato, Vice-minister of the Finance
Ministry.
Mr. ToKUSHIMA Tonesaburo, Vice President of the
Tax Collectore' Union.
Mr. KANo Hisaaki, formerly Secretary-General of
the International Bank and adviser to the Yokohama
Specie Bank.
Nr. Burton CRaNE, Hew York Times correspondent.
Summary Mr. Shavell described the revision made in
the Japanose tax system in Maroh, l947. He feels that
corporation tax rates should be lowered and that local tax-
ation methods should be placed on a more productive basis.
He also described the present high rate of delinquency
in tax payment whioh he attributed to the unfamiliarity of
the public with self-aseessment of income taxes and opposition
to the colleotion of high taxes on the part of tax collectors'
unions. Mr. Ikeda attributed tax delinquenoy to the failure of
the first trial of self-assessment, inefficienoy of collection
agencies, and deterioration of public conscience. Me related
the importance of complete tax colleotion to the solution of
the problem of deficit finance and its corresponding effect
upon the rehabilitation of the Japanese economy.
Mre Tokushima
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. 1 to
Tokyo's 91
February 12,1948
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Kr. Tokushime criticized tax legielation as a mmss of
patch-work changes and complained of insufficient appro-
priations for tax collecting expenses. He characterised present
tex rates as exorbitant and asserted that, in order to avoid
throwing busines men into bankruptcy, tax collectore have taken
it upon themselves to determine individual ability to pay.
Mr. Crane stated that high tax rates are discouraging
legitimate business. He feels that tax levels, taken in
conjunction with new wge standsrds and low official
rices. leave busines men no profits.
Mr. Shy.vell described as a mejor factor in tax delinquency
the misappropriation by certain corporations of taxes withheld
from emaloyeest saleries. Ho strongly censured Kr. Tokushima
an? other tax collectore for taking the liberty of determining
the individusl taxpayert- ability to pay:
In response to e question Mr. Ikeda stated that it is
physically impossible to collect taxes from "third country
nationals" (a Japanese phrase commonly used to describe Chinese
and Eoreans) who have rafused to pay all taxes on the basis of
the precedent set by exemption of Allied nationals from the non-
recurring capital levy.
End of Summary.
The Chairman of tho Asiatic Society Economic Study Council, Dr.
AYUSawA Iwao presided at the meeting end the Secretary of the Council.
Hr. J. R. HanOLD presented the first speaker, Er. SHAV LL, who intro-
duced the subject for diacusston, "Js enese Tax Reform".
Hr. Shavell: The Japanese tax mystem up to March 194? was besed
upon a tax law of April 194o which chanzed tex laws of the Meiji period
as follows:
One, income tax waa given great weight; two, a second
corporetion tax replaced the corporation income tax; three,
local tax powers were diminished; four, the system of re-
distribution of taxes by the National Government to the
local Govemments was strengthened.
The physical inedequacies of the tax system, as revised in l940
beceme evident following the end of the wer. Incone from monopolies
of the Jenaneso Government failed to reep up with expenditures. In-
flation resulted in discrimination ageinst salaried worker since their
wagee were immediately eubject to taxation whereas other tax payere had
a period of from seven monthe to a year before payment was due (a deley
making poesible peyment in inflated currency). Furthermore, assessment
of incomee wes fraught with collusion because locally elected committees,
whose members were sponsored by vested interests, were often subject to
bribery.
Therefore.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl.1 to
Tokyo's 91
reb.12,1948
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Therefore, a reform tax law was passed in March 1947 and became
effective in April l947. Under this law the following changes were
made: self-assessment was substituted for governmental assessments,
a single progressive income scale replaced varied income tax
schedules; a corporate income tax was added; the excessive profits
tax was lowered; luury taxes were increased; and taxes on necessities
were lowered.
However, Jananese tax collection is far behind schedule. Taxes
at prcment uncollected amount to 94,000,000,000. Some of the reasons
for tax delinquencies srem to be laxity of governmont administration,
ignorance on the part of the public, and labor unrest in tax offices.
For exemple, tax collectors will not prosecute tax delinquents and
collect only small sums as penalties. In addition they will not attach
and sel! property belonging to delinquents and, despite the number of
delinquencies, there has been in all- Jepan not one person convicted of
tax evasion. The fact thet esrly tax publicity was poor is not a suf-
ficient excuse for the failure of the public to accept responsibility
for tex peyment. With regard to labor unrest, tax employees have re-
sorted to  slow-down campaign. Assessment and re-assessment notices
have not been despatched, on the grounds that employees are not paid
a "living wage". Placards hive been posted in tax offices informing
the public that it should not comply with such an "inoquitable tax
syatem". However, labor obstruction has been remedied in part and
therc are few such cases at present.
Under the new tax law, administrative measures heve been improved.
Thore is broeder selection and a single progressive income tax schedule.
Some heve criticized as premeture the adoption of the self-assessment
method of tex reporting but retention of "disinterested" local assess-
ment committees would have been a continuing source of injustice. Bov-
ever, it will take from five to ten yeers to fudge the success of the
new method end in the interim universal government re-assessments will
be necessery.
There anpears to be little need for further statutory change except
for the addition of a corporation tax to be levie'd by the Mational Goverm-
ment, end employment of more productive local taxes. Corporation taxes at
present are discriminatory, as they are levied on the basis of a ratie
of dead earnings to total invested capital. In addition corporation tares
are exorbitant and prevent industrial recovery. Another objectionable
feature is that the Wational Government now carries the burden of 60 per
cent of the cost of local finances. A real property tax offers one field
for additional local taxation although there is a grest deal of opposition
to such a tax. There can also be further administrative reform since
reforms on paper have not been effected in practice. For example, on ao-
count of lex enforcement measures, arrears are equal to budgetary defi-
ciencies.
Mr. Ikeda: (Mr. Kano translated). The greatest problem of the
Japanese Government at present is rehebilitation of the Japanese ecomomy:
a sound finance must be established if that problem is to be solved. To
that cnd it is necessary to balance the budget by seeking a mure souree
of revenue.
Upon
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. 1 to
Tokyo's 91
Feb.12,1948
-4
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Upon the basis of the budget, total anticipated expenditure this
year is 134,800,000,000. In connection with this year's budget,
anticipated principal tax revenues are:
¥68,500,000,000 from income taxes,
6,700,000,000 from corporation tazes.
23,800,000,000 from a tax on alcohol1c beverages.
7.800,000,000 from commodity taxes.
6,500,000,000 from a theatre admission tax,
6.500,000,000 from a tax on non-sufferere of war damage.
The Government is doine its utmost to balence the budget but healthy
finance depends unon full collection of anticipated tax revenues. However,
tax collection has been excecdingly unsatisfactory end delinquency at the
nd of the period from Apr1l to December 1947 amounted to 10,000,000,000.
One of the reasons for such delinquency is the failure of the firet
trial of self-aesessment which ns b en only twenty percent of Government
expectations. In addition delinquencies are increasing, partly on account
of the inefficiency of collection agencies and partly bocause of the
deterioration of public conscience.
The prcsent tax system hes presented unprecedented problems. It is
of primary importance to publicize the necessity for tax payment. One of
the roblems of the future is rationalization of the tax eystem since an
incrcase in yen income does not mean corresponding increase in real earn-
ings. In eddition adjustments in fanily allowances are necessary and
production must be fostered to increase revenues from indirect taxes.
Dr. Ayusewa: The third speeker is Hr. TOKUSHIMa Yonesaburo, Vice
Preeident of the Tax Collectors Union.
Thirty thousand tax collectors. are employed by the Finance Ministry,
twenty-three percent of wnom are girls paid on the basis of the eighteen
hundred yen monthly base wage level. The Tax Collectors Union i aid to
heve a i-mbership of 4.500.
Mr. Tokushima (Mr. Kano interpreted): I agree vith Mr. Ikeda that
Ja tn-se tex revenues are in a critical nosition. This is because of
petch-work chenges resulting from superficial thinking on the part of
Gov rnment officials and members of the Diet. In the book "Japan's
Finances" written before the war, Dr. Molton aid that the expense of
collecting taxes in Japan was very smell in comnarison to army and navy
expenditures, so small th:t efficient collection would seem impossible.
The Ja encse people, like other Asiatic people, do not understand the
meaning of love of duty, or conscience. That people should obey without
understanding is pccepted practice in Japan but it is impossible to obtain
success in tex revision without first building a foundation in the minds of
the people. Because of the Japenese habit of submitting all matters for
decision to covernment officials it is difficult to aweken people to the
real meaning of taxation.
At present it is the honest people who suffer, end who, on account
of correct assessment of their taxes, must sell their belongings so thet
they can pay. Nevertheless, tax evaders are comfortable. I know of
several individuals in Tokyo who earn between sixty and one hundred
million
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
Enál.1 to
Tokyo's 91
-5-
Feb,12,1948
COUFIDYUTIAL (For Department Use Only)
million yen a year whose tax delinquency is unchecked becamse of ineffi-
ciency and lack of personnel in tax offices.
Wage and salary earnere face great difficultiee. According to
investigations, persons earning 4,200 yen a month pay 15.9 percent of
their wages as taxes and persons earning 3,600 yen per month pay 13.6
percent as taxes. A laborer in the United States (with a wife and child)
earning 50 a week pays only 3.8 percent of hie wages in taxes. Japanese
laborers cannot live on their wages and mmst sell property to make up a
deficiency amounting to between five and six hundred yen a month. Unless
justice is achieved the people will become extremely dissatisfied because
they ser that the ne-rich evade taxes. In Japan enterprisers do not
correctly assnss their incomes and, because there is no public accountant
system, the wholr burden of asse sment falls upon the tax collectors.
Since collectors are now re uiring vayment in accordance with their own
estins tes as to individual ability to pay. a reduction in the rate of
taxation would not lessen revenue. In nny event, rovenues cannot be in-
creased until persons are found who can pay increased taxes. However,
unicn members are doing their utmost to insure increased collections and
to fight inflation. The tax system should be revised, inspection of tax-
payerst books by tax collectors should be legalized and greater funde
should be allotted for tax collection purposes.
The meeting w's then opened for general discussion by Mr. Burton
ChaWE. New York Times corresnondent, who asserted that double taxation
of cor orate income makee b sinoss revival in Japen impossible. In the
United States, he said, there is 49! percent double taxation in the lowest
bracket whereas in Japan there is 68 percent double taxation in the
lowest brackets. He feels that this encourages black market loans in un-
recorded businesc deals in an effort to avoid taxation. Jor that reason
he asked if more reasonable tex would not provide greater revenue. Kr.
Shevell greed that it would and tated that the Government would gain by
basing the cor oration tax syatem on invested capital from whatever source
obtained. Some taxes giving smell returns might be abolished.
Mr. Shevell noted that farmer: have been exemot from withholding
taxes end will be required to pay taxes under the new tax law for the
firt time thi month. The sum of eighteen billion yen colleoted up to
the rresent represents a tax paid only by wage earners.
Er. Sh vell pointed out that a large amount of taxes withheld from
wage earners? s-laries have been misappropriated by employers and cited
the Tok,o Shibaure lectric Com any which owes more than one hundred
million yen to the Govo nment, representing taxes already collected from
employees. He nointed out that up to November 1n47 withheld taxes were in
arrears by 14.3 billion yen end that such arrears are expected to amount
to thirty to forty billion yen. He feels that the Government must punish
large corcoretions which, beceuse of their financial difficulties, mis-
appropriste the taxes they collect.
In response to a question from the floor characterizing as
"dangerous" the determination by tax collectors of an individual'
ability to pay, Mr. Tokushima asserted that such a tendency was merely
an indication of the inequitable nature of Japan's tax collection system.
According
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
Knol. I. to
Tokyo's 91
Feb, 12,1948
-6
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
According to Mr. Tokushima, Mr. Vatanebe of the Tconomio Stabilisation
Board has remarked in a magasine article that business men would go
bankrupt were full taxes collected. Mr. Shevell asked by what right
tax collectors refuse to obey laws set uo by the Diet and Mr. Tokushimm
countered that economic collapse will ocour unless tax exemption levels
are rsised. Hr. Shavell emphamized that he feels that tax collectore
have no right to prevent the implementation of law. He argued that the
law muct work since it is e democretically passed lew of the Diet.
(This aroused laughter on the'part of members of the audienoe.) If the
law is unworkable, he said, it is the Diet's responsibility to alter it.
xr. Ikeda objected to the position taken by Mr. Tokushima. Ne
stat:d tht the rate is not too high and thet he hed never heard of a
prgon becomin bankruct on account of taxation. Rowever, he feels that
the tex rate upon annual inccmes up to 100, 000 yen mey be too high.
Asove that income level he feels the rate is not exorbitant. Mr.
Tokushims observed th:t in some systems collectors have assessed taxes upon
onl, on -helf of business men's actual income to prevent the latter! bank-
ruptcy.
Er. Crane steted that corporctions, in difficulties p to July 1947,
h ve countered even greater proolems since that period because the
feilur to provide wage controls in conjunction with the esteblishment of
new w  stendards and low official prices leaves no profits. In addition
he s id that the Japanese Gov rnment informed employers that they might not
use increased weges as an excuse for increased loans. He stated, with
confirmatioa from Kr. Hsrold, that the svorage wag in private industry
is hov : cr than 3. 00 yen per month. Only producers with excellent credit
ratings can borrow from official sources and black market loan ratem are
comple. ly unrepsoneble. (He stated that the Japanese Government is of-
ferin: bos underwriters lop interest and oaly 9 interest to the people
who itch-se the bonds.)
Mr. Crane alleged that business men must now sell a part of their
orolucts in the black market whioh has resulted in an apparent production
decrease from July to November. (He beileves thet prcduction has actually
incrcased.) Furthermore "prectical compromiscs" brtween business and
Gov mmont ere no longer possible. He announced thrt the Tokyo Tex Office
1s beginning to auction the property of Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company
which 1s ¥190,000,000 in arrear (approximately ¥110,000,000 misappropriated
taxes withheld from employees' salaries, and approximately *80,000,000 for
the non-war guffererst tax).
Kr. Shevell noted that sucn companies can and do borrow money to build
capital i rovements but refuse to borrow for taxes. He observed that sale
of sosr effiliated companies might have & good effect on present inflation-
ary tendencies. Returning to obstructive union tactics he remarked that,
in adsition to those elready mentioned, employees in the Osak area have
been working only five end one-half hours a day and have held mass meetings
on Government time. Furthermore, despite provisions of the law,lo of tax
employees in the Osalka ares are doing nothing but union work, and unions
are urging employees not to send out delinquency notioes until they receive
a "living wage". A
A Jo enese business man eaked if evasion of taxes by "nationals of
third countries" (Chinese end Koreans) is an important factor. Mr. Ikeda
described the difficulties involved in collecting texes from such
nationale
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
ncl. 1 to
Tokyo' 91
Feb. 12,1948
-7-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Uee Only)
nationels which has arisen because they have employed their exemptiom
from tne non-recurrin capitl levy tax as a precedent for domanding
exemption from all taxation. At present, he stated, no taxes have been
collected from such nationals. He observed that the Chinese Mission
nes asked instruction in the premises from the Chinese Government.
¿ueried as to the authority of the Chinese Mission or the Chinese Goverm
ment to interpret Ja anese law, he agreed that only the Ccoupation
authoritins nave the power to interpret or set aside Japanese law. How
ever, in prectice he felt that such a conclusicn cannot be supported, and
that collection of taxes from Chinese and Koreans is a physical impos-
sibility,
ith regard to his recommendation that land taxes be levied by
loce! covernrents, he suzgested that such taxes be assessed on e rental
valre, income from the respective owninge of land to provide the taxation
stanirrd. He stated thst en income tex on business is, in a sense, a
ro.  rt, trx, since businees income is the combined incone from assets
an) I bor. In addition, he vubmitted, a tex on farm income is a tax on
the con.bined income from lend nd laber.
C.NFILENTIAL

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DO
Tokyo, February 12, 1948.
o. 91
DIVISION OF
CONFIDENTIAL
NORTHEAST ASAN AFFAIRS
(For Department Use Only)
MARA11948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subjects Report Concerning Discussion of the Subject "Japanese
Tax Reform" at a Meeting of the Economic Study Couneil
of the Asiatic Society, January 15, 1948.
1948 FEB 27 AM 10 25
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
FE
DC/L
18
The Honorable
10:
The Secretary of State,
OV
Washington,
E=D
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of a report concerning a meeting
of the Economic Study Council of the Asiatic Society held on January
1TP
15, 1948 at which the subject "Japanese Tax Reform" was disoussed. As
may be gathered from the discussion (which is summarised at the be
ginning of the report) delinquency in payment of Japanese taxes presents
present rate of tax payment is not improved, the Japanese Government
must continue to finance its operations by inflationary deficit spending
OCD.
mothods. (From conversations with Japanese officials it appears that it
is impossible in any case to avoid some deficit spending in view of the
OFS
low rate of production and the cost to the Japanese economy of the
Occupation. The achievement of an apparently "balanced budget" is said
recf
to be a deception in as much as deficit spending continues through the
CS/A
Reconstruction Finance Corporation.)
There seemed to be general agreement among the participants in the
discussion that present Japanese corporate tax rates are too high and
should be altered. Mr. H. SHAvELL of the Finance Division of the
070-00
Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters also recommended
establishment of a more productive local tax system. In addition he
was obviously disturbed that tax collectors, who feel that tax rates
are much too high, have taken it upon themselves to make decisions con
cerning each individualts ability to pay. He asserted that the Tar Bew
form Law was democratically passed in the Diet and that any change te
be made therein is a responsibility of the Diet. This statement caused
CONFIDENTIAL
DOFA
Dist.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
Tekyots 91
Fob. 12,1948
COMFIDRETIAL (For Department Use Only)
ammsement on the part of his listeners since it is commonly believed
that thie Headquarters? recommendatione sre used by the Gevermment
to force most reform legisletion through the Diet. It is unlikely.
therefore, that popular dissatisfaction could lead to a statutory
change not favored by advisers of this Headquarters.
Mr. Shavell strongly criticized corporations such as the Tokye
Shibaura Electric Company which have misappropriated taxes withheld
from employees? salaries. He stated that withheld taxes were im ar
rears by 14.3 billion yen by November 1947.
As an example of this Headquarterst desire to encourage paymemt
2!
of taxes, there are enclosed five copies of an official Press mekease
1ssued on January 21, 1948 in which Mr. Shavell praises the Japemese
Ministry of Finence for initiating stringent measures against corpere-
tions which have misappropriated Government tar funds.
Respectfully yours,
Lomnace.
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosures:
1. Report concerning a meeting
of the Economic Study Group
of the Asiatic Society,
January 15, 1948.
2. Five copies of a General
Headquarters, FEC, Press Re-
lease, Jenuary 21, 1948,
concerning measures against
tax delinquent corporations.
Original and osalid to the Department
851.2
RHBushner: cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
PIAL
Enclooure Yo. 1 to Reegetah 
February 12, 1948 frem the efee
(For Department Use Only)
Uaited States Pelitieal Adviser fer
Tokyo, entitled "Report Cesssraing M
oussion of the Subjeet "Japemese Tam Me
Council of the Asiatic Sesiety. Jemensy
15, 1948."
SUBJECT:
Report Concerning Discussion of "Japanese Tax Roform"
at a Meeting of the Economic Study Council of the
Asiatic Society, January 15, 1948.
PLACE:
Tokyo Correspondents Club.
PARTICIPANTS:
Dr, AYUSAWA Iwae, Secretary-General, Office of the
Central Labor Committee, Chairman of the Ecomemie
Study Council, Asiatic Society.
Mr. J. R. HAROLD, official of the Labor Divisien,
Economic and Scientific Section, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, Secretary of the Econemie
Study Council, Asiatic Society.
Mr. H. SHAVELL, official in charge of taxation,
Finance Division, Economic and Scientific Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers,
Mr. IKEDA Hayato, Vice-minister of the Finanee
Ministry.
Mr. TOKUSHIMA Yonesaburo, Vice President of the
Tax Collectors' Union.
Mr. KANo Hisaaki, formerly Secretary-General of
the International Bank and adviser to the Yokohama
Specie Bank.
Mr. Burton CRaNE, Hew York Times correspondent.
Summary. Mr. Shavell described the revision made in
the Japanese tax system in March, 1947. He feels that
corporation tax rates should be lowered end that local tax-
ation methods should be placed on a more productive basis.
He also described the present high rate of delinqueney
in tax payment which he attributed to the unfamiliarity of
the public with self-assessment of income tares and opposition
to the collection of high taxes on the part of tar collectorst
unions. Mr. Ikeda attributed tax delinqueney to the failure of
the first trial of self-assessment, inefficiency of collection
agencies, and deterioration of public conscience. He related
the importance of complete tax collection to the solution of
the problem of deficit finance and its corresponding effect
upon the rehabilitation of the Japanese economy.
Mra Tokushimm
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
Bnel. 1 to
Tokyo's 91
Febraary 12,1948
-2
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Mr. Tokushima criticised tax legislation as a mass of
patch-work changes and complained of insufficient appre-
priations for tar collecting expenses. He characterized present
tax rates as exorbitant and asserted that, in order to avoid
throwing business men into bankruptcy, tax collectors have taken
it upon themselves to determine individual ability to pay.
Mr. Crane stated that high tax rates are discouraging
legitimate business. He feels that tax levels, taken in
conjunction with new wage standards and low official
prices, leave business men no profits.
Mr. Shavell described as a major factor in tax delinquency
the misappropriation by certain corporations of taxes withheld
from employees' salaries. He strongly censured Mr. Tokushime
and other tax collectors for taking the liberty of determiming
the individual taxpayer's ability to pay.
In response to a question Mr. Ikeda stated that it is
physically impossible to collect taxes from "third country
nationals" (a Japanese phrase commonly used to describe Chimese
and Koreans) who have refused to pay all taxes on the basis of
the precedent set by exemption of Allied nationals from the mon
recurring capital levy.
End of Summery.
The Chairman of the Asiatic Society Economic Study Council, Dr.
AYUSAWA Iwao presided at the meeting and the Secretary of the Council.
Mr. J. R. HAROLD presented the first speaker, Mr. SHAVELL, who intro-
duced the subject for discussion, "Japanese Tax Reform".
Hr. Shavell: The Japanese tax system up to March 1947 was based
upon a tax law of April 1940 which chenged tex laws of the Neiji period
as follows:
One, income tar was given great weight; two, a second
corporetion tax replaced the corporation income tax; three,
local tax powers were diminished; four, the system of re-
distribution of taxes by the National Government to the
local Governments was strengthened.
The physical inadequacies of the tax system, as revised in 1940
became evident following the end of the war. Income from monopolies
of the Japanese Government failed to keep up with expenditures. In
flation resulted in discrimination against salaried workers since their
wages were immediately subject to taxation whereas other tar payers had
a period of from seven months to a year before payment was due (a delay
making possible payment in inflated currency). Furthermore, assessment
of incomes was fraught with collusion because locally elected committees,
whose members were sponsored by vested interests, were often subject to
bribery.
Therefore,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
mel,1 to
Tekyoss 91
Feb.12,1948
3
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Therefore, a reform tax law was passed in March 1947 and beceme
offective in April 1947. Under this law the following changes were
made; self-assessment was substituted for governmental assessments.
a single progressive income scale replaced varied income tax
schedules; a corporate income tax was added; the excessive profits
tax was lowered; luury taxes were increased; and taxes on necessities
were lowered.
However, Japanese tax collection is far behind schedule. Taxes
at present uncollected amount to 94,000,000,000. Some of the reasems
for tax delinquencies seem to be laxity of government administration.
1gnorance on the part of the public, and labor unrest im tax offiees.
For example, tax collectors will not prosecute tax delinquents and
collect only small sums as penalties. In addition they will mot attash
and sell property belonging to delinquents and, despite the mumber of
delinquencies, there has been in all Japan not one person convieted ef
tax evasion. The fact that early tax publicity was poor is not a saf-
ficient excuse for the failure of the public to accept responsibility
for tax payment. With regard to labor unrest, tax employees have rew
sorted to a slow-down campaign. Assessment and re-assessment notiees
have not been despatched, on the grounds that employees are not paid
a "living wage". Placards have been posted in tax offices informing
the public that it should not comply with such an "inequitable tax
system". However, labor obstruction has been remedied in part and
there are few such cases at present.
Under the new tax law, administrative measures have been improved.
There is broader selection and a single progressive income tax schedule.
Some have criticised as premature the adoption of the self-assessment
method of tax reporting but retention of "disinterested" lecal assess
ment committees would have been a continuing source of injustice. Hew-
ever, it will take from five to ten years to fudge the suoeess of the
new method and in the interim universal government re-assessments will
be necessary.
There appears to be little need for further statutory change ezeept
for the addition of a corporation tax to be levied by the National Gevern-
ment, and employment of more productive local taxes. Corporation taxes at
present are discriminatory, as they are levied on the basis of a rasie
of dead earnings to total invested capital. In addition corporatiom taxes
are exorbitant and prevent industrial recovery. Another objectionable
feature is that the National Government now carries the burden of 60 per
cent of the cost of local finances, A real property tax offers one field
for additional local taxation although there is a great deal of opposition
to such a tax. There can also be further administrative reform since
reforms on paper have not been effected in practice. For example, on ao-
count of lax enforcement measures, arrears are equal to budgetary defi-
ciencies.
Hr. Ikedai (Mr. Kano translated). The greatest problem of the
Japanese Government at present is rehabilitation of the Japanese ecomomy:
a sound finance must be established if that problem is to be solved. To
that end it is necessary to balance the budget by seeking a sure souree
of revenue.
Upon
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Bncl. 1 to
Tokyoss 91
Feb.12,1948
COMFIDEYTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Upon the basis of the budget, total anticipated expenditure this
year is x134,800,000,000. In connection with this year's budget,
anticipated principal tax revenues are:
¥68,500,000,000 from income taxes.
6,300,000,000 from corporation taxes.
23,800,000,000 from a tax on alcoholic beverages.
7,800,000,000 from commodity taxes,
6,500,000,000 from a theatre admiss1on tax.
6,500,000,000 from a tax on non-sufferers of war damage.
The Government is doing its utmost to balance the budget but healtky
finance depends uvon full collection of anticipated tax revenues. However,
tax collection has been exceedingly unsatisfactory and delinquency at the
end of the period from April to December 1947 amounted to 10,000,000,000.
One of the reasons for such delinquency is the failure of the first
triel of self-assessment which has been only twenty percent of Govermment
expectations. In addition delinquencies are increasing, partly on account
of the inefficiency of collection agencies and partly because of the
deterioration of public conscience.
The present tax system has presented upprecedented problems. It is
of primary importance to publicize the necessity for tax paymeat. Ome of
the problems of the future is rationalisation of the tax system sincs an
increase in yen income does not mean corresponding increase in real earm
ings. In addition adjustments in family allowances are necessary and
production must be fostered to increase revenues from indirect tazes.
Dra Ayuseye: The third speaker is Mr. TOKUSHINA Yonesabure, Vice
President of the Tax Collectors Union.
Thirty thousand tax collectors are employed by the Finance Winistry,
twenty-three percent of whom aro girls paid on the basis of the eighteen
hundred yen monthly base wage level. The Tax Collectors Union is said to
have a membership of 4,500.
Hre Tokushime (Mr. Kano interpreted): I agree with Mr. Ikoda that
Japanese tax revenues are in a critical position. This is because of
patch-work changes resulting from superficial thinking on the part of
Government officials and members of the Diet. In the book "Japan's
Finances" written before the war, Dr. Molton said that the expense of
collecting taxes in Japan was very small in comparison to army and navy
erpenditures, so small that efficient collection would seem impossible.
The Japanese people, like other Asiatic people, do not understand the
meaning of love or duty, or conscience. That people should obey without
understanding is accepted practice in Japan but it is impossible to obtain
success in tax revision without first building a foundation in the minds of
the people. Because of the Japanese habit of submitting all matters for
decision to Government officials it is difficult to awaken people to the
real meaning of taxation.
At presens it is the honest people who suffer, and who, on account
of correct assessment of their taxes, must sell their belongings so that
they can pay. Nevertheless, tax evaders are comfortable. I know of
several individuals in Tokyo who earn between sixty and one hundred
million
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmel,1 to
-5-
Fob.12,1948
CONPIDMITILAL (For Department Use Only)
million yen a year whose tax delinquency is unchecked becsnse ef iaeffi-
ciency and lack of personnel in tax offices.
Wage and salary earners face great difficulties. According to
investigations, persons earning 4,200 yen a month pay 15.9 pereeat ef
their wages as taxes and persons earning 3,600 yen per month pay 13.6
percent as taxes. A laborer in the United States (with a wife and child)
earning $50 a week pays only 3.8 percent of his wages in taxes. Japamese
laborers cannot live on their wages and must sell property to make up a
deficiency amounting to between five and six handred yen a month. Unless
justice is achieved the people will become extremely dissatisfied becaase
they see that the new-rich evade taxes. In Japan enterprisers do net
correctly assess their incomes and, because there is no public accountant
system, the whole burden of assessment falls upon the tax collectors.
Since collectors are now requiring payment in accordance with their owm
estimates as to individual ability to pay, a reduction in the rate of
taxation would not lessen revenue. In any event, revenues cannot be in
creased until persons are found who can pay increased taxes. However,
union members are doing their utmost to insure increased collections and
to fight inflation. The tax system should be revised, inspection of tax
payerst books by tax collectors should be legalized and greater funds
should be allotted for tax collection purposes.
The meeting was then opened for general discussion by Mr. Burton
CRANE, New York Times correspondent, who asserted that double taxatiom
of corporate income makes business revival in Japan impossible. In the
United States, he said, there is 495 percent double taxation in the lowest
brackets whereas in Japan there is 68 percent double taxation in the
lowest brackets. He feels that this encourages black market loans in un-
recorded business deals in an effort to avoid taxation. For that reason
he asked if more reasonable tax would not provide greater revenue. Mr.
Shevell agreed that it would and stated that the Government would gain by
basing the corporation tax system on invested capital from whatever souree
obtained. Some taxes giving small returns might be abolished.
Mr. Shavell noted that fermers have been exempt from withholding
taxes and will be required to pay taxes under the new tax law for the
first time this month. The sum of eighteen billion yen collected up to
the present represents a tax paid only by wege earners.
Mr. Shavell pointed out that a large amount of taxes withheld from
wage earners' salaries have been misappropriated by employers and cited
the Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company which owes more than one hundred
million yen to the Government, representing taxes already collected from
employees. He pointed out that up to November 1947 withheld taxes were in
arrears by l4.3 billion yen and that such arrears are expected to amount
to thirty to forty billion yen. He feels that the Government must punish
large corporations which, because of their financial difficulties, mis-
appropriate the taxes they collect.
In response to a question from the floor characterizing as
"dangerous" the determination by tax collectors of an individualts
ability to pay, Mr. Tokushima asserted that such a tendency was merely
an indication of the inequitable nature of Japan's tax collection system,
According
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Fob. 1z.1948
COMPIDTIAL (For Department Use Only)
According to Mr. Tokmshima, Mr. Watanabe of the Economic Stabilimatiom
Board has remarked in a magasine article that business men would go
bankrupt were full taxes collected. Mr. Shavell asked by what right
tax collectors refuse to obey laws set up by the Diet and Mr. Tokashima
countered that economic collapse will occur unless tar exemption levels
are raised. Mr. Shavell emphasized that he feele that tax collecters
have no right to prevent the implementation of law. He argued that the
law must work since it is a democratically passed law of the Diet.
(This aroused lamghter on the part of members of the audienee.) If the
law is unworkable, he said, it is the Diet's responsibility to alter it.
Mr. Ikeda objected to the position taken by Mr. Tokushima. He
stated thet the rate is not too high and that he had never heard of a
person becoming bankrupt on account of taxation. However, he feels that
the tax rate upon annual incomes up to 100,000 yen may be too high.
Above that income level he feels the rate is not exorbitant. Mr.
Tokushima observed that in some systems ccllectors have assessed taxes upon
only one-half of business men's actual income to prevent the latterts bamk
ruptey.
Mr. Crane stated that corporations, in difficultiom: up to July 1947,
have encountered even greater problems since that period because the
failure to provide wage controls in conjunction with the establishment of
new wage stendards and low official prices leaves no profits. In addition
he said that the Japanese Government informed employers that they might not
use increased wages as an excuse for increased loans. He stated, with
confirmation from Mr. Harold, that the average wage in private industry
is now more than 3,000 yen per month. Only producers with excellent credit
ratings can borrow from official sources and black market loan rates are
completely unreasonable. (He stated that the Japanese Government is of-
fering bond underwriters 10% interest and only 9% interest to the people
who purchase the bonds.)
Mr. Crane alleged that business men must now sell a part of their
products in the black market which has resulted in an apparent production
decrease from July to November, (He believes that production has actually
increased.) Furthermore "practical"compromises" between business and
Government are no longer possible. He announced that the Tokyo Tax Office
is beginning to auction the property of Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company
which 1s *190,000,000 in arrears (approximately *110,000,000 misappropriated
taxes withheld from employeest salaries, and approximately ¥80,000,000 for
the non-war sufferers' tax).
Mr. Shavell noted that such companies can and do borrow money to build
capital improvements but refuse to borrow for taxes. He observed that sale
of some affiliated companies might have a good effect on present inflation-
ary tendencies. Returning to obstructive union tactics he remarked that,
in addition to those already mentioned, employees in the Osak area have
been working only five and one-half hours a day and have held mass meetings
on Government time. Furthermore, despite provisions of the law,l0% of tax
employees in the Osaka area are doing nothing but union work, and unions
are urging employees not to send out delinquency notices until they receive
a "living wage".
▲ Japanese business man asked if evasion of taxes by "nationals of
third countries" (Chinese and Koreans) is an important factor. Mr. Ikeda
described the diffioulties involved in collecting taxes from such
mtionale
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
mei. 1 to
Tekyote 91
Fob. 12,1948
-7-
COMIDNTIAL (For Department Use Only)
nationals :which has arisen because they have employed their exempties
from the non-recurring capital levy tax as a precedent for demaading
exemption from all taxation. At present, he stated, no tames heve beem
collected from such nationals. He observed that the Chimese Missiem
has asked instruction in the premises from the Chinese Govermmemt.
Queried as to the authority of the Chinese Mission or the Chimese Goverme
ment to interpret Japanese law, he agreed that only the Ocoupatiem
authorities have the power to interpret or set aside Japamese lase ew
ever, in practice he felt that such a conclusion cannet be supperted. mé
that collection of taxes from Chinese and Koreans is a physical impese
sibility.
With regard to his recommendation that land taxes be levied by
local governments, he suggested that such taxes be assessed on a remtal
value, income from the respective ownings of land to provide the taxatiem
standard. He stated that an income tax on business is. in a semse, a
property tax, since business income is the combined income frem assets
and labor. In addition, he submitted, a tax on farm income is a taz en
the combined income from land and labor.
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMNAND
Public Information Office
Press Release:
1330
21 January 19
ALERT UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS NEEDED TO FOSTER
ACADEMIC FREEDOM IN JAPAN. SCAP OFFICIAL DECLARES
A vigilant national organization of university professors in
Japan--with strong local chapters--will provide this country with
one of its best protections for academic freedom, a SCAp education
official declared today in commenting on the current membership
drive of the University Professors' Association of Japan.
The Association, organized since the war and now more than
2,500 strong, is seeking to enlist all qualified professors in
Jepan as members. Professors, assistant professors and lecturers
in accredited institutions, with more than two years' teaching
experience, are eligible to join. Forty-three colleges and univer-
sities are now represented in the Association.
"Japan offers a ripe field for such an organization," the
SCAP official said. "The barriers formerly imposed on the
universities by the official Shinto mythology and militaristic
government, severely handicapped the academic ideal of freedom of
teaching and research.
"No broad research in archeology, anthropology, history,
government, economics or sociology could be carried to its ultimate
conclusions in public print because academic liberty was stifled
in Japan."
The SCAP official said the battle for this freedom still
is being fought in many countries. "Japan," he added,"with the
unusual advantage of having a specific constitutional reference to
academic freedom is legally ahead of other countries where
acquisition of this freedom has taken years of struggle."
A strongly-worded resolution was passed by the Association
recently calling for establishment of faculty meetings, or
councils, to give professors some voice in school administration,
the official said. This resolution, which implements academic
freedom requirements of the School Éducation Law, promises
"appropriate action" against institutions which show "flagrant
disregard" for rights of professors to voice their opinions in
administrative matters involving their teaching and research.
Dr. Shigeru Nambara, president of Tokyo University, is
president of the professors' association.
-0-
SCAP TAXATION OFFICIAL COMENDS DRIVE AGAINST
TAX DELINQUENT CORPORATIONS
A SCAP taxation official today commended the Japanese Ministry
of Finance for initiating a nationwide "crackdown" on corporatior
who have misappropriated government tax funds.
(more)
(over)

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Henry Shavell, taxation advisor, Finance Division
Economic and Scientific Section, said the drive, aimed at
payers delinquent one million yen or more, will affeet 450
corporations who owe the government approximately three billt
yen.
Describing the drive as the most sweeping campaign against
large tax delinquents ever undertaken in Japan, Mr. Shavell
praised the "swift government action" last Saturday in attaching
properties of 200 corporations in the Tokyo area.
Similar action was taken Monday against 63 corporations in
the Osaka area and action against the remainder of the corporatlons
will be taken by the end of the month, the SCAP official declared.
In addition, he said, the Japanese Government has ordered
the country's principal delinquent corporation, Tokyo Shibaura
Electric Co., to complete payment of 239.3 million yen in back
commodity,. income and other taxes by Feb. 15.
The Finance Ministry has further indicated it will attach
the company's property if the deadline 1s not met, and will.sell
at auction enough of its 30-odd subsidiaries to meet the tax bill,
Mr. Shavell said.
Production Will Not Be Impeded
In all cases, he added, the Japanese Government will initiate
attachment proceedings, giving a period of 30 to 60 days before
taking action to auction off corporate assets.
"Even though these measures may bring changes in ownership,
production will not be impeded," Ir. Shavell explained. "In
cases of essential. industries, the Finance linistry will insure
that operation is not affected during ownership changes. However,
no such considerations are plannad for night.clubs, movie houses
and other forms of non-essential industries."
:Mr. Shavell said corporations who have not peid: to the
government income taxes withheld from employees wages and commodity
tax receipts also'face a 36.5 per cent interest rate on such
taxes.in arrears.
"Such enforcement action may come as a shock to the public,
but it is taken as a metter of course in other countries," the
tax advisor said. "Such action is long overdue in  Japan."
He added that action against all tax delinquents must be
continued not only as a public duty and an anti-inflation
measure, but to help balance the national budget. He said if
the estimated 20 billion yen in tax delinquencies at the end of
Fecember had been collected, the rate of collections nearly.
would have attained the Ievel estimated in the budget of the
current fiscal year.
Mr. Shavell said corporations incurred their huge deficits
by not paying admission, commodity and personal income taxes
collected by the firms-but not paid to the treasury, making them
technically guilty of misappropriation of government funds.
In the case of the Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., the Japanese
Government reported, the corporation used for its own business
120.2 million yen of income taxes collected from employees and
not turned over to the government, plus an additional 63.3
million yen in commodity taxes. Its total deficit of 239.3
million yen does not include 140 million yen of wer indemnity
-2-

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
taxes owed the government.
Also included anong corporations nemed in attachment prosoed-
ings are Japan Columbia Records Co., Dai Ichi Cinema, Japan Stoel
Co., Toa Fire and Marine Insurance, Toshiba Electric Co., Nippon
Silk Manufacturing Co., Shiseido Co., Inc., Fuji Industrial Co.,
Tokyo Meter Manufacturing Co., Mitsubishi Electric Co., Empress
Bed. Co., and Dai Nippon Watch Co.
-.0-
COLÓNEL HORSFALL ASSUMES DUTIES AS KOBE BASE SURGEON
WITH THE EIGHTH ARMY IN KOBE--Col. George Horsfall, Cove,
Oreg., has arrived at Kobe Base to assume his duties as Base
Surgeon and Commanding Officer of the 4O7th Medical Dispensary.
Colonel Horsfall, who served 19 months in the C.B.I. Theatre
during Worlc War II, was Commanding Officer of the Station Hospital
at New Cumberland, Pa., General Depot, before departing for Kobe.
Lt. Col. Marion T. Sanders, formerly stationed at the New
York Port of Embarkation as Post Quartermaster, also arrived at
Kobe Base and was assigned to Kobe Qi Depot.
-0-
GENERAL LESTFF TO REVIEW 1ST CAVALRY TROOPS SATURDAY
WITH THE FIGHTH ARMY IN TOKYO--MaJ. Gen. J. A. Lester
Chief of Staff to Lt. Gen. Robert L. Eichelberger, Commanding
General of the Eighth Army, will review lst.Cavalry troops
at Camp Drake, Saturday morning.
With Maj. Gen. William C. Chase, Corranding General of the
1st Cavalry Division, General Lester will "troop the line" aboard
an armored car.
The review will also honor 2d Lt. William F. Koeckert, 10321
Ashbury Ave., Cleveland, Ohio, who will receive the Bronze Star
Medal for gallantry in action in the European Theater. Lieutenant
Koeckert is an officer of the 1st Squadron of the 5th Cavalry
Fegiment. During World War II he served with the 94th Infantry
Division.
Lt. Col. John F. Riley, Danville, Va., Headquarters
Commandant of the Division, will be the Commander of Troops
in the review.
The first provisional squadron, consisting of troops of the
8th Engineer. Squadron, 15th Quartermaster Troop and the 27th
Ordnance Co., will be led by Lt. Col. Marvin C. Ellison, Danville,
Va., Commander of the 8th Engineers. Mai.Shirley S. Cook,
Celorado City, Texas., will corrand the second provisional
squadron, made up of troops of the 1st Signal Troop, Military
Police Platocn, ist Medical. Squadron and the 1st Cavalry Head-
quarters troops.
-0-
-3
(over)

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
ALERICAN MINE OFFICIAL ARRIVES TO ADVISE
JAPANESE ON MINE SAFETY CODE
Russell G. Warncke, United States Bureau of Mines safety
official, arrived in Tokyo by air yesterday from Washington to
act as advisor to Japanese officials on the formulation of a mine
safety code to help reduce the high fatality rate in Japanese
rines, SCAP's Natural Resources Section announced today.
Mr. Warncke, a mining engineer and mine inspector from the
office of the chief of the Health and Safety Division of the
Bureau, will serve in Japen for 90 days as consultant to the NRS
Mining and Geology Division.
He will advise the Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, which are now engaged in drafting a safety
code to provide an inspection service for Japanese metal and coal
mines.
In this task, Mr. Warncke will work with Charles C. Hicks,
assistant to the vice president  of the United Mine Workers of
America, who is serving in SCAP's Labor Division as a consultant
on coal mining problems.
An average of 20 men are killed and more then 1,100 are
injured weekly in Japanese mines, NRS officials said. "Besides
the loss of human life, the number of mine accidents in Japan
have seriously impaired coal production and adversely affected
the Japanese economy," they added.
Mr. Warncke will leave Tokyo Feb. 4 with a party of SCAP
officials for an inspection trip to the Hitachi copper mine in
Ibaragi prefecture and the Joban coal fields in Fukushima prefec-
ture. He later will visit coal mines in Hokkaido and Kyushu,
paying particular attention to faulty ventilation facilities which,
NKS officials say, have caused a number of mine explosions in this
country.
A graduate of the Pennsylvania State College School of Mines,
the consultant has served the U. S. Bureau of Mines for seven
years, administering a safety education program and seeking com-
pliance with federal safety codes in mines all over the U. S.
Previously, he was a mining engineer with a private concern in
New Mexico. Mr. Warncke's home is at 4812 Western Ave., Chevy
Chase, Md.
-0-
CAPTAIN MCINTYRE NAMED ASSISTANT FEC EDUCATION OFFICER
Capt. Niles J. McIntyre, Napa, Calif., has joined the GHQ
Troop Information and Education Section as assistant Theatre
Education Officer, it was announced today. A veteran of the
Asiatic-Pacific campaigns fought on Luzon, Philippine Islands,
Captain McIntyre was graduated from the Army Information School,
Carlisle Barracks, Pa., prior to coming to the Far East Command.
Entering the service at Fort Riley, Kans., in 1938, Captain
McIntyre was commissioned a second lieutenant upon completing
Officers Candidate School at Ft. Knox, Ky., in 1942. He has
served with the 9th Armored Division and the 82d Infantry Training
Battalion, and has had tours of duty as operations officer at
the Armored Replacement Center, Ft. Knox, and as legal officer with
the 25th Regimental Combat Team at Ft. Benning, Ga.
(more)
-4-

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
"Captain McIntyre attended the Jefferson School of Law at
Louisville, Ky., and alsc Kansas Wesleyan University, Salina,
end the University of Kentucky in Lexington.
Captain McIntyre is the son of Mrs. Maude McIntyre, 1518
Highland, Salina, Kans. His wife and their four children, Charles,
16; Mary Jo, 6; Kathleen, 4; and one-year-old Donne, are residing
at 309 Wake-Shipyard Acres, Napa, Calif. Captain McIntyre is the
son-in-law of Mr. and Mrs. Ray H. Miller, 443 Brown Street, Napa,
California.
-0-
TEXAN AWARDED BRONZE STAR MEDAL BY GENERAL TANSEY
Sgt. Burlin L. Keaton, Mercedes, Tex., was awarded the
Bronze Star Medal today by Brig. Gen. Patrick H. Tansey, SCAP's
Civil Property Custodian, for "exemplary conduct in ground combat
against the enemy" curing the "Battle of thc Bulge" three years
ago.
At the time of the action Sergeant Keaton was cited for, he
was serving in the 2lst Armored Infantry Bn., commanded by Maj.
Patrick H. Tansey, Jr., son of General Tansey. Sergeant Keaton
is now serving under General Tansey in the CPC section.
-0-
SCAP AUTHORIZES REESTABLISHMENT OF TELEGRAPH DEPOSIT SYSTEM
SCAP has cuthorized the Japanese Ministry of Communications
to re-establish its deposit system allowing payment of international
telegraph charges on a ronthly basis. The service, which will be
placed in operation immcdiately, is aveilable to business firms
and thc general public in Tokyo.
Indivicduals or organizations using this system will deposit
with the Ministry of Comrunications at the Tokyo Central
Telegraph Office a sum sufficient to cover telegraph charges for
the month. Deposits may be made in Military Payment Certificates,
Foreign Trade Pryment Certificates, British Armed Forces Special
Vouchers or Jrponese yen.
Each epositor will be furnished a book in which the
arount deposited is crecited. As telegrams are filed, charges
will be ceductec from the credit.
This system, which wrs widely used in Japan before the wer,
has certain advantages over the charge account system employed
by telegraph companies in the United States, CCS officiais noted.
It elirinates coilection procedures and the cccumulrtion of un-
collectable accounts.
-0-
PRESIDENT POLK DEPARTS FOF SHANGHAI
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH ARMY, YOKOHAMA--Fifty passengers, making a
globe-encircling voyage aboard the American President Lines'
President Polk, yesterday made a five hour tour of the Tokyo-
Yokohama area prior to ceparting this morning at 7a.m.for Shanghai,
President Lines officials announced.
The passengersboardedthree special sightsceing buses at 1 p.m.
yesterday and completed the trip at 6 p.m. The tour took in
Tokyo's Ginza shopping cistrict, the International Military Tribunal
for the Far East, and other places'of interest.
(more)
(over)
-5

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
The Polk arrived at Yokohama Monday morning fro
-0
NEW JUMP CLASS STARTS IN 1ITH AIRBORNE DIVISION
WITH THE FIGHTH ARLY IN CAMP CRAWFORD--A new.JumP ©las
composed of men who have volunteered to jump from a plane 
feet in the air, cruising along at a speed of about two miy
minute, opened this week at the llth Airborne Division trainia
center, Matsushima Army Air Base.
In the first week of training, the men will begin each day
with a brisk run and generous amounts of shaping-up exercises.
They also start classes to simulate actual jumping experiences.
Each man gets explicit instructions on each phase of jumping
before donning a chute and entering a C-46 for his first jump.
In the second week, training is put into practice With the
completion of five treining jumps the men gain their wings and
jump boot rights.
After returning to their originel outfits, these now qual-
ified troopers will begin jumping once every three months for
fifty dollars extra per month as jump pay, and may, intermittent-
ly, make a few tactical jumps.
-0

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADV
1948
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTME STAE
De
Tokyo, February 14. 1948.
No. 102
UNCLASSIFIED
1948 FEB 27 AM
DEPARTMEN
PM 3 35
RRANCH
M
CF
Military Government Surveillance of Japanese
948 FEB
Administration.
A
7LH
1/
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose four
copies of Operational Directive No. 4, dated January 21, 1948
(together with enclosures thereto) issued by Headquarters, United
States Eighth Army, concerning surveillance of the Japanese tax
administration. This directive is a part of a general effort to
ACTICH
reduce Japanese tax delinquency which has reached serious pro-
portions (this Mission's despatches No. 1486, December 30, 1947,
COPILS
Concerning a conversation with Mr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy Direetor
TO:
General of the Economic Stabilization Board, and No. 91, dated
February 12, 1948, "Report Concerning Discussion of the Subjeet
'Japanese Tax Reform? at a Meeting of the Economic Study Council
of the Asiatic Society, January 15, 1948").
ED
It is pointed out in the directive that, since delinqueney in
LE
tar payment has a general inflationary effect, immediate remedial
action is necessary on the part of the Japanese Government, in con-
junction with active surveillance by Military Government personnel
and special tax surveillance teams. Surveillance is to be direeted
UNA
particularly toward the administration of the personal income tax
of which the potential revenue deficit is said to exceed that of all
other national texes combined.
AS
 "VThe first enclosure to the directive is an explanatory study and
contains comment on the importance of complete payment of taxes.
OCP.
There is set forth a description of the Japanese tax system and of the
organisation of tax agencies. Factors cited as contributing to tax
delinquency are: unfamiliarity on the part of taxpayers with the newly
OFS
neek
established system of self-assessed income tares; and oppositiom to the
tax system on the part of tax collectors. Leaders of the National Tax
Workerst Union are said to have been instructed by the Chief of the
Labor Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of thie Head
are unlawful and damaging to the national interest. It is intimated
that disciplinary action may be taken by the Japanese Government if
he
slow-down activities continue. According to an item appearing in the
2/
Nippon Times of February 3, 1948 (five copies of which are enclosed),
Netional Tax Workerst Union which, on Jammary 20, 1948, metifted mem
bere of the local branches that it Is thoir duty to potlect and assess
taxes in accordance with the law.
Rev.I
UNCLASSIFIED
Oat.
Dist.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
The second, third and fourth enclosures to the direetive
respectively, a list of local tax offices, an estimate of resemse
goals), and an organisational éhart of Japanese tax agensies.
1. Operational Directive
No. 4, January 21, 1948,
issued by Headquarters,
United States Eighth Army,
(4 copies).
2. Excerpt from Nippon Times,
February 3, 1948 (2 copies)
851.2
RHBushner:cs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
Zo. 1 to Dospateh No. 10s dated Pebreary 1
Sarveitlamee of Japanese Tax Administration?..
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH ARMY
United States Army
Office of the Commanding General
APO 343
21 January 1948
C-O-R-R-E-C-T-I-O-N
Atta crd Orerational Directive, subject: "Surveillance of Japanese
1o is eretional Directive Number 4
A.. HALTON
Ma jor, AGD
Ass't Adj Gen

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH ARMY
United States Army
Office of the Commanding Geberal
APO 343
21 January 1948
OPERATTONAL DIHECTTVE
NUMBER
.2)
SURVEILLANCE OF JAPANESE TAX ADMINISTRATION
1. The maintenance of adequate tax revenue by the Japanese
Government is at present a matter of vital conoern to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers. To the extent that Japanese
Government expenditures are not financed with tax and other
revenues, the present inflation will be aggravated. With the
prospect that current fiscal year tax receipts may fall con-
s1derably behind budget estimates and thereby unleash added
1nflationary pressures, immediate action by the Japanese Govern-
ment with attendant active surveillance by military government
personnel becomes necessary. Instructions have been issued
relative to aditional surveillance teams to supnlement
military government units in this work.
2. Military government surveillance of Japanese tax
collections will be limited initially to the 450 local tax
offices of the national government, as l1sted 1n inclosure
2, and will not be extended at this time to cover tax offices
of municipalities or prefectures. Major emphasis should be
placed on the administration of the personal income tax,
as the potential revenue deficit in this tax is believed to
exceed that of all other national taxes combined. The ex-
tent of surveillance required and other information relevant
to tax surveillance are contained in inclosure 1 attached.
3. As tax collection goals and quotas have already been
distributed to the Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Hiroshima, Takamatsu,
Kumamoto, Sannoro, and Senda1 Regional Financial Bureaus,
surveillance shouid be initiated as early as possible.. Monthly
reports as prescribed in inclosure 1 will'be submitted on
the last day of the month for January, February, Maroh, and
April 1948. It is desired that reports (Reports Control

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
Bymbol MG-13) be submitted to Commanding General
Army, Attention: Military Government Section, APo
reach this headquarters in triplicate not later than
day of the month following the month reported upon
BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL EICHELBERGER:
J. A. LESTER
jchany
Major General, GSC
Chief of Staff
OFFICIAL:
SCHAUZE
G-1
4 Incls.
1. MG Surveillance of
Tax Administration
2. List of Tax Offices
3. Estimate of Revenue (tax goals)
4. Chart of Tax Organizations
DISTRIBUTION: Z plus
I Corps
50
IX Corps
50
BCOF
20
Each MG unit
8
MG Section
100
(Special Priority Distribution)
2

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
SUBJECT: ilitery Government Surveill nce of Japanese Tax Administretio
A. Nature of Problem:
1. Jspunese tax collection levels have lagged far behind budget
estimates. Actuel tex receipts for the first seven months (April-Ootober
1947) of the 1947-48 fisca1 year heve amounted to 32.8 billion yen, es
&gainst budget tex revenue estimates eggregating 133.9 biilion yen for the
fiscal yeer.
2. Gererel Heedquertcrs, Suprene Commender for the Allied Powers, is
vitslly concerned in the maintenance of ©dequetc tax revenues for the Jepanese
Government. With the prospect thet current fiscel yerr tex receipts may
fell considerably bebandbudget estimetes, end thereby unleash edded in-
fletionary pressures, immediate cction by both the Jepanese Govermment
end militery occupetion forces becomes necessnry.
3. Inefficiencies end irresponsible cctivities of trx colleotors
cre chiefly responsiblc for the significant leg in tex collecticns. Many
tex officit ls heve not only been negligent in fulfilling their normel
duties, but hrve rdopted tactics designed to discourege collection of
texes: These trctics heve tr.ken the fon of:
. Henging posters on tex office wells condemning the gonert1
tex system &nd imploring the public not to pey taxes.
b. Refusing to conply with orders of superior officicls to
eudit returns, reessess toxpeyers' incomes, tnd to carry out ..enforcoment
provisions of the trx lcws.
c. Steging lengthy labor union meetings during office hours.
B. . Neture of J. p:nesc Tex Administrction.
4. The highest echelon of tex suthority is reprosented by the
Taxction Bureeu of the Ministry of Finance. Eight Regionci Finencirl
Burecus constitute the next lower echelon (see inclosure 4). Tlisso eight
region: 1 burer us, ecch covering designated t recs within the nation, provide
liaison service between the Texation Buretu in Tokyo and local tax offices
in the field. Actual tax operttion is rccomplished by 450 loct1 field
offices (see inclosures 2 nd 4)
5. A superintendent, generally of second cltss civil service
renk, is in cherge of eech locrl tex office. Tax offices are divided
into three sections; & Direct Tax Section, Indircct Tex Section, rnd
Genem l Affeirs Scction.
Inclosure 1 to OD 2 , Hecdquarters Eighth Amy, 21 January 1948
Dr te

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
6. The Direct Tax Section is generclly the lurgest Fnd most
importtnt, 's it is responsible for ndministrttion of the persomal
Income Ttx, Corporution Trx, Esttte cnd Gift Tex, and for special mon
recurrent tcxes such es the Inoretsed Income and Non-War Sufferers.
Special texes. The cverege personnelstrength of this Seotion is
epproximetely 60.
7. The Indirect Tnx Section is usut lly smallest of the three
in personnel strength. This Seotion de.ls with the edministration of
liquor, beer (nd seke taxes, Commodity Tex, Admission Tax, Strmp Trxes,
Peri-nutuel Tax, Sug r Excise, Textile Exoise tnd miseelleneous minor
toxes. Avertge personnel strength: 10.
8. The Geneml Affrirs Section is principtlly conoemed with
mrinteining collection records, mriling of trx (ssessment notices, and
preporetion of collection reports. Average personnel strength: 25.
9. It is noteworthy tht trx pryments εre not m:de directly
to the tex offices. .Pryments re mrde usually to br nch offices cnd
agencies of the Bank of J: pin, :nd to r lesser extent to post offices.
When p yments cre received, one receipt is given to the texpcyer, a
duplic: te is trrnsmitted to the tcx office making the cssessment, ind
n triplicate copy retrined by the bunk or post office receiving pryment.
10: Salient chcrocteristics of the present Jepnese trxction
systen cre ns follows:
c. The personel Income Tax is given recognition fs the
bosic revenue producer. The second most productive trx is the Liquor,
Beer and Soke Tex. Other texes in the order of importrnce for this
fiscal yeer &re: Incrensod Income Trx, Commodity Tex, Non-War Sufferers
Special Tex, Admission Tax, Corporrtion Tex, End verious minor taxes.
Budget tex revenues end notuc1 collections through October 1947 were
es follows:
Actuel Colleotions
1947-48 Budget
(April-October 1947) Estimtes
(billion yen)
Income Tax: Total
15.0
68.5
Withheld ot Source
10.8
19.3
Not withheld rt Source
4.2
49.2
Liquor Tex
5.6
23.9
Incret:sed Income Tax
3.8
9.0
Commodity Tex
2.7
7.8
Non-Wer Sufferers Tex
0
6.5
Admission Tax
1.8
6.5
Corporction Tex
1.6
6.3
Others
2.3
5.4
Totcl
32.8
133..9
Inclosure 1 to OD 2., Hoidqurrters Eighth Army,
21 January 1948
Dote
2

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
b. By fir the most importrnt dofioienoy in tax collection
is in tho portion of the Inoome Tax not withheld ut souroe. It is per-
tioulcrly in this component of the income tex, the so valled '"self-
assossed" income tax, thnt irmedicte improvement is urgent. This alass
covers chiefly ftrmors, business ncn, & nd professionel proctitioners.
c. The Inoome Tex collected it source is derived from with-
holding by cmployers of compensetion p: id to employees.(as in thè
United Strtes), ind from withholding of dividend cnd interest prymonts by
corporetions rnd brnks. Employers utilizo income trx withholding trbles in
computing the trx to be withheld. During the month of Jenunry, employers.
rre required to rdjust the tox withhold during the preceding yerr to oon-
form with rcturl trx lirbilities for the yer r.
d. The Liquor, Beer, rnd Scke Tax is c specific tcx imposod
ct distillers levels. It is collocted monthly.
e. The Inc rer sed Incore Tcx : nd Non-War Sufrerers' Specirl
Trx r re :iot pe rmanent components of the genert 1 tox systom. Both texos nre
tumporrry one-timc lcvics imposcd for tcchnical reasons. The Inoreased
Incomc Tax wrs due by 30 April 1947, rnd was based upon the oxcess of 1946
celender yerr persorr1 incomes fbove 1945 levels. The Non-Wer Sufferers'
Special Tax is due by 31 Jrnurry 1948, rnd is imposed upon indiviucls
rnd corporrticns owning or utilizing rc: 1 property undri ged during the war.
f. The Commotity Tsx is mnuftcturers cd vclorem excise
levicd on most mrnufrctured commodities. It is collected monthly.
g. The Admission Trx is impos ed upon entrnce fees to
the,ters, exhibitions, ball gemes, otc. It is collected monthly.
h. The Corpor tion Tex covers tcxes on corporrte net inoome,
excess profits, crpit 1 stock and liquidrtion surpluses. It is colleoted
semicnnu lly.
C. Ft ctors Responsible for Low Income Trx Collections to Da.te:
11. There cre two mrjor frctors responsible for the poor showing
of currant trx.collections. One miy be lrid to low-stcnderd tuxpeyer com-
plirnce. The second mey be attributed to inefficiencies end irresponsible
cctivitics of trx collectors.
12. Under the new "Pry-As-You-GO" Income Tax, cll individucls
who receive or expcct to reccive income excceding 4800 yen in tny single yeer,
of which 1,000 ycn or more is not trxed ct source, cre required to file.
cstimotes of thcir income tex rssossment ourrterly. In fadition, such
individucls rre roquired to mrke qurrterly pryments on thoir ostimated tex
esscssmonts. In f:ling their lrst qur rtorly returns by Jonuary 31 of the
yerr following the toxeble yerr, texpayers i ro required to correct their
cerlior estimeted essossments to conform with cctuol incomo received.
13. In view cf the newness of the self-rssessment rnd."Poy-As-
You-Go" fortures of the Incomc Trx, f ccrtain : mount of complience
Drto
3

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
diffioulty wrs forescen. Since 1887, when the inoome trx wes firet
inaugurctcd in Jrpcn, incomo tax cssessmants hrvo largoly trkon tho
form of "gucss-work" by trx officials. Most trxpcyers hcve thus fer
filed grortly undorstrted returns, anptrontly in antioipation of
Govornmont ret ssessment. This has beon the ct:so for the first threo
qurrterly rcturns--es filed in June, August and Ootober. The fourth and
finc1 qurrtcrly roturn is due by Jrnurry 31, 1948. It is hoped thet
this roturn will reprcsent r merked improvemont over the first throer
14. New and severe penalties aweit texpuyers who under-stete
incomes in Jrnurry returns. The Income Tax Lew, t.s revised this month,
providus for.25% rutomotic penalty on the amount of tux not reported
rs of Janur ry 31.
15. Another pennlty thrt will be incurred by taxpayers who
are delinqucnt  in payments of income tcxes is an interest cherge.
Effective this month, interest is chargcablo on lcte payments at the
rrte of 5 sen per 100 yen por diem. This is equivelent to 18.25% per
ennum..
16. Bucruso this is the first yeer of the new Income Tex, tho
Govcrnment is offoring on incentive to socure maximum complience by texpayors.
Any trxpeyer filing a correct fincl return in Jrnurry 1948 will be
absolved of cll penoltics end intorost chargos thct he ordinarily would
heve incurred. For exomple, e texptyer who wcs licblo to file quartorly
returns lsst Junc, Au ust : nd October, failed to do so. Ho would not bo
ponclized for failing to file proviously if he submits s correct final
return in Jr nur ry.
17. The scccnd mojor frctor responsible for inedequcte incomo
tox. collections crn be laid to sabots ging trctics rcportedly sponsored by
the Netion: 1 Tex Workors Union. In pressing demnds for incrersed wagos
for trx personnel, tho Union hes carriod on a concerted crmpeign designed
to slow down trx administrction. Thc trctics utilized since eerly
October this yerr include:
r. Hrnging posters on the wclls of tex offices condemning
the tax systcm and imploring the public not to comply with tax duties.
b. Ordering tax office employecs to countermand orders of
superior officirls unless such orders werc first approved by union lecders.
This hrs resulted in thc refusal of tex office employees to renssess tex-
pryers inconcs and to enforce payment cf texes.
c. Holding mrss union mectings during office hours. Meet-
ings gonerrlly lest for two hours nnd occur scveral times per week. During
this time all work in tex offices ceases.
18. On 16 December 1947, lerders of tho Nrtional Tux Workers
Union were summoncd to the office of the Lebor Division, ESS, GHQ, SCAP.
The Union wes instructed to issue orders immediatoly to all lower Union
Inclosurc 1 to OD2
Hoadquorters Bighth Army
21 January.1948
Dcte
4-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
cshelons to the offect that all slowdown notivities werm
thet orders of tax office superintendents wore to be obe
17 December 1947 tho Union informed Mr. Killen, Chief of
Division, that orders to that effeot hed beon issued.
19. Thus far, no indicetion hes been rocoived by the Mini
of Finnnoe of the chrnge in union polioy. In the light of the warmin
given to the union leoders by Mr. Kllen, to the effeot that their
ootivities were unhwful and domeging to the netional intorest, disoipli-
nary nction may be taken by the Japonese Governmant in Januery 1948
if slow-down'tctivities continue.
D. Details of Surveillance.
rrrt hos issued
41y roall erted
 1 eu1  trie s. ne rireument surveilltnce tuen has buon
designrted exclusively for cach of the eight Rogioncl Finence Bureaus, shown
in Inclosure 2. Cther reinforcument toams will supcrviso the loonl branch
tax offices of thc nrtiona1 govurnmont rs shown in inolosurcs 2 and 4.
b. Thrt collootion goals estrblishoi by lccrl tax offioes
cre in consonance with amcunts prescribod by thc Rogicnai rin noial
Burerus. The reinfcrcement torm which hrs surveillrnce cr cch Rogional
Finence Buroru will verify with profecturol militr ry co r ument teems the
correctnoss of the tix r llccaticns to local tax offices.
21. It is desired arrtngements be mede for the employees of
ench lccal tix cffice to bc briefod by a rusponsible Jepinose Government
tax collection cfficitl in tho prusence of o lilitcry Government representa
tive. The briefing of emplcycus should stress:
c. Importance of task being performod.
b. Urgent need for incrcosed revenue in order tc preolude
government borrowing from the Bunk of Jopan and ccnsequent inorensed
currenoy issue. (The Government's innbility to meet obligrtions beoouse
of decrecsed revenue is the most importnt single factor in the prosent
inflationery trend.)
o. Multiple inflationcry effeot which results from
inoreased currency issue and whioh oontributes directly to higher oost
of living.
d. Incrensed woges for tax emplcyeos cs well as other
government emplcyues is largely dependent upon efficient tox cdministrrtion.
Inclosure 1 tc OD 2
Headquartors Eighth Amy,21 January 1948
Dato
-5-

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
22. It is desired that all informational and publia
transmitted through technionl chcnnols to. local Militory Gov
be accorded prompt dissemination within their &rens rnd thet loom
officials be cnoouraged to institute publioity programs through loeml
media designed tc stimulate the tex colleotion program.
23. It is desired thct special surveillrnoe be cccorded to
cctions on the pert of Japanese Government tax officials to ensure that
adequate investigation is made cf returns from persons suspeoted of block
market operations.. Local tax officials shculd be enoourage to exeroise
vigorous prosecution for improper returns on the pert of suoh individuals.
ond to afford wide lecal publioity tc such action. In addition it is
desired thet lccal tax cfficiels be advised to conduot spot cheoks of
amusement places, (such es night olubs, theatres, etc.) in order to
determine eccuracy cf returns therefrom.
24. 1t is desired that sepcrete roports be mede through
techniorl chrnnels.tc this Headqucrters giving se:lient fcots and oir-
cumstanoes ctten:cnt with any reorlcitrent cr evasive rctien on the
part cf fcreign nsticnr ls (such cs Chinese, Korerns, etc.) in offecting
peyment of just tex returns.
25..It is desirc! that sepemte reports to this Headquarters
thrcugh techniccl channels be mede cn tho cctivitics (f cny union
lccders cr cther tnx cmployees which it is doemcd ere impeding or
slcwing dcwn the tox ccllecticn prcgrem.
26. It is desired thet such cporeticnel cssistance as is.
deemed fetsible end dces nct trensgress cn civil liberties be accorded
regicnel cnd locul tox cfficirls by Militery Gcvommont personnel
exercising surveillrnce (ver this prognm. Such essist.nce my tike
the form cf cining local cfficials tc cbtrin adequrte means for distri-
bution of tax fon's end nctices, cr cf eccompenying Jepaneso tax officials
on their spct checks (f cmusement places for the purposo cf investigatiug
methods used by cfficicls in echieving tdequcto informaticn.
27. It is desired thet lcccl tex ffices receive semi-monthly
calls by Militr ry Government personnel. The purpose of these calls should
be tc evalurte prcgress towerd cchieving lccal tex collecticn go.ls, to
lend infomol essistence tc inoreese collection efficiency, and to
inplement suryeillcnce es outlined horoin.
28. It is desiro thrt reports (Repcrts Ccntrol Symbol MG-13)
be submitted to the Conmonting Gonerml, Eighth Amy, Attenticn: Military
Govemment Secticn, APo 343, on cr obout the 1rst dey of January,
February, Merch, and April 1946 to reach this headqurrtors nct later
then the lOth dey following the menth reported on. Reports sheuld be
in concise nerretive fcrm en! include the fcllowing infcrmetion:
r. Trx ccllecticn gocls assigned tc ecch lccal tox
office within occh locel scvernment crec.
b. Actuel ronthly tcx ccllecti(ns roported by eech loocl
tox office fcr the period Ncvember 1947 to date.
Inclosure 1 to OD 2, Heodquarters Eighth Anmy, 21 January 1948
Dato
6

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
c. Major problems of tax a ministration in each Military
Government area.
d. Extent of tax office sabotege, if any.
e. Type and extent of operational assistance given to
local tax offices.
Date
7

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
NAMES AND LOCATION OF LOCAL TAX OFFICES
1. Tokyo Regionol Finance Burecu, Tokyo, K: Yuohi, Director.
a. Tokyo Prefecture
Name of Locel Office
Location
Name of Chief
Kozimechi
1-1 Otemechi Chiyode-ku
K. Kakimuma
Kando
Higashi-kende Chiyoda-ku
S. Nokamura
Nihonbrshi
2-5 Horidome-cho Chuo-ku
K. Kunieda
Kyobeshi
8-2 Kobiki-cho Chuo-ku
S. Murakoshi
Shibe
2-103 Atago-cho Mineto-ku
H. Setó
Yotsuye
Kioi-cho Chiyoda-ku
S. Kawada
Azrbu
c/o Kioi-cho Chiyoda-ku
T. Oshima
Koishikcwe
36 Mascgo-cho Bunkyo-ku
K. Torii
Hongo
Mrsago-cho Bunkyo-ku
R. Koizumi
Shitryc
Kitr-incri-cho Daito-ku
T. Nekesima
As&kuse
Kura-cho Daito-ku
T. Armki
Shinggewa
Kitrshinggowe Shinagawa-ku
Y. Ishihnra
Omori
Ichinokure-cho Ota-ku
S. Kagawa
Setrgyo
Wekabayeshi-cho
Setrg.yt-ku
Y. Okcda
Teme gewo
c/o ditto
S. Iohikewa
Meguro
Kumimeguro Meguro-ku
N. Uchikoshi
Shibuyn
Kimidori Shibuyc-ku
K. Umezu
Yodobnshi
Nishiokubo Shinjuku-ku
I.. Omcto
Nokuno
Showadori N.kuno-ku
M. Onimeru
Suginemi
Asageyc Suginami-ku
T. Uchiyama
Itrbeshi
Itcbrshi Itcbrshi-ku
K. Kikuchi
Nerima
Norime-mingmi-cho
Itabashi-ku
Y. Momiyo
Toshima
Zoshigaya-oho Toshima-ku
R. Sasaki
Ozi
Ozi Czi-ku
K. Ogata
Artkawa
Nihdori-oho Arakawa
T. Tanikawa
Adachi
Mincmisenju-cho Arakowa-ku
T. Kato
Sumida
Sumide-cho Sumida-ku
K. Simono
Katsushika
Sunnhara-cho Katsushika-ku
H.-Atsuta
Edogown
Nishi-komatsugowa Edogawa-ku
T.. Yamaguchi
Koto
Huogawa-kiyosumi-cho
N..Scito
Edogown-ku
Ome
Qmo.cho Nishitamr-gun
K. Miyrgawa
Hnchiożi
Yckcyrmu-mure Minemitemo-gun
M. Tekuichi
Tachikowe
Siznki-cho Tachikewn-city
K. Suzuki
Musnshino
Musashino-oho Kitatrmr-gun
S. Sugiyama
21 Jonuary 1948
Inclosure 2 to OD
Herdquerters Eighth Army,
Doto

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
b. Kcnagcwn Prefeoture
Neme of Locr1 Office
Loertion
Nrme of 
Yokohome
Noge-cho Nrko-ku
H. Tamada
Isogo
Isogo-cho Yokohemr-city
K. Tachikowa
Totsuke
Totsukr-cho Totsukr-ku Yoko-
hrime city
K. Miyascki
Kona gawe
Shitito-cho K:.ncgowa-ku
.S. Matsue
surumi
Oi-cho Tsurumi-ku Yokohemc City.S. Hihara
Kownscki
Sumako Krwcscki
T. Mcsuda
Yokosuke
Hukrdo-cho Yokosuko-city
.S. Shimozyo
Huzisuwo
Huzisawe Huzisewo-city
T. Kcmiyamo
Oiso
Oiso-cho Nckr-gun
H. Yoshida
Atsugi
Atsugi-cho Aiko-gun
H. Huzita
Odawere
Suiwni Odownre-city
J. Obata
o. Saitema Prefecture
Nime of Loc: 1 Office
Location
Nome of Chief
Urowa
Nakr-cho Urrwc-city
I. Sugita
Kowr guchi
S.:kre-cho Kowcguchi-oity
K. Goto
Kewagoe
Aiyashito-cho Kcwcgoe-city
T. Ikestwa
Titibu
Titibu-cho Titibu-gun
H. Shirota
Kumr gry
Kumr gcyr Kumr gayr-city
S. Kozime
Oshi
Oshi-cho Kitrsritcmc-gun
M. Isobe
Knsukabe
Krsukabe-cho incmisaitcme-gun
K. Kurcmochi
d. Chiba Prefecture
Nome of Locrl Office
Locction
Nome of Chief
Chibc
Nrgosu Tibr-city
J. Matsumoto
Nr rits
N: ritt-cho Inbr-gun
K. Toyema
Mrtsudo
Ntsudo Mr tsudo-city
K. Scki
Ichikewc
Oozr -Kokubu Ichiktwr-city
G. Noguchi
Sewere
Suwaru-cho Ketori-gun
K. Srkiguchi
Choshi
Syogen-cho Choshi-city
K. Arai
Togene
Togane-cho Yamabe-gun
Z. Shimizu
Mohorc
Mohrrr-cho Chosei-gun
Y. Suzuki
Kisnrazu
Kisarczu Kisarczu-city
H. Okubo
Teteyrmr
Hojyo Tateyama-city
Y. Ando
e. Yemcneshi Prefecture
Neme of Local Office
Locction
Nome of Chief
Kohu
Sakurc-cho Kohu-city
K. Koizumi
Kenoiwe
Kenoiwc-cho Higrchiyimcncshi-n T. Tereda
Kozikezowe
Krzikczrwt-cho Minomikome-gun
Y. Horita
Ni rascki
Nirasrki Kittkoms-gun
K. Yemt dera
Otsuki
Otsuki-cho Kitntsuru-gun
T. Okuaki
2
Inclosure 2 to OD 2, Hecdquarters Eighth Army,, 21 January 1948.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
f.'Tochigi Prefecture
2
Name of Local Office
Location
Utsunomiya
Hanawada-cho Utsunomiya-city
T.KOba
Kanuma
Kanuna-cho Kamitoka-gun
K. Katano
R. Arai
Maoka
Maoka-cho Haga-gun
Tochigi
Tochigi-city
H. Nakamura
Otawara
Otawara-cho Nasu-gun
K. Namura
Ashikaga
Tomoi-cho ashikaga-city
G. :uto
Sano
Sano-city
Y. Harasawa
Ibaraki Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Lcostion
Name of Chief
wito
Matsumoto-cho ito-city
K. Akabana
Ota
Ota-cho Kuzi-gun
T. Sodeyama
Takahagi
Takahagi-cho Taka-gun
Y. Nonomura
ÀSo
Aso-cho Namekata-gun
Y. Aorito
Ryugasaki
Ryugasaki-cho Inashiki-gun
T. Akashi
Tsutiura
Kawanishi-cho Tsutiura-city
U. Taguchi
Shimodate
Shimodate-cho Makabe-gun
G. Kobayashi
Sakai
Sakai-cho Sarushima-gun
J. Kosuge
h. Guma Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Maebashi
Tanaka-cho Maebashi-qity
M. Hirai
Takasaki
Yazima-cho Takasaki-city
G. Kenmochi
Huzioka
Huzioka-cho Tano-gun
H. Mori
Gunmatomioka
Tomioka-cho Kitakanraku-gun
A. Suzuki
Nakanojyo
N kanojyo-cho Azuma-gun
T. Takeraba
Numata
Numata-cho Tone-gun
T. Ikeda
Kiryu
Airaku-cho Kiryu-city
H. Tsukuda
Tatebayashi
Tatebaya.hi-cho Yuraku-gun
E. Kaneko
i. Niigita Frefecture
N me f Locil Office
Location
Name of Chief
Niigata
8 Kamiokaw Maedori Niigata-city
T. Hashiba
Shibata
Tera-cho Shibati-city
Y. udaki
Maki
Maki-cho Nishikanbara-gun
T. Ishiyama
Sanjyo
Oaza-Sanjyo Sanjyo City
H. Takekuda
Nagaoka
Gakko-cho N...gaoka-city
H. Kobayashi
Oziya
Oziya-ciio Kitauonuna-gun
S. Huruya
Tokamachi
Tokamachi Nakauonuma-gun
K. Sano
Kashiwazaki
Higashi-Gakko-cho Kashiwazki-city
H. itsuma
Takada
Saijyo-cho Takada-city
G. Yasugata
Yasuzuka
Itoigawa-cho Higushixubiki-gun
K. Yabuchi
Itoigawa
Itoigawa-cho Nishikubiki-gun
K. Tamioka
Aikawa
Aikawa-cho Sado-gun
K. Utsuno
Murakami
murakami-cho Iwahuna-gun
K. Takeuchi
3
Inclosure 2 to OD 2, Headquarters Eighth Army, 21 J..nuary 1948

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
J. Nagano Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Nagano
Oaze-Minaminagano Negano-city
N. Kamijyo
Iwamurata
Iwamureta-cho Kitasaku-gun
K. Tekino
Ueda
Tsuneiri Ueda-city
H. Miyasima
Suwa
Oaza-Kamisuwa Suwa-city
T. Ishiwara
Ina
Ina-cho Kamiina-gun
Y. Ichimura
Ida
Oaze-Ida La-city
I. Iwamoto
Kiso
Hukuchinc-cho Nishitikuma-gun
T. Yamada
Matsumoto
Oaza-Kitalhukashi..atsumoto-city
T. Skaguchi
Omachi
Omachi Eitazumi-gun
Y. Hayeshi
Shinanonakano
Nakaro-cho Shimotakai-gun
R. Kawamura
2. Osaka Regiunal Financial Burecu, Oseka, D. Yoshida, Director
a. Osaka Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Locction
Name of Chief
Higashi
Moto-cho Higashi-ku
K. Kazaki
Nishi
T:isyodori Taisyo-ku
T. Kuwabara
Minami
Takatsu-cno minani-ku
Y. Ueda
Kita
Dozin.-hamadori Kits-ku
Z. Joshikuni
Osakahukushima
Dozima-Nishi-cho Kita-ku
Z. matsunaga
Konohans
Asahibashi-cho Konohana-ku
. Yamada
Ikuno
Kitaikuno-cho Ikuno-ku
K. Ueda
Higashinari
Kitaikuno-cho Ikuno-ku
T. Osumi
Asahi
Noe-Nikano-cho Jyoto-ku
.Inoue
Jyoto
Noe-cho Jyoto-ku
K. Ito
Abeno
Kitahatanaka Abeno-ku
K. Yamada
Higashisumiyoshi
Tanabeazuma-cho Higashisumiyoshi-ku T. Maki
Nishinari
Nankaidori Nishinari-ku
Y. Horita
Sumiyoshi
Sumie Naka Sumiyoshi-ku
H.'Okuda
Yodogawa
Nakatsu-Hondori Oyodo-ku
K. Iwao
Ibaraki
Ibaraki-cho mishima-gun
H. Tamura
Toyono
Moto-cho Ikeda-city
Y. Taniguchi
Sakai
Ohama-koen Sakai-city
T. Huzimoto
Izumiotsu
Tanaka-cho Izumiotsu-city
S. Yonome
Kishiwada
Kishiwada-city
H. Kitagawa
Izumisano
Sano-cho Senningun
. Yamano
TomitaBayashi
Tomitabayashi-cho minamikochi-gun
H. Tamai
Huse
D.iheigi Huse-city
H. Kawano
Yeo
Hachio-cho N:kakochi-gun
S. Tsuzi
Hire
Mikata-cho Kitakochi-gun
H. Yamamoto
4
Inclosure 2 to OD 2, Headquarters Eighth Army, 21 January 1948

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
b. Kyoto Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Locstion
Kamikyo
Kawabat_-Dori-marutasagaru
S. Yoshida
Shimotutumi-cho Sakyo-ku
Naka
Higashihairu-Nckanoshima-cho
Sanjyodori-Kawara-cho Chukyo-ku
K. Yüse
Shimokyo
Mano-cho-Gojyosagaru-Otsu-cho
Shimokyo-ku
K. ekawa
Ukyo
Saga-asahi-cho Ukyo-ku
K. Huziwara
Higashiyama
Kiyo..izu-cho Higashiyana-ku
T. Tomita
Sakyo
Shushozi-cho Sakyo-ku
T. Asho
Huchimi
Takajo-cho Huchimi-ku
T. Yoneta
Yamashiro
Tanabe
Tanabe-cho Tsuzuki-gun
Y. Vakabayashi
Sonobe
Sonobe-cho Hunai-gun
K. Ishida
Hukuchiyama
Oka Hukuchiyama-city
Y. Nii
Miyatsu
Miyatsu-cho Yosa-gun
Y. Nakazima
M&izuru
Kamieku Maizuru-city
I. Kaneko
Mineyama
Mineyama-cho Nuka-gun
M. Ikeda
c. Hyogo Prefecture
Neme of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Kobe
Kano-cho Ikuta-ku
N. Metsui
Nada
Ninomiya-cho Hukiae-ku
S. Kohara
Suma
c/o Hyogo Taxation Office
T. Sakata
Hyogo
Nishide-cho Hyoo-ku Kobe-city
K. Yotsuba
Nishinomiya
Nishide-cho Hyogo-ku
E. Matsue
Ashiya
Metsubara-cho Nishinomiya-city
H. Tanake
Itami
It:minishinomiya Itami-city
T. Yoshida
A lagasaki
Higashimoto-cho Amagasiki-city
Y. Sato
Akashi
Akashi-city
T. Ueda
Yashiro
Yashiro-cho Kato-gun
S. Nakanishi
Kakogawa
K&kogawa-cho Kakogun
Y. Tsubota
Himezi
Hon-cho Himezi-city
S. Kagizaki
Tatsuno
Tatsuno-cho Ibo-gun
K. .tsutani
Kamigori
Kamigori-cho Akako-gun
K. Okada
Toyooka
Toyooka-cho Shirosaki-gun
Y. Katagiri
Wadayame
Madayama-cho Asaka-gun
Y. Hukuoka
Kashiwabare
Kashiwabarc-cho Hikami-gun
S. urakami
Sumoto
Yamashita-cho Sumoto-city
N. Matsue
d. Nara Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Nara
Konishi-cho Nara-city
K. Setoyama
Katsuragi
Takada-cho Kitakatsuragi-gun
K. Horiike
Sakurai
Sakurai-cho Isoki-gun
a. Igarashi
Yoshino
Kamiichi-cho Yoshino-gun
T. Matsumoto
5
Inclosure 2 to OD 2, Headquarters Eighth Army, 21 January 1948.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
kayama Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Wakayama
Masago-cho Wakayama-city
K.
Kogawa
Kogawa-cho Naka-gun
H.
Kainan
Hunao Kainan-city
Iwasa
Iwasa-cho Arita-gun
Y. Tsusi
Gobo
Gobo-cho Hidake-gun
K. Masuda
Tanabe
K:miyashiki-cho Tanabe-city
K. Komori
Shingu
Ninomiya Ninomiya-city
T. Moteki
f. Shiga Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Otsu
Kamiichikura-cho Otsu-city
K. Kishimoto
Mina uchi
Minaguchi-cho Koga-gun
S.' Nunokawa
Ominechiman
Ganou-gun
Y.' Nurata
T. Tsukahara
Hikone
Iban-cho Hikone-city
Nagaha..e
Linamigohoku-cho Nagahana-city
G. Shozui
Imazu
Imazu-cho Takashima-gun
T. Yoshida
g. Fukui Prefecture
Name of Loc.1 Uffice
Location
Name of Chief
Fukui
Fukui-city
. Tükebe
Ono
Ono-cho Ono-gun
E. Hashimoto
Takeo
Takeo-cho Nanjyo-gun
N. Takita
Tsuruga
Tsunai Tsuruga-city
N. lasuya
Obama
Obama-cho Toziki-gun
S. Takeda
3. Sapforo
Regional Financial Bureau, Sapporo, R. Furuki,Director.
a. Hokkaido Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Sapporo
Odori-Nishi Sepporo-city
K. Sato
Hakodate
Nizuki-cho Hakodate-city
T. Suzumura
Ezashi
Ezashi-cho Hinoki-yama-gun
S. Ishigaki
Yagumo
Yagumo-cho Yamagoe-gun
.Kadouchi
Sutsu
Sutsu-cho Sutsu-gun
S. Hoga
Otaru
Tomioka-cho Otaru-city
T. Honjyo
Kucchian
Kucchian-cho Abuta-gun
S. Soma
Iwamizawa
Nijyodori-Higashi Iwamizawa-city
K. Nagano
Takigawe
Takigewa-cho oya-gun
K. Negamatsu
Ishikarihukagawa
Loto-machi Huka awc-cho Uryu-gun
T. Okumura
Asahikawa
Gojyodori Aschikawa-city
.otono
Nayoro.
N-yoro-cho Kamikava-gun
K. Goto
Rumoi
Rumoi-cho Rumoi-gun
1.. Sato.
Wakkanai
Vakkan i-cho Soya-gun
. Ogura
Muroren
Scivci-cho muroran-city
k. Matsuki
6
Inclosure 2 to OD 2, Headquarters Eighth army, 21 January 1948

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
Prefecture (cont'd):
of kocal Office
Location
Orakawa
Urakawa-cho Urakawa-gun
Tomakomai
Tomakomaki-cho Isamimatsu-gun
Abashiri
Abashiri-cho Abashiri-gun
Kitami
Takadai Kitami-city.
onbetsu
uonbetsu-cho uonbetsu-gun
H. Yadagai
Kushirom
Hebu-cho Kushiro-city
H. Hukaye
Obihiro
Nishi-Ichijyo Obihiri-city
T. Ishida
Tokachi-Ikeda
Ikeda-cho Nakagawa-gun
E.. Aoama
Nemuro
Nemuro-cho Nemuro-gun
E. Sakamoto
4. Sendai Regional Financial Bureau, Sendei, J. Ishihara, Director
a. iyagi Prefecture
Name of Locel Office
Location
Neme of Chief
Sendai
Kitaichiban-cho Sendai-city
Y..Suzuki
Shiogama
Aza-Hanadete Shiogama-city
S:.Nara.
Hurukawa
Hurukawa-cho Shide gun
Y..Nikaido.
Tsukidate
Tsukidate-cho Kurinare-gun
K..Kanizaki
Sanuma
Sanuma-cho Tome-gun
K..Sato
Shizukawa
Shizukawa-cho .otoyoshi-gun
Y:. aeda
Ishinomaki
Nitta-cho'Ishinomaki-city
H: Sato
Ogawara
Ogavara-cho Shibat--gun
T: Kikuchi
b. Iwate,Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Nage of Chief
Liorioka
Ueda ..orioka-city
K..Tiba
Hanamaki
Hanamaki-cho Hieki-gun
K. Segawa
Mizusawa
izusawa-cho Tanzawa-gun
M. Magai
Ichinosaki
Ichinosaki-cho Nishiiwai-gun
T. Katayori
Sakari
Sakari-cho Kisan-gun
i. Hunau
Kamaishi
Kamaishi Kamaishi-city
A. Sato
Shimohei
-iyako-cho iyako-city
T. Yabuta
Kuzi
Kuzi-eho Konone-gun
Z. Kikuche
Ninoe
Hukuoka-cho Ninoe-gun
K. Umemori
c. Fukushima Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Fukushima
Miyamachi Fukushima-city
T. Mori
Nihonmatsu
Nihonmatsu-cho Adachi-gun
Y. Sugahara
Koriyama
Danjyo Koriyama-čity
S. Sato
Sugagawa
Sugagawa-cho Iwase-gun
T. Hirai
Tazima
Tazima-cho inamiaizu-gun
T. Takahashi
Wakamatsu
Koga-cho Wakamatsu-city
G. Higuchi
7
Inclosure 2 to OD 2, Headquarters Eighth Arry, 21 January 1948

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
Fukushimc Profocture (cont'd).
Name of Local Office
Loortion
Meme of Chi
Kiteketo
Kitokcta-cho Yama-gun
K. Watonobe
Brmge
Bemge-cho Kewenumc-gun
s. Uryu.
Shirckowe
Shirckowc-ohoNishishirnkewa-gun
Z. Koa
Taire
Tczim. Tairr-city
1.Takahcshi
Somr
Nakamurn-cho Somr-Cun
T. Ito
fkitn Prefecture
Nope :df Locr1 Office
Loceti on
Name of Chief
Akito
Kameno-cho Horitome-cho Akite-city
Obori
Odote
Odete-cho Kitaakita-gun
E. Kodem
Hnewn
Hanawa-oho Kcno-gun
K. Koyama
Noshiro
Noshiro-city
T. Tsuzaki
Honjyo
Honjyo-cho Yuri-gun
S. Tsushime
Omngori
Omcgori-cho Senhoku-gun
S. Hakozaki
Yokote
Yokote-choHirkn-gun
S. Suzuki
Aomori Prefecture
Nome of Loccl Office
Lecntion
Neme of Chief
Aomori
Oaze-Uremrohi Aomori-city
T. Noda
Ajikrzawa
Ajikezawa-cho Nishitsugtru-gun
H..Sagowa
Hiroseki
Srgora-cho hirosuki-city
T. Aoki
Kuroishi.
Kuroishi-cho t.incmitsugcru-gun
I. Suzuki
Goshogewr rm
Goshogewere-cho Kitctsugoru-gun
P. Ncrumi
Senboni
Snnbóngi-cho Kcmikitn-gun
H.,Kikuchi
Tancbe'!
Trnrbe-cho Shimokita-gun
J. Goto
Hachinoe
Honbrta-choHrchinoe-city
K. Hurukawa
Yamr geta Prefecture
Name of Local Uffice
Locstion
Name of Chief
Yemagota
Hatago-cho Yamgota-city
Y. Sc gówa
Sagne
Sagce-cho Nishimurayama-gun.
K. Nizaki
Tateoka
Tcteoka-cho.Kitamurcyama-gun
T. Kenbe
Shinjyo
Shinjyo-oho Mogami-un
K. Abe
Saknto
ioto-mechi Sekete-city
S. Kato
Tsuruoka
Tsuruokc-city
Y.Saki
Negei
Nagai-cho Nishiokitoma-gun
T. Sendo
Yonezewa.
Yonozawa-city
Z. Yamaguchi
Inclosure 2 to OD 2 Herdguerters Eighth rmy 21 January 1948
-8-

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
a. Aichi Prefecture
Namd of Locel Office
Lecation
Nagoyhigashi
\Shirukabe-cho Higashi-ku
K.
Nagoyanishi
hinanisotobori-cho N.ka-ku
Nigoyanaka
Linamisotobori-cho Nakamku
L. Amtā
Showa
Sakurayama Showa-ku
I. žakahashi
Atsuta
Minami-ku
Sumi
Nakagawe
Yagunadori Nakagawa-ku
Ichikawa
Komaki
Kom-ki-cho Higashikasugei-gun
Moriya
Owariseto
Seto-city
Isogai
Ichinaniya
Liezidori Ichinomiya-city
Wita
Tsushima
Oaza-Tsushiia Tsushima-city
Takahashi
Handa
Oaza-Horiski Handa City
Ito
Ohame
Ohama-cho Hokikai-gun
Tsukiyama
Nishio
Nishio-cho Hazu-gun
Tokoro
Okazaki
Okazaki-city
Yamashita
Taguchi
Taguchl-cho Nitashigarogi-gun
H. Muramatsu
Toyohashi
Higasnihattyo Toyohashi-city
T.. Nakagome
Shinjyo
Shiny-cho Minamishigaragi-gun
M.Nitta
b. Shizuoka Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Shizuoka
Kitaando-cho Shizuoka-city
L. Hoseno
Shinizu
Shi.izu-city
T. Ono
Shimoda
Shimoda-cho Kamo-gun
S. Umeda
Numazu
Ote-cho Numazu-city
T. Okuda
Atami
Atami Atemi-city
H. Shimizu
Huzimiya
Omiya Huzimiya-city
T. Yamamoto
Huzieda
Huzieda-cho Shita-gun
T. Nagae
Iwata
Iwata-cho Iwata-gun
M. Ueno
Kakegawa
K:kegawa-cho Ogasa-gun.
K. Mitsui
Humamatsu
Aioi-cho Hamamatsu-city
H. Ikeda
c. Mie Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Locction
Name of Chief
Tsu
Hiroaki-cho Tsu-city
ii. Udono
Suzuka
Kobeshin-cho Suzuka-city
Y. Okuno
Kuwana
Ocza-Kuwana Kuwana-city
T. Huruyama
Yokkaichi
Oaza-hmagasuka Yokkaichi-city
K. Huzishima
Matsuzaka
Oaza-matsuzaka atsuzaka-city
S. Hanzawa
Uziyalada
Iwabuchi-cho Uziyannda-city
S. Shu
Ueno
Oaza Ueno Ueno-city
S. Inanuma
Owase
Owase-cho Kitanuro-gun
J. Hukuyama
Kinoto
Kinoto-cho .inaminuro-gun
L."Niwa
9
Inclosure 3 to OD 2, Headquarters Eighth hrmy, 21 Jenuary 1948

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
Gifu Prefesture
Mome of Local Office
Locertion
01fu
Gafu-oity
Ogoki
Nankyo-oho Ogaki-orty
Seki
Seki-cho Bugi-gun
Guniyo
Heohimnn-cho Koriyamc-gun
Tozimi
Showe-cho Tezimi-city
Liyeoka
Nrkntsugwo
Nakatsu-cho Ena-gun
Y. Ito
Takcyama
Noda-cho Takayama-city
I. Inagaki
e. Toycma Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Locntion
Nome of Chief
Toyema
Sakurebcshidori Toyoma-city
L. Hunasiri
Uotsu
Uotsu-cho Shimoshinkrwa-gun
S. Tonake
Tokcoke
Toknoka-city
T. Sono
Demachi
Dom: chi. Higoshitorami-gun
. Kitamurp
f. Ishiknwa Prefecture
Neme of Local Office
Lecation
Hame of Chief
Konazawa
Kitade-oho Kanezawa-city
M. Okoyama
Kometsu
Tono-oha Komatsu-city
Y. Hirai
Naneo
Huzibeshi Nenao-city
K. Tanaka
Wazima
We:zime-cho. Hoshi-gun
H. Koyama
6.
Hiroshime Kegionol Financial Dureau.Hiroshima,Hiroshima Takahashi
Director.
0. Hiroshime Prefecture
Nome of Locel Uffice
Locetion
Name of Chief
Hiroshime
Hettyobori Hiroshimo-city
Y. Sekurai
Hntsuknichi
Hotsukrichi-cho Saeki-gun
I. Wada
Kure
Kure-city
T. Asai
Kabe
Nckahe.ra-murn Usa-gun
B. wisuhara
Yoshida
Yoshide-mura Tekoda-gun
Y. Takamatsu
Saijyo
Scijyo Kamo-gun
K. Maruki
Tadanoumi
Tadanoumi-cho Toyode-gun
M. Shirckami
Onomichi
Tomyosho-cho Onomichi-city
T. Kondo
Hukuyma
Nishi-cho Hukuyamr-city
S. Seto
Huchu
Huchu-mochi Ashishina-gun
K. Shimonishi
Niyoshi
riyoshi-cho
I. Tckeuchi
Shoharr
Shohara-cho Hiba-gun
K. Higashikubo
Inclosure 2 to OD 2 Headquarters Eighth Army 21 Janucry 1948
-10-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.96)
b. -Yamaguchi Profecture
Neme of Locel Office
Locotion
Name of Chia
Yamaguohi
Oaze-Imomichi Yomaguchi-city
K. kuroi
Iwokuni
Oaza Iwokuni-city
K. Sakuma
Yenoi
Yanci-cho Kuga-gun
A. hetsuda
Tokuyama
Tokuyama-city
J. Tenaka
Hikari
Oaze-Asce Hiknri-city
I. Hurukawa
Bohu
Litaziri Bohu-city
T. Hoshikwa
Asa
Asa-cho hsn-gun
T. Akagawa
Ube
990-2 Nckaube Ube-oity
Z. Tenaka
Shimonosaki
Onza-lishkino-cho Shimonosaki-city
S. Ohata
Nogotohukegewc
Hukagawa-cho Otsu-gun
K. Kadota
Hngi
Oaza-Hignshida-cho Hcgi-city
Y. Kcto
c.
Okeyama Prefecture
Neme of Local Office
Locction
Name of Chief
Okayama
Oaza-Higashinakayemashito
Oknyame-city
M. Miyeuchi
Seto
Seto-cho Akciwa-gun
R. Huzita
Saidaizi
Jyodo-gun
..kesuya
Azino
Azino-cho Kosima-gun
Y. Akomatsu
Kuroshiki
Azc-Asahi-cho Kurtshiki-city
S. Yomaguchi
Temezima
Trmozime-cho Asakuchi-gun
K. Irie
Kcsaoka
Kcscokc-cho Oda-gun
S. Watanabe
Tokehashi
Tokahnshi-oho Jyobo-gun
K. Herami
Nimi
Nimi-cho Atetsu-gun
H. Yetani
Kuze
Kuze-oho weniwe-gun
K. Iwai
Tsuyama
Tamechi Tsuyrma-city
K. Yumoto
Hnyeshino
Heyashino-cho Aida-gun
T. Iteya
d.
Tottori Prefecture
Nome of Local Office
Location
Nome of Chief
Tottori
Higtshi-cho Tottori-city
S. ori
Kureyoshi
Kurryoshi-cho Higcshitoonoku-gun
S. Tsunoda
Yonggo
Krmo-cho Yont go-city
J. Ariwa
Shimone Prefecture
e.
Nome of Loccl Office
Locetion
Name of Shief
Hatsue
Nckehorc-cho atsue-city
K..Nomura
Yosuki
853, Aza-Kcwogo Yt.suki-oho Nomi-gun
S..Ishikcwa
Deito
Deito-cho Uhera-gun
K. Ichimura
I zumo
Otsu-cho Izumc-city
Y.. Mishima
Iwcmite
Ota-cho Anon-gun
T. Kitaura
Kcwomoto
Kawamoto-cho Ochi-gun
T. urata
Hama de
Homr de-cho Nekr-gun
H. rukei
Nasuda
1osuda-cho Shukichi-gun
Y. Taba
Seigo
Scigo-cho Shukichi-gun
K. Okemoto
Inclosure 2 to OD 2 Hecdquarters Eighth Army 21 Janucry 1948
211-

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
7. Tokemstsu Regional Finoncial Burecu, Tokameteu, R. Yokoyoma, Direobor.
a. Kagawe Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Locction
Name of Chidf
Tekemotsu
Kusunoki2-cho Tokamatsu-city
Y. Suzuki
arugame
Lorugame-city
I. Tanaka
Srkeeda
Hignshiohnma Sokeedo-city
H. Shakudo
Nagao
Nagao-cho Okewa-gun
H. Lietsunoga
Tosho
Aza-Hase Shodo-gun
H. Nekamura
b. Ehime Prefecture.
Name of Locel Office
Location
Ncme of Chief
Lctsuyrma
Onzc-dogo Mrtsuyrma-city
H. Toyodam
Imehoru
Onzn-shin-cho Imahcru-city
i. Nekagawa
Nii
Onza-Akiyashiki Saijyo-city
Y. Shivata
Mishima
rishima-cho Umo-gun
H. Yemamoto
Osu
Osu-cho Kito-gun
S. Gunba
Yahetohema
Shimomctsukege Ychatahama-city
M. Takahashi
Unomochi
Higcshiuwa-gun
T. Kondo
Uwozima
Hcribctedori Uwczima-city
S. Kotayema
c. Tokushima Prefecture
Nome of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Tokushimo
Kokuhu-cho Nato-gun
K. Tanaka
Kewoshima
Knweshima-chc Assue-gun
S. Sasaki
Tomioka
Tomioka-cho Neka-gun
Y. Yomada
Mugi
igi-cho Umibe-gun
S. Wetabe
Muya
Senmeki-cho Itano-gun
N. Sakaki
Wakimachi
Wekimechi Lima-gun
Y. iyamura
Ikedo
Ikedamachi Miycshi-gun
J. Okewa
d. Kochi Prefccture
Name cf Locol Office
Location
Name of Chief
Kochi
Kanehobeshi Kochi-city
M. Shinpo
Nakamuro
Nakamuro-cho Hata-gun
T. Kuwamo
Suzaki
Suzaki-cho Teknoka-gun
Y. Ichihashi
Akaoka
Akaoka-cho Kami-gun
T. Euchi
Aki
Aki-cho Aki-gun
K. Takeda
8. Kumamoto Regional Financial Bureru, Kumamoto, T. Ijichi, Director.
n. .Kumamoto Prefecture
Name cf Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Kumomoto
Chibashiro-cho Kumamoto-city
K. Saito
.ihume
rihume-cho Kemimesuki-gun
S. Toriyama
Inclosure ? to OD 2 Hcadquarters Eighth Army 21 January 1948
-12-

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
(eont'à)
Location
Tamana-cho Tamane-gun
Yamaga-oho Kamoto-gun
Miyaohi
Miysohi-oho Aso-gun
Yashiro
Nishimoto-oho Yashiro-city
Hitoyoshi
Hitoyoshi-oho Tama-gun
Amakusa
Motowatari-cho Amakusa-gun
Fukuoka Prefecture
Name of Local Office
Location
Name of Chief
Fukuoka
Huchizaki Kamitemachi Fuku ka-city
K. Yoshitake
Kashii
Kashii-cho Kasuya-gun
M. Toyomasu
Tsukushi
Hutsukeichi-cho Tsuk:shi-gun
S. Matsuhusi
Yeheta
Oaza-Ogure Yahetc-oity
H. Ikenaka
Onge
Orio-cho Onge-gun
I. Toyonage
Naoketa
Naokote-city
S. Shinmo
Tegowa
Nishimoto-cho Ida-cho Togawa-city
S. Doseno
I zuka
Izuka Izuka-city
I. Notomd
Kurume
Kyo-oho Kurume-city
Y. Jyosima
Amaki
Ameki-cho Asakurc-gun
T. Nakagawe
Okewe
Okewe-cho wizo-gun
M. Matsumoto
Yeme
Hukushime-cho Yeme-gun
J. Kitagawa
Omuda
Jyoshin-cho Omuda-city
S. Mizota
Kokura
Koney-cho Kckurc-city
T. Tikano
Mozi
Oaze-Luozi Mozi-city
S. Ota.
Yukuhrshi
Yukibeshi-oho Kyoto-gun
K. Uehara
Oite Prefeoture
Name of Lesal Office
Lecation
Name of Chief
Oita
Nicge-cho Oitc-city
M. Serizewa
Kunisrki
Kuniscki-cho Kunisaki-gun
M. Ito
Hizi
Hinode-oho Hryemi-gun
T. Watanabe
Usuki
Usuki-oho Kitaumibe-gun
T. Sato
Seeki
Iza-Mctsugchcnc Sceki-city
M.Kemiesu
Mie
Aie-cho Ono-gun
M. Anan
Tekeda
Takedn-cho Neahaohi-gun
T. Trnebe
Hida
Hida-cho Hida-gun
K. Yonekura
Mori
L ori-oho Kume-gun
R. Iwco
Noketsu
Tono-cho Nr ketsu-city
T. Takito
Yokkaichimachi
Yokkaichimechi Use-gun
T. Iwckiri
d.
Nagtseki Prefecture
Name of Chi
Neme of Locel Office
Locction
Nogasaki
Motodaiku-oho Nrgosaki-city
H. Kowamurah
Iseheye
1schaya-city
T. Kurose.
Inclosur 2 to 0D 2 Heedquarters Eighth frmy 21 January 1948
-13-.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
Mrgeseki Prefecture (cont'd)
Name of Local Office
Location
Sesebo
Kibate-oho Sesebo-city
K. Miyegowa
Shimabrra
Gongenyamenishi Shimcbe rn-city
H. Ikeda
Hirto
Hircto-cho Kitemetsuurn-gun
K. Yasumi
Hukue
Hukue-cho Linemimotsurr-gun
Y. hokubu
Bushozu
Bushozu-cho Iki-gun
S. Kamimura
Izuhc ro
Izuhnro-oho Shimogntr-gun
K. Ogura
Srgo Prefecture
Nome of Locel Office
Locetion
Name of Chief
Sr ge
urtsubare-cho Soga-city
S. Komo zewa
Karctsu
Azn-Kuruwruchi Karnteu-city
T. Imoo
Tekeo
Tekeo-cho Kinezime-run
1da
Im.ri
Imcri-cho Nishimats:uru-gun
H. Tashiro
f. Kagoshimr Frefecture
Neme of Locrl Office
Locetion
Name of Chief
Kegoshima
Ekii-cho Kagoshimr-city
Y. Motio
Chircn
Chiran-cho Kiw be-gun
S. Nigaki
Sendni
Miyruchi-sro Sencci
K. Ikono
Demizu
Demizu-cho Demizv-gun
M. Kanei
Kojiki
Kejiki-cho hira-tun
K. Hirata
lwekewn
Iwekawo-cno So-gun
T. Takchoshi
Kenoye
Knoyε-city
. Teniguohi
Tenegashime
Kumrge-gun
8. Anre
g. Liyrznki Prefecture
Neme of Locel Office
Location
Name of Chief
Miyczaki
liyctomechi Miyozcki-city
M. Hideshime
Obi
Obimechi inrmincka-gun
M. Tsuruta
Miyekonozyo
Piyckonozyo-city
Y. Suenega
Trkanebe
Takcncbemechi Koyu-gun
M. Kawosaki
Nobeoko
Onza-Okrtnmi Nobeokr-city
La. Takeyema
Trkrchiho
Takachiho-machi Nishiusuki-gun
. K. Yemeguchi
Inolosure 2 to OD 2 Heodquarters Eighth Army 21 Januery 1948
-14-

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTIMATD REVENUE FROM TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(FILLION YEN)
NOTE:
Figures shown may be subject to slight revisions but are
sufficiently :ccurrte to serve &s a guide.
Revenue
ESTIMATED REVENUE
Total
TAXES
collected
Estimated
Collections
pr - Oct
Nov
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
Mor.
AprMoy
(with
10,821
2,350
2,350
3,350
2,430
2,816
23,122
(held
Income Tcx(Self-
4,231
879
.950
7,149
9,284
11,948
12,081
46,522
(issesser
(Totel
15,052
3,229
3,300
10,499
11.714
13,764
12,086
69,644
Increased Income To
3,777
400
.335
950
1.063
1,363
212
8,100
Corporotion Tax
1,565
595
510
809
.875
977
969
6,300
Liquor Tex
5,553
741
1,741
4,283
4.757
4.508
.2,589
23,870
Commodity Tex
2,669
598
787
1,099
1,003
848
.448
7,452
Admission Tex
1,859
518
633
803
.878
.862
313
5,866
Non-Wor Sufferers
1,766
2.354
1,177
.589
5,886
Special Tex
Others
2,346
.378
521
438
,479
554
109
4,825
Total
32,821
6,459
7,827
20,647
23,123
23,751
17.315
131,943
Inclosure  to OD
2
Heodquerters Eighth Army 21 Jan y 1948
date
1

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTIMATED REVENUE FROI T/XES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(MILLION YEN)
TOIYO
FINANCIAL BUREAU
Revenue
ESTIN/TED REVENUE
Total
TAXES
Collected
Estimeted
Apr-Oct
Nov
Dec.
Jen.
Feb.
Mer.
Apr-May
Collections
(Withheld
3,673
824
824
1,172
848
635
18970
Income Tox (Self-assessed
1,357
.477
370
1,256
2,931
3,030
3,669
13,090
(Totol
5,030
1,301
1,194
2,428
3.779
3,665
3,671
21,068
Increosed Income Trx
1,156
103
86
245
275
.352
55
2,272
Corporation Tex
497
224
194
307
.330
.331
421
2,304
Liquor Tρx
1,301
191
448
1,101
1,222
1,081
.665
6,009
Commodity Tex
909:
205
269
376
343
.290
.153
2,545
Admission Tex
.494
145
165
.209
229
.225
82
1,549
Non-Wer Sufferers
618
824
.412
.206
2.060
Specirl Tex
lothers
694
124
170
.143
157
1183
84
1,555
Totol
10,081
2,293
2,526
5.427 | 7.159
6,539
5,337
39,362
Inclosure 3 to OD
2
Hendqunrters Eighth Army _21 Januery 1948
date
-2-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTIMATED REVENUE FRON TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(MILLION YEN)
OSAKA
-FINANCIAL BUREAU
Revenuə
ESTIMATED
REVÉNUE
Totel
TAXES
collected
Estimeted
Apr-Oct
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
Mer.
prik-Loy
Colleotions
(Withheld
2,396
517
317
937
535
400
5,103
Income Tex(Self-Assessed
686
.125
82
995
11,068
3,348
5,170
11,474
(Totel
3.082
642
599
1,732
1,603
3,748
5,171
16,577
Incrersed Income Tax
.775
.119
.100
.283
.317
406
63.
2.063
Corporation Trx
489
.152
130
206
223
302
293
1.715
Liquor Tax
1,317
.163
.383
942
1,047
925
570
.5.347
Commodity Trx
754
,172
.226
315
288
243
129
2,127
Admission Tex
396
123
151
.191
208
205
74
1,348
Non-Wor Sufferers
318
424
212
106
1,060
Special Trx
lothers
659
50
67
57
63
72
54
1,022
Totol
7,472
1,421
1,656
4,044
4,173
6,113
6,380
31,259
Inclosure 3 to OD
2
Headquasters Eighth-Army
21 Jomucry 1948
date
-3-

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTIMATED REVENUE FRON TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(LILLION YEN)
SAPPORO FINANCIAL BUREAU
Revenue
ESTIEATED REVENUE
Total
TAXES
Collected
Estim ted
lApr-Oct
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
bir r.
April-ny
Colloctions
(Withheld
661
.146
.146
208
152
1,424
Income Trx(
(Self-Assessed
50
51
.135
.397
281
.351
329
1,594
(Tctol
.711
.197
,281
605
433
462
329
3,018
Incrensed Income Tax
146
12
10
29
32
41
6
276
Corporction Trx
31
21
18
28
31
31
29
239
Liquor Trx
27
31
73
180
200
177
109
1,009
Comodity Tax
76
28
37
52
47
40
21
301
dnissicn Tex
107
28
35
44
48
47
17
326
Non-Wer Sufferers
39
52
26
13
130
Specin1. Trx
Others
66
14
20
17
18
21
4
160
Tote1
1,426
331
474
994
861
845
528
5,459
Inclosure 3 to OD
2
Het dquarters Eighth Army 21 Jrnuery 1948
date
4

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
(MILLION YEN)
ESTIMATED REVENUE FRO TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
SENDAI - -- -FINANCIAL BUREAU
ESTDI/TED
Total
Revenue
Estimoted
Collected
TAXES
Apr-Oct
Nov.
Dec.
Jon.
Feb.
kor.
April-Lay
Collections
(Withheld
649
148
148
208
152
111
1,416
193
26
42
645
479
703
551
2,639
Income Tax(Self-Assessed
842
174
190
853
631
814
551
4,055
(Totel
257
22
18
52
58
75
12
494
Inoreased Income Tax
48
18
16
25
27
27
33
194
Corporction Tex
523
70
165
407
452
400
246
2,263
Liquor Tax
65
15
20
27
25
21
11
184
Commodity Tex
137
35
42
54
59
58
21
406
Admission Tex
120
160
80
40
400
Non-Wor Sufferers
Specis1 Tex
17.
24
20
22
25
10
190.
72
Others
351
475
1,558
1,434
1,509
824
186
1,944
Totel
Inclosure 3 to OD 2 Hec dquorters Lighth Army 21 Januery 1948
-5-

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
(MILLION YEN)
ESTIMATED REVENUE FROM TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
Total
ESTIMATED-REVENUE
Revenue
Estimated
Collected
TAXES
Apr-Oot
Nov.
Dec.
Jrn.
Feb.
Mor.
April-iav
Collectioni
217
217
315
227
174
1
2,051
Withheld
900
873
91
114
1396
2,014
1,740
1,009
7.237
Income Tox(Self-Assessed
(Totn1
1,773
308
331
1,711
2,241
1,914
1,010
9,288
374
36
30
84
94
121
19
758
Increased Income Tax
192
79
67
107
116.
135
110
806
Carporotian. Tox
626
79
186
458
509
450
277
2.585
Liquor Tax
399
103
136
190
174.
147
78
1,227
Commodity Tax
230
66
80
102
112
109
40
739
Admission Tex
240
320
160
80
800
Non-Wor-Sufferors
Spociel Tax
420
86
120
100
109
126
35
996
Others
3.675
3,162
1,649
17,199
4,014
757
950
2,992
rotal
Inclosure 3 to OD 2 Headquarters Eighth Army 21 Junuary 1948
6

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
ESTINATED REVENUE FRO
TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(LILLION YEN)
HI ROSHIMA - - - -FINANCIAL BUREAU
Revenue
ESTIATED
REVENUE
Total
TAXES
Collected
Estimted
Apr-Oct
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
lor.
April--cy
Collection
(Withheld
789
157
157
224
163
122
1,612
Income Tex(Self-Assessed 346
15
8
849
605
970
733
3,526
Total
1135
172
165
1,073
768
1,092
733
5.138
Increased Imeome Tax
227
21
18
51
56
72
11
455
Corporation Tax
91
29
24
39
42
45
50
320
Liquor Tcx
621
76
198
437
485
429
264
2.490
Commodity Téx
130
18
24
33
30
25
13
273
Admission Tax
133
38.
47
59
65
64
23
429
Non-Wor Sufferers
136
181
91
45
453
Specirl Tax
Others
167.
33
45
38
42
48
14
387
Total
2,504
387
501
11,865
1,669
1,866
1,153
9,945
Inclosure 3 to·OD 2. Headquarters Eighth Anmy 21 January 1948
-7-

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
ESTILATED REVENUE FRO! TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(J'ILLION YEN)
TAKANATSU
- - - - FINANCIAL BUREAU
Revenue
ESTIMATED REVENUE
Total
TAXES
Collected
Estimated
pr-Oct
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
Mer.
April-day
Collections
(withheld
302
59
59
84.
61
45
610
Income Tex(Self-Assessed
135
20
189
383
508
491
140
1,866
(Totol
437
79
248
467
569
536
140
2.476
Increesed Income Tox
177
19
16
45
50
64
10
381
Corporetion Tax
38
14
12
19
21
21
22
147
Liquor Tox
215
27
63
154
171
151
93
874
Commodity Tex
87
16
21
30
27
23
12
216
Admission Tax
72
18
22
28
31
30
11
212
Non-War Sufferers
74
99
49
25
247
Specicl Tax
Others
45
13
18
15
16
19
8
134
1,077
186
400
832
984
893
321
4,687
Inclosure 3 to OD 2 Headquarters Eighth Army 21 Janucry 1948
-8-

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTIMATED REVENUE FROM TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1947-48
(MILLION YEN)
KUMANOTO- - - - -FINANICAL BUREAU
Revenue
ESTINATED REVENUE
Total
TAXES
Collected
Estimted
Apr-Oct
Nov.
Dec.
Jrn.
Feb.
Mor.
April-liay
Colleoti
(Withheld
1,451
282
282
402
292
218
2.928
591
74
10
1,228
1,398
1,315
480
5,096
Income Tax(Self-Assessed
(Toto)
2,042
356
292
1,630
1,690
1,533
481
8,024
Increosed Income Tax
665
68
57
162
181
232
36
1,401
Corporrtion Tax
130
56
49
78
85
85
90
575
711
104
245
604
671
593
365
3,293
quor Tax
Camodity Tax
249
41
54
76
69
59
31
579
mission Tox
290
65
93
116
126
124
45
857
Nn-War Sufferers
22
294
147
74
736
Speciol Tox
Uhers
108
41
57
48
52
60
15
5An+-1
4,195.
733
945
2.935
3.168
2,833
1,137
15
Inclosure 3 to OD 2 Hendquerters Eighth Army 21 Janusry 1948

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF JAPANESE TAX ST RUCTURE
MINI STRY OF FINANCE
TAXATICN BUREAU
Osaka
Sapporo
amoto
Tekematsu
Hiroshima
Regional
Neoya
Regional
Sendai
Regionel
Regional
Financial
Financial
Regional
gional
Regional
Finencial
Financial
Financial
Bureau
Bureau
Finencial
Bureeu
Kinancial
Bureau
Bureeu
Bureau
75 Lodl
24 Local
51 Local Tax
Offiees in
OF LoeT.Tx
25 Loca1 Tax
Offices in
47 Local Tex
Offices in
Prefectures
51 Local Tax
Prefectures
Offices in
Offices in
Prefectures
Tax Offices
il Hokkaido
Offises in
Prefectures
Prefectures
Osoke
25
Prefectures
Aichi
17
Miyagi
8
Kyoto
13
oto
16
Kagowa
Ehime
5875
Hiroshime
Yeme guchi
lie
Shizuoka
10
9
Iwete
Fuku shime
11
9
Hyogo
18
11
Tokushime
Kochi
Oksyca
Tottori
Gifu
Toyeme
Akita
Aomori
7
8
Shimene
Yime gate.
8
Ishikawa
to OD
Heedquerters Eighth Army, 21 Jomr ry 1948
Date

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
Statee Pelitie
estitled "Military Gove
Japanese Tax Administratien".
Mippem Times: Feb 3. 1948
IMPROVEMENT SEEN
IN TAX COLLECTIONS
SCAP Spokesman Says Police
Must See That Laws Are
Strictly Enforced
SCAP Labor and Finance Divi-
sion officials said yesterday a de-
finite improvement in Japan's tax
collection program has been noted
since the National Tax Collectors
Union issued specific instructions
to its locals.
Officials were informed that
members of local unions through-
out Japan were reminded by union
headquarters on January 20 that
their duty as responsible Govern-
ment officials is to collect and as-
sess taxes directly as prescribed by
law.
James S. Killen, Chief of the
Labor Division in ESS, in com-
mending the union for taking lead-
ership in the collection problem,
emphasized that success of the na-
tion's tax program in part depends
upon the courage and industry of
the individual collectors.
He emphasized the "need for
local procurators and police to see
that the tax laws are enforced and
that these officials give collectors
the kind of support needed to per-
form an effigient job."
ESS Finance Division offcials
recently returned from inspection
trips to Kyoto, Otsu, Osaka and
Kobe, where diffculty in tax cols
lections had been reported. They
said a major cause of controversy
in the inome tax collections has
been the feeling on the part of
many tax offcials and the public
that taxes should be paid. only in
accordance with the tax-payers
concept of his own ability, to pay.
Henry Shavell, tax specialist in
the Finance Division...in calling
attention. to the, January, S1 dead-
line for fling returns on income
earned in 1947, said that many
cases of under assesspent had been
noted. In such cases, Government
tax authorities expect to issue re-
assessments during the first 16 days
of February, he explaimed.
day grace periód,

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 103
UNCLASSIFIED
MARA1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Tax Enforcement Authority of the Japanese Government
Over Non-Japanese Nationals Not Attached to the
Occupation Forces.
1
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a press article appearing in the NIPPON TIMES of February
10, 1948, incorporating a press release of this Headquarters on
the subject of the tax enforcement authority of the Japanese Govern-
ment. The enclosed press statement is part of the program of this
Headquarters and of the Japanese Government to clarify the author-
ACTION
ity of the Japanese Government in matters of taxation.
COFIZ3
The enclosure refers to two directives from this Headquarters
T0:
to the Japanese Government:: SCAPIN 777 of February 26, 1946 concern-
OE
ing the civil jurisdiction of Japanese Courts over non-Japanese
FN
nationals not attached to the Occupation forces, and SCAPIN 4938-A
of November 29, 1947 concerning the applicability of Japanese tax
laws to non-Japanese nationals not directly connected with the
211-3/
Occupation forces. Five copies of each of these directives are
LE
enclosed.
NA
7S
对
1948 FEB 26 PM 4 02
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Enclosures:
1. Five copies of press
RECEIVED
FS
article from NIPPON TIMES
LIAISON
DC/L
of February 10, 1948 con-
18
cerning tax authority of
Japanese Government over
non-Japanese.
7rc
2.
Five copies of SCAPIN 777
of February 26, 1946 con-
995  34
arning civil jurisdiction
070.9
Japanese courts.
S
3.ve copies of SCAPIN 4938-A
o November 29, 1947 concern-
MAR 1 5 1948
cla
thax laws to non-Japanese
mationals.
Treas-
851.2
RBFinn:cgf
OED Unit
Original and osalid to the Department.
B.
UNCLASSIFIED
Dist

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No. 1 to Dempatch No. 103 dated February 16, 1948
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser at
Tokyo on the subject of: "Tax Enforcement Authority of the
Japanese Government Over Non-Japanese Nationals Not Attached
to the Occupation Forces."
FICIAL CLARIFIES
striciet tnfoxcement seen
Beation
COLLECTION OF TAX
neals in SCAPs Economic and
Scientific Section that such pan-
Japanese nationals are subject to
Japanese taxes on yen imoónbe.
Legal Section Chief States
Cov't. May Attach Assets
clarification both of the tax liabil
Of Foreign Nationala
will result in stricter, enfereemel
of tax collections fróm the 
tionals.
Tax enforcement authority of
"Until now," they explaimed,
the Japanese Government, parti-
"tax authorities. because of que
cularily as it affects non-Japanese
tions arising over civil jurigdic-
nationals not attached to oocupe-
tion forces, was clarifled by
tion, have been overly tolerast in
enforcing collections from non-
SCAP's Legal Section.
Japanese nationals not attached
Alva C. Carpenter, Legal Sec-
to the occupation." They said
tion Chief, explained that as part
complete instructions have been,
of its civil jurisdiction over such
issued both to Japanese tam col-
nationals, including those of the
lection officials and the Military
United Nations, the Japanese Gov.
Government teams exerclsing sur-
ernment has the power to carry
veillance over Japanese tax eol-
cut property attachment mroosed-
lections.
ings and other tax emfoséement
Legal Section oféciale explain-
actions of a nom-criminal mature.
ed that tax authority of the Jage-
"This means," he said, "thet in
nese Government is besed onm twe
civil cases the Japanese tax au-
SCAPINs.
thorities may attach propertles or
SCAPIN 777. "Exerctee of Civil
impose tax liens an the seseke t
Jurisdiction," iasued February 28,
all pon-Japanese matiomala n-
1946, provides that all nen-Jape-
cluding Chinese, Franch, Dutch.
nese nationals including Uaited
Russian, American, British and all
Nations nationals not aétached to
other natlonals of the Uaited Ne-
vecupation forces are mubjese to
tions, for nem-payment of tamed,
the juriadiction of Japasese sourts
provided suah non-Japansse na-
in vivil matters.
tionals are not attactied to scsupe-
BCAPIN 4036-A. "Appleablt
tion forces."
A Untted Natioms hatienal wihe
ala." lequed Novamber 20, 2069
nese tax laws to nok-a

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure-No. 2 to Despatch No. 103 dated February 16, 1946
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser at
Tokyo.
GENCRAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRCIE COLEANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APC 500
AC 015 (26 Feb 46)LS
26 February 1946
(SCAPIN - 777)
LEHORNDULI FOR: RPERIAL JIPAIESE GOVTNN ENT.
THROUGH
: Central Liaison Office, Tolyo.
SUBJCT
: Exercise of Civil Jurisdiction.
1. a. Japanese tribunals will henceforth exercise no civil juris-
diction with respoct to United Nations naticnals or crgcnizations (including
corporations) attached to or accompanying the Allied Armed Forces.
b. Civil Clains against sucl: porsons or organizations will be
presonted to the Iuperial Japanese Govermment, Wiich, if it believes the
claims to be moritorious and supported by goo and sufficirnt evidence, will
forward them to the Supreme Commander for the lliod Powers.
2. a. Docisions in all civil cases afiecting other Uuited Nations
nationuls or organizations, or in vhich such natiónals or orgunizations are
or may becone parties, shall be subject to reviel, including revision or
such other action as may be considered necessary, by tho Supremo Commander
for the Alliod Powers or his authorized represont.tives.
b. The Suprone Com ander for the Allind Powers or his author-
ized represontatives vill tuke such steps us are deemed necessary, including
suspension of preco-dings, to cnsure that in the conduct of such civil cases
tho rights of the Uited Nations naticnals or organizations partios thereto
are adequately protected.
3. The Imporial Jupanese Govermint will innodiatoly report to the
Supreno Com ander for the Allied Powors, all civil cases hereafter instituted
or no pending in Jepa osc tribunals ffecting Unitod Nations nationals or
organizations (ineluding corporatians). Such reperts vill include names
and nationalitins of th parties, ature of the case, the relief sought and
the st.tus of the proceedings.
4. The Japanose people and :ll othor persons in Japan vill be informed
of this directive.
FOR TIE SUPRTE COLNDER:
Bnrteh
B. . FITCH;
Erigadier General, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
the Office of the Uaited States Pelitieal
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 012.2 (29 Nov 47 )ESS/FI
29 November
(SCAPIN 4938-A)
MNDRANDUM FOR: JAPANESE COVERN ENT
THRCUGH:
Centrel Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJECT:
Applicability of Taxes to Non-Japanese Nationals
1. SCAPIN 1826-A, dated 25 July 1946, subject: Applicabil1ty of
Ordinary Texes to Non-Japenese Nationels, is hereby rescinded.
2. There is no objection to the applicability of local and national
taxation to non-Japanese netionals except as specified in paregraph 3.
below, provided that such taxes are not discriminatory against non-Japamese
netionals. No tax, primerily designed to meet reparations or other oharges
falling upon the Japanese Government as a result of the war shall be imposon
by the Japanese Government upon United Nations nationals or their propertiom.
3. No tax will be imposed by tho Japanese Government on the offioial
selaries of military personnel, of civilians attached to the ocupation
forces, end of accredited personnel of foreign diplometic missions, dologati
and other officiel representation atteched to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powors. No tax besed upon or measurcd by income lawfully recoived
in non-yen currencios will be imposed by the Japanose Govornmont., This ahall
not howover bo construed to prohibit the taxation of, SCAP omployees or SCAP
liconsce omployees paid in yen currencics.
4. Diroct communication between thc Ministry of Finencc end intcrostod
steff scctions of this Heedquerters is authorizod to implomont the provisions
of this momorendum.
FOR THT SUR CCNDER:
7. SHUGART,
Eojonel, AGD,
Asst. Adj. General.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Division of Northern European Affairs
October 18, 1948
To : NA - Mr. Allison
From : NOE - Mr. Bll
301 61 940
There is attachad a note from the Finnish
Legation dated October 13, 1948 regarding a claim
against the Government of Japan. The facts briefly
are these:
W894
In 194l a Finn bought some fishing nets from a
Jap firm. Delivery being prevented by the war, the nets
were stored and insured against war risk. During an
air raid they were destroyed. Insurance in the amount
of 5000 yen was paid the Swedish Legation (acting for
the Finn) and a certificate for balance due 445,000 yen
was issued. The latter was allegedly subsequantly
confiscated through a "Wartime Indemnity Tax" of the
Jap Government. It is alleged that this tax was not
applied uniformly to all foreign assets. The Finns claim
that there was therefore a violation of a m.f.n. provision,
applicable to taxation, contained in a Treaty of Commerce
between Finland and Japan. U.S. good offices are sought
in bringing the matter to the attention of the appropriate
Jap authorities to obtain settlement.
1348
Mr. Claxton of O, whom I consulted, has suggested
that a copy of the note should be appended to a lotter
addressed to r. Sebald in which he would be requested
8
to take such action as he deemed appropriate and to
report results to the Department.
Do you agree with this suggestion? If not I would
appreciate your views. Ir this course is appropriate
would NA draft? NOE will, of course, be glad to do so
if you prefer.
Attachment :
Note from the Finnish
Legation dated 10/13/48.
EUR:NOE:JOB:dah
4018

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.94)
LEOATION OF FINLAND
WASHINGTON,D.C.
NOV - 2 1948
OCT 1 3 198
DIVISION
NOS
6545
October 13, 1948
RPVED
110V 82 1948
LIVIDNn OF
JCT211948
U1
2/10-1348
following:
Early in the year 1941 a Finnish businessman
Mr. William Metså purchased in Japan a quantity of fishing-
nets. The nets were fully paid for, but events later in
the said year prevented the shipment of these goods to
Finland. The fishing-nets were then stored at the warehouse
of the Japanese firm "The Miye Seimo Goshi Kaisha, Yokkaichi,"
CS/M
on behalf of the Finnish purchaser and insured against i. a.
war risk for 450,000 Yens.
When, in the fall of 1944, diplomatic relations
between Finland and Japan were severed, in accordance with the
Armistice Agreement between Finland and the Allied Powers,
Swedish Legation in Tokyo, being in charge of Finnish interest
His Excellency
The Homorable Rebert A. Levett
Asting Secretary of State
Engton, D. 6.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
2
in Japan, took care of the consignment referred to abeves
destroyed on the 18th of June 1945 and the Yokoham Specie Bank
according to the terms of the war risk insurance agreement, paid
5,00o Yens and gave to the Swedish Legation in Tokyo their interim
certificate for 445,000 Yens. This certificate was later exchanged
against a deposition certificate issued by the "Bank of Japan, in
accordance with the decrees covering war risk insurances, by which
decree the payments were frozen for a period of five years.
The Finnish purchaser was led to believe that the mmtter
of compensation was quite in order and that in due time he would
get the money, but by a letter dated August 6, 1947, from the firm
from whom the fishing-nets were purchased, the Finnish purchaser
was informed that:
.. . On the 15th July 1947, we wrote an enquiry
to The Japan Bank, Tokyo, to which, having had no reply,
we went up to Tokyo on 24th July to make enquiry. On the
25th, we approached The Japan Bank, where we were very sorry
to hear that the frozen deposit was already disposed as War-
time Indemmity Special Tax. As a fundamental principle, if
the application had been made by the 14th Dec., 1946, Yen
10.000.- for Company and Yen 50.000.- for Personality would
be excluded and the rest should be all paid as Wartime
Indemnity Special Tar. So, if the Swedish Legation hed net
applied on the 14th last December, you would have lef

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
to be paid. A few days ago, we received from the Japan
Bank a letter dated 29th July in reply to our enquiry. The
following are the key points of the letter.
#By the Insurance Paying Bank, the amount was deposited
under the tentative 5-year-frozen special deposit certifi-
cation of Japan Bank according to the Business Readjustment
Law. Later, this 5-year-frozen special deposit was abolished,
and the above deposit cert. of The J.B. was changed into the
Cert. of the Insurance Paying Bank. And, the Deposit was
put into national revenue as Wartime Special Tax Law except-
ing Yen 10,000 for Co., or Yen 50,000 for private personality
upon application. For foreign Firms or Private Personality
that have Nationality, if they are among those countries
written in the Article Ist of Property Tax Law, the Wartime
Indemmity Special Tax is not 1mposed. But, Sweden & Finland
are not found among such countries. So that, the deposit was
the object of Tax. For details, The Insurance Paying Bank, or
the 1st Section of National Tax, Tax Bureau of Financial
Department would reply upon enquiry."
The Finnish purchaser is of the opinion, and the Finnish
Authorities share his views, that the above described procedure
based on the provisions of The Wartime Special Tax Law, which Law
is understood to be a part of the internal Japanese legislation, is
not in accordance with the stipulations of the Treaty of Commerce
and Navigation between Finland and Japan, ratified on December 29, 1924
The Treaty, in Article I, Division 5, stipulates:
They (Finnish citizens) shall be at full liberty to
acquire and possess every deseription of property, movable

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
一4
or immovable, which the laws of the country permit or shelt
permit the citizens or subjects of any other foreign country
to acquire and possess, subject always to the conditions
limitations prescribed in such laws. They shall be permitsed
laws of the country. They may dispose of the same by sale
exchange, gift, marriage, testament, or in any other manner,
under the same conditions which are or shall be established
with regard to native citizens or subjects. They shall alse
be permitted, on compliance with the laws of the country;
freely to export the proceeds of the sale of their property
and their goods in general without being subjected as
foreigners to other or higher duties than those to which
citizens or subjects of the country would be liable under
similar circumstances.*
And in Division 7:
*They (Finnish citizens) shall not be compelled to pay
taxes, fees, charges or contributions of any kind whatever,
other or higher than those which are or may be paid by native
citizens or subjects or the citizens or subjects of the most
favoured nation.
*It is understood, however, that the citizens or subjects
of the High Contracting Parties shall have to conform themselves,
in respect of the foregoing stipulations, to the special laws,
ordinances and regulations of the country which are generally
applicable to all foreigners alike.
The Finnish Authorities are also of the opinion that the
above-mentioned Treaty of Commerce and Mavigation has been and as
in full force and validity, notwithstanding the fact that di

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
relations between Finland and Japan were, as stated,
of 1944; consequently, they feel that a citisen of Fimlam
Japanese legislation should be treated on the same basis as
of the most favored nation to the extent provided for in the
Commerce and Navigation.
The Finnish purchaser is further of the opinion that, as it
has been impossible for him to apply for the exemption of 50,000 Yens
within the time stipulated in The Wartime Special Tax Law because of
lack of communication facilities, he is at least entitled to payment
of the aforesaid amount as provided in the said Law.
Referring to the above and inasmuch as the Finnish Government
understand that the Japanese Government act under the guidance of the
Allied Council for Japan, I should feel extremely grateful if, through
Your Excellency's good offices, the viewpoints of the Finnish Government
should be brought to the knowledge of the Japanese Authorities concerned
and the decision of the Japanese Ministry of Finance in regard to the
applying of the Wartime Special Tax Law to the possible claims of
Finnish nationals and especially to the above-mentioned claim be adjusted
to conform with the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between Pinland
and Japan.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest
consideration.
SigundMemme

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
NOV191946
RESTRICTED
No. /86
894.512/10-1348
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
The Acting Seoretary of State transmits herewith a
note of October 13, 1948, from the Legation of Finland
pertaining to the application of Japanese tax measures
to certain Finnish property in Japan. The Acting Pelitisal
Adviser is requested to bring this matter to the attention
of the appropriate officials of General Headquarters with
a view to furnishing the Department with information to
serve as a basis of reply to the note.
In respect to the application of Japanese tax meas-
ures to foreign-owned property in Japan, it is the under-
standing of the Department that the offeot of the War
Indemnities Tax was substantially to cancel claims for
payment of war risk insurance, including claims evidensed
by certificates of the type referred to in the Legation's
note. It is further understood that in mscordanee with
the provisions of the War Indemnities Spesial Measures Law
Enforcement Regulations, exemptions from the application
of this law were granted to certain nationals or members
of the United Nations who are also exempt from the eapital
levy law. However, whereas the exemption of United Matiens
nationals from the capital levy law was in accordance with
a policy decision of the Far Eastern Commission (Peliey
Decision of July 18, 1946 on Japanese Taxation of Aliens),
it would appear that exemption of United Nations preperty
from the War Indemnities Tax was determined by the Supreme
OS/M
Commander pursuant to the responsibilities of the Supreme
Commander with respect to United Nations property in Japan.
For the information of the Acting Political Adviser
and for possible use in the consideration of the Finmish
request, there are also transmitted herewith copies of a
68
memorandum
512
OFPUNIT
RESTRICTED
Rov.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.88)
RESTRICTED
FE
memerandum of Mareh 26, 1947, frem the Lagatien
Department's reply te the Legatiom. It will be meted
most favored nation treaty with Japan.
Enclosures:
1. Note of October 13, 1948
from the Legation of
Switzerland.
J2.
FEC-232, "Japanese Taxation
of Aliens".
√3.
FEC-232/6, "Japanese
Taxation of Aliens".
212
NOV 15 19
NOV 18 194
RESTRICTED
EP
OFD:FN:OJMeDiarmid:erm
EE
NOE
RAY
FE1NA:RAFearey: fhh
gm
hoo.
m.
202.
11/1/48
200013
Bll
200
Diarmid

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
44120
ACTIO
is assig
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
FEB 241949
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
ON OF FL ATAIRS
Tokyo, February 3, 1949.
kDel
No. 69
FEB 2 31949
ORD COPY
OFFICIAL
Files
RESTRICTED
Feturn
; com-
SFD
STAT
Li
CH
when
ceted.
FE
OLL
DUR
CE
Subject  Application of Japanese Tax Measures to Finnish
J
Property in Japan.
894.512/2-349
EUR
914
10.1348
661
OFD:N
894512
FEINA
0
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to the
Department's instruction no. 186 of November 19, 1948, trans-
mitting a note of October 13, 1948, from the Legation of Fimland
in Washington pertaining to the application of Japanese tax meas-
ures to certain Finnish property in Japan.
The request contained in the Department's instruction wader
reference was forwarded to the Economic and Scientific Section of
this Headquarters, which has replied as follows:
"It appears that the Finnish claim (enclosure no. à to
Department's instruction no. 186) is so similar tothe Swed-
ish case (enclosures nos. 2 and 3 to Department's instrue-
tion no. 186) that subetantially similar language can be
used in a reply.
a. Finland like Sweden is not included in the
list of nations given exemption from the Was Indemmities
Special Neasures Law, and is, therefore, subjest to the
tax. Mationals of certain of the United Mations are
exempted from taxation as set forth in Artiole 2 of the
Capital Levy Law and in Article 1 of the Capital Levy
Enforcement Regulations. The same natienals are also
exempted from taxation om War Imsurance Claims by cer-
tain lavs and ordinances of the Japanese Goserament,
894.512
as follows: Article 4, para 4, of the War Iademaity
Special Measures Law: Article 7. para 2, of the War
Indemnity Special Measures Law Enforoement Regula-
tions: and Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 124,
Article 1, para 10, and Ordimance Mo. 130.
b. The request of the Finnish Mational is based
FEB 101950
upon the provisions of a most favored nation treaty be-
tweem Finland and Japan, ratified 29 December l985 and
referred to as the 'Treaty of Commerce and Navigation'.
However, it s submitted that the provisions of such a
treaty meed mot be revieved in this case.
c. Further,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
LEBa JA20
Tekyo's Despatch No. 69
Pebraary 3, 1949.
-2-
C. Purther, the opinion of the Fimmish Fetiemal
that 'he is at least entitled to paymeatt ef the se, ese
yen exemption from the tax, besaase lack ef cemmmmiestéen
facilities prevented filing withis the time limite epeed-
fied by lav, seems wntesable since the Swedish Legatien
in Tokyo was handling Finnish interests in Jages.
"The Comment of the Department of State to the offest that
exemption from the Capital Levy Tax was specifically stated as
a matter of policy by the Far Eastera Commiesios, wheress es
emption from the War Indemmities Tax was determined by the
Supreme Commander, is cerrect. In exercising this amthority,
however, the principles stated by the Far Eastern Gemmissien
with respect to the Capital Levy Tax have been felleved. The
primciple is stated in SCAPIN 4938-A as follows: 'Ne tax,
primarily designed te meet reparations or other charges falling
upon the Japanese Goverament as a resalt of the war shall be ise
posed by the Japanese Government upon United Mations Eatiemals
or their properties'."
Officials of the Economic and Scientific Sectiom, who take the
positiom that the provisions of the most favored nation treaty bes
tween Pialand and Japan are not applicable in this case, believe
that the foregoing statement will be found to constitute an appre-
priate reply to te Fianish contention.
236
RBFinn:gnd
Original and hectograph to the Department
grm
RETRICTED

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
46577
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, May 19, 1949
No. 319
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Reorganization of Japanese National Tax Administration
REC'D
MAY 23
874.50/4-2149
AGTION
OFD
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to refer to
INFO
894.512/5-1949
this Mission's despatch No. 245 dated April 21, 1949, entitled
FR
"Implementation of the Nine Poict Economic Stabilization Program
DGR
in Japan," and to make specific reference to the second point of
FE
that Program which calls upon the Japanese Government to "accelerate
ITP
and strengthen the program of tax collection and insure prompt wide-
OLI
spread and vigorous criminal prosecution of tax evaders."
L
COM
In accordance with the second point above cited, General Head-
TREAS
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, on May 4, 1949,
FRB
sent a memorandum to the Japanese Government calling for reorga-
nization of the Japanese national tax administration. A copy of
this directive, designated as SCAPIN 200l, is enclosed.
In brief, SCAPIN 2O0l calls for the establishment by the Jap-
894.5123
anese Government of a national tax administration as a semi-autonomous
agency of the Ministry of Finance. Under this proposal the regional
tax bureaus will be directly responsible to the new Tax Administra-
tion Bureau, and the 503 district tax offices will be under the super-
vision of their respective regional tax bureaus.
An indication as to the need for the reorganization of the
Japanese national tax administration is afforded by statements con-
tained in the following paragraph from a report entitled "General
Survey of Japanese Taxation," dated May 6, 1949, prepared by the In-
ternal Revenue Division, Economic and Scientific Section (Ess), Gen-
eral Headquarters, SCAP, for the Shoup Taxation Mission which ar-
rived here from the United States a few days after SCAPIN 200l was
issued:
"One of the major objectives of tax administration re-
form is the reorganization of the Japanese national tax
system, which has a total personnel complement of approxi-
mately 64,000. This system is headed by the Taxation
Bureau of the Ministry of Finance with personnel numbering
approximately 250 individuals. Eleven regional bureaus are
responsible in their respective areas not only for tax col-
lections (approximately 59% of each bureau's personnel),
but also for all other duties of the Ministry of Finance,
JUNS 1949
except the Monopoly Bureau. District tax offices, which
FILED
are
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN I4 DAYS, WITE A MOTATION OF AOTION TAK

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 319
May 19, 1949.
- 2 -
are almost completely indepndent of the regional bureaus
and the Ministry of Finance, now number 503. These district
offices have very broad, pr: ically autonomous powers with
regard to all matters relating to the assessment and col-
lection of txes."
A copy of the "General Survey of Japanese Taxation" is being
forwarded as enclosure to another despatch. Meanwhile, it will be
noted that, in accordance with SCAPIN 2OOl, the Japanese Government
is required to "provide tax personnel who are competent, qualified and
trained, insofar as possible, and adequate in number to administer
and enforce vigorously, but fairly, the tax laws of the Government."
In this connection, it may be noted that Mr. L. Harold MCSS, Chief,
Internal Revenue Division, ESS, reportedly stated at a press confer-
ence May 10 that "a government which permits an inefficient tax ad-
ministration to exist, thus fostering and encouraging unfair dis-
tribution of the tax burden among its citizens, is to be severely
censured." Mr. Moss is further quoted as stating, with specifilc ref-
erence to Japanese tax administration personnel, that "while there
are many able and conscientious tax officials...there are entirely
too many incompetent, inefficient, disloyal and even corrupt officials
in the tax service. These should be ruthlessly weeded out and replaced
with personnel of high moral and professional qualifications...immedi-
ately."
In order to attract qualified personnel, Mr. Moss reportedly recom-
mended the development of a career-merit personnel aystem and estab-
lishment among the people of the prestige and respect "which the tax
service justly deserves." Unless the Japanese Government assigns
priority to the problems of developing a truly professional tax ad-
ministration and enforcement systom, Mr. Moss reportedly warned, in-
equitable tax administration must inevitably continue.
While press reaction to issuance of SCAPIN 200l was limited, the
vernacular and Japanese-operated English language newspapers in Japan
have recently devoted much attention to the arrival here of the Shoup
Mission, the hope being freely expressed that the Mission would be
able, within the three or four months of its stay here, to effect
sweeping reforms in the Japanese taxation aystem with specific refer-
ence to reduction of taxes. A separate despatch on the Shoup Mission
is being prepared. Meanwhile, with final reference to SCAPIN 2001,
it may be noted that the Nippon Times. Tokyo, on May 13 reported that
the Cabinet on May 12 had decided to present to the Diet a bill to re-
vise the Finance Ministry Organization Law to provide for establish-
ment of the new Tax Administration Bureau. It was added that the new
Bureau, scheduled to begin functioning June 1, 1949, will consist of
four departments and ll local branch offices where revenue offices are
now situated. The 1l branches include Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo (2), Osaka,
Hiroshima, Takamatau, Kumamoto, Nagoya, Fukuoka, and Kanazawa.
Mr. Moss
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 319,
May 19, 1949.
-3-
Mr. Moss stated to an officer of this Mission that he be-
lieved the new Tax Administration Bureau would be established by
June 1, 1949.
Enclosure:
Copy of SCAPIN 2001 dated May 4, 1949,
entitled "Reorganization of National
Tax Administration".
501.2
CHBoehringer:rc
Rkm
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 319 frem
United States Political Adviser to Japan,
Tokyo, dated May 19, 1949 on the subjoet
UNCLASSIFIED
"Reorganization of Japanese National Tax
Administration."
(COPY)
GENDERAL H DUARTLRS
SUPHELE COMDMANDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS
APO 500
19 012.2(22 49r 49)335/1R
 May 2949
SCAPIN 2001
MEMORNDUN FOR  O
SUBJECT:
Recc.al
 M nel Pex Adcinistralion
cf
. Phe ne-Peo   eate Directive of 19
December 1948 directed the se vme  sop measures
designed, among other things, sceulerate and strengthen the
proeram es tex cellect  e prompt wrdespreed and vrler
ous eriminal prosescutf t ers. hoe obectivee s
well as the obgective af feur art epurtable tax aiminrstration, can
be attained mest efoeetiveay phr  the estabe ishment of a profes-
sionel tax system steffed, s posible, with personnel of
high meral und profess re rrions.
2. As a peart  e  ascomplish thes objectives,
the Japanese Governme il  be carllest posoible date bake
necessary measures:
rebe  Fx Ami
tration Bureau as an xucaa
 or he  niotratiof
national exation. h ure have coay e sutherity over
its regionel and Jocel uffiees o be rerpone I for sll vetional
taxation mauters except Uhose h pelew unler 
b. Transfer to the mied bureau all aation functions
of the present Taxat on pureeu, x ept those fun t ns dealing with
tax legislation and research perreining to tax legi lation. The
excepted functions siould be rstained within a Tx lon Research
Bureau, an internal ureau of he Ministry of Finance.
c. Divorce regulation of all matters alien to taxation
from the regional finaneial bureaus end reconstitute these bureaus
as regicnil tax offices and integral parts of the external Tax
Administration Bureau.
d. Transfer all functions alien to taxation of the regional
financial bureaus to such agencies as the Minister of Finance may de-
signate in accordance with the requirements for regional and district
administration and following the policy of simplification and consoli-
dation of governmental activities.
e. Retain
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclesure to
Tekye's Despatch No. 319,
May 19, 1949.
-2-
e. Retain the Customs Division, now in the Taxation
Bureau, within the internal organization of the Ministry of Finance.
f. Provide tax personnel who are competent, qualified and
trained, insofar as possible, and adequate in number to administer
and enforce vigorously, but fairly, the tax laws of the Government.
3. Direct cormunication between the Economic and Scientific
Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
and the Ministry of Finance regarling matters within the scope of this
memorandum is authorized.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M. LVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SIRVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
REC'D
for Japan
MAY 31
Tokyo, May 23, 1949
No. 330
ACTION
OFD ENC
UNCLASSIFIED
46820
INFO
Subject: Transmittal of Memorandum entitled
FR
"General Survey of Japanese Taxation".
DCR
FE ENC
AFEARS
GIVISION QF
OLI ENC
ITP ENC
COM ENC
The Honorable
TREAS ENC
The Secretary of State,
FRB ENC
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1XR
894.512/5-2349
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 319
YR
dated May 19, 1949, concerning the reorganization of the Japanese
national tax administration, and to enclose a copy of the memorandum
794.
dated May 6, 1949, entitled "General Survey of Japanese Taxation,"
cited in that despatch and prepared by the Internal Revenue Division,
Economic and Scientific Section (Ess), General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
As indicated, this memorandum was prepared for the special De-
partment of the Army tax survey mission headed by Dr. Carl S. SHOUP,
tax expert from Columbia University and special tex adviser to the
United States Treasury Department, which arrived here some 10 days
ago for a three to four month vi sit. The primary aim of this mission,
as stated by Dr. Shoup at a press conference held at Tokyo on May 19,
is to study the Japanese tax system and, as the result of this study,
submit recommendations to General Headguarters, SCAP, and to the Jap-
anese Government for the revision of that system. According to Dr.
Shoup, these reconmendations will be designed to reach the following
goals:
1。
To help achieve economic stability, in accordance
with the policy expressed in the Nine Point Stab-
ilization Program;
2.,
To provide Japan with a stable tax sy stem, one which
will not need to be changed for several years, ex-
cept for minor alterations;
3。
To remove any serious inequities that may exiet in
the existing system;
4.
To give financial support to the already accepted
policy of strengthening local autonomy and respon-
sibility; and
JUN 101949
:5.
Td
UNCIA SSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R. FILES

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 330,
May 23, 1949.
- 2 -
5. To facilitate the efforts that are being made to im-
prove the administration of the tax system and stim-
ulate the vigorous enforcement of the tax laws.
Further details regarding the statements made at the May 19
press conference by Dr. Shoup, hopefully designated by one Japanese
newspaper as the "alleviator of tax miseries," are given in another
despatch under preparation. The widespread attention directed in
the local press to his mission and the great importance attached
both by the Occupation and the Japanese people to the highly con-
troversial taxation question, ami! imperative to devote separate
attention to that aspect of the Shoup Mission and its work. It may
be added at this point that the Japanese Communists have, in recent
years, made political capital out of the so-called ineguitable taxes
and questionable methods used to collect taxes.
With respect to the enclosed "General Survey of Japanese Taxa-
tion," the index thereof affords an indication as to the subjects
covered. In general, it may be said that this survey contains a
clear and concise outline of the Japanese national and local tax
structure as it was developed prior to V-J Day ar: since. Data are
given with respect to tax collections for the 1947-49 fisc1 year
ending March 31, 1949, together with budgsted estimates for 1949-50.
Information is given with respect to tax adminisiralirn and enforce-
ment, including the part played by United Stabes ilitary Goverment
Tax Surveillance Teams, as well a: the operations of and revenues de-
rived by the Monopol. Lureau.
Attention is invited to the statements made (pages 9 and 10)
regarding taxes and national income, especlally becaus the Japanese
press has vociferously stated that the irpact of taxation vpon the
Japanese economy is much too great. liere is what the Ess tax experts
have to say on that subject:
"An extraordinary expansion of the ovep-ali Japanese
tax burden appears to have occurred since V-J Day. Temp-
oral comparisons of tax loads are sually made by cempar-
ing total national and local governient tax ccllections
with either the estimated total national income or gross
national product. While there exi sts some theoretical
contrcversy on the uestion as to whether tax yields are
more pro erly related to national income or to gross na-
tional product this controversy may be side-stepped in
Japan. As little basis as there is for the estimation 
national income in Japan, there is much less for estimating
the grcss national product. Because cfficial Japane se Jov-
ernment estimates of the national income are available, they
were utilized as a basis for making temporal comparisons of
the Japanese tax load. No brief is made, hovsver, oncerning
the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 330,
May 23, 1949.
the reliability of the national ilcome estimates. It is
Felt that the official Japanese Goverrment EsD (i.e., Econ-
omic Stabilization Eoard) nati. nal income estimates, while
they are known to involve large areas of arbitrarinese
ond valued judgments, are the best available at present.
It is hoped thet sueh ereer margins thes do estist ir the
netionsl incere estimates ars in the same direction in every
year and of roughly the sme magnitude. If smch is the case,
wore r lianre may be placed upon the reletive movement of
ta: Iurdens than upon tleir indicated absolute levels. A
comparison of nati nal and local tax revenues to the esti-
mated national Income for the fi seal years 1946-47 through
1949-50 indicales the folloving:
National
Tax
Taxes as  of
Income
Revenues
National Income
(bill.)
(bill.¥)
1946-47
392
41.7
10.6
1947-48
1,15
210.0
18.13
1948-49
2,461
331.5
22.63
1949-50 (prelim.)
2.974
784.6
26.43
It will be noted that the Internal Revenue Division of Ess be-
lieves that the "most suitable common denominator to wich taxes
may be related for purposes of temporal and int ernational tax bur-
den cemparisons is the net national produ:t (or national income plus
indirect business taxes) "
From the standpoint of the United States Governaent, i! is ob-
vious that the efficient and eguitable sollection of t xes by the
Japanese Government is of paramount importance for th. simpls reason
that taxes collected frem the Japanese peo le for Jepan's rehabilita-
tion represent funds which might otherwiae, to a certain extent, have
to be collected from the American taxpayer. It remains a moot point
whether the tax burden in Japan is now unbear lle, as clnimed es-
pecially by the Japanese Commuriste but al so by conservative elements.
Meanwhile, it is reliatly reported that the Shoup Mission is devoting
much attention to the question of the impact of taxation on the Jap-
anese economy.
In closing, it should be noted that the Shoup Mission is en-
deavoring to assist the Japanese Government in its atteapts Lo "ac-
celerate and strengthen the program of tex collectien and insure
prompt widespread and vigorous criminal prosecution of ax evalers,"
as provided for in the second point of the Nine Point Economic Stab-
ilization Program.
Respectfully yours,
att
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:
N
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 330,
May 23, 1949.
-4-
Copy of memorandum entitled "General
Survey of Japanese Taxation" (10 opies
to Department).
Parchment Mat to the Department
501.2
CHBoehringer:rc
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
D-330
ECONONIO MD CTENTIPIC HOT
Internal Revenue Division
GENERLL SURVEY OF JAPANESE TLAPION
The attached report is not intended as an eshaustive study of the
prevailing Japanese tax system. It is intended only as a meral
summary of the developments in national and local government taxation
since V-J Day. Further details may be obtained in the filea of the
Internal Revenue Division, Economic and Scientific Section, GHQ AP
Paragraph
Page
Contents
No.
NO
1
Development of the Tax Syatem to V-J Day'
5
2
Post-War Developments
5
a
2
Capital Levy and War Indemnity Tax Program
b
2
Personal Income Tax of April 1947
o
3
The Estate and Gift Tax
a
3
Transition to "pay-as-you-go" incom tazes
e
355667
Corporation Tax
f
Non-war Sufferers Special Tax
g
Simplification of National Tax Structure
h
Local Government Taxation
i
Commodity Tax
3
Sales Transactions Tax
k
Gasoline Tax
1
8
Liquor Tax
m
9
Textile Tax
n
Travelling Tax
9
Securities.Transfer Tax
6
9
Taxes and National ncome
7.- 10
10
Tax Collections
11 -12
12
Tax dministration and Enforcement
13 -14
13
Reorganization of Tax System
15--17
13
Prosecution of Tax Evaders
13
14
Investigations Unit
19 - 20
15
Military Government Fax Surveillance
21 - 22
16
Education and Publicity
23
16
The Monopoly Bureau
18
Description of Local Government Revenues
24
18
Introduction
25 - 26
18
Local Government Revenue Sources
27.-28
19
The Business Tax
29 -31
20
The Mhabitants Tax
32 - 34
21
Land and House Taxes
35
22
¿ámissions Tax
36
23
Real Property Acquisition Tax
37
23
musement, Eating and Drinking Tax
33
24
Other Revenue Sources
39
24
The Need for Revenue
Appond ix
山B
252
Personal Income Tax Rates
Commodity Tax Ratss
0
27
Liquor Tax Rates
D
26
Tax Burdene of Japan, 1946-49
四
29
Monthly Tar Revenues, 1949-49
30
SC.PIN 2001
G
31
Japanose Monopoly Bureeu
H
34
Revendés of Loeal Covoraments

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERL SURVEY OF J.P.NESE T.X.TION
1. Development of the Tax System. Prior to the twentieth century
taxation was characterized by exdessive dependence upon land taxes, with lis
concern for other revenue sources. It waa not until the turn of the century
that the tax system recognized the new forms of wealth created by urban coneenti
tion and the growth of industry and commerce. The personal income tax, although
first inaugurated in 1337, did not emerge as a significant producer of revenue
until the second decade of this century. During.1900-1930 the Japanese tax
aystem was developed in patchwork fashion, its major changes evolving chierly
as a result of emergency revenue demands created by wars with China and ussia
and by World War Is By 1930 the system had grown to fairly comprehensiv pro-
portions but was still overbalanced on the side of real-property taxation
2. During 1930-37 indirect consumption taxes rose to prominence. . Tobaceo,,
liquor, and commodity excises (including customs duties) aocounted for an averag
of 65 per cent of all tax revenues. Fiscal policy was framed in terms of low
taxes and deficit spend ing financed by borrowing. This reflected the Takahashi
financial plan for depression recovery. Mounting military expenditures neces-
sitated the reversel of this policy in 1937. With the North China affair-
developing into the "China affair," more and more "temporary emergency" taxee
were enacted to finance military expansion. s such temperary tax devices soon
proved fiscally inadequate, a more efficient mobilization of tax machinery was
seen to be indispensable to the realization of Japan's imperialistic ambitions.
This was the objeotive of the Tax Reform Law of pril, 1940.
3. The 1940 tax reform represented a milestone in the development of the
Japanese tax system. The income tax was given recognition, as the basic revenue
producer and emerged as the nucleus of the revised tax system. lthough pre-
viously applicable to both corporate and pensonal income, the income tax was now
restricted to personal levels, and a separato "corporation tax" was estebliahed
to tap corporate earnings. The l940 personal income tax was based essentially
upon the British and French income tax systems, since it embraced both a norm
tax (with rates differentiated as to source of incode) and a general surtax
all income. The newly oreeted conporation tax wes essentially

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
texes on net imcome, capital steck, and surplus prooseds at
atsons.
4. Perhaps the most notable contribution of the 1940 reform was in th
field of national- and local-government tax integration. The Tax Reform Iw
allocated specific tax fields for the axclusive use of each lovel of governmont
Local-governmont echelons were forbidden to levy additions upon all but four
national taxes (the housc, land, business, and mining-right taxes). Maximm
levels of local-government surtaxes upon the latter taxes wero presoribed; The
national covernment acted also as a collection egeney for local governments. t
'redistributed dosignated tax receipts in their entirety to local govornments, as
well us fixed proportions of the qnnual revenue from tho income, corporation,
admission, and amuscment taxes. Redistribution was based upon prescribed
googrephical tax-equalization fornulas.
5. Post-Wer Developments. Major developnents in the Japanese Pax fiala
since V-J Day may bo summarized as follows:
a. Capital Levy and War Indomnity Tax Program:. In excraordinary tax
·progran, consisting of a capital levy and war indemnity special tax, was on-
acted in the fall of i94ó. The capital levy was a non-recurrent tax on privately
owned real and intangible property with ret-s graduated from ten to ninoty per-
cent. The tax was collectible by 15 Fobruary 1947. Latost cstinato of the yield
of the capital lovy approximates 40 billion yen comparod to the originally ebti-
mated yield of 43.5 billion jen. The war indemnity special tax provided for the
virtual cancellation of over lo0 billion yen in claims against the Japanese
Government arising fron the war and unpaid as cf 15 ugust 1945. Thc tax was
made sffective as of 14 Docember 1946. Certain corollary moasures designed to
eas. the impact of those two taxes upon the economy (special bankruptcy procoed-
ings, etc.) were also providud for.
b. Personal Income Tax of  pril 1947: A radical change in the statú-
tory form and administration of the Japanese personal inccno tex was mado offee-
tive 1 pril 1947.  current tax payment basis (roughly similer to the United
States practice) was adopted for the first time. Withholding at source. pre-
viously limited to normal tax liability on salary and wage income, was inoreased
in scope to cover full income tux liability; withholding wue oxtanded at a flat
rate of 20% to dividend and interest peyments.  single graduatod tax rate
structuro was mado applicable to ali forms.of income, replacing the earlie
-2-
ESB-IR. GHQ. SCP (6 May 49)

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
aifferential rates applicable to speciric élasses of incos
cept of income was broadened to include capital gains as well 
and other forms of non-recurrent earninga. Except for minor changem in
and penalties, the basic tax law of 'pril 1947 is thet presently existing
(Soe p. 25 Appendix  for surrent rates).
c.
The Estate and Gift Tax: The estate and gift tax law was onaoted
in March 1947, and became effeqtive on 3 May 1947, simultaneously with abolition
of the earlier inheritance tax end the enforcement of the new Japanese Consti-
tution. Gift and astate components are entiroly separate and distinct, and are
 in no way integrated. Estete tax rates ere established in three differen't
scales based upon the rolctionship of heir and deceased and are gradueted from
10% to 65%. 4 basic oxemption of ¥ 50, 000 is pcrmitted. Charitable, educational
and scientific contributions are excluded from the tax base up to ten peroent of
the net value of the stace or y loo, ooo if smaller. Gift tax rates are gredu-
atcd from 15% to 65%, vith & busic lifetime exemption of ¥ 50, 000. Gifts valued
at less than  3, ooo pur donee per celendar year are excluded from the gift tax
base.
d. Trensition to "pay-as-you-go" income taxes: In sh ifting the personal
income tax to a current income basis a probiom erose concerning forgiveness of
1946 income tax liability due during 1947. Whereas 1946 normal income taxes on
earned income had been collected at source during 1946, all remaining tax
liability on 1946 incomes were still outstanding. The problem was solved by
the enactment of the Increased Income Tax ct of December 1946. This act, which
'provided for complete forgiveness of all 1946 tax liabilities due during 1947.
also provided for a one-time progressive tax upon substantial excesses of 1946
over 1945 personal income, exclusive of earned income. The tax mas imposed
during 4pril 1947, with rates graduated from 30% to 90%. The total yield of the
tax has approximated 9 billion yen.
e. Corporation Tax: The Japanese corporation tax has not as yet under-
gone comprehensive reforn. On V-J Dey, the tax embraced 4 tax elements: (1)
a normal net income tax of 35% applicable to domestio corporations, and 45%
applicable to foreign corporations; (2) an excess profits tax graduated from 10%
to 40% based upon current earnings over normal .period earnings or with respect
to invested capital; (3)  capital stock tax of 0.5% on capital stock and surplus
reserves; (4) liquidation proceeds tax (proceeds at liquidation or amalgamatipn
BSS-IR: CH4. 90P (6 Bay 49)

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
above face valué of capital stock) at 25 to 45%.
in March 1947. March 1948 and March 1949, the corporation tax et
three tax components: (1) net income of all corporations, domestie and for
taxed at 35% (a change in the enforcement regulations effective 1 May 1949 pro
vided for the exemption from tax of premiums obtained from the sale of newly
issued stock at higher than the face value amounts); (2) exoess profits tax
starting at 10% of that portion of income exceeding 30% of invested capital and
less than 50% of invested capital, a 15% tax on that portion of earnings exceed-
ing 50% of invested capital but less than lo0% of invested capital, and a tax of.
20% on that portion of eernings exceeding l00% of invested capital; (3) liquida-
tion proceeds taxed at rates of 25% and 45%.  form of partial integration of
personal and corporation income taxes was adopted effective 1 April 1948 wherein
15% of individual dividend income would be allowed as a credit against peraonal
income tax liability. 1/
1/ It has sonetimes been sugested that modifications of the corporation tax are
necessary in order to remove impedimonts to production and to attract both foreign
and domestic capital. s a means of examining these criticisms,'the Internal
Revenue Division asked the Japanese Government to consider the following revisions
in the application of the tax:
a. Elimination of taxes on the.difference between selling price and par
value of ewly issued stocks;
b.
Correction of tendency towards preferential treatment of newly formed
corporations having relatively large capital structures. - as opposed
to old estublished corporations having relatively small capital struc-
tures.
Elimination of taxation on paper prof its resulting from increases in
c.
book valucs of assets.
In presenting this request, the Taxation Bureau of the Ministry of Finance was
asked to submit plans for these changes, or, as an elternative, to submit
evidence that the changes were unnecessary or undesirable. In the several con-
fereaces on this subject, the Taxation Bureau maintained quite consistently that
the corporation tax wus not impeding production nor discouraging capital invest-
mont, that the rates were well in line with the personal income tax rates, that
the accounting rules followed were well understood by businessmen, and that many
proprietorships vere incorporating.
Subsequont investigation revealed that the Taxation Bureau was substantially
correct; and that numerous complaints to GHe were probably based upon the
higher rate structure in effect the previous year. While the Taxation Bureau
never became interested in improving the application of the tax, it did develop
a vigorous interest in ono method of equalizing the application of exeess profits.
rates as between old and now companies. This method, the revaluation of fixed
assets, was advocated and almost demended. but no adequate supporting data was
ever presented. Following detailed consideration by several divisions of sCAP.
including Public Finance, Price Control and Distribution, and Inti-Trust and
Cartels, the proposal for revaluation was unanimously disapproved. The reasoning
behind this disapproval is fu lly explained in the files covering revisior of the
corporation tax.
The one result growing out of this work is a change in accounting rules under
which the premium on sales of stock will no longer be taxable.
ESS-IR. CHQ. BC.P (6 May 49)

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
Non-war Surferers Spgoial Tair The non-we
was enadted in November 1947 for the express purpose of shifting
of'the post war tax burden upon those whose real property ascaped pir
damage during the war. The tax was imposed on a non-recurrent besis, dus
31 Jonuary 1943, upon both the owners and tenants of buildings, in inverme pro
portion to the extent of war damage sustained. While the express purpose of
tax was to spread property damage burdens on a wider soale, a more realistic
aim was to increase the tex burden-upon real property. The approximate yeild
of the tax was 6 billion yen.
g. Simplification of National Tax Structure: Since V-J Day a numbar
of former national taxes have been dropped from the national tax structure.
This has been done partly to simplify the national tax structure (elimination
of "nuisance" taxes where administrative costs were out of line with yields) and
partly to expand the taxation porers of the local governments. National taxes
abolished since V-J Day that vere not transferred to local governments vere:
Tax on Foreign Dividends, Special Dividend Tax. Building Construction Tax.
Speciel ction Tax (on haircut and beauty parlor services), Special Corporation
Tax 2/, and the Excess Profits Tax 3/. The following taxes vere transferred
from national to local government jurisdiction: 'musement, eating, and drinking
tax, Land Tux, House Tax, Hunting License Tax, Mining Right Tax. Business Tax,
and Amissions Tax. In addition to the above, the national Horse-Racing Tax
was abolished last year simultaneously with the establishment of a Government
monopoly in horse-racing. Profits derived from the Horse-Racing Special ccount
are in the neture of taxes, but appear in the budget as "transfera from Special
iccounts.
2 The Special Corporation Tax had been applicable to cooperatives, non-profit
juridical persons, and certain other quasi-public bodies. Concurrent with the
repeal of the tax, the Corporation Tax was emended to cover the same taxpeyers
covered under the Special Corporation Tax. A lerge and important segment of
the cooperative type of orgenization is, under existing law, afforded highly
preferential tax treatment.
3 The excess-profits tex as imposed at the personal, as well as the corporate,
level.  For corporations the tax was imposed upon profits in excess of the
average annual profit rate for the period 1934-36, or in excess of 10 percent
of average capital employed (stock par value, rorking capital, undistributed
profits, and designeted.reserves). For individuals owning unincorporated.
businesses the excess-profits tax was also imposed upon current profits in excess
of average 1934-36 profit rates. In the event that a baso-poriod profit rate
was indeterminato or unusual, other base standards vere substituted by the
government. Capital gains realized from real eatate transactione were added
to the scope of the tax in 1943. The tax as such was abolished in 4pril, 1946
ESS-IR, GHQ, SCP (6 May 49)
-5-

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
Local Covernment Taxation: a indic
Business and Mining Right Taxes were tranaferred in their entirety
government administration effective 1 April l947. The ausement, estir
drinking Tax, originally a local government tax, van trensferred in l939 to
national government administration with the provision that 50% be refunded to
local governments. This tax was returned to local administration effective
1 pril 1947. ffectiva 1 July 1943, the dmission Tax and Hunting License Tx
were transferred from netional to local government administration.  Liquor
consumpt ion tax (5% of alcoholic beverage purchase price) was nowly adopted
1 July 1943. 3ubstantial increases in rates have been successively made in
the Inhabitants Tax, Land and Housc Taxes, and Fusiness Taxes. The productivity
of the local government tax structure appuars to heve been substantially in-
creased since V-J Day, is shown in 'ppendix D below, Local tax revenues as a
percent of national income rose fron 1.0% in fiscal 1946-47 to an anticipated
.5.1% in fiscal 1949-50.
i. Coumpaity Tax, On V-J Day the Japanese Commodity Tax was applied
es a retail sales tax on a selected list of manufactured comaodities. Partly
as a result of the breakdown in public goralo folloving vartime defeat, partly
as a risult of an sccclerated increase in inf lat ionary pressures and in its
attendin& distributional disorder, and partly as a result of a breakdown in tax
administrst ion inefficiency, svasion of the comnodity tax reached unprecedented
proportions in the postwar period. In order to facilitase collection, the:
nethod of application of tax wes changed effective 1 Suptember 1946. The tax
was transferred from a retailer to a manufacturer level. The Commodity. Tax at
present is applied on an ad valorem basis to 5 groups of given comoditiss, and
on a specific basis to matches, wheat gluten, saccharine, dulcin, playing sards,
mah-jong sets and other items. d valorem rates range from 20% of the menu-
facturer's selling price to a high of l00% on "luxury type" goods (sea p. 26
pendix B for details).
3/ (Cont'd) Its basicccmpononts were not dropped, however, but wers integrated
with the psrsonal incomo and corporation taxes. in excess-profits tax on
corporations was continued without a break in continuity undur the heading of
the Corporation Tax for l946, but at reduced ratue. Capital gains on real
propertius were simultaneously nade taxable as e compouent of the porsonal
income tax. Excess-profits taxation on unincorporated búsinesses was abolisbed
however.
ESSIR. GHQ. SC.P (6 My. 49)

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
unéral account budget (March-Juno, 1943), it wad bolieved
Japanase tax structure would not of itself produce sufficient rove
genoral account expenditure requirements. In line with the balanced bu
polioy of SC.P, the Japanese Government was advised.that it should submit
tax legislation proposals that would permit a balance in the general account
budget for 1943-49. Accordingly, the Japanese Governmont proposed the adoption
of a l% tax to be applied to all.monetary transactions. at all levels of distri-
bution with the exccption of a number of specifically exonpt'categories 4.
The Japanese Government felt that it could not obtain the nacossary edditional
rovenue required for a belanced budget by risorting to further increases in
direct taxes, and that consequently it was forced to adopt a new indirpct tax.
The reaction of this office to this proposal was essentially a nsutral one.
The tax had advantages as well as disadvantages. In favor of the tax werg the
follovings (1) it vculd provide a revenue in the order of 2l billion yen for a
7-month pericd; (2) while the tax would (by pyramiding of the 1% rate at various
distributional levels) generate an estimated 5-7% price level increase; the tax
would probebly not cause an increase of more than 2 or 3% in the cost of living
level. Tho reason for this was that the tux was not to be applied on rents,
staple foods, and other selocted food products transactions; (3) the tax would
(by the adoption of a stamp payment device) 5/ permit a oreorefined basis for
the reassessuent of income and corporation taxes. The basis for this as that
the tax authorities could conceivably employ gross sales information (derived
fron an inspection of an individuel merchant's purchases of 1% sales transaction
tax stamps) for the checking of texable net income data.
4/ Certain items are spəcifically exempt fros tho tax such as export seles.
staple foods falling under the fóod control law, and transaction involving
government subsidies or price ad justments. other tax free seles include:
Sales of bullion to the government nint - including gold, silver, platinum or
their alloys; water; rationed products under the Temporary Demand and Supply
Law (Law No. 32, 1947); Salos of agricultural, forestry, livestock or marine
products - by the original producer; sales of sacuritios, transportation, and
horse racing each of hich is subject to specific taxes.
5/ The use of sales transaction stamps was introduced to aid in the adninistra-
tion of this levy. For transactions of 50 yen or more, the tex is prtpaiá by
purchase of stamps to be cancelled at time of sale. For transactions under
50 yen taxes are payable in cash on a quarterly return basis. The us of stamps
has assisted tax officials in deternining the gross incone of nuerous groups
which fornerly kept no accurate records. The tex provides ponalties up to 40
times the amount of atteapted evasion as well as imprisonment for a maxinum of
five years. To oncourage the taxpayer to demand cancglled stanps, the govern
ment gives rèbates ranging froi 2 to 5% of the stamp's face value mhen mubait
in bulk quantities by sohools or racognized charitable institutions.
7
IR.GHQ. BCAP (6 My 49)

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
the additionat revenue to be derived from this tax woul
disadvantages, this office offefed no objection to the Japanese
The tax was enacted in the sumer of 1948, and wms made effective 1
1948. The tax proved to be highly unpopular with business interestme It
apparent that businessmen opposed this tax not so much because of the a dai
bookkesping and tax colloction costs, but primarily becayse of a fear that tho
tax would roveal the incomo status of individual firms to tho tax authoritio
and that such information would be utilized inlringing about higher income and
corporation tax assossmonts. Bocause of popular oommarcial opposition to the
tax, tho Liberal-Democratic Party adoptod the ropoal of the Sales Transaotion
tax as a major plank of its platform in its cloction campaign in January and
Fobruary 1949. Following tho ostablishmont of a Dumobratic-Liberal Cabinot,
the Japanoso Govornment publinly stated that tho Transaction tax would bo ro
poalod in short order. Tho tax, howsyer, was not ropoalod. lts rotontiom
has boen nocossitatod by rovonuo neods, Ar amondmont cf tho tax was mdo by tho
Diot in hpril 1949. Additional oxomptions providod by.tho amondmont covoreds
loans by the Peoplo's bank, tho Ponsion bank, and pawn brokors; socond alase
hotol room chargos; boduty shop salos; salcr of marino produots subjoot to
Marino Products Distribution Rogulations; and othors. The use of stamps was
elimiatod: Bstablishmonts having gross sales undor 50,000 yon por month
woro oxomptod, as a moans of facilitating administration. The tax is paid. on
tho loth of oach month based upon the salos of tho procoding month.
7a

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
sponpored and the diet has passed a tat on gasoline. Thie
used during the occupation because relatively little gasßline hesb
for private consumption. The estimated yield for 1949-50 in 4.052 mi11
for the 11 months period beginning May 1. 1949. The tax as stated is l00%
ad valorem of the consumer rstailer price. Jor purposes of simplicity and
administrative axpediency, the tax will be based upon the consumer price per
taining to large quantity sales. Under this technique, the tex will be 1oog
of the 16,450 yen per kiloliter consumer price (for other than small purchases
 of gasoline) as against the 17,200 yen established price for snall quantity
sales. 6/ whild the tax will be borne by the final consumer, it will be col-
lected at the prime importation and domestic refinery points. t the present
time imported gasoline (which represents roughly 92% of total consumption) vill
be taxed at just two import points. In addition, s ince only 4 of the 3 domestio
producere of gaoline are currently producing, there will be 4 points of taxation
partinent to domestic gasoline. Thus, gasoline tax collecticns will be narrowed
down to 6 points in all. in allowance is made in the tax base to allon for the
cost cf leakage and vaporation loaseswhich exist between the prime points of
importation and final sales of gasolins.
1. Liquor Tax: Substantial increases in specific taxes applying to
beer, sake, whiskey, and wines have been made since V-J Day. s indicated in
ippendix D, belo:, the proportien of the national income absorbed by the liquor
tax has risen from 0.6% in fiscal 1946-47 to 2.2% in fiscal 1945-49. The
liquor tax has also been made a most important rovenue producer relative to
other taxes. In fiscal 1946-47, the liquor tax accounted for 5.5% of total
local and national tax revenue. In fiscal 1943-49, this percentage had risen
to 10.3%. The present liquor tax comprises 2 sets of rates, a "basic rate,
and "supplomentary rate". The bamic rate- is applicable to all alcoholic
boverage products, rogardless of whather the product is destined for rationed
or unrationed channels. The "supplementary" rate is imposed on top of the
"basic" rate for all products distributed for unrationed end use. Thile the
groat bulk of alcoholic bevarages was distributed through rationed channela on
6 Legal price of gsoline is now under revision as a fbsult of adoption of
the 360 yen to one dollar uxchangu rate.
B-IR GHQ: 90:P (6 May 49)

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
S0, only 28% of the total a1ooholto b
through rationed channels (now limited to essembial
"bàsio" tax Is colleoted by the manufaoturers while the "supple
collocted through the operations of the Liquor Distribution Kodan
distribution monopoly corporation). Current rates and prices are given in
dix C on page 27.
m. Textile Tax: With tho renowed post-war activities of the textil
industry in Japan, tho textilo oxcise has again bocome a significant revemue
ducer. The tax is in the naturo of ad valorem levy upon toxtiles reloasod for
domostic consumption. Tho rato is 40% on toxtilo fabrics (chiofly cotton and
silk) and 10% on cotton staplos.
n. Travelling tax: This tax has boon changed from a specifio to an
ad valorem lovy. The basic rate is 5% of ordinary passongar fares, plus 25% on
additional farcs for slcoping borths, oxpross trains and other such facilitie
o. Securitios Transfer Tax:
This tax is ad valorem lovy on tho trans
fer of stock, bonds and other nogotiablo oortificatos of indobtodnosss Tho rato
is 0.2% on stock transfors by brokors, 0.4% on stock transfors on othor stock
cortificatos at stock cxchangos, and 0.8% on stock transfors not involving stook
brokors and not transactod at stock xchangos. Othor soourity transfors aro
taxos at 0.1%, 0.2%, and 0.4%.
6. Taxes and National Incomo: An oxtraordincry oxpansion of tho over-all
Japanoso tax burdon app-ars to have occurrod since V-J Day. Tomporal comparisons
of tax loads aro usually mado by comparing total national and locai govornmont
tax colloctions vith oithor tho ostimatod national incomo or gross national pro-
duct. Whils thoro oxists somo thooretical controvorsy on tho question as to
whother tax yiolds aro more proporly rolatod to national incomo or to gross
national produot this controversy may bo sido-stcppod in Japan. 7/ Aa littlo
basis as thoro is for tho astimotion of national incomo in Japan, thoro is muth
loss for cstimating tho gross national product. Bocauso official Japanoso Govorne
mont ostimatos of tho national incomo aro availablo, they wore utilizod as a basl
7
In tho opinion of this offico, tho most suitable common donominator to whidn
taxos, mcy bo rolatod for purposos of tomporal and intornational tax b
bomparisons is tho not national product (or national inoomo plus indir
businoss taxos).
B8B - IB: GHO 8CAP

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
ing the roliability of tho mátlo
the ofrioial Japaneso Govornmont SB natienal meom
aro kmown to involvo largo areas of arbitrarinoss and valuod
bost attaineblo at prosont. It is hopod that such orror margins that
in tho nctional incoma ostimates are in the same direction in overy year an
roughly tho samo magnitudo. If such is the case, more relianoo mmy bo pleo
upon the relativa mevemont of tax burdons than upon their indicatod absolut
levols A comparisen of national and local tax revenue to the estimted ation
income for tho fiscal years 1946-47 through 1949-50 indicates the folloming
Taxes of %
National Incomo
Tax·Revenues
of national.
(bill. ¥)
(bill. ¥)
income
1946-47
392
41.7
10.6%
1947-48
1,151
210.0
18.1%
1948-49
2,461
531.8
21.6%
1949-50 (Preliminary)
2,974
784.6
26.4%
(For dotails seo Appendix D).
7.. Tax Collections:.
The national ond locnl taxes collected during fiscal
years 1946-47 and 1947-48, and the estimated collections for 1948-49 are summar-
ized as follows:
Table I.
Estimation: (3)
National Taxes
1946-47
1947-48
1948-49
(In millions of yen)
Incomo
12,173
(79,363)
(190,271)
Withholding
27,698
76,271
Solf-Asscssed
51,664
120,000
Increased Income Tax
5,700
9,000
500
Corporation
1,269
7,463
26,500
Li quor
2,331
27,401
55,000
Commodity
2,214
8,367
717,508
Tobacco (Monopoly)
7,645
41,875
95.032
Sales Tax (1)
20.500
∴dmissions Tnx (2)
1,042
5,665
4,120
Other Taxos (4)
5,512.
10,860
24,956
Totals
37,886
189,993
441,152
Prefeçturdl and Local Taxos:
Inhabitants
156
6,625
18,632
Land
292
896
3,290
House
298
717
4,326
Businoss or Enterprise
854
6,404
27,808
Admissions (2)
3,218
Ronl Property Acquisition
275
1,260
Amusement, etc.
499
Automobilo
60
360
Other taxes
1,913
3,319
Totals
3,828
20,080
ESB-IR, GHQ. SCAP (6 Mo

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
ails moe Table 2 below.
8. s in other countries certain amounte have been od
 Metional Government and distsibuted to to prefeotural and losal
the form of shared taxos and subsidies. The total sums rodiatrit
rsdistributed) in this manner amount to:
1946-47
17.6 billion yen for
1947-48
52.0 billion yen for
1948-49
118:8 billion yen for
1949-50 (budget)
139.7 billion yen for
If theso amounts aro applicd te tho sums shown in the table, the foll
centago rolationships botween original tax colleotions an'd final distr
1948-49
ere established:
Lovel of
Orig
Coll.
1946-47
Final
Dist.
Orig.
Coll.
1947-48
FInal
Diat.
Orig. Final
Coll. Dist.
coll
0710
Governmont
91
47
91
66
85
61
81
National
34
17
39
19
9
55
Profectural & Locni
22%
25%
44%
% Chango
Perhaps it should be emphasized that relationships such as the foregoing
be used with groat caution. The classifications of rovenuo as woll as
tical procodures, in general, ere not highly developed in Japan.
9. Tax revenues budgeted for fiscal yoars 1948-49 and 1949-50 1n the
general account budgot are givon below:
Table II
National Tax Rovenue Budgetod for Fiscal Years 1948-49
& 1949-50 (millions of yen)
1948-49
Rovenue Sourco
183,488
Personal Income Tax, total
(61,271)
Withholding
(122,197)
Self-assessed
18,056
Corporation Tax
1.260
Estate & Gift Tax
46,778
Liquor Tax
Bort Drink Tax
Sugar Exoiso
10.090
Gasoling Tax

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
meurities Transfor Tax
190
4.639
atamp Revenues
4.035
dmissions
2,010
Othere 1
316.096
514,666
Sub-Total
94.353
120,000
¿dd: Tobacco Monopoly Profit
410,449
634,660
Total
500
1
Increased Income Tax
54
Special Corporation Tax
387
Non-war Sufferers Tax
424
Horse Race Tax
145
Excess Profits Tax
Total
2,010
10. Details of tex collections by months for the 1943-49 fiscal year
including collections up through 19 pril are set forth in ppendix E p.29
4 comparison of collections for the first three quarters of the year with
the last quarter discloses that two-thirds of the 1947-43 tax revenues (as
against one-half of the 1943-49 tax revenues) was ccllected during the last
quarter of the year. The self-assessed income tax has presented by far the
biggest collection problem. Only 12.5% of the budget goal for the self-
assessed income tax had been collacted at 31 December l947 and only 33.2% at
31 December 1943.
11. Tax Administration and Enforcement: Although cartain modifications
in the iax laws are obviously still necessary, it has becóme increasingly
clear that the besic problems of Japanese taxation lie primarily in the fields
of tax administration and enforcement. Many of the tax laws which on the
surface appear to meet aquity standards have failad to do so because of
inadequate and cumbersome assessment, collecticn and enforcement methods.
12. In pril 1948 an official of the United States Treasury. nternal
Revenue Survice, was recruited for the primary purpose of surveying this.
.field. As a result of this survey, qualified and experienced taxation person-
nel were recruited, on a loan basis from the U. S. Bureau of Internel Revemue
and certain selected state and municipal governments, for duty with this Hoad-
quarters and the Eighth Army; an Internal Revenue Division of Ess was establi
shed, and negotiations were completed for a mission, to be headed by Dr
Shoup of Columbia, to 7 isit Japan on or about 1 May 1949-for tho purp
ESB-IR. GHQ, SC.P (6 May 49).
-12-

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
conduoting an overall survoy of the Japanese nationel, pr
tax struotures.
13. Reorganization of Tax System: One of the major objectives af
administration reform is thə reorganization of the Japanese national tax
which has a total personnel complement of approximately 64,000. This syst
is headed by the Taxation Bureau of the Ministr/ of Finance with personnel
numbering approximately .250 individuals. Eleven regional bureaus are responsi-
ble in their reapective areas not only for tax collections (approximately 55%
of ach bureau's personnel), but also for all other duties. of the Ministry of.
Finance, except the Monopoly Bureau. District tax offices, which are almoat.
completely independent of the regional bureaus and the Ministry of Finance,
now number 503. Thase district offices have very broad. practicelly autonomous
powers with regard to all matters releting to the assessment and colloction of
taxes. Thus, responsibility within tho existing organization is vury difficult
to place. Spocific plans for the reorganizatiou of the Taxetion Bureau have
been laid out for the Japanese Government in a recent directive (Sc PIN 2001.
4 May 49, Memorandum For Japanese Government, subjeot: Reorganization of
National Tax ministration of the Japanese Government, see p. 30, opendix ).
14. Present plans contemplace the establishment, on or about 1 June 1949.
of a national tax administration as a semi-autonomous agency of the Finance
Ministry. Under this proposal the regio al tax bureaus will be directly
responsible to the Tax Bareau, and the 503 district tax offices will be under
the supervision of their respective regional tax bureaus.
15. Prosecution of Tax Evaders: Enforcement of the tax laws has been
notoriously weuk. Not a single known case of conviction or punishment for
income tax evasion had ever been reccrded in Japan until November 1947. • When.
questioned on this point, Japanese officials replied that criminal punishment
for tax evasion was contrary to their philosophy of justice. Under 1946 and
earlier tax laws, furthermore, it would have been extremely difficult for the
Government to prove evasion or fraud. t any time prior to actual indictment,
a suspected tax evader could heve confessed his guilt, paid the evaded amount,
and absolved himself from further punishment".
16. Concurrent with the formation of the Internal Revenue Division in
ESS two steps were taken to strongly implement enforcement-measures:
IBS-R. QEQ. SC:P (6 May 49)

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
mingle proourator assigned specifically to the extrece
blems of tax evasion cases. During that month, under pressurer
Attorney Generál appointed 63 procurators. These were assigned so
prefecture in Japan as well as regional offices of the Procurator Goneral
Since the establishment of this group, for the first time in the modermh
of Japan, taxpayers have beon sentenced to prison for income tax evasion.
Despite these convictione, however, no one has as yet been imprisoned due to
the fact that all prison sentences have been appealed, and trials are now
pending in the High Courts and in the Supreme Court.
b. In September 1948. a "National Tax Inspection Division" of the
national tax service was formed. This division has operated fron the Minis-
try of Finance and Regional Bureau levels, and has cooperatad vith the 'looal
tax offices in gathering data and investigating tax ovadera. For the first
six months of operation, it was responsible for over 6 billion yun in addition
al taxes which might not have otherwise been detected. With the expension and
increase in tho efficiency of this enforcement arm, substantial benofits, both
direct and indirect, should result. It is expected that the indirect benefits
vill fur outeigh the diruct benefits because. of the great increase in volun-
tary taxpayer compliance which should be prought about by a strong anforoement
and prosocution aru of the eervice.
17. s the result of the cooperation of the tax officials and the pro-
curators, thero have bean, during the past four months, 94 indictments for
direct tax evasions, and 17 have been given prison sentences by the District
Courts, two of which have been affirmgd by the Hih Court. It is believed
that as soon as more of these cases huve been tried and final prison sentenoes
announced by the Supreme Court, and proper publicity given, there shall be a
groater voluntary compliance by taxpayers under the self-assessment system.
18. nvestigations Unit: One of the greatest needs in the reformation
of the Japanese tax systen is thó development of a systam of assessnent based
on the application of the rates provided by law to the actuel taxable net
income of the taxpayer.  the present time practically all the assesanents
of the solf-assessed incom tax re eithar arbferary and:nothing more then
guosses on the part of the tax collectors or else are besed on
SIR.QHQ.0(6My49)

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
sh improvotent over tpe arbritrary
aituation present plans call for the: establishment by the1
National Tox Investigators with an initial authorised complemont of.
investigators. The National Tax Investigators will be part of the
Tax Inveatigation and Inspection Divisions of the oleven Regional Tax Bu
ll ef the incone tax and corporation tex returns over a fixed amount whieh
has not as yet boen set will be transferred from the local tax offices to the
Regional Tax Burcaus for investigation by the National Tax Investigators.
ctual investigations of the ruturns will bo made and ruports subnitted to the
local tax offices for assossuent and colieotion of the amcunts due. The looal
tax offices will not have authority to chenge the amount of the tax as deter
mined by the National. Tax Investigators.
19. Militery Government Tax Surveillance: In Jenuary 1948 Military
Government tax surveillance teans Were established in all regional MG Head-
quarters and every prefecture to assist in the problen of tax ccllections.
Material was sent to then outlining tho nature of their duties as well 'as a
brief survoy of the Japanose tax systen. These teams visited local tax offices
as often as possible and noted the progress of tax collections and deterained
the reason for collections falling below established goals. Collections rose
fron approxinately 34% of the budget goal as the start of Military Government
surveillance at the nd of January to 100% of the goal by 16 pril 1948.
Military Government has boun one of the important factors in collccting lo0%
of the 1943-49 budget goal by 1 pril 1949. The major benefit derived fron
Military Governnent surveillence of tax adninistration apparently has been the
prestige which it gave to tho tex collectors. Tho mere praseuce periqdically
of illied officers in Japanese tax offices is often sufficient to bring about
an extraordinary cxpansion of tax oollections in that area.
20. Six United States Internal Revenue gants and one local government.
specialist have recently been assigned to duty vith Military Governnent. regichs
and teans in various parts of Japan. They will supervise and coordinate the
tax survsillanco activities hich at the present time are linited to national
taxos.  conference for Ess/Internal Rovenue personnel and Righth ruy rogit
tax surveillanc: personnel was held during January 1943 and it is plannod to
hold sinilar conferences at regular intervals. The tax surveillance,
-16-
ES8-IR. GHQ. SC2P (6 May 49)

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.95)
dation and publiaity: One of the a jor requireat
tex ayetem to break away from the antiquated nethod of
and collection is the adoption of a broad program of training, both for
collectors and taxpayers. Publicity efforts have boon oxpanded to indoak
the taxpayer on such mattera as the necessity for taxat on; the manner and
of filing returns, and penalties for failure to pay taxes. Sohools recoive
frequent revenue information presunted in an appealing fashion, giving details
of the more important tax lovies. Prysent omployee training programs have bee
and areobeing drastically expanded. Increasing enphasis is to be given to
intensive courses for larger number of employees rather than long coursas for
a small nuibor of individuals.
22. Beauuse the tax field has not been èble to draw largo nunber of highly
qualified personnel, due primarily to their relatively low pay, a'cereer-merit
aystem, which will have as one of its objectives the placing of quelified
individuals in their proper places, will soon be ostablished. Encouragenent
will be given to all tex officials to denonstrate their ability to perform
the work of positions requiring higher qualifications than their present jobs 
By making the tax service attractivo co qualified individuals, by building
up an esprit de corps among its personnel, and by intensivo training of its
employees, it is believed tht the major obstacles to an efficient- Japanese
tax administration - personnel" - can ultimataly be overcona.
23. The Monopoly Bureau: The Japenese Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of
Finance controls the production and distribution of Tobacco, Salt and Camphor.
of the above three items tobacco is the only one that is controlled for the
purpose of obtaining revenue. Salt and Canphor are controlled because of
short supply. ll tohacco growm in Japan or importad into Japan rust be sold
to the Monopoly Bureau. The Monopoly Bureau acts as manufacturer and wiole-
salor of all tobacco products. The retailers are licensed by the Monopoly
Bureeu and are allowed a reteilars profit of lo% on rationed tobacco and 4
on froo sale tobacco. See p.s1, ippendix G for further dotails?
18-
IR.GBQ0P(6M.49)

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
UNIT BILLIONN
501t
Carphor
Tobaoco
1.067
- .056
-.001
1.125
1943-44
1.243
-.0016
.128
I.373
1944-45
946
-.0033
969
.120
1945-46
7.388
737
-.0115
3.137
1948-47
41.616
-.692
一.0422
42.350
1947-48
94.923
.0300
.398
94.500
1943-49
116.434
-.1340
-3.700
120.000
*1949-50
Est ineted

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
1sdividad 1nto 46 pron
 pu and km are commonly applied. When used in thta
Tokyo-To, DO means the Island of Hokkaido, FU refers to Osaka awd
d kw covers the remainder, or 42 prefeotures. When all prefeoturee 
referred to as one group, the word key may be applied. The prefeotures in
are divided into 217 cities, 1802 towns and 8,480 villages. The boundarie
cities, towns and villages are mutually exclusive; there are ne sehool distri
and few, if any, special districts are believed to exist. Cities must have a
population of 35,000 persons, 60% of whom live along regularly outlined strestm
towns are said to be small cities and in practice none of them exceed 35,000
population although they might legally do so. Villages encompass the areas most
similar te the "rural" classification used in the United.States. The major
cities are not divided into wards except in the case of Tokyo where 23 wards
exist.
25. Local Government Revenue Sources: In Japan se statistics, both the
prefectures and the cities, towns and villages are freguently referred to as
"Local governments". If a distinction-is made, the term "prefeotures and other
local governments" is apt to be used. The tax system, in itself, encouráges the
joint classification since the total tax rate is commonly divided into two parts
the prefectural rate and the city, town or village surtax rate. Generally
speaking, taxes may be divided into 3 classifications: Independent taxes, non-
legalized taxes and special purpose taxes. For example, on independent prefeo-
tural tax is one initially levied by the prefectures. Non-legaliz-d taxes are
those for which specific controlling provisions have not been established in the
law. Special object taxes are believed to indicate minor amounts, collected in
the form of taxes, for specific uses.
26. : The table in Appendix H on page 34, classifies direot collections of
prefectural and local governments for the five year period 1945-46 through 1949-
5Q. As indicated by this table, the. percentage of total available monies
collected through direct taxes fell to 11% in 1946,47, inoreased to 20% in' 1947-
48, 34% in 1948-49 and is expected to readh 43% in 1949-50. If we include al1
local recoipts other than borrowed money, the low point of 34% was reached in
1947-48, inoreased to 44% tho following yoar and is expected to reach 54% in
1949-50. The changes in percentage impórtance of borrowed menies as wol1 a
shared taxes and national subsidies bear an universe relationship to th

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
blihed substantially during the fourth year and aro expeobod to
est point in l949-50. While numsrous sources exist, majo. portiopa
revenue have accrued from a few items. For examole, it is estimted th
of locel tax collections for l949-50 will be derived from 6 sources, memely
Business, Inhabitants, Land and House, Admissions, Real Property Aoquisition
Amusement taxas - in the order named. Two of thesa sources, Admissions and
ment taxes, occupiod the same position. in 1948-49 when thoy first become ava
for direot administrction by local govornmonts; the othor four souroes have be
important throughout the five yeer poriod. During the same interval, the In habe
itants tax becamo tho second lorgost producor ond the. Land and Houso Taxes de-
clined to third placo. Other comparisons are readily availebla from the tablo.
27. Tho Businoss Tax: The businoss tax has boen the most consistontly rell
ablo rovonue producor during tho five yoar pariod l945-19ã0. Tho ostimated ro-
coipts from this source for 1949-50 emounts to 49,500 million yon or more than
twice the amount estimatod from any other sourco. The tax rato appliod to ooppor
atien and other business income is 15%, but local governmants mey inoreaso the
rato to 18% with tho Approval of the Local Finance Committee and mey go higher
provided additional approval is obtainod from the Minister of Financs. (Figuraa
for 1948-49 raportad by tho Iocal Finance Committoo indicate an 18% rate in.29
profoctures, a 15% in 15 profoctures and a 22.5% rato in on  profocturs) Tho
forogoing ratos apply to tho first catogory which includos ordinary corporations
and unincorporoted businessos and accounts for approximately 87 of tho businoss
tax revonuo. In the second catogory applying to agriculturo, aguatic induatrios,
forostry and spooial logal porsons, tho standard tax rato is 10, but in 1948-49,
tho cctual ratos amountod to 12% in 29 profectures, 10% in 15 profeoturos and 18%
in ono profocturo. For occh catogory the total ratos quotod abovo aro commonly
divided oqually botwcon tho profocturos and tho citios, towns or villagos in-
volvod. In some instances, howovor, tho "surtax rato" for tho city, town or
villago has oxcondod tho "indep ndent rato" for tho profooturo. In 1947-48, the
highest ratio of. division was 4 to 1 and in 1948-49 the highost ratio was 2 to 1.
In tho latter casc tho profecture recoived 1/3 ond the dty, town or villago ro-
ocivod 2/3 of the total racaiots from tho ontororise tax.
28. In tho caso of ordinary corporations and unincorperated businossos tho
ourront yoar's ontorpriso tax is lovind on the basie of last yoar's taxablo
¿omo. In this mannor, tho work of the National tax officials is ytilised

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
liability. No adjustmónt is mado for
For an ordinary corporation tho tax baso is the toxablo
paymont of corporation and businoss taxos. The corporction tax cannot
as an oxponse in computing taxablo inoomo for tho anterprise tax, but the
priso tax is troctod as an expense (loss in Japanose parlanco) in computipé
(1)
In applying the anterpriso tax to individual
corporato tax liability.
porsonol incom tax return is utilized, but the basic deduotion and the dopon
crodit allowod for income tax purposes are not allowed in computing ontorprise
tax liablity.
29. The Inhabitants Tax: In terms.of revonue, tho inhabitants tax is
sccond only to the business tax. Thero is no fixed rate for the tax, but rathor
a standard rate is proscribad with tho provision that it may bo excoaded under
certain conditions. For 194s-49 the standard rate was 900 yen, or 450 for the
profocture and 450 for the city,. town or village. For 1949-50, the standard
rate will be 1450 yen, 70? for the prefecture and 750 for the city, town or
villago. During 1948-49, 24 of tho 46 prefectures were imposing more than tho
standard rato, the maximum baing 675 yen. t the samo time, about half of tho
cities, tovms and villegos wre using tho standard 450 yen rato and tho majority
of tho remaindar wero below 675 yon, but a fow wero using ratos as high as 1,125
yen per taxpayer.
30. The standard rate does sorvo as a benchmark in one sonse. The produot
of tho standard rate and the estimoted number of taxpayers cannot be exeeeded by
more than 50% in the caso of the prefecture (and l00% im the case of cities,
towns or villages) without securing approval of the Prime Minister. A taxpayer,
for purposes of the inhabitants tax, is (1) any rasident who koeps his own house
or makes a living without keeping a house; (2) any person owning an office, place
of busihoss or homo sito; and (3) any juristic persen owning an office or bus-
iness place within the governmentel unit. According to the Local Financo Com-
mittee, the tax is levied upon approximately 16,000,000 parsons of whom 95% aro
individuals and the remainder cre legal persons.
(1) The maximum Corporction Tax rato is 55%, i. 9. 35% normal tax and 20% xodmm
profits tax. The cffect of trenting the enterprise tax as on expense in
computing corporeto tax liability is to reduce the combine corporate and
enterprise tax rate from 70 to approximately 62.5%.
ESS-IR, QHQ, SCAP (G Ma 49).

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
antioe soame to vary considerably, the prafe
a amount of profoctural independent tax to be collectad fr
town or villago (by multiplying the rate timoe the estimated number of
The partiouler city, town or villago mkcs a similer celoulation and
amounts togothor. The ontiro amount will thon be dividod into 3 partar (i)
fifth to bo dividod oqually among the total number of taxpayers; (2) twostit
to be divided in proportion to income; and two-fifths to b? dividod in propurt
to the. valuo of property owned. The inhabitants tax paid by an individual
include ono, two or throo of tho componont pants doconding upon his oircumstanos
but he pays tho tax for only one person. On the othor hand, a furistio permon
having two officos in a single govornmontal unit may be troeted as two porsons
taxed.nccordingly.
32. Land and Houso Taxes. Thoso lovies are assessod on the rontal velue
of tho property rcther than tho capital valuo as.in tho United States. Rental
valuo assossmonts are mado evory 10 ycars with the most rocont one having beon
complotod in l938. In viw of tho long dolay in ro-dotermining rontal valuos, it
hns been nocessary to increaso tho tax ratos in ordor to produce any signifioant
amount of rovenue. For 1947-48 the ratos wore 100% for both.land and house:
for 1948-49 the land tax rato was 200% and the houso tax rat, was' 250%;.for 1940
 50 the tax rato will bo 500% for both lands and houses. Apparently thoso rates
can be exceoded in praotico, but approval of the Primo Minister must bo obtained.
At the timo the 1948-49 budgat was propared, it was estimeted that Land and House
Taxes would yield 6.3 billion yon or approximately 9% of the total local govern-
montal rovenue. At the present time, it is estimeted that 8.6 billion yen will
bo produced, or epproximatoly 9.5 of the total revonues collected by looal governs
monts. This figuro may b compared with the 33% of local tax colloctions said
.to have boen recaivod from this source in pre-war years. While the. income from
these sourcos is expected to approximate 14.6 billion yon in 1949-50, the peroen4
toge of total local collootinns will incraase less than 1/2 of one porcont over
the provious yoar.
33. Basically tho declino in productivity of these taxes is due to tho
abnormally low cedlings placed upon rontals. These coilings have increpaed
sovon times since tho base poriod of 1s30-34 wherens the price of rioox for
exmmpls, has inorecsed 132 timos, or moro. Inoreases in tax rates h

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.87)
tozow, empaoiallyath
Beling reaach lies in tho land rnform progrem
Hatma were divided end sold to farrars ut extrembly lom b
tai deilings might have an advorse ffact upun undacided lat mas
werious landlon ds. it is expected, however, that almopt alz pta
bo corcludod durirg 1949-50 thereby 6liminating this objeotton
ravision of the runtal values. Somc improvement in the sitmatied
in 1949-50 through a progrum inltiated by the Ministry or Finamdek
byt ae Looal Finunce Committee. Under this proposnl, the rontal
yoar. It is maintainbd that malradjustments in this group of valum
mire zerious than in any othor groun, nd thap the resulta outatred
qxtromely ucefil in cavrying ut the orerall revislon et agme laterd
rever tho Tamtion Eureau has irdicctd  hut fallowing those adjuatae
yleld of Land ond House Tazes could to inroaced to 30 billfun. yeml
aithout.croating too aerious inequalities.
1/ 34./ The basic rebords, the land ledgers and the houce ledz
 halned by the Nationel Governmont in ite distriot tax offIces, Tn
by aay means aro removod. In recording such vwalues the lewala at h
occasionclly indicated that theas r corde should ts turped oyer
Mitlonal Govorimant has mirtciped the opposite vieupaint.yTh
nd durt  mell on an othor taa

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
tola hae dooroasod sinoo tho admini
to the lobal government. This is espopially
aat that much of the national govornmont's ostimate bas bean
delinquent taxos since the administration of the tax was given to the to
governmonts. As a matter of fact, the payments on delinquent taxoe
notianal governnont have sometimos been givon priority ovor tho ourrent
due the local governmonts. For 1949-50 the estimated yield of this tax fs 1
billion yon. Both Japanose and Americen picturo distributors havo complaino
that tho 150% rato has decreased movie attendance to'd significant degroo.
ever, the figures submittod by those agencies covor a fixed numbor of thoator
whereas tho total numbor of moving picture thoaters has inoroased considorably
during the pariod coverod. orsover, no allowance has been made for the faot
that large incronsos in attendanco following the war and tho r esumption of pi
turd making, could not be mairtainod indefinitely. It is beli wod that a con
sideration of all the fuctors involved would indicate that littae or no deoronn
in total attendance has resulted from the high tax rato.
36. Real Property hcquisition Tax: This tax applios to the aoquisition
of both lands and houses. In the caso of lands, the rato is 20%for sm1l
housss not oxceeding 15 tsubos, or 540 square feet of floor apace, the rate 1
10%; for largor houses the rate is 20% The tax is paid by tho purohasor of
the property. Whilo the ratos soom high, no complaints havo boen roceivod by
tho Dividion rogarding this tax. For 1949-5 the ostimated yield is 12.5
billion yen.
37. Amusement, Eating and Drinking Tax: As a rovemue producor, this tax
ranks 6th in importance for both 1948-49 and 1949-50. The largo inoreaso in
yiold from 3.2 billion in 1948-49 to 12.4 billion yon in 1949-50 is based to 
considórable dogreo upon tho ro-opening of restaurants. If, for some reason
the restaurants should not bo officially opegod, tho yiold will undoubtedly
decreased by 40 tó 50% This tax was originally a local government tax but
transferred to tho National Governmont in 1939 with tho provision that 80
the yield was to bo raturned to the locel govarnmonts. As of April 1947
returned to tho local govermments for administration. Tho rate

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
With the exoontied of
auseod in the preceding paragraphs, no other tax produces as much
total tax revonuet odllactod by local govornmonts, Or those not
oussed, the 5% liquor consumption tax is estimmted to produco 3.7 billt
automobilo tax 3 billión; cnd the oloctricity and gas tax 2.8 billion
complote information on these and othor taxes can be submitted later.
39. Tho Need For Rovonue: Prefootural and other local offioials mve
fraquently complainod that ava:lable revanuos aro inadequate, but they have opn
sistently failed to produce the svidence necessary to prove their contentions
They havo pointed out thot many of their revenue sources are difficult to admin-
ister and that their chief source, the enterprise tax, is largely dependent upon
tho administration of national incomo and corporation taxes. They havo argued
thot tho percentage of the income and corporation taxes now distributed to looal
governments should remain constant unloss it could'be increased. In addition
thoy have stated on numorous occasions that the reatrictions on bond issuem shout
be ronoved so.that local governments could borrow unlimited amounts of money.
Finally, they have maintained thet the effect of national tax policies coupled
with the allocation of responsibilitios has placed a disproportionate burden upon
profoctural and local governmonts. Horo again the videncc nocessary to evaluate
the position taken hcs not been submitted and, thus far, has not been obtained
by any other method. Cortainly it is highly desirable thet local governmonts
becomo loss dependent upon tho national govornment through the development of a
more adoquate revenuo system. The development of land and house taxos to momo-
thing approaching thoir pro-war lovol would be a major step in this direction.
At the samo time the allocation of responsibilities deserves considerable invest
igation with c viow to dotermining tho suitability of oxisting allooations ns
woll-as tho dosirability of any changes which maybe. proposod in the future.
8 Incls:
Appendix  - Porsonal Income Tax Rates.
B = Commodity Tax Rates.
C - Liquor Tax Rates.
n
D - Tax Burdens of Japan, 1946-49.
20
 = Nonthly Tax Rovonues, 1943-49.
F - SC IX 2001 dated 4 May 49.
G - Japanose Monopoly Buroau.
-Rovonuos of Local Governmonts.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
(of1249)
20%
20,000
40,000
25
20,001
70,000.
30
40,001
100,000
35
70,001
150,000
40
100,001
200,000
45
150,001
250,000
50
200,001
300,000
55
250,001
60
500,000
300,001
700,000
65
50C,001
70
1,000,000
700,001
2,000,000
75
1,000,001
5,000,000
2,000,001
85
and up
00,001
2. Maximun effuctive rate is C0% of nct income
3. Decuctions na crecit:
a. Eerncd income ccauction: 25% of first 150, 000 yen of ross
earned income.
Basic deducticn: 15000 yen per te geyer eductsć irom "ross
taxable income.
c. Credit for dependents: 2,800 yen per cunencent as credit egainst bex.
Cupitcl cains are texed as other income after a reouction of 50%. No
carryovers or corrybacks.
5. A credit of 15% of dividenc income is alloweo arinst peruonal income tax
liability.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
100%
golf acce
plepsurc, pocr
Photographic fila,
80%
recorcs, musical inst
ci:arette li.hters, toflat
artieles.
Electrio fans nnd stoves
50%
.C
erators, fus and
ture, clocks, watohee
ar.liances, stattoders
lscquer ware, etc.
Radios, elcctric bulbs, calou
30%.
D
machines, tyrowritors, cupligat
machines, sewin- machines, prten
teas, safety razors, ebc.
Telephones, car ets and rus, sho
20%
E
rolishes, tonics, soccs, sead
insecticides, festive chohstick
stc.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
Retail
ho2
price 1/
%of
per sho
Retail
price %
Special
354
554.79
66.2
848
1,063.33
16
Class
257
448.46
57.3
647
850.67
16
Sake lst cless
180
346.75
51.9
422
601.01
70.2
15
Sake 2nd cl=s
177
323.63
54.7
350
508.56
68.8
15
Imitation Sake
6559
58.6
317
480.81
222
379.11
20
Mirin
53.8
257
416.08
61.e
174
323.63
25
Shochu
76.2
63.8
261
342.45
126
197.58
14
Beer
74.9
73.1
2,250
3,005.00
1,800
2,462.50
Whiskey lst clees 43
72.8
67.6
1,042
1,430.79
704
1,042.25
2nd cless 40
70.4
62.1
824
1,171.83
4E4
780.28
3rd class 40
actual retail price of sake special class is $ 600.00 and 1st class is
¥ 485.00 for.rationed distrihution, while epecial class sake is ¥1,150.00
and 1st class is : 920,00 for frec sale).
2 100 sho - 180,391 liters.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
1946-47 194748
392
1,151
2,461
tignal Income (1)
210.0
531.8
41.7
Tax Revenues, Total
196.3
National: (2)
79.4
12.2
Income Tax
2.3
27.4
55.0
95.0
Liquor Tax
7.6
42.0
130.4
24.9
Tobacco Monopoly Profits
15.8
41.2
All other
6346
190.0
447.2
37.9
Total National
20.7
150.0
3.8
20.0
b. Total I.ocal Taxes (3)
26.45
21.6%
3.
Taxes as % of Nat'l Income,
10.6%
16.1%
Total
10.4
National:
3.1
6.9
8.1
2.2
Income Tax
0.6
2.4
2.2
3.6
3.9
4.0
Liquor Tax
1.9
4.7
3.7
Tobacco Monopoly Frofits
4.0
3.5
All Other
21.3
17.9
16.4
9.6
Total National
5.1
3.7
1.7
1.0
b. : Total Local Taxes
(1) Source: Latest ESB fiscal year estimates (20 April 1949)
(2) Settled account data for. 1946-47 and 1947-4C. Latest colleetion estimote
(2 May 1949) for 1948-49. Budget estimates for ,1949-50.
(3) Same as note (2).

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
MONTHLY REVENUR OF TAXES AND STAMES FOR 1648-1949
TAXIS
April
May
June
July
August
Sept.
Uct.
Nov.
Dec.
Accum.
Jan.
Feb.
March
Accum.
April
Tatal
1549
Tr tel
Uatil
Inceme Tax
10th
withtrlding
3.179
4,294
4.633
4.036
3,817
4,621
5.379
5.425
8,045
43,430
10,294
9.373
10.630 73.727
1.498
Self-Assessment
72
2,423
2,111
4,271
7.743
3,263
4.468
9.507
6,491
40,349
10,968 25.709
30,239 107.265
3.072
Total
3,251
6,717
.6.744
8,307
11,561
7,885
9.847
14.932 24.536
83,779
21,262 35,082
40.869 180.992
4570
Cerpcration Tax
130
647
1,019
881
.1,230
1,430
1.525
1.443
3.560
11,864
2,656 4.466
5,488
24.474
1,033
Liquer Tax
600
1,273
1.855
2,683
3.595
3,656
3.714
4,270
5.837
27.438
6,873
8,749
9.581 52,686
1,190
extile Tax
225
540
600
628
707
634
874
924
1,349
6.471
888
1,302
1,869 10,529
344
Ceuandity Tax
124
772
891
1,019
1,210
1.373
1.472
1,381
1,830
10,073
1,626
1,983
2,361
16,064
589
Treansactfon Tax
5
254
320
654
1,234
632
745
2.321
4.932
393
(Mash Revenie)
Ačm:maion Tax
109
514
800
826
813
650
154
57
38
9.961
40
74
42
4.117
5
uthere
212
485
565
848
729
1,071
889
69c
1.131
6,620
939
1,162
2,414
11,134
1.131
Tetal
14.640
20,9248
22.475
15.122
19.845
16,704
18,729
24.016 28.936
151,486
34.915 53.563
64.965 304.928.
9.255
ransaotion
Stamp Rev.
86
1,373
1,712
1,761
2,830.
7.762
1,861
2,229
11.852
2
Rev.
230
260
300
313
296
227
361
460
621
3.068
505
624
4.196
GRAND TUTAL
4,870 -11,208
12,774
15.505
20,227
18,304
20,802
26,237 32,3862.315
37,281 56,416 64.965
320.976
9.255
1murem in the parentheses shew amrunt in Budget.
anue is. the amrunt as of the end of February.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
APO 500
G Q12.2 (22 Apr 49) ESS/IR
BCAPIN 2001
MEJORANDUM FOR: JAFANESE COVRNMENT
SUBJLCT:
Reorganization of National Tax Administration of the
Jarenese Government
1. The Fine-Point Economic Stabilization Directive of 19 December
1948 directed the Jaranese Government to edopt measures designed, among
other things, to "accelerate and strengthen the program of tax collection
and insure prompt, widespread and vigorou criminal prosecution of tax
evaders." These objectives, as well as the objective of fair and eguitable
tax administration, can be attained most effectively through the establish-
ment of a professional tax system staffed, insofar as possible, with per
sonnel of high moral and professional qualifications.
2. As a part of the program to accomplish these objectives, the
Japanese Government will at the earliest possible date take necessary
measures to:
a. Create within the inistry of Finance a Tax Administration
Bureau as an external bureau for the administration of national taxa-
tion. This bureau should have comrlete authority over its regional and
local offices, and be responsible for all national taxation matters except
those shown below under b.
b. Transfer to the created bureau all taxation functions of the
present Taxation Bureau, except those functions dealing with tax legislation
and research pertaining to tax legislation. The excepted functions should
be retained within a Taxation Research Bureau, an internal bureau of the Mini-
stry of Finance.
c. Divorce regulation of all matters alien to taxation from the regional
financial bureaus and reconstitute these bureaus as regional tax offices and
integral parts of the external Tax Administration Bureau.
d. Transfer all functions alien to taxation of the regional
financial bureaus to such agencies as the Minister of Finance may designate
in accordance with the reguirements for regional and district administration and
following the policy of simplification and consolidation of governmental activi-
ties.
e. Retain the Customs Division, now in the Taxation Bureau, within
the internal organization of the Ministry of Finance.
f. Provide tax personnel who are competent, qualified and trained,
insofar as possible, and adequate in number to administer and enforce vigorously
but fairly, the tax laws of the Government.
3. Direct communication between the Economic and Scientific Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers, and the Ministry
of Finance regarding matters within the sccpe of this memorandum is authorized.
FOR THE SUFR-ME COLMANDER:
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel,AGD,
Adjutant General

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
TOR FILE:
SUBJCT: Japanese Monopoly Bureau.
1 Organization.
a. The Japanese Monopoly is a Bureau of the Ministry of Pinance
respnsible for the crccuction, manufacture and distribution of tobacco, sa
and camphor products. For administration of these duties the monopoly is bro
down as follows:
Head Office, Tolkyo
16 Local onopoly or Regional Offices. These offices have supervi-
sion over two or more provinces.
600 Branch offices. These offices are directly responsible for sale
distributicn and in some instances the manufacture of. tobacco products and salt.
The offices ti:at are located in tobacco growing districts are also responsiblo
for the rurchase of leaf tobacco.
Total number of employees of the monopoly is 40,000. This includes
administration, sale and manufacturing.
b. As of 1 June 1949 the Monopoly Bureau will change over to a public
corporation under control of the Ministry of Finance. The new Monopoly Public
Corporation will be a juridical person of public law but, it will not be
considered a commercial company vithin the meaning of articles of the Japanese
Civil Code. The main reason for changing the Monopoly Bureau to a cublic
corporation is to change the status of personnel so they will not be coneidered as
public servants.
2. Tobacco Section.
Of thc three commodities controlled-by the Monopoly Bureau, tobacco
is the most important as a source of revenue. The laonopoly Bureau is the manu-
facturer, distributor and wholcsaler of all tobacco products.
The Monopoly Bureau issues license to the farmer to grow tobacco and whon
the tobacco is harvested the farmer is required to sell all of his tobacco to
the Monopoly Bureau. The Monopoly maintains and operates experimental farme 
growing leaf tobacco. Improved methods of cultivation, use of fertilize
curing are passed on to the farmer free of charge.
There, are cight re-drying factories for re-dryin

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
In all sootions of Japen. During wórld
 Japan suffered approximately 60% damage. Since 1945 1t
228 operating machines to 576 machines.. Anticipated manufaoture 
1949-50 wil1 be 66 billion units as compared with 71 billions in 1939
production for 1948-49 was 55 billion units.
Tohacco products are shipped.from factories to Monopoly Branch officea
These offices then cistribute them to licensed retail stores. Retailers are ali
10% commission on rationed brands and 4% on frec sale brands. There is a standard
ration of 60 pcs. of low grade tobacco per person per month. All other cigarettes
and smoking tobacco (high priced brands) are unrationed.
3. Salt.
Salt is controlled by the Government due to short suprly, and because it
is a critical item in the daily diet of the Japanese peoples.
Most of the salt used in Japan must be imported. The demand for fiscal
year 1949-50 is estimated at one million, six hundred thousand motric tona. One
million two hundred thousand m/tons will be imported and four hundrec thousand
m/tons will be produced locally.
Loyally produced salt is made by evaporating sea water. There are no
salt minos in Japan. As electric power or coal is necessary for this evaporation
process, and there is a critical shortage of both electricity and coal in Japan,
thc production of indigenous salt is very uncconomical. In the rest year 400
plants were eliminated because they used more than 1.3 m/t of coal or morc than
10,O00 kWH of electricity to produce l m/t of salt. Most of the indigenous salt i
produced by private companies licensed by the l'onopoly Board.
Selt used in the manufacture of oaustic soda is sold to the manufacturer
below cost price. This will result in an indirect government subsidy to this
industry in the amount of ¥3.7 billion for fiscal year 1949-50.
4. Camphor.
Carphor is controlled because of short surrly. All raw camrhor is pro
duced by private companics but must be sold to the government. In this way the
government can control the cutting of camphor trees. It takes 40 years g
a camphor tree to give thc best yield.
The rw eamphor is refined for the Goverpment by prive

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
Salt
Camphor
Tobaccò
- 1,033
-56,684
1,125,174
1943-44
1,643
128,397
1,373,084
1944-45
-3,376
969,503
120,120
7;388,56
1945-46
8,187,165
787,006
-11,591
41,616,1
1946-47
692,416
-42,246
42,350,808
94.728;812
1947-48
30,000
398,812
94,300,000
116,361,432
(1)
1948-49
61,432
-3,700,000
(2)
1949-50
120,000,900
(12)
Subject to,minor corrections
Estimated
William Bass
Chief, Monopoly Misc Revenues

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
REVANUES OF LOCAL GOVARINA
Fiscal Years 1945-46 thru 1949-50
(Millions of yen)
Indopendent Prefectural
1245-46
1946-47
1247-18
xes and Surtaxes There-
Inhabitant Tax
108
156
6,625
18,632
Land Tax
131
292
896
3,290
House Tax
125
298
717
4,326
Business or Enterprise
383
834
6,404
27,808
Special Income Tax
765
Mine Lot Tax
1
5
97
465
Mine Products Tax
968
Admissions Tax
8,218
14,088
Liquor Consumption
1,831
3,748
Electricity & Cas
1,927
2,891
Vessels Tax
1
3
37
582
593
Automobile Tax
8
.60
360
2,516
3,000
Railway Line Tax
32
84
109
Telephone Subscription.
290
1,080
1,053
Electric Pole
15
46
163
350
350
Real Froperty Acquisition
81
275
1,260
8,008
12,510
Timber Trade Tax
861
1,149
Fishing Right Tax
2
16
54
122
122
Hunter Tax
1
7
44
272
409
Service Gir!, tc.
9
Amusement, etc.
499
3,166
12,431
Bath Taking
45
360
540
Non-legalized Taxes
949
874
834
Misc. unassigned
107
1,834
251
Totr1
963
3,828
18,481
86,756
144,295
2. Independent City
Town & Village-Taxes
Boat Tax
42
150
214
Bicycle Tax
363
903
1,425
Cart Tax
232
535
595
Safe Tax
28
99
128
Electric Fan Tax
6
Butchery Tax
20
43
55
Dog Tax
36
Advertisement Tax
15
46
59
Service Girl Tax
42
72
Employees Tax
146
194
Non-legalized Taxes
188
454
663
3. Special Purrose Taxes
DO & Prefectural
282
823
1,123
City, Town & Village
287
658
987
Total Tax Collections
963
3,828
20,080
90,655
150,000
Fees & Rents
517
1,500
5,760
11,541
17,900
Others
1,083
8,722
8,709
15,462
20,100
Loans
411
3,143
15,105
26,578
23,300
Total Direct
2,974
17,193
49,654
144,236
Shared Taxcs
1,086
2,542
19,669
49,339
National Subsidies
1,517
15.143
32.302
GRAND TOTAL:
5,577
34,878
101,632
263,017
ESS-IR CNC SCAP (6 MayY 49)

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
46%
41%
34s
Bub. Total
15
7
53
50
49
55
Total. Direct
20
7
19
Shared Taxes
27
43
32
National-Subsidies
100%
100%
100%
100%
Grand Total
Notesr 1. Figures for 1945-46 and 1946-47 are from tabulations prep
K. P. Sanow, Internal Revènue Division. 1947-48 and 1948-
submitted by the Local Finance Committee as of 1 May 1949.
1949-50 figures are GHQ budget figures.
2. Figures for first three years presumably rcpresent final collect
reported by Prefectural and other local governments; 1948-49
are estimated collections; 1949-50 figures are estimated budg
receipts.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
DATB:7/21/49
SUBJECT:
Encloses and discusses memorandum of June 8, 1949 by Henry
Shavell, Deputy Chief, Internal Revenue Division, ESS, GHQ, on
the subject "Japanese Taxation of Commercial Entrants". Also
enclosed is a cony of a statement on the taxation problem pre-
pared by representatives of Standard-Vacuum, Yokohama, for Dr.
Carl S. Shoup, head of Army tax mission.
Basic question: What should be done to minimize the re-
pressive effects of the Japanese tax structure upon foreign
capital investment?
5
For a definition of SCAP policy the memorandum is intended
1
as a guide to consideration of the problems involved. It was
2
discussed with inconclusive results in a meeting of June 17 at
ESS, attended by two USPOLAD representatives. The attempts of
9
Dr. Fine of Ess to direct attention to the broad aspects of the
problem were frustrated by certain SCAP officials at the meetingN
who were determined to reach a decision on the immediate problemo
discussed below, of taxation of imported cigarettes and liquors.4
This is the problem in broad outline. Income in dollars and
other von-yen currency is temporarily exempt from taxation by
virtue of SCAPIN 4938-A. If existing tax rates were suddenly ap-
plied it would be a serious blow to foreign investors. Even now
a serious texation problem exists for yen income of commercial
entrante. Foreign corporations pay the national government tax
of 35% plus excess profits and local government levies bringing
C
the effective taxation rate on their net income to 60%. Excess
profits taxes begin where annual earnings exceed 30% of capital-
ization but because Japanese corporations are for the most part
greatly under-capitalized about three-fourths of them paid excess
profits taxes last year.
Personal income taxes would also be prohibitively high with-
out present restrictions. A $10,O00 salary would be subject to
a $7,500 tax. Even under SCAPIN 4938-A investment incomes of
π
commercial entrants are taxable. A return of $5,000 in a $50,000
ε
investment, for instance, 1s reduced to $1,666 by taxation.
did
Non-occupation cigarettes and liquors are now entering Japan
duty-free. Eight or nine companies, like Williams International,
have been authorized to sell imported and indigenous goods to
cat---
forms

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
forms of foreign exchange. These are destined for Japanese con-
sumption at yen equivalents ranging from $4 to $5 per carton.
10,O00 cases have been or ere being shipped into Japan. As com-
petition for the tobacco monopoly these cigarettes will represent
a tax loss to the government of 500 million yen and the 375,000
profit derived by the companies will likewise be tax-exempt.
SCAP has reportedly never inetructed the Japanese to exempt
non-occupation commodities from duties and taxes. When questioned
on the point, Japanese officials claim they cannot enforce appli-
cable duties beceuse they do not yet control al! major ports and
airfields. A more plausible exnlanation is that they feel that
severe criticism would result if existing tariffs and taxes were
improved. The CIF Yokohama price of a 1949 Chevrolet would come
to $6,800. Imoorted clothing would increase in price from 80% to
100%. Cigarettes would be sublect to 355% ad valorem customs
duty. The Japanese are most reluctant to revise their tariffs
downward wishing to wait until after the treaty when such revisions
may be used in bargaining for trade agreements with other nations.
Nevertheless, the government has'lately been pressing for "advice
from SCAp" on the problem.
The time hee come to reviee the nortion of SCAPIN 4938-A
XA
which prohibits taxation of non-yen income. The intent of this
provision was to protect commercial entrants whose earnings were
not derived from within the Japanese economy. Its effect was to
encourage the entry of licencees like the Coca Cola Company and
various banks which served the needs of the occupation forces.
On the other hand, operation in the yen economy of the Readers
Digest and kindred enternrisee were taxable. This anproach was
considered less likely to raise questions of extrality than a
distinction based upon non-Jananese nationals onerating within
the Japanese economy as distinguished from those operating with-
in the occupation forces economy. However, the scope of activity
permitted to commercial entrants has greatly increased and with
this the dividing line between internal and occupation economies
has dimmed. Those many foreign comnanies dealing in both yen
end allied currencies have kept separate books to take advantage
of the exemptions. This leads to obvious comolicatione including
temptatione in questions of accounting judgment. Certain Japanese
firms also onerate within this twilight zone and claim exemption
in their won-yen dealings. The more commercial restrictions are
liberalized the more unsatisfactory the exemption system becomes.
As regards the overall problem, three courses of action are
open to SCAP. First, it can maintain that the Jananese should
voluntarily remove alleged tax imnediments to the foreign invest-
ments program. This ie no solution as the Japanese are reluctant
to encourage a too rapid foreign investment program, fearing ex-
ploitation. Second, it can call for preferential tax rates for
foreign

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
一3 -
foreign business. This is contrary to our own historio polioies
as well as to that of the FEC. Third, it can call for an inte-
gration of this problem with overall tax reform.
Substantial reductions in tax rates - primarily in Personal
Income Tax, secondarily in the Corporation Tax - may be possiblo
without significant overall loss of revenue. Further improvements
in tax administration will result in greatly increased receipts.
A cut-off in personel income tax, say at 50%, could be balanoed
by lowering the starting rate and increasing the spread of certain
brackets. As for the orporation tax, the excess profits component
is the chief complaint of foreign investors. This might be re-
pealed outright and the normal net income tax (now 35%) graduated
to compensate for the resulting loss in revenue. It is also sug-
gested that Article 6 of the tex law which provides a three-year
tax exemption for new corporations engaged in the mining and pro-
cessing of certain staple products might be extended to all new
concerns or for those founded by foreign investment.
As for tariffs, the guiding principle should be that they
be imposed on all non-occupation imports. Still, complete appli-
cation of tariffs and sales taxes might discourage investment by
foreignors. Therefore, until tariffs and taxes are revised to
more rational levele SCAP should attempt to protect those imports
calculated to assist the recovery effort. It would be unpolitio
for SCAP to recommend precisely what tariff changes should be
made. On the other hand, considering that duty-free and tax-free
sales of foreign cigarettes and liquors are reducing revenues
seriously, SCAP should not object to immediate application of
existing duties and taxes on these items.
The statement for Dr. Shoup by representatives of Socony-
Vacuum of Yokohama reviews the difficulties for foreign business
posed by the tax structure end makes recommendations for reform.
Personal income of foreign nationals should be taxed only to the
extent that it is actually drawn in Japan or remitted to Japan.
The application of the excess profits tax should be improved by
a more precise definition of the term "capital". One suggestion
is that capital be considered to be the excess of gross assets
over liabilities. In the interest of efficiency it is also re-
commended that the national government pre-empt the tax-collect-
ing functions of trral and prefectural governments.
lorae
FE:NA:Stegmaier:aw

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
Office of the U.S Political Advia
for Japan
Tokyo, June 28, 1949.
4852
ONISION OF F
No. 417.
JUL-71949
RESTRICTED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Japanese Taxation of Conmercial Entrants
as Related to Question of Attraction of
Foreign Capital Investment to Japan.
recid
The Honorable
JUL 4
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ACTION
OFD
sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a menorandum dated June 
1949, on the subject "Japanese Taxation of Conmercial Entrants," 
DCR
3
pared by Mr. Henry SHaVELL, Deputy Chief, Internal Revenue Divisi
FE
Economic and Scientific Section (Ess), General Headquarters, Sup
ITP
Commander for the Allied Powers. Copies of this memorandum were 
OLI+
culated by the Internal Revenue Division to interested sections a
COM
divisions of General Headguarters as enclosure to a check sheet
TREAS
dated June 9, 1949, with the reguest that coments be supplied
FRB.
8
them on various points. Additionally, the memorandwm was the
of a conference on June 17, 1949, participated in by representatis
of the concerned SCAP sections.
It is clearly stated that "the memorandum in no way represents
established SCAP policy, but is intended to serve chiefly as a pint
of departure for discussions..." The memorandun itself contains 
numbered paragraphs, the first of vhich is devoted to a brief into-
duction, with paragraphs 2 to 19 inclusive being devoted to the na-
ture of. the problem of Japanese taxation of comaercial entrants,
paragraphs 20 to 29 inclusive to possible courses of action, and
paragraphs 30 to 33 inclusive to a relatively brief sumary.
The nature of the problem is aptly described in the second
graph of the memorandwn, which concludes ith the statement that
basic question is this: what action by either SCAP or the Japanese
Government, or both, should be taken to minimize tho repressive ef-
fect upon foreign capital investment exercised by the existing Jap-
anese tax structure?"
In its check sheet of June 9, the ESs Internal Revemue Division
referred to "the importance and widespread ramifications" of the
probfen
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
problem and stated that it was desirable "to obtain the pertinent
views and all shades of opinions of all interested SCAP Sections
and Divisions." Specific comment on at least the following points
was requested: (a) other aspects, if any, of the problem not
covered in the memorandum (of June 8, 1949); (b) solutions to the
problem of conflict between Japanese tax application and SCAP pro
gram of foreign capital investment in Japan; (c) need for revi-
sion of SCAPIN 4938-A; (d) application of customs and internal
taxes on imports of commercial entrants; and (e) advisability of
and practicability of extending preferential tax treatment to com-
mercial entrants.
At the June 17 meeting, which was presided over by Dr. Sherwood
M. FINE, Director for Economics and Finance, ESS, and attended by
two representatives of this Mission, inconclusive discussions were
held on Mr. Shavell's memorandum. Initial attention was directed
to paragraphs 5 to 12 inclusive regarding application of Japanese
customs and consumption taxes to such goods imported into Japan
as are destined for non-Occupation consumption, especially cigarettes
and liquors. It was pointed out that this problem was immediate in
as much as a number of private firms had been licensed to import
and sell those items to non-Occupation purchasers having legal ac-
cess to acceptable foreign exchange. Sale of these items without
payment of duties or taxes assertedly would cause the Japanese
Government to lose considerable potential revenue from duty and tax
sources and would also compete directly with sale of Japanese cigar-
ettes by the Japanese Tobacco Monopoly and with tax-paid Japanese
liquors, thereby also reducing Japanese Government revenues.
The discussion brought out the desire of certain officials pre-
sent to make these imports of cigarettes and liquor subject to Jap-
anese duties and taxes in the expectation of permitting the Japanese
Government to realize about Yen 120 billion from cigarettes and Yen
65 billion from liquor during the 1949-50 fiscal year which commenced
April 1, 1949. The cigarettes would, it was stated, be subject to
the regular import duty of 355 per cent ad valorem, while liquors
would be subject to the regular excise taxes (see this Mission's des-
patch no. 330 dated May 23, 1949, "Transmittal of Memorandum entitled
'General Survey of Japanese Taxation'.")
Efforts of Dr. Fine and others at the meeting to focus attention
on the broader aspects of Japanese taxation on foreign businessmem,
especially as related to SCAP's program for encouragement of foreign
capital investment in Japan, were countered by those SCAP officials
intent upon reaching a decision, even though of a tentative nature,
regarding the immediate problem of taxation of cigarettes and liquors.
During the course of the discussion, mention was made of the desira-
bility of permitting the American and British Chambers of Commerce,
Tokyo, to study and comment upon Mr. Shavell's memorandum. Mr. Harold
L. MOSS, Chief, Internal Revenue Division, ESS, stated that the memo-
randum could not be declassified owing to mention therein of certain
American and other firms, and that the Chambers in question had al-
ready been invited to present their views on the Japanese taxation
problem to the Internal Revenue Division for reference to Dr. Carl S.
SHOUP, head of the special Department of the Army taxation mission
now in Japan.
Among
RESTRICTED

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Toiyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-3-
Among those who spoke of the broader aspects of Japanese taxa-
tion of commercial entrants, including corporate and income taxes,
was Mr. J. E. PENNYBACKER, official in the Petroleum Advisory Group,
G-4 Section, General Headquarters. Mr. Pennybacker, former employee
of a prominent American oil company, stated that several American
firms were having difficulty in recruiting young men to come to Japan
owing to the high cost of living and imminent threat of becoming sub-
ject to Japanese income taxes. He added that, should the Japarese
authorities be permitted to collect corporation and income taxes at
the rates presently fixed, foreign business men would be forced to
2/
leave Japan. Enclosed is a copy of an undated memorandum entitled
"Proposals for Tax Legislation," from which Mr. Pennybacker read ex-
tracts at the meeting. These proposals are generally similar to
those contained in Mr. Shavell's memorandum. They are of interest,
however, as a presentation of the views of certain legal experts of
a prominent American concern vitally interested in the problem of
Japanese taxation of foreign business men and concerns.
The inconclusive June 17 meeting closed with the understanding
that interested SCAP sections and divisions would submit their com-
ments on Mr. Shavell's memorandum as speedily as possible, upon re-
ceipt of which another meeting would be called to go into the matter
further.
614.7
The Department will recall that the question of excessively high
taxation in Japan has been raised on several occasions in recent
months by the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan.  Reference in
this connection is made to this Mission's despatch no) 192 dated
farch 31, 1949, transmitting a copy of a memorandum prepared by the
Chamber summarizing deterrents to American postwar investment in
Japan. The problem of taxation was taken up in this memorandum in
rather general terms; however, comparison of the Chamber's comments
with Mr. Shavell's memorandum indicates that some of these conments
are covered in the memorandum.
While no definite policy has yet been adopted in General Head-
quarters regarding courses of action to be taken with respect to
Japanese taxation of commercial entrants, it may be noted that three
possible courses are mentioned in Mr. Shavell's memorandum. The
first involves negative action; for example, General Headquarters
can maintain that the Japanese Government should voluntarily take
action to remove alleged tax impediments to its foreign investment
program. A second course would be to recommend to the Japanese
authorities that preferential tax rates be applied to the incomes
of foreign investors for a given period. A third course might in-
volve careful consideration of this problem for integration with
overall tax reform plans.
The first suggested course is not favored for reasons stated
in paragraph 2l of Mr. Shavell's memorandum. The second course,
involving preferential tax rates, is likewise not favored owing to
the issue of extraterritoriality, and creation of "islands of tax
exemption" (quoting a phrase used by Dr. Fine at the June 17 meeting),
which would be considered discriminatory by the Japanese authorities
ardundoubtedly attacked by them soon after the peace treat between
Japen and the Allied Powers was signed. The third course of action
is
RESTRICTED

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
Töky's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
is considered to be the most desirable since it would obviate the
need for preferential tax treatment for foreign investors and, to
a certain extent, might also lessen the need for the non-yen our-
rency exemption provided for in SCAPIN 4938-A of November 29, 1947,
under which non-Japanese nationals are now exampt from Japanese taxs-
tion. Paragraphs 24 to 29 of the memorandum contain suggestions for
possible downward revision of Japanese corporate and income taxss,
and also import duties and excise taxes.
The positior. with regard to the recommended future course of
action is summarized as follows:
"The existing Japanese tax structure, notably
the Personal Income Tax and the Corporation Tax,
militates against the SCAP and Japanese Government
program to attract foreign capital investment to
Japan. It would appear unwise for SCAP to press
for special preferential tax treatment for foreign
investors as such action might result in adverse
criticiam by other nations. The most practical and
expedient solution to this problem would appear to
lie in the over-all reduction of Japanese personal
income tax progression and in the elimination or
revision of the excess profits tax component of the
Corporation Tax. There would seem to be a possibi-
lity of substantial reduction in income tax rates
without materially reducing income tax revenues."
In the opinion of this Mission, Mr. Shavell's memorandum is a
competent presentation of the problem of Japanese taxation of com-
mercial entrants as related to the question of attraction of foreign
investment to Japan. Adoption of the recommendations made therein
seemingly would do much to alleviate the fears of foreign business
men over the imminent threat of being subject to the excessively high
Japanese taxes, and would undoubtedly also serve to improve Japan's
status as a potential field for foreign investment.
Respectfully yours,
10
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
1/ Copy of memorandum dated June 8, 1949,
subject "Japanese Taxation of Commercial
Entrants";
2/ Copy of undated memorandum entitled
"Proposals for Tax Legislation".
Copies to: American Embassy, London
American Consulate General, Shanghai
American Consulate General, Hong Kong
Parchment Mat to the Department.
501.2
CHBoehringer:lee
RESTRICTED

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatoh No. Alt
dated June 28, 1949, from the Ofriee 
DESTRICTED
to Question of Attraction of Fersl
Capital Investment to Japen."
(COPY)
ECONOMIC AND SCIENTIFIC SECTION
Intornal Revenue Division
H8/1rk
MIMORANDUM FOR FILE:
8 Juna 1949
SUBJECT: Japaneme Taxation of Commercial Entrants.
1. The purpose of this memorandum is to outline the nature of
the problem involving application of Japanese taxes to commereial
entrants and thoir firms and to discuss possible courses of action
by scap pertinent to this problem. The memorandum in no way repre-
sents established SCAP policy, but is intended to serve chiefly as
a point of departure for discussions with other interested ss
divisions and SCAP sections.
NATURE OF THE PROBLEM:
2. One of the more important SCAP programs of the moment calls
for the attraction of foreign capital investment to Japan for the
purpose of accelerating Japanese economic rehabilitation and mini-
mising the cost of United States economic assistance for Japan. In
addition to this, SCaP is also endeavoring to turn more and more of
ordinary government functions back to the Japanese as well as to
bring about a gradual restoration of normal trade and commereial re-
lations between Japan and the rest of the world. The application of
existing Japanese taxes, particularly personal income and corporation
taxes to foreigmers in Japan would, if applied completely, militate
agaiast mmch ScAP objectives. While income in dollars or other non-
yem ourrency now earned in Japan is exempt from Japansse taxes by
virture of SCaPIN 4938-A, this exemption is only temporary and will
ccatinme in force until such time as the SCAPIN is rescinded or a
Japenese peace treaty is conoluded. An immediate problem arises,
however, with respect to the yen income derived by certain commereial
entrants who have been, or are in the process of being, authorised te
make fareign investments in Japan. The basic question is this: What
actiem by either SCAP or the Japanese Government, or both, should be
takem in order to minimize the repressive effect upon foreign eapital
imvestment exercised by the existing Japanese tax structure?
3. Gorporate Taxation and Commarcial Antrants: A foreign cor-
poratiem in Japan is mubject to the following major taxes: A natioz
gavermment carporation net inoome tax of 35%, an additional 10 to 2
emsess profits tax beginning at the point when annual earnings exoeed
30s af the capital account, and a local government net income tax of
las. Imasmch as the lax local government net income tax is dedmstiale

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
to No, 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-2-
as a business expense in computing national government corporation
tax liability, the total effective rate on corporation net income is
actually 46.7% rather than the sum of 35% and 18%. 1/ The excess
profits tax, although limited to annual earnings that exceed 30% of
the capital stock and surplus reserve aggregate is actually applied
to the majority of corporations. This is due primarily to the fact
that Japanese corporations are for the most part greatly under-capi-
talized. For the fiscal year 1948-49, for example, no less than
86,033 of the 115,128 Japanese corporations reporting taxable in-
comes were subject to the excess profits tax. Excess profits tax
revenue for the same year accounted for alxost 1/3 of the entire
proceeds of the corporation tax. Thus, it would appear that the
average Japanese corporation during the 1948-49 fiscal year had been
subject to an effective corporation rate in the order of 60% (46.7%
net income and a conservative average of 13% to 15% of excess prc-
fits tax liability). The high effective rate of corporate taxation
coupled with the facts that Japanese depreciation rates are extremely
low in relation to replacement costs and that the concept of Japanese
taxable profit covers such questionable items as upward revaluation
of fixed assets, does appear to constitute adequate cause for hesi-
tancy by potential foreign investors.
4. Personal Income Taxation and Cormercial Entrants: The exis-
ting personal income tax rate structure, which may be excessive even
when applied to the Japanese internal economy, hecomes almost pro-
hibitively heavy when applied to medium income levels in the dollar
economy. For example, an American emplcyee of a foreign firm in Japan
whose annual salary is $10,000 woul? be subjected to an income tax
liability of roughly 75% under the existing Japanese income tax (S10,000
equivalent to 3,é million yen per annum). While such income in dsllars
is not presently taxable in Japan under SCAPIN 4938-A, this ineome
will becone taxable at the conclusion of the Japanese peace treaty, if
not before. Even at present, however, investment incomes of cenmercial
entrants resident in Japan are taxable y ths Japanese. For exampl.,
a foreign na i nsl in Japan may invest 50, C00 in establishing a Jap
anese plant. His investment would, at the present exchange rate be
valued at 18 million yen. If he were to earn, say, a l06 raturn on
his investment, he would receive l.& million yen annually before taxes.
While this annual income would be eqtivalent to only $5, o00, the exis-
ting Japanese income tax would reduce lis 1,8 million yen annual in-
come by approximately 66%..
5. Customs and Taxes on Imported Goods: Another important phas
of the basic problem concerns itself with the application of Japaneso
custems
1
This is not technically correct in practice. Actually it is the
local government tax liability of the preceding year which is
deductible as a business expense in computing the national tax
liability of the current year.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
Fnolasure No. 1 to
Tokyots Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-3-
customs and consumption taxes to such goods imported into Japan as
are destined for non-occupation consumption. At the present time
Japanese customs and internal taxes are in general not imposed upon
such imports. The CSS (Overseas Supply Store), under the manage-
ment of ESS-Trade Service: Division, presently imports a wide variety
of commodities for resale to all non-occupation purchasers having
legal access to acceptable foreign exchange. Thus, commercial en-
trants and other non Japanese nationals may purchase imported auto-
mobiles, cigarettes, liquor, clothing, cosmetics, appliances, etc.,
from OSs, duty and tax free, so long as they can legally possess
and acquire foreign exchange. Moreover, commercial entrants in
Japan may also place individual import orders by filing application
with the EsS-Foreign Trade Division. It is understood that approxi-
mately 4,000 of such individual licenses to import have been val1-
dated by ESS-Foreign Trade. Commercial entrants may thereby import
supplementary supplies (presumably or allegedly for personal use)
duty and tax free.
6. Technically, however, no legal basis exists for the exemp-
tion of customs and interral taxes for such imports. This Head-
quarters has never formally (or, to the writer's knowledge, infor-
mally) instructed the Japanese Government to exempt such iuports
from existing customs and consumption taxes. Except for an insig-
nificant amount of customs duties collected from petroleum product
imports, customs and consumption taxes legally applicable to non-
occupation imports have not been onforced. Japanese taxation and
customs officials have heretofore chosen to ignore the law as it
would apply to such imports, this apparently with the sanction of
the Japanese Government. Mien queried on this point, Japanese
customs officials indicated that they have not been in a position
to enforce applicable duties because they have not been as yet
given control of all major ports. These officials also state that
they have not been in a position to check incoming air cargo.
Notwithstanding these excuses, however, it is probable that the
Japanese Government has consciously refused to enforce their cus-
toms and tax laws with respect to non-occupation imports for other
reasons.
7. The full application of existing customs and internal taxes
on non-occupation imports would result in extremely high taxes on
many commodity lines. The application of a lo0% ad valorem com-
modity tax on top of a 70% ad valorem customs duty on standard size
passenger cars imported into Japan would raise the CIF Yokohama
value of a new 1949 Chevrolet to about $6,800. Items of clothing
would in general be increased by from 80% to 100% with the appli-
cation of existing tariffs and internal taxes. Liquor items would
be increased by from 150% to 300%. Cigarettes would be subject t.o
a 355% ad valorem rate under the customs duty. Certain construction
materials would be raised by roughly l00%.
8. Because the application of such levels of custom duties
and internal taxes would probably create unfavorable criticism of
the Customs Law, Commodity Tax Law, and other tax laws application
to imports, the Japanese have heretofore preferred to ignore en-
forcement of these laws. The Japanese authorities are extremely
reluctant
RESTRICTED

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-4-
reluctant to revise dow ward their Customs Law. While they can
see the need for wholesale reductions in tariff rates, they qiite
naturally would like to defer revisions in their tariff laws until
the post-treaty period when they will be in a more advantageous
position to utilize tariff cuts as bargaining aids in obtaining
trade agreements with other nations. Both the Finance and Inter-
nal Revenue Divisions of ESS have repeatedly pointed out to the
Japanese officials the advantages of immediate downward revision
of tariffs but to no avail. Japan requires little in the way of
a protective tariff. From a revenue standpoint, Japan can afford
to drastically slash tariff rates and not significantly affect
tariff revenue potentials.
9. The problem of application of customs duties and consump-
tion taxes to non-occupation imports has now been brought to a head.
Some eight or nine commercial entrants have recently been authorized
to sell imported (as well as indigenous) goods to all commercial en-
trants and others having access to dollars, sterling, and other as-
ceptable forms of foreign exchange. Thus, these firms will be in
direct competition, so to speak, with the Overseas Supply Store.
Information now reaching this office reveals that the initial im-
ports of these new concorns are largely made up of cigarettes and
liquor. One company alone, the Williams International, has imported
from 4, 000 to 5,000 cases of American cigarettes. It is probable
that some 10, 00o cases of cigarettes have been, or are in the process
of being, shipped to Japan for resale by these new concerns. In view
of the extremely small and limited market that can purchase from OSS
and the new firms (there are only 6,O00 total OSS cards outstanding,
of which an estimated 1,200 represent commercial entrants and their
employees and the remainder composed of non-Japanese nationals -
missionaries, foreign missions, Chinese, etc.) it is readily apparent
that large quantities of these cigarettes are destined for consump-
tion by Japanese. For example, because American cigarettes have a
high black market value among the Japanese (yen equivalent ranging
from $4 to $5 per carton), American cigarettes are rationed to both
Occupation personnel (in PX's) and commercial entrants (in OSS).
At the PX ration allowance of one carton per week for every adult,
it would take approximately two years for the new concerns to dis-
pose of their present cigarette orders - assuming also that Oss dis-
continued their cigarette sales completely. It is quite probable
that all 10,000 cases of cigarettes could be disposed of within a
relatively short-time if quantity ration restrictions were not i-
posed. Cigarettes, in the absence of customs duties, are highly
profitable sales items. The OSS retails cigarettes at $1.50 per
carton, thereby realizing a profit of roughly 75 cents on each
carton.
10. The resale or barter of American cigarettes in the Jap-
anese market costs the Japanese Government untold millions, if not
billions, of yen in revenue. The Japanese Government tobacco mono-
poly constitutes the second most important single source of revenue
(second
RESTRICTED

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-5-
(second only to the income tax). In the 1948-49 fiscal year, pro-
fits from cigarette and tobacco sales transferred to the General
Account Budget approximated 95 billion yen, equalling almost 22%
of total General Account tax revenues. American cigarettes reach-
ing Japanese smokers compete directly with Japanese Government
brands. Considerable sales resistance to Japanese Government cigar-
ettes exists, and this recent development is in part influenced by
the competition with American cigarettes. For every carton of
American cigarettes reaching Japanese smokers, the Japanese Govern-
ment loses a potential profit of at least 1,000 yen. Through the
release of an additional 10,000 cartons of cigarettes by newly
authorized commercial entrant concerns, these concerns will stand
to profit in the order of $375, 000 2 (non-taxable to the Jap-
anese Government) and the Japanese Government will stand to lose
an additional 500 million yen. 3/
11. A potential revenue Joss to the Japanese Government
through the competition of tax exempt American and other foreign
liquors with tax-paid Japanese liquor produsts also exists. At
present tere are no material quantity restrictions on purchases
of imported liquor, tax and duty free. A high black market poten-
tial exists in this field. A case of Canadian Club whiskey can be
purchased for about $18 by Occupation personnel and commercial
entrants. The yen equivalent of what this case would bring on the
Japanese market approximales S45 - $50.
12. The Japanese Government has lately been pressing fcr "ad-
vice from SCAp" on this problem. Informal talks with them indicate
they desire to impose applicable custons and internal taxes on OSS
imports and all other non-occupation imports. We have replied that
we are still studying this problem.
13. A problem also arese concerning taxability of the so-
called "invisible exports". Until last January, OSS purchases of
Japanese produced merchandise for resale for dollars was exempt
from applicable Japanese taxes. The argument advanced for tax exemp-
tion was that sales of Japanese goods for dollars constituted a form
of invisible exports and that such invisible exports were to be given
the same tax exempt treatment as was applicable to ordinary exports.
The Japanese Government, however, argued that indigenous goods con-
sumed in Japan by non-occupation users, whether sold for yen or
foreign exchange, were not to be tax exempt as they were not physi-
cally exported. To exempt such goods from taxation would discriminate
against Japanese merchants who sell the same commodities inclusive
of tax. Accordingly, ESs adopted the policy in January of this year
of offering no objection to Japanese Government efforts to collect
internal taxes on such indigenous goods as are sold through Oss.
14. SCAPIN
2 10,000 cases times 50 cartons times 75 cents per carton profit.
3
10,000 cases times 50 cartons times 1,000 yen loss per carton
through loss of market for "Peace" type cigarettes.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatah No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-6-
14. SCAPIN 4938-A. The only authorized tax exemption opera-
ting in favor of commercial entrants in Japan at the present time
is provided for in SCAPIN 4938-A, a copy of which is attached hereto.
Under this SCAPIN, the Japanese Government was prohibited from:
a. Imposing taxes that discriminate against non-Japanese
nationale;
b. Imposing taxes upon United Nation Nationals and thei:
property which taxes were primarily designed to meet charges falling
upon Japan as result of the war; and
c. Imposing taxes measured by or based upon income law-
fully received on non-yen currency.
15. Parts a and b of the above paragraph represents policy
decision of the Far Eastern Commission in Washington. Part c of
the above paragraph, however, was initiated by this Headquarters as
an interim measure designed to prevent the Japanese Government from
taxing the earnings of commercial entrants when such earnings were
not derived from operations within the Japanese domestic economy.
The principle upon which the latter provision was based uponies as
follows; where income was derived from within the Japanese domss-
tic economy, whether by Japanese or by commercial entrants, such
income was to be taxable by the Japanese Government; where, how-
ever, income was derived by commercial entrants primarily from ser-
vices for the Occupation Forces or to other commercial entrants,
which income did not originate from within the Japanese domestic
economy, such income was not to be subject to Japanese taxation.
The reason for this provision was to encourage and facilitate the
entry into Japan of SCAP licensees who provided essential servics
to the Occupation Forces or who directly facilitated attainment f
SCAP objectives. Thus, the Coca Cola Company, the Pepsi Cola Com-
pany, various foreign banks, etc., which provided services for th
Occupation Forces, were not to be subject to Japanese income taxes
as the income of such firms was not derived from the Japanese eccucmy.
Contrariwise, incomes derived by Time Magazine, Newsweek Magazine,
The Central Motion Picture Exchange, and the Readers Digest, from
sales within the yen economy, were to be subject to Japanese taxation.
Under the then existing foreign exchange regulations and restrictions,
it was not possible for Japanese nationals to deal in currency other
than in yen. Because of this, in the drafting of the SCAPIN, the dis-
tinction between yen and non-yen incomes was utilized rather than a
distinction based upon non Japanese nationals operating within the
Japanese economy as distinguished from those operating within ti
pation Foroes economy. It was felt that the adoption of the former
exemption basis was preferable to the latter in that it would be less
likely to raise questions of extension of extra-territoriality righi:
16. Need for Revision of SCAPIN 4938-A: In view of the fact
that the scope of activities of commercial entrants in Japan has beer.
greatly extended since November 1947 (when SCAPIN 4938-A was issued),
there may now be a need for re-examination of the provisions of SCAPIN
4938-A. The dividing line between what constitutes the internal as dis-
tinguished from the occupation economy has grown less determinate with
every
RESTRICTED

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28,1949.
every successive liberalization of commercial entrant restrictions.
A sort of "twilight zone" has come into existence, encompassing both
Occupation and Japanese internal activities. Foreign banks, for ex-
ample now handle yen accounts and other forms of internal Japanese
banking operations. A number of commercial entrants have been recent-
ly authorized to retail both imported and indigenous merchandise to
other commercial entrants and to other individuals in Japan having
access to foreign exchange. The need for exempting the incomes from
such concerns from Japanese taxes is no longer as pressing as was
the case when SCAPIN 4938-A was issued. Such concerns as Barclay
and Company, Williams International, Dodwell and Company, and others,
are in competition with Japanese firms who are taxable, except for
the fact that the former sell for dollar instruments while the lat-
ter sell in yen currency. This is clearly a case of extension of
extra-territoriality rights by SCAP.
17. In order to avail themselves of the tax exemption provided
for in SCAPIN 4938-A, these commercial entrants dealing in coth yen
and non-yen areas have been maintaining two sets of accounts, one
for yen, and the other for non-yen, dealings. Under this technique,
certain aggregate dollar costs which are applicable to yen and non-
yen operations, have been permitted to be apportioned and translated
into yen costs at various sets of exchange rates (determined by tax-
payers with the approval of the Japanese Government). Thus, the
dollar cost of story material and other supplies furnished to the
Readers Digest office in Japan has been converted to a yen basis in
order to arrive at constructive costs to be offset against yen gross
income. This has quite obviously led to many complications. This
office has suggested to the Japanese Taxation Bureau that they adopt
a more or less liberal attitude toward approving exchange conversion
rates desired by various commercial entrants in computing construc-
tive yen costs. As a result, the Japanese Government has offered
no objection to the use of varied exchange rates by Time Magazine,
Newsweek, Readers Digest, Central Motion Picture Exchange, New York
Times and various other SCAP licensees in determining constructive
yen costs. However, now that the range of licensee and commercial
entranttactivities has been greatly increased, complications resul-
ting from maintaining separate yen versus non-yen accounts have mul-
tiplied. A case in point is that of foreign banks now operating
within the yen economy. What portion of each bank's investments, in
both dollar and yen terms, and what portion of each bank's fixed costs
are to be deductible from yen. gross incomes and what portion from non-
yen gross incomes?
18. Also operating within this "twilight zone" are various
Japanese concerns. For example, the Japanese automobile companies.
which have been appointed distributors for General Motors, Chrysler,
Willys-Overland, and the Austin Company, have been selling for foreign
exchange. Conceivably, however, such concerns can state that their
income was "measured by or based upon" incomes in non-yen currencies,
and thereby. seek to obtain exemption from Japanese taxes. Foreign
insurance concerns operating in Japan (American International Under-
writers, Home. Insurance Company) have been largely off-setting their
yen labor and operating costs by taking advantage of SCAPIN 4938-A.
An interesting example of how this is done was furnished last month.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
- 8-
The Home Insurance Company (an American firm) had insured an Ameri-
can officer's new 1949 Ford for $2185. The car was wrecked, and the
officer received full value from the Home Insurance Company.  The
insurance company in turn sold the wrecked remains of the 1949 Ford
to the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture for 1,600,000 yen (or the
equivalent of $4,400)!
19. SCAPIN 4938-A has operated to extend preferential tax
treatment to a number of non-Japanese nationals and stateless in-
dividuals who have been residents of Japan since pre-war days. For
example, a Korean national who has resided in Japan for the past
dozen or more years is employed by the Foreign Broadcast Information
Service (a U.S. Government agency with a branch in Tokyo) and is paid
a dollar salary by a U.S. Government agency in Japan. This Korean
now claims exemption from the Japanese income tax, and from that part
of the citizens tax which is based upon income. Numerous cases are
known to exist where Chinese and other non-Japanese nationals have
acquired dollar and other non-yen earnings by representing foreign
concerns in Japan. SCAPIN 4938-A permits such individuals, who have
been continuously resident in Japan since pre-war days, who have
hitherto been fully taxable by the Japanese Government, and who share
a responsibility in supporting the Japanese Government along with
other Japanese residents, to claim tax exemption under a SCAPIN which.
was never intended to cover such individuals. In view of the above
(para. 16-18), and because of the further complications that will in-
evitably arise from anticipated further liberalization of commercial
entrant restrictions, that part of SCAPIN 4938-A that pertains to pro-
hibition of Japanese taxes on non-yen income should be re-examined
with a view to revision.
B. COURSES OF ACTION:
20. With respect to the problem of repressive effects of Jap-
anese taxation on foreign capital investments, there appear to be
three major courses of action open to SCAP. The first course involves
negative action. This Headquarters can maintain, for example, that the
Japanese Government should voluntarily take action to remove alleged
tax impediments to its foreign investment program. A second course
would be to recommend to the Japanese that preferential tax rate be
applied to the incomes of foreign investors for a given period. A
third course might involve careful consideration of this problem for
integration with overall tax reform plans.
21. The negative course of action outlined in the above para-
graph constitutes no solution. It is not at all certain that Japanese
policy-makers regard the need for foreign capital investment in Japar
in the same light as that existing in this Headquarters. The Japanese
have exhibited a minor but nevertheless detectable degree of reluctance
on the question of taking positive action in order to stimulate foreign
capital investment in Japan. Perhaps this hesitancy stems from an ap-
prehension on their part that too rapid and too great a foreign in-
vestment
RESTRICTED

=== Page 188 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-9-
vestment program at the present time might lead to possible exploi-
tation of Japanese interests by foreign elements. It. would appear
that it would be up to this Headquarters to adopt a more positive
solution to the foreign investment problem if the problem is to be
resolved at all.
22. The second course of action, that involving the application
of preferential tax rates to foreign investment incomes involves some
undesirable features from a political and diplomatic viewpoint. It
has been the aim of this Headquarters to steer clear of the thorny
issue of extra-territoriality rights. The U.S. Government has always
avoided seeking preferential tax treatment for its nationals in other
countries.4/SCAPINS issued by this Headquarters have been so worded
as to minimize the possibility of post-treaty challenges to Occupation
policies on the grounds that the Occupation authorities obtained
special benefits for their nationals by taking undue advantage of
their position. To place SCAP in the position of specifying that pre-
ferential tax treatment will be accorded to foreign nationals during
some part or the whole of the Occupation would appear to be unwise
politically and diplomatically. Moreover, this action if taken would
directly contravene Far Eastern Commission policy calling for the
application of Japanese taxes to non-Japanese nationals on a non-
discriminatory basis. Non-discrimination usually implies non-discrimi-
nation both for and against. To call for preferential treatment for
non-Japanese nationals would be to call for taxes that discriminate
against Japanese taxpayers.
23. The third course of action outlined under paragraph 20
above appears to be the most desirable of the three. This line of
action would obviate the need for preferential tax treatment for
foreign investors and, to a certain extent, might also lessen the
need for the non-yen currency exemption provided for in SCAPIN 4938-A.
Obviously, however, the degree of statutory reduction in Japanese taxes
would have to be principally conditioned by the amount of overall re-
venue loss that would result to the Japanese Government from such action.
24. It would appear that a substantial reduction in certain
Japanese tax rates (primarily in the Personal Income Tax and to a les-
ser extent in the Corporation Tax) could be met without, at the same
time, resulting in a significant decrease in realized tax revenue.
Despite the very substantial improvements in tax administration that
have taken place within the past two years, the ratio of actual tax
collections compared to theoretical levels of tax collection (based
upon perfect tax administration and tax compliance), is still inor-
dinately low. For the 1948-49 fiscal year less than 40% of the tax re-
venue that was potentially collectable from the non-farm self-assessed
group
Radio WCL 87752, dated 12 May 1946, from Joint Chiefs of Staff in
Washington to CINCAFPAC (MacArthur) reads in part "that it has
never been United States Government Policy to press for special
treatment of U.S. Nationals except where foreign laws have been
discriminatory."
RESTRICTED

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28,.1949.
-10 -
group was actually collected. It is quite possible that almost the
same amount of tax revenue that was collected could have been col-
lected under statutory rates of exemption considerably more liberal
than currently exist. It is still a common-place in Japan that in-
come taxes are assessed "backwards". The tax assessment is very often
arrived at by arbitration between taxpayer and tax collector, with very
little if any reference to statutory provision. Similarly, tax assess-
ments have been more recently influenced by external pressures, such
as assigned collection goals.
25. A cut-off in personal income tax progression, perhaps at the
50% level, might, in the final analysis, result in practically the same
realized income tax revenue. Such a reduction would at the same time
go far in resolving the problem of application of Japanese personal in-
come taxes to non-yen incomes of foreign nationals. A lowering of the
starting rate of the income tax, coupled with an increased spread in
bracket areas, would also work in the same direction but would pro-
bably involve more appreciable revenue losses.
26. With respect to the Corporation Tax, the excess profits com-
ponent lies at the root of much of the complaints by foreign investors.
Outright elimination of the excess profits tax would appear advantageous
from the standpoint of taxpayer morale and tax administration. Because
the excess profits tax is based upon corporate capital accounts which
for the most part are grossly understated in relation to earning power,
this tax discriminates unduly against corporations which have been in
existence prior to the war's end but which were not given the benefit
of re-capitalization at higher levels following imposition of the War
Indemnity Special Tax. 5/ Repeal of the excess profits tax might
largely obviate the need for permitting corporation re-valuation of
assets so as to allow more rational operation of the same tax. Repeal
of the excess profits tax, however, would initially involve some re-
venue decline. It might be possible, however, to graduate that normal
net income tax for corporations (which is at present a flat 35%) in
order to offset the whole or part of the revenue loss that would result
from excess profits tax repeal. Thus, it would be possible to reduce
foreign investor criticism of the existing corporation tax structure
(through the substitution of a graduated normal tax for an excess pro-
fits tax) and at the same time maintain the same degree of corporation
tax productivity.
27. Another
As a result of the War Indemnity Special Measures Tax, many of
Japan's largest corporations were made technically insolvent. Suc:
corporations were permitted to write-off a portion of their losses
through upward revaluation of assets. The revaluation of corporation
.assets permitted under the Enterprise Reconstruction and Reorgani-
zation Law and Under the Financial Institution Reorganisation and
Reconstruction Law were exempt from the corporation tax which would
normally have been imposed upon revaluation "profits". As a result,
certain Japanese corporations have been placed in a more advantageoud
position with respect to competitor concerns simply because competitor
concerns remained solvent following imposition of the War Indemnity Tax.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28,1949.
-11-
27. Another possibility in corporation tax revision would be
to expand the application of Article 6 of the Japanese Corporation
Tax Law. Article 6 present iy provides that:
"such corporations which are engaged in the
manufacturing, mining or picking of staple
products as may be designated by ordinance
may be, as prescribed by ordinance, exempt
from corporation tax in respect of the am-
ount of normal income accrued from certain
businesses during the accounting period in
which the corporations have begun said busi-
nesses or accounting periods ending within
three years from the first day of the fol-
lowing accounting period".
The Corporation Tax Law enforcement regulations specify (Article 2)
that the staple products referred tc in Article 6 of the Corporation
Tax Law are:
"Gold metals, lime-nitrogen, ammonium sulphate,
burnt potassium alum powder, burnt potassium
quartz trachyte powder and super phosphate
lime (including metamorphosis manure), gold
minerals and placer minerals, petroleum, coal
and peat, potassium quartz trachyte and phos-
phate cre."
It might be possible for Article 6 of the Corporation Tax Law to be
expanded to include exemption from tax for the first two or so years
of operation for all new concerns or for such concerns that came into
existence as a result of foreign capital investment.
28. SCAPIN 4938-A as it presently stands may provide too broad
a basis for exemption of non-yen income. Some provision for income
tax exemption for commercial entrants is highly desirable at present,
however, in view of the relatively high tax rates prevailing, the
distorted relationship between dollar and yen incomes, and the need
for attraction of foreign traders and foreign commercial entrants in
Japan. One expedient solution may be tc amend SCAPIN 4938-A so as to
limit Japanese tax exemption only to those individuals entering Japan
since September 2, 1945. This would permit the Japanese Government
to impose taxes on non-yen income earned by individuals continuously
resident in Japan since the end of the war but would prohibit non-
yen income taxation on those entering Japan since V-J Day.
29. With respect to the problem of customs and consumption tax
application to non-occupation imports, it is felt that:
a. As a principle, Japanese tariffs and consumption taxes
should be applied to all imports not destined for Occupation force
consumption;
b. Complete
RESTRICTED

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
Emolosire No. 1 to
Tokyo!s Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-12-
b. Complete application of existing tariffs and consump-
tion taxes might be detrimental to SCAP programs calling for attrac-
tion of foreign capital investment to Japan and of forein buyers;
c. Until such time as the Japanese Government reduces
existing ad valorem tariff rates and excise taxes to more rational
levels, it is in the interests of SCAP to restrain the Japanese
Government from imposing tariffs and taxes on at least those cate-
gories of imports that would aid in the overall recovery effort of
Japan and which imports are not adequately available in the domestic
economy (e.g. - passenger automobiles, construction equipment, in-
dustrial machinery, etc,);
d. SCAP should, however, not be placed in the position of
recommending to precisely what levels existing tariffs should be
reduced;
e. In view of the facts that the continuation of duty and
tax free imports of tobacco (and to a lesser extent, liquor) are re-
ducing Japanese Government internal revenues, that tobacco and Liquor
are inadequate supply in the Japanese market, and that such goods do
not positively aid in Japanese reconstruction, SCAP should not offer
any objection to the immediate application of existing liquor and
tobacco custom duties and excise taxes.
f. SCAP should take a more active interest in having the
Japanese Government draft and submit legislation to the next Diet
session amending the Customs Law of Japan.
C. SUMMARY:
30. The existing Japanese tax structure, notably the Personal
Income Tax and the Corporation Tax, militates against the SCAP and
Japanese Government program to attract foreign capital investment to
Japan. It would appear unwise for SCAP to press for special preferen-
tial tax treatment for foreign investors as such action might result
in adverse criticism by other nations. The most practical and expe-
dient solution to this problem would appear to lie in the overall re-
duction of Japanese personal income tax progression and in the elimi-
nation or revision of the excess profits tax component of the Corpora-
tion Tax. There would seem to be a possibility of substantial reducti
in income tax rates without materially reducing income tax revenues.
31. While Japanese customs and internal taxes are currently not
imposed upon non-occupation imports, this practice is technically il-
legal. At the same time it would appear that existing tariffs and
excise taxes are so high that, if applied fully to all non-occupation
imports, they would be detrimental to SCAP foreign investment and
foreign trade programs.
32. The importation of American cigarettes and liquor for non-
-occupation consumption on a duty and excise tax-free basis offers
unfair
RESTRICTED

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
olge's Despatoh No. 417,
-13
unfair competition with indigenous products sdnce the lattes are
sales of indigenous tobacco and liquor product resulting from
"leakage" of American products into the Japanese market.
33. It would be desirable for the Shoup Taxation Misslon to
fully consider these problems when formulating recommendations on
Japanese tax reform. In this connection, it would be desirable
for all interested ESS Divisions and SCAP Sections to comment upon
the above discussion so that Professor Shoup may be advised of the
general consensus of opinion of GHQ.
Henry Shavell
Deputy Chief,
Internal Revenue Division.
1 Incl
SCAPIN 4938-A.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
melosure No. 1 to
Rakyo's Despatoh No. 417,
Jume 28, 1949.
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 012.2 (29 Nov 47)ESS/FI
APO 500
(SCAPIN 4938-A)
29 November 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJECT:
Applicability of Taxes to Non-Japanese Nationals
1. SCAPIN 1826-A, dated 25 July 1946, subject: "Applicability
of Ordinary Taxes to Non-Japanese Nationals" is hereby rescinded.
2. There is no objection to the applicability of local and na-
tional taxation to non-Japanese nationals except as specified in
paragraph 3 below, provided that such taxes are not discriminatory
against non-Japanese nationals. No tax, primarily designed to meet
reparations or other charges falling upon the Japanese Government as
a result of the war shall be imposed by the Japanese Government upon
United Nations nationals or their properties.
3. No tax will be imposed by the Japanese Govermment on the of-
ficial salaries of military personnel, of civilians attached to the
occupation forces, and of accredited personnel of foreign diplomatic
missions, delegations, and other official representation attached to
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. No tax based upon or
measured by income lawfully received in non-yen currencies will be
imposed by the Japanese Government. This shall not however be con-
strued to prohibit the taxation of SCAP employees or SCAP licensee
employees paid in yen currencies.
4. Direct communication between the Ministry of Finance and in-
terested staff sections of this Headquarters is authorized to imple-
ment the provisions of this memorandum.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General
RESTRICTED

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatoh No. 417.
of June 28, 1949, from the Office.of
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, on the subject wJapanese Taxe-
tion of Commercial Entrants as Related
to Question of Attraction of Foreign
Capital Investment to Japan"
(Copy of statement prepared by representatives
of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, Yokohama,
for Dr. Carl S. Shoup, head of special Depart-
ment of the Army Tax Mission now in Japan)
PROPOSALS FOR TAX LEGISLATION
There are several tax matters which require new legislation if
foreign corporations are to survive in Japan. A remedy for each of
these matters is not only desirable but absolutely essential as
present tax laws make it virtually impossible for foreign corpora-
tions to conduct business in Japan with any hope of profit.
Though there are many tax difficulties in the present Japanese
tax system, the major points are briefly stated below:
I. TAXES UPON PERSONAL INCOME:
The present tax rates on personal income, as applied to the
ordinary American business salaries, approach confiscatory levels.
Salaries in excess of 1,000,000 per annum, though this amount is
less than $3,000, are taxed at the rate of 75%. Salaries of
¥5,000,000, the equivalent of less than $14,000, are taxed at the
maximum rate of 85%. It is entirely certain that it will be impos-
sible to persuade competent American executives to work in Japan if
their salaries are to be subjected to such rates.
It may be argued that the personal income tax rates in Japan
should be determined in accordance with Japanese income regulations,
standards and requirements, and that foreigners who elect to live in
Japan should be treated exactly like the Japanese. This point of view,
however, does not bear analysis since Japanese and foreigners working
in Japan live upon entirely different scales, have entirely different
expenses for their living requirements and have entirely different
objectives. Part of the foreigner's income will be spent in Japan for
his living expenses and his recreation but part of it will be spent,
ordinarily, in the United States for the care of his dependents who
are in the United States for educational or other reasons; part of it
will be spent for life insurance and other dollar charges which are an
essential factor in his program; part of it will be spent for main-
tenance on home-leavs; and part of it will have to be put. aside to
provide protection against his own retirement or ill-health:and pro-
tection for his dependents. It is almost a universal objective of
foreigners living in Japan, and other places in the Orient, to retire
eventually and live in the United States.
So, it is very clear that the Japanese standards of income and
living expense are completely irrelevant to theapreigner who is
working in Japan. It is not merely a matter of encouraging the pro-
per kind of foreign executives»namely, men of competence and integrity,
but
RESTRICTED

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
- 2 -
but a matter of avoiding tax measures which will exclude them from
Japan as certainly as though there were an absolute prohibition
against their entrance.
To avoid a tax situation, disadvantageous to the Japanese econo-
my and ruinous to the foreign corporation, a change in the tax laws
is essential so that the rates adopted will be made applicable to
foreign staff resident in Japan only to the extent that their incomes
are drawn in, or remitted to, Japan. Such part of their foreign cur-
rency incomes as are not received in Japan should be free from all
Japanese income and other taxes.
The above proposal is based upon established precedent. As to
foreign business men, resident in the United Kingdom and employed in
the service of a foreign employer, it has been held, under the exist-
ing tax laws and regulations, that the source of their incomes is in.
a "foreign possession" and the incomes are taxable in the United King-
dom only to the extent that they are remitted to the United Kingdom
(see Bennett v. Marshall, (1938) 1 K.B. 591). The inclusion of this
principle in the personal income tax law in Japan might be regarded
as the most important single factor in the revival of Japanese com-
merce and industry in that it permits the investment of American
capital and the aid of American managerial and professional skills.
In fact, it can be said that it would permit American enterprise to
exist in Japan.
II. CORPORATION INCOME TAXES IN JAPAN:
(a). The present regular corporate income tax rate is 35%.
This rate is not such as to encourage corporate enterprise in Japan,
considering the many risks which such enterprise must undergo. Never-
theless, the amount of revenue required is a determining factor and it
may be that something approaching this figure will be required under
present economic and political conditions. There is, however, under
the present tax statutes, an additional excess-profits levy which com-
mences with a 10% levy on profits in excess of 30% of the capital of
the corporation. This excess profits tax, if the revenue is required,
is not too much out of line if, and only if, the measure of "capital"
is realistic.
"Capital", as now determined, is the "average of the amount of
paid up capital, contributions or funds as of the end of each month
of each accounting period, plus the amount of reserves at the begin-
ning date of each account period........."
This definition is not precise and similar definitions in other
foreign countries have proved uncertain and unsatisfactory in admini-
stration. The definition should cover share capital, paid-in or capi-
tal surplus, earned surplus and reserves, and it is of vital importance
that the new legislation clearly and specifically includes each of
these named items of "capital". The same result may be reached in per-
haps a simpler way by defining "capital", for purposes of the tax
statute,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-3-
statute, as the excess of gross assets over liabilities, though
this latter definition would require specific amplification to avoid
any ambiguity.
(b) The Corporation Tax Law provides, in its Article 15, that
the capital of a corporation, having its head office or principle
place of business outside of Japan, shall be caluulated by applying
the generally applicable provision "to the capital or business located
within the enforcement area of the present law." Presumably, the in-
tent of the law is to determine the total capital of such a corpora-
tion and then to allccate a portion thereof to Japan, the basis being
"capital or business located within the enforcement area." This seems
to be a fair method of allocation but should be more accurately de-
fined by using, for example, the ratio of gross income in Japan to
total gross income. The value would be determined in a foreign cur-
rency and be converted into Japanese currency at the average rate of
exchange ruling in each taxable year, the law or regulations so pro-
viding.
III. PREFECTURAL AND LOCAL TAXES:
It cannot be emphasized too strongly that individual and cor-
porate income taxes are only a part of the tax danger. Even though in-
come taxes are gotten within proper bounds, there remains a ruinous
situation if lccal and provincial taxes are permitted to run their pre-
sent course. A flagrant example is that of the Provincial Business Tax
which is levied on corporations at the rate of 15% of net income. This
is a tax universally adopted throughout Japan and the result is that
corporation income, instead of being taxed at the high rate of 35%, is
taxed at the extraordinary rate of 50%. It is very clear that a total
tax rate upon business income which is above 40% has an inevitable
tendency to contract investments of capital funds in any locality and
the presence in Japan of the many additional risks would add further
discouragement. The Japanese tax-payer, in the past, has worked his
way through the many taxes by presenting false books to the tax
examiner and evading in every conceivable way all or any part of
every tax as opportunity suggested. The reputable foreign business
concern is neither able nor willing to have tvo sets of books or to
indulge in the tax manipulations which tax burdens and tradition have
induced the Japanese to adopt. National, provincial, and local taxes,
in their total burden, at present probably would prevent every corpora-
tion in Japan from earning any net income whatsoever, with consequent
insolvency for every tax-payer who paid in full as the law seems to
require. The Japanese can avoid this dire result by improper practices
but the foreign corporations would not operate under such conditions.
For purposes of certainty, and a proper and honest scheme of taxation,
it would seem, therefore, highly desirable and perhaps essential, that
the national government preempt the entire field of taxation, as ap-
plied to business income, and that local and prefectural governments
be entirely excluded from such fields. While this, at first impres-
sion would seem a drastic limitation upon necessary local and provincial
revenues,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 417,
June 28, 1949.
-4-
revenues, it is very doubtful that this would be the case. A certain
tax, honestly and energetically levied, would result in revenues
hitherto unknown, even at lower rates, and it might well be feasible
for the national government to make returns to the provincial and
local governments out of the total national revenues derived from
taxing business income. This, of course, is a complicated matter,
requiring intensive study, but the objective is so important, from
the standpoint of tax honesty and efficiency, that it is well worth
attempting.
RESTRICTED
