894.5611 Emigration From Japan To United States. Wherever Correspondence Pertaining To Migration Is Capable Of Being Classified As Immigration Above It Is So Treated., March 21, 1932 - April 6, 1933 (File 778)
ID: 894.5611-778   Pages: 16   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5611-emigration-from-japan-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 6, 1933.

MHH:

Attached are two memoranda prepared by the Treaty Division:

The first, of March 19, 1932, is entitled "Policy and Practice of Japanese Government in relation to the Emigration of Japanese Laborers to the United States". It might be of interest for purposes of reference. The second, of March 19, 1932, relates to Japanese emigration to Latin American countries, especially Brazil. It contains no information new to the Division.

If there are to be filed in FE, they might well be filed in Room 381.

YES:CLS

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION

March 21, 1932.

A-B:

Dear Mr. Bundy:

In continuation of the research which the Treaty Division has been making around the treaty of commerce and navigation of 1911 between the United States and Japan, I send you herewith two memoranda prepared by Mr. Whittington, as follows:

1) Policy and Practice of Japanese Government in Relation to the Emigration of Japanese Laborers to the United States, which includes an explanation of the general policy of Japan in regard to emigration, and

2) Japanese Emigration to Latin American Countries, Especially Brazil.

Charles M. Barnes,
Chief, Treaty Division.

Accompaniment:
Two memoranda,
March 19, 1932.

TD: CMB: MM

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
March 18, 1932.

VISA DIVISION
7 1933
Department of State

VSA
711.942.4
150.946.4

POLICY AND PRACTICE OF JAPANESE GOVERNMENT IN RELATION TO THE EMIGRATION OF JAPANESE LABORERS TO THE UNITED STATES.

In the Treaty Division's memorandum dated February 18, 1932, titled "Negotiations Leading to the Conclusion of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of February 21, 1911, between the United States of America and Japan," it was stated that the Japanese Foreign Minister, in April 1910, declared that his Government intended to continue the existing manner of restricting its emigrants.

It will be noted also that a Declaration of the Japanese Ambassador in Washington is published together with the Treaty and Protocol, to the effect that the Japanese Government undertakes to maintain "with equal effectiveness the limitation and control which they have for the past three years exercised in the regulation of the emigration of labourers to the United States."

An investigation of the Japanese emigration policy as it then existed reveals it to have been a "policy of concentration". This policy was aptly explained in February 1910 by Count Komura, the Japanese Foreign Minister, in reply to criticisms and questions originating

in

FILED
APR 18 1932

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

in the budget committee of the Japanese House of Representatives, as shown by press clippings sent to the Department by the American Embassy at Tokyo.

Count Komura outlined the situation thus: Japan, as a sequel to the late war, had been transformed from an insular empire into a continental power; observing her environment, on the West there was the Chinese Empire with 400 million people, and on the North the Russian Empire with 160 million people, and on the East the United States Republic with 100 million people; surrounded by such mighty nations it was deemed essential that Japan's population should rise to 100 millions and that they should not be scattered abroad over the face of the earth, but should be concentrated as far as possible in one region; in pursuance of this basic policy the Japanese Government was resolved to concentrate emigration to Manchuria and Korea, particularly since other eligible quarters of the globe had one by one been closed to them by foreign powers; the Japanese Government was ready therefore to render assistance and encouragement to all emigration to Manchuria and Korea, where there was said to be ample space available for the inflow of from 20 to 30 million persons, and where the conditions were specially favorable and desirable for Japanese concentration.

This policy of the Japanese Government was editorially summarized

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

summarized as follows by one Japanese journal: "She intends to grow in her place, without extending her area by aggression or by sufferance."

The policy outlined by Count Komura met with a great deal of popular criticism, as well as opposition in the Imperial Diet. It was denounced, for instance, as being nothing but a "laissez faire" policy. Likewise, much doubt was expressed as to the practicability of the scheme; as illustrated by the following, which appeared in the Japanese Press:

"Manchuria is Japan's leased territory, it is true, but at the expiration of the term some convention must be concluded between Japan and China. The future of Manchuria is indeed full of doubt. Under such conditions the idea that Japanese emigrants can be concentrated in Manchuria is rather an optimistic view of Count Komura's."

Among the exceptions taken to the Government's policy was also the alleged fact that the number of emigrants to Korea and Manchuria was not commensurate with the ever growing population of Japan. A Progressist leader in the Japanese House of Representatives inquired: Was Japan to be cooped up in a small section of the Far East, and denied a right to expansion which all other countries claim for themselves? Was it not essential that she should exert herself vigorously and take effective steps to struggle against the hostile discrimination

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
- 4 -

discrimination of which her people were the victims?

In brief, the general policy of the Japanese Government at the time she requested this Government to consider the matter of negotiating a new treaty to replace that of 1894, was to the effect that if Japan was to hold her own among the neighboring Powers with larger populations, she must increase her population by centralization, and to this end confine her emigration to Manchuria and Korea. It was declared, however, that the Government would not necessarily prohibit emigration to other parts of the world, so long as the general policy was not obstructed.

With reference to the method of controlling emigration from Japan to the United States, in accordance with the policy mentioned above, a review may be made of the laws and regulations in force in Japan at the period in question.

On April 8, 1896, there was enacted in Japan a Law for the Protection of Emigrants (Law No. 70). Revisions of this Law were adopted in April 1897, February 1902, and April 1907. For the purposes of the Law, emigrants were defined as "persons who go to foreign countries other than China and Korea for the purpose of engaging in labor." It was provided that an emigrant could not travel abroad without first obtaining permission from an administrative

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

administrative office, which might forbid the emigrant to travel or might cancel a travel permit. The facility of emigrating was in other ways restricted. The activities of emigration companies or agencies and of emigrant ships were regulated. Penalties for violating the legislative provisions were specified. It was provided that the law should not apply to persons who emigrated according to special treaties concluded with the Japanese Empire.

Rules for the Operation of the Law for the Protection of Emigrants were adopted by Department of Foreign Affairs Ordinance No. 3 of June 8, 1907, amended by Ordinance No. 4 of May 1909. (A further amendment was adopted by Ordinance No. 3 of November 1914.) By these regulations, emigrants and the restrictions upon their movements were more fully defined, and the activities of emigration agencies and the operation of emigrant ships were more fully governed. The legislative provisions were in general given practical effect.

In pursuance of the legislative restriction of emigration and the general policy with respect to centralization, as well as the attitude of the United States Government in restricting immigration from the Far East and the so-called Gentlemen's Agreement whereby the

Government

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-

Government of Japan undertook to restrict Japanese labor emigration to this country, the Japanese Government adopted a method of regulating very strictly the emigration of laborers to the United States.

The nature of the "limitation and control which they [the Japanese Government] have for the past three years exercised in regulation of the emigration of labourers to the United States," as referred to in the Declaration of February 21, 1911, may be sufficiently clear from the preceding remarks. However, a further light may be thrown on the subject by observing an incident occurring just after the treaty of February 21, 1911, had been signed. It seems that at a meeting of the Japanese Provincial Governors they protested against the existing method of determining who should be permitted to emigrate to the United States, it being declaimed that the Governors, after taking the applications and obtaining the other necessary papers, were then obliged to send them to the Foreign Office for decision. It was further contended that the Governors should be entrusted with the final disposition of these applications. Foreign Minister Komura called the Governors together on April 24 and discussed with them the emigration question. He advised them of the nature of the Government's undertaking to

restrict

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-

restrict emigration to the United States; that the Government's policy in that respect was firmly fixed and would not be departed from; and that the method of issuing passports would continue as theretofore. It appears further that the Governors, upon receiving Komura's statement, raised no objection whatever, and that they understood the situation.

**Present Status of Japanese Emigration**

To the extent that the information available in the Department bears upon the subject of the emigration of Japanese laborers to this country, there is nothing to suggest that the Japanese Government does not still adhere to the policy and practice which, as outlined herein, she undertook to maintain and enforce. It appears that the Japanese centralization policy, or colonization scheme involving the emigration of Japanese to Manchuria and Korea, has not been relinquished, although it seems not to have been carried out with very much success. Greater attention has within recent years been given to the colonization of Japanese in certain sections of Latin America.

With reference to the Japanese Law for the Protection of Emigrants and the Rules and Methods adopted in support

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-

support thereof, the latest evidence that they remain in force is embodied in a despatch dated October 14, 1920, from the American Embassy at Tokyo. The Department has received no information to the effect that any part of the legislation and regulations, as heretofore summarized, has been repealed or does not remain in operation.

As for the manner of restricting the emigration of laborers to this country, it does not appear that the Japanese Government has lessened her vigilance along this line, although her interest in securing an opportunity for settling her subjects in this country has by no means become extinct. It should be noted that the annual Japanese emigration to this country has shown a decrease, particularly since 1924, which happens to be the year in which the New United States Immigration Act was passed. Referring to the data received by the Department from diplomatic and consular officers in Japan, it is observed that in 1920 almost 6-1/2 thousand Japanese emigrants came to the United States; in 1921 nearly 4-1/2 thousand; in 1922 over 3-1/2 thousand; in 1923 over 2-1/2 thousand; in 1924 slightly over 4 thousand; and in 1925 a few over 2 thousand. During the next four years

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-

years, including 1929, it is evidenced that an average of hardly more than 2 thousand was retained, - not half the annual average of about 4-1/5 thousand during the period 1920 to 1924. There seem to be no suitable data in the Department's records covering the years 1930 and 1931. However, in 1931 a report received by the Department called attention to an alleged statement by the Japanese Prime Minister to the effect that the people of Japan were watching with increased interest the question of emigration to the United States. Nevertheless, while the Japanese may have retained an acute interest in the question, there is still nothing thus far observed in the records suggesting that the Japanese Government does not materially adhere to the close restriction of such emigration in accordance with the policy and practice referred to herein.

In order that a clearer view may be obtained with respect to the general problem of Japanese emigration since the Treaty and Protocol of 1911 were signed, directing attention mainly to the Manchurian angle of the problem and the broad policy of the Japanese Government, the pertinent records on the subject are herein-after reviewed. The problem of Japanese emigration to Brazil

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-

Brazil and other Latin American states, as indicated hereinafter, has gained predominance within the past decade. However, since the present memorandum is devoted mainly to the general Japanese policy at the time of the signing of the agreement of 1911, and the attitude of the Japanese Government toward the restriction of emigration to the United States, the Latin American angle of the problem is given more extensive consideration in a separate memorandum.

It is evident that Japan has encountered much difficulty in executing its emigration policy. The American Consulate General at Tokyo, in submitting to the Department under date of June 30, 1925, statistics and comments upon Japanese emigration, remarked:

"Even in Manchuria and Kwantung Province, where apparently Japan's greatest effort at colonization has been made, the total number of Japanese residents was but 179,484. * * * When Japan's population problem is considered, it is seen that emigration to foreign countries offers no appreciable aid in its solution. * * * Nor does Manchuria seem to promise a satisfactory outlet for Japan's population, since the Japanese residing in that country constitute a more or less shifting population, devoted to trade and industry, and scarcely able to compete without special privileges, either with Chinese laborers, or Chinese merchants. * * * Korea

and

=== Page 13 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-

and Formosa have both received a considerable influx of Japanese, but both are already quite densely populated and the Japanese form but from two to three per cent of the total population of Formosa."

According to the American Ambassador at Tokyo the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs, in an address before the Japanese Diet on January 20, 1926, said: "It is not our policy to send emigrants to any country in which they are not welcome." In this connection, it is reported that on August 23, 1926, Marquis Komura, then Assistant Chief of the Intelligence Bureau, summoned the foreign press correspondents in Tokyo and informed them that Japan had recently changed its emigration policy and would not thereafter send emigrants to those countries in which they were not welcome, but that the Government would encourage the colonization of the undeveloped parts of the Japanese Empire. The foreign correspondents cabled this statement abroad as an official announcement of the Japanese Government.

By a telegram dated August 26, 1926, the American Ambassador at Tokyo informed the Department that the press reports to the effect that Japan had recently reversed its emigration policy were misleading, and that the Embassy was informed by the Foreign Office that there had been no change; it had been for some time a part of

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-

of the general policy of the Japanese Government not to encourage emigration to lands where her emigrants were not welcomed.

The American Consulate at Kobe, by a report dated February 26, 1927, quoted an editorial from an English-language newspaper printed at Osaka, with the recommendation that the information contained in the editorial was substantially correct and accurately interpretive of the Japanese emigration movement from 1920 to 1925. After citing official data in relation to the growth of the population in Japan the editorial stated as follows:

"If this rapid and steady multiplication persists--and all indications go to support this hypothesis--Japan may at last burst. * * *
In the meantime, the outward movement of Japanese, as we propose to review below, is as slender and hopeless as has been our past ambition for colonial expansion."

After dwelling at some length upon statistics, the editorial stated:

"Thus the greatest number of Japanese abroad live in Manchuria, the United States, Hawaii, Brazil, China and Canada. * * *
The number of Japanese in Manchuria, China and Siberia has decreased slightly during the six years considered.

"Thus we see that more than half a century of Japanese emigration has brought results hardly commensurate with the efforts spent."

The

=== Page 15 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-

The Consulate, commenting upon the general trend of Japanese emigration and government policies, made the following statement:

"The decrease in Japanese emigration to China, Manchuria and Siberia since 1920 is considered of importance in connection with the emigration policy of Japan. The failure of Japanese emigrants to compete with Chinese in the more sparsely populated sections of the Far East, such as Manchuria and Mongolia, would appear to necessitate a more or less vigorous South American emigration policy."

The Consulate added that there seemed to be no longer any considerable opinion in Japan in favor of emigration to the United States, it being realized that such emigration could not be carried out successfully.

By a despatch dated December 4, 1930, the Consulate General at Tokyo submitted a report concerning the residence of Japanese subjects abroad. Calling attention to certain statistics recently released by the Japanese Foreign Office, and reviewing the movement of Japanese abroad since 1920, it was stated:

"The United States and Australia are eliminated as countries desirable as a destination for Japanese emigrants. South American countries, especially Brazil, appear to be the only available countries offering the proper facilities for extended Japanese emigration."

Although no further information is at present available on the subject, that which has been noted in

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
-14-

in the present memorandum seems to afford a fair conception of the status of Japanese emigration, at least in so far as the United States is concerned.

W.W.B.

W.W.B.
