894.50A Economic Matters., Japan, Economic Adviser., December 26, 1946 - April 26, 1948 (File 1629)
ID: 894.50A-1629   Pages: 4   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50a-economic-matters-japan
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
DEC 26 1944
894.50A/12-2646
894.50A/12-2646
1

In reply refer to
JK

Dear Major Plimsoll:

I can only make an interim reply at this time to your letter of December 4 offering very generously to make Australian economic and engineering experts available for reparations work in Japan.

As you will note from the press release which you attached to your letter, the committee appointed by Secretary Patterson is empowered solely to "discuss the recruitment of competent trained personnel." Until these discussions have been completed I am unable to give you a final answer.

I hope to be able to write you again on this within a month. The patience which you have shown thus far is appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

Edwin M. Martin
Chief, Division of Japanese and Korean Economic Affairs

Major J. Plimsoll,
Australian Delegate,
Far Eastern Commission,
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C.

JK:BMartin:jph 12-9-46 1 A B S A-H

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Nanking, China, April 26, 1948

Dear Walt:

I have your letter, enclosing a copy of one from George Kerr, and am glad of this occasion to comment on conditions prevailing in Formosa. My impression is that Kerr is essentially correct in his description of discontent and incipient revolt, though all this is colored by his own sympathies. The source of dissatisfaction seems to me to be now in the inefficiency, ineptitude and inexperience of those responsible rather more than primarily on moral grounds. In other words, the first stage of mainland misrule is being succeeded by more honest efforts to rectify the previous blunders and to employ more competent personnel with a more intelligent treatment of the natives. Some of the difficulties are inherent in the disruption of the highly organized Japanese economy before the Chinese were prepared to replace this. Others lie in the excessive centralization of all authority in Nanking, represented especially in this case by the National Resources Commission. The present Governor is by no means ideal, and is seriously handicapped by his wife, but he seems really to be endeavoring to make a good showing--whatever his motives--and is learning a great deal in the process. I have rather changed my mind as to the desirability of replacing him by a more forceful personality. Formosa is entangled in the national struggle to produce revenue by all means for immediate needs and this is aggravated by its special history.

What can best be done about this undeniably unsatisfactory situation? As with so much else in China the deficiency is not so much of money or even of morals as of the "know-how". This is all a little more glaring in Taiwan against the background of Japanese colonial policy, the recognized potentialities of the Island, and the incredibly bad initial period of restoration to China. I reaffirm my conviction that the only hopeful solution is a high-grade American industrial adviser, with assistants such as S. A. Trane, the emphasis being on economic development rather than political reforms. The latter could be urged as essential to the former and as growing out of concrete experience. This could include the extremely delicate issues of decentralized control and such measure of independence from

the

The Honorable
W. Walton Butterworth,
Director, Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington.

894A.50A/4-2648
994A.50A/4-2648
FILES/V

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

the N.R.C. as may be practicable. The suggestion of Mr. G. S. Armstrong seems to me admirable. I have advised that instead of others in the Embassy speaking of him to Governor Wei Tao-min or Chang Chiang, I take it up first with the Gimo. He has been so completely preoccupied of late with National Assembly and related matters that I have not pressed for an interview to discuss this relatively minor topic. I suggest that you approach Mr. Armstrong and let me know the result by radio. If he does not care to consider the proposition try to find someone else of his type. I shall meanwhile have consulted the Gimo, but am confident that he will be favorable in principle. He has already assured me of this. Wei Tao-min is coming to Nanking next month and I shall take up the matter with him.

This is a fine opportunity to assist the Chinese leaders in ways other than merely supplying funds. There are not a few mainland officials of varying ranks who are really trying to improve things on the Island and some of the natives are beginning to be more cooperative. Once conditions will have become more stable it ought to be possible to encourage more joint Chinese-American private companies along the lines of the Reynolds Aluminum interests. This ought to help solve the economic problems elsewhere in China wherever there is reasonable political security, and in turn it will strengthen the Government against Communism while indirectly contributing toward the needed reforms. This is why I am so deeply interested in Formosa and Kwangtung.

With greetings to Virginia, Cynthia and Blair, and warm regards for yourself.

Very sincerely yours,

J. Haighten Stewart

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.91)
FORM 5-222
7-18-46

INDUSTRY
☑ Collect
☐ Charge Department
Charge to

OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CONFIDENTIAL

Department of State
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL Control 494
May 4, 1948, 6 p.m.

AMEMBASSY,
MANKING.
673
FOR AMBASSADOR FROM BUTTERWORTH.

Many thanks your helpful letter Apr 26.
On question Armstrong it is preferable that Chinese authorities take initial action and that we thereafter render them every assistance.

Marshall
(wwB)
MARSHALL

re sending high grade American industrial adviser

894A.50A/4-2648
CS/V

894A.50A/4-2648
CS/V

DISTRIBUTION DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)

FE:WWButterworth:ms
5-4-48

CONFIDENTIAL

CR CLEARANCE

★ U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1847 726338
