894.20246C Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Ceylon Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., Septemb (File 1451)
ID: 894.20246C-1451   Pages: 5   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20246c-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 608

AMERICAN CONSULATE
Colombo, Ceylon,
September 25, 1944.

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: Further Japanese Propaganda broadcasts
Directed to Ceylon.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

With reference to this Consulate's despatch no. 578, of September 6, 1944, I have the honor to enclose portions of recent monitoring bulletins of the Ceylon Department of Information which contained Japanese propaganda broadcasts meant for Ceylon.

It appears from these excerpts that the Japanese are making every effort to contrast their own "grant of Freedom" to Burma and the Netherlands East Indies with the apparent reluctance of the British to proceed speedily with measures granting more self-government to Ceylon. By reiterated references in these broadcasts to "Anglo-American" policies, the Japanese intend to create the impression that the United States Government shares responsibility with the British for the status of the subject peoples in India and Ceylon.

As stated in the previous despatch, it is not believed that these programs reach any appreciable number of listeners in Ceylon, but that they do indicate the type of Japanese propaganda directed towards dependent peoples in the Asiatic theatre of war.

Respectfully yours,

Robert L. Buell
American Consul

Enclosure:
Japanese broadcasts referring to Ceylon from September 3-22:

1. Free India -- Saigon, Indochina
(Quoted from the Simla monitoring bulletin), September 3.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

2. Radio Singapore, September 7.
3. Free Lanka Radio (probably in Malaya or Burma), September 11.
4. Free Lanka Radio, September 15.
5. Free Lanka Radio, September 16.
6. Free Lanka Radio, September 17.
7. Singapore Radio, September 22.

File no. 800
RDG:fm

Source of Information: Ceylon Department of Information.

Copies to: American Embassy, London
American Mission, New Delhi

Ozalid to the Department.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 608, dated September 25, 1944, from Robert L. Buell, American Consul at Colombo, Ceylon, on the Subject: Further Japanese Propaganda Broadcasts Directed to Ceylon.

JAPANESE BROADCASTS REFERRING TO CEYLON
FROM SEPTEMBER 3-22.

1. FREE INDIA -- SAIGON: "Ceylon cannot look indifferently to India's struggle for freedom. Lately, political crises have occurred in Ceylon. News received from there indicates that the proposals which the Ministers of the Ceylon Board sent to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Oliver Stanley, have been rejected. The British have sent a Committee to Ceylon to tide over the political troubles there; but in protest, the Ministers of the Ceylon Board have withdrawn their proposals. Commenting on the situation in Ceylon the London 'Times' writes that the Ministers of the Ceylon board committed a blunder in withdrawing their proposals. The people of Ceylon are eager to free themselves and the Royal Commission is trying to block all the efforts of the Sinhalese at emancipating their country from British rule.

"The Sinhalese Ministers now perfectly understand the sinister British designs and they have ceased cooperating with the British Government." - September 3.

2. RADIO SINGAPORE: "State Council Conference: There is further news to-day that the people of Ceylon are preparing to present a united front against the British in order to wrest their freedom. A Reuter despatch from Colombo says that the members of the State Council are holding a conference to-day with a view to presenting a united front against the British on the subject of the reforms.

"Their object is the organization of a country-wide boycott campaign of the British Commission which the Secretary of State is planning to send out to the Island." - September 7, 21.00 Hours 31 M.

3. FREE LANKA RADIO: "HELP JAPAN! The Br. have increased the plunder of India in the matter of foodstuffs to supply the Anglo-Am. armies. They exploit Lanka in the same way. Travelling is impossible for civilians because the Anglo-Am. armies have to be provided with means of travel. By this means, by the exploitation of our own country is this war to keep us in bondage being fought. Japan has granted freedom to Burma, Philippines and E. Indies and she has promised Bose full support of her powerful forces for the liberation of India. There is a National Army under Nethaji for the liberation of India. We must combine and drive out the British. Chiang-Kai-Shek is complaining of lack of equipment for his army. There is dissension in the Anglo-Am. camp. The Japs. will surely crush the Br. It is up to us to do our bit to deserve freedom and independence and help Japan so that thereby we may win our own freedom." - September 11, 22.10 HOURS.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

4. RADIO FREE LANKA: Anglo-Ams. and Japan: Contrast: "Brit. propagandists have been telling the world that the Axis Powers are the enemies of freedom and that they are the enemies of all Asia. They have also told you that the Anglo-Ams. are fighting for democracy and for small nations so that every nation will have freedom to live as it pleases. But the Brit. declared India a belligerent without even consulting the Indian people.

"Am. and Brit. may now express their championship of the cause of the small nations - but that is only for the purpose of exploiting our country's produce and manpower. Am. and Brit. are not motivated by altruism but by their own imperialistic aims and desire to dominate Asia.

"Japan has entered the war in the cause of freedom and liberty for the small nations of Asia. Indians living in East Asia as well as our other Asiatic compatriots will testify to this. Even in the midst of this war she has granted independence to Burma, and Premier Koiso has promised independence to Java. These are concrete examples of the sincerity of Japan and it is up to us to follow the right path if we would obtain freedom. Japan has sounded a clarion call for the freedom and independence of all Asiatic nations." - September 15, 22.13 Hrs.

5. FREE LANKA RADIO: Mr. Senanayake on Brit. Exploitation: "Mr. D. S. Senanayake, the Leader of the Sinhalese, has bewailed the result of helping the Brit. when the Brit. Empire was tottering owing to the efforts of Germany and Japan. He has complained bitterly of the exploitation of the country by the Anglo-Ams. because it has brought no beneficial results to the country. Mr. Senanayake has awakened too late; and is it not surprising that he should be allowed to voice these sentiments? Do not be surprised. It has been tolerated because it is nothing but the truth - but yet not the whole truth for the picture of Brit. exploitation is far worse than that which Mr. Senanayake has drawn.

"We in this part of the world know the difference of being in Ceylon under the Brit. and in Burma under the Japs. We know what is freedom - we are treated as equals; there is no superiority complex such as characterises the dealings of Anglo-Ams. with us. There is no exploitation and there is no injustice done to us merely because we do not belong to the ruling race.

"Fellow countrymen, every day we are growing more and more united in our efforts and desire to preserve our freedom and we long that this freedom be enjoyed by you also. The Indian National Army is daily growing in numbers and it is their determination to set you free." - September 16, 22.15 Hrs.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
MAIL
-3-

6. FREE LANKA RADIO: Coming to "Liberate" Ceylon:
The British have said that they are holding the Govt. of India to ensure that justice is done to the minorities. They want to justify their hold on Ceylon also on the same ground. In fact these communal differences are engineered by the Brit. themselves: that is the policy of the Brit. So long as the Brit. remain these differences will remain. You can never enjoy freedom under the iron heel of the Anglo-Am. imperialists. Bose and many other leaders have expressed their admiration and love for our country. They are coming out to deliver you.

As soon as the rainy season is over we will come to liberate you. Armed might is required to crush the Anglo-Am. imperialists and with that we will furnish you." - September 17, 22.15 hrs.

7. SINGAPORE RADIO: Ceylon Reforms Commission:
"The announcement of the appointment of the Chairman of the Commission which is coming out to Ceylon to draw up a new constitution for that country, has given a fresh impetus to the anti-Br. unrest in the Island. Leaders of the communities in the Island are making plans for the boycott of the Commission because they feel that the commission is merely coming out to devise ways and means to exploit the country to the maximum. The Ceylon Board of Ministers has strongly criticised the appointment of the commission and expressed their indignation by withdrawing the scheme they submitted.

"American Business Men in France: Referring to the 'Daily Mail' report the commentary stated that the U. S. had shown the cloven foot. She was trying to exploit, not a backward country, but a modern state while advertising that she had entered France to liberate her. What freedom could India expect from such greedy imperialists?" - September 22, 2100 hrs. 31 m.

FM
Source of Information: Ceylon Department of Information.
