894.85 Japan, Merchant Vessels. Yachts. Immunities Of Government -Controlled., October 11, 1945 - December 30, 1949 (File 1835)
ID: 894.85-1835   Pages: 447   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.85-japan-merchant-vessels-9
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
于本
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
TANDARD FORM NO. 64
J. W. Ballantine
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
DATE: OCT 11 1945
TO
State Department
FROM :
Constance G. Gaynor a. .
Project Control Staff
JS-34 Addenda: The Volume and Character of Japan's Merchant Shipping.
894.85/10-1145
SUBJECT:
Attached is a copy of the above addenda for your use.
15L
Office of
Confidantial
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
pil
0CT 1 2 1945
DIRPCTOR
one
Department of State
JA
files
10-1145
CS

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
JS-34
Addonda
SECRET
Copy No.
13
FORBIGN EOONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
Japanese Special Services Staff
ADDIIDA TO
THE VOLTDE AND CHARACTER
OF JAPAN'S MEROHANT SHIPPING
VE
2171
Confidential File
July 30, 1945
SECRE
16-006 Cover

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
-1-
SEGRET
Appendix D
METHOD OF ESTIMATING DISTRIBUTION (EMPLOYMENT)
OF JAPAN'S COMMERCIAL SHIPPING
Table 5a.
1. Totals (mumber and gross tonnage) are derived from Table 1
and from Kaiun Oyobi Keisai Chosa Hokoka (Survey of Shipping and Marine
Economy) of Jamuary-June, 1938.
2. The estimate for shipping employed in the overseas area is
the sum of (a) shipping employed on regular overseas routes at the end
of 1937, as given by Kaiun Oyobi Keisai Chosa Hokoku (Survey of Shipping
and Marine Economy) of July-December, 1937, plus (b) shipping engaged
on irregular runs in the overseas area at the beginning of Janmary, 1938,
given in deadweight tons by the Oriental Economist of November, 1940.
Conversion to gross tonnage is made on the basis of an analysis of
deadweight-to-gross ratios for Japanese ships, 1/ which indicates an
average of about 1.5 (d.w.t. to 1 g.t.) for the small-to-medium sise
ships generally used within the nearseas area, and about 1.4 for the
above-medium size vessels generally employed in overseas service.
3. The estimate for shipping engaged "within the nearseas area"
is made on the same basis as that for the overseas area, with the
arbitrary addition of all sailing vessels 20 g.t. and over (other than
known fishing vessels and those reported as laid up), and of all vessels
less than 20 g.t. (after deducting Imom fishing vessels and 10% of the
remaining total, the estimate assumed for layupa).
4. The estimate for "other disposition" is explained in Table 5c.
and its footnotes.
1/ The Dook and Harbor Authority, December, 1940; Military
Intelligence Photo Interprotation Report No. 51,397, February
20,1945。
16-000 Pr or 4 bu--

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
SECRET
Table 5b.
1. Total shipping estimated to have been employed within the
limits of the nearseas area is derived from Table 5a., and is
sxplained in paragraph 2, above.
2. Estimates for the "ealm water", "coastal", and "nearseas"
areas were arrived at by applying to the total for "within nearseas"
(end of 1937) the average pereentage of the corresponding total
empleyed within each of the three areas in earlier years. An analysis
was made of date from Kaiii Yoren (Maritime Affairs) for 1936, showing
employment of stean and motor vessels (1916-1934) and sailing vessels
(1916-1927); combined totals for 1925-1927 (inolusive) were taken to
calculate the average percentages. Satisfactery data for later years
are lacking.
16-008 P2 bu

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
SECRET
Appendix E
NOTES REGARDING CARGO TONNAGE ESTIMATES
USED IN TABLE 6a
1. Evaluations for cargoes between (a) Japan and foreign
countries, (b) Japan and Korea, and (c) Japan and Formosa were
made on the basis of statistics appearing in the trade returns
cited in the table's list of sources. Quantities in units other
than long tens were converted by using standard conversion factors
appearing in Far Eastern Meagurement Units (mimeographed pamphlet
issued by F.E.A.; undated). The figures are not complete to the
last ton. For some commodities no quantity statistics are included
in the trade returns, and no satisfactory formula is available fer
converting valme figures to quantity figures for the commodities
in question.
2. Estimates for cargoes between Japan and Karafuto and Japan
and the Mandated Islands (Nanyo) are explained in footnote "o" of
the table.
16-006 P3 bu

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
SECRET
Appendix F
METHOD OF ESTIMATING
BULK CARGO CARRYING CAPACITIES
(Table 7)
1. "Basic" eapacity estimates were made by the Joint Target
Group in the report eited wnder Table 7. The methodology employed
by J.T.G. is explained thoroughly and at some length in the report.
The salient points are as follows:
(a) For each kind of vessel the approximate deadweight
to gross ton ratio and average speed (kmots) is given;
(b) For each area of operation the average mumber of
operational days per year is given, based upon
meteorological information, and with variations for
full-powered and anxiliary-powered vessels;
(c) For each sample run the round trip distance (nautical
miles) estimated time in port (in days) are given;
(d) Number of round trips per year is then calculated
as follows:
(1) Round trip distance divided by speed in kmots
gives running time;
(2)
Running time plus time in port equals turn-
around time;
(3)
Operational days per year divided by turn-
arond time (in days) gives number of round
trips annually.
(e) Annual bulk cargo carrying capacity is then calculated
as: gross tonnage (of shipping allocation) times
deadweight-to-gross ratio times mumber of round trips
per year.
2. "Probable maximum" capacity estinates are 1l0% of "basic"
estimates, as explained in footnoted "a" of Table 7.
16-006 P4 bu-fina1

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
SAVE
3019
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
RECKIVED
JUN 2 2 1949
DIVISION OF
SWN-3550
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DC/R
1945
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Department of Stale
Subject:
Disposition of Captured Japrnese Merchant
Vessels.
By inform:1 cotion on 3 November 1945 the State-
War-Navy Coordinatin Committee annroved JCs 1500/5, copy
enclosed herewith.
In cmprovin Jos 15oe/c, the Committee concurred
in the dispr tch by the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the messege
in A endi- "B", nd in the proposed procedure for divesting
894.85
the interects of Jeounese nationals in Jenanese merchant
vessels.
It is recuested thet  hen a trerty of peace with
Jepen is drafted provision be made for rr tifying the
tranefer of interect es set forth in the approved paper.
For the Stete-War-Yavy Coordineting Committee:
2645
XR740.00119
Contrcl (gapan)
Acting Chairman
Encl.
J0S 1500/E, 0py No. 69
Nr nit
12:2
JUN 221949
FILED
1a1
Dist
SECRET
05

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
COPY NO.
69
J.C.S. 1500/3
2 November 1945
Pages 10
20, inc1.
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
DISPOSITION OF CAPTURED JAPANESE MERCHANT VESSELS
References:
a. J.C.S. 1500 Series
b. a.c.s. 928
Roport by the Joint Logistics Committee in collaboration
With the Joint Military Transportation Committee
THE PROBLEM
1. To submit recommendations on a memorandum from the War
Shipping Administrator concerning the legal aspects of
divesting the interests of Japanese nationels in Japanese
merchant vessels (J.C.S. 1500/2).
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. The Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers (SCAP) has
estimated that approximately one and one-half million tons of
shipping (vessels over one hundred gross tons) were under
Japanese control upon the cossation of hostilities. It is
estimated that this tonnage comprises vessels numbering upward
of 600.
3. There are three possible procedures to divest Japanese
interest:
. Prize procedure in United States courts or in the
ports of consenting co-belligerents or in territory which
is in the temporary or permanent possession or occupation
by U.S. armed forces.
b. Requisition by the Japanese Government of the interest
of its nationals in Japanese merchant vessels and thereafter
the transfer of title in such vessels es desired by SCAP.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R ET
C
c. Provision in the treaty of peace with Japan similar
to that of the Treaty of Versailles with Germany, ratifying
the requisition and transfer of title of Japanese merchant
vessels.
DISCUSSION
4. Appendix "c" (page 14) sets forth the details of the
procedure under these three alternative methods.
CONCLUSIONS
5. SCAP should direct the Japanese Government to requisition
the title of all Japanese merchant vessels which it is desired
be appropriated and then transfer the requisitioned interest to
SCAP in behalf of the United Nations. This transfer of interest
should be without prejudice to agreements ultimately to be
made among the Allied governments concerned as to the
disposition of title to such vessels.
6. The treaty of peace with Japan should contain an appropriate
provision ratifying this transfer of interest.
7. Prize proceedings should be initiated in particular cases
where difficulty or uncertain ownership appears.
8. In view of its political implications, this matter should
be referred to the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee before
instructions are transmitted to SCAP.
RECOMMENDATIONS
9. It is recommended that:
a. The memorandum
in Appendix "A" (page 12) be forwarded
to the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee.
b. Upon the concurrence of the State-War-Navy Coordinating
Committee, the message in Appendix "B" (page 13) be dispatched
to SCAP.
C. A copy of this report be furnished to the Administrator,
War Shipping Administration.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX "A"
D R A F T
MEMORANDUM FOR THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Enclosed are copies of J.C.S. 1500/2 and J.c.S. 1500/3
concerning the legal aspects of divesting the interests of
Japanese nationals in Japanese morchant vessels. It is
requested that the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee concur
in the dispatch of tho message in Appendix "B" to J.c.S. 1500/3
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
It is roquested that when a treaty of peace with Japan
is drafted provision be made for ratifying the transfer of
interest as set forth in J.c.s. 1500/3.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX "B"
D R A F T
MESSAGE FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED
POWERS
Reference is WARX 64268 (Appendix "A" to J.C.S. 1500
as amended by J.c.S. 1500/1). The Joint Chiefs of Staff have
studied the most offective and oxpeditious method of divesting
the interest of Japanese nationals in Japanese merchant vessels
and consider the following procedure as the most offective:
a. The Supremo Commander for the Allied Powers should
direct the Japanese Government to requisition the title of
all Japanese merchant vessels which it is desired be
appropriated and then transfer the requisitioned interest
to the Supreme Commander. The Supreme Commander is to
receive and hold such interest in bohalf of the United
Nations. This transfer of interest is to bo regarded as
being without prejudice to agreen nts ultimately to be mado
among the Allied governments concerned as to disposition of
title to such vessols.
b. The treaty of peace should contain an appropriato
provision ratifying this transfer of interest.
c. Prizo proccedings should be initiated in particular
cases where difficulty or uncertain ownership appcars.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
S EC RET
APPENDIX "C"
PROCEDURE
FOR
DIVESTING
JAPANESE INTEREST
IN
JAPANESE MERCHANT
VESSELS
1. There are three methods of divesting the interest of
Jepanese nationals in Jepanese merchant vessels, which under
International Law could be thc subject of prize proceedings:
a. By prize proccedings in United States District Courts:
(1) Under the former Pr e Law (34 USC 1131 et seg.):
This involves bringing the Japanese vessel to the United
States or its tcrritories end instituting prize pro-
ceedings through the filing of a libel and the attach-
ment of the vessel by a United States marshal.
This
was the proccdure followed in connection with the SS
EUROPA.
The ncarest Federal Court for Pacific Ocean
cases would be Hawaii.
(2) Through resort to the Prize Law of 1942 (34 USC
1159 et seq.), the so-called co-belligerent port prize
procedure: This would involve sailing Japanese vessels
to ports of a consenting co-belligerent, such as Grest
Eritain, Australia or New Zealand, where initial prize
proceedings are had before specicl Prize commissioners.
(The availability of Hong Kong as a forum is in doubt.)
(3) By a procedure similar to (2) in territory in the
temporary or permanent possession or occupation of armed
forces of the United States: This is provided for in 
pending amendment to the 1942 Prize Law and is specifi-
cally designed to care for problems arising in the
Pacific Ocean areas, where vessels cannot be conveniently
brought to the ports of a consenting co-belligerent.
This bill No. S 1420, as of this date, has passed the
Senate and has been favorably reported by the House

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
Judiciary Committee. When enacted it would permit
initial prize proceedings to be conducted in any occupied
territory. Final disposition of the case would be in the
Northern District of California. Anticipating the
possibility of prize procedurc in the Pecific Ocean areas,
a Special Prize Commissioner (Lt. Comdr. Harry L. Hachl,
USNR), who could function under (2) and (3) has been
designated by the Judge Advocate General of the Navy
and is now attached as Admiralty and Prize Officer to
the Staff of SCAP.
The number of Japanesc vessels, which would be subject to
prize (apart from the fact that proceedings would not be
terminated for a year) make this procedurc of dealing with
each individual ship through condcmnation in prize extremoly
cumbersome and would involve considerable time and labor.
However, in the ovent of controversy as to the status of 
vessel, it is the safest procedure since prize proceedings
convey a title which should be universally recognized.
b. Requisition and transfer of interest:
Instructions to the Jupanese Government to requisition all
the interest of Japanese nationals in Japenese merchant
vessels which it is desired to cppropriate. The Japanese
Government would then be directed to transfer this requi-
sitioned interest as desired by the Supreme Command.
The
Commander, Marianas, has suggested to the Commander in Chief,
U.S. Pacific Fleet, on the recommendation of the Judge
Advocate General of the Navy, considoration of this pro-
cedure (Annex, page 18). The procedure in this paragraph 
should be buttressed by a provision in the treaty of peace,
paragraph c below
c. Peace Trcaty:
By the insertion of a provision in any treaty of peace with
Japan whereby the Japanese Government conveys to the United

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
States or other countries, as desired, the title and all
interest of its nationals in any Jepanese vessel which it
is desired be appropriated. This procedure is that which
was adopted in World War I to divest any interest of German
nationals in the German merchant marine. The provisions in
the Treaty of Versailles were:
1
"Germany recognises the right of the Allied and Associated
Powers to the replacement, ton for ton (gross tonnage)
and class for class, of all merchant ships and fishing
boats lost or damaged owing to the wer.
"Nevertheless, and in spite of the i&ct that the tonnage
of German shipping at present in existence is much less
than that lost by the Allied and Associeted Powers in
consequence of the German aggression, the right thus
recognised will be enforced on German ships and boats
under the following conditions:
"The Gorman Government, on behalf of themselves and so
as to bind all other persons interested, cede to the
Allied and Associated Gevernments the property in all
the German merchant ships which are of 1, 600 tons gross
and upwards, in one-half, reckoned in tonnage, of the
shins which are between 1, 000 tons cnd 1, 60c tons gross;
in one-quarter, reckoned in tonnage, of the steam trawl-
ers; and in one-quarter reckoned in tonnage, of the other
i ishing boets."
2
"The German Government will ithin two months of the coming
into force of the present Treaty, deliver to the Repara-
tion Commission all the ships and boats mentioned in
paragraph 1."
3
"The ships and boats mentioned in paregraph 1 include
all ships and boats which (a) fly, or mey be entitled
to fly, the German merchant fleg: or (b) ere owned by
any German nationel, company or corporetion or by any
company or corporation belonging to a country other than
an Allied or Associated country and under the control or
direction of German nationals; or (c) cre now under con-
struction (1) in Germany, (2) in otner than Allied or
Associated countries for the account of any German nation-
al, company or corporetion."
4
"For the purpose o. providing documents of title for the
ships and boats to be handed over as above mentioned,
the German Government will:
"(a) Deliver to the Reparation Commission in respect
of each vessel a bill of sale or other document of title
evidencing the transfer to & Commission of the entire

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
S E C RE T
property in the vessel, free from all encumbrances,
charges and liens of all kinds, as the Commission may
require;
"(b) Take all measures that may be indicated by the
Reparation Commission for ensuring that the ships
themselves shell be placed at its disposal."
*****************
S
"Gormany waives all cleims of any deseription egeinst
the Allied and Associated Governments and their nationals
in respest of the detention, omployment, lose or damage
of eny German ships or boats except on being made of
payments due in respoet of the employment of ships in
conformity with the Armistice Agreement of January 13,
1919, and subscquent Agreoments.
"The handling over of the ships of the German mercantile
marine must be continued without interruption in eccord-
ance with the said Agreement."
"Germany waives ell cleims to vessels or cargoes sunk
by or in consequenee of naval aetion and subsequently
salved, in which any ci the Allied er Assosieted Govern-
mente or their nationale mey have an. interest either
as owners, charterers, insurers or ctherwise, notwith-
standing any deeree of condemnation whicn may have been
made by e Prize Court of Cormary or of hor allics."
2. It is thought that eitner procedure i L or 1 c. or fer
preferably their combinet on, will be the most effeetive and
expeditious method of divesting the interest of Japanese
nationals in appropriating Jepanese merchens vessels. Any
cases of apparent uncertain ownership or diificulty could be
the subject of speciel prize proceedings.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ANNEX TO APPENDIX "C"
NAVAL SPEEDLETTER
File No. A17-3/FF12/12
Serial No. 11020
Date:
3 0ct 1945
FROM:
Commander Marianas (ComMarianas)
TO:
Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet
and Pacific Ocean Areas (CINCPAC/POA)
Subject: Japanese Merchant Vessels, Acquisition of.
1. Judge Advocate General (JAG) dispatch 201400 has been
received in reply ComMarianas 180719, both September. CINCPAC/
PoA information addressee on ComMarianas dispatch but not on
JAG's, toxt of which follows:
Ur 18&719 JAG view is that any prize procedure adopted
for Japanese vessels must be controlled by operating situation
as required by military considerations. Necessity of or con-
venionce in handling prize proceedings should not be advanced
as  factor controlling Japanese vessel operation or dis-
position. Plan of operation specified your despatch affords
additional support for pending amendment to prize laws which
would permit necessary preliminary proceedings by prize com-
missioner in occupied Japanese territory. Approve suggested
procedure of direction by Supreme Commander that Japenese
Government requisition merchant vessels desired by United
Nations and transfer title if possible of accomplishment.
Suggest commander Marianas make this recommendation to CINCPAC
for consideration by Supreme Commander. Pending determination
this procedure and amendment of prize laws consider prize
commissioner should take any preliminary steps where situation
is s ch that prize commissioners action would confer juris-
diction on court. Suggest decision transfer prize commissioner
to Pcarl or Japan await further developments and
clarification
situation.
2. Suggestion made by ComMarianas and approved by JAG is
based on assumption United Nations intend acquire title to
some if not all Japanese merchant vessels.
Such title normally

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
acquired during hostilities by seizure, adjudication and for-
feiture as prize of war. After cessation hostilities but
before termination of war, title may be acquired in same
manner or as term of international agreement between victor
and vanquished nation. After World War I, title to Gorman
merchant vessels not acquired under prize procecure but is
understood to have been transferred by internetional agree-
ment, Whereas after cessation  ostilities in Europe in World
War II prine proceedings were commonced as to such vessels.
While consicerations leadin: to decision emplo prize
machinery in European Theater not known here, it is believed
that absence of clearly established German government follow-
ing cessati on hostilities and consecuent impossibility of
obtainine thtle by aetion or cermar government whiel would
be immune to subsecuent attaek as unauthorized, may have con-
tribute to ecision.
3. Prise proceedings are necessarily sumbereome and long
drawn out dus to necessity of rivins possible claimants to
vessel full opportunity to appoar and contost validity of
prize seirrre. Henee, if methoe other than formal prise
proceedings is available to secure title to desired vesscls,
it would be more expeditiouf to employ it if no pre judice
to legality of title so ecquired were involved.
4. Present Japanese Government believed to possess all
powers formerly held except in so far exeercise thereof now
subordinated to Seap direetion. No question exists as to
which of soveral groups is the authorized government. Hence,
it is bolievei present Japanese Government, if so directed by
ScAP, as full authority to (1) requisition title of privete
owners of designated merchant vessels and (2) transfer title
acquiro as agreed upon, by the Allied Governments concerned.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
5. This procedure is recommended as most expeditious
method of acquisition title to Japaneso merchant vessels,
subject to views of CINcPAc/POA and of such other authority,
to whom the matter may be referred, as is concerned with
decision of over-all policy relating to disposition ultimately
to be mec of such vessels.
C. D. MURRAY

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
60
TRC
LEGATION OF SWEDEN
NOE
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
JK
No. 867
Me m o r a n d u m.
DC/R
According to information received by the Swedish Lega-
tion fron the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the
145
SES
F
Swedish Legation in Tokyo a Swedish vessel, S/S MIRAMAR, be-
三
longing to the Reuter Shipping Compeny, Gothenburg, Sweden,
98 01
is at present operated by the Japanese Shipping Control
Association with a Japanese crew. Upon a request from the
Swedish Legation in Tokyo to the U.S. Mi tary Authorities
a reply has been received from the Assistent Chief of Staff,
G - 2, dated November 8, 1945, to the effect that the MIRAMAR,
having earlier been chartered by the Japanese TAIkOkU Steam-
ship Compeny, could not be released pending the clarifica-
tion of its status and final disposition.
894
The M1RAlAH was operated since 1938 on time charter
principally with rice cargoes in mast India waters. About
8
5
the end of 140 it was chartered by an Iranian subject, M.
Nenazee of Hongkong. The period of charter was originally
2
8
6 months but was subsequently extended to 12 months. The
8
vessel was delivered to M. Nemazee at Hongkong on or about
the
5
26th of February 1ę41. It was im ediately placed on the run
betweon Port Parsival end Longkong to carry limestone, for
which M. Memazee had a contract. From February up to Novem-
ber it made about 35 trips carrying limestone to Hongkong.
CS
During this time it also mede one trip from Saigon to Hong-
SHIPPING DIVISION
ong with a cargo of rice.
W
m.5.7m.
EC271945
and a few bags of charcoal from Bangkok to Macao. The rice
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
cargo was ordered by the Portuguese Government in Macao. En
route to Macao the vessel was ordered by the Japanese Navy to
proceed to Saigon where it was seized h

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGATION OF SWEDEN
WASHINGTON B, D. C.
No. 867
Me m o ran d um.
DC/R
According to information received by the Swedish Lega-
tion from the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the
  1 45
10ES
CH
Swedish Legation in Tokyo a Swedish vessel, S/S MIRAMAR, be-
longing to the Reuter Shipping Company, Gothenburg, Sweden,
is at present operated by the Japanese Shipping Control
Association with a Japanese crew. Upon a request from the
Swedish Legation in Tokyo to the U.S. Mi tary Authorities
in Japan that the MIRAlAR be released to the Swedish owners,
a reply has been received from the Assistant Chief of Staff,
C - 2, dated November 8, 1945, to the effect that the MIRAMAR,
having earlier been chartered by the Japanese TAIkOKU Steam-
ship Conpeny, could not be released pending the clarifica-
tion of its status and final disposition.
894
The M1RAl AR was operated since 1938 on time charter
principelly with rice cargoes in nast India waters. About
8
5
the end of 1 40 it was chartered by an Iranian subject, M.
Henazee of Hongkong. The period of charter was originally
2
6 months but was subsequently extended to 12 months. The
8
vessel was delivered to N. Nemazee at Hongkong on or about
the
5
26th of Februery l941. It was im ediately placed on the run
between Port Parsival and Longkong to carry limestone, for
which m. Hemazee had a contract. From February up to Novem-
ber it made about 35 trips carrying limestone to Hongkong.
During this time it also mede one trip from Saigon to Hong-
C
S
SHIPPING DIVISION
long with e cergo of rice.
m.5.7m.
EC27 1945
and a few bags of charcoal from Rangkok to Macao. The rice
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
cargo was ordered by the Portuguese Government in Macao. En
route to Macao the vessel was ordered by the Japanese Navy to
894.85
proceed to Saigon where it was seized by the Japanese Naval
DCR
NF Unit Authorities and the cargo discharged. The Japanese there-
Anal )
Re
upon operated the vessel under Japanese flag in spite of
Cat
Dial

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
strong Swedish protests. As it seemed unavoidable that the
Japanese otherwise would confiscate the vessel the Swedish
Legation in Tokyo entered into negotiations with the Japanese
authorities and succeeded in the latter part of 1942 to arrive
at an arrengement by which the vessel was chartered to the
Japanese Taikoku Steamship Company, upon condition that the
vessel only shoulc be used in com ercial traffic. By this
arrangenent it was prevented that the ship was altogether
lost for the Swedish Company.
Certainly, the Japanese would
not have hesitated to use the vessel in any case but by the
charter agreement they were at least bound to pay for its
use.
Charter hire was paid until September 9, 1944.
A brief history cf the seizure of the MIRAlAR and its
.1.
charter to the Japanese Taikoku Steamship Company is here-
with attached.
According to information given to the Swedish Legation
in Tokyo by the American authorities in Japan the above
mentioned Japanese shipping company was controlled by the
Japanese government.
As, furthermore, the MIRAMAR had been
utilized by the Japanese navy beforethe charter arrangement
was made it has been indicated to the Swedish Legation in
Tokyo that the vessel may be liable to seizure as a Japanese
vessel.
It has been indicated to the Swedish Legation in Tokyo
that the case will be referred to the State Department and the
Navy Department in Washington for consideretion. The Swedish
Legation has, therefore, been instructed by the Swedish
Ministry for Foreign Affairs to recall the abovementioned
circumstances under which the MIRAMAR was seized by the
Japanese in violation of the Swedish flag and existing rights
of navigation. The later charter arrangement was the only
course open to the Swedish Authorities for avoiding the
confiscation of the vessel, which was already then under
Japanese control. In view thereof it is sincerely hoped that
the U.S. Authorities will see their way clear now to release

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
strong Swedish protests.
As it seemed unavoidable
Japanese otherwise would confiscate the vessel the S
Legation in Tokyo entered into negotiations with the Japan
authorities and succeeded in the latter part of 1942 to
at an arrangement by which the vessel was chartered to the
Japanese Taikoku Steamship Company, upon condition that the
vessel only should be used in commercial traffic. By this
arrangement it was prevented that the ship was altogether
lost for the Swedish Company. Certainly, the Japanese would
not have hesitated to use the vessel in any case but by the
charter agreement they were at least bound to pay for its
use.
Charter hire was paid until September 9, 1944.
A brief history of the seizure of the MIRAMAR and its
charter to the Japanese Taikoku Steamship Company is here-
with attached.
According to information given to the Swedish Legation
in Tokyo by the American authorities in Japan the above
mentioned Japanese shipping company was controlled by the
Japanese government. As, furthermore, the MIRAMAR had been
utilized by the Japanese navy beforethe charter arrangement
was made it has been indicated to the Swedish Legation in
Tokyo that the vessel may be liable to seizure as a Japanese
vessel.
It has been indicated to the Swedish Legation in Tokyo
that the case will be referred to the State Department and the
Navy Department in Washington for consideretion. The Swedish
Legation has, therefore, been instructed by the Swedish
l'inistry for Foreign Affairs to recall the abovementioned
circumstances under which the 1RAl AR was seized by the
Japanese in violation of the Swedish flag and existing rights
of navigation.
The later charter arrangement was the only
course open to the Swedish Authorities for avoiding the
confiscation of the vessel, which was already then under
Jepanese control.
In view thereof it is sincerely hoped that
the U.S. Authorities will see their way clear now to release
the MI ANAR to the Swedish owners.
Washington, D.C., December 18, 1945.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl.
LEGATION OF SWEDEN
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
Brief History of Seizure and Charter of S/S Miramar.
End of 1940
Ship chartered by M. Nemazee, Hongkong.
2.26.41
Ship delivered to M. Nemazee, Hongkong.
Nov. 1941
Charter contrect extended to Febr. 26th 1942.
ab. 11.26.41
Ship left Hongkong for Fengkok.
12.7.41
Ship left Pengkok with cargo of rice and charcoal.
12.9.41
Ship anchored et Fulo ianjang, French Indochina.
Ordered b: Jananese officer to proceed to Saigon,
left for Seigon.
12.11.41
Ship anchored at Cap St. James. Left and anchored
at iha-Re in the Saigon-river.
12.12.41
Ceptain informed by Com ander 1shida, Japanese Navy,
that ship could not proceed to Macao. Copy of manifest
handed to Cor mander Ishida.
ab. 12.19.41
Captain crdered to briny ship's docurents to head-
quarters of Jan. Mavy. Docunents retained.
12.30.41
Captain notified thet Jap. Yavy hed decided to con-
fircate ship and c rgo. Jap. flag hoisted. Ship
officers of Swedish Hationeiity locked up in their
cabins. Captain esked assistence of French authorities.
Telegran dispatched to owners of ship and to Swedish
Covernment.
12.31.41
Ship hauled to buoy o. 7. Ship's officers released
but not allowed to leave ship.
1.2.42
Ship hauled to pier No. 1 end unloading of rice cargo
started by Jap. marines.
1.4.42
Unloading stop ed end ship hauled to buoy No. 7.
Three officers allowed to stay on shore four hours.
1.7.42
Captein ordered to vske ship clear for deperture on
Jan. th. Cfficers excet Captain to remain on board
during voyage. Captain to remain on shore as hostage.
1.8.42
Negotiations between French Authorities and the Swedish
Consul in Saigon on one side and the Jap. Naval Authorities
on the other side to have ship's officers freed. No result.
1.9.42
General cargo belonging to the French Navy loaded. Captain
refused permission to go with ship.
1.10.42
Ship left Saigon for Pulo Condore under command of Jap.
Naval officer. Jap. Naval Authorities notified in writing
that the rice cargo which the ship carried when confiscated
belonged to the Portuguese Government in Macao.
1.11.42
Ship arrived at Pulo Condore.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
F
1.12.42
Ship left Pulo Condore.
1.13.42
Ship anchored off Cap St Jacques.
1.14.42
Ship proceed to Saigon. Officers prohibited to leave
the ship. Swedish Minister in Tokyo delivered protest
in writing to Jap. Foreign Minister.
1.17.42
Officers allowed ashore.
1.22.42
Rest of original cargo of rice discharged.
1.24.42
Ship to leave again anc new protest handed to Jap. Naval
Authorities demanding that ship's officers should not be
forced to sail.
1.25.42
Discharged original cargo of charcoal. Loaded general cargo.
1.26.42
Received order to prepare for departure. henewed protests
by the Swedish Consul in Seigon and recuest that ship's
officers should be released. Consul informed officers
considered as enemies and ship as enemy ship. Captain
considered as hostege but could choose between remaining
ashore or depart with ship.
1.27.42
Ship departed. Officers sent ashore at Cap St. Jacques by
the Jap. Comnander on board and told they were free.
2.16.42
Ship reported left Saigon.
2.20.42
Second protest in writing to the Minister of Foreign
Affairs by the Swedish Minister in Tokyo.
5.4.42
Captain notified thet he within short had to go to Tokyo
for Prize court proceedings.
ab.6.16.42
Ship left Saigon for Jap. port.
6.29.42
Ship arrived et Yobe with Cantain Svensson on board.
8.25.42
Ship still in Kobe and Captain Svensson virtually a
prisoner on board.
9.23.42
Ceptain allowed to leave ship and proceed to Tokyo as
e result of long drawn out negotietions between Swedish
Minister and Jap. Foreign Office.
11.1.42
Bare boat charter contract signed. Negotiations designed
to escape Prize court proceedings which unavoidably would
heve ended in confiscation were carried on during Septem-
ber end October between the Swedish Minister in Tokyo and
the Jep. Foreign  inistry with the ebove mentioned result.
12.11.42
Ship's officers left Saigon for Shanghai.
11.18.44
Last payment of charter hire covering the period ending 12
noon Sept. 9th 1944.
Tokyo, Nov. 19th 1945.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.88)
MEMORANDUM
In reply to the Swedish Legation's memorandum of
December 19, 1945, requesting the release of the Swedish
SS Miramar, now in Japan under charter to the Japanese
Taikoku Steamship Company, the Department wishes to advise
that the status of this vessel is being investigated, and
that upon receipt of the requested information it will
894.85/12-1845
advise the Legation further.
Department of State,
C
Washington,
is
1940
7
m
894.85/12-1845
NSm.
894/85/127
DCR - NE Unit
SD: WEMasterson:rgf
1/21/46
n2
/ORR
JAN 22 1946P.M
Dist.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
SD
CABLE ADDRESS
"USNAVIGA"
TELEPHONE
ALECODES
UNITED STATES NAVIGATION COMPANY
DC/R
INCORPORATED
WHITEHALL BUILDING
NEW YORk 4, N.Y.
JOHN TILNEY CARPENTER
December 26, 1945
GENERAL COUNSEL
SHIPPING DIVISION
Mr. J. E. Saugstad
Director, Shipping Division
2145
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Saugstad:
A Norwegian friend of ours is anxious to obtain
information about certain Japanese whaling ships which he desires
to purchase with, as I understand, a substantial portion of
American capital. He believes that some of them have been de-
stroyed but that one or more may be in hiding in Japanese ports,
and our Navy presumably knows their whereabouts and condition.
894.8
I do not know whether the subject of this inquiry
lies in your Department, but I would very much appreciate it if
you would be good enough to let me know promptly whether it does,
and how to obtain exact information.
5
With best regards,
1
Sincerely yours,
2645
Jh Tilney Carpenter
JTC/m
Enclosures
C
894.85/12-2645
C
u16

=== Page 27 === (confidence 1.00)
Our Norwegian friend formerly owned the first
whaling ship on the attached list which the Japanese later
acquired and duplicated in larger vessels. Our friend is
extremely anxious to acquire one or two of these vessels for
a Norwegian whaling enterprise, in which he is thoroughly
experienced. He believes that a number of them have been
lost, but one or more are extant and would like to get the
following information:
1. Which vessels, if any, are still in existence?
2. Where are they located?
3. Approximately, what is their condition?
4. Does the United States have jurisdiction over
their disposition?
5. If so, what U. S. Department should be consulted
for purchase?

=== Page 28 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPAN
TONNAGE
BUILT
NO. OF
NAME
D.W.
GROSS
YEAR
BY
CATCHERS
1. "TONAN MARU"
13,000
9,839
1906
Denny Bros.
5
2. "TONAN MARU II" 24,000
18,000
Osaka Iron Works Ltd.
8
8. "TONAN
MARU III"
25,000
19,625
1935
Osaka Iron Works Ltd.
8
4. "NISSHIN
MARU"
22,190
16,764
1936
Kawasaki Dockyard Co.Ltd.
9
5. "NISSHIN
MARU II"
21,990
16,760
1937
Kawasaki Dockyard Co.Ltd.
10
6. "KYOKUYO
MARU"
22,000
17,000
1938
Kawasaki Dockyard Co.Ltd.
9
TOTAL
128,180
97,988
49
Official information as to the fate of any of these ships is
not available.
It is nown, however, that the Norwegian Shipping and
"rade Mission, the Norwegian Government department controlling all the
hipping of that country, is basing its future programme on the assumption
at there is nothing left of the Japanese whaling fleet.
The "Tonan Maru" was formerly Norwegian, sailing under the
le of "Antarctic".

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
JAN 16 1946
CABLE ADDRESS
"USNAVIGA"
ALL CODES
UNITED STATES NAVIGATION COMPANY
INCORPORATED
WHITEHALL BUILDING
NEW YORK 4, N.Y.
JOHN TILNEY CARPENTER
SHIPPING DIVISION
Reply 1/8/40
Mr. J. E. Saugstad
Director, Shipping Division
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Saugstad:
I wonder if you have had an opportunity to
consider my letter of December 26th concerning certain
Japanese whaling ships which may be under our Government's
jurisdiction. Our friend is leaving New York early next
week and I would appreciate it very much indeed if you
would kindly let me know whether the subject of the inquiry
894.85/1-446
lies in your Department, or how I could go about obtaining
the desired information.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
gohTilney Car penthy
JTC/m
CS
/E
AN71946
894.85/1-446

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
JAN161946
In reply to SD
My dear Mr. Carpenter:
894.85/1-446
I have your inquiries of December 26, 1945 and
January 4, 1946 regarding Japanese whaling factories.
To the best of our knowledge, four of the ves-
sels,listed on the enclosure to your letter of Decem-
ber 26, have been sunk during the war and we have no
information regarding the other two.
The permanent disposition of the remaining
Japanese merchant vessels which have survived the war
has not as yet been agreed upon.
Sincerely yours,
J. E. Saugstad
Chief
Shipping Division
Mr. John Tilney Carpenter
Vice President and General Counsel,
894.85
United States Navigation Company,
Whitehall Building,
New York 4, New York.
SD:HLDeimel,Jr:hh
19/462
1-446
JAN 15 1946P.M.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl.
LEGATION OF SWEDEN
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
No. 21
Mem or an d um.
With reference to the memorandum (No. 867) of the
xx
1814 85/1
SD-TR
Swedish Leg tion, dated December 18th, 1945, regarding JA
Jr
the seizure by the Japanese authorities of the Swedish
ves: el S/S iR R there are herewith enclosed the texts
of the protests delivered by the Svedish Linister in
Tokyo to the Japenese  inister for Foreign Affairs on
January 14th, 1942, and February 20th, 1942, respectively.
1t will Le seen from these protests that if the
Japanese authorities have utilized the S/s .InAiAh for
894.
any unneutral service beiore the charter agreement it
has been done under the strongest objection from the
Swedish Government and without meens ror the Swedish
Government to prevent it.
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 1 1946
Washinaton, D.C., Janurry 11, 1946.
SHIPPING DIVISION
VER
AN151346
CS/D
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TRC
AND COMMUNICATIONS
POLICY
FEB 6
OCR
 Unt
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 2
1191

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo, January 14th, 1942.
Monsieur le Ministre,
I have the honour to inform Your Excellency of the follo
ing events.
On the 9th instant I received a telegraphic report from
Saigon to the effect that a Swedish steamship s/s "Miramar" had
been seized in that port and ordered to leave for unknown desti
nation, the Swedish officers being forced to remain on board an
to follow the ship. As this action for obvious reasons must ha
been committed by Japanese military forces in connection with ti
arfare in the South Pacific, I imrediately celled on the Forei
Vice-! inister to lodge a complaint and to ask for the release of
the vessel.
Under the days which followed a few more telegraphic repor
reached me, confirming the seizure by the Japanese and making it
possible to reconstilute the occurences in detail and to judge
true import of this very regrettable incident.
The s/s "Liramar" belonging to the Reuter Steamship Com-
p: ny in tockholm was chartered until the end of February 1942 by
the Persian firm Menazee. 1t was actually en route from Bangkok
to Lacao with a crago consisting only of rice. The ship celled
at Saigon for instructions and was then seized by the Imperial
Japanese Naval Authorities. ost of the cargo was ordered to be
discherged at Saigon and the ship was com anded by the Japanese
Naval Authorities to sail on January 1gth for unknown destination
with a new cargo taken in. The officers of s/s "Miramar" of whon
five were "edish and one Norwegian were forced to remain on duty
The Svedish captain, however, was not admitted on board.
Fron the facts which have just been related it can be con-
cluded that there did not exist any justified reason for the
seizure of the ship. The action taken by the Imperial Naval Au-
thorities therefore without any doubt constitutes a violation of
the neutrality of the Swedish flag, as well as a violation of pri
vate £wedish property and the right of navigation. It seems that
His Excellency
Monsieur Shigenori Togo,

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the action also implied a measure of constraint upon the
liberty of the officers belonging to the ship.
Acting upon instructions thet I have received from
Government I am obliged to protest to the Imperial Governm
against the above-related action of the Japanese Naval Aut
At the same time I wish to ask Your Excellency to be good
to take the necessary steps in order to have the ship in qu
s/s "Miramer", released without delay. I hope Your Excelle
will kindly give me ? reply to my request at the earliest
date.
I avail myself of this opportunity, Monsieur le Minis
to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest co
ration.
(sgd) W. Bagge

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Monsieur le Ministre,
Referring to my note of Januaryl4th in which acoo
instructions from my Government I protested against the
the Japanese naval authorities in Saigon of the Swedish sh
"Miramar", I have the honour to state that to my regret You
Excellency have not favoured me with a reply, nor have I re
any communication as to a change in the situation of the sh
In the meantime I have been informed, however, that
rice-cergo carried by s/s "Miramar" at the time of seizure
destined to the Portuguese Government in Macao who were the
and importers of the cargo which has been fully unloaded at
It appears that the ship rade two trips to unknown destinati
with the Swedish ofricers retained on board but that thereaf
these officers were put ashore and the ship completely taken
by the Japanese. The present whereabouts of this Swedish st
is unknown to me.
From the side of the ! inistry for Foreign Affairs it h
admitted without any kind of explanation that s/s "Miramar"
been utilized by the Japanese authorities.
It is evident that this state of affairs is most unsati
factory from Swecish point of view and the apparent indifferen
the Imperiel Government to the Swedish protest seems to me mo
regrettable. Events of this kind without any visible effort
put things right or at least without any positive result cann
but badly affect the feelings of the Swedish Government.
At the same time as according to my duty and my instruc
I repeat my protest against the act of violence perpetrated b
naval authorities I heg to ask Your Excellency in the name of
friendly relations happily existing between Sweden and Japan
intervene in this matter and cause the Imperial naval authori
to release the ship without further delay and restore it to
Swedish owners.
I avail myself of this opportunity, Monsieur le Ministr
to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest cons
ration.
(sgd) W. Bagge
His Excellency

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
5307
FREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLZARSY THE
Colbect
CLASSIFICATION  THE
Depa tment of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
RESTRICTED
Washington
Rishrictel
Charge to
AMEMBASSY
3 P
MOSCOW (USSR)
Deliver following message to FONOFF amending first paragraph
to include appropriate reference to previous correspondence:
QUOTE In reference to the question of the disposal of the
894.85/1
Japanese fleet, it has been agreed that all Japanese submarines
and all Japanese como ant vessels larger than destroyers should
be destroyed but that destroyers and surface combatant vessels
of lesser tonnage should be divided equally between the UK, the
1
USSR, China, and the US.
2
346
Many of these vessels are at present being used for repatria-
tion work, for minesweeping, and for other tasks connected with
the implementation of the Japanese surrender, and their release
from these missions prior to their completion would necessitat
the diversion of Allied shipping. It is therefore the desire of
the Us Govt to receive the agreement of your govt to the following
procedure in regard to the disposal of destroyers and surface
894.
combatant vessels of lesser tonnage of the Japanese fleet:
C
When the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
S
8
N
5
determines that the destroyers and surface combatant
C
vessels of lesser tonnage of the Japanese fleet are no
2
6

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Col
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Depariment:
RESTRICTED
Washington
Charge to
-2-
longer needed for repatriation work, for minesweeping, or
for any other task connected with the implementation of
the Japanese surrender, he will so inform the Us Govt,
and the Us Govt will then arrange with the interested
govts for an equal division of these vessels between the
UK, the USSR, China, and the US. UNQUOTE
Acheron
FE:JKPenfiOld:hst
EE
JA
1-22-46
1

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
May 24, 1946
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
894.85/5-1446
In accordance with 1nstructions of May 14, 1946
from the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee there
are enolosed, for the information of the Far Eastern
Commission, a statement of United States policy and a
directive based thereon to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers regarding arrangements for release to
claimant nations of former Allied vesaels captured by
Japan.
594.05/5.14
CS/HS
Enclosures:
1.
Statement of U.S. policy.
2.
Copy No. 1 (certified), Interim
Direotive to Supreme Commander
Confidential Fn
for the Allied Powers, Serial
No. 44.
894.85
ini
chD
JA:ALDunning:mls
5-24-46
5
D

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
ENCLOSURE
STATEMENT OF U.S. POLIOY
A. The control of SCAP over former Allied vessels
recaptured from the Japanese should be extended to
authority to use former Allied war and other publle
vessels and miscellaneous water-borne craft of all types.
b. SCAf should be authorized to release all former
Allied war or other public vessels regardless of size
(except public merchant vessels) and all former Allied
water-borne craft of any type of less than 500 gross
tons direot to olaimant nations when these vessels
are no longer needed by SCAP for any task conneoted
with the implementation of the Japanese surrender.
c. The CSAB should be designated as SCAP's agent
for the purpose of disposing of former Allied publio
merchant or privately o'ned merchant vessels and other
privately owned water-borne craft of all types of 500
gross tons and over.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
JK
liee
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4286
14 May 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: Arrangements for Release to Claimant Nations
of Former Allied Vessels Captured by Japan.
References:
a.
SWNCC 227/8
b.
SWN-4084
By informal action on 28 March 1946 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee approved SWNcC 227/8, a copy of which
854.85/5-1446
is enclosed.
The memorandum in Appendix "C", together vith the Annex
to Appendix "C", was forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff
on 28 March 1946.
On 13 May 1946 the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee
was advised that the Joint Chiefs of Staff concurred in the
message (Annex to Appendix "C") and dispatched it to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Povers.
It is requested that the Conclusions in paragraph 4 and
the message in the Annex to Appendix "C" be forwarded by the
Department of State to the members of the Far Eastern Com-
mission.
For the State-War-Nev
Seordinating Committee:
MAY 76 1946
edn
WIN4327
ARIMENT OF STATE
2722)
JOHN A. HILLDRING,
State Department Member
Encl.
Cpy No. 74, SWNCC 227/8
894.85
OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
1946
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
/5-1446
271946
SECRET

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
74
SECRET
COPY NO.
28 March 1946
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION ON SWNCC 227/8
ARRANGEMENTS FOR RELEASE TO CLAIMANT NATIONS
OF
FORMER ALLIED VESSELS CAPTURED BY JAPAN
References:
a.
SWNCC 227/3
b.
SWINCC 227/5/D
0.
SWNCC 227/8
Note by the Secretaries
By informal action on 28 March 1946 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee approved SWNCC.227/8.
894.85
ALEXANDER D. REID
B. L. AUSTIN
HAROLD W. MOSELEY
-1446
Scoretariat

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
-Col wnp Stulee
Roon 4181
SECRET
COPY NO.
BWNCC 227/8
21 March 1946
Pages 33 - 40, 1nc1.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COIIITTEE
ARRANGEMENTS FOR RELEASE TO CLAILANT NATIONS OF
FORMER ALLIED VESSELS CAPTURED BY JAPAN
References:
a. SWNCC 227/3
D. SWNCC 227/5/D
Note by the Secretaries
1. The enclosure, a report by the State-War-Navy Coordinat-
ing Subcommittee for the Far East, is circulated for consicera-
tion by the Committee.
2. Members of the War Shipping Administration were con-
sulted in the preparation of this report.
LEXANDER D. REID
B. L. AUSTIN
HAROLD W. HOSELEY
Secretariat

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ENCLOSURE
ARRANGEMENTS FOR RELEASE TO CLAIMANT NATIONS OF
FORMER ALLIED VESSELS CAPTUHED BY JAPAN
Report by the
State-War-Navy Coordinating Subcommittee for the Fer East
THE PROBLEM
1. To consider draft directives to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers regarding arrangements for the release
to claimant nations of former Allied vessels captured by the
Japanese.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONCLUSIONS
4.
It is concluded that!
a. The control of SCAP over former Allied vessels
recaptured from the Japanese should be extended to author-
ity to use former Allied war and other public vessels and
miscellaneous water-borne craft of all types.
b. SCAP should be authorized to release all former
Allied war or other public vessels regardless of size
(except public merchant vessels) and all former Allied
water-borne craft of any type of less than 500 gross tons
direct to claimant nations when these vessels are no
longer needed by SCAP for any task connected with the
implementation of the Japanese surrender.
c. The CSAB should be designated as SCAP's agent for
the purpose of disposing of former Allied public merohant
or privately owned merchant vessels and other privately
owned water-borne craft of all types of 500 gross tons
and over.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
B E C R E T
RECOMENDATIONS
It is recommended that:
a. SWNCC approve the conclusions in paragraph 4 above.
b. The memorandum in Appendix "C" (together with the
Annex to Appendix "C") be forwarded to the JCS.
c. Upon dispatch of the directive in the Annex to
appendix "C" to SCAP, the JCS notify the CSAB of its
designation as SCAP's agent for the purpose of disposing
of former Allied public merchant or privately owned mer-
chant vessels and other privately owned water-borne oraft
of all types of 5o0 gross tons and over.
d. Upon notification by the JCS that the direotive
in the Annex to Appendix "C" has been dispatched to SOAP,
the Conclusions in paragraph 4 and the message in the
Annex to Appendix "C" be forwarded by the Department of
State to the members of the Far Eastern Commission.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
SEC RET
APPENDIX "A"
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1. CCS 928/1 provided that SCAP should control all ship-
ping recovered from the Japanese as a matter of military ex-
pediency, in the absence of complete information about shipning
recovered from the Japanese and until the situation had cleared.
2. JCS 1500/3 states:
"a. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers should
direct the Japanese Government to requisition the title of
all Japanese merchant vessels which it is desired be ap-
propriated and then transfer the requisitioned interest
to the Supreme Commander. The Supreme Commander is to
receive and hold such interest on behalf of the United
Nations. This transfer of interest is to be regarded as
being without prejudice to agreements ultimately to be
made among the Allied Governments concerned as to disposi-
tion of title to any such vessels.
"b. The treaty of peace should contain an appropriate
provision ratifying this transfer of interest.
"c. Prize proceedings should be initiated in particular
cases when difficulty or uncertain ownership appears."
3. SWNCC 227/3, Request from Chinese for Return of Dredger
Chien Sho and Light Cruiser Yat Sen: Interim Procedures for
Restitution of Identifiable Looted Property, presently before
the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their comment, provides interim
procedures for restitution of identifiable looted property found
within Japan (with the exception of gold and other precious
metals, tin, precious gems, foreign exchange and other securi-
ties, and ships and water-borne craft of all kinds).
4. In SWNCC 227/5/D the JCS have requested the State,
War and Navy Departments' approval of directives to SCAP on the
subject.
5. Informal agreement was reached on January 15, 1946,
between the War Shipping Administration and the British Ministry
of War Transport to the designation of CsAB as the ageney of
SCAP for the disposal of Allied public merchant or privately
owned merchant vessels

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
APPENDIX "A"
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1. CCS 928/1 provided that SCAP should control all ship
ping recovered from the Japanese as a matter of military ex
pediency, in the absence of complete information about shipning
recovered from the Japanese and until the situation had cleared.
2. JCS 1500/3 states:
"a. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers should
direct the Japanese Government to requisition the title of
all Japanese merchant vessels which it is desired be ap-
propriated and then transfer the requisitioned interest
to the Supreme Commander. The Supreme Commander is to
receive and hold such interest on behalf of the United
Nations. This transfer of interest is to be regarded as
being without prejudice to agreements ultimately to be
made among the Allied Governnents concerned as to disposi-
tion of title to any such vessels.
"b. The treaty of peace should contain an appropriate
provision ratifying this transfer of interest.
"c. Prize proceedings should be initiated in particular
cases when difficulty or uncertain ownership appears."
3. SWNCC 227/3, Request from Chinese for Return of Dredger
Chien Sho and Light Cruiser Yat Sen: Interim Procedures for
Restitution of Identifiable Looted Property, presently before
the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their comment, provides interim
procedures for restitution of identifiable looted property found
within Japan (with the exception of gold and other precious
metals, tin, precious gems, foreign exchange and other securi-
ties, and ships and water-borne craft of all kinds).
4. In SWNCC 227/5/D the JCS have requested the State,
War and Navy Departments' approval of directives to SCAP on the
subject.
5. Informal agreement was reached on January 15, 1946,
between the War Shipping Administration and the British Ministry
of War Transport to the designat1on of CSAB as the agency of
SCAP for the disposal of Allied public merchant or privately
owned merchant vessels and other privately owned water-borne
craft of all types of 500 gross tons and over.
SWNCC 227/8
35-
Appendix "A"

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
B E C R ET
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSSION
1. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers should have
the full use of all former Allied vessels recaptured from Japan
for as long as he deems it necessary to accomplish the objeo-
tives of the occupation, particularly in effecting repatriation
of Japanese Armed Forces and civilians overseas. It is con-
sidered, however, that there is need for some provision, by
which SCAP may release former Allied vessels after he dètermines
that he has no need for such vessels, without prejudice to final
title and disposition pending governmental agreements on those
matters.
2.
Where the title of vessels held by SCAP is aoparent,
the most expeditious method of disposal would be direct release
by SCAP, when the military situation permits, to the claimant
nation. However, the legal aspects of the transfer of former
Allied public merchant or privately owned merchant vessels or
other privately owned water-borne craft of all types of 500
gross tons and over would be complicated and would be an.undesir-
able burden to place on SCAP. In view of the fact that the
CSAB is a thoroughly competent agent to carry out negotiations
necessary for the disposal of such vessels and the execution
of agreements to protect the Allied Powers from future claims
by other nations, it is considered that the CSAB is the desir-
able agent to act for SCAP in these matters. The obvious dis-
advantage to the designation of the CSAB as the agent of SCAP
in the disposal of such vessels is the fact that CSAB is not
an agency of all the Allied Powers. However, since shipping
matters of general interest to the Allied Powers during the
war were handled by CSAB, it is not considered that serious
objection will be made by other nations to this designation.
3. In view of the fact that informal

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
SEORET
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSSION
1. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers should
the full use of all former Allied vessels recaptured from 
for as long as he deems it neoessary to accomplish the objeo
tives of the occupation, particularly in effecting repatriation
of Japanese Armed Forces and civilians overseas. It is con-
sidered, however, that there is need for some provision, by
which SCAP may release former Allied vessels after he dètermines
that he has no need for such vessels, without prejudice to final
title and disposition pending governmental agreements on thede
matters.
2.
Where the title of vessels held by SCAP is apparent,
the most expeditious method of disposal would be direct release
by SCAP, when the military situation permits, to the claimant
nation. However, the legal aspects of the transfer of former
Allied public merchant or privately owned merchant vessels or
other privately owned water-borne craft of all types of 5o0
gross tons and over would be complicated and would be an.undesir-
able burden to place on SCAP. In view of the fact that the
CSAB is a thoroughly competent agent to carry out negotiations
necessary for the disposal of such vessels and the execution
of agreements to protect the Allied Powers from future claims
by other nations, it is considered that the CSAB is the desir-
able agent to act for SCAP in these matters. The obvious dis-
advantage to the designation of the CSAB as the agent of SCAP
in the disposal of such vessels is the fact that CSAB is not
an agency of all the Allied Powers. However, since shipping
matters of general interest to the Allied Powers during the
war were handled by CSAB, it is not considered that serious
objection will be made by other nations to this designation.
3. In view of the fact that informal agreement has already
been reached between the WSA and the British Ministry of War
SWNCC 227/8
- 36 -
Append1x "B"

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
Transport to the designation of the CSAB as the ageney or
for the disposal of Allied public merohant or privately ownied
merchant vessels and other privately owned water-borne crart
of all types of 500 gross tons and over, it is not considered
that any negotiations by the Department of State with the
Government of Great Britain are necessary.
4. Although the draft directives to SCAP proposed by the
JCS in Appendices "A" and "B" of SWNCC 227/5/D do not inolude
miscellaneous water-borne craft of all types, it would seem
desirable to make the directive include all types of water
borne craft.
5. Privately owned water-borne craft of all types of less
than 5oo gross tons, which will include river and some coastal
craft (barges, tugs, dredgers, yachts, ferry boats, launches,
etc.,) should be returned by SCAP direct to claimant nations
when no longer needed by him. The character of craft of this
type and size is such that it is believed more practical to
handle same through the military channels established in the
area.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
SE C RET
APPENDIX "C"
MEMORANDUM FOR THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF:
Subject:
Arrangements for Release to Claimant Nations
of Former Allied Vessels Captured by Japan.
1. Reference J.C.S. memorandum dated 15 January 1946 (SM-4726)
the State, War and Navy Departments concur in the draft direotive
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, subject to the
amendments indicated in the Annex.
2. It is considered that the agreement reached between the
War Shipping Administration and the British Ministry of War Trans-
port provides adequate authority for the designation of the CSAB
as the agency of the Supreme Commander to dispose of former Allied
public merchant or privately owned merchant vessels and other
privately owned water-borne craft of all types of 5o0 gross tons
and over. Therefore the supplementary information dispatch to
SCAP is not required.
3. The State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee requests that
the Joint Chiefs of Staff concur in the revised directive to SCAP
and dispatch same to SCAP and that the Secretary, SWNCC, be in-
formed when the revised directive has been approved and dispatched
to SCAP in order that the Secretary of State may advise the nations
represented on the Far Eastern Commission.
4. Upon dispatch of the revised directive to SCAP, it is
further requested that the JCS notify the CSAB of its designation
as SCAP's agent for the purpose of disposing of former Allied
public merchant or privately owned merchant vessels and other
privately owned water-borne craft of all types of 5oo gross tons
and over.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
BECRET
ANNEX TO APPENDIX "C"
DRAFT MESSAGE TO THE SUPREME CO MANDER FOR THE ALLIED POM
Employment and disposition of former Allied ships and
water-borne craft of all types recaptured from the Japanese
L.
is subject.
Su tollew Peiers
The State, War and Navy Departments have approved the
policy that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers (SCAP)
shall utilize fully all former allied ships and water-borne
craft of all types recaptured from Japan for as long as SCaP
may deem it necessary for the discharge of his responsibilities
with regard to repatriation of Japanese nationals and the main-
tenance of a minimum Japenese economy. Any Allied agreements
on these matters will be negotiated on this basis.
You will note that this policy extends the principles or
WaR 64268 of 14 September 1945 to provide that war and other
public vessels and miscellaneous water-borne craft of all types
as well as merchant vessels may be employed by SCP on Japanese
movements.
Relative to the disposition of such ships and craft when
SCAP no longer deems them necessary, you are now authorized to
release any former Allied war or other public vessel regardless
of size (except a public merchant vessel) and all former llicd
water-borne craft of any type of less than 5o0 gross tons
direct to claimant nation where title to vessel is apparent,
provided that an agreement with such nation on'release of
vessel or craft is executed which will provide adequate proteo-
tion to SCAP and the Allied Powers from any liability that may
arise out of the disposition or use of such vessels or oraft.
With respect to release of former Allied public merchant
or privately owned merchant vessels of 5oo gross tons and over.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ANNEX TO APPENDIX "C"
DRAFT TESSAGE TO
THE SUPREME CO.MANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Employment and disposition of former Allied ships and
water-borne craft of all types recaptured from the Japanese
1.
is subject.
3
The State, War and Navy Departments have approved the
policy that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers (SCAP)
shall utilize fully all former allied ships and water-borne
craft of all types recaptured from Japan for as long as SCAP
may deem it necessary for the discharge of his responsibilities
with regard to repatriation of Japanese nationals and the main-
tenance of a minimum Japenese economy.
Any Allied agreements
on these matters will be negotiated on
this basis.
You will note that this policy extends the principles or
WaR 64268 of 14 September 1945,
to provide that war and other
public vessels and miscellaneous water-borne craft of all types
as well as merchant vessels may be employed by SC on Japenese
movements.
Relative to the disposition of such ships and craft when
SCAP
no longer deems them necessary, you ere now authorized to
release any former Allied war or other public vessel regordless
of size (excest a public merchant vessel) and all former llia
water-borne craft of any type of less than 500 gross tons
direct to claimant nation vhere title to vessel is apparent,
provided that an agreement with such nation on release of
vessel or
craft is executed which will provide adeguate protec-
tion to SCAP and the Allied Powers from any liability that may
arise out of
the disposition or use of
such vessels or craft.
With respect to release of former Allied ublic merchant
or privately owned merchant vessels of
500 gross tons and over

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R ET
Transport to the designation of the Combined Shipping Adjust-
ment Board as the agency of SCAp to dispose of such vessels
including action to protect the interests of SCAP and the
Allied Powers from any liabilities arising out of the disposi-
tion or use of such vessels.
The State Department will inform the nations who are
members of the Far Eastern Commission contents of this message.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 1.00)
COPY NO.
SECRET
26 March 1946
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
CORRIGENDUM
TO
SWNCC 227/8
ARRANGEMENTS FOR RELEASE TO CLAIMANT NATIONS OF
FORMER
ALLIED VESSELS
CAPTURED
BY
JAPAN
Note by the Secretaries
Holders of SWNCC 227/8 are requested to substitute the at-
FW.
tached revised page 38 for the one contained therein and destroy
the later by burning.
894.8
ALEXANDER D. REID
B. L. AUSTIN
HAROLD W. MOSELEY
Secretariat

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
4.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: August 12, 1946
suBJEcT: Division of Japanese Fleet.
PARTiciPAnTs: Mr. Graves, Counselor of British Embassy
Mr. Vincent - FE
Mr. Emmerson - JA
894.8
COPIES TO:
Mr. Martin - JK
35/8
1
2
246
1-1493
Mr. Graves left an aide-mémoire on the subject of the
division of the Japanese fleet. He stated that his Government
was seeking assurance that the United States did not propose
to apply the same principle of four-way division to both the
merchant and naval fleets. With reference to division of the
merchant fleet he stated that it was the position of his
CS/A
Government that the Norwegian Government, as well as such
countries as Denmark, Greece, Yugoslavia and Egypt, should be
entitled to a share of the Japanese merchant fleet. He had
been instructed to sound out the Department as to whether
we intended to limit the division of the merchant fleet to
countries which are members of the Far Eastern Commission.
Mr. Graves was assured that the United States Government
regarded the division of the Japanese naval and merchant fleets
as two distinct problems. While we were committed to a division
8
of the remaining combatant vessels of destroyer or lesser
6
tonnage, we have taken the position that division of the
merchant fleet depends upon decisions to be made by the Far
S
Eastern Commission on the subject of reparations and the future
9
economy of Japan. Mr. Vincent stated that we were therefore
agreed with the British position that the disposal of the
SEP-91946
merchant and fishing fleets should be undertaken by the Far
Eastern Commission.
1246
Mr. Graves
3

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Mr. Graves explained that his Government was of the
opinion that since losses in the Far Eastern war had been
taken into consideration in conneotion with the division
of the German fleet, that losses in the European war should
affect the final decision with regard to the Japanese merchant
fleet. The British Government had accepted this principle
at the request of the American Government and as a consequence
its share of German vessels was less than it would have been
otherwise. It was therefore felt that in settling claims
for Japanese ships one could not separate losses incurred
in Europe and in the Far East.
Mr. Vincent stated that it was his impression that once
the claims of the nations suffering the most losses had been
satisfied there would be relatively little to divide among such
powers as Greece or Egypt. Nevertheless, 1t seems a rational
assumption that nations not belonging to the Far Eastern Com-
mission would not be excluded from presenting claims. He
said that we would study this matter and would be able to
give him our views on another occasion.
JA:JKEnmerson:mls

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
6
Haudled to
Hrave.
by
8-12-46.
Ref: 500/19/46
Dc/
AIDE
MELIOIRE
In the State Department's Aide Memoire of the 30th
January it was stated that:
"With reference to the Japanese merchant and fish-
ing fleets, it is the view of the United States Govern-
ment that units of these fleets should be disposed of
X1
in accordence with dccisions of an Allied reparations
740.0011.
com ission operatir: under seneral policies laid down
by the Far mastern Com iscion. It is assumed that this
cuestion will e consicered by the Commission in due
894.85/8-1246
course."
2.
His  ajesty's Governient assume the agreement of the
united States Government in the understanding that the system
of allocation envisaged for the Japanese vaval fleet has no
application to the sharin of the Japanese lerchant and Fish-
ing flect and that such disposition is not circumscribed by
the decision on the sharing of the Japanese Naval vessels.
They would however be grateful to learn that the position is
as stated herein.
3.
His ma jesty's Government wish to add that, because of
JANT-
their Merchant Shipping losses and of the role which their
FILRD
Merchant Navy played in the war against Japan, the Norwegian
1+1
Covernment are, in the view of nis lajesty's Government, en-
titled to a greater share of the Japanese ierchant fleet than
are certain members of the Far Lastern Commission. There are
894.85/8.1244
also other countries, notably Denmark, Greece, Yugoslavia and
Egypt, which lost tonnage at Japanese nands. In the light of
the foregoing His majesty's Government draw the conclusion that
the/

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
7
-2-
the united States proposal quoted in paragraph 1 of this Aide
memoire is not intended to limit the division of the Merchant
Fleet to those States which are iembers of the Far Hastern
Conmission tut only to provide a forum where the claims of all
States, whether embers or not, will receive proper consider-
ation.
1.
Subject to confirri tion by the State Department that
the foregoing is also the view of the United States Government,
is ajesty's cov rnment agree in prirciple that the disposal
or the Japanese erchant and Fishing fleets should be under-
takon by an Allied neparations body operating under the general
policies laid down by the Far rastern Commission.
BRITISh PeIBASSY,
WASAT..GTON, D.C.
12th Auust, 1946.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.92)
7+
gtE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
Cetober 25, 1946
DATE:
Frinciples for the Division of the Jepemese Nerehent
SUBJECT:
end Pishing Fleets.
PARTICIPANTS: r. Graves, Counselor of Briti sh Esbasay
r. Vincent - F
r. Porton - JA
r. Esorson - JA
COPIES TO:
JX
2-2
Pr. rave referred ta t e mide-ré oire of August 12, l946
whieh he had left w'th the epart ent and te the epartweat's
reply cf epterber 3, and presented e memorandum on the subjeet
of prineiples for the divisien cf the Jepanese erehant and
fishing fleets.
r. Graver reiterated whst had bren expressed in the
Fubessy's ote of ugust l?, nsrely, that the Britisb Govermment
propesed thet the allocat on of Jepane e  erehent ships should
be mede on the a e basis a that adopted for the division of
"er en chippinge he  rinciple wsed in the case of Germen
ships was an allocat on i prccortion t over-ell losses on
e gross tonnege ber's and regardlens of whether losses oceurred
in the Furopean or the Far  asterr war.
Er. Vincent inquired sha wo ld be the stetistieal result
of e ch en ellonstion in the case of Jepen.  r. Oreves replied
that his Govern ent did not know what divislon would result but
he felt that the ritiah 1ght reoeive ore ships under this
prinoiple than : the Fer astern wer alone were taken into
consideration. e said tha: ly agreeing t. the prineiple of
allocation

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
allocatien on the basis of both wars for the divisien of Germam
shipping, the British had reeeived slightly less than would
otherwise have been the case. Mr. Graves said that the methed
he was suggesting would permit allocation of shipping tonmage
to countries not directly participating in the Far Eastern
war, such as Egypt, Yugoslavia and others.
Mr. Vincent said that he was under the impression that
the agreement in conneetion with the German fleet was taken
without necessarily intending that the same principle should
be applied in the case of the Japanese fleet. He stated that
the British note wonld be referred to the sppropriate divisions
in the tate Tepartment end a reply prepared for the British
Fmbassy.
JA:JKFmmerson:m1s

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
TANDARD FORM NO. 64
uffice of
TO
: FE: Mr. Vincent
FR  
DATE:8-16-46
FROM
: JA: Mr. Emmerson
SUBJECT:
: British Aide-mémoire on the Division of the Japanese
Merchant Fleet.
Mr. Martin of JK 1s preparing an answer to the aide-mémoire
and also a memorandum to be used as a basis for reply to the
question proposed orally by Mr. Graves in his conversation
with you on August 12.
FW 894.85
JK states that the question of claims is under considera-
tion in the FEC. It is our position that any country at war
with Japan or which suffered losses as a result of the war with
Japan should be entitled to make claims for a share of the
merchant fleet.
With respect to the calculations of losses in both the
5
European end Far Eastern wars in connection with the division
of the Japanese merchant fleet, Mr. Martin states that the
8
question is a little more complicated; he states that in agree-
ing to a consideration of both wars in connection with the
division of the German fleet, the United States emphasized
that this was done for, statistical reasons only. However, as
46
stated above, this would be the subject of a memorandum pre-
pared by Mr. Martin.
Fu.894.8
S
R
JA:JKEmmerson:mls
力

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
9
MEEMORANDUN
In reply to the British Embassy's Aide Memoire of
12 August, the views of the United States Governmemt are, as
assumed by the British Govermment, that there is no relatien
894.85/8-1246
between the system of allocation envisaged for the Japansse
aval fleet and that which should apply to those units of
5.120
the Japanese merchant and fishing flest which my be determimed
to be available for reparations.
1
It also contimues to be the view of the United States
Government, as stated in its Aide Memoire of 3 Jammary, that
CS/A
decisions with respect to the disposition of the Japanese
marohant and fishing fleet should be made by an "Allied repara-
tions commission operating under general policies laid down by
the Far Rastern Commission."
It is also the position of the United States Government
894.85
that the distribution of Japanese merohant and fishing vassels
should
DCF F Unj
8-1246
D1.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
10
-2-
should take into account the losses of shipping by Japanese
action of all countries which were engaged in the war with
Japan.
The United States Government is happy to be able to agree
with the British Government on this point and to learm that the
British Government concurs in the view of the United States
Government as contained in Aide Memoire of 30 Jamuary with
respect to machinery by which allocation of Japanese marchant
and fishing vessels available for reparations should be handled.
Department of State,
Wasbington,
September3 10
A-H
JA PE
y:Eartin:jph
3-21-46
sag
Jo√.
HB
AUG 30 1946
SEr
ral.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
Return to Ay Poan 353
11
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
dling.
8mith
JKEDUIR
Memorandum of Conversation
now
DATE: October 25, 1946
SUBJECT:
Principles for the Division of the Japanese Merchant
and Fishing Fleets.
PARTiciPAnTs: Mr. Graves, Counselor of British Embassy
Mr. Vincent - FE
Mr. Borton - JA
Mr. Emmerson - JA
FE
FW 894.85
COPIES TO:
JK
A-H
1-1493
Ir. Graves referred to the aide-mémoire of August 12, 1946
which he had left with the Department and to the Department's
(0
reply of September 3, and presented a memorandum on the subject
1
of principles for the division of the Japanese merchant and
246
fishing fleets.
Mr. Graves reiterated whet had been expressed in the
Embassy's note of August 12, namely, that the British Government
proposed that the allocation of Japanese merchant ships should
be made on the same basis as that adopted for the division of
German shipping. The principle used in the case of German
ships was an allocation in proportion to over-all losses on
a gross tonnage basis and regardless of whether losses occurred
in the European or the Far Eastern war.
Mr. Vincent inquired what would be the statistical result
C
of such an allocation in the case of Japan. Mr. Graves replied
S
FW 894.85/8.1246
that his Government did not know what division would result but
he felt that the British might receive more ships under this
20
principle than if the Far Eastern war alone were taken into
consideration. He said that by agreeing to the principle of
allocation

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
12
-2-
allocation on the basis of both wars for the division of German
shipping, the British had received slightly less than would
otherwise have been the case. Mr. Graves said that the method
he was suggesting would permit allocation of shipping tonnage
to countries not directly participating in the Far Eastern
war, such as Egypt, Yugoslavia and others.
Mr. Vincent said that he was under the impression that
the agreement in connection with the German fleet was taken
without necessarily intending that the same principle should
be applied in the case of the Japanese fleet. He stated that
the British note would be referred to the appropriate divisions
in the State Department and a reply prepared for the British
Embassy.
JA:JKEmmerson:mls

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
8
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
FE - Mr. John Carter Vincent
DATE: August 22, 1946
FROM :
JK - lfr. Martin
心
SUBJECT:
British Views on Reparations from Japanese Ships
In accordance with my telephone conversation with John
Emmerson, I attach for initialing an Aide Hemoire in reply
to that of kugust 12 left by Vr. Graves of the British Embassy
on the subject of disposition of Japanese merchant and fishing
894.8
fleets.
On the further point raised by r. Graves in his conver-
sation with you and recorded in your memorandum of conversation
of August 12, I don't think that the U.S. Government is at
5
present disposed to concur in the British suggestion that in
5/8
settlin: claims for Japanese ships "one could not separate losses
incurred in Europe and in the Far Sast."
2246
ir. Graves' statement that the ritish had concurred in
this position at the request of the american uovernment with
respect to the German fleet and as a result secured fewer German
vessels requires some modification. The final action in this
matter was taken in IARA in Brussells. At the meeting of the
IAkA Assembly on april 1l, at which this decision was made, the
following U.S. reservation was put into the record and unanimous-
ly approved by the Assembly. "The inclusion of tonnage lost
in the Japanese war'ant calculation of Cerman reparation shares
CS/A
of merchant ships is accepted only upon the understanding that
it is without prejudice to and shall not be considered as in
any way affecting the determination of shares of any Japanese
reparations. No distinction between losses in the German and
Japanese wars has been made because of the practical difficul-
ties of accomplishing such a separation." This reservation was
made on instruction fron the Department and drafted in part by
JK. I have the cable reference if you are interested in study-
ing the matter further.
NF Onit
S
E
FILED
U.
-1946
-2206
JK: Martin: jph

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: August 18, 1948
SUBJECT:
Japanese Whaling Operations in the Antaretie.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Gravea - Counselor of the British Tabassy
Mr. Vinoent - FE
Mr. Emmerson - JA
COPIES TO:
JK
IR/Fisheries
1-1498
Kr. Graves referred to reports that Japanese by permission
of SCAP were planning to use for whaling operations in the
Antarctio one converted l0 thousand ton tanker and one 10 thousand
ton ves el to be used as a transport chip. He stated that it is
the opinion of the British Government that the Japanese should
not be allowed to reengege in whaling operations; permitting
them to do this sets a bad precedent. Furthermere, there is
no room for the Japanese in this industry. The British and the
Norwegians are of course vitally interested in whaling opera-
tione in the Antarotic and themselves have not enough ships
at the present time. Finally, the British are apprehensive at
the possibility that whale oil, bedly needed throughout the
world, will go to Japan. Mr. Graves asked fer assuranees that
allocation of such oil would be made by the IEfc (International
Emergenoy Food Counoll).
Mr. Graves was informed that the Department understood that
SCAP was permitting the Japanese to engage in sertain limited
whaling operations prinoipally for the purpose of supplying badly
needed food in Japan. SCAP had given assurances that all such
whaling operations would be carried on in striet complianee with
the terms of the International Conventions for the Regulation
of Whaling. Mr. Vincent said, however, that we would explore the
matter further and would be glad to disoues the question with
Mr. Graves at a later date.
JA:JKEmmerson:mls

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
STADARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: Aug. 14, 1946
TO
JK : Mr. Martin
FROM :
JA : Mr. Borton
SUBJECT :
British representations on Division
of the Japanese fleet and Whaling
Operations inthe Antarotic
It would be appreciated if JK could
give us comments on the questions raised
by Mr. Graves, as described in the attached
memoranda. A memo which could form the
basis of a reply on the question of the
Japanese merohant fleet would be particularly
useful. When this has been received, it
is intended that Mr. Graves will be called
in for a further conversation on the
subject.
JA:JKEnmerson/
IVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 141946

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
Lugust 12, 1046
SUBJECT:
Division of Japanes: Fleet.
PARTICIPANTS:
Hr. Graves, Counseler of British Embessy
Xr. Vincent - PE
Nr. Emmerson - JA
COPIES TO:
Mr. Martin - JK
1-1498
Mr. Graves left en nide-mémoire on the subjeet of the
division of the Japanese fleet. He stated that his Government
was seeking assuranee that the United States did not propose
to apply the same crinolple of four-way divislon to both the
merehent and naval fleets. With referenoe to division of the
merahant fleet he stated that it was the position of his
Government that the Norwegian Government, as well as such
countries as Denmerk, reece, Yugoslavia and Fgypt, should be
entitled to a share of the Japenese merchant fleet. He had
been inatruoted to sound out the Department as to whether
we intended to limit the division of the merehant fleet to
countrles which are members of the Far Eastern Commleslon.
Mr. Gravee wee amaured that the United states Government
regarded the division of the Japanese nevel and merohant fleets
ns two distinot prohleme. while we were committed to a division
of the remaiming combatant vessels of destroyer or lesser
tonnage, we have taken the nosition that divislon of the
merohant fleet depends upon deoisione to be made by the Far
Fastern Commiemlon on the subjeet of reparations and the future
economy of Japan. Hr. Vineent stated thet we were therefore
agreed with the British position that the disposal of the
merehant and fishing fleets should be undertaken by the Far
Eastern Commission.
Mr. Graves

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Mr. Graves explained that his Government wms of the
opinion that sinee losses in the Far Eastern war had been
taken into consideration in conneation with the division
of the Germen fleet, that losses in the Taropean war should
affect the final decision with regard to the Japanese merehamt
fleet. The British Government had accepted this primeiple
at the request of the American Government and as a consequenee
1ts share of German vessels was less than it would have been
otherwise. It was therefore felt that in settling olalms
for Japanese ships one could not separate losses Ineurred
in Europe and in the Par East.
Mr. Vincent stated that 1t was his impression that onee
the claims of the nations suffering the most losses had beem
satisfied there would be relatively little to divide among such
pewers as Greece or Egypt. Nevertheless, it seems a rational
assumption that natione not belonging to the Far Eastern Com-
mission would not be exoluded from presenting olaims. He
said thet we would study this matter and would be able to
give him our views on another ocoasion.
JA:JKEmmerson:mls

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Ref: 500/19/46
AIDE HEMOIRE
In the State Department's Aide Memoire of the 30th
January it was stated that:
"With reference to the Japanese merchant and fish-
ing fleets, it is the view of the United States Govern-
ment that units of these fleets should be disposed of
in accordance with decisions of an Allied reparations
commission operating under general olicies laid dowm
by the Par Eastern Commission. It is assumed that this
question will be considered by the Commission in due
course."
2.
His Majesty's Government assume the agreement of the
United States Government in the understanding that the system
of allocation envisaged for the Japanese Naval fleet has no
application to the sharing of the Japanese Merchant and Fish-
ing fleet and that such disposition is not circumscribed by
the decision on the sharing of the Japanese Naval vessels.
They would however be grateful to learn that the position is
as stated herein.
3.
His Majesty's Government wish to add that, because of
their Merchant Shipping losses and of the role which their
Merchant Navy played in the war against Japan, the Norwegian
Government are, in the view of His Majesty's Wovernment, en-
titled to a greater share of the Japanese Merchant fleet than
are certain members of the Far Eastern Commission. There are
also other countries, notably Denmark, Greece, Yugoslavia and
Egypt, which lost tonnage at Japanese hands. In the light of
the foregoing His Majesty's Government draw the conclusion that
the/

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
the United States proposal quoted in paragraph 1 of this Aide
Memoire is not intended to limit the division of the Merehant
Pleet to those States which are members of the Far Eastern
Commission but only to provide & forum where the claims of all
States, whether members or not, will receive proper consider-
ation.
4.
Subject to confirmation by the State Department that
the foregoing is also the view of the United States Government,
His Majesty's Government agree in principle that the disposal
of the Japanese Merchant and Fishing fleets should be under-
taken by an Allied Reparations body operating under the general
policies laid down by the Par Eastern Comnission.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
12th August, 1946.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
Weleived to
Mr. Vinicent by
13
08.25.1946.
Ref:2553/-/46
MEMORANDUM
His Majesty's Government have studied the Depart-
ment of State's Memorandun of 3rd September and note the
Department's concurrence in regard to the machinery by
which allocation of Japanese merchant fishing vessels
available for reparation should be handled, and to the
taking into account of the shipping losses of all countries
894.85
which were engaged in the war with Japan, whether members
of the Far Eastern Commission or not.
5
2.
His Majesty's Government wish to refer to the
principles adopted for the division of German shipping -
0-2546
principles which proved acceptable to the principal Mari-
time Nations and which, in their opinion, would be fair
and proper in relation to the allocation of Japanese
tonnage. The basis on which the Inter-Allied Reparations
Agency worked was as follows:-
(a) that the allocation of ships should be in pro-
portion to the overall losses of Merchant Shipping
by acts of war, on a gross tonnage basis of the
countries participating, whether those losses
occurred in the European or the Far Eastern war.
(b) that the allocation should take account of the
quality, age and type of these losses so that,
CS
so far as practicable, countries received like
for like.
594.85
Principle (a) was adopted because there was no practical
method of distinguishing between losses in the two wars
and also because it provided a fair measure of the contribu-
5
10.254
tion of each country to the war at sea.
3.1

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.96)
-2.
3.
Whilst it is r zed that decisions taken
by the Governments repr d at the Inter-Allied
NT
Reparations Agency in r n to German reparations do
94.
not directly bind those her Governments in regard
to reparations in the F t, His Majesty's Government
consider that there is ng case for arguing that
the same principles sha applied in relation to the
distribution of Japanes :hant ships. It is accord-
ingly desired to know v : the Department of State
agrees with this approthe problem.
ar
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
m.-
25th October, 1946.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
5
BOEMORANDUM
The Department of State acknowledges the reseipt of the
memorandum from the British Embassy, dated 25 Ostober 1946,
with respeet to the adoption of the formule used by the Inter-
Allied Reparations Agency for Germany, in the allocation as rep-
arations of Japanese shipping tonnago.
894.85/10-2546
The United States Government has not decided its pesition
7
on this point. It does wish to call to the attention of the
British Govermment the fact that, in the course of the discus-
sion on this subject by the Inter-Allied Reparations Ageney for
Germany, the United States Representative ineorperated in the
minntes, with unanimous approval, the reservation thet this basis
of settlement was accepted by the United States solely because it
was statistically desirable in the present instance and that it
did not constitute a precedent for the United States in the
distribution of Japanese shipping. Hence, the United States
CS/R
894.85
DDi
NK
Government feels entirely free to appreach this problem en the
110.2546
basis

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.85)
16
besis of its merits in connestion with the ever-all preblems
involved in the Japanese Reparatioms Settlemsnt.
Department of State,
Washington, De
194
A tate cpy
the gued origi
ria!
DEC
1948
HP
SD
FE BC A-H
JK:EMMartin:jph 11-19-46
3 Dec. Did C. Grom H; w
ppone Ross

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
111900
894.85/12-1146
UNRESTRICTED
113
To the
Acting United States Representative
to the United Nations,
New York, New York.
The Secretary of State transmits herewith as of possible value to
the work being done by a committee of the Bconomic and Social Council an
the reconstruction of the Far East, a now declassified study made about
a year ago by the Department of Sta te entitled The Japanese Merahant
Marine and Coastwise Shipping.
At the request of this Committee. the Department has in the past
made available a certain amount of information on the subject of the
Far East econory and the role the Japanese may be expected to play in its
reconstruction. It is therefore requested that this work be transmitted
to Ár. Adrien H. Alcan, E-92, Lake Success, as background information,
which though it depicts a merchant marine no longer in existence, should
fit in well with information Mr. Alcan plans to obtain from the Far
Eastern Commission on the subject of postwar levels of various Japenese
industries and enterppises.
CS/V
Enclosure:
R & A No. 2682
gud arigé
nal,
McC
894.85/12-1146
JK:WSMcCornick:bcb
12/10/46
10 1946 P.M.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.90)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
ESP
EE
RESTRICTED
Tolyo, December 12, 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 772
DC/R
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FORLL
DEC 30 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HOV
A
MERICAN MEPUBLIC A
SUBSgT: Reest   Restituto. of s "tsidy isayas"
S
TW
C
A
The Unitol States olitical Auviser has the honer to inform
the Depart cnt that the S.S. Islus Visuyas is scheduled to be re-
paired and refitted at the Otaru Factory, Hakodate Shipyard,
preparatory to restitution.
894.85/12-1246
The Civil  roperty Justodian, Generel Headguarters, Supreme
Com.ander for the Ailied Powers, has reguested that the Panamanian
Govermaent, wose Play the vessel was fiyin hen she came into
Japanese hande,  a ivised to la a forial claim for restitution of
the vessel.
getcon
The Civim property Sustodian desires to have time folloving in-
FE
formation centained in tne for.a clai.:
42ARA
(a) a complete deseription of the vessel, including.
TRC
photo raphs, ir available;
LE
SPD
() Froof of omershi, if ossibic, in the form of a
OCD
certified or photostatic copy of registry and eny other
certificute of title; and
x
FA(436)
the Japanese acquired the vessel.
12/30
As there is ne Pana wanian Govermment of ieiml in Japen, the cood
offices of the Departsent are requested to br' th's matter to the
attention of the Panamanian authorities.
fiee.
740.10119
Fiel
tem to Be Emb.
 AFFAIRS
Th JEMawDonad:i!
1ANG- 1947 y23/47
CS/REILED
Originjal und Hectograph to Department
FEB 1314/
89
4.85
701.9/350
GAAbbcy: vr
4
BRT
2
mng

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
The Secretary of State presents his cemplimemts to Nis
Excellency the Ambassador of Panama and has the haner to tranemit
the follosing information fer apprepriate action.
The United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander
894.85/12
fer the Allied Powers in Japan has informed the Department of
State that the S.S. Jalze Vigazae is sohedaled te be repaired
and rofitted at the Otaru Factory, Makodate Shipyard in Japam.
2-1246
The Civil Property Custodian, General Meadquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Porers, has requested that the Panamanism
Gevernment, whose flag the vessel was flying when she eame into
Japanese hands, be advised to file a formal claim for the restitutien
of the vessel.
C
S
The Civil Property Custodian desires to have the fellowing
A
information contained in the formal claim:
(a) A complete deseriptien of the vessel, including
8
94.85
photographs, if availables
(b) Proof of omership, if pessible, in the form of a
certlried or photostatie copy of regiatry and any ether
2
—124
certificate of titles and

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
(c) A brief statement of the cirewnstamess under wiish
the Japanese asquired the vessel.
The Department of State is informed that the vessel in questisn
was of British owmership. Consequently, the information regarding
restitution is being given the British Eabassy in Waahingten fer
the purpose of netifying Wallem Company, formerly located in
Kong Kong. It is assumed that the ewner of the vessel will furnish
the Panamanian Gevernment with any further details necessary to
complete the resitution of the vessel, but it should be noted that
under the restitution policy adopted by the Far Eastern Cemmissien,
the government of the country whose flag the vessel was flying
when captured is the appropriate authority for requesting
restitution of the vessel.
The Department of State will be pleased to assist the Panamanien
Government in any way possible in the tranamiesion of documents,
et cetera, to the Supreme Commander fer the Allied Povers to secure
the return of the S.S. Islas Visavas.
JAN
FEB.
31
Departmsnt of State,
1947
Washingten,
February194
CPM
Eag
BC
K-H
894.85/12-1246
X

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
MEMORANDUX
The Department of State desires to inferm the British Embassy
that a request for a claim for restitution has been received frem
the United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Gommmmder for
the Allied Powers in regard to the S.S. Isles Visayes. This
894.85/12-1246
vessel, according to the Department's information, was of
x1R
Panamanian registry and British owmership at the time of capture
by the Japanese. The Panamanian Government has, therefer, boen
requested by the Department to file a formal claim which should
include the following information:
(a) A complete description of the vessel, ineluding
photographs, if available;
(b) Proof of owmerahip, if possible, in the form of a
CS/A
certified or photostatic copy of rogistry and any other
certificate of titles and
8
(o) A brief stetement of the ciroumstances under which
6
the Japanese acquired the vessel.
In as mach as
12-124
elt
Disi

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.93)
Is as ch as Britich emerahip is invelved the Depertmené
desires to advise the British Embassy in order that the emmers,
who ere indicated as Wallem Company, Mong Long, may take the
nocessary action in connection with the claim of the Panamaniam
Government.
The Panamanian Governmsnt has been advised that the Department
of State will be pleased to use ite good offices in tranmitting
the necossary documents, et cetera, to Tokyo to bring this matter
to a conclusion.
Department of State,
Washington,
February 7 1947
(PM
9M
Eog
SD
ain
1/23/47

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES PÓLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
VISION OF FR
Tokyo, December 30, 1946.
-mMeogh-esp
No. 791
B-13MAIL ROOM
17
C3
HISTON OFUPANESE AND KOREAH
SUBJECT:
Restitution of S.S. Hirondelle.
SECONOMIC AFFAIRS
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
1AN2A947
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to inform
x1
the Department- that the S.S. Hirondelle, Japanese name Gyonan Maru,
gross tonnage l243, is now available for restitution.
740.00/19P.u
According to the "American Bureau of Shipping Register, 1946"
and Lloyd's "Register of Shipping for the year 1942-43, 1945-46,
and 1946-47", the owner of the vessel is Madrigal & Company, Manila,
her port of Registry, Manila, and flag Philippine. The Japanese
Government reports thet when the vessel wes seized she was flying
the American flag.
894.85/12-3046
"The American Bureau of Shipping Register, l946", in its list
of operators, names the Viking Agency, 24 State Street, New York City,
as operator of the vessel. "Lloyd's Register of Shipping, 194l",
lists the Viking Maritime Corporation, Inc., 62 Flagler Street, Miami,
Florida, as the owner of the vessel and her port of registry as Miami,
Florida.
2Esp
From the foregoing, it would appear that there was a change of
ownership and registry between the time that this listing took place
FE
and the commencement of hostilities.
LE
SPD
The Civil Property Custodian has requested that the proper govern-
TRC
ment in this case be asked to file claim for the restitution of the
vessel. The claim should include the following information:
(1) A complete description of the vessel including
photographs, if available.
(2) Proof of ownership preferably in the form of a
certified or photostatic copy of registry and other
certificates of title.
(3) A brief statement of the circumstances under
CS/A FILED
which the Japanese acquired the vessel.
The following provision is conteined in the directive on resti-
tution of vessels:
111947
"Within the limits of feasibility, ships damaged
or sunk and found in Japanese waters, on the request of
the claimant country should as a matter of priority be
SÉCRET FILE
salvaged, repaired, or refitted as mey be necessary to
permit their return in a condition substentially similar
to that at the time they came into Japanese hands. The
costs
DW

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Tokyo's Despatch No. 791,
December 30, 1946.
costs of necessary salvage, repair, and refitting in
Japan should be borne by the Japanese Government but should
be applied against the reparations apportionment to the
claimant country."
The Civil Property Custodian requests that the owners of the
S.S. Hirondelle be asked to state whether repair and refitting of the
vessel is desired under the provisions of this directive.
Original and hectograph to Department.
350
GAAbbey:1h
mm3

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
152
FEB 2 1947.
RESTRICTED
No. 410
To the
894.85/12-3046
United States Political Adviser to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
7
The Secretary of State refers to the Politioal Adviser's
despatch, No. 791, of December 30, 1946, subject: Restitution
of S. S. Hirondelle.
According to the information furnished the Department by
the Maritime Commission, the vessel in question was of Ameri-
can registry until March 28, 1941. She was then transferred
to Philippine registry, having been acquired by Vicente Madrigal,
Manila, and taken to the Philippines. The vessel sailed to
HongKong from Manila, arriving in October 194l, and mas seised
in HongKong at the time of Japanese occupation of that coleny.
The Department is, therefore, of the opinion that the vessel
should now be treated as Philippine, regardless of the Japanese
Government's report that the veseel was flying the American
flag when seised. However, should the Political Adviser feel
that there is sufficient importance to the Japanese Govern-
ment's report, the case should be reviewed.
If no further review is necessary, the request for claim
for restitution should be transmitted to the representative
of the Philippine Republic attached to SCAP's staff.
894.85/12-309
CS/R
FEB
AR
sog
JK:JEMaponald:bg
1/24/47
ESP

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.84)
Signnd
iek
feceincl in
fwrne
fier
217/47
2.
MENCRANDUN FOR THE SECRETARY, SEICS
Subjeet: Statement of U. B. Pesitien with Respest to
894.85/2-747
Reparatiens Claims to Japamess Merakant Shipping.
K9 740,00119P.W.
The State Member requerte that' the atteched paper, which
represents the views of the Depertment of State, be sirealated
for the censideration of the State-War-Navy Goerdinating Com-
mittee.
1
J. M. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Davy Coordinating Committee
C
894.
55
H0
RR8
1/13/47
208
JK:RBSmith:mrr
an 460

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
Ztaternt af U. S. Positla vith Bameet te
THE PROLEN
1. To formulate the U. 8. pesitiem with respect to:
a. Detarmimation of the besis of reparatioms elaims for Japanese
merehant shipping to be recogaised in the reparatioms settle-
mont.
b. Establishment of prosedures for reviewing and approving such
claims.
FACTS BEARDNO ON THE PROBLEN
2. See Appendix A.
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix B.
CONCLUSIONS
4. It is conoluded that:
a. Existing merchant ships in Japan which are deelared to be
available as reparations should be distributed among repara-
tions recipient coumtries in proportion to proven losses of
merchant shipping incurred during their respective peried of
belligereney in the war against Japan, up to and no more than
the total value of such losses.
b. Any oxisting merchant ships available as reparations but not
distributed under (a) above should be distributed according
to the same percentages as those computed for industrial
facilities.
e. The Secretary of State should invite countries at war with
Japan who suffered merchant shipping losses as a result of
their belligerency to submit claims for merchant shipping
reparations based on such losses.
d. The Secretary of State, through the Frc, or through such
other channels as desired, should invite the views and
attempt
-1-

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
attempt to secure the agreement of other nations conesrmed regarding
the methods for determination of reparatioms shares for available
Japanese merehant shipping, oalled for in (a), (b) and (c) above.
RECOMDDATIONB
5. It is recommended that after approval by the State-War-Mavy Coordinat-
ing Committee, this report be transmitted to the Joint Chiefs of Staff
for their information; that the conolusions hereof be transmitted to
the U.S. Member of the FEC for negotiation with the member nations
thereof; that the State Department take such action as may be neoessary
for proper implementation.
2

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
APPEDIX A"
FAOTS BLARING ON THE PROBLEN
1. Basie generel poliey to be adhered to by the United States with
respeet to reparations from Japan has been set forth in paragraph 1 of
the Potsdam Deelaration . . . .
"Japan shall be permitted to maintain such industries as
will sustain her economy and permit the exaction of just re-
parations in kind, but not those which would enable her to
rearm for war . . . ."
2. Swncc 52/7, Besie Direetive for Post-Surrender Malitary Government
in Japan Proper, provides in Section III, that it shall be a poliey of the
United States:
"C. To execute such program of reparations and restitution
as may be decided upon by the appropriate Allied authorities."
The SCAP is thereby directed as follows:
"28. You will assure the execution of programs of reparations
in kind and of restitution of identifiable looted property in accord-
anee with decisions of the appropriate Allied authorities transmitted
to you by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Reparations will be accomplished:
2. Through the transfer of Japanese property located
outside of the territories to be retained by Japan;
b. Through the transfer from Japan of goods, existing
plant equipment, and facilities that are not necessary to
the operation of a peaceful Japanese economy, or the sup-
plying of the ocoupying forees.
"All requests received by you, for reparations or restitu-
tion from the United Nations which have been victims of Japanese
aggression will be reported with your recommendations to the
Joint Chiefs of Staff."
3. SWNCC 150/7/D, Post-Surrender Poliey for Japan, nd corrigenda as
provided in SWNCC 150/8, refers to the general probIem of reparations and
its connection with ocoupation costs as follows:
b. Through the transfer of such goods or capital equipment
and facilities as should under policies set by Allied authorities,
be made available for this purpose. No form uf renaration shall
be axested which will interfere with or preindise the program for
Japan's demilitarisation, defraving the gost of the gcgupation
and the mmintenance of a minimum eivilian standard of living."
4. SWNCC 130 contains a memorandum for the Special Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary of State from the Secretary, SWnCC. The memorandum
states that the Department of State is requested to Prepare an initial
draft on the subjeet of reparations in kind and that:
"3. In general
-3 -

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
"3. Im geseral, the scope of the paper should inelude:
2. The form in which reparation is to be paid, espesially
the relative amounts payable in.
(1) existing espital equipment end stocks,
(2) ourrent output, and
(3) foreign assets.
d. The prinoiples on which raparation is to be divided
amoung claimants.
2. The relation of payment for occupation costs and
possible relief shipments to reparation payments.
f. Machinery and procedure for collection and distri-
bution of reparation.
5. In cable C 58222 (CM-IN 5491) from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers relative to inter-Allied reparati ons machinery, 25 February
1946, the recommendation is made:
"A. Nothing should delay the completion of establiahments
of national claims and determination of categories. A desirabb
goal is the completion of the program in 1946."
ppendix "B"
-4 -

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
ADXP
DIECHMSION
1. Merchamt shipping represemts a category of reparations asset of
special and particular interest to claimant countries, both because of
large losses of suoh shipping suffered during the war and of the importamce
of shipping in the imediate post war revival of trade and indestry. For
these reasons, available German marehant shipping has been distributed in
proportion to losses of shipping, rather than as a part of the gemeral re-
paratioms poel. It is believed that Japanese merchant shipping similerly
is of such importemce to claimante as to warrant special distributiom apart
from general Japanese assets.
2. In the division of German reparations approved by IARA, it was
finally decided to distribute merchant shipping in proportion to total
merohant shipping lesses inourred in the war without respect to theatre.
At that time, the Umited States specifically entered on the record a
statement that it did not consider this decision necessarily to be a
precedent for Japanese reparations.
3. In an Aide-Memoire, dated August 12, 1946, the British Government.
requested that Japanese merchant shipping be distributed in proportion to
total losses, as was dome in the cass of Germany.
4. Present estimates are that the raximm tonnage of Japanese merchant
shipping available for reparations will be very small. Although statisti-
cally, adoption of the British recommendation would inorease the claims base
of the U.K., Norway, and other nations, and would parmit the presentation of
claims by nations which inourred no shipping losses in the war with Japen,
the effect of such additional claims against the small tonnage available
would not increase substantially the actual tonnage assigned to those
countries.
5. In contrast with the small advamtage to Britain and other comtries
with large Atlantic losses which would result from the adoption of the
British proposal, is the possible great disadvantage of opening the door to
the presentation of claims to othor rep ratione goods on a total loss basis.
- 5-

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
If Russia, fer exsmple, were to present claims fer industrial fesilities
on a tetal loss basis, the distribatien of Japamese reparatiams desired by
the U. S. migtt be cempletely upeet. Sinee it is alreedy kmomm that Mexice
will attempt to present claims on a total loss besis, and simee it is to the
ebvious advantage of others to de likewise, it is inadvisable to make any
eoncessions which might weaken the opposition of the U. S. to sush a basis
ofclaims.
6. Since total losses of merekemt shipping inourred in the waer with
Japan are far in excess of probable reperations in kind, it is highly um-
likely that any shipping will be left over for distribution in accerdanee
with general reparations shares.
7. Some diffioulty may be encountered in distinguishing shipping lesses
incurred in the war with Japan from losses resulting frem Germam or Italiam
action. While it is not believed that the preblem of identificatiom will
present major diffieulties, it is believed advisable to request the sub-
mission of claims by other coumtries at an early date, in order te afferd
them suffisient time fer preparation, as well as an edequate time for review.
8. The invitation to submit claime would be issued only to countries
at war with Japan, and only for the period of their belligerency. This
latter restriction is necessery to prevent, for instance, the presentatiom
of Prenoh claims for merchant ships lost as a result of Allied action in
Indo-China while engaged in transporting goods to Japan in support of the
Japanese wer effort.
9. It is desirable that, in the current consultations with other
comtries regarding Japanese reperetions, as wide agreement as possible
be secured regarding the specific settlement of the merchant shipping
problom.
-6.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.92)
LEBAL ADVISÉN
APR 1 -1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CENTRAL TRANSLATING DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TRANSLATION
34571TMEH9HRITII
TC NO.
OFFICE OF
PROTOCOL
AMERICAN REPURUC AFFAINS
FEB 21947
EMBASSY OF PANAMA
FEB 1 9 1947
WASHILGTON 8, D.C.
DEPARTMENT QI YTITE
The Ambassador of Fanama presents his compliments to
His Excellency the Secretary of State and, thanking him
M
for his courtesy in providing him with information con-
cerning the steamer "Islas Visayas", of Fanamanian registry,
8
394.85/2-1447
which is in the akodate shipyard in Japan, avails himself
of the oprortunity to infornm His Excellency that he has
transmitted his note ver ale of the 7th of the present
month to the Minister of Foreifn affairs of Panama.
The An bassador of Panama renews to His Excellency the
assurances o his most distinguished consideration.
Initialed7
12-1246
Washington, D.C.
894.85
ESPP-A-H
February,14,1947.
JK
JA CCALE
OIVISION OF JAPARESE AND KOREA
ECONOMIC ÀFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 2 6 1947
E
22
8
m
BMRua
nal.
u1
894.85
2-1447

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.95)
PROTOCOL
1907 FEB
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EMBAJADA DE PANAMA
THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
FEB 1 7 1947
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
MM 11 30
894.85/2-1447
El Embajador de Panamá presenta sus cumplidos
a Su Excelencia el Secretario de Estado, y al darle
las gracias por la atención que ha tenido al suminis-
trarle la información sobre el vapor "Islas Visayas",
de matricula panameña que se encuentra en el Astillero
Hakodate en el Japón, aprovecha la oportunidad para
informar a Su Excelencig que he dado traslado de su
rT
nota verbal de 7 del presente al Ministro de Relaciones
Exteriores de Panamá.
El Embajador de Panamá reitera a Su Excelencia
las seguridades de su mas distinguida consideración.
.  
CENINAL TRANSLATING DIVISION
ED FEB 18 1947
Washington, D.C.
10.
34571
URKED
Febrero 14, 1947
FEB 1 8 1947

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
T—165
SION OF JAPANESE A
8
94.85
DE STATE
SION OF PUBLIC
Pachugton
A JK to hote
3/144/1g/3s
FEB 25 1947
FEB 24 75 
AAC1 167
VIA ALL AMERICA
2
2-29.
NLT MR PRESIDENT WASHNDC
47
FOR THE SAKE OF OUR CHILDREN CUR GRANDCHILDREN AND FOR GODS
SAKE SEE THAT ONE OF THE CONDITIONS OF THE GERMAN AND JAPANESE
TREATIES IS THAT NO GERMAN OF JAPANESE OWNED SHIPS OF ANY KIND E
EXCEPT
COASTAL OR FISHING SHIPS NOT
EXCEEDING THREE THOUSAND TONS SHALL
BE ALLOWED TO SAIL
THE SEAS OF
THE WORLD FOR
THE NEXT
894.85
ANY SUCH FCRBIDDEN SHIPS WILL BE CONFISCATED THE BALANCE OF THE
C
WORLD CAN SUPPLY ALL NECESSARY TONNAGE FOR THESE PEOPLE THESE
S
12-2347
TWO NATIONS ARE OUTSIDE THE PALE OF DECENT NATIONS AND HAVE
FORFEITED ANY RIGHT TO

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
FREEDOM OF THE SEAS THE UNITED STATES AND HER
ALLIES HAVE AMPLE POWER TO ENFORCE THIS AND IT IS ONLY WHAT COMMON
PRUDENCE AND FOPESIGHT DEMANDS I AM THE
RETIRED
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
OF
THE
PANAMA
CANAL SERVING FFOM 1904
TO
1940 IN BUILDING AND
OPERATING THE CANAL AND I WANT
TO SEE NO MORE GERMAN OR JAPANESE
SHIPS COMING THIS WAY
C A MCLLVAINE BALBOA HEIGHTS CZ

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.90)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
ebruary 24, 1947
espectfully re ferred t the
Lepartea I  le for cnsicer
  vl.
.C. LAPin
xe cutive Clerk

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
T-166
In reply refer to
MAP18
894.85/2-2347
JK
My dear Mr. MeIlvaine:
Your communication to the President of the United
States, regarding restrictions on German and Japanese
shipping, has been referred to this office for reply.
The Department of State is actively considering such
restrictions on German and Japanese shipping as will
protect the United States from any possible future threat.
I wish to thank you for your interest in this matter
of public policy.
Sincerely yours,
CS/V
Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese and Kor
Economic Affairs
894.85
Nr. C. A. Mcllvaine,
Balboa Heights,
an
145
Canal Zone.
MAI
N
2.23
JK:RBSmith:mrr
3/14/47
r

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.90)
MAR26
In reply refer to
DRF
My dear Mr. Diakover:
Your reguest of Pobruary 2sth on bahalf of the Pur Zasterm
894.85/3
Coswission for cortain early studies prepared by the Japan Branch
has been reoeives in the Division and has been given careful attem
tion.
Or the five studies regloutsd wo ure secding you wnder soparate
cover thirteen ooples of cach of tre following:
Ro. 2e82 - Japanene Merchunt Harine and Coastwise
-26
hlpping
Novamber 19, 1945, FREE
2647
No. 3300 - Japanose Iron amd Steel Industry: A
Study of the agaitude of the Disarmmment
VR894.60
May 1948, UNRESTRICTED
No. Ss38-n The Japanese canoellation of Wartime Indemities
Haroh 1947, UERSSTRICYED
The last named report has tbecn declassirled, at your request, fer
the purposse of the Cosiasion.
No. Sess, The Status of the Jepaneso Textile Industry, Part I.
CS/A
Cotton, issusd May I6, Igae is somewhat out of date at uhle Simes it ls
bollevod that the neede of the Commission for this type of informmtiem
would be better served, by re srence to the more revent Depertment of
State keport No. 26l9, Report of the Textile Wission to Japan, January-
Marol: 1948.
0. 3842,
Mr. le. Diokover.
894.85
Advimer to the U.ß. Representative
of the Par Eastern Caasisaion,
Par astern comission,
2616 Massao usetts Avenue, N. W.
Waahington 8, D. C.
3-26
no

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.84)
 e
Doaaate asfaira sd ay furtsar disribusien la smbjoot to theis
priar apyroval. We have besn informed ty  thas d to palley
of the Commissism at this sims.
I hoye the information and roports we are mending you will prove
of some value. Wo ahall be happ. to olfer our mssissanee to the
Commiasion on mny cocamion either sirough you or the members of the
yeeretarint.
Sineorely yours,
Charles C. stelle
Aeting Chief, Division
of Ressaroh for Par Mast
MAF 26
W.S.L
3/14/47
OIR
D  b ()

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Doft
FOR JAPAN
ESP
OFMAPANESE AND KO.
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Tokyo, Anr11 8, 1947.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
R2 91947
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 963
194
894.85/4-847
SUBJECT: Claim for Restitution of SS "Islas Vsavas"
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch No. 772, dated December 12, 1946, regarding
the S. S. Islas Visayas.
XR
The Civil Property Custodian, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, has informed this Mission that no
information concerning the claim has been received from the Panamanian
494.19
Government, and has requested the Department to ascertain, if possible,
if the Panamanian Government expects to file a formal claim for
restitution.
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
/Original & hectograph to Department.
CS/V
701.9/350
MAY 1 4 1947
FE
ARt
GAAbbey:mf
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LE
SRT
A H
RECEIV
28
1947

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
MAY 294
894:85/4-847
UNRESTRICTED
No. 507
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to the Political Adviser's
unclassified despatch No. 963 of April 8, 1947, conoerning a
possible claim by the Pamamanian Government for the restitutiom
of the S. S. "Islas Visayas."
Upon receipt of earlier correspondenes on this subject, the
Department transmitted the appropriate information to both the
Panamanian and British Embassies. To date no reply has been
received indicating what action is proposed. The matter has
again been brought to their attention, and will again be trans-
mitted by the respectiveFombassies to the interested parties.
In view of the channels through whioh this request will
CS/V
have to pass, and the coordination necessary between the two
governments and the owners in Hongkong, a considerable length
of time is required for the Panamanian Government to take
formal action. It is expected that this will be done on the
basis of verbal assurances, although the date of filing of
claim cannot at present be estimted. The Department understands
that, in the meantime, the British liaison mission in Tokyo is
in correspondence with London.
28
594.85/4-84
894.85/4-847
OR Sub
B7m
JH: JEMacDonxIa: mw
NA
SD
CPA
K-H
5/7/470
MAY 2.1
MAY ZJ

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: General J. H. Hilldring, A-H
FROM : E. M. Mertin, ESP
sUBJECT: Amendment to SWNCC 236/35 (Reparations Allocations Procedures)
1. SWNCC 236/45 (Reperations Allocations Procedures) has been
communicated as an interim directive to SCAP (JCS Serial 75). Paragraph
j. of SWNCC 236/35 (Policy Decision on Reparations Allocations Procedures)
is being held over in the FEC as a seperate U.S. policy proposal to be
discussed in connecticn with the negotiation of nationel percentage sheres
4
of reparations.
894.85/6-1747
2. Mr. Deimel, of TRC, has given his epproval to SWNCC 236/42 (Merchant
Shipping) providing it is made clear that the U.S. Government considers
itself free to dispose of Japanese merchant shipping received on reperations
acccunt which the U.S. Government coes not desire to utilize itself. LE
has indicated that the provisions of paragraph j. in SNCC 236/35 may
appropriately be made to apply to merchant shipping as well as to indus-
trial facilities.
3. It is requested, therefore, that A-H notify the SWNCC Secretariat
that the State Department desires the folloving amendment of paragreph j.
of SWNCC 236/35 as indicated by the underlining below:
(R
"Countries receiving industriel mechinery equipment or supplies,
894.60
or merchant shipping from Japan on reperations account should obligate
themselves not to offer such assets for sale or barter to another
country within t!ree years from the date of assignment of title of
facilities, except as such facilities may be bartered among reparations
receiving countries in exchange for cther assets allotted on reparations
account. Insofar as fulfillment of the U.S. claim for industrial equip-
ment and for merchant shipping is in excess of the ability or desire of
the U.S. to utilize it, the U.S. shall have the right to allocate or
otherwise dispose of its cleim, to other claimants and to Korea, on a
CS/JRC
political basis."
4. Attached is a draft memorandun fron General hilldring to the
SWNCC Secretariat requesting that Top SWNCC epprove the proposed State
Department amendment.
894.85/6-174
243
RAA Lom
EX
JK:Barnett:evc
6/17/47
A-H

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT
6/16/47
ATTACHMENT
To:
SWNCC
From:
The State ember
Subject: Amendment to SWNCC 236/35
1. It is requested that members of the State-War-Navy Coordinating
Committee be informed of the desire of the State member to secure approval
of the following amendment to paragraph j. of SWNCc 236/35. The modified
wording is indicated by underlining.
"Countries receiving industrial nechinery equipment or supplies,
or merciant shipping from Japan on reparations account should obligate
themselves not to offer such assets for sale or barter to another
country within three years from the date of assignment of title of
facilities, except as such facilities may be bartered among reparetions
receiving ccuntries in exchange for other assets allotted on reperations
account. Insofar as fulfillment of the U.S. claim for industriel equip-
ment and for m rchant shi ping is in excess of the ability or desire of
the U.S. tc utilize it, the U.S. shell have the right to allocete or
otherwise dispose of its claim, to other claimants and to Korea, on a
political basis."
2. A1l of the provisions of SWNCC 236/35 have been com unicated to
SCAP as an interir directive in SWiNCC 236/45 excepting paragreph j. which
is held on the acenda of the Far Eastern Conmission pending the inter-
Allied agreement which is cleerly necessery in order that the provisions
of that paregraph be given practicel effect. The extension of paragraph
j. to cover merchant shipping es well as industrial facilities is
requested in order that there may be no policy obstacle in the way of
disposal of Japanese merchant slipping received on reparations account
by the U.S. Government on exactly the same basis es disposal of Japenese
industrial equipment.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
file
4120147
In reply refer to
JX
MEMORANDUN FOR THE SEORETARY, SWNCC.
FROM THE STATE MEMBER
894.85/6-2047
Subject: "U.S.Policy on Reparations Allocations
Procedures for Industrial Facilities
in Japan".
It is requested that the following proposed amend-
740.00119P.W).
ment to paragraph 4 1 of SWNCC 236/35, "U.8. Poliey on
Reparations Allocations Procedures for Industrial Facil-
1ties in Japan", be submitted to the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee for approval. The modiried word-
ing is indioated by underlining.
"Countries receiving industrial machinery
equipment or supplies, or merehant shipping from
Japan on reparations account should obligate them-
selves not to offer such assets for sale or barter
to another country within three years from the date
of assignment of title of facilities, except as
such facilitles may be bartered among reparations
receiving countries in exchange for other assets
allotted on reparations account. Insofar as fulrill-
ment of the U.S. claim for industrial equipment and
for merchant shipping is in excess of the ability
or desire of the U.8. to utilize it, the U.8. shall
have the right to allocate or otherwise dispose of
S
1ts claim, to other claimants and to Korea, on a
political basis."
municated to SCAP as an interim direct1ve in SWNCC 236/45 
excepting paragraph 1, which 1s held on the agenda of the O
Far Fastern Commission pending the inter-Allied agreement
VE
neceseary

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
mecessary in order that the provisioms of the paragraph
be givem practical effeet. The extemsion of paragraph
1 to cover merohant shipping as well as industrial fasil-
Ities is requested in order that there may be me poliey
obstacle in the way of disposal of Japamese merekant ship-
ping received on reparations account by the U.S. Gevera-
ment on exeotly the same basis as disposal of Japanese
imdustrial equipment.
J. H. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee
Attachment:
SWNCC paper.
94？
RAT
Lem
JK:RWBarnett:eve
6/20/47
£8F
NA
SJK
LE
A-H

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
FEWA
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
File
SWN-5502
DA
25 June 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
894.85/6-2547
Subject: SWNCC 236/42.
Forwarded herewith for appropriate imple-
mentation by the Department of State is a copy
of SWNCC 236/42, approved by the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee at their 58th Meeting on
24 June 1947.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
. M. More ley
Member
J. H. HILLDRING
us
Chairman
FEC
+7
DIVISION OFM
得
Enclosure:
NORTHVSMASIAN AFFAIRS
6
SWNCC 236/42, Copy No. 55
JUN 2 6 1947
1541
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
clas t
THIS DOCUMENT IS DECLASST
WHEN ATTACHMENT IS REMU
CONFIDENT

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY NO. 55
CONFIDENTIAL
25 June 1947
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION ON SWNCC 236/42
STATEMENT
OF U. S. POSITION WITH RESPECT TO
REPARATIONS
CLAIMS
TO
JAPANESE MERCHANT
SHIPPING
Note by the Secretaries
At their 58th Meeting on 24 June 1947 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee approved SWNCc 236/42.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.55
SWNCC 236/42
19 March 1947
Pages 381 - 387, inc1.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
STATEMENT OF U. S. POSITION WITH RESPECT TO
REPARATIONS CLAIMS TO JAPANESE MERCHANT SHIPPING
Reference: SWNCC 236/39/D
Note by the Secretaries
1. The enclosure, a report by the Subcommittee for the
Far East in response to the above reference, is circulated for
consideration by the Committee.
2. A copy of this report has been forwarded to the Joint
Chiefs of Staff for comment from a military point of view. These
comments will be circulated to the Committee upon receipt thereof
from the Secretary, Joint Chiefs of Staff.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
STATEMENT OF U. S. POSITION WITH RESPECT TO
REPARATIONS CLAIMS TO JAPANESE MERCHANT 3HIPPING
Report by the
State-War-Navy Coordinating Subcommittee for the Far East
THE PROBLEM
1. To formulate the U. S. position with respect to:
a. Determination of the basis of reparations claims for
Japanese merchant shipping to be recognized in any repara-
tions settlement.
b. Establishment of procedures for reviewing and ap-
proving such claims.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONCLUSIONS
4. It is concluded that:
a. No final determination can now be made of the amount
of Japanese merchant shipping, if any, that may be declared
available for distribution as reparations.
b.
Existing merchant ships of Japanese registry which
are declared to be available as reparations should be dis-
tributed among reparations recipient countries in proportion
to proven losses of merchant shipping incurred during
their respective periods of belligerency in the war against
Japan, and as a result of participation in action against
Japan, up to and no more than the total value of such losses.
c.Any existing merchant ships declared available as
reparations from Japan but not distributed under b above
should be distributed according to the same percentages as
those computed for industrial facilities.
SWNCC 236/42
381

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
a.
The Secretary of State, after determination of
the amount, if any, of Japanese merohant shipping which may
be made available for reparations, should invite countries
at war with Japan who suffered merchant shipping losses as
defined in b above to submit claims for reparations from
Japanese merchant shipping based on such losses.
e. The Secretary of Stete, through the FEC, or through
such other channels as desired, should invite the views and
attempt to secure the agreement of other nations eligible
under b above concerned regarding the methods for deter-
mination of reparations from available Japanese merchant
shipping, called for in b, c, and d above.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5. It is recommended that:
B。
This report be transmitted to the JCs for comment
from the military point of view.
b. The SWiCC approve the conclusions in paragraph 4
above.
1.
After approval by the SWNCC, the paper be trans-
mitted to the Secrtary of State for implementation.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "A"
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1. Basic general policy to be adhered to by the United
States with respect to reparetions from Japan has been set forth
in paragraph 1 of the Potsdam Declaration:
"Jepan shall be permitted to maintain such industries
as will sustain her economy and permit the exaction of just
reparations in kind, but not those which would enable her
to rearm for wer....
2. SWNCC 52/7, Basic Directive for Post-Surrender Military
Government in Japan Proper, provides in Section III, that it shall
be a policy of the United States:
"C. To execute such program of reparations end restitu-
tion as may be decided upon by the appropriate Allied
authorities."
The SCAP is thereby directed as follows:
"28. You will assure the execution of programs of
repar tions in kind and of restitution of identifiable
looted property in acccrdance with decisions of the approp-
ricte Allied authorities transmitted to you by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. Reperations will be accomplished;
"a. Through the transfer of Jepanese property loc
ated outside of the territories to be retained by Japan;
"b. Through the transfer from Jepan of goods,
existing plant equipment, and f&cilities that are not
necessary to the operation of a pecceful Jap nese
econony, or the supplying of the occupying forces.
"Ail requests received by you, for reparstions or
restitution from the United Nations which ve been victims
of Jap nese aggrescion will be reported with your recom-
mendations to the Joint Chiefs of Staff."
3. SWNCC 150/7/D, Post-Surrerder P-licy for Jepan, and
corrigenda as provided ir SWicc 150/8, refers to the general
problem of rep rations and its conrection with occupation costs
as follows:
"b. Through the transfer of such goods or capital
equipment and facilities :s should under policies set by
Allied authorities, be made available for this purpose.
No form of reparation shall be exected which will interfere
with or prejudice the program for Jepan's demilitarization,
defraying the cost of the occupation end the maintenence of
a minimum civilian stand:rd f living."
SWNCC 236/42
- 383 -
Appendix ""

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
4. SWNCC 130 contains a memorandum for the Special Assistant
to the Assistant Secretary of State from the Secretary, SWNCC.
The memorandum states that the Department of State is requested
to prepare an initial draft on the subject of reparations in
kind and that:
"3. In general, the scope of the paper should include:
a. The form in which reparation is to be paid,
especially the relative amounts payable in
(1) existing capital equipment and stocks,
(2) current output, and
(3) foreign assets.
d. The principles or which reparation is to be
divided among claimants.
e. The relation of payment for occupation costs
and possible relief shipments to reparation payments.
f. Machinery and procedure for collection and dis-
tribution of reparation.
5. In cable C 58222 (CM-IN 5491) from the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers relative to inter-Allied reparations
machinery, 25 February 1946, the recommendation 1s made:
"A. Nothing should delay the ompletion of establishments
of national claims and determination of categories. A
desirable goal is the completien of the program in l946."

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
é
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSSION
1. Merchant shipping represcnts a category of reparations
asset of special and particular interest to claimant countries,
both because of large losses of such shipping suffered during
the war and of the importance of shipping in the immediate post
war revival of trade and industry.
For these reasons, available
German merchant shipping has been distributed in proportion to
losses f shipping, rather than as a part of the general repara-
tions pool.
It is believed that Japanese merchant shipping
similarly is of such importance to claimants as to warrant
special distribution apart from general Japanese assets.
2.
In the division of German reparations approved by IARA,
it was finally decided to distribute merchant shipping in pro-
portion to total merchant shipping losses incurred in the war
without respect to theatre. At that time, the United States
specifically entered on the record a statement that it did not
consider this decision recessarily to be a precedent for
Japanese reparations.
In an Aidc-Memoire, dated August 12, 1946, the British
Government re guestei that Japanese merchant shipping be dis-
tributed ir. proportior to total l sses, as was done in the cast
of Germany.
4. Present estimates are that the maximum tonnage of Japan-
ese merchant shipping availablc for reparations will be very
emall.
Althougn statistically, adoptior of the British recom-
mendation would increase the claims base of the U. K., Norway,
and other rations, and would permit the presentation of claims
by nations which incurred no shipping losses in the war with
Japan, the effect of such additional claims against the small
tonnage available would not increase substantially the actual
tonnage assigned to those countries.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
4
2
5.
In contrast with the small advantage to Britain and
other countries with large Atlantic losses which would result
from the adoption of the British proposal, is the possible great
disadvantage of opening the door to the presentatior. of claims
to other reparations goods on a total loss basis.
If Russia,
for example, were to presert claims for industrial facilities
on a total icss basis, the distribution of Japanese reparations
desired by the U, S. might be completely upset. Since it is
already known that Mexico will attempt to present claims on a
total loss basis, and sirce it is to the obvious advantage of
others to do likewise, it is inadvisable to make any concessions
which might weaken the opposition of the U, S. to such a basis
of claims.
6.
Since total losses of merchant shipping incurred in the
war with Japar are far in excess of probablc reparations in
kind, it is highly unlikely that any shipping will be left over
fcr distribution ir acccrdance with general reparations shares.
7. Some difficulty may be erccuntered in distinguishing
shipping losses inourred in the war with Japan from losses
resulting from German or Italian action.
While it is nct be-
lieved that the problem of identification will present major
difficulties, it is belicved advisablo to request the submission
of claims by cther countries at ar early date. in order to afford
them sufficient time for preparation, as well
Ds ar. adequate
tine for revicw.
8. The invitaticn to submit claims vould be issued only
to courtries at war with Japar, and oniy for the poriod of their
belligereney.
This latter restrictior. is necessary to prevent,
for instance, the presentaticr or French claims for merchant
ships lost as a result of Allied action in Indo-China while
engaged in transporting goods to Japan in support of the Japanese
war effort,
SWNGC 256/42
386

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
9. It is desirable that, in the current consultations with
other countries regarding Japanese reparations, as wide agree-
ment as possible be secured regarding the specifio settlement of
the merchant shipping problem.
SWNCC 236/42
382

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
July 1, 1947
In reply refer to
NA
CONFIDENTIAL
6-2547
MEMOR NDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In accordance with a memorandum dated June 25, 1947,
from the Stste-War-Navy Coordin ting Committee, there 1s
enclosed a Ststement of the United States Position with
Reepect to Reparations Claims to Jepsnese Merehant
Shiooing, compr1sing the conclusions of SWNC0 236/42
which was approved by the St te-War-Navy Coordinating
Committee on June 24, 1947.
The United States Member, Far Eastern Commission,
1s requested to submit this statement of United States
policy to the Commiseion with a view to obtaining a
policy decision on the subject.
PHILANDER P. CLAXTON, JR.
CS/V
for J. H. Hilldring
Aseistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Statement of United States Position
with Respect to Reparetions Claims
to Japanese Merchent Shipning.
894.85
aen
wb
LESP
NA: ALDunning: ggg
FE
AH
6/26/47183
true copy of
the signed orly.-
CR/21C
CONFIDENTIAL
47

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
MA:GGG
COBCLUSIOMS
It is conoluded that:
I. No final determination can now be made of the ameumt
of Japanese merehant shipping, 1f any, that may be deelared
available for distribution as reparations.
b. Existing merchant ships of Japanese registry whish
are deolared to be available as reparatioms ahould be dis-
tributed among reparations resipient countries in proportion
to proven losses of merohant shipping incurred during
their respeotive periods of belligereney in the war against
Japan, and as a result of participation in aotion against
Japan, up to and no more than the total value of sueh lesses.
Q. Any existing merchant shipe deolared available as
reparations from Japan but not distributed under b abeve
should be distributed according to the seme percentages as
those comouted for industrial facilities.
A. The Secretary of State, after determination ef
the amount, 1f any, of Japanese merohant shipping whish may
be made avallable for reparations, should invite countries
at wer with Japan who suffered merehant shipping lesses as
defined in b above to submit claims for reparations from
Japanese merchant shipping based on sueh losses.
. The Seoretary of State, through the FEo, or through
such other channels as desired, should invite the viows and
attempt to secure the agreement of other nations eligible
under b above concerned regarding the metheds for deter-
mination of reparations from available Japanese merohant
shipping, called for in b. I, and A above.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
upo
DS
DIVISION OF
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
3851
3
DP
DEC 1-1947
From: Tokyo
ACTION DS
WSTubrk-12/2/4
Date: Nov. 20, 1947
INPO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Rec'd: Nov. 28,1947
BE/R
File- 6/23/50
12:54 PM
MWC
FE
UNCLASSPIED
DC/L
OCD
SECRETARY OF STATE
CIA
WASHINGTON
OFD
BE
A-123, November 20 1947
Department may wieh to inform Government of the Republic
of Panama that the ship Eldorado,said to have been registered
in a Penamanian port and to have been flying the flag of Panama
at the time the ship was acquired by the Japanese, 1s aground
in Hakata Bay, Fukuoka, Japan, and is in salvable condition.
8
6
Civil Property Custodian, General Headquarters, Supreme
4
Conmender for Allied Pcwers, refers to present plicy of F r
Eastern Commission reguiring that claims for restitution of
8
shipe be filed by and resitutuion be made to the Government
5
of country whose flag the vessel was flying or on whose
registry of shipping the vessel was carried at the time of
sinking, seizure, or acqulsition by the Japanese, and re-
quests that Panamanian Government be advised to file a formal
claim for restitution of the ship, the claim to include for-
2
lowing informetion:
0
4
(a) Complete descripticn of the vessel, including
photographs if avaiiable.
(b) Proof of ownerahip, preferably a certified or
photostatic copy of registry and other certificates
title;
(c) A brief statement of the cirrumetances under
which the Japanese acquired the vessel.
SEBALD
701.9
894.85
RBF1nn: VP
UNCLASSIPIED
RETYP 3
FILED
271950
wi
Q

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
FOREIGN SERVICE OPERATIONS MEMORANDUM
701.9
December 3, 1947
To:
AmEmbassy, Panama
From:
Subject:
FOREIGN HEPRESENTATION: Possible claim for
restitution of the Panamanian ship, ELDORADO.
Reference: None.
85/11-3047
Attached 1s a copy of A-123 of November 20, 1947 from
USPOLAD, Tokyo concerning the ship ELDORADO which reportodly
was flying the flag of Panama at the time the ship was
894.85
acquired by the Japanese.
Please convey the sense of the attached airgram to the
Foreign Office and, if the latter wishes to present a
formal claim for the return of the ELDORADo, submit to the
Department the information outlined in Tokyo's A-l23.
/11-2047
DEC 51947
Enclosure:
A-123 from Tokyo,
dated November 20, 1947.
947
P..
AL1 57
1341
CS/H
1CB
DS:WJMarx:MMcC
1.1.V
12/2/47
CPA

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
Panama
11-2047
17.85
.P.819.85
BmB
The Acting Secretary of State presents his compliments to
His Excellency the Ambassador of Panama and has the honor to
894.85/11-2047
inform him that the Sumpreme Commander for the Allied Powers in
Japan bas notified the Department of State that the ship Bldorade,
presumably of Panamanian registery, is now aground in Hakata Bay,
Fukuoks, Japan, and is in salvageable condition. The Supreme
819.85
Commander refers to the present policy of the Far Eastern
Commission whiah permits vessels looted by the Japanese from
Allied owners during the course of the war to be salvaged and
refitted at the expense of the Japanese Government and returned
to the rightful omers.
The Supreme Commander suggests that if the Government of
CS/V
the Republic of Panamm desires to file & formml claim for the
restitution of the Eldorado, the claim include the following
information:
894.85
1. A complete deseription of the vessel, including photo-
graph if available,
11-2047

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.89)
2. Proef of omership, preferably a certified or phote-
static copy of registry and other certifiestes title,
3. A brief statement of the circumstanees umder whieh the
Japaness acquired the ressel.
Department of State,
Washington,
12,1947。
.EO
JR
DEC
8
RSNN
Jp
OE:RBS1th/cmb
12/9/47-
CPA
SD
NA
RA

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.84)
UEC
41947
 do Prefeseer sheldons
894.85/12-447
Your reguest Cor a opy of phe Japeneee Marohant Warlse and
repert is being sent to you under separate covor.
We mare mest interested in Xr. Hunsberger'a repert ef the
aetávities of the rar Eastern Institate at the University at mak
reported to you, nemely, the gensine saterost we maiatain ls the
metivitles ar the Inssitute. Your peafossional beskgroend in
metters pertaising to the merahent mrine mggests that aster you
have revioved the repert thas we are transsittinge you may wisk to
an eppertanity to di souss your project outlina, sourse materiala, or
any problome tat my arise.
sinserely yours,
OSA
Jeak W. Lydman
Leting Chief, Japan Bremch
Division of Researsh for Par East
494.85
Professer Charles 3. Shelden.
Departmest of Leonesies,
University of Nashingter,
Sesttle, Washington.
447
21
22/2/47
/ics
2
DRF wwLydmani dw
E.um.k

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
3725
, PREDIDENt
K. NAKASHIMA
JAPAN FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC.
ACE PRESIDENTS
R. ASAMA
4
I. IINO
O. KINOSHITA
H. MIYAZAKI
Y. NAITO (OBAKA)
Tokyo, March 19,
ntral
Mr. George F. Kennan,
DIVIS:ON OF OCCUPIED
Chief of the Planning Board of the
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Must
APR 1.9 1948
United States State Department.
DEPARTMENT. OF STATE
Returned to
Respected sir: -
Enclosed you will please find a copy of "Some obse
vation on the future of the Japanese merchant marine", which
the result of a very hard work of my associates who made an
over-all analysis of our trade situation and unanimously agreed
that top priority consideration be given to the current shipping
condition, so that eager efforts be exerted by all shipping
894.85/3-1948
interests to make good the war losses as best they can.
Japan lost in the Pacific War three thousand and odd
hundred ships, aggregating 8,840,000 tons, together with the
accessory losses due to war damages done to shipbuilding
installations, harbor facilities and warehouses, amounting to
¥ 4,240,000,000 in al1. Her mercantile marine is swept from
the seas and cannot be restored for many years to come on a
scale adequate to meet the requirements of her own commerce.
C
she will have to pay to foreigners for the carriage of her trade
S
D
such charges as they will be able to exact, and will receive
8
W
0
4
only conveniences as it may suit them te give her. We will very
85/
Rev.
13.1948
Cat
HEAD OFFICE:
NIPPON KOGYO CLUB BLDG, MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, JAPAN TEL. 23-2865 23-4649 (EXT.)
TOKYO BRANCHES:
BOEKI KAIKAN, NISHI 7-CHOME, GINZA, CHUO-KU, TOKYO
TEL. 57-0141 57-5404
NIPPON BOEKI SHINKOKAI. ANDO-SHIPPO BLDG. 5-CHOME, GINZA, CHUO-KU. TOKYO TEL. 57-1852 57-5265
LOCAL BRANCHES:
YOKOHAMA NAGOYA KYOTO OSAKA KOBE FUKUOKA KUMAMOTO KIRIU

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
7
asily realize, therefore, that Japan's return to international
commerce will surely meet with immense obstruction in the field
of sea transportation. It will be impossible for us to meet
the ever-increasing demand in sea transportation, unless the
shipping capacity is widely increased through purchasing foreign
bottoms or building new ships in Japanese shipyards. The recent
report, prepared by Overseas Consultants, headed by Mr. Clifford
Strike, recommended that Japan be permitted to "retain a new
ship construction capacity of 400,O00 tons annually to build up
her merchant fleet to a minimum aggregate tonnage of 4,000,000"
and to retain a drydock capacity sufficient to service this
fleet. This is a most gratifying step for Japan.
The United States of America which possesses the
ingredients of power and the willingness to use economic res-
ources, in support of international policy, may eventually
decide to take measures in putting dollars back into foreign
circulation in order to alleviate the one-sided world trade and
balance the growing disparity. The really important moves in
that direction must be the spending of American tourists abroad,
and the sending of capital abroad in the form of foreign inves-
tments. But if the United States could return some of its ocean
trade to foreign bottoms, and pay for the service in dollars,
much might be done to the advantage of most countries in finding
their chief source of dollars to save their slim dollar assets.
As for Japan, her national economy cannot possibly

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
maintain an equilibrium in face of a continued accumulation of
an adverse trade balance. In order that she may restore her
commercial normalcy and develop her international receipts,
Japan should have to try every conceivable means to get the
maximized operation of avairable way and to the best advantage.
It is for this, and this al one, that we beg to present to you
our statement on the future of Japanese merchant marine for
your kind consideration.
With assurances of my profound respect and courtesy,
I remain, sir,
Your humble servant,
Kunakichi Naknshing
Kumakichi Nakashima.
President, Japan Foreign Trade Council, Inc.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
3725
SOME OBSERVATIONS CN
THE FUTURE CF THE JAPANESE MERCHANT MARINE
By Aumekichi Nakajime,
resident, Japan oreign Trade Association.
FART I. LEVEI. OF THL JAPANESE SHIPPING
A U.F. despatoh, dated eshington, ebruary 12, reported
that the Far Eastern Commission would, according to an informed
official, set the level of shipping to be permitted Japan 'some-.
what below' the 3,ooc,Ccc gross tons, which had been consistently
advocated by the United States. The same report said that there
vas a virtual agreement on 1, soc,Ccc tons of shipping for the
coastwise trade; but the nited States insistence on 1,50c,000
additioral tons for oversees services vas opposed by most of the
other ten nations, which believed that 50o,ccc tons woula be
sufficient for this purpose. h compromise between 2,ccc,Cco and
,cCc,Coc tons for the entire Japanese shipping appeared likely,
according to the press report, with s good possibility that it
would be ,50c,c0c gross tons.
assuming for the moment that the foregoing report gives an
accurate account of what is going on in the Ec., I wish to be
allowed to offer a few observetions on this problem, in the belief
that the probable compromise figure of 2,500,000 tons, certainly
the lower limit of ,cC0,ccc tons, vould seriously impede the
economic recover of Japen, and would not be consonant with the
basic Allied policy. Indeed it would not be an over-statement
to say that even the United tates proposal of 3,ccc,coc tons,
while far more realistic than other levels mentioned, would still

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
fall short of achieving the objective of making this country
self-supporting economically at an early date.
Iet it be recslled at the outset that Japan had in 1930-34
approximately 4,000,000 gross tons of shipping, exolusive of
fishing vessels, wooden ships, and other miscellaneous oraft,
when her population, not including the Koreans and Formosans,
was around 60,000,000. During these years, about 60,000,000
tons of cargoes of all descriptions were transported annually
by coastwise shipping, while export shipments averaged some
9,000,000 tons per annum, es against about 27,000,000 tons of
imports that moved yearly.
By projecting these facts and figures into the future,
it has been caloulated that the nation of 32,500,000 souls,
which will be reached before 1955, will require not less than
1,200,00c tons of shipping for her coastwise trede, and a little
over 3,200,000 tons of vessels for overseas services, or the
total of some 4,500,000 tons of merchant shipping, if she is
to achieve an economic stebility on the living standard of the
years 1930-34.
Suoh a merchant marine should consist of -
For Cverseas ilade:
Dry Cargo Ships
2,980,000 tons
Fassenger-Cergo Ships
74,000
11
tons
Tankers
165,000
1
3,219,000
For Domestic Trede:
Dry Cargo Ships
366,000 tons
Coasting Liners
200,000
11
Tourist Ships
20,000
18

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Tankers
35,000 tons
Viscellaneous
150,000
1,271,000
4,490,000 tons
For further details reference should be made to an exhaustive
study made by the General Maritime Board, Ministry of Transporten
tion, end informally submitted last August to the Civil Transporta-
tion Seotion, GHC., SCAp., by whom it has, I understand, been given
rather wide circulation.
. it is more than probable that you are
already acquainted with it.
It is obvious. from the comparison of the foregoing figures
and those menticned in the ashington despatch cited above, that
on the tonnage required for the domestic services there is no
material difference. The principel difference is in the volume
of ships considered necessery by the Japanese for foreign trade
and that whioh is regarded by other nations as needed or allowable
for employment in the same trade.
For the advocacy by the United states of the 3,00c,00o tons
limit for Japan, in the face of the numerically stronger opposition,
I have nothing but gratitude. Nevertheless I wish to be permitted
to draw your attention to the inevitable result of setting the
level of the future Japanese Nerohant marine too low, partioularly
to the effect on the balance of Japan's overseas commerce and the
eventual stabilization of the ccuntry's economy.
In the years 1930-34, the unfavorable visible balance of trade
of Japan and the favorable invisible balance created by her merohent
marine were s follows:

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
Year
Excess of Import
Net Income
over Export
from Shippin
1930
￥168,000,000
￥ 165,319,000
1931
160,000,000
129,343,000
1932
141,000,000
106,258,000
1933
5d,787,000
99,701,000
1924
129,277,000
155,703,000
40/1534
181.413
131,265,000
It is evident thet the net income from shipping services almost
offset the adverse visible balance of trade in those 'normel' years,
Such wes the important pert thet cur shipping played in the general
eoonomy of Jepan.
There is a unenimity of opinions on the probable trend of the
nation s foreign trade in years to come. in exact proportion to
the larger unfavorable visible trade balance of the future, her
merchant marine will have to perform the vitally importent task of
earning a greater revenue through the sele of its services in the
carrying trade of the world. Inability of her shipping to fill
this role will mean e coniinuel impeverisheert en ultimate bank-
ruptey cf the poorly endowed country witn er incleasire population.
en the receipt of tho ashinston repert refeired to ebove, a
hurried survey was conducted to estimate the decreusec snipping
revenues us compared with that of a ltrger Jepanese merenant shipping
in overseas commeree. Yerely teking the import, whicn will be much
greater in volume than exnert, one investigetor arrived at the
following comparetive results:
if Japan had in Oversees
Gross Preight
rnines vill be
Services -
By Poreign
By Japanese
Vessels
yessels
(A) ,Ccc,(cc tons of shipping
100,000,000
200,000,000
(B) 1,500,000
-1-
200,000,000
100,000,000

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
(0) 1,000,000 tons of shipping
232,000,000
68,000,000
(D)
500,000
-1-
266,000,000
34,000,000
which were besed on the anticipated import of about 29,c00,000 ton
of dry cargoes in the period of stabilized economy, against some
27,c00,0c0 tons of similar cargoes moved in 1934.
Containing a good deal of elements of conjecture, as any such
study of future trsde necesserily must, this preliminery survey doe
serve to shon the sericusnees of the impust of a decreased shipping
revenues on the balance of foreign trade of this nation.
.As a matter
of fect, the foregoins estimated losses of revenues of the Japanose
shipping must be revised upward, at least by one-third, because of
similer shrinkages in freight incomes from export shipments. Purthor-
more, the estimated decreases will be all the more pronounced es the
Japanese tonnage evailable for overseas trade progressively diminishes;
because the lorger, hence more lueretive, voyeges will have to be
given up to on inereasing extent.  t might be more accurate, there-
fore, to ead so to the esti sted losses shchl in the above tablo.
It may be averred that the projected movement of oversoas
cargoes mentioned cbove will fe:l to materielize within the short
period cf 5 to 7 yeers. Ihe answer to this argument is logically
thet, if the projected lecovery does rot take place to any degree,
then precisely to that degree must the shipping industry assume an
additionel burden of compenseting the unbelanced foreign trade of
the economically unstebilized courtry.
If, on the other hand, a division of lieight revenues betweon
foreign and Japanese shipping in case A) ubove should appear to
be too immodest a clair for a defested nation to advance, it must bo
pointed cut that such a distribution ould be essential to the

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 
defeated nation exactly because of the defeat and the much more
adverse trade belence that would inevitably ensue. If Japan,
with her evary resource reduced tut her population, hes less goods
to sell and more tc buy abroad than ever before, she must needs
to allowed to sell more in services. of which shipping is in the
forefrogt.
If denied to dc so, she will continue to be a burden
on the Allitd nations, us well us to other countries of the world,
being incapable of meetins her belarce of international payment, 
a liability in the vorld sconony in yeurs to come. it is precisely
for this reason that I en emboldened to uring this matter to your
consideration, in the fervent hope that Japan would be enabled to
apprcach a finarcial solvene: through the betterment of her shipping
revenue.
(ver a mumber of yeure, Japan's st el ingot production
and her merchart shippirg tonnuge figures showed a very close
parallel, with the shipping tonnage a liutle above that of steel
capacity. This,  believe, was not by desisn but by accident
of the country's geogrephical posision in relation to her own ro-
sources cf raw materials and those of neighboring countries on
which she had to rely. se the cause what it may. it is not
surprising thet these two basic industrial factors, steel pro-
duction and merchant marine tonnage, shoulu move in unison. If
a steel ingot capacity of .,t,ccc tons per snnum Is to be allowed
Jepan, therefore, sh, can, I am persuaded, make a good case out
for asking a mercnant shipping of at least 4,cec,( gross tons on
this ground alone.
I am not unaware, in this connection, of the argument heard
in some quarters that a large merohant shipping possessed by Japan

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.91)
- 7 -
would constitute a potential military strength, and hence a monace
to the peace of the world. I for one am unable to follow this
line of reasoning. Admittedly a merchant marine is an indispensablo
adjunct to & military power. But a merchant merine alone, withous
armed forces of any kind on land or se& or in the air, can never
concelvably be a potential military menace to the world peace.
xenples abcund tc prove my cese. Did eryore ever seriously main-
tai thet the I etherlands and venmark, weden and Norway, with very
considerable merchant nevies but very smali armed forces, threatened
the pesce anywhere at any time? A wholly unermed Japan with a
sizable merchantmerine,  venture to suonit, ls nc more a me nacd to
the world peace than these maritime natiens ever were or ere now.
The level of the japf lese shippine thus ruscives into e puroly
economic problem, entircly devoid i any military sienificance:
und it is in this light that  have made bula so present my these
oneer vetiene.
TAT LI.TUPE OP LEPHO CP PIGN
1C PrTVh
Another pressine problem, if of lese ultimate gravity,
for the Japarese maritime transportation to that of the decontrol
of rer shippins by oreerly and prceitasive stuges, initially that.
of the return to private hands of shipsine operation.
"vo ane a nel years efter the end o: nostilities, all
Japenese veascls, with inslenificunt exceptions, arc still under
state control and operetion through a government agency that
was created by virtue os e we -time legislation. This ugenoy

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8•
had taken upon itself during the war years inoreasingly larger
shares in the maintenance, manning, and operation of the country'
merohant ships, until towards the end of hostilities shipowners
were reduced to the position of landlords who had completely
turned over the eniire management and operation of their pro-
perty to lessees, receiving fixed rentals barely sufficient
to retain their book-keepers to record the rental receipts.
In this position the shipowners still romain today.
Retention of shipping control in itself would not be strange
in a country whose economy is under ri id controls, nor would
it call for a critical reexamination, were it not for the faot
that the war-begotton system of shipping operation by the state
is rife with waste and ineffisieney. to the detriment of the
vital marine transportation, of whioh the nation is in dire need
at present. It is a sad commentary on human nature that a
bureauoratic state management of any industry is bound to be a
good deal less efficient and less economical than private enter
prise and management. This is true in any place at any time,
and is exautly the case with the ourrent method of running the
Japanese shippine. which at this orucial junoture must bear the
heavy burden of serving. despite its impaired condition. as a
main artery for the economic functionine of the body politic.
Durin the present fiscal year, Japan's merohant marine with
about c70.ooo sross tons of steel ships in active service, out
of the. totul of some 1.350,c00 tons. will carry about 11,000,000
tons of car oes, as against approximately 120.000.000 tons of
goods transported by railways. owing to the poor transportation
capacity of ships, such bulk car oes as coal, lumber, ore, cement,
otc., uaually movin by a ter. are now being carried by rail

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
- 9 -
in large quantities. The disappcinting showing by shipping
is due in a large measure to the inherently infericr charecteristio
of the war-built ships, which acocunt for nearly 7o of the existing
tonnage, and the presence of obsolete type ships of pre-war con-
struction thet represent the remaining Z0%. It is also due to
a considerable extent to the ineificient operatine setup. which
is enoumbered with ponderously over-grown machinery, hopeless red-
tapism, and plagued by divided responsibilities amon supernumerary
employees. comparatively little oan be done to improve the
quality of shipe in active service, but a reat deal can be accom-
plished to better the operatin method, and thereby contribute to
the augmentation of the sorcly needed transportation capacity.
Vessels under stste control and operation are all on "bare-
boat" charter to the  cvernment, and by it let to the ageney of
its oreation, called the ivilian Merohant Marine Committee, to
maintain, man. and operate for the carriage of essential commodi-
ties under the covernment transporiation program. It is in res-
peot of the present system of maintaining, mannint. and running
these ships that careful reviev and reconsideration are badly
needed.
Particularly mischievous and objestionable from every point
of view is the current practice of mannin all the sh ips with
"mixed orens". carried out in the name of the "equelity of
employment opportunities" for seamen, the prastise is to pick up
licensed and unlicensed men at randon in makine up a orew of a
ship. All the membera of crew. from the Master to the merest
cabin boy, might be, and often are, total strangers
one to enother,
and wholly unknown to the owner of the ship who has no part or
voioe in their selection. Let alone for a moment the unenviable

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
- 10 -
position of a. shipowner who must perforce entrust his valuable
property to the custody and care of officers and mon unknown to,
and unoontrolleble by, him.
sprit de corps cannot germinate
and grow on such a shipboard, and co-operation will be conspicuously
lacking, more especially when, es it is too often the case, the
"mixed' crew is partially snifted snd caanged frequently. Small
wonder thet ships ere slov on voyages, delayed at ports, have
more repairs to be done st shipyards, and consume more bunkers and
stores than formerly.
To remedy the intoleraole situation, the first and the most
pressing need is, in the varlence of the inoustry, to alter the
"bare-boat' charters into "time" oharters, by which means the
aforesaid three functions oi maintenance, manning, and operation
of ships will revert to shipowners, whose ousiness they primarily
are; while the state through its agency will retain the necessary
control to assure their employment on suon trades as will fulfill
the transportation requirements of she planned economy. it has
been stated by competent euthorities on shipping proolems that
by this change alone 25, to tC mort caigoet car be ceiried with
the same existins opereble ships, or alternetively 2Ce saving
effected ir the cost of merine transportetion, then the present
method empleyec by the C.Y..C.
Then it is remembered thst a huge expenditure of well over
¥10, coo,coc,cce will be roquireo durine the nent fiscal year if
the present ine ficieney is to be subsidized by the state, and
that Inereased procuction of all commodities is in propect for
the same pericd on the basis of 6,ccc,cco tons of coal to be
mined instead of 3c,occ,occ tons produced in the current fisoal
year, the predicted improvement, either M0% saving in the cost

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.93)
- 11 -
or 25 to 30% inorease in the capacity of maritime transportation,
assumes very substential proportion: indeed it becomes imperative.
Private ownership and private operation of the Japanese
shipping has been publioly announced by SCAP officials as the
ultimate goal and objective of occupation. hat is being here
advocated, therefore, is basically in strict conformity with the
definite Allied policy, the only oper questien being that of
timing end of initial step.  he urgent peccssity of taking
the suggested first sten hes tlreacs buer amply stated in the
preceding paragrann's that I have only one other fact to add to
my presentation.
Inder the eyisting setup, shipovners are huruly able to
meintein, cut of meager revenves from bere-boet cherter hires,
orgenizetions vorthy of the neme or reel n iponners una able to
perform all the multiferi ous fureticns that t ey are supposed to
do in normel times. Yany of then have o lar menaged vo retain
a semblance of suoh orgenizeti ons - tst  meleton pasis-
hoping for an eerly restoretion te h o eens uhat are
primarily end properly theirs.
cuse  ve isis vages end
experses, however, they will not be tble to coltilue the up-hill
fight very much longer.
n other words, walos remetial measure
alon the lires susseste here is tuher p on tiy to make them resumo
thelr oroper work end enr their just krupa, vaey vill pe forced
to teurenon further to a point where the. vil ou lhdcapable of
assumine their proper roles when the geverinent decioes to decontrol
shipping at some incalculable future sate. or orgunizations once
brokem up canret be readily put together ein; nor, as a matter
of feot, is the C.V.M.C. a rich reserve from which to draw talents
necessary for the industry upon decontrol. Verein lies another

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
- 12 -
reason for teking the initial step without delay, preferably
upon the expiration on March bl of the enabling act, a war-time
logislation thrice extended elready.
In support of my stion,  further support be needed at
ell, let me suy that what is now advocuteu is no aifforent from
the practice of most of otmer government corporations in the
fields of distrioution ni foreian trade. Phese public corpora-
tions do exere'ss pcntrol ithin tneir respective spheres: but
they entrust the cctusl wore of corryirs te control out to
business firms, - vholesnlers and retailers in domestie commerce,
and exporters ers irporters ir feieigr taade. he parallel being
perfect, I fail to see eny reascr vry the proposed participation
of shipowners in the opernticn of ships cannot e put into immediate
effect.
It is ar uuceniable fect thst oppos tion exists to any change,
however sme-l, in s inping contiol. t spriree mainly from labor
unions from the esteet undercturcacic cesile to secure their
of
members' jobe. n the face of ineviteole lay-off workers by
the sovernrert tne ino stries, - cuphemistically called administra-
tive refcrm und in dustriel rationslization, - the C.M.M.C. per-
sonnel, both seu und shore, wil: have to realize that the agenoy
cannot long be feuthor-sutaing" them. at any rate, if 2,000
office workers cf the centrol sgeney, and some lc.cce of their
surplus seamer ncu s Pew o then only soml ally on sne pay-roll
of the C.M.M.C. at full pay while otherwise gainfully ocoupied)
lengths of time by government offices or agencies for social wel-
fare, that should not stend in the way of bringing about a marked
improvement in general transportation at this cruoial economic
period.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
-13 -
Finally I wish to reiterate the fact that, while ship-
owners will be essuming a muoh greater part than now in the
handling of ships under the suggested time-charter schome,
they will be bound by the directions of the C.M.M.C. in regard .
to the tredes and cargoes that the ships are to carry. It is
so designed as to combine the desirable features of state con-
trol and private operation, - a plan that is not very dissimilar
to the systes employed by the ar hipping aministration of the
United states in opereting the soverament-onned vessel in war
years with a sigral success.
insofar as vessels in use for repatriation, transportation
and
of goods to end from overseas ports, those enguged in the servioo
of the cccupation forccs ere concernes, the iritial decontrol
must, end will, leeve them untouched. c dirficulties will ariso,
therefore, In conr sction with ships in such special cuployments

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.77)
mes
JA
nottrea!
SAF.
atad
The protlem is revived
in te marhed paagruph.
The ie  Te Mautine
Commeirs in secms to me
e somen. T incmsestent.
Anyuay te batle is betwen
te war DepT t Te USMS
with TRC being dragged
in some on later free
antopennetimate pareproph of
fistenclom).

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.74)
MG
I thurh we mayget
int thus sow soonsor
late, s Ishored
afpociate  r
inemog th pice
Coxsiderabons ravolred.
(This is maing kos grinng)
I hrow Moree ?
Uime very weel and
he is a scnsiba uan-.
I'd higlast talhe t len
informael whenens it
Imigas he appmprace

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
lenet"
DIVISION Cr
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ADTRC
OF THE
CTAMENTSTATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 49
Yokohama Branch,
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohama, Japan. March 23, 1948.
Begen
CONFIDENTIAL
DelR
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Subject: Use of SCAJAP Shipping for Japanes
Foreign Trade
and Relief Shipments
948  26 AM 10 50
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
file
RECEIVED
THE HONORABLE
APR2 1948
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
letter dated May 3, 1947, addressed to the United States
Maritime Commission by its Regional Director at Yokohama
concerning the employment of Japanese Shipping Control Ad-
ministration (SCAJAP) vessels in Japanese trade with foreign
countries and for shipment of GARIOA (Army Relief in Occu-
pied Areas) cargoes, together with a copy of confidential
radio WARX 97574 from the Department of the Army (TCWTSOT
280) to the Commander-in-Chief, Far East, information, Com-
00
800.8870
manding General Eighth Army, and a copy of confidential
6
radio no. 674 of March 16, 1948, to the United States Mari-
4
time Commission, Washington, from its Regional Director at
Yokohama on the same subject.
08
5
The problem set forth in those communications apparent-
ly arises from the Army desire to utilize SCAJAP vessels
33
as fully as possible in Japanese trade in order to curtail
dollar expenditures required for employment of American
2
vessels. According to the Regional Director, the employment
348
of Maritime Commission vessels on loan to SCAJAP is subject
to the concurrence of the Maritime Commission which has not
approved their use in overseas trade, and therefore the
Army plans to employ the Maritime Commission vessels in
Japanese coastal trade in order to free Japanese vessels
for foreign trade. The Regional Director states that under
these conditions it is impossible for American lines and
vessels to compete for cargo that can be carried by SCAJAP
vessels, and that it therefore results in Japanese vessels
resuming foreign trade under non-competitive conditions and
to the detriment of American shipping interests.
The enclosed radio from the Department of the Army, it
is understood, is in reply to a radio with regard to attempts
to arrange space at Manila for shipments from South-East Asia
to Japan. It is enclosed because there is also set forth in
paragraph (C) of Part 2 thereof the position of the Depart-
ment of the Army with regard to giving priority to SCAJAP
vessels for the movement of cargo from abroad.
FIL
The
Seret
CONFIDENTIAL
08

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
Senet
CONEIDENTIA
-2-
The foregoing is transmitted for the Department's in-
formation only.
Respectfully yours,
Alexis Johnson
American Consul General
dated May 3, 1947.
2. Confidentia1 radio WARX
97574.
3. Confidential radio no.
674 of March 16, 1948.
885.9
UAJohnson/im
H
Copy to:
US POLAD, Tokyo.
End
CONFIDENTIAL
Secret
428

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Senet
CONFIDENTIAD
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
49 of March 23, 1948, from
Yokohama, Japan.
Begein sret
UNITED STATES MARITIME COMMISSION
APO 343
CONFIDENTIAL - SECRET
Yokohama, Japan
May 3, 1947
Letter No. W-441
Mr. Huntington T. Morse
Special Assistant to the Commission
U. S. Maritime Commission
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Morse:
This will confirm our message #275 of April 29th to
Mr. Helmbold, copy attached, which was sent in view of immi-
nent developments which wili affect these and other phases
of transportation in and around Japan. Could not communicate
full details as Tokyo's staff study is still in classified
status, but the projected ideas will certainly be very dis-
ruptive of established customs and practices and generally
inimical to the operators of American shipping, even contrary
to national policies possibly, that we feel we must alert you
more fully.
The predominant line of thinking in the highest quarters
in Tokyo today is exactly this with respect to commercial
cargoes:
1st Priority - SCAJAP tonnage American owned and Korean
Baltic Coasters
2nd Priority - SCAJAP shipping Japanese owned
3rd Priority - Army Transport Vessels
4th Priority - Wold Charter Market, New York
5th Priority - Any cut-rate operator
6th Priority - Conference lines
The reason given by Tokyo for the authority or basis for
this line of effort, which disregards all our protests and
advice, is that the War Department have instructed all SCAP
departments to exercise the utmost economy. Whether or not
there still remains proponents for the rehabilitation of Japan-
ese world wide shipping in foreign trade, is difficult to
trace. The fact remains that schemes and plans of all sorts,
some practical, others visionary and fantastic, are emanating
daily from SCAp and unfortunately, being given serious con-
sideration, which strongly point in that direction.
/This
CONFIDENTIAL
Senet

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
Senet
CONFIDENTIAL
Page 2 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 49 of March 23, 1948,
from Yokohama, Japan
This economy in the Army's budget is one thing. When
it is directed to the increase or augmentation of the credit
side of SCAP's Foreign Trade Branch, it would seem to be
another. Tokyo contend that the enormous amount of food-
stuffs being imported for the Japanese, must be balanced by
exports and any other revenue that can be concocted. One
source of revenue is definitely considered to be obtainable
from private or commercial American shipping through rate-
cutting. We contend that the imports and allocations of raw
materials and foodstuffs, is for purposes entirely separate
from commercial transactions, that it is a political gesture
which requires that the Japanese become self-supporting for
high level long range strategic reasons. The balancing of
imports and exports is and will be a physical impossibility
for years to come, in any event there is no sound basis for
reasoning that the two should be considered together.
As and when you are consulted in the matter which may
easily be quite soon, trust you will scrutinize all proposals
very thoroughly and be fully on your guard against plausible
arguments that should not be taken at face values. We can see
no place for considering Japanese domestic economy at the ex-
pense of American and Allied shipping, nor any reason why the
Army, while trying to make the Japanese self-sufficient, ig-
nore principles of sound finance or business.
It occurs to us that if the Army's proposals are as we
believe them to be, they may have to be brought to the cog-
nisance of the Far East Commission and the Department of
State. In any event, the British will doubtless solicit
your support as the Army's plans will affect their coastal
services drastically.
This study when forwarded to the War Department should
precipitate a show-down. It would seem to us a most opportune
time to not only indicate to the Army what they can and cannot
do with respect to commercial and similar cargoes, but to at-
tempt to draw up certain procedures and understandings which
all shipping should recognize and live up to; lines of demarka-
tion of ocean and coastal; conference rights and the innumer-
able problems that will arise from time to time due to traffic
being largely one-way and trade in general still undergoing
growing pains.
Please treat this letter as classified until we advise
you by signal that classification is lifted.
Very truly yours,
R. E. Norris, Captain, USMS
Regional Director
CONFIDENTIAL
Cnd Senet

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
Secret
Begni
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch
No. 49 of March 23, 1948,
from Yokohama, Japan.
EIGHTH ARMY HEADQUARTERS
SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION CENTER
FORM NO. 1 A
PRIORITY - CONFIDENTIAL
MSG CEN NO: O1153
MEANS
: TT
AN-WEW
ACTION: TO (2)
CITE
: WARX 97574
FROM: DA (TCWTSOT 280)
INFO
: G-4
USMC
TO : CINCFE
MG
INFO: CG EIGHTH ARMY
DC/S
REURAD ZX 41554 OF 10 MARCH.
PART 1:
SEE OURAD WCL 376O7 OF 1O MAR REGARD PART 1 REF
RAD.
PART 2:
SEE OURAD WARX 99081 OF 29 MAY REGARD PART 2 REF
RAD.
FUNCTION OF MARITCOM AS COORDINATING AGENCY RECOGNIZED, SAME
FUNCTION IS PERFORMED BY MARITCOM WASH FOR REGULATOR EFFECTIVE-
NESS OF OPERATION.
THIS DOES NOT RPT NOT EXTEND TO PROCUREMENT
OF VESSELS FOR ARMY TO CHARTER. REF WCL 4O962 OF 25 APRIL.
POSSIBILITY MISCONSTRUAL REALIZED. INTENT WAS TO OBTAIN WHEN-
EVER POSSIBLE FULL SHIP LOADS OF CARGO. IT IS DESIRED TO
BRING THESE POINTS TO YOUR ATTN:
(A)
IN WCL 4962 THEATRE IS NOT AUTH TO NEGOTIATE
SHIP CHARTERS ON WORLD MARKET, NOR BY ANY OTHER MEANS.
(B)
 IN WARX 99O81 STATES OCT HAS RESPONSIBILITY TO
SECURE VESSELS FOR LIFT OF ALL CARGO WHEN TRANS CHARGES ARE
PAYABLE FROM GARIOA FUNDS.
(C)
IF SCAJAP SHIPPING IS AVAIL AND APPROPRIATE, IT
SHALL HAVE FIRST PRI FOR USAGE IN MOVEMENT OF SUCH CARGO.
/(D) PER
CONFIDENTIAL
secret

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
Sevet
CONFIDENTIAL
Page 2 of Enclosure No. 2 to
Despatch No. 49 of March 23,
1948, from Yokohama, Japan
(D) PER WCL 45005 AS OUTLINED IN OX 19981. THEATRE
DISCRETION IS TO BE USED FOR UTILIZING SPACE AGREEMENT BE-
TWEEN DEFINED AREAS AT ESTABLISHED RATES WITHOUT RECOURSE
TO WASH. SUCH SHIPMENTS ARE RESTRICTED TO THOSE UNDER SHIP-
LOAD QUANTITY IN INSTANCES WHEN URGENT REQUIREMENT PRECLUDES
COLLECTION OR COMBINING PURCHASES INTO LARGE QUANTITIES OR
SHIPMENT OF SMALL QUANTITIES UNAVOIDABLE.
PART 3. ALL ARMY REQUIREMENTS WILL BE PRESENTED IN THIS
MANNER TO THE SHIPPING INDUSTRY THROUGH A CENTRAL AGENCY.
THE CHIEF OF TRANSPORTATION, FOR MOST ADVANTAGEOUS SHIPPING
ARRANGEMENT.
THE ONLY EXCEPTION IS THAT OUTLINE PARA 20
FOREGOING IS SUBMITTED TO CLARIFY PREVIOUS INSTRUCTIONS WHICH
APPEARED TO CONFLICT.
TRUE T00: 03/130055Z
TOO
: 03/131443Z
TOR
: 03/131708Z
THI
:132330
CONFIDENTIAL
benef

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
serret
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch
No. 49 of March 23, 1948,
from Yokohama, Japan.
March 16, 1948
MARITCOM
MARITCOM WASHINGTON DC
(HEMBOLD DARR MCKENNA)
SIX SEVEN FOUR
MARITOM YOKOHAMA SENDS PD REFER TO DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE CITE WARX NINE SEVEN FIVE SEVEN FOUR TO CINCFE DATED
THIRTEEN MARCH AND IN PARTICULAR PARAGRAPH CHARLIE PART TWO
PD WHERE WE DO NOT KNOW LOCALLY WHAT JURISDICTION MARITIME
COMMISSION HAS OVER JAPANESE OWNED VESSELS AND SCAJAP LSTS
IT IS OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT WITH MARITCOM VESSELS ON LOAN
TO SCAJAP THE TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT OF THESE VESSELS MUST HAVE
OWNERS CONCURRENCE NAMELY MARITCOM PD FEEL THAT OUR INTEREST
IS GREAT AND OUR POSITION SHOULD BE FIRM THAT BY SUPPLEMENT-
ING SCAJAP SHIPPING WITH MARITCOM LIBERTIES AND CHARLIE ONE
MIKE ABLE VICTOR ONES THAT THE LIFTING OF ANY COMMERCIAL
CARGOES BY SCAJAP TONNAGE SHOULD HAVE OUR CONCURRENCE PAREN
THIS OUR NUMBER SIX SEVEN FOUR FROM NORRIS FOR HELMBOLD DARR
MCKENNA MARITCOM WASHINGTON DC PAREN THE RETAINING OF MARIT-
COM SCAJAP TONNAGE IN LOCAL WATERS TO RELEASE JAPANESE OWNED
TONNAGE AND LSTS TO SAIL ABROAD FOR COMMERCE IS IN FACT
USING MARITCOM SCAJAP TONNAGE TO LIFT COMMERCIAL CARGO PD
IN VIEW OF LONG AWAITED ATTRACTIVE CARGOES NOW MATERIALIZING
SUCH AS REPORTED COAL CMA COTTON CMA ORE CMA CEMENT ETC
TRANSACTIONS CMA PROGRAI4 IS FIRM FOR ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
TONS OF SUGAR PHILIPPINES TO JAPAN PD IT IS EXPECTED THAT
AN ATTEMPT AND MOST PROBABLY SUCCESSFUL WILL BE MADE TO LIFT
ALL SUCH CARGOES ON SCAJAP VESSELS PAREN JAPANESE OWNED CMA
NAVY OWNED LST JAPANESE MANNED CMA MARITCOM OWNED LIBERTIES
CONFIDENTIAL
/AND
Senet

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
Senet
LEB 88:020
CONFIDENTIAL
Page 2 of Enclosure No. 3
to Despatch No. 49 of March
23, 1948, from Yokohama, Japan.
AND CHARLIE ONE MIKE ABLE VICTOR ONE JAPANESE MANNED PAREN
EVEN TO KOREA SUPPLEMENTED BY ARMY TIME CHARTER IF NECESSARY
PD BELIEVE THE TIME IS PROPITIOUS TO REQUEST THE RETURN OF
MARITCOM SCAJAP TONNAGE OR SECURE DEPARTMENT OF ARMY AGREE-
MENT TO LEAVE THESE COMMERCIAL CARGOES INCLUDING GARIOA TO
COMMERCIAL CARRIERS PD REFER OUR LETTER MAY THIRD ONE NINE
FOUR SEVEN TO MORSE NUMBER FOUR FOUR ONE PD
EICHELBERGER
End
CONFIDENTIAL
Secet

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFTRMATION AND FILE POR DS
1.9047
UNCLASSIFIED
to tho Dt 
FOREIGN SIRVICE OPERATIONS MEMORANDUM
To:
USPOLAD, TOKYO.
April,448.
From:
Subject: FOREIGN REPRESENTATION: Possible claim for restitution
of the Panamanian ship, ELDORADO.
Reference: Your airgran A-123, November 20, 1947.
894.85/4-248
The Department inforrd the Panamanian Government in the
opening cf December of the sense of your airgram. Attached is
a copy cf an 0% dated March 17, 19l48 from the Embassy at
Panama informing the Department that the Panamanian getion in
China is being instructed to file & claim for the restitution
of the ELDORADO.
S
Enclosure:
(10
From Panama,
March 17, 19148.
CS/H
wns.
12
ong
DS:WJMarx:McC
SD
CPA
NA
3/26/48
140
A
CR
APR 1 1948F
in
1.
UNCLASSIFIED
1-248

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.93)
SmT
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
T - Mr. Norton:
DATE: April 22, 1948
TRC - Wolter A. Radius
FROM :
SUBJECT:
Japanese Merenant Harine
I have aiscusced the problem of the Department's
Files
Central
position on tne guestion of the Japanese merchant
marine with Mir. Hartin end Mr. Wood, as well as
Documant Must Re Roturned
Er. Whitman. I have taken the position that since
the question of the sine of the Japanese merchant
fleet is a matter of vital concern to our shipping
FW 894.85
industry and to the Maritime comission in connection
with its tiede route plans in the construction
progrem, ot some time the views of the Maritime
Commicsior shoula ce sou nt. While it is undoubtedly
true that the veritine Commission will oppose eny
move to increase the Japanese merehant flect or to
increase Japanese shio ildin capacity, nevertneless,
their viows chouln pe sougnt. It was agreed with
35/
Hr. 'cod and ur. Tartin thet since the War Department
has the primary respensivility tor the deve lopment
8
of the Japanese economy, ane since the proposed
2148
changes in the lerel of the fleet and shipbuilaing
capacit. will ve sponsored by the war Department,
that Department shoulo asrume the responsibility of
tahing the ratter u vith the Haritine Cormission.
Mr. Wood satc he would raine this peint in a meeting he
is evine vit. the ver Department on the afternoon
CS/
of April es.
F
Attachament
FW894.85
Memo of 4/21/49
from on re above
L/R
Niee
TRO:WAR:MTB
4.2148

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
SD
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TRC - Mr. W. A. Radius
TO
DATE: April 21, 1948
FROM : OE - Mr. R. H. Vhitman
sUBJECT: Japanese Shipbuilding and Merchent Shipping
894.642
Present U. S. policy (SVNCC 236/43) sets a 1evel of 150,000
gross tons arnuelly for Japanese shipbuilding capacity. This posi-
tion was based on security conciderations which can no longer be
considered valid. The Japanese fleet non-operable or readily
repairable is only 1,300,000. Most of it is inefficient war time
production. Japan needs at least 3,000,000 tons to avoid a net
loss on shipping account. Thus a 300,000 ton capacity figure
which we are now recommending seems easily justified on economic
grounds. Under existing Far Eastern Commission policy, the level
894.85
to be currently fixed would be a ceiling only until the end of the
present phase of the occupation or Oct. 1, 1949, whichever is the
earlier. If, therefore, the level fixed is lower than required
by the Jepanese to meet their minimum peaceful needs, uneconomical
rebuilding of shipbuilding capacity would be required within a
very short period.
Under existing U. S. policy, 100,000 gross tons or more of
Japanese ship ing would become available for reparations on the
2148
basis of the individusl ships' exceeding the size and speed limi-
tations (6000 gross tons and 15 kmots) regardless of the present
size of the Japanese fleet. As in the case of shipbuilding, this
policy was based on security considerations which no longer appear
valid. Janan has urgent current need for all her existing merchant
vessels to assist in the revival of the Japanese economy. We there-
C
fore reconmend that none of the present merchant fleet be made avail-
able for reparation removals.
F
PHDhitma
894.85
DC/R
SEOR
Rev.
4.2148
E:3s:cmb

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
ACTION
is assigned to
No. 313
OF
UNCLASSIFIED
office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
8 1948
Subject: Forwarding Study Regarding JapanseShipping
STATE
55
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
H
3
THEHONOBELE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
FACII
encl. detached
WASHENGTON.
1A08/11/48
bee
I have the honor to enclose copies of a brochure entitled
"Japanese Shipping" prepared by the Japanese Ministry of Foreign
894.85/5-2948
Affairs and published in March of 19l8, concerning the present
condition of Japanese shipping and the necessity for the early
establishment of an ocean-going merchant marine together with an
estimate of requirements.
Takiny the years 1930-1934 as a representative peri, the
A
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates that about 5 perm
cent of Japan's foreign trade tonnage was carried in Japanese
ships plying the world's sea lanes. During this same period, net
receipts from marine transportation almost equaled or exceeded the
deficit in commodity trade created by an excess of imports over -
ports. In addition, the importance of shipping as a coastwise and
FE
inter-island means of communication and transportation is ressed,
the estimate being made that, during these same years, 20,000,000
tons of cargo were carried between Japanese ports. Furthermore,
about one million persons, includin families, depended directly
or indirectly upon the shippin industry for their income.
TRe
As is indicated in the enclosed brochure, Japanese shipping
has dropped rom the peak of 6,329, 000 tons in 1941 (not includ-
OE
ing fishing vessels and special craft such as dredgers and tugs)
ED
to 1,540,000 tons at present, most of which is under the opera-
tional control of a semi-governmental body, the Civilian Merchant
CS/A
Marine Committee. Approximately 66 per cent of the existing ships
DC/R
are of wartime design and are considered to be inefficient and un-
economical by commercial standards, while the remainder have an
average age of 22 years. Internal transportation needs cannot be
met, it is stated, by the 10,000,00) ton per year carrying capaci-
ty of ships now held by Japan. The point is made that,as a re-
sult of the dissolution of the Zaibatsu and the passage of anti-
trust measures following the war, Japanese shipping is entering
upon a new era under new leadership and upon a new basis. Fur-
thermore, in the opinion of the Japanese Yinistry of Foreign Af-
894.85
fairs, the provisions of the Seaman's Law, enacted in 1947, are
even more favorable to the worker than those of the Internation-
al Convention on Haritime Labor.
AUG 16 1948
With
UNCLASSIFIED
15-29

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 313
May 29, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
With respect to the future, the position is taken in the en-
closed study that Japan cannot rely upon foreign ships alone to
carry needed imports, which, it is estimated, will amount to about
32,000,000 freight tons by 1955. The first reason given is that it
would cost too much. y way of illustration, since approximately
20,000,000 tons of such imports will have to be brought from dis-
tant points, it is estimated that freight charges will amount to
about 400,000,000 (on the basis of 20.00 per ton average). This,
taken in conjunction with Japan's prolable excess of imports over
exports, makes even more dim the hope of restoring equilibrium to
Japan's international balance of trade and payments. Furthermore,
to rely solely upon forein bottoms would expose Japan's foreign
trade to interruntion and possible suspension, and would make it
difficult for the country to project effectively or conduct effi-
ciently its foreign trade. As a consequence, the Japanese Minis-
try of Foreign Affairs is of the opinion that Japan will be per-
mitted to ovm and operate such shipping as will permit its foreign
trade to be conducted econonically and free of external interference.
Exclusive of fishin vessels, the estimate is made that Japan
will require a total of 4, 030,000 ross tons, of which 2,870,000
tons represent foreign routes shipping, 870,o00 tons domestic ship-
ping, and 690,000 tons miscellaneous shipping (includes railroad
ferries, dredgers and tugs). The requirement stated envisages car-
o ships of moderate speed and size, not exceeding 10,000 gross
tons, with the exception of a few passenger and cargo ships of
from 2000 to 5000 tons for trade with China and other neighboring
countries. With respect to the extent to which Japanese shipping
should participate in Japan's foreign trade, the Japanese Ministry
of Foreign Affairs is of the opinion that it should be 50 per cent
where the exporting nations are maritine nations, 90 per cent in
the case of Korea and Sakalin, and 8o per cent in the case of all
other non-maritime nations. In this connection, Japan's need for
adequate shipbuilding and repair facilities is pointed out, as well
as the inadequacy of existing shipyards, which, it is stated, would
not suffice for repair work alone. Although recognizing the desir-
ability of attaining an annual shiphuilding capacity of approximate-
ly six per cent of Japan's total tonnage, early realization of such
an objective is not anticipated by the Japanese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
The views of this lission regarding Japan's shipping needs
and the manner in which Japan's merchant marine is being administer-
ed at the present time, will be submitted to the Department for its
consideration upon the completion of a definitive study of those
problems currently in process of preparation.
Respectfully yours,
h.VBecaee.
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosure
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 313
May 29, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
Enclosures:
Five copies brochure
"Japanese Shipping".
Original and ozalid to Department.
mw
885
DMBane/dph
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.94)
DGL
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
ÚNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Amarican Consulate General
UNCLASSIFIED
SEP~1 1948 G.
No. 663
894.85/7-2048
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
REMARKS OF GENERAL MANAGER OF CHINA MERCHANTS
STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY UPON RETURN FROM JAPAN.
2PM 307
FF
5
PD5
PNM
R
wws
has the honor to enclose translation of a news item from
the July 16 issue of Ta Kung Pao, allegedly reporting re-
marks made by Oliver Zi (Hsu Hsueh-yu), General Manager
of the China Merchants Steam Navigation Company, upon his
return from Japan where he reportedly studied Japanese
shipping and represented the interests of his company.
XR
According to the despatch, the Japanese shipbuilding
industry is thriving and Japan's tonnage showing gain.
894.642
Mr. Zi also was reported to have remarked that Chinese
businessmen in Japan are being hampered in their trade
693.9431
relations with that country by the policy of the Chinese
Government.
CS
V
FE
7/ rithong
C0
Enclosure:
ITP
1. Translation of news item from July 16 issue
of Ta Kung Pao.
OFD
TRC
OLA
DEdgar:f
PCR
File No. 800
Original and Hectograph to Dept.
Copy to Nanking
Copy to Tokyo
6
85
LE
SEA171948
VM

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
Enolosure no. 1 to despatch no. 88s
from hanghai, July 80, 1948.
Rocently Japanese fishing boat "Unzan Maru" which/engaged in fishing in
was
Wavers exceeding the Limits set by SSAF ves captured by Chinese Navy. Now
the authorities concerned are investigating end trying the case. Henceforth
any Japanese fishing boat which trespasses on Chinese territorial waters will
be seized end the crew mexbers punished.
*.* *
Oliver Zi on Japanese Shipping
Ta Kung Pao (Iniependont, Political Sojenca Croup). Shanghai
July 16. 1943
of the China Mercharts Steem Navigation Company, who was sent to Tolyo on
July 5 to study Japanese shipping and to take charge of the inauguration of
the Tokyo branch office of the Company;, returned here by plane yesterday
afternoon. He told our reporter the following facts:
1) Japanese shipping: Japan's shipyards have sterted building 28 new
vessels with a total tonnage of more than 5,600 tons for domestic uses.
Japan now possesses 1, 300,000 tons of shipping bottoms and she is continuing
the building of new vessels.
2) Japanese fishery: Japan possesses a large number of fishing boats
which are sufricjent to mect her domestic needs. Hovever, various shipyards
are still busy building now fishing boats which will soon be put to use,
The Government should pay close attention to the trespassing on /territorial
vaters by Japanese fishing boats, and should take effective steps to prevent
them from doing so.
3) Japan's shipping reperations; Though Japan possesses 1, 300,000 tons
of shipping bottoms, yet judging by the present situation, the existing ship-
ping bottoms are still insufficient to meet her needs, so the demand that
Japan should surrender to China 500,000 tons of reparations ships vill not be
easily met with. Honce, it needs greater efforts on the part of the diplomatic
authorities to achieve this end.
4) Ordering of new vessels from Japan: In vien of the present shortage
of passenger boats in China and of the faot that it would take too much time
to order new ships from European and American countries, the China Merchants
Steam Navigation Company has proposed to SCAP orders for four up-to-date
passenger boats with a tonnage of 5, O00 tons each, In principle, SC AP accepte
the proposal but suggested that Hainan iron ores be shipped to Japan in
exchange for new vessels. Therefore, a final decision cannot be made until
after consultations with Premier Wong Wen-hao in this regard.
5) Sino-Japanese trade: Businessmen of various nationalities in Japan
such as those from America and Hongkong have their orm organization. Further-
more, their governments are doing all they can to help their traders. As for
our traders in Japan, they do not have much influence and the Government has
given them very little aid. That is more, the business of the Chinese traders
there has been greatly affected by the debt of US10,000,000 whioh the
Central Trust has owed Japan. Therefore, representatives of Chinese traders
in Japan have asked Zi to carry for them letters to the All-China Federation
of Chambers of Commerce and the Shanghai City Chamber of Commerce, request-
ing them to petition the Government to immediately improve the existing policy
of trade vith Japan so as to help promote the existing trade relations with
that country.
* * *

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
Sino-Japanese Anity Association Sct Up
in Shizuoka
Cheng Yon Pao (Local KMT Orran, Connected with Wu Shao-shu). Shanghai
July 16, 1948
Tokyo, July 15 (Central Nevs. Agency)---It is lcarned that a Sino-Japanese
Amity Association has recently been set up in Shizuoka Prefecture, Nagoya.
Yoshii, who is in charge if the Association, is a Japanese who had resided
in China for many years.
* * *
First Shipnent of Japanese Shark's Fin
to Do Made to China Soon
Yi Shih Pao (Chinese Catholic Orcan), Shanrhai
July 16, 1948
Tokyo, July 15 (Central Nows Agoncy)---Today's English-language paper
"Japan Times" carricd a report that the first shipmont of shark's fin,
amounting to about 350 "tan", will soon bo mado to China.
* * *
Japan to Sell by Tonder All Lands of
Shrines and Tomples
Ta Kung Pao (Indopendont. Political Scionce Group), Shanrhai
July 15, 1948
Tokyo, July 14 (Sast Asia Novs Agoncy)---All lands of Japaneso shrines
and temples originally belonged to the State. Now the Governnent has de-
cided to tako back all these lands and to sell them by tcnder.
* * *
Japanese Terrorists Reported Active
in Drazil
Cheng Yen Pao (Local KMT Organ, Connected with Wu Shao-shu), Shanghai
July 15, 1948
Buenos Aires, July 13 (Contral Noms Agency)---According to information
reccived here, Japanese anti-Ally. terrorists-aro cngaged in cxtonsivo acti-
vities in the St. Paul arcc in tho wostern part of Rio de Janeiro, Drazil.
The other day, Brazilian police raided a certain Japanesc private residence
where they found a school secretly established there.. Through this school,
the Japanese are trying to instill the Japanese children with the idea that
Japan has not been defeated, that she remains powerful and that if another
war breaks out, she vill eventually energe victorious.
*水*

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 456
UNCLASSIFIED
Dur
Subject: Identification and Operation of Japanese
Merchant Vessels.
894.85/7-2248
FE-eue
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
0
five copies each of two instructions from the Coimander
Naval Forces, Far East, to the Minister of Transportation
OE
of the Japanese Government in regard to identifigation
2
E7
and operation of vessels under the supervision of the
DClK
Administrator, Shipping Control Authority for the
Japanese Merchant Marine.
The first of these instructions (serial no. 1778,
June 16, 1948) directs that all Japanese steel vessels
of l00 gross tons or over display a SCAJAP number and
OCD-Que
carry a Certificate of Operation issued by the Commander
Naval Forces, Far East.
1TP
The seoond instruction (serial no. 1782, June 16,
S
07D
1948) grants authority to Japanese vessels to sail within
V
arny
Japanese home waters as defined by SCAPIN 677, January 29,
Mavy
1946 and SCAPIN 841, March 22, 1946, without individual
C10
SCAJAP approval. A vessel is considered to be in an auth-
894.85
worized area if it proceeds by the shortest unrestricted
WT
trout considered safe for navigation between Japanese
E0
94  27 
FACII RA
FILED
5
UN
じE
LJ
DERTE
UNCLASSIFIED
VVL
1948
2

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
UNCLASSIFIED
ports. This instruction formalizes what has been standard
practice for Japanese merchant vessel operations. It does
not apply to vessels engaged in fishing and whaling
operations.
ATVVL
Enclosures:
1. five copies of instruction
no. 1778, June 16, 1948.
2. five copies of instruction
no. 1782, June 16, 1948.
Original and Ozalid to the Department
885
RBFinn:gm

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
Mr.a.B.Fl
COMMANDER NAVAL FORCES, FAR EAST
CNTE/A4-3
Tokyo, Japen
(121AJH;n1)
Ser: 1782
16 June 1948
From:
Commander Naval Forces, Far East.
To:
Minister of Transportation.
Via:
Liaison and Coordination Office, Tokyo.
Subject:
Operation of vessels under the supervision of the
Administrator, SCAJAP.
Enclosures:
(A)
SCAPIN 1393 dated 11 December 1946.
(B)
SCAPIN 677 deted 29 January 1946.
(c)
SCAPIN E41.dabed 23-MarsL1246.
(D)
SCAPIN 1033 dated 22 Jun 1946.
1.
On vovages, extending cutside of Jepanese territorial waters,
all subject vessels re required to carry on board for the duration of each
voyege an authorizatirn from the Administrator, Shipping Control Authority for
the Jepanese Nerchant Narine (SC/JAF), in the form of an arrroved request or
telegraphic orders based upon an approved request in accordance with enclosure
(A).
2.
Japanese vessels are  ranted authcrity to sail within Japanese
home waters, as defined in enclosures (B) and (C), withcut individual SCAJAP
anproval. A vessel wil'  e considered in an authorized area if it is rrocee-
ding by the shortest unr stricted route cons:ered sefe for navigstion between
ports of Jepan as defird in enclosures (B) and (C). Weether or emergencies
will be taken into consideration in case of minor deviations from the shortest
unrestricted route.
3.
All vessuls engaged in repatriction, in additicn to the au-
thorizatien required in peragranh one, must renert cnch sailing to an Allied
Port Authority, who shall advise the Administrator, SCAJiP and ell othor in-
torested hllied comrands y ispetchon the novement of those ships.
4。
All shiopinp must keep clear of restricted cress as prescribed
by Allied authorities.
5.
Vessels enraged in fishing, whling, and similar operetions
bove blanket nutherity to onerate in the area designated in enclosure (D)
without individual auth rization from the Administrator, SCAJAP.
6.
You are directed to pronulgate the inforration co trined
heroin to all other organ zations of the Japanese Governr ent concerned, and
to interested privete agercies and oporators.
/s/ N. W. BARD,
N. W. BARD,
Chief of Staff.
AUT! ENTICATED:
W. L. WILI IA'S,
Flae Socretary.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR PHE ALLIED POWERS
AG O005 (11 Dec 46)GD
APO-500
(SCAPIN 1393)
11 December 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR: IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJECT:
Suppression of Illeral Entry into Japan
5489 (CM), dated 16 October 1946, sutject as above, in which
mention is made of so-callad "permits" allegedly issued by Allied
Forces to varicus vessels.
2. Japanese vessels cn voyages extending outside of Jap-
anese territorial waters are rejuireci to carry on board an'au-
thorization from the Administrator, Naval Shipping Control Au-
thority for Japanese Merchant Marine (SCAJAP) specifically
authorizing such voyage. With this ercention, the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers has authorized the issuance of no
other voyage permits.
3. The United Staves Army Military Governaent in Korea hes
advised the Supreme Comnander for the lliei Powers thit its
Bureau of Marine Transportation is the only agent authorized to
issue permits to vessels, and that the only vessels now in au-
thorized foreign trade by order of tie abovs-mentioned Bureru
cre Baltic Coaster-type cargo vessels and vessels of the Chosen
Steamsnip Company.
FOR THE SUPPEIE COMMANDER:
/s/ R. G. HERSEY
for
JOHN E. COOLEY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQU.RTERS
SUPREME COMVANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 091 (29 Jan 46)GS
APO 500
(SCIPIN - 677)
29 January 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR:
IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT.
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT:
Governmental and Administrative Separation of
Certain Outlying Areas from Japan.
1. The Imperial Japanese Government is directed to cease
exercising, or ttempting to exercise, governmental or edminis-
trative authority over any area outside of Japan, or over any
government officials and employees or any other persons within
such areas.
2. Except as authorized by this Headauarters, the Imperial
Japanese Government will not communicate with government offisials
and employees or with eny other persons outside of Japan for any
purpose other than the routine operetion of authorized shipping,
communications and weather services.
3. For the purpose of this directive, Japan is defined to
include the four main islands of Japan (Hokkaido, Honsnu,
Kyusnu, and Shikoku) and tne approximately 1,O0o smaller adjacent
islands, including the Tsushima Islands and the Ryukyu (Nansei)
Islands north of 300 Nortn Latitude (excluding Kuchinoshima
Island); and excluding (a) Utsuryo (Ullung) Island, Liancourt
Rocks (Take Island) and Juelpart (Saishu or Cheju) Island, (b)
the Ryukyu (Nansei) Islands south of 30° North Latitude (inclu-
ding Kuchinoshima Island), the Izu, Nanpo, Bonin (Ogasawcra) and
Volcano (Kazan or Iwo) Island Groups, and all other outlving
Pecific Islands / including the Daito (Chigashi or Oag ri) Io-
land Group, and Parece Vela (Okino-tori), Marcus (Min n:-tori)
and Ganges (Nakano-tori) Islands/, and (c) the Furile (Chishima)
Islands, the Habomai (Napomaze) Island Group (including Suishc,
Yuri, Akiyuri, Chibotsu and Taraku Islands) and Chikotan Island.
4. Further areas specifically excluded from the govern-
mental and administrative jurisdiction of the Imperial Japanese
Government are the following: (a) all Pacific Islands seized
or occupied under mandate or otherwise by Japan since the be-
ginning of the World War in 1914, (b) Manc uria, Formosa and the
Tescadores, (c) Korea, dnd (d) Karafuto.
5. The definition of Japan contained in this directive
shall also apply to all future directives, memoranda and orders
from this Headquarters unless otherwise specified therein.
6. Nothing in this directive shall be construed as an in-
dication of Allied policy relating to the ultimate determination
of the minor islands referred to in Article 8 of the Potsdam
Declaration.
7. The Imperial Japanese Government will prepare and submit
to this Headquarters a report of all governmental agencies in
Jepan the functions of which pertain to ereas outside of Japan
as defined in this directive. Such report will include a state-
ment of the functions, organization and personnel of each of the
agencies concerned.
8. All records of tne agencies referred to in paragraph 7
above will be preserved and kept available for inspection by this
Headquarters.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDERP

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
ENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 091 (22 Mar 46)GS
APO 500.
(SCAPIN 841)
22 March 1946
MEMORANDUN FOR:
IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT.
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT:
Governmental and Administrative Separetion of
Certain Outlying Areas from Japan.
1. Reference is made to the following:
a. Memorandum to the Japanese Government AG 091 (29 Jen
46)GS (SC PIN 677), subject, "Governmental and Administrative
Separation of Certain Outlying Areas from Japan."
. Memorandum from the Japanese Government C.L.O. No.
918(1.1) of 26 February 1946, subject, "Request for Information
Regarding Status of Izu Islands."
2. Paragraph 3 of reference "a" is nereby amended so
that the Izu Islands and the Nanpo Islands north of cnd including
Lot's Wife (Sofu - Gan) are included within the area defined s
Japan for the purpose of that directive.
3. The Japanese government is hereby directed to resume
governmentel and administrative jurisdiction over these islands,
subject to the authority of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers.
4. Nothing in tnis directive shall be constructed :, in
indication of Allied policy relating to the ulti ate dut mi-
nation of the minor islands referred to in Article 8 of tue
Potsdam Declaration.
FOR THE SUPREME COMNDER:
/s/ B. . FITCH,
Brigedier General, AGD,
Adjutent Generel.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQURTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 800.217 (22 Jun 46)NR
APO 550
(SCAPIN 1033)
22 June 1946
MEMOPANDUM FOR:
I PERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT:
Area Authorized for Japenese Fishing and
"haling.
References:
(a)
FLTLOSCAP serial No. 80 of 27 Sept. 1945.
(b)
SCAJAP serial No. 42 of 13 Oct. 1945.
(c)
 SC..JaP serial No. 587 of 3 Nov. 1945.
1. The provisions of references (a) and (b), and paragraphs
1 and 3 of reference (c) in so far as they relate to cuthorization
of Japanese fishing areas, are rescinded.
2. Effective this date and until further notice Japenese
fishing, whaling and similer operations are euthorized within the
area bounded as follows: From a point midway between Nossapu
Misaki and Kaigara Jima t approximately 43o23' North Iatitude,
145051' East Longitude; to 430 North Latitude, 146030, East
Longitude; thence to 450 North Latitude, 1650 East Longitude;
thence south along 165th Meridian to 24° North Latitude; weat
along the 24th Parallel to 1230 East Longitude; thence north to
26° North Latitude, 123º East Longitude; thence to 32º30: North
Latitude, 125o East Lcngitude; thence to 330 North Latitude,
12704e1 East Longitude; thence to 40º North Latitude, 1350 Eaet
Longitude; to 45030: North Latitude, 1400 East Longitude; thencu
east to 45030' North Latitude, 1450 Est Longitude rounding
Soya Misaki at a distance of three (3) miles from shore; wouth
along 145th Meridian to a point three (3) miles off the coast of
Hokkaido; thence along a line three (3) miles off the coast of
Hokkaido rounding Shiretoko Saki and passing through Nemuro Kaikyo
to the starting point midway between Nosappu Misaki and
Kaigara Jima.
3. Authorization in paragraph 2 above is subject tc the fol-
lowsing provisions:
(a) Japanese vessels will not approach closer than twelve
(12) miles to any island within the authcrized area which lies
scuth of 3oo North Latitude with the exception of Sofu Gan. Per-
sonnel from such vessels will not land on islenas lying south of
30c North Letitude, except Sofu Gan, ner have contact with any
inhabitants thereof.
(b) Japanese vessels or personnel thereof will not ap-
proach closer then twelve (12) miles tc Takeshima (37o15' North
Latitude, 131º53' East Longitude) nor hsve :ny contact with said
island.
4. The present authorizaticn does not establish a precedent
for any further extension cf authorized fishing ereas.
5. The present authorization is not an expression of Alliad
policy relative to ultimate determination of national jurisdicticn
international bcundaries or fishing rights in the area concerned
or in any other area.
FOR THE SUPREME COMM.NDER:
JOHN B. COOLEY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
COMMANDER NAVAL FORCES, FAR EAST
.CNFE/A4-3
Tekyo, Japan
(12:AJHin
Ser: 1778
16 June 1948
From:
Commander Naval Forces, Far East.
To:
Minister of Transportation.
Via:
Liaison and Coordination Office, Tokye.
Subject:
Japanese vessels; assignment of SCAJAP numbers and
issuance of Certificates of Operation.
References:
(a) CNFE serial 595 of 24 July 1946.
(b) CNFE serial 1793 of 12 August 1947.
1.
References (a), and (b) are cancelled.
2.
It is directed that all Japanese steel vessels, of
100 gross tons and over, display a SCAJAP number and carry a
Certificate of Operation issued by Commander Naval Forces, Far
East. This incluues all ex-naval vessels, captured vessels, and
foreign chartered vessels operating in support of the. Japanese
economy. Owners of vessels under construction or other vessels
which have not been previously assigned SCAJAP numbers must
obtain SCAJAP numbers and Certificates of Operation prior to the
initial voyage.
3.
Requests for assignment of SCAJAP numbers and
Certificates of Operation will be surmitted to the Administraeor,
Shipping Control Authority for the Japanese Merchant Marine
through the Civilian Merchant Marine Comrittee.
4.
Assigned SCAJAP numbers will be displayed as follows:
In white block letters four (4) feet higi c
both sides of the hull amidships where spacs
above the water line permits, otherwise as
large as space allows. Each number and letter
will measure two and one-half (2l) feet wide
and six (6) inches brcad. Distance between
numbers and letters will be one (1) foot.
5.
Certificates of Operations will be posted in a con-
spicuous place on the bridge of the vessel.
6.
You are directed to promulgate the information
contained herein to all other organizations of the Japanese
Government concerned, and to interested private operators and
agencies.
/s/ N. W. BARD,
N. W. BARD,
Chief of Staff.
AUTUENTICATED:
wWheelam
W. L. WILLIAMS,
Flag Secretary.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
MORN
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
OCt P5 1948
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPDEPARIMENI OF SIATE
Tolyo, September 9, 1948.
No. 593
ACTION
CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)
is assigned to
TRE
Subject:
Resumption of Responsibility by Japanese Ship-
Ovmers to Crew, Supply, Repair and Maintain
M  27
Privately-Owned Merchant Vessels.
24
THE HONORABIE
SEP
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
xR
WASHINGTON.
894.86
894801
1/
I have the honor to enclose copies of a General Headquarters'
894.85/9-948
press release of September 3, 19l48 regarding the change-over in the
form of control exercised by the Japanese Government over privately-
owned merchant vessels from a bareboat charterage basis to a time
charterage basis whereby individual Japanese shipowners once again
resume responsibility for the manning, supply, maintenance and re-
pair of their ships. There are also enclosed copies of this Head-
quarters' Memorandum of September 2, 1948 to the Japanese Government
(SCAPIN 1931), directing that lovernment to effect the transfer of
responsibilities referred to above.
At the end of the war, privately-owmed merchant vessels were,
and during the past three years have remained, under the control
and operation of the Japanese Government on a bareboat charter
basis whereby the Government assumes all responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the vessels. Under this arrangement,
Japanese shipowners were in the position of landlords receiving
A/MJS
nominal rentals barely sufficient to retain their bookkeepers to
record rental receipts or to maintain organizations capable of per-
forming all the functions of the ship-owning and ship-operating
branches of the industry. Shipowners, as a result,have been re-
DENTIAL FILDOV
duced to financial impotency and their organizations weakened to
the extent that the ultimate recovery of the industry will be both
difficult of achievement and time-consuming.
According to the directive handed to the Japanese Government
by this Headquarters, referred to above, privately-owned merchant
vessels will remain on a time charter basis to the Civilian Mer-
chant Marine Committee (Clac). The latter is an agency of the
Japanese Government created after the surrender to continue the
wartime control and operation of privately-owned vessels on a bare
boat charterage basis, under the supervision and direction of the
Shipping Control Authority of the United States Navy for the Japa
5
nese Merchant Marine (SCAJAP). Under the terms of the directive,
SCAJAP will continue to control the utilization of merchant vessel
specifying
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
specifying assignments and issuing sailing orders.
The change-over, according to the press release, is designed
to introduce the incentive of private operation in order to utilize
more effectively the existing merchant fleet of some 1,367,200
gross tons and to effect budgetary economies. Under the new ar-
rangement, the owmer is paid only while the vessel is operating.
This step has been made possible, it is further stated in the re-
lease, since the purge of shipping executives, dissolution of ship
control associations and Zaibatsu holding companies has now been
completed.
The decision by General Headquarters to effect the change-over
referred to above is predicated upon a staff study of more than a
3/
year ago, dated May 2?, 1947, copies of which are enclosed, pre-
pared by the Civil Transportation Section of this Headquarters
reconmending that such action be taken on the ground that "suffi-
cient incentive for private enterprise must be established to cre-
ate competitive efficiency for the fullest utilization of vessels
in the Japanese Herchant  arine today." Although recommending the
return of Japanese merchant ships to private enterprise, the Civil
Transportation Section has taken the position that certain interim
government controls must be maintained such as the central booking
V
of all cargoes under planned transportation programs and the cen-
tral allocation of all time chartered ships in order to obtain
maximum utilization of bottoms.
In recommending the transition to time charterage, in May of
1947, the staff study pointed out that the operation of merchant
vessels on a bareboat charter basis by the cilC was undesirable
for the following reasons:
"a.
Poor government control and operation of vessels.
b.
There is no incentive for efficient operation.
C.
The organization is large and unwieldy.
d.
Steamship operators are idly standing by trying to
hold organizations together for the day when they
can again operate their own vessels.
e.
With the exception of a few directors, the best
skill of the industry is not vested in the present
CIC.
f.
There is no competition."
It is visualized by the Civil Transportation Section that the CiMC
eventually will be dissolved and its records transferred to the
General Maritime Eureau of the Japanese linistry of Transportation.
It is of interest to note that at the time the Civil Transporta-
tion Section prepared its recommendations on the decontrol of the
Japanese merchant marine, their findings indicated that the private
shipping companies were in difficult financial straits, and that the
return to private operation would require a "phased de-control" due
to the weakened position of the shipping companies. Continuation
of some forn of subsidy would be required, it was pointed out, in
order to adjust marine shipping rates more nearly in accord with
operating and construction costs, rail rates, and current price
levels.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
levels. In this connection, it is of interest to note that at the time
of the June 30, 1948 revision of the marine freight rates by the C1MC,
which resulted in approximately a three-fold advance in then existent
rates for vessels of 8oo gross tons and over, it was estimated by that
organization that its deficit to be met by outlay from the National
treasury under the current budget would be reduced from approximately
ten billion yen to four billion yen. Even with the aforementioned in-
crease in rates and the cl ange fron Citc to private operational control,
in view of the weakened condition of privately-owmed shipping companies,
this lission is of the opinion that the continuation of some form of
tovernment subsidy will be required until such time as the shipping com-
panies are in a position to pay their om way.
With respect to ship  ersonnel, he press release states that the
shipowners may now say who shall work on their ships. However, we be-
lieve that this statement should he Talified to the extent that the
position and strength of the maritine union should not be overlooked.
In this conneetion, the above-mentioned staff study points out that
when the transition is made from Cmc to private enterprise, labor diffi-
culties will be encountered since the number of employees both at sea
and ashore is far in excess of requirements for the existing fleet.
Hence, the "disposition of this surplus personnel must be made without
incitin labor unrest or overburdening the shipowmers who cannot afford
to carry such surplus on co pany payrolls in their present financial
condition." The recommendation is made in the staff study that as soon
as decontrol is initiated, a 15 per cent surplus of seamen and officers
should be allowed each company, the balance being: transferred to the
rolls of the Ceneral Yaritime Pureau for ultimate disposition. The
Civil Transportation Sect ion has taken the position in this regard that
it considers inadvisahle the allocation of surplus seamen to the various
companies and the "waterin" of time charter rates to cover them.
In the opinion f this Yission it is too early as yet to determine
what effect the Japanese Mariners' Law (effective September 1, 1947),
14/
copies of whieh are enclosed, will have upon private shipping costs. To
mention lut a few of the orovisions, the Law provides for an 8-hour day,
48-hour week at sea for officers and ratings in the deck and en gine room
departments whose time is not divided into watches. Nor can a mariner
under 18 years of age or a female mariner do any work between 8 p.m. and
5 a.m. Provision has been made for overtime pay. To date this has pre-
sented no problem because of the large crews carried by merchant ships
(average surplus carried is estimated at 20 per cent). Furthermore, the
act states that every mariner is entitled to 25 days off with pay after
every year of continuous service plus 5 additional days for every addi-
tional three months of continuous service. However, seamen on coastwise
ships trading exclusively hetween domestic ports are entitled to 12 paid
days off in a year, and two additional days for every three months over
one year. Although the standards set by the ariners' Law may be con-
sidered as a desirable objeetive, we doult whether the Japanese Shipping
industry can now or in the near futur support a labor standard as high
as that established unless heavily subsidized.
It is also of interest to note that in its decontrol recommendation,
one qualification was injected by the Civil Transportation Section.
Prior to the returm of ships to private operators sereening in accord-
ance vith purge directives sho ld be completed, all control authority
and restraint on trade by associations should be removed, and the reor-
ganization plans of all restricted companies approved by General Head-
quarters; otherwise, the Civil Transportation
Section
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Transportation Section would be placed in an embarrassing position.
As indicated in the enclosed press release, these requirements have
been met, since the purge of shipping executives, dissolution of
ship control associations and Zaibatsu holding companies has now
been completed.
In regard to the above, officers of this Mission have had
recent conversations with members of the now "dissolved" (but quite
active) Japanese Shipowmers' Association and have found that their
views and those of the Civil Transportation Section in this regard
51
are markelly similar. There is enclosed a copy of a statement sub-
mitted hy the president of that Association to the Civil Transporta-
tion Seation in January of this year which represents, it is believed,
an accurate summary of the Association's position. In brief, the
Association is of the opinion that the operating efficiency of the
existing merchant marine must be increased, and this in turn can
best be accomplished by allowing the shipowmers to play a larger role
in the operation of morchant shipping. As a consequence of increased
operating efficiency, needed ludgetary economies can be effected. In
addition, the Assoeiation la's stress on the establishment of real-
istic marine freight rates and the ultimate elimination of government
subsidies. Pinally, te point is made that the very existence of
private compani is threatened unless they are permitted to resume
the oporation of their ships at an early date.
e a in accord w. the decision of this Headquarters to re-
move from uovernnent control the responsibility for the manning,
supply, maintenance, and actual operation of privately-owmed merchant
ships. It ir to le regretted, however, that almost a year and a half
has clapsed between the time t'at the appropriate staff section recom-
mended that this step re taken and the actual issuance of the direc-
tive to the Japanese Government. Independent investigation by offi-
cers ef this 'ission leads to the conelusion that the situation out-
lined in the original staff study of the Civil Transportation Section
has only worsened since that date and that it is of utmost importance
that Japan's private shipping industry be given an opportunity for
survival. As has been indicated above, overnment control exercised
through the medium of cias for the past three years has been ineffi-
cient in effect a welfare program in part--and has resulted in the
near extinetior of private shipping companies in terms of finance,
organization, ani skill. We believe it to be axiomatic that if the
Japanese economy is once again to s tand upon its owm feet, govern-
ment control at the operational level must be eliminated wherever
18
possible. The shipping industry is illustrative of this principle.
Respectfully yours,
ecaee.
T. J. Sebald.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
-5-
CONFIDENTIAL
1.
Copy of SCAP Press Release
regarding Japanese Shipping
dated September 2, 1948.
2.
Five Copies of SCAP Memorandum
for the Japanese Government
(SCAPIN 1931) dated September 2,
1948.
3.
Copy of Staff Study of SCAP
Civil Transportation Section
dated May 22, 1947.
4.
Four Copies of Japanese
Mariners' Law (effective
September 1, 1947).
5.
Copy of Statement of President,
Japanese Shipowners' Association,
Inc. dated January 28, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department
885
DMBane:mis
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
593 dated September 9, 1948 from
the Office of the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject:
"Resumption of Responsibility by
Japanese Shipowners to Crew, Supply,
Repair and Maintain Privately-Owmed
Merchant Vessels.
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
PAR EAST COLLLAND
Public Information Office
1630
Press Release:
2 September 1948
SCAP AUTHORIZED LIHITED PRIVATE OPERATION OF JAPANESE SHIPPING
Today, on the thiri anniversary of the surrender a directive
handed to the Japanese Bovernnent marked another milestone of prog-
ress in the transfer hack to private industry of responsibilities
assumed by the Government in time of war. The latest directive to
the Japanese hovernment permits shipovmers to again have a voice in
the operation of their own vessels.
As war in dapan pre ressed, shipouners were forced to relin-
quish progressively their rights to operate and husband their own
vessels. In 19h? the Japanese tovernment took over the manning of
ships and in Hovember 19hlt the repair and supplying of ships was
likewise transferred. Finally, in Hay 1945, through the Shipping
Control Association, the last vestige of industry operation was
lost when the Government assumed complete control over utilization
of all vessels.
According to SCAP's ivil Transportation Section, the directive
released this date, returns to the shipovmers, for the first time in
six years, the right to say who shall work on the ships and how re-
pairs shall be effected. Under the directive, the manning, supply-
ing, maintenance and repair of privately owned vessels, once more
become the responsibility of the individual shipowmer. The vessels
remain on a time charter basis to the Japanese Civilian Herchant
Larine Committee. Hovever, control of ve sel utilization, includ-
ing specifying vessel assignment and issuance of sailing orders,
remains with Occupation Porees through the Administrator Shipping
Control. Authority for Japan (SCAJAP).
The changes initiated are designed to introduce the incentive
of private operation of merchant vessels in order to more effi-
ciently utilize the xisting fl et for the benefit of the national
economy and to effect economies in the Japanese Fudget. The intro-
duction of private incentive will more fully utilize the skills and
capabilities of the shippin: industry and should increase the lift-
ing capacity of the fleet.
Only after the removal of concentrated econonic power as re-
quired by the Potsdam Declaration was the transfer of limited respon-
sibility to private owners possible. The purge of shipping execu-
tives, dissolution of Zaibatsu holding companies with subsequent
transfer of shares to the Japanese liquidation agency have now been
completed.
The directive
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo:s No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
The directive requires a change in the contractual arrangement
between the Japanese Government and the shipowmers. At the present
time, vessels are controlled by the Japanese Government on a bare
hoat charterage basis whereby the Government assumes all responsi-
bility for operation and maintenance of the vessel. By this arrange-
ment a nominal fee is paid the owner regardless of whether or not
his vessel is operating. The new time charterage arrangement for
carg vessels places on the owner the responsibility to crew, repair
and maintain the vessel and the owmer is paid only while the vessel
is operating. Each individual shipowner, therefore, has an incentive
to keep his ship in operating condition.
Miscellaneous ves els, fishing vessels, passenger ferries, and
vessels engaged in dredgin end similar special services, will be
under the full operational control of respective private owners.
Public vessels will be under the operationa control of respective
Japanese Ministries havin: jurisdiction.
Transferred back to private operations are limited responsi-
bilities for manning and repairing over 915 vessels of 1,367,200
gross tons. This is but a sad remnant of the once proud fleet of
2,71l: vessels of 6,327,000 ross tons which once made Japan the 3rd
'aritime Mation of the World. Japanes losses during the war of
3,129 vessels of 8,830,000 ross tons, attests the effectiveness
of Allied action against a common enemy.
Upon surrender, the Japanese Merchant Fleet was confined to
operations within the home waters. During the month of Oct. 1945,
a repatriation program returning Japanese citizens to Japan from
Far East areas was inaugurated in fulfillment of the Potsdam Decla-
ration. This proram is substantially completed, but a small per-
centage of the present lerchant Fleet is still utilized in this task.
Initially, vessels employed on repatriation constituted the
only Japanese-owned ships permitted to sail outside Japan. With the
introduction of the forein trade program, limited utilization of
Japanese-owned vessels was authorized. In each case where Japanese-
orned vessels proceed under SCAP authority beyond the boundaries of
the Ja anese home waters, they sail under a special flag, desig-
nated by the Supreme Commander or the Allied Powers. Return of
the Japanese flag to the high seas is a matter to be settled in the
Peace Treaty.
-0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL IEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 544 ( 27 Jul 48 )CTS
2 September 1948
SCAPIN 1931
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNLENT
SUBJECT:
Japanose Merchant Shipping
1. References:
a. SCAPIN 256 of 9 November 1945, file AG 334, subject,
"Appointment of Civilian Merchant Marine Committee."
b. SCAPIN 1828 of 26 November 1947, file AG 545. subject. "Sale
or Charter of Japanese Merchant Vessels."
c. Commande: Naval Forces, Far East serial letter 1778 of 16 June
1948, file CNFE/A4-3, subject, "Japanese vessels; assignment of SCAJAP
number and issuance of Certificates of Operation."
d. Commander Naval Forces. Far East serial lotter 1782 of 16 June
1948, file CNFE/A4-3, subject, "Operation of Vessels under the Supervision
of the Administrator, SCAJAP."
2. This directive does. not modify or supersede references in paragraph
1. nor shall it be interpreted as changing existing policy previously
announoed as follows:
a. All vessels assigned to repatriation will be retained in that
service under the operational and administrative control of the Administrator,
Shipping Control Luthority/Tapanese Merchant Marine (SCAJAP). through
Civilian Merchant Marine Committee.
b. The assignment of merchant vessels and present booking pro-
cedures now in effect shall continue as heretofore.
3. In order to increase the utilization of Japanese merchant.fleet,
the following revisions in procedures will be effected by the Japanese
Government:.
a. The Japanese Government through its Ministries and various
agencies will exercise operational control of all vessels to which complete
title is held by the Japanese Government, designed and engaged exclusively
in the following special services of the Government: fishery patrol, fishery
research, fishery training, cable layers, weather service, training, sewage,
tugs, salvage, dredger, ice-breaker, and police patrol. Expansion of the se
categories shall be subject to prior approval of Commander Naval Forces,
Far East. This operational control vill include manning, supply, and
0

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 544 ( 27 Ju1 48 )CTS. SCAPIN 1931
husbandry of the vessels. The Ministry of Transportation will be re-
sponsible for reporting any change in charter, characteristics, title,
and operational status of these vessels in accordance with requirements
set forth in referencelb.
b. Respective private o:mers will operate all vessels designed
and engaged exclusively in the following special services: salvage, tug.
dredger, sewage, hopper, barge, passengor ferry, utility, flcating crane
and floating dock. Expansion of these categories shall be subject to prior
approval of Commander Naval Forces, Far East. The Master or Owner will be
responsible for reporting any change in charter, characteristics, title
and operational status of these vessels to the Ministry of Transportation.
c. Respective private owners, under the immediate supervision
of the Fisheries gency, Ministry of griculture and Forestry, may operate
all vessels over lo0 gross tons employed exclusively in fishing and whaling
service. The Director, Bureau of Fisheries shall report any change in the
charter, title or operational status to the Ministry of Transportation.
d. The Civilian Merchant Marine Committee will employ on a time
charter basis under the direction of the Administrator, SCiJiP, all steel
vessels over lo0 gross tons not mentionod in sub-paragraphs3a through c
above.
e. Through the Civilian Merchant Marine Committee, vessels re-
ferred to in sub-paragraphs3a, b. c and d above will be subject to the ad-
ministrative control of the Administrator, SCAJAP.
f. The Ministry of Transportation will collect, compile and
submit such reports as may be required.
4. Revisions listed above have been prepared with a view to:
a. Providing for the most efficient means of vessel operation.
b. Giving full benefit to the national economy.
c. More fully utilizing the skills and capabilities of the
shipping industry.
d. Increasing the lifting capacity of the present fleet.
e. Reducing the deficit in Japanese Government operation.
5. To permit orderly and gradual return of operating responsibilities
for Japanese merchant fleet and miscellaneous craft to normal channels as
outlined above, direct communication in implementation thereof is authorized
2

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.95)
AG 544 ( 27 Ju1 48 )CTS, SCAFIN 1931
between Civil Transportation Section, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, Commander Naval Forces, Far East,
(Administrator, Shipping Control Authority Japanese Merchant Marine)
and the Japanese Government.
FOR THE SUPREME. COMMANDER:
Amlauy
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General:
3

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No.
593 dated September 9, 1948 from
the Office of the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Resumption of Responsibility by
Japanese Shipowners to Crew, Supply,
Repair andMaintain Privately-Owned
Merchant Vessels."
(COPY)
STAFF STUDY
Return of Japanese Merchant
Marine to private operation
by phased de-control from
government operation.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CIVIL TRANSPORTATION SECTION.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.
Problem.
1
II.
Factors Bearing on the Problem.
1
III.
Assumptions.
2
IV.
Discussion:
(1)
General.
34
(2)
Labor.
(3)
Shipping Associations.
7
(4)
Restricted Concerns and Holding Companies..
8
(5)
Shipping Industry Personnel Purge...
9
(6)
Civilian Merchant Marine Committee (CMC)..
11
(7)
Methods of De-Control of Ships..
12
(a)
First Phase.
13
(b)
Second Phase.
1山
(c)
Third Phase.
1山
(d)
Fourth Phase.
15
V.
Conclusions.
15
VI.
Recommendation.
16
Appendix I
Appendix II
Appendix III

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 593
September 9, 1948
-2-
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED PONERS
CIVIL TRANSPORATION SECTION
APO 500
22 May 1947
STAFF STUDY
SUBJECT:
Return of Japanese Merchant Marine to private
Operation by phased-de-control from government
operation.
I. PROBLEM
1.
To remove government controls insofar as possible and
return Japanese Merchant ships to private enterprise. Such de-
Control to be carried out with the minimum interruption to the
industry. Sufficient incentive for private enterprise must be
established to create competitive efficiency for the fullestuti-
lization of vessels in Japanese Merchant Marine today.
II. FAGTORS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1.
Continuation of some form of subsidy is required as
marine shipping rates are not in proper adjustment to:
a.
Current price levels
b.
Rail rates
C.
Cost of shipping operation
d.
Cost of construction
2.
Financial position of private shipping companies is in
a choatic condition due to:
a.
War losses
b.
Cancellation of war indemnities
C.
Blocked accounts
d.
High cost and inferiority of war-built ships
3.
Steamship companies will require a phased de-control
due to their present weakened condition created by:
a.
Purge of shipping leaders.
b.
Liquidation of holding companies.
C.
Re-organization of restricted Zaibatsu concerns
and their subsidiaries.
d.
Release of shipping companies from "association
control" which completely dominated their companies.
e.
Inactivity of employees due to government control
and operation of vessels during the past few years.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNC LASSIFIED
-3-
(COPY)
-2-
4. A transition of ship personnel must be made from the
present government Civilian Merchant Marine Committee (CMMC) to
the operators. This presents a serious problem as the number
of employees both at sea and ashore is far in excess of require-
ments for the existing fleet. Disposition of this surplus per-
sonnel must be made without inciting labor unrest or overburden-
ing the shipowners who cannot afford to carry such surplus on
company payrolls in their present financial condition.
5.
The present CMC operation is undersirable and should
be dissolved by phases because:
a.
Poor government control and operation of vessels.
b.
There is no incentive for efficient operation.
C.
The organization is large and unwieldy.
d.
Steamship operators are idly standing by trying
to hold organizations together for the day when
they can again operate their own vessels.
e.
With the exception of a few directors, the best
skill of the industry is not vested in the
present CIMC.
f.
There is no competition.
6.
Certain controls by the government must be kept for an
additional interim period because:
a.
Present economic conditions in Japan require
central booking and allocation of vessels to
lift cargoes necessary for the public welfare
regardless of whether such cargo is "good" or
"poor" cargo from a shipping viewpoint.
b.
Central allocation of vessels to obtain maximum
utilization of bottoms and prevent ships sailing
light due to excess tonnage in favored routes.
C.
Control of repair priority must be entralized.
d.
A central government agency to carry out the
instructions of Occupation Forces and duties
assigned in connection with the Occupation.
III. ASSUMPTIONS
That due to past controls exercised in restraint of
trade and control of competition by Saibatsu holding companies,
shipping

=== Page 179 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1943
UNCLASSIFIED
-4-
(COPY)
-3-
shipping associations, interlocking companies, and other mono-
polistic enterprises, the "big fellows" will follow the regular
pattern of trying to create some form of control in order that
they can still dominate the industry.
Every effort will be made by the industry to devise
means of obtaining maximum government financial assistance above
actual needs. The Japanese will endeavor to establish their claim
that vessels can be expected to operate just eight months out of
twelve based upon present percentage of the fleet constantly under
repairs and that charter fee should be sufficient to cover such
idle periods.
3.
In re-organizing, an effort will be made to eliminate
all companies not now in possession of ships "in being" and to
amalgamate as many shipping firms as possible into dominating
companies or organizations.
4. An effort will be made to retain for potential future
shipping all surplus seamen not actually employed in vessels.
Compensation for such seamen to be paid by the company initial-
ly but final collection to be made from government funds.
It is visualized that the ClaC will shrink in ratio
to our phased de-control until eventually it will be completely
dissolved and the records transferred to the General Maritime
Bureau (Min. of Transportation).
IV.DISCUSSION
GENERAL
1. By various SCAP directives, the Japanese shipping
industry has been instructed to make certain changes in com-
panies and in the shipping associations. Up to the present
time, most of these companies have made only a token attempt
to comply with such directives. In order to protect Civil
Transportation Section and other SCAP sections, it is felt that
vessels should not be returned to any shipping company for op-
eration under the interim plan until the company has cleaned
up and purified itself in accordance with instructions already
issued.
2. Before any ships are returned to a company, it is
deemed necessary that the following three steps in the order
listed should first be aosomplished:
a.
Screening by Imperial Japanese Government and re-
view by Government Section, GHQ, SCAP of all
persons in the shipping falling under the purge
memorandum.
b. Removal

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1943
UNCLASSIFIED
-5-
(COPY)
-4-
b.
Removal of all "control" authority and restraint
on trade by associations. New articles to be
submitted to Anti-Cartels Branch/ESS to confirm
that there is not objection by that branch of
such articles. Articles then to be registered
with the Japanese Government.
C.
The submitting of plans for re-organization of
each restricted company and the approval of such
plans by SCAP (ESS/AC).
3.
If vessels are returned to interim private operation
before the above is accomplished, we will be placed in the embar-
rassing position of reestablishing the shipping industry before
the terms of the Potsdam Declaration have been fulfilled. In
other words, we would be rebuilding with government funds on the
same structure that was condemned by the Allies and which other
SCAP sections are obligated to destroy.
LABOR
This will probably prove to be the most vexing problem
to be handled in connection with de-control of shipping. All em-
ployees are organized into unions and a wholesale unemployment pro-
spect will draw immediate reaction. This has been indicated clear-
ly in past dealings with the industry in Japan.
Personnel effected falls into two groups; men manning
ships and personnel ashore in C1C. As of 1 April 1947, the fol-
lowing was the status of ship personnel employed by CMiC.
ON BOARD
SURPLUS
TOTAL
OFFICERS......
8,029
6,672
14,701
CREW.
22,261
6,871
29,132
TOTAL...
30,290
13,548
43,833
In addition to the above, the CMMC shore staff totals
approximately 3,272.
Of the above ship personnel, 2,860 officers and 6,472
crew are employed on 181 U. S. ships either under SCAJAP or for
occupation forces. To break this down further, tabulation is
as follows:
OFFICERS
CREW
SCAJAP U.S. SHIPS......
2,590
5,905
U. S. OCC. FRCS.
270
567
Total.
2,860
6,472.
3. The

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
Enc1. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-6-
(COPY)
-5-
3.
The large number of seamen on the CMMC rolls came
into being when SCJAP started its recruitment program to man
U. S. Liberty ships and LSTs. As these vessels are being re-
turned to the U. S. , surplus officers and crew increases in
ratio. The Ministry of Transportation advises that 3,66o .
men are at this time enrolled in schools in an effort to re-
educate them for other works. The balance of the surplus is
either in a stand-by status or simply unemployed but receiv-
ing monthly pay from CMMC.
4. It is considered inadvisable to accept Japanese
proposals of allocating these surplus men to the various ship-
ping companies to be carried on their payrolls in a surplus
status and to have time charter rates increased to cover.
The watering" of charter rates is not considered a clean
way of starting out on our interim plan.
control, 15 percent surplus of seamen and officers be allow-
ed each company. The balance to be transferred to the rolls
of General Maritime Bureau for ultimate disposition by the
Re-employment Committee.
6. It is further preposed in order to take care of the
seamen that a central committee in Tokyo with branches in the
same divisions as each local Maritime Office shall be formed
with the following representation:
1 Representative - Shipowners
1 Representative - General Maritime Bureau
1 Representative - Seamen's Union
Each seamen not employed on a vessel and not classified in a
stand-by status by his company would then be required to
report periodically to the "RE-EMPLOYMENT COMMITTEE". If
this seaman was placed by the committee in employment for
which he was qualified and which was connected with his trade,
he would then cease to receive unemployment pay. If not em-
ployed, he may also be assigned to a re-training school or
re-education school. If there was neither employment nor
school assignment, he would then receive from the General
Maritime Bureau representative his unemployment compensation.
(In working out any such plan it is imperative that the union
be taken into the picture at an imperative that the union be
taken into the picture at an early stage in order that the
men will feel they had a hand in the creating of the committee.
To have them work with the shipowners and government from the
beginning will prove to be a great advantage and its value can-
not be overlooked.)
7. The

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
Enc1. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9,1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-7-
(COPY)
* 6 -
7.The Ministry of Transportation should establish certain
requirements for seamen. At the present time this is done by the
indiridual companies. Each man should be re-examined in accordance
with such set requirements. Men who were brought into the industry
as a result of the SCAJAP program and who are not fully qualified
in this work (that were only temporary) could be given a retirement
fee of say three months in accordance with Japanese custom. There
are many of these seamen who are extremely young (children who will
not reach 15 years of age for sometime) and who made a very limited
number of trips but who now enjoy full time pay while they are in an
unemployed status. In like manner all unemployed seamen could be
screened. The Committee should have close liaison with the Welfare
Ministry and as each man is screened and found ineligible for re-
tention due to lack of qualifications, his name should be trans-
ferred to that Ministry. It is our understanding that the Welfare
Ministry conducts a series of trade schools for the education of
Japanese. Although the men will not receive additional pay while
attending such a Welfare school, at the same time there is no cost
for the courses of education.
8. It is also believed that such a screening program would
bring to light a large number of men who are not now working at,
but who are employed, at the same time receiving seamen's wages.
9. In addition to the surplus now on shore, we are advised
by both the Ministry of Transportation and the CMMC that all vessels
are overmanned by approximately 20 percent. Until such time as we
work out a definite level for shipping and can estimate the number
of men required to man such ships, it is considered advisable to
keep this surplus on board these vessels.
10. The Ministry of Transportation and the CMC are in the
process of screening seamen not actively employed on board ships.
(To accomplish this, they have sent out field teams to get in
touch with these seamen and to determine if they desire to continue
following the sea. In the event they do not so desire, they are
being dropped from the payroll now handled by CMC. A number of
resignations have been submitted, approximately 1,000 per month.
Teams are expected to return to Tokyo with completed reports in
the next two weeks, at which time a recount will be made of the
actual surplus now existing).
1l. In connection with the CMMC shore staff a survey is
now under way to determine what percentage had affiliation with
shipping companies prior to employment with CMMC as it is believed
they can be returned to private industry as de-control is affected.
12. Under

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-8-
(COPY)
-7-
12. Under any circumstance, surplus employees both ashore
and afloat are a responsibility and a solution must be found for
their disposition.
13. There are two laws which have recently passed the Diet
affecting the Maritime industry as follows:
a.
Labor Standards Law
b.
Mariners Law.
These laws are designed to establish basic labor standards. The
second is based upon the first. Both have been passed, but as of
this date, neither of the laws had been implemented by necessary
regulations issued under the responsible ministry. Labor Division
ESS advise they are watching closely the implementation of these
laws to insure compliance with over-all labor policy outlined by
SCAP.
SHIPPING ASSOCIATIONS
with the shipping industry, listed below are the principle associa-
tions which control. We are now cooperating with ESS/Anti-trust
Cartels to see that all controlling and restraining features of
these organizations are removed:
a.
Japan Shipowners Assn.
b.
Japan Ship Stores Supply Co.
C。
The Ship Builders Assn.
d.
The Japan Wooden Shipbuilder Joint Assn.
e.
The Ship Parts Makers Joint Assn.
f.
Federation of Auxiliary Vessel Transp. Assn.
g.
Japan Coastal Shipping Assn.
h.
The Coastal Tankers Assn.
i.
Japan Tankers Assn.
j.
A-Class Shipping Brokers Control Assn.
k.
B-Class Shipping Brokers Control Assn.
1.
Japan Harbor Transport Central Assn.
m.
Harbor Transport Co. (Koun Kaisha) Stevedore Assn.
n.
Coastwise Stevedore Assn.
O.
Marine Insurance Assn.
In addition to the above, the Labor Division/ESS is making a special
investigation of the Seaman's Fund Foundation (sometimes called the
Seaman's Union Welfare Assn.)
2.
There have been two SCAPINS issued in connection with
associations in Japan, i. e., SCAPIN 1108, AG 080 (6 Aug 46) ESS/AC
"Dissolution of Control Agencies" and SCAPIN 1394, AG 400 (11 Dec 46)
ESS/AC Methods of Control under Temporary Demand and Supply Ad-
justment Bill" thereto dated 1 April 1947.
3. Law

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-9-
(COPY)
-8-
3. Law No. 32, the first law which the Japanese passed in
compliance with SCAPIN 1l08 re-established exactly the same control
and restraint on trade. They changed the wording, but had the same
meaning. This was corrected by amendment dated 1 April 1947.
These is attached to this study a copy of the Articles
of the Japan Shipowners Association with a broad breakdown of the
voting power exercised by Zaibatsu interests based on the number of
vessels they owned. This does not reflect possible charter parties
which they surely had. Such chartered tonnage would have increased
voting power in ratio to tonnage.
RESTRICTED CONCERNS AND HOLDING COMPANIES
1.
Briefly, the following SCAPINS have been issued in con-
nection with restricted concerns and their liquidation or re-organi-
zation:
SCAPIN
177
599
998
215
625
1053
403
767
1238
408
981
1250
2.
The following Japanese laws have been passed under the
suprevision of SCAP in connection with reorganization and monopo-
lies:
a.
Japanese Law No. 40, "The Enterprise Reconstruction
and Reorganization Law". Passed November 1946.
b.
Imperial Ordinance No. 50l, "Enforcement Ordinance for
the Enterprise Reconstruction and reorganization Law"
C.
Anti-Trust Law. Passed Diet 31 March 1947.
3.
In discussion with ESS/Zaibatsu and Liq. Eranches, the
following has been developed:
a.
Zaibatsu parent shipping companies when reorganizing
will not be permitted to use the same company name.
b.
Company officials other than purgees, may hold posi-
tions in the new companies.
C.
The "big three" (NYK, OSK and Yamashita) have turned
over their stock to the Holding Company Liquidation
Commission and are being dissolved. The voting rights
of the above companies in their subsidiaries have also
been transferred when the stock they held went to the
Liquidation Commission.
d.
Employees of a restricted concern may transfer to a
reorganized company "en bloc".
e.
Subsidiaries reorganized as independent companies will
not be permitted to have unrelated subsidiaries.
f. At this

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-10-
(COPY)
-9-
f.
At this time it may be possible for several subsidiary
restricted concerns to merge, but this is still undecid-
ed. However, it does not seem advisable that such merg-
ings prior to establishment of our interim program be
permitted. In other words,we can use existing subsidia-
ries operating independently. The point of purification
shall be considered satisfactory when the reorganization
plan of a subsidiary company which is restricted has
been permitted and approved. After the various subsidi-
ary companies now under restriction and those not in
that category have been operating for some time, we can
permit merging where possible efficiency justifies, up
to the maximum limited size for shipping companies which
will be established. At such time, the Anti-Trust Law
will be in force and can be applied,
SHIPPING INDUSTRY PERSONNEL PURGE
The original Purge Directive was covered by SCAPIN 550,
AG O91.1 (4 Jan 46) GS, and was implemented by the Imperial Japanese
Government under its Imperial Ordinances of 4 January 1947. This
series of ordinances covered, among others, persons in the economic
field who had responsible positions and were influential in creat-
ing the recent war. Persons of this category will be screened by
the Japanese Government first and the screenings will be reviewed
by Government Section of SCAP.
2. For ready information, thore are quoted below pertinent
sections of the ordinance outlining the extent to which the purge
will affect persons in the shipping concerns and related companies:
a.
APPENDIX I. PARA. 12
"Influential companies, financial institutions, and
other economic organizations (subject to purge)"
Chairman
Vice-Chairman
President
Vice-President
Directors
Standing Auditor
And any other official, regardless of title,
who in fact, exercises the authority or in-
fluence or receives compensation commensurate
with that of any of the officials listed above.
(Various steamship and insurance companies are then list-
ed as coming under this purge, including NYK, OSK, Yama-
shita, Mitsubishi, Mitsui, Kawasaki).
b. APPENDIX

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9,1948
UNCLASS IF IED
-11-
(COPY)
-10-
b.
APPENDIX III PARA. 6.
(Interpretation of Category G by Japan, Govt.)
Any person who held between 7 July 1937 and 2 September
1945 a position of Chairman, Vice-Chairman, President,
Vice-Presidant, Manager, Director, Standing Auditor,
Standing Director, Councillor, Principal Stockholder who
owmed l0 percent or more of capital stocks or who exer-
cised ,directly or indirectly,controlling influences in
the management of the company or any other official, re-
gardless of his title----of
Conspicuously monopolistic companies which have
engaged in production of basic productive materials
or business of communication or transportation.
Conspicuously monopolistic companies which have
engaged in domestic or foreign trade.
Companies which have the authorized capitaliza-
tion exceeding one hundred million Yen.
C.
ARTICLE X from Imperial Ordinance No. 1
(Years purged) "Any person who is a relative within
the third degree of blood, marriage or adoption of
any person who falls under the Memorandum shall be
ineligible, for a period of ten years from day or
designation, to succeed or to be appointed to any
position or positions in the public service from
which the latter has been removed - and, further,
to exercise any of the power of the latter."
However, provisions of preceding paragraph shall
not be applied to any elective position in the
public service.
d.
ARTICLE XII of Imperial Ordinance No. 1
(Influence) "Any person falling under the Memorandum
shall not cause a person in the public service in
connection with handling of official affairs of poli-
tical activities of the latter, to establish or main-
tain, on behalf of him, the continuity of his influ-
ence, by giving instruction, advice or compensation
to or by communicating in any means with the latter."
3.
Government Section (Maj. J. P. Napier) advises that the
purge of officials in shipping companies is now in process.
4.
The purge has top priority with SCAP and in the reorgani-
zation of the Japanese Merchant Marine, it must be accomplished be-
fore other steps can be undertaken.
CIVILIAN

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
11
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-12-
(COPY)
-11-
CIVILIAN MERCHANT MARINE COMMITTEE (CMMC)
1.
The formation of the CMC is set forth in the following
excerpts from an exchange of radios:
a.
CINCPOA Ady. HQ desp. 32045 of 10 Sept. 1945 to SCAP
which reads in part: Ref CINCAFPAC O50853 (SCAP
Directive No. 2) Annex B Para. 4.
To exercise direction and supervision of operations
of Japanese Merchant vessels CINCPAC proposes to:
(1). Establish in Tokyo Fay area SCAJAP--
It is proposed that Japanese Government be directed
to appoint a Givilian Merchant Marine Committee whose
individual members would be satisfactory to SCAJAP
and whd would be representative of Japanese ship-
owners, bunkering agents, ship chandlers and Board
of Trade and through which as a body SCAJAP HQ
could most efficiently make known the overall
policy directives of SCAP and CINCPAC and exercise
appropriate direction and supervision of operations.
b.
SCAP concurred in 2117452 SCAP to CINCPAC as follows:
"Concur in your 100l232"
2.
The Japanese already had the Shipping Control Association
which fulfilled most of the requirements set forth by SCAJAP. As a
result, they secured permission to change its name and then utilize
the association for the continued control of Japanese shipping. In-
sofar as the Japanese are concerned, they still use the name of Ship-
ping Contol Association, however, when speaking to Occupation Forces
they call it CMC.
3。
The organization is not closely controlled by any other
Japanese governmental body, but has to go to the Ministry of Trans-
portation for its funds. It is an orphan agency working completely
for the operation of Japanese shipping under SCAJAP.
4. As the interim plan goes into effect and de-controls are
carried out, it is anticipated that CMC will have to be continued
under controls as are required due to economic conditions. Chiefly,
the following are mentioned:
a.
Central booking control
b.
Allocation of ships
C.
Control of repair priority.
d. Accounting

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-13-
(COPY)
-12-
d.
Accounting in connection with receiving all
revenues and payment of charter fees etc. to
owners.
e.
Reporting to occupation forces.
It is visualized that CC will shrink in ratio to our
phased de-control until eventually it will be completely dissolved.
Innediate reduction in the organization can be expected when we
transfer responsibility for operation of the vessels and repairs
to the owners.
METHODS OF DE-CONTROL OF SHIPS
The present setup with ClMC has all vessels requisition-
ed by the government under bareboat charter. This virtually makes
all shipowners landlords collecting a small bareboat charter fee,
but having no hand in the operation of vessels. Such a device was
necessary for maximum control in time of war, hut must now be eli-
minated and the operatiors put back into business before they are
all forced to go out of existence. There is no substitute for the
interest and skill of the industry itself in the efficient opera-
tion and repair of vessels, however, an incentive of financial
ain must be injected into an interim program to make it function
on a competitive basis. The secret of success in our de-control
will be based upon simplicity of administration even though such
administration may be slightly higher in cost at the beginning
than a more complicated system.
2.
The various methods for affecting such de-control have
been carefully considered in relation to the present economic con-
dition of Japan and the government control of shipping operations.
A phased de-control has been outlined and is described in more
detail in the following paragraphs.
As a preparatory step to such decontrol, a committee
will be appointed to determine charter fees and berth agent hus-
bandry fees. This Committee to be knowm as the "CHARTER COMMIT-
TEE" and to he composed of appointees representing the following:
a.
Economic Stabilization Board.
b.
Ministry of Finance.
C.
Price Board.
d.
General Maritime Bureau (Ministry of Transportation)
e.
Civilian Merchant Marine Committee (CMMC)
f.
Shipowners.
g.
Neutral member in case of tie.
It is felt that any collusion of shipowmers in the maritime agencies
of the government will be offset by the presence of the Economic
Stabiligation Board, Ministry of Finance, and Price Board, on the
Committee, who will be interested in keeping down government ex-
penses as much as possible.
FIRST

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-14-
(COPY)
-13-
FIRST PHASE
1. A de-control by types of vessels as our first phase can
be regulated easily and the differential between freight rates and
operating costs covered by the charter fee. The entire fleet divides
itself into types that can be marked off as increments. As fast as
the industry itself can make the necessary adjustments to its renew-
ed activity in operation, just so fast can releases of step by step
be made. As each group is released, the manner in which the transi-
tion is accomplished can be watched and the next step regulated ac-
cordingly. Unforeseen difficulties arising after the first block
de-control will be visible and such problems handled. In this man-
ner, transition may be accomplished with the least danger of inter-
rupting the water transportation by endeavoring to create too great
a change at one time. In the implementation of this plan, the book-
ing of cargo and allocation of ships with sufficient freedom to en-
sure full utilization of vessels to the greatest advantage is
still centrally controlled.
2.
It is mandatory that the charter party contain certain
incentives and penalties to the operators to create the greatest
efficiency and competition. To accomplish this result, the charter
Party will be on a muoh broader scope of responsibility for the own-
ers than would be common practice in granting charters under normal
conditions or in a stabilized economy. Basically, the charter par-
ty shall include the following salient points:
a.
Vessel goes off hire when laid up for major repairs
or excessive time on running repairs.
b.
Demurrage to be assessed for delays in lay-time.
c.
Premiums to be paid as "dispatch" money for unusually
rapid turn-around.
d.
Repairs for responsibility of owners.
e.
Bunkering to be accomplished by owners.
f.
Manning, provisioning and upkeep account owners.
3.
The off-hire penalty in the charter party when vessels
are not working is desirable. If cargoes through central booking
do not keep the vessels employed, this will cause operators to
bring pressure against CMC. This factor should assist in the
shift of cargo from rail to water when bottoms are idle and bring
about the desired balance between rail and water freight.
4. Inasmuch as the operators will not have offices in all
ports and it is not intended to permit "Watering" charter fees to
permit excessive overhead, it is contemplated that owners may ap-
pointed as husbandry agents, companies have offices in the port
where their vessels may be assigned. Such berth agents will be
responsible for complete husbandry of the vessel and handling of
the cargo and will receive a flat fee for each vessel so handled.
Therefore,

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-15-
(COPY)
-14-
Therefore, profits hinge upon volume. Owners naturally will tend
to favor agents who secure "Premium dispatch money" rather than
"demurrage"penalties.
5.
A natural overlap will exist during this first phase
of the de-control in local offices of the CMMC and owmers. How-
ever, the gradual shrinking is estimated to permit a reduction
in the CMMC organization of about 2,000 personnel or 50 as a
result of this first phase.
Retention of these government offices in domestic trade
will be required for control of dispatch monies and payment of
handling charge. Vessels operating in overseas trade will continue
to handle expenses incurred in same manner as at present. In ad-
dition, the continuation of daily reporting of vessels movements
to Occupation Forces (SCAJAP) as a control measure is essential
to utilization of the vessels.
SECOND PHASE
1. After the first phase has been instigated and is pro-
gressing, a study of trade routes will be completed in prepara-
tion for the next phase. Once the amount of cargo regularly
moving on the routes has been established, further decontrol will
be started by areas, viz. Hokkaido trade, Kyushu Trade, Inland
Sea trade, then overseas trade. Competitive bedding by ship-
owners will be invited for movement of cargo by routes. Addi-
tional tonnage required to take up the slack will be moved by
vessels controlled by CMC under the first phase. As traffic
increases on the respective route, the shipping companies will
tend to firm up for normal economy and the number of vessels un-
der government control will diminish in ratio. Vessels not re-
quired under charter by CMMC may engage in independent trade
without subsidies.
THIRD PHASE
1. The third phase will be the establishment of rates
equitable with prices. Present policy to control inflation does
not permit over-all increases in waterborne rates due to the ef-
fect on over-all living cost. Until such time as the economy is
more stabilized, this phase cannot be completed.
FOURTH PHASE
1. The fourth phase will be the establishment of commodi-
ty subsidies on cargo which requires assistance due to lack of
balance between operating cost and revenue. These will become
very pronounced and will be bulk commodities, lending themselves
easily to a separate group on which such subsidies can be es-
tablished.
FIFTH

=== Page 191 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-16-
(COPY)
-15-
FIFTH PHASE
1. The last phase will be withdrawal of commodity sub-
sidies and final adjustment of such subsidies as are necessary un-
der total private enterprise. After this phase is developed, de-
control will be completed. Such controls as central booking, al-
location of vessels, and priority of repairs will be removed and
CMC dissolved. Records of this organization may then be trans-
ferred to the General Maritime Bureau.
2.
The foregoing is summarized by steps in Appendix I.
V. CONCLUSIONS
1. To increase the efficiency of vessel operation and to
expedite repairs, it is desirable and necessary to transfer operat-
ing responsibilities of the Japanese Merchant Fleet to shipowners
and operators.
2. A total return of vessels to private enterprise at
this time cannot be effected as certain centralized controls are
still required by the economic conditions existent in Japan today.
3.
Some form of subsidy of necessary as marine shipping
rates are not in proper adjustment to:
a.
Current price levels
b.
Rail rates
C.
Cost of ship operation
d.
Cost of construction
The present weakened condition of shipping companies
limit their ability to resume successfully private enterprise with-
out some form of government assistance.
5. The shipping industry is not prepared to receive full
private enterprise until such time as the individual restricted
companies obtain approval of reorganization plans and have compli-
ed with SCAP directives. They may, however, operate vessels be-
fore final adjustments are accomplished and be gaining strength
for full private enterprise.
6. A phased de-control can be regulated in ratio to the
ability of the shipping companies to assume additional respon-
sibility.
7.
Such de-control will tend to increase efficiency of
ships, shorten turn-around time, bring into operation a greater
number of bottoms and give the companies a chance to regain
operating skill.
8. By

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-17-
(COPY)
-16-
who have neither controlled nor operated their own vessels for
over eight years will have an opportunity to re-establish them-
selves and regain their operating skill phase by phase. As ad-
justments are accomplished and strength regained, they will be
prepared for their full responsibilities of normal commercial
ship operation with the minimum of financial aid from the
government.
VI RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that action being taken to estab-
lished a modified form of private operation, designed to effect
economies in the Japanese budget and resumption of normal com-
mercial shipping enterprise, be approved and continued accord-
ing to the phases outlined in Appendix I.
SUBMITTED BY:
Paul E. Richers
APPROVAL RECOMPENDED
W. L. Ogden, Chief
Plans, Policies & Requirements Division.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-18-
(COPY)
PROCEDURE FOR PHASED DE-CONTROL OF
JAPANESE MERCHANT SHIPS
PRELMINARY STEPS
FIRST STEP
TARGET DATE
CONCURRENCES
L.
Complete purge screening of shipping
Complete
GS/Gen.Whitney
personnel coming within present
15 June 1947
purge directives.
2.
Removal of all controlling and re-
15 June 1947
ESS/AC
straining powers from Maritime
Mr.F.C.Welsh
Associations.
3.
Liquidation of shipping holding
All stocks al-
ESS/AC
companies
ready trans-
Mr.F.C.Welsh
ferred to SCAP
and Liq. pro-
ceeding.
4.
Approval of plans for reorganization
15 July 1947
ESS/AC
of all restricted shipping concerns.
Mr.F.C.Welsh
RESULT:
When the above has been accomplished sufficiently
that the potency of the old system has been de-
stroyed, we then will have a clean and wholesome
foundation on which to build the new structure.
SEC OND STEP
1.
Establishment of "RE-EMPLOYMENT COMMITTEE"
15 June 1947
ESS/Labor
Mr.S.D.Collett
2.
Establishment of CHARTER COMMITTEE
15 June 1947
Gen.Maritime
and functioning of Same.
Bureau respnn-
sibility.
RESULT:
We then have our working machinery set up.
THIRD STEP
1.
Appointment of operators who have
15 July 1947
Gen.Maritime
completed Step One and are then
Fur. respon-
considered eligible for appointment
sibility with
as operators.
approval of
CTS and
ESS/AC
DECONTROL

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-19-
(COPY)
DECONTROL OF VESSELS BY PHASES
FIRST PHASE
1.
Place first increment of vessels on broad time charter 15
July 1947 instead of present bareboat charter. Continue
by increment as the industry adjust itself.
RESULT :
We now have the operators running the ships in
increasing numbers. Full responsibility for
operation is with shipowners, however, central
booking, ship allocation and priority of repairs
still rest with CMMC for necessary control under
present economy.
SECOND PHASE
1.
Study the normal regular volume of traffic moving in the
various trade routes. Divide the areas into Hokkaido Trade,
Kyushu trade, and Inland trade. Taking one trade at a time,
prepare tonnage requirements against cargo requirements.
2.
Competitive bidding by shipowners invited for movement of cargo
by routes. As traffic increases continue solidifying tonnage
in the trade until all routes are firmed up.
THIRD PHASE
1.
As the economy permits, establish rates equitable with prices.
FOURTH PHASE
1.
To further effect decontrol, cancel charter parties established
in the phases preceding and in their place grant subsidies on
specific comodities where the disparity is great. NOTE: Such
controls as central booking, allocation of vessels, and prior-
ity of repairs will be removed and CMMC dissolved.
FIFTH PHASE
1.
Establish final requirements for subsidies of the shipping in
Japan.
2.
Subsidies as required to be granted and all emergency controls
on shipping to be cancelled.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No.
593 dated September 9, 1948
from the Office of the Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Resumption of Responsi-
bility by Japanese Shipowners to
Crew, Supply, Repair and Maintain
Privately-Owned Merchant Vessels".
(COPY)
THE JAPANESE SHIPOWNERS' ASSOCIATION, INC.
Tokyo, January 28, 1948.
A STATEMENT BY JUNSUKE ITAYA, PRESIDENT
The war-time shipping control ordinance, extended three time
after the end of hostilities, goes out of effect on March 31, 1948,
and the present C.M.M.C. organization will lose its legal basis on
the same day, unless an appropriate legislative step is taken before
the expiration date.
Realizing that C.M.M.C. has to be continued under occupation,
and also that an agency for a unified state control of maritime
transportation is called for under the existing economic condition
of the country, we favor and advocate the creation of a new agency
after April this year.
Such an agency should, in our opinion, be so constituted as
to be a temporary organ of a much simplified structure than the
present organization, as we shall eleborate at some length later
on. We should now like to state briefly the reasons why we are
in favor of such an agency.
In the first place, the operating efficiency of the existing
merchant marine must be increased to the utmost, as we have aften
stressed. There can be no dissenting opinion, we dare say, on
this score. We only wish to add that the need of a greatly enlarg-
ed transportation is all the more urgent and real in view of the
increased production program of all essential commodities for the
next fiscal year commencing on April 1 next, as witness 36,000,000
tons of coal to be mined as against barely 30,000,000 tons for the
current year. We have consistently maintained, that better trans-
portation performance can be gotton out of the present merchant
fleet only through a closer and smoother coordination of mainten-
ance, operation, and manning of ships. This in turn calls for a
larger role that shipowners should play, and a correspondingly
smaller role for the state agency for shipping control. In other
words, it means decontrol of shipping by stages in an orderly man-
ner.
Improved performance of the existing fleet will naturally
result in the lightening of fiscal burden falling upon taxpayers,
which is our second point. We cannot emphasize this point too
strongly. According to the estimate for the next fiscal year,
the budgeted expenses over and above freight and other incomes
of C.M.M.C. will run to the enormous amount of ¥5,400 million,
on the

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSDFIED
-2-
on the basis of commodity prices and wage scales of September last.
Of this huge sum, subsidy for the carriage of domestic cargoes, es-
timated at 12,600,000 tons, amounts to 3,900 million yen, or over
¥310 for every ton of cargo moved. Because of the sharp advances
in prices and wages since September last year, and the inevitable
further advances during the next fiscal year, the expenses will run
far in excess of the estimate just mentioned; indeed, the outlay will
exceed lo billion. Any saving that can be effected from better mana-
gement under increasingly private operation will be of greater impor-
tance to general taxpayer in exact proportion to the higher prices
and wages.
Thirdly a peace-time agency for the emergency state control of
shipping must be conceived and organized in such a way that ways will
be open and paved for the eventual restoration of the shipping indus-
try to private enterprise. A Japanese merchant marine privately owm-
ed and operated being the fixed policy of GHQ, SCAP, we shall not la-
bor this point. It may be added that the present freight rate struc-
ture must be re-examined and upward revisions made, because the exist-
ing rates are disproportionately low, in comparison both with the gen-
eral commodity price level, and the real cost of railway transporta-
tion as distinguished from the nominal rail freight rates in the
tariffs. The upward revision of marine freight rates is an indis-
pensable step toward decontrol of shipping and the ultimate elimina-
tion of subsidy on maritime transportation. Only by proper adjust-
ment of freight rates will it be possible to let the transportation
cost fall where it should, namely the beneficiaries.
In the fourth place, there is another problem of the utmost
urgency. And that is: How much longer can shipping companies re-
tain their organizations and talents, and patiently wait for the
happy days of shipping decontrol? In the face of mounting losses,
tight financial condition, the threatened flight of capital from
the industry, and the losses of able staff members due to small
pay and absence of bright future, return of shipping to private
hands can never go beyond a ptous hope, unless steps are taken,
and immediately, to enable shipping firms to keep in existencc.
And the only way of doing so is by giving back to them the work
which is primarily theirs.
We now come to our concept of the new government agency for
shipping control and its functions. Itemized, our concept is as
follows:
1).
A Shipping Control Committee to be brought into being by a
suitable legislation.
a).
This Committee to be a temporary organ, and to cease
to exist when a degree of economic stability is achiev-
ed. It shall be of a simplified structure which will
permit it to function in a democratic manner, free from
bureaucratic

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
bureaucratic controls and red-tapism. The present C.M.M.C.
organization to be made use of in forming the new Committee
as far as necessary and useful.
b).
The Committee to be so organized as to be acceptable to
GHQ, SCAP as the C.M.M.C. under its directive.
c).
The Committee is to allocate ships to various trades, de-
termine the priority of ship repairs, take charge of neces-
sary labor management, and exercise other essential con-
trols.
Operation, maintenance, and manning are to be done by
shipowmers.
d).
The Committee to charter on time such ships as are neces-
sary for its purposes.
e).
Ships now under bare charter to the government to go on
time charter as soon as they complete their voyages or
repairs after the said Committee comes into being.
f).
The Committee to be empowered to make contracts of af-
freightment with shippers.
g).
Sea personnel to be employees of shipowners but such
portion of personnel not immediately employable or not
on owners' reserve lists to be taken care of by the
Shipping Control Committee.
h).
The Committee to receive its funds out of the budget for
the Ministry of Transportation.
2).
Sub-committees may be appointed within the Committee to ensure
efficient and smooth working, e.g.,
a).
Operation Sub-committee, in charge of ship allocation,
charter and freight rates, handling fees, etc.
b).
Labor Sub-committee, in charge of re-placement, re-educa-
tion, etc. of sea and shore personnel.
c).
Repair Sub-committee, in charge of priority in ship re-
pairs.
3).
Operating Agency Arrangement to be made with qualified ship-
ping companies by the Committee, as a temporary measure for
the period of transition towards the ultimate ship operation
by owners themselves at their own risk and account,- the form
that is certain to achieve the utmost in the economy of cost
of transportation and the maximum carriage of goods by sea.
The

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's No. 593
September 9, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-4-
The transition period to be divided into the following stages:
a).
First Stage, at which -
i). Operators to handle the actual operation of ships
on fee basis;
ii). The Committee to assume all the risk and account.
b).
Second Stage, at which -
i). The fee basis to continue as before, but bonus and
penalty system to be added:
ii).
Bonus and penalty to apply to improve monthly work-
ing of ships and to saving in the costs of operation.
iii).
For assessing the costs of operation of ships, stan-
dard costs to be determined, and bonus paid for better
results or handling fees deducted as penalty.
iv).
For assessing monthly working of ships, standard of
cargo capacity to be determined for each ship, and
that of the duration of each voyage to be determin-
ed; and both to be applied to determine the bonus
or penalty.
c).
Third Stage, at which -
i). Operation of ships to be assigned to owmers on a
competitive bid, the bidders to be wholly responsible
to perform the carriage of goods contracted for.
For further details of the method of effecting the necessary
change-over and allied subjects, we wish to refer you to the program
in our letter submitted to General Besson on September 25, 1947.
Having thus stated our views and outline plan briefly, we pray
that C.T.S. will assume at once a real and effective leadership to
bring about the much-needed reform in the method of shipping control
in this country. We know of no other authorities, GHQ Sections, or
the Government, legislative or executive, that can inspire the reform
and translate the reform scheme into action with force and effect
which your Section is capable of. When we look to your Section for
a genuine leadership in the reform, we know that we are asking in
perfectly good conscience for your aid to promote measures that are
wholly consonant with the GHQ policy and strictly in the national
interest of Japan.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch
No. 593 dated September 9,
1948 from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tolyo, on the subject, "Re-
sumption of Responsibility by
Japanese Shipowners to Crew,
Supply, Ropair and Maintain
Privately>Owmed Herchant
Vessels".

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
MARINERS LAW
CHAPTER I
GFNERAL PROVISIONS
(Mariner)
Article 1
For the purposc of this Law, the term. "marinor" shall
include every master or seaman who sorves on hoerd a Japanose
vessel or a non-Japanosc vessel provided for in ordinance or
evory rescrvist.
A. vossel montioned in the procedinp paragraph oxcludes
any of the following vesscls:
1. A vessol of less than fivo tons gross
2. A vessel navigating lakes, rivers or within harbors
cxcDusively;
3. A fishing vessol of lcss then thirty tons gross.
Articlo 2
The term "seaman" as used in this Law shall includo .. ..
overy porson excopt the master who 1s cmployedas a membor of
the crow on a vossol ongaged in maritime navigation for salary,
weges or any other romuneration to be paid in componsation for
his scrvice.
The term "rosorviss" as used in this Law shall include
every person cmployod for purposc of sorving on board the
vossol provided for in paragraph 1 of tho proceding articlo
but not in sorvicc thoroon.
Articlc 3
Tho torm "officer" es uscd in this Law shall includo
overy mate, chicf engineer, onginecr, wireless operator, and
overy other scaman provided for in ordinance. Tho torm
"ratings" shall includo ovory seamen othor than officors.
(Selary or Wagos and Hours of Work)
Articlo 4
The expression "snlary or wagcs" as uscd in this Law
means a basic regular pey which constitutes a part of tho fixed
periodical payment mado by the shipownor to the mariner by
way of componsation, and the cyprcssion "hours of work" means
timo during which tho mariner is ongaged on watch duties or
any other work under tho official ordor of his suporior.
(Applicetion of Provisions Govorning Shipownors)
Articlc 5
Tho provisions rolative to shipownors of this Lew and tho
ordinance issued thereundor shall apply to the ship's husband
in the caso of-co-ownorship, to the lcssco in tho case of
loasc, and to. the..porson. in. the .caso whero a porson other than
owner, husbend or lossed of tho vossel employs a marinor.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
(Apnlication of Labor Standards Law)
Article 6
Tho provisions of Articles 1 to 1l inclusive, Articles
117 to 119 inclusive and Article 121 of tho Labor Standards
Law shall apply to mariners in respoct to labor relations.
CHAPTER II
FUNCTIONS AND PCWERS
OF MASTFRS
(Right to Commend and Order)
Articlc 7
The master may command and supervise seamen and give
persons on board the vossel orders necessary for the per-
formance of his dutics.
(Inspoction before Commencement of Voyage)
irticle 8
The master shall, before tho commencement of a voyage,
meke an inspection as to whether tho vessel is fit for naviga-
tion and whether the other preparations nocessary for the
voyage are in due order.
(Completion of Vovage)
Article 9
When pr parations for a voyage have been completed, the
mastor shail commence the voyago without delay, and cxcopt in
caso of necessity shall prococd to the port of destination with-
out deviating from the predctormined route.
(Command on Dock)
Article 10
Tho master shall tako command of his vessel in person
standing on dock, when the vossel enters or clears any port,
or passes through any narrow fairway, or whon there is any
other danger to tho vessol.
(Obligation to Romain on Board)
Articlo 11
The mastor shall not, oxcept in unavoidable circumstances,
leave the vessel under his command, during the intervel botwe-
on the shippinp of cargo or the embarkation of passongers and
the discharge of cargo or tho disembarkation of passengers,
unlcss he has entrusted his duties to a person who would tako
command of the vessol in his stcad.
2

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
(Moens in Casc of Dangor to: Vesscls)
Articlc 12
Tho mastor, whon there is imminent danger to the vossel,
shall not leave the vossol, unloss ho has cxheusted evory
means necossary to salvo human life, tho vossel and the cargo,
and until the passengers, the. scamen and other persons aboard
heve abandoned the vossci.
(Mcans in Casc.of Collision)
Article 13
In casc of collision betworn two vosscls, the mastor of
ono vessel shall use overy possible moans necessery for the
salving of the other vossel end human life on board the vessel
and give the namo of his vossel, her owner, her ports of ro-
gistry, departure and dostination to the master of the othor
vessol, except whore thore is. imminent dangor to tho vossel
under his command.
(Assistance of Vosscls in Distross)
Articlo 14
When it has come to the knowlodge of any master that
another vesscl is in distress, ho shall usc overy possible
moans necessary for the salving of human lifc on board the
vossel, oxcept in a caso whorc thero is imminont dangor to the
vossol under his command or in tho caso provided for in
Ordinance.
(Burial at Soa)
Articlo 15
The master may, in case there has occurrod any doeth among
the porsons on board the vessel when under way, bury the body
of such person at soa in accordance with tho provisions of
Ordinance.
(Custody of Effocts)
Article 16
If any porson on board the vessel hes died or becomo
missing, the master thoreof shall, in accordence with the pro-
visions of Ordinance, take charge or.make any other disposi-
tion of the offects which tho person leaves on board the
vessel, unloss otherwise provided by othor laws or ordinances.
3

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Repatriation of Nationals Abroad)
Article 17
If a Japanese consul resident in a foreign country has,
in accordance with the provisions of laws or ordinances,
ordered a master to take any Japanese national to his own
country, the master shall not refuse to obey such order ex-
cept for justifiable reasons.
Necessary matters connected with repayment of the ex-
penses of such repatriation shall be provided for by Ordinance.
(Obligation to Keep Documents)
Article 18
The master shall, unless othorwise provided by ordinance,
keep the following documents on board:
The certificate of nationality of a ship or. other
certificates provided for in Ordinance;
2.
The shipping articles;
3.
The log book;
4.
The list of passengers;
5. Tho documents relating to the cargo.
Necessary mattors connected with the shipping articles,
the log bock and tho list of passengers shall be provided
for by ordinance.
(Report on Navigation)
Article 19
The mester shall, in accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance, report to the competent authorities, in the case
falling under any of the following items:
1. If there has occurred any collision, stranding,
foundering, loss, fire, damage to engines or eny
other shipping casualty;
2.
If he has rendered services in salving human life or
a vessol;
3.
If, when the vessel is under way it has come to his
knowledgc, except by wireless, that another vessel
is in distress;
4.
If any person on board the vessel has died or is
missing;
5.
If a doviation has been made from the predetermined
route;
6.
If the vesscl has been interned or captured, or has
oncountered any other remarkable accident.
(Performance of Master's Duties by Proxy)
Article 20
If, in cases whero the master has died or left his vesscl,
or where he is unablo to tako command thereof, he has failed
to appoint any othor person to his post, one of. the seamen
engagod in navigation who is next to him in the order of their
grade or rating shall perform the duties of the master.
4

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
0
CHAPTER III
DISCIPLINE
(rder on Board)
Article 21
A seamen shell observe the following matters:
1. To obey the official orders of his superiors;
Neither to noglect his own duties, nor to obstruct
any other members of the crew in the discharge of
their duties;
3.
To cmbark on the vessel by the time appointed by the
master;
4.
Not to loave the vessel without permission of the
master;
5.
Not to use a boat or any other important appurtenan-
ces without permission of the master;
6.
Not to waste provisions or fresh water on board;
7.
Not to usc electricity or the heat of fire without
permission of the master, or not to smoko at a place
where smoking is prohibited;
8.
Not to take into, or out of, the vessel any articles
other than daily neccssities without permission of
the master;
9.
Not to quarrel by force, get intoxicated, or not to
commit any other outrage;
10.
Not to commit such other acts as will disturb the
order on board the vessel.
(Disciplinery Punishment)
Article 22
The master may inflict disciplinary punishment on any
seaman who has failed to obsorve any of the matters mentioned
in the preceding article.
Article 23
Disciplinary punishment shall be of two forms viz, pro-
hibition of landing and admonition. The term of the prohibi-
tion of landing shall not excced ten days including the first
dey of punishment and consisting solely of days when the vessel
stays in port.
Article.24
The master cannot inflict disciplinary punishment on any
seaman without giving a hearing to three or more witnesses
who are scamen, and without examining the seaman and the per-
sons concerned in the presence of the witnesses.
5

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Measures in Case of Dangers)
Article 25
 If a seaman has on board any deadly weapons, explosive
or inflammable erticles, poisons or any other dangerous object,
the master may take into his custody, abandon, or make any
other disposition of, such things.
Article 26.
If a seamen threatens to do any harm to the lives. or
bodies of persons on board the vessel, the master sheli deal
with him in such a manner es he deems necessary to.avojd such
harm.
Article 27.
The master, if he deems necessary, may also deal with a
påssenger or any other person on board the vessel as provided
by the two preceding articles.
(Compulsory Quittance of Vessels)
Article 28
When a seemen fails to leave the vessel, after official
certification has been obtained of the tormination of a contract
of engagement, the master may compel the seaman to quit such
vessel.
(Call for Assistance of Administrative Authoritics)
Article 29
If, in cases where a seaman or any other person on board
the vessel has done any such act as may endanger human life
or the vessel, or as may seriously disturb the order on board,
the master deems necessary, he may call for assistance from
the administrative authoritics.
(Limitation of Acts of Dispute)
Article 30
An act of dispute concerning labor relations shall not.
be done while the vesseI is in a foreign port or where the
act of dispute may endanger human life or the vessel.
CHAPTER IV
CONTRACTS OF ENGAGEMENT
(Contracts Contrary to this Law)
Article 31
Such portion of a contract of engagement as contains
provision for working condffions falling short of the standards
fixed by this Law shall be invalidated.
6

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
In such case the contract shall, in respect of the portion
thus invalidated, be deemed to contain provision for working
conditions coming up to the standards fixed by this Law.
(Notification of Working Condition)
Articlo 32
The shipowner, on the conelusion of a contrect of engage-
ment, shall bring to the notice of his mariners salary or
wapes, hours of work and other working conditions. The same
shall elso apply when any modification has been made in the
contract of ongngement.
(Prohibition of Predotermination of Damages)
Article 33
The shipowner shall rot enter into any contract provid-
ing penalties for non-fulfilmont of the contract or predetermin-
ing emount of damages.
(Prohibition of Compulsory Savings)
Article 3a
When concluding a contract of engagement, the shipowner
shall not compel his mariners into a subsidiary contract to
save some portion of their salary or wages or to deposit such
savings in his custody.
If the shipowner intends to take charge of the mariner's
savings at the lattor's request, he shall fix the methods of
keaping and returning the same and obtain the approval of the
competont uthorities.
(Limitetion on offscts)
Article 35
The shipowner shall not set off an obligation which ho
has against a mariner, agairst his obligatory duty to pay the
mariner his salary or wages, except in cases where the amount
of deduction does not oxceed one-third of that of the salary
or wages or where the shipowner has a claim against the
mariner for demeges caused by his criminal act.
(Entry and Notification of Worling Conditions)
Article 36
When a contract of engacement has been concluded, the"
mester shall meke an entry, in the shipping articlos of the
working conditions laid down in the contract and bring it to
the notice of his seamon. The same shall also apply wher any
alteration has been made in the contract of engagemont.
7

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Certification of Contract of Engagement)
Article 37
When a contrect of engagement has been concluded, termi-
nated, renewed or altored, the master shall, without delay,
present the shipping erticles to the competent authorities
and call upon them to.certify the contrect of engagement, in
accordance with the provisions f ordinances.
hen, in the case contemplated in the precedine paragraph,
the master is unable to call for certification, the shipowner
shall do so instead of the master.
Article. 38
The competent authorities, when called upon to certify
a contract of engagement, shali examine the contract as to
whether there is anything in it to confict with the provisions
of laws and ordinances concerning the safety of navigation or
the mariners' labor relations, or as to whether mutual con-
sent of the parties is sufficient.
(Termination of Contract by Shin's Foundering, otc.)
Article 39
When a vessel falls under either of the following 1tems,
a contract of cngagement shall terminate:
1. If the vessel has foundored or has been lost;
2. If the vessel has come into a state of total un-
seaworthiness.
A vessel shall be presumed to be lost, if it is unknown
for. one month whether.she exists or not.
Even in cases where a contract of engagement has terminated
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1, the mariner
shall ronder srrvicos necessery for the cmergency assistance
of human life, the vessel or the cargo. In such case the
contract shali be decmed to continue to exist.
(Rescision.of Contract of Engegement)
Article 40
The shipowner ma rescind a contract of engagement in
the case fallint und r any of the following items:
1.
If the mariner has been found quite unfitted for his
duties;
2.
If the mariner has grossly neglected his duties or
has been muilty of gross default in respect to his
duties;
3.
If the seaman has failed to embark on the vessel by
the time arnointed by the master;
4.
If the seaman sericusly disturbed the order on board
the vessel;
8

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
果
MARINERS LAW
5.
If the mariner has become Incapacitated for his duties
by reason of injury or sičkness;
6.
If any unavoidable necessity arises from a reason
not specified in any of the foregoing items.
Article 41
A mariner may rescind the contrect of engagement, in the.
case falling under any of the following items:
1. If the vessel has lost her nat1onality as of the time
ti
when the contract was concluded;
2. If the working conditions laid down in the contract
have been found much at variance with the fact;
3.
If he has become incapacitated for his duties by
reason of injury or stckness;
4.
If he is to be educated or trained as provided by
Ordinance.
If, in cases where the vessel has completed her voyage
from a foreign port, a mariner on board the vessel has given
not less than twenty-four hours' written notice to rescind the
contract, the contract shall terminate in respect of the mariner
on the expiration of the period.
If a seaman furnishes in his place such a person as the
master may consider competent and reljable, he may rescind the
contrect of engagement.
Article 42
A contract for an indefinite period shall terminate, if
the shipowner or the mariner hes given not less than twenty-
four hours' written notice to rescind the contract, on the
expiration of the period.
(Termination of Contract by Change of Ownership)
Article 43
If there has been a change in the ownership of the vessel,
a contract of engagement shall terminate, except when the
change has happened by inheritance or any other case of general
succession.
In the case contemplated in the preceding paragraph, it
shall be deemed that, on and from the termination of the contract
a contrect identical in its torms with the former contract.
exists hetween the mariner and the new owner. In such case,
the mariner may rescind the contract according to the provision
of the preceding Article.
(Prolongation of Period of Engagement)
Article 44
If a contrect of engegement has terminated when the vessel
is under way, the contract shell be deemed to continue in ex-
istence until the vessel has arrived at the next port and the
unloading of cargo or the disembarkation of passengers at such
port has been completed;
9

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
and if the contract has terminated when the vessel 1s in port,
the contract shall be so until the unloading of cargo or the
disembarkation of passengers at the port has boen completed.
If a contract of engagement terminates at a port where
no competent mariner can be complemented, the shipowner may
prolong the period of engagement of the mariner referred to
until the vessel has arrived at a port where a competent mariner
can be complemented and the unloading of cargo or the disem-
barkation of passengers has been completed. This shall not,
however, apply in the case contemplated in item 1 to 3 in-
clusive, parcgraph 1, Articlo 41.
(Unemployment Allowances)
Article 45
If a contract of engegement has terminated in accordance
with the provisions of Article 39, the shipowmer shall pay a
mariner, once a month, en unemrloyment allowance of the same
amount as his salary or wages, for a period not exceeding two
months, in respect of every day of his unemployement.
(Discharge Allowances)
Article 46
The shipowner (or former shipowner in the case of item 4)
shall without delay pay a mariner a discharge allowance of the
same amount as his monthly salary or wages in the caso fal-
ling under any of the following items:
1. If the shipowner hos rescinded the contrect of engage-
ment in accordance with the provision of Article 40,
1tem 6;
2.
If the mariner has rescinded the contract of engage-
ment in accordance with the provision of Article 41
paragranh 1, item 1 or 2;
3..
If the shipowner has rescinded the contrect of engage-
ment in accordence with the provision of Article 42;
4.
If the contrect of engagement has terminated in ac-
cordence with the provision of Article 43, paragraph 1;
5.
If the contract of engagcment has been rescinded by
reason of the mariner's inability to obtain a certifi-
cate of heelth provided in Article 81.
(Repetriation)
hrticle 47
The shipowner shall, without delay and at his expense,
take the mariner beck to the port where he was engaged or to
a place where the mariner desires to be takon to, or may sub-
stitute such repatriation for payment of the expenses of the
repatrintion, in the case falling under any of the following
items:
5
10

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS-LAW-
1. If the contract of engagement has terminated in ac-
cordance with the provision of Artiole 39;
2.
If the shipowner ha's rescinded the contract of engage-
ment in accordance with the provision of Article 40
1 tem 1 or 6;
3.
If the shipowner or the mariner has rescindod the con-
tract of enpagement in accordence with the provision
of Article 40 1tem 5, or Article 41,.peragraph 1,
1tem 3. This shall not, however, apply. in a case where
the in fury or sickness which the marinen sustained or
contractod without relation to his duties 1s due to
a. wilful act or gross default on his part;
If the mariner has rescinded the contract of engage-
ment in accordance with the provision of Article 41
paragraph 1, item 1 or.2;
5., If the shipowner hes rescinded the contract of engage-
ment in accordance with the provision of Article 42;
6.
If the mariner has rescinded the contrdct of engege-
ment in accordencc with the prov1sion of Article 43,
paragraph 2;
7.
If,the contract of engegement of a mariner has ter-
minated by the expiration of the reriod of engagement
at a place other·than his own country;
8.
If the contract of engegoment has been rescinded by
reason of the mariners' inability to receive.a cer-
tificate of hoalth as provided in Article 81.
(Expensos of. Repatriation)
Article 48
The expenses for repatriating a mariner, which are to
be borne by the shipowner, shall include tho charges for trans-
portation, accommodation and fond of the mariner during the
repatriation, and also charges for his accommodation and food
from the time of the termination of the contract up to the
time of his immediate departure.
(Repatriation Allowances)
Article 49
The shipowner shall pay a mariner a repatriation allowance
of the same amount as his salary or wages in respect of every
day required for his ropatriation. The same shall apply in
cases where the expenses of repatriation are paid in lieu of
repatriation.
The repatriation allowance mentioned in the preceding para-
graph shall he paid once a month in case the'shipowner takes
back a mariner or at the time of payment of repatriation ex-
penses in case the shipowner pays the same in lieu of repatria-
tion.
11

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Mariner Pocket-Ledger).
Article 50
A mariner shall hold a mariner's pocket-ledger.
The master shall take charge of the pocket-ledger of
his seaman while the seaman is on board the vessel.
Necessary matters pertaining to the grant, correction,
rewriting and return of a mariner's pooket-ledger shall be
prescribed by Ordinance.
(Certificate as to Quality of Work)
Article 51
A seaman may demand the master to grant a certificate as
to the quality of his work:
CHAPTER V
SALARY, WAGES OR· OTHER RFMUNERATIONS
(Method of Fixing Salary, Wages or other Remunerations)
Article 52
The salary, wares or other remunerations of a mariner
shall be fixed in consideration of the particular nature of
maritime labor and according to his experience, capacity,
and service.
(Method of Paving Salary, Wages or other Remunerations)
Article 53
The salary, wares, or other remunerations shall be paid
direct to the mariner in currency and in full, unless other-
wise provided by law, orinnnce, or by collective agreement.
The salary, wages or other remunerations except those
provided by Ordinance shall be paid once or more each month
on the fixed day, or days.
Article 54
The shipowner shall without delay pay a mariner such
salary, wages or any other remuneration provided for in
paragraph 2 of the preceding Article even before the pay-
day in respect of every day of service, in the case faliing
under any of the following items:
1. If a mariner has been discharged, or has retired,
from his service;
2.
If a mariner has demanded his salary, wages or any
other remuneration to be paid in order that any of
them may be used by the mariner, or by any one of
his relatives who is living with him or by a person
who maintains his eristence upon the income of such
mariner, to mcet thc expense for mafriage or funeral,
childbirth or medical treatment, or the expense for
the recovery from an unforeseen accident.
12

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
Article 55
When the salary, wapes or any other remuneration of a
seaman is to be paid on board the vessel, the master himself
shall deliver the same to the seeman. When an unavoidable
necessity arises, however, the master may cause another of-
ficer to deliver the same.
Article 56
The shipowner shell, if called upon by a mariner to do
so, pay the salary, wares, or any other remuneretion of the
mariner to one of his relatives who is living with him or to
a person who maintains his existence upon the income of such
mariner.
(Right to Demand Salary or Weges During Infury or Sickness)
Article 57
A mariner may, during the term of his engagement, Homand
his salary or wages and allowances provided for in Ordinance
even for the period during which he has not been in service
by reason of in jury or sickness, eycept where such injury or
sickness is due to a wiful act or gross default on the part
of the mariner.
(Remuneration in Percentage)
Article 58
In case where the remuneration is paid in percentage,
the sum of such rmuneration shall not be less than the amount
fixed by the shipowner, cven if the monthly sum computed in
percentage does not amount to the fixed amount.
In the application of the provisions of Article 35 and
the preceding Article, the fixed amount of remuneration as
provided for in the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to be
salary or wages.
In cases where the remuneration of a mariner is paid in
percentage, the amount fiyed by the shipowner shall he deemed
to be the mariner's monthly salary or wages, in the application
of the provis1ons of Article 45, 46, 49 and 78.
The amount mentioned in the proceding paragraph shall
not he less than the fixed amount provided for in paragraph 1.
(Minimum Salary or Wages)
Article 59
The competent authorities may, if they deem necessary,
fix the minimum amount of salary, wages or any other re-
munerations in accordence with the provisions of Ordinance,
with the consent of the Labor Commission organized under the
Labor Union Law (hereinafter called the Mariners' Labor Com-
mission).
The shipowner shall not.employ a mariner at a salary,
wages or any other remuneration lower than the minimum amount
provided for in the preceding paragraph.
13

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
CHAPTER-VI
HOURS. OF WORK,REST DAYS AND MANNING.
(Hours-of Work.of Peraons Whose
Time is Divided.Into Watchea)
Article 60
The hours of work of the following. persons whose time
is to be divided into watches, shall not exceed eight in the
day, nor shall they exceed fifty-six in the week, when they
keep watch on board tho vessel.
1. Deck officers, wireless operators and deck ratings
 on board. the vessels of not less than 2,0oo tons gross;
2. Engineer-officers and ratings on board the vessels
of not less than 700 tons gross.
The master, without pro judice to the protisibns of the
preceding paragreph, may extend the hours of work within the
following limits:
1. Not. moro than one hour per day in respect of the
hours of work of deck officers or wireless opera
tors whose time is divided into watches;
2. In cases where the master has, out of special neces-
:sity, increased thc number of deck officers or wire-
less operntors whose time is divided into watches
not more than four hours per day in respect of such
increased persons;
3.
Hours necessary for the regular alternation of
wa'tches or for the throwing eway of cinders, in
respect of the hours of.work of engineer-ratings
whose time is divided into. watches.
(Sea. Wetch While the Vessel is in Port).
Article 61
Sea watches shall be suspended while the vessel 1s in
port, except within twelve hours after its entry, or twelve
hours.bofore its scheduled time of clearance, or whore the
master deems necessary for the safety of the vessel.
(Hours of Work of Persons Whose
Time is not Divided into Watches)
Article 62
The hours of work at sea and on errival and sailing
days of those officers and ratings in the deck and engine-
room departments on board vessels of not less than 7oo gross
tons whose time 1s not, divided into watches shall not exceed
eight in the day nor shell-they exceed forty-eight in the
week.
14

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
S
MARINERS LAW
(Hours of Work and Holidays
while the Vessel is in port)
Article 63
The hours of work in port (except on arrival and sail-
ing days: the same epplying correspondingly to the follow-
ing articles) of deck and engineer officers and wireless
operators and of deck and engineer-ratings shall not exceed
eight in the day nor shall they exceed forty-eight in the
week cxcept in ceses where their time is divided into watches
in accordance with the provision of Article 61.
The shipowner shall, while the vessel is in port, give
at leest one rost day per week to a seaman mentioned in the
preceding paragraph.
When an unavoidable circumstance occurs, the master may,
not-withstanding the provision of the preceding paragraph,
cause a seaman mentioned in paragraph i to do a necessary
work even on a rest day, provided, however, that the limit
of forty-eight hours of work per week shali not be exceeded
thereby.
(Hours of Work of Ratings in Catering
and Clerical Departments)
Articlc 64
Hours of rest at sea of ratings in the catering and
clerical departmonts on board the vessel with a capacity of
more than twelve passengers shall not be less than twelve in
the day.
The hours of rest mentioned in the preceding paragraph
shall include a rest of at least eight consecutive hours.
Article 65
The hours of work at sen and on arrival and sailing
days of ratings in the catoring and clerical departments on
board the vessels, excepting those mentioned in paragraph 1
of the preceding article, shell not exceed cight in tho day.
Tf the master deems necessary, however, he may extend them
within the limit of two hours por day.
Article 66
The hours of work in port of ratings in the catering
and clerical departments shall not excced eight in the day, un-
less otherviise provided by the collective agreements.
(Overtime Work and Allowances Therefor)
Article 67
When an urgont neccssity arises, the master may cause any
seaman to engage in work in excess of the limit hours provided
for 1n Articles 6C, 62, Article 63 paragraph 1, the proviso
of Article 63 paragraph 3, Article 65 and the preceding arti-
cle, or may reduce the hours of rest mentioned in Article 64
paragraph i, or shall not have to give a rest of cight con-
secutive hours notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 2
of the same article.
15

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
When the hours of work have been extended, or the houns
of rest have been reduced, or the rest. of.eight consecutive
hours has not been 'given under the provision.of. the preged-
ing paragraph, the shipowner shall pay such. overtime allow-
ances as provided by rdinance.
The mester shail, in accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance, keep on board the vessel a book in which an entry
is to be made of matters connected with the overtime allow-
ances mentioned in the preceding. paragreph.
(Exceptions)
Article 68
The provisions of Article' 60 and Articles 62 to 67 in-
clusive shall not appl in ceses where. seamen are engaped in
any of the following works under the master's order.
1. An urgent work necessary for the safe'ty of human
life, the vessel or the cargo, or for the purpose
of rendering assistance to persons or other vessels;
2.
Fire, lifeboat and similar drills of the kind;
3
Extra work resulting from.the reduction in the.
number of serviceeble scamen due to injury, sickmess,
death, or any other unforeseen accident.
Extra work for the purpose of customs,.quarantine
or other health formalities;
5.
Work for the determination of the position .of. the
vessel at noon.
(Manning)
Article-69
The shipowner, unless otherwise provided by ordinance,
shall fix the minimum requirements as to manning and embark
such seamen for service' on board the vessel in order to
comply with the provisions of Articles 60 to 66 inclusive.
If, in the course of a voyage, any reduction in the
number of seamen has taken place, the shipowner shall, with-
out dolay, complement a necessary number thereof.
.Article 70
The minimum numher of deck ratings whose time is to be
divided into watches on board the vessels of not less than
700 gross tons shall be nine, and not less then three of them
shall be availeble for each navigational watch. However, in
the case of vessels of not more than 2,co0 gross tons, six
ratings shall be sufficient for the minimum number.
Included among the minimum number mentioned in the preced-
ing peragreph shall be no ratin~s with less than one year's
sea service on deck, except es otherwise fixed by the col-
lective agreement.
-1.6

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
More than one half of thé minimum number mentioned in
the first paragraph must be over eighteen years of age and
either have had at least three years' service on deck or have
been granted a certificete issued by the competent authorfties
under the provisions of ordinance showing that their standard
efficiency is equal to that of the average ratings who have
had three years' sea service on deck.
(Scope of Application)
Article 71
The provisions of articles 60 to: the preceding article
1nclusive shall not apply in respect of the following vessels:
1. A vessel of less than 1,ooo gross tons which navigates
within the partially smooth water area or the smooth
water area and among domestic.ports exclusively
(excepting such a vessel as the competent authorities
may dosignate through the deliberation of the Mariners'
Labor Commission);
2. A sailing-vessel;
3. A vessel engaged in fishing.
Article 72
The provisions of Articles 60.to 70 inclusive shall not
apply to the following persons:
1. Chief officers in the deck, engine-room and
wireless depertments whose time is not divided into
we tches;
2.
Doctors and steff exclusively engaged in compound-
ing medieines or on nursing duties.
Article 73
The competent Minister may, if he deems necessary,
1ssue necessary orders regarding the hours of work, rest
days and manning of mariners to whom the provision of
Articles 60 to 70 inclusive are not applied with the resolut-
ion of the Mariners' Labor Commission.
CHAPTER VII
HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
(Granting of Holidays With Pay)
Article 74
If a mariner has had continuous sea service of a year
on board the same vessel, (including service while the vessel
is being equipped or under repairs: the same applying cor-
respondingly to the following articles), the shipowner.shall,
within one vear from such duration of time, give the mariner
holidays with pay. If the vessel is on a voyage, however, the
shipowner may postpone bestowal of such holidays with pay
for a perind necessary for the voyage.
17

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
In cases where a mariner has left .the service of one
vessel for that of another engaged in the same kind of under-
taking, the periods of service which precede and follow the
change of vessels shall be 'deemed to have continued on board
the same vessel.
If, in cases where the periods of sea service are in-
terrupted, the interruption is not due to a wilful act or
default on the part of the mariner and the period of inter-
ruption does not exceed a total of six weeks, such inter-
ruption shall not be deemed to break the continuity of the
periods of service which precede and follow it.
(Pe riod of Holidays With Pay)
Article 75
Every meriner shall be granted twenty-five days off with
pay after every year of continuous service and additional
five days for every additional three months of continuous
service.
Every mariner on board the vessel navigating within the
partielly smooth water area or the smooth water aree and
among domestic ports cyclusively; shall be granted twelve
days off with pay after overy year of continuous service, and
additional two days for cvery additional three months of
continuous service, without prejudice to the provisions of the
preceding paragraph.
Article 76
In cases where the shipowner grants a mariner any time
off for weekly rest days and public'and customary holidays
or holidays in l1eu thereof, such time shall not be included
in the holidays with pay mentioned in the preceding article.
The same shall apply in respect to interruptions of sea
service due to the mariner's injury or sickness.
(Method of Granting Holidays With Pay)
Article 77
The time when and the port where mariner is to be given
holidays with pay shall be fixed by mutual agreement of the
mariner and the shipowner.
The period of holidays with pay may, 1n accordance with
the provisions of the coliective agreement, be given in parts.
(Remunerations During Holidays With Pay)
Article 78
The shipowner shall pay a mariner salary or wages and.
allowances and fond expenses provided for in ordinance during
the full period of the holidays with pay.
The shipowner shall pay a mariner who is discharged or
retired from his service before the mariner has taken a
holiday due to him, the selary or wages and allcwance and
food expense provided for in the preceding paragraph, in
respect of every haliday due to him.
18

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Scope of Arplication)
Article 79
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply in respect
to the following vessels:
1. Vessels engaged in fishing;
2. Vessels on which only members of the same family
with the shipowner are employed.
CHAPTER VIII
FOOD AND SANITATION
(Supply.of Food)
Article 80
The shipowner shall, in accordance with the provisions
of ordinance, provide food to a mariner during the period of
his son service.
The mariner on board the vessei of not less than 700
gross tons which navigates within the oceangoing area or the
coasting area or on board such a fishing vest as is provided
for in ordinance, shall be provided with food ccording to
the food table fixed by the competent Minister.
(Certificate of Health)
Article 81
The shipowner shall not take into sea service any per-
son who does not possess a certificste of health whereby a
doctor designatcd by the competent authorities proves that he
is fitted for sea service. This shell not, however, apply
to a case where an unavoidable necessity arises.
In the case contemplated in the proviso of the preced-
inr paragraph, the shipowner shall without delay take a
procedure in order that such a person may obtain a cer-
tifieate of health at a port reached thereafter. In such
case, the shipowner shall not continue to employ a person who
1s unable to reccive a certificnte of health.
Necessary matters connected with certificates of health
shall be provided by ordinance.
(Carrying of Doctors)
Article 82
The shipowner shall see that a vessel of not less than
5,ooo gross tons which navigates within the oceangoing area
or a vessel. with a maximum capacity of not less than 1oo per-
sons. which navigates within the oceangoing area or the. coast-
ing area will carry a doctor or doctors.
However, if, in cases where an unavoidable necessity
arises, approvel has been ohtained from the competent authori-
ties, it is not necessary to carry such doctor for a certain
fixed period.
19

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
(Health Requ!rementscand Medical. Books)
Artiole:83
The shipowner shall see that a vessel which navigates
within the, oceangoing area, the coasting area or the partial-
ly smooth water.area or a fishing-vessel. proyided for in.
ordinance will.carry on board such.medicinea,aother health
requirements and medioal books as the competent Minister,
prescribes,
CHAPTER IX
JUVENILE MARINERS AND WOMEN MARINERS
(Competency of Minors)
Article.84
No minor shall become a mariner without obtaining the
consgnt of his legal representative.
A minor who has obtained the consent mentioned in the
preceding paragreph, shall have the same competency as an
edult in respect of e contract of engagement.
(Minimum Age).
Article 85
Tho shipowner shall not en employ a young person under
fifteen years of age as a mariner. This shall not, however,
apply to vessels on which only members of the same family are
employed.
The shipowner shall not employ a young person under
eighteen years of age as.a seaman who engages in carrying coal
or"in stocking.
The shipowmer cennot employ a young person. under eighte-
en years of age as a mariner unless the person has his pocket-
lodger attested by the compotent authorities.
Necessary matters connected with tho attestatron mentioned
in the precedinr paregraph shall be provided by grdinance
(Women Before and After Childbirths)
Article 86
The shipowner, if so called upon by a woman whose con-
finement will probably take place within six weeks, shall not
cause her to work on board a vessel.
The shipowner shell not take into sea service a woman
unless six weeks' time has elapsed since her Childbirth.
The shipowner, if so called upon by a pregnant woman,
shall make her engage in. bther lighter work.
The provisions of the three preceding paragraphs shall
not apply to a vessel on which only members of the same.
family are employed.
20

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
(Menstrual Holidays)
Article 87
The. shipowner, 1f so called upon by a woman who finds it
very :hard to work for menatrual days,  shall not make her
engage in work on board a vessel during her menstrual days.
(Prohibition of Work at Night)
Article 88
The shipowner shall not cause a mariner under eighteen
years of age or a female mariner to do any work durinr the
period between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m. of the next morning. The
same shall not apply in cese provided by ordinance where the
shipowner rives a nine consecutive hourst rest between other
times before and after midnight.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not ap-
ply to.a vessel on which only members of the same family with
the shipowner are 'employed.
CHAPTER X
COMPENSATIONS FOR ACCIDENTS
(Compensation for Medical Treatment)
Article 89
When a mariner has sustained an injury or contracted
a sickness in the performance of his duties, the shipowner
shall grant him medical benefits at the shipowner's expense
or pay him the cost of necessary medical treatment until he
has completely recovered from such injury or sickness.
When a mariner has, during the term of his engagement,
sustained an inlury or contracted a sickness without relation
to the performance of his duties, the shipowner shall grant
him medical benefits at the shipowner's expense or pay him the
cost of necessary medical treatment.for a period not exceed-
ing three months, except in cases where such in jury or sick-
ness is due to a wiful act or gross default on the part of
the mariner.
Article 90.
The medical henefits or treatment provided for in the
preceding article shall include each of the following items:
Modical examinations;
2.
Supply of drugs, medicines or medical appliances;
3:
Surrical treatments, operations or other remedies;
4.
Admission to hospitals or clinics or other places
outside mariners' homes necessary for medical treat-
monts (including supply of food);
5.
Sick-nursing;
6.
Transportetion.
21

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Injury or Sickness Allowances and
Convalescence Allowances)
Article 91
When a mariner has sustained an inlury or contracted a
sickness in the performance of his duties, the shipowner shall
pay him, once a month, an injury or sickness allowance equiv-
alent to the monthly amount of the remuneration provided for
in ordinance (hereinafter called the standard remuneration)
for a period not exceeding four months and until the mariner
has completely recovered from such injury or sickness.
In cases where the mariner has not completely recovered from
such in jury or sickness even after the lapse of the four
months, the shipowner shall pay him, once a month, an injury
or sickness allowance equivalent to sixty per centum of the
monthly standard remuneration until he has completely recovered.
The shipowner shall, immediately after the mariner has
completely recovered from the injury or sickness provided for
in the preceding paragraph, pay him a convalescence allowance
equivalent to sixty per centum of the monthly standard remu-
neration.
The provisions of the two preceding paregraphs shall not
apply in cases where the in jury or sickness is due to a wiful
act or gross default on the part of the mariner.
(Accident Allowances)
Article 92
If, in cases where a mariner has completely recovered
from injury or sickness which he sustained or contracted in the
performance of his duties, he is still in a state of physical
breakdown, the shipowner shall, immediately after the recovery,
pay him an accident allowance equal to the monthly standard
remuneration multiplied by the number of months mentioned in
the Appended List according to the degree of the breakdown.
The same shall not, however, apply in cases where the infury
or sickness is due to a wilful act or gross default on the
part of the mariner.
(Bereavement Allowances)
Article 93
When a mariner has died in the performance of his duties,
the shipowner shall without delay pay a bereavement allowance
equivalent to the monthly standard remuneration multiplied by
thirty-six to the members of the bereaved family provided for
by ordinance. The same shall apply in cases where a mariner
has died from injury or sickness which he sustained or coni
tracted in the performance of his duties.
22

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Funeral Expenses)
Article 94
When a mariner has died in the the performance of his
duties, the shipowner shall without delay pay a funeral ex-
pense eguivalent to the monthly standard remuneration multi-
plied by two to a member of the bereaved family, provided for
by ordinance, who holds the funeral services. The same shall
apply in cases where a mariner.has died from injury or sick-
ness which he sustained or'contracted in the performance of
his'duties.
(Relations to Other Benefits)
Article 95
If a person who is entitled. under the provisions of
Articles 89 to the preceding Article inclusive, to receive
medical benefits or expenses of medical treatments, allow-
ances or funeral expenses (hereinafter collectively called
the compensations for accidents), has come to receive, for
the same cause whoreby he is entitled to receive such com-
pensations for accidents, the insurance benefits provided for
in the Meriners' Insurance Law or such benefits corresponding
to the compensations for accidents as are provided for by
ordinance, the shipowner shall be relieved of his liability
for such compensations for accidents.
(Examination and Arbitration)
Article 96
When a person is.dissatisfied with the ascertainment of
1njury; sickness or death caused by the performance of duties,
with the method of medical benefits or treatments, with the
decision of making compensations for accidents or with any
other way of making compensations for accidents, he may call
upon competent authorities for an examination or arbitration in
the matter.
The competent authorities may, if they deem necessary, ex-
ercise'their authority in examinins or arbitrating in the matter,
The competent authorities shall not either examine or
arbitrate in the matter without siving a hearing to the master
or to other persons concerned.
The competent authorities may, 1f they deem necessary
for examination and arbitration in the matter, cause a doctor
to conduct a medical examination or an autopsy.
The call for the examinetion or the arbitration 1n the
matter mentioned in paregraph 1 and the commencement of the
examination or the arbitration in the matter mentioned in
paragraph 2 shall be regerded as a demand by way of fudicial
proceedings, in respect of the interruption of prescription.
23

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
CHAPTER XI
WORKING RF GULATIONS
(Formulation of Working Regula-
tions end Report Thereof)
Article 97
A shipowner who regularly employs ten or more mariners
shall, in accordance with the provisions of ordinance, formu-
late working regulations for the following particulars and
report them to the competent authorities. The same shall
apply in cese where alterations are made therein:
1. Salary or wages; and othor remunerations;
2. Hours of work;
3. Days of rest and holidays.
When the shipowner mentioned in the preceding paragraph
has formulated working regulations for the following parti-
culars, he shall report them to the competent authorities.
The same shall apply in ceses where alterations are made therein:
1. Manning;
2.
Food and sanitation;
3.
Clothing and daily necessities;
4.
Facilities on land of accommodation, recreation,
medical treatment and amusoment;
5.
Compensations for accidents;
6.
Unemployment sllowances, discharge allowances and re-
tiring allowances;
7.
Repatriation;
8.
Education;
9.
Rewards and punishments;
10. other working conditions.
An association which is a juridical person consisting
of shipowners may formulate working regulations which are to
apply to those constituent shipowners mentioned in paragraph
1 and make a report thereon. The same shall apply in cases
where alterations are made therein.
In case the report thereon has been made in accordance
with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the ship-
owners provided therein are not required to make the said
working regulations, make the report on the formulation or
on the alteration thereof.
The report provided for in paragraphs 1.to 3 inclusive
shall accompany a document containing the opinions expressed
under the provision of Article 98.
24

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Procedures of Formulating Working Reguletions).
Article .98
The shipowner or the Juridical person provided for in
the preceding Article, paragraph 3-cannot make or alter.the
working regulations without giving a hearing to a labor union,
1f there is any that is organized by more than half of the
mariners in the employ of the shipowner to whom the working
regulations apply, or to the representatives of more than half
of such mariners, 1f there is no labor union organized by more
than half of the mariners.
(Supervision Over Working Regulations)
Article 99
The competent authorities may order alteration of the
working regulations containing elements which are in conflict
with laws, ordinances or collective agreements.
The competont authorities may, if they deem the working
repulations to be. inappropriate,.order alteration thereof with
the resolution of the Mariners' Labor Commission.
(Effect of Working Regulations)
Article 100
Such portion of a contract of engagement as contains provi-
sion for working conditions failing short of the standard
fixed in the workinf regulations, shall be invalidated. In
such case the contract shall, in respect of the portion thus
invalidated, be deemed to contain provision for working con-
ditions coming up to the standard fixed in the working re-
gulations.
CHAPTER XII
SUPFRVISION
(Competent Authorities)
Article..101
The competent authorities may, 1f they consider that some
act of a shipowner or e mariner is in conflict with this
Law, the Labor Standards Law (only the portions applying to
mariners' Iabor relations: the same applying correspondingly
to the following articles) or ordinances issued under this
Law, deal with the shipowner or the mariner in such a manner
as they may necessary.
Article 1C2
The competent authorities may exercise their good offices
to settle troubles concerning labor relations (except the
labor disputes provided for in Article 6 of the Labor Rela-
tions Ad justment Law) between tho. shipowner and the mariners.
25

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Business of Competent Authorities
In Foreign Countrtes)
Article 103
The business which the competent authorities are re-
quired by this Law to discharge shall, under the provisions
of Ordinance, be conducted by Japanese consuls in foreign
countries.
(Meyors and Headmen of Towns And Villages
Undertaking Business of Competent- Authorities)
Article 104
The competent Minister may cause the mayor of a city,
or the headman of a town or a village to undertake the business
which the competent authorities are required by this Law to
discharge.
(Mariners' Lebor Inspectors)
Article 105
The competent Minister shall appoint Mariners' Labor
Inspectors from among his subordinate officials and .cause them
to control matters connected with the enforcement of this Law
and the Lahor Standards Law.
Article 106
The Mariners' Labor Inspector may, if he deems neces-
sary, warn or urge shipowners or mariners to observance of
this Law, the Labor Standards Law and ordinances issued
under this Law.
Article 107
The Mariners' Labor Inspector may, if he deems neces-
sary, make & search of the vessel or any other place of
work or may order shipowners or mariners to call or produce
bonks and documents or to make reports or may ask auestions
of such persons.
The Mariners' Lebor Inspector may, if'he deems neces-
sary, ask questions of a pessenger or any other person on
board the vessel.
In the cases contemplated in the two preceding para-
graphs, the Mariners' Labor Inspector shali carry with him an
identification card testifying to his official status.
Article 108
The Mariners' Labor Inspector shall exercise the Judicial
police powers provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure
in respect of offences under this Law and the Labor Standards
Law.
Article 109
The Mariners' Labor Inspector shall not break any secrets
that he has learned in the performance of his duties. The
same shall also apply Iin the case where he. has left his office
a's. a Mariners' Labor Inspeetor:
26

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Powers of Mariners' Labor Commission)
Article 110
The Mariners' Labor Commission shall, in addition to the
exercise of the powers provided for in the Labor Union Law,
investigate and deliberete, in response to request from the
competent authorities, matters connected with the enforcement
or revis1on of this Law nnd the Labor Standerds Law.
The Mariners' Labor Commission may present the competent
authorities a recommendation concerning the mariners' working
conditions.
(Matters to Be Reported)
Article 111
The shipowner shall, in accordance with the provisions
of ordinance, present a report to the competent authorities
on the following particulars:
1. Number of mariners in his employ;
2.
Stete in which salary, wages, or other remunerations
arc paid;
3.
State in which compensations are made for accidents;
4.
other matters provided for in ordinances.
(Complaints of Mariners)
Article112
If there is any fact which is in conflict with this Lew.
the. Labor Standards Law or ordinances 1ssued under this Law,
a mariner may, in accordance with the provisions of ordinance,
lodge a complnint respecting the fact with the competent au-
thorities, the Mariners' Labor Inspector or the Mariners!
Labor Commission.
The shipowner shall not discharge a mariner or give him
any other disadvantageous treatment because of the mariner's
lodging the complaint mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
CHAPTER XIII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
(Notificntion of Working Regulations Etc.)
Article 113
The shipowner shall post at some noticeable place on
board the vessel the documents containing this Law; the Labor
Standards Law, tho ordinances issued under this Law, the col-
lective agreements and the working reguletions or keep such
documents on board the vessel.
27

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Adiustment of Remunerat1ons
Compensations and Allowances)
Article 114
In regard to the period during which the shipowner is
required to pay at the same time any two or more out of salary,
wages or other remuneration, unemployment allowance, repatria-
tion allowance or injury or sickness allowance, it shall suf-
fice for him to pay eny one whose amount is the largest of
them all.
If, in the case where the shipowner is required to pay
salary, wages or other rmuneration, he 1s to pay either dis-
charge allowance or convalescence allowance he shall he rolieved
of his liability for such discharge allowance or convalescence
allowance to the extent of his p yment of such salary, wages
or other remuneration.
(Prohibition of Transfer or Attachment)
Article 115
The right to reccive the unemployment allowance, dis-
charge allowance, repatriation expense or the compensation
for accident shall bo inalienable and shall not be liable to
attachment. Tho same shall apply to tho rirht to receive
salary, wages or other remuneration (within the limit of the
amount of the injury or sickness allowance) during the period
in which the salary, wages or other remuneration and the in-
jury or sickness allowance are to be paid at the same time.
(Payment of Penalty)
Article 116
In cases where the shipowner has committed any offence
under Articles 45 to 47 inclusive, Article 49, Article 59
Paragraph 2, Article 67 paragranh 2 or Article 78, he shall
pay the mariner a penalty couivalent to the unpeia amount
(in the case contemplated in Article 59 paragraph 2 the balance
between the minimum amount provided for in the same article
and the amount of salary, wages or other remuneration fiyed
by contract) when a demand is made as provided by paragraph
2 for the amount (or the repatriation expense in the case con-
templated in Article 47) which the shipowner 1s required to
pay in accordance with the above-mentioned articles.
A mariner cannot emnnd peyment of the penalty mentioned
in the proceding paragraph without filing suit in a court.
Such suit shall, however, he filed with the court within two
years from the time of committing the.offences mentioned in
the same paragraph.
28

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
(Exceptions to Prescription)
Article 117
Ecery claim of the meriner apainst the shipowner shall
be barred by prescription, if it is not instituted within
two years. The same shall aprly to claims for the bereave-
ment allowance and funeral expenses against the shipowner.
(Aprlicetion with Modificetions)
hrticle 118
The provisions of Artirles 31 to 34 inclusive, Article
84 paragraph 2 and Article 100 shall apply with necessary
modifications to a contract for the employment of a reservist.
(Certification As to Census)
Article 119
Any mariner, anyono who intonds to become a mariner,
any shirowner or master may, call upon a census official or
his deputy to issue, free of chargo, a census certificate
for such mariner or a person who intonds to become a mariner.
(Application to State and Public Fntities)
Article 120
This Law, the Lebor Standards Lew and the ordinance
issued under this Law shall aprly to the State, Tokyo, Hok-
kaido, prefectures, cities, towns, villages and similar
public entities.
(Enaction of Ordinances)
Article 122
No orainance that is to be issued under this Law shall
be enacted unless en eytensive hearing is given in respect
of draft thereof to representetives of the mariners and of
the shipowners and to representatives for the public interesta.
CHAPTER XIV
PENAL PRCVISIONS
Article 122
If a master has, by abusing his power, oompelled any
person on board the vessel to do anything beyond the scope of
such person's duty, or hes obstructed any person in the ex-
ercise of his right, the master shall be liable to penal
servitude for not more than two yeers.
Article 123
If a master has contravened the provisions of Article 12,
he shall be liable to penal sorvitude for not more than five
years.
29

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
Article 124
If e master has, in contravention of the provisions of
Article 13, failed to take every possible means necessary for
the salving of human life or vessel, he shall be liable to
penal servitude. for not more than three years or to a fine
not more then three thousend yen.
Article 125
A master shall he liable to penal servitude for not ex-
ceeding two years or to a fine not more than two thousand yen
in any of the following cases:
i. If he has contravened the provisions of Article 14;
2. If he has abandoned the vessel;
3. If he has deserted any seaman in a foreign country.
Article 126
A master shall be liable to n fine not more than three
thousand yen in any of the following cases:
1. If he has contravened. the provisions of Articles
8, 10, 11, 16, Article 17 paragraph 1, Article 36,
Article 50 paragraph 2, or Article 55.
2.
If, in contravention of the provisions of Article 9,
he hes deviated from the predetermined routo;
3:
If, in contravention of the provisions of Article
13, he has failed to rive any of the names;
4.
If, in contravention of the ordinance issued under
the provisions of.Article 15, he has buried the body
at soa;.
5.
If he has feiled to keep aboard the documents pro-
vided for in Article 18, or if he has made no entry,
or has made any false entry, of the required parti-
culars in the documents provided for in items 2 to 4
inclusive of paragraph 1 of the same Article;
6.
If he has made no report, or has made a false report,
provided for in Article 19;
7.
If ho has kent aboard no book provided for in Article
67 paragraph 3, or has made no entry, or has made
any false entry, of the required particulars.
Article 127
If a seaman has done any viclence or made any threat to
his superior, he shell be liable to penal servitude for not
more than three.years or to a fine not exceeding three thou-
sand yen.
Article 128
A soaman shall be liable to penal sorvitude for not more
than one yeer in any of the following cases:
1. If, in a case where there is an imminent danger to
the vessel, he has left the vessel without the master's
permission;
30

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
MARINERS LAW
2. If, 1n the case contemplated in Articles 12 to 14
inclusive where the master takes means necessary to
salve humen life, the vessol or the cargo, he has
refused to obey the orders of his superior;
.3.
If, in the case contemplated in Article 39 paragraph
3, he has failed to render servicea:necessary for
the emergency salvinr of human life, the vessel or.
the cargo;
If he has deserted from the vessel in a foreign country.
Article 129.
If a shipowner has contravened the provisions of Article
85. paragraph 1 or 2, he shall be liable to penal servitude for
not more than one vear or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
yen.
Article 130
If a shipowner has contravened the provisions of Article
33, Article 34.paragraph 1, Articles 35, 45 to 47 inclusive,
49, Article 59 paragraph 2, Article 63 paragraph 2, Article
67 paragraph 2, Art1cle8 69, 70, 74, 78, 80, 82, 83, 86,, 88,
89, 91 to 94 inclusive or Article 112 paregraph 2, or if he
has contravened the provisions of the ordinance 1ssued under
the provisions of Article 73, he shall be liable to penal
servitude for not more then six months or to a fine not ex-
ceeding five thousand yen.
. Article 131.
A shipowner shall be liable to a fine not more then'
five thousand yen in any of the following cases:
1. If he has contravened the provisions of Article 32,
Article 34 paracreph 2, Articles 53, 54, 56, Article
58 peragraph 1, Article 81 peragraph 1 or 2, Article
85 paragraph 3, Article 87, or Article 113;..
2.
If he has acted agninst the method of keepine or.
returning approved under the provisions of Article
34 paragra ph 2;
3. If he has made no report, or has made a false report,
provided for in Article ill.
Article 132
A person shall be liable to a fine not more than five
thousand yen in any of the followinp cases:
1. If he has failed to formulate the working règulations,
or has made no report or has made false report there-
on, provided for in Article 97;
2.
If he has contravened the provisions of Article 98;
3.
If he hes contravened the ordinance issued under
the provisions of Article 99;
4.
If he hes acted against the dealings provided for
in Article 101;
31

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
5. If he has refused, obstructed or evaded the search
or examination, or has refused to obey the orders
of call, or has failcd to make a statement, or
has made a falsc statement; on the question of a
Mariners' Lahor Inspector provided in Article l07;
6.
If he has failed to produce the books or documents
provided for in Article l07, or has produced books
or documents containin: false entries, or has failed
to make a report or has made a false report;
7.
If he has contravened the provisions of Article l09;
8.
If, in the case contemplated in Article 112 para-
graph 1, he has filed a false complaint.
Article 133
A person shall be liable to a fine not more than threè
thousand yen in any of the following cases:
1. If he has failed to call, for certification of the
contract of ongagement in contravention of Article 37;
2.
If he has had the contract of engagement certificd
by fraud or by any other unlawful means;
3.
If he has thrown away or destroyed his own mariner's
pocket-ledger;
4.
If he has contravened the ordinance 1ssued under
the provision of Article 50 paragraph 3;
5.
If he has had his mariner's pockot-ledger granted,
revised or rewritten by fraud or by any other un-
lawful means;
6.
If he has used the meriner's pocket-ledger of some
other person.
Article 134
The provisions of this Chapter which are to be applied
to masters shall be epplied to persons who perform the duties
of masters in their place.
Article 135
If any repre sentative, agent, employee or any other worker
of a shipowner has, in r spect of the business of the ship-
owner, acted in contravention of the provisions of Articles
129 to 13i inclusive, Article 132 items 1 to 3 inclusive and
6 or Article 133 itoms 1 and 2, the fine provided for in the
articles reforred to shall be imposcd upon the said ship-
owner in addition to tho punishment meted out to the actual
offender, except where the shipowner (or the representative
in the case of a minor vho does not have the same competency
as an adult or of an incompetent; the same applying cor-
respondingly to the following paragraphs of this Article) has
taken-necessary mee sures for the prevention of such contreven-
tion.
32

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
If, in the case contemplated in the precedino paragraph,
a shipowner has, 1n spite of his knowledge of the project for
contravention, failed to take eny necessary measures for the
prevention thereof, or has failed, in spite of his knowledge
of the act of contravention, to take necessary measures for the
correction thereof or has instigated the contravention. tho
shipowner also shall be punished as an actual offender.
If the representative, agent, employee or any other worker
of the asscciation provided for in Article 97 paragraph 3 has
acted in contravontion of the provisions of Article 132, items
1 to 3 inclusive the prov1sions of the two preceding paragraph
shall be applied with necessary modifications.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Articlo 136
This Law except the provisions of Chapter X shall come
into force. as from the date of its promulgation. The date of
enforcement of the provisions under Chapter X shall be design-
ated by ordinance.
Articlo 137
The Small-type Vessel Crew's Pocket-Ledger Law shall be
repealed.
Article 138
The provisions of the proviso of Article 68 paragraph
3 of the former Mariners Law shall still be effective even
after the enforcement of this Lew.
Article 139
The provisions of the former Law shall be aprlied to
matters which have occurred prior to the. enforcement of this
Law.
Article 140
The provisions of Article 18 shall not be aprlied to ves-
sels of loss than 20 gross tons or to those navigating within
smooth water areas, for the pericd of six months from the date
of enforcement of this Law.
Article 141
Such contracts of engagement of the persons who serve on
board the vessels provided for in the preceding article as are
existent at the time of enforcement of this Law, shall be deem-
ed to have been concluded et that time, in respect of the ap-
plication of the provisions of Article 37.
Article 142
The provisions of Articles 60 to 70 inclusive shall not
be applied to those wartime standard vessels which the com-
petent authorities have dosignated, with the resclution of the
Mariners' Labor Committee, as not having sufficient accommoda-
tion to setisfy the minimum requirements as to manning provided.
for in Article 69.
33

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINERS LAW
Article 143
The provisions of Article 83 shall not be applied to
vessels navigating within partially smooth water areas, for
the period of six months from the date of enforcement of this
Law.
Article 144
When a young person under fifteen years of age is to be
employed as a mariner, or a young person under eighteen years
of age is to be employed as a seeman who engages in carrying
coal or in stoking, in continuation of their employment before
the enforcement of this law, the provision of Article 85 shall
not be applied to them for the period of six months from the
date of enforcement of this Law.
Article 145
The provisions of Article 67 paragraph 3, Articles 97
and 1l3 shall not be apnlied for the period of six months
from the dete of enforcement of this Law.
Article 146
The following partial amendments shall be made in the
Commercial Code:
Article 708 shall be deleted.
Article 709. The mester shall keep on board the vessel
the inventory of the ship's appurtenances &nd the documents
relating to contracts of carriage.
It may be provided by ordinance in respect of a vessel
which is not a foreign going vessel that the inventory of the
ship's appurtenances mentioned in the preceding paragraph
need not be kept on board.
Article 7ic shall be deleted.
Article 7ll shall be deleted.
The provisions of Articles 708 to 71l inclusive shall
still he offective in cases where the applications of those
provisions are necessary in connection with the application
of other laws and ordinances.
Article 147
The following partial amendments shall be made in the
Law Concerning the Enforcement of the Commercial Code;
In Article 122 the term "the Minister of Communications"
shall be revised to "the Minister of Transportation."
Article 13c: The form of the inventory of the ship's
appurtenances shall be fixed by the Minister of Transportation.
34

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.95)
MARINERS LAW
APPENDED LIST
Degree of physical
Number
breakdown
of Months
The First Degree
48 months
The
Second Degree
42
The Third Degree
39
The Fourth Degree
35
The
Fifth Degree
33
The
Sixth Defree
30
The
Seventh Degree
25
1"
The
Eighth Degree
20
The
Ninth Degree
15
The Tenth Degree
12
"
The Pleventh Degrec
9
99
The Twelfth Decree
6
The
Thirteenth Dogree
The
Fourteenth Depree
2
11
35

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.94)
MARINERS LAW
APPENDED LIST
Degree of physical
Number
breakdown
of Months
The
First Degree
48 months
The
Second Degree
42
The Third Decree
39
The
Fourth Derrec
35
9"
The
Fifth Degrce
33
11
The
Sixth Degree
30
11
The
Seventh Defree
25
The
Eighth Derree
20
”
The
Ninth. Degree
15
The
menth Degree
12
The Pleventh Degree
11
The Twelfth Decrce
6
11
The Thirteenth Dorree
The Fourteenth
Depree
2
35

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.96)
MARINERS LAW
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(Mariner)
Article 1
For tho purpose of this Lew, the term "marinor" shall
include every mastor or seaman who scrves on hoard e Japanose
vessel or a non-Japanose vessel provided for in ordinance or
evory rescrvist.
A vossel montioned in the proceding paragraph oxcludes
any of the following vesscls:
1. A vossel of loss than fivo tons gross
2. A vessel navigating lakes, rivors or within harbors
excDusively;
3. A fishing vessel of loss then thirty tons gross.
Articlo 2
The term "scaman" as used in this Law shall include
overy person oxcopt the mastor who is cmployed as a momber of
the crew on a vossol ongaged in maritime navigation for salary,
wagcs or any other rcmuneration to be paid in componsation for
his service.
The term "roserviss" as used in this Law shall include
every person omployod for purpose of sorvine on board the
vossol provided for in paragraph 1 of tho proceding articlo
but not in sorvico thorcon.
Articlo 3
Tho term "officor" es uscd in this Law shell includo
overy mate, chief cngincer, onginoor, wireless operator, and
overy other scamian provided for in ordinance. Tho term
"ratings" shall include evory seamen othor than officers.
(Selary or Wagos and Hours of Work)
Articlo 4
The exprcssion "salary or wagcs" as uscd in this Law
means a basic reguler pay which constitutes a part of tho fixed
periodical payment mado by the shipowner to the mariner by
way of componsation, and the eyprossion "hours of work" meens
timo during which tho mariner is engagod on watch duties or
any other work undor the official ordor of his supcrior.
(Application of Provisions Govorning Shipownors)
Articlc 5
The provisions relative to shipownors of this Law and tho
ordinance issued thercundor shall apply to the" ship''s husband
in tho caso of-co-ownorship, to the lcssco in the case of
leesc, and to tho porsor tn-the cese where. a porsen other than
owner, husbend or lossec or the vossol employs a meriner.
1

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEPHONE: EXECUTIVE 4650
CABLE: NAFAS
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SHIPPING, INC.
1BO9 G STREET, NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON 6, D. C.
FRAZER A. BAILEY
September 22, 1948
ALFRED U. KREBS
PRESIDENT
COUNSEL
SAMUEL D. SCHELL
LAWRENCE A. OOSTERHOUS
VICE-PRESIDENT
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH
JOHN B. FORD
JOHN FORNEY RUDY
SECRETARY-TREASURER
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
W. BRUCE MACNAMEE
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT
EDWARD C. PHILLIPS
DIRECTOR DFTELECOMMUNICATIONS
CR 894.85/9-2248
This Document.Must Be Returned to
Mr. Jesse E. Saugstad
Shipping Division
State Department
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Saugstad:
Industry members represented by this
Federation are greatly concerned about reports which
have reached them concerning the proposed action of
restoring the Japanese merchant marine to a pre-war
level of the years 1930-1934.
The undersigned has personally talked with
Under Secretary Draper, and we have filed with the
Army the enclosed petition representing the industry's
views on this subject.
C
I thought you would be interested in having
a copy.
Very truly yours,
FA.Pare
Frazer A. Bailey
Enclosure
FAB/hw
3
-2
28

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
NATIOFAL FEDERATION OF ALERICAN SHIPPING, INC.
1809 G Street, Northwest
Washington, D. C.
September 22, 1948
William H. Draper, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of the Arry
Departnent of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.
Subjoct: Japanese Lerchant Ilarine
IHy dear Lir. Draper:
Reforring to my letter of Lay 26; your response of June 1,
and to our subsequent conversation with respect to postwar plans
of Japaneso merchant shipping?
As set forth in our letter of lay 26, and as I statod to
you at the time of our meeting, Anericn stoanship owners are con-
siderably concernod about our national policy, and perhaps the
matter of an international policy, respocting the future of Jap-
anese shipping in the international trades. You were kind onough
to advise ie that no definite policy from a national standpoint
had been decided upon, and you invited exprossions from American
steamship owmers repre. ntel y this Foderation concerning such
a policy.
The purposo of this letter is to present such views as are
presently in the minds of the American steamslip owners we ropresent,
comprising about two-thirds of all privately ovned American flag
ships.
We understand there is no certainty at the moment as to
where the final decision will be reached, i. e., whether by the
Department of the Army; the Supreno Cornander of Allied Powers;

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-2-
Baptembe1 22, 1948
the Far Eastern Commiss n; or some other. American governmental or
international tribunal. We also understand that if some agenoy
other than the Department of the Arny is to determine these ques-
tions you wili advise us so that our representations may be made
before the determinativo body.
In the first instance, may we say that the interests we
represent are not unmindful of the task which confronts the United
States and/or the Allied liaticns endeavoring to restore the Jap-
anose national to a level of reasonable living standards and of
reasonable economic stability. lo are equally clear, hovever, that
the effect of these efforts upon our own national econony and upon
those of the Allied lations cannot be ignored.
As stated to you, American shipping interests have no ambi-
tion to monopolize Pacific Ocoan shipping.
The United States has
never attained a maritino position conmensurate with its geographic
and economic status, anu as a leader in the United Nations Organi-
zation. No nation which has failed to maintain its flag upon the
seas has long retained a position of influence and leadership in
world affairs. liistory is replete with examples to the contrary.
The Congress of the United States in passing the ierchant
Marine Act of 1936 stated it to be a national policy that the United
States shall have a merchant marine to carry its domestic water-
borne commerce, a substantial portion of its foreign conmerce, and
capable of serving as a naval and military auxiliary in time of war
or national emergency.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一 3 -
September 22, 1948
In implenenting this national policy we envision a merchant
fleet of modern combination and cargo vessels under the United
States flag manned by Aierican officers and sealen, transporting all
of our domestic coastwise and intercoastal and territory commerce
and at least one-hal of our inports and exports, and backed by a
fleet of modern passonger-car ying vessels providing transportation
and cormmunication betveen the United States and important world
areas. This in effect is the target vhich is in the minds of certain
Anerican ship ing interost: a e believe of a substantial portion
of the American public.
We subit that it is not an overarbitious policy to envision
such an merican merchant fleet. The carriage of one-half of our
own connerce is a oal which has not, however, been reached since the
carly Colonial days vhen our forebears exceeded this achievement by
building and oporating the finest type of vessels the world had
theretofore knowm.
During thc period prior to World War II the American Mor-
chant Larine was transporting loss than 30 of our oim imports and
exports. During the typical period 1930-1934, which apparently has
been selected to measure the level of Japanose restoration, the Jep-
anese merchant marine was transporting 65% of its fargeas exports
and inports, 92 of its nearseas and 100, of its donestic commerce.
While contomplating the necessities of our erstwhile enemies and
with every huaane and conpassionate feeling, it vould seem to us
paradoxical to clcvate those who have recently been restrained by
supreme military cffort and who were important factors in disturbing
the peace of tho world to a position in world shipping relatively

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
D
William H. Draper, Jr.
-4-
September 22, 1948
superior to that enjoyed by our own American ships prior to World
War II, or in the foreseeable future.
We recognize your statenent, Ir. Secretary, that strenuous
measures vill be noccssary to restore to Japan reasonable living
and e conomic standards. We suggest that it is not an easy accom-
plisliment in other parts of the world. .e suggest consideration
as to whether we may with equity and justice, and at our expense,
elevate the living standards c our recent enenies to a highor
levol than those of our allies in the sane area during the same con-
flict.
There appears to be a misconception re arding the histori-
cal earnings of the Jr anese merclhant fleet. A Department of Com-
merce publication shows t at  1937 the ratio of Japan net shipping
receipts to its exports was 4.7%. This is to be compared with the
ratio of 36.5% for Norway; 24.1% for Greece; 13.4% for the United
Kingdom; 9.2% for the Hetherlands and 7.1% for Denmark. We use
the year 1937 as the only record available to us. We assume it to
be representative.
ore important, hovever, is the ratio of Japanese net income
from shipping to the total Japanese national income. The sane
source shows that net shipping incone represented less than 1% of
the total national income of Japan for the vear 1957. To be exact,
the figure is O.7. This may be compared with the shipping income
ratio to national income of other maritime nations as follovs:
Norway 11.2%; Denaark 2.5%; Hetherlands 2.4%; United Kingdom 1.3%;
and Sweden 1.1%. It is, therefore, obvious that the item of net

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Drapor, Jr.
一5
September 22, 1948
shipping income is not the proper approach to balancing the budget
or increasing the living standards in Japan. It should be borne in
mind that this rosult was obtained then Japan was carrying approx-
imately 65% of her farseas import and export conmerce. It would
appear that a nore faasible nethod would be to raise the goneral
productivity of Japanese industries and that only a very small in-
crease is necessary to accomplish the necessary result.
The balance of pements carnings from shipping as coapiled by
the Japanese Department of Pinance in the period 1930-1934 averaged
119.26 mi1lion yen per annum.
This is the equivalent of 42.81
million dollars per annum. ven this figure, as vill be later
showm, overstatos the balance of payments earnings because of the
unusual and incorrect method of reporting. Further it fails to take
into account certain exponditures necessary to support shipping
operations which must bo rade in foreign currencies.
As an example: Japan is almost entiroly devoid of donestic
fuel oil. hen purchased in Japan by Japanese shipping, such ex-
pense has not been adjusted against the net balance-of-payment
earnings from shipping. Obviously the expenses of acquiring such
fuel oil abroad and importing it into Japan for the use of Japanese
ships should be deducted against the balance of payments carnings
from shipping.
In the past the Japanese have adopted a method of reporting
balance of payments under which imports are valued CIF and exports
are valued PAs-a procedure vhich distorts and overstates any balance
of trade deficit by an amount equal to the total transportation
charges on imports. This unusual procedure has resulted in errors

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 6-
September 22, 1948
by compotent econonists, including some who have made surveys for
the Army. For a more . mplete study of what is termed the "chronic
bias" in the Japanese balance of payments figures, we respectfully
refer you to "The Industrialization of Japan and Lianchukuo. 1930-
1940, by Schumpetor, Allen, Gordon and Penrose, Pages 908 to 925.
The Japanose fron the very beginning of their modern epoch
offered
Japanese shipping sor:ething more than the opportunity to
compete in free trade with low cost labor. About sixteen years
after Perry's second visit, the itsubishi Shipping Conpany was
organized in 1870. Governnent subsidies of 250,000 yen per annum
were then granted. Adlitional government subsidies vere granted
other shipping companies as they cane into existence.
In 1806 tho Japanese not only offered flat sum subsidies
to operators of foreign routos but also formalized into legislation
a plan for postal subventions and for shipbuilding subsidies in
substantial anounts.
The postal subventions and the shipping
subsidies were contin ed tc World Var II. The shipbuilding sub-
sidies vere discontinued in 1918 but were again resuned in 1932.
The Japanese also provided indirect subsidies for their shipping
by subsidizing tleir steel industry to the extent that it produced
steel for ships, and by relieving shipbuilding steel, shipbuilding
tools, etc. from import duties. A detailed explanation of these
subsidies may be found on pages 319 to 351 of Shipping and Ship-
building Subsidies
published in 1932 by the U. S. Departnent of
Commerce.
The Japanese themselves do not estimate that they will
need any large incone from shipping to balance their economy in

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-7-
September 22, 1948
"1952". Their "Econonic Rehabilitation Plan" has set exports of
1,646 million dollars and imports of 1,657 rillion dollars as the
goal for the year "1952" even after the ovorstated method of valuing
imports CIF.
Their balance of trade deficit, although distorted
by overstatement, is thus only 1l million dollars per annum, if
their goals are reached.
Fearing the impression nay provail that the living standards
presontly prevailing in Japan are more sub-standard than actually
exists, we feel it desirable to state a few high-light facts. The
average daily caloric intake in rural areas excoeded 2250 calories
per day in Novenber 1947, and about 5% 1ess for the 1947 annual
average, accordino to . AP's  mation of Non-Military Activities
in Japan for May 1943.
According to the same source, the urban
areas
average vas 2000
calories per day in the sane nonth and aver-
aged about 93 of that figure for the full year. This is to be
compared with an everace daily caloric intalte prewar of approximately
2250 according to calculations of the Japanese and 2000 for 1940
and 194l according to the calculations of the Medical Division of
the U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey. Our information is that the
caloric intale of Bizone Germany at the prosent time is between
2100 and 2500 calcries per day and of France approximately 2700
calories per day, exclusive of alcoholic beverages. We consider
this a most creditablo shoving by the authorities in the occupation
areas.
The future position of Japan in world affairs and commorce
cannot be foreseen. Ji anesc authorities assure us that ho one in

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
D
(8)
William H. Draper, Jr.
September 22, 1948
Japan expected the surrender to load to a complete change in the
form of Coverimont. They expected a constitutional monarchy. It
must be remeibered that for more than 2oo years prior to Conmodore
Perry's visit in 1853 Japan's foreign comnerce had been strongly
banned and the country had been living in a feudal state ruled
over by the Tokugava Shogunate. The aperor's authority was so far
eclipsed that the first American consul was ignorant of even the
oxistence of such a personage for two years after lhis arrival.
With the coming of Perry and the restoration of the Mciji
dynasty, Japan entered upon a new and ontirely different phase of
its development. Individual loyalty was transferred from tho feudal
lords to the erperor. The succeeding regime was under a typo of
monarchical control, and in a substantial degree industrial deve-
lopment was dominated by cartels or family group holdings, in which
it is thought that the onarc held financial interest. Through
all these periods the individual vas competely suoservient to the
State. Personal freedom and dignity were not part of the Japanese
order.
le now cone to a new epoch in Japan's history with the
establishment of constitutional denocratic governnent and the con-
cept of human rights and liborty. No one can foresee how the
Japanese people vill react to their new environment. Past history
and statistics of a completely different goverriental and economic
system provide no reliable guide. It would be a rash policy to use
past milestones to measure future progress, and to plot a completely
theoretical course under which Japanese agriculture, industry and
comerce would develop.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.97)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一9
September 22, 1948
While the Japanese poople must learn something of the mean-
ing of retribution, and measures must also be adopted to prevent
their again disturbing the peace of the world, every e lement of
the Anerican people favor a humane and realistic course under which
by irdustry and intolligonce they nay regain a properly balanced
position in vorld affa s witih reasonable living standards. All
this must, hovever, be accomplished with a full realization of its
inpact and offect upon our owm financial and economic affairs.
Sound judgment would dictate a cautious procedure.
To say in that industries and to what extent tho new order
in Japan is most adaptable, and would bo most successful, appears
precarious. Because tho Japanose crchant iarine of 1950-1934 con-
sisted of about four million gross tons, to now accept as sound
policy a reconr:endlation advanced by certain suurvey authorities that
a merchant marine of equal sizo should forthwith bo providod, com-
pletely ignores the historical bacl ground and changed Japanese and
world conditions, and goos far into the fiold of simple conjecture.
Le sug est that there is no reliablo infommation to indicate
the size and voluno of future
Japanese exportablo surpluses and
that the statistical records of past production of factory, mines
and agriculture furnic. no poliable yardstick of the comaodities
and of the voly e vhich may be available in the future for shipment
overseas. Nor is there any dependable data as to vhat foreign mar-
kets are availa le if such production can he ac oaplished. To
arbitrarily set up a Japaneso shipping fleet of a given capacity
with so little lnowledge of the future industrial development of
Japan would be an unwise course to pursue.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一10
September 22, 1948
The merchant  ine policy should rather be integrated
with the overall industrial develonment as it occurs, taling into
account the many national and international coplications. When
the Far Eastorn Cormission on January 25, 1947 decided as a matter
of policy that the peacotine standard of living of the Japanese
people should be set at the lcvel prevailing during the years
1930-1934, they spocified that acceptance of this policy should not
be interpreted to mean acceptance in advance of a speciric level
for any particular industry.
There is some justification in selec-
ting these years as the statistical record shows evidence that it
was just prior to extraordinary expenditures for military purposes.
Japanese industries which must largely furnish export sur-
pluses not only suffered by bonbing and other war activities, but
the sources of raw material and fuel vith which to feed these indus-
tries have not been reestablished. Therefore if a fleet of four
million cross tons (1.7 nillion in farseas trading carrying 65%
of Japanese irorts and exports) under corditiens existing in 1930-
1954 was sufficient to meet Japan's waterborne transportation needs,
it would appear obvious that some lesser alount vill suffice until
Japaneso export production has been restored and oversoas marltets
developed.
Perhaps because shipping is in an exposed position and its
activities are more visible, there is a tendency to resort to it as
a means of sup lying anything which is lacking in the make-up of
economic problems. The effect upon our econony and the resulting
effect upon our merchant marine appears to have been overlooked.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-11-
September 22, 1948
The occupational iorce. in Japan who vaited so long for United
States mercient ships to bring them supplies and transportation
when they were driving the Japanese from the territories which they
had invaded, should be the first to recognize the vital necessity
of maintaining an adequate active merchant marine fleet at all
times.
It had not occurred to us until reading certain of the
reports propared for the Dopartment of the Army, and made available
for public infornation, that the Japa ese merchant fleet of the
future would be allowed to engage to a substantial degree in world
trading. To had cained the improssion that Japanese ships of the
future would carry the domestic connerce of those islands and be an
important factor in the short trades namely, betreen the homeland
and Korea, Formosa, Philippines and the immediate Asiatic mainland.
lWe thought there vould  e vory caroful restrictions against allow-
ing Japaneso tonnage in th lo oversoas routes to the Western
Hemisphore and European destinations, and perhaps to some degree
to S. E. Asia.
The experiences of disturbing incidents caused by
Japanese activitios in foroign arcas seemed to us to support logi-
cally such a viewpoint.
For the reasons we have endeavored to present, American
steaiship owners vwho are members of this Foderation respectfully
asl that recommendations which have beon made for the inaodiate
rebuilding of the Japanese merchant fleet to a level equal to that
of 1930-1934, namely, approximately four million gross tons, be
deferred until there is better evidence that suclh action vould be
in conforlity wit a sound national and intornational policy.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-12 -
September 22, 1948
Among the reasons why we believe such an increase in Japan-
ese shipping at this time would be unsound, are the following:
1. Ve suggest that the peace of the world would best be
served by a policy which restricts Japanese shipping primarily to
the domestic Japanese trades and to service between Japan and
nearby continental and island areas.
2. That Japanese shipping net income as represented by
its ratio to net national income, plays a small part in the overall
Japanese economy, representing less than 1%. Therefore, it is not
an offective means of balancing Japanese finances or of raising
living standards.
3. Ve question the justification of raising Japanese par-
ticipation in international shipping to a relatively higher level
than is enjoyed by the United States, particularly when such stimu-
lation of Japanese economic recovery must be at our expense.
4. Ve question whether it is fair and just, at our expense,
to improve the economic stability and living standards of our recent
enemy to a point substantially superior to that of our recent allies
in the same geographic area.
5. Due to complete changes in government, physical condi-
tions and psychology, the past achievements and statistical records
of Japan are not reliable guides to the future production, overseas
commerce and finanees of the nation. No one can foresee the future
of Japanese industry as related to world trade. We suggest it
would be incautious to provide Japan at this time with a merchant
marine of a given capacity upon a purely conjectural theory that
certain tonnages in imr rts and exports will develop. The general

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-13-
September 22, 1948
and gradual improvenent of a cross-section of Japanese industry is
a more logical approach and as has been s howm will better provide
the means of meeting any financial deficit.
6. Japaneso shipping althouch built and operated by cheap
labor has not been required by its covernment to competo upon a
free trade basis in international commorce, but has been substan-
tially subsidized. Japan has not followed the principle sot down
by the J. S. in the ic phant arino Act of 1936 of making subsidy
payments only in an amoun which vill offset the lovw wages and
operating costs of corpeting foreign vessels thereby establishing
a condition of economic parity in competition.
I.hen the subject matter of this lettor is considered by
the Dopartment of the Ary, by the Far Eastern Comission or by
other national or international agencios, this Fedoration will
greatly appreciate the opportunity of presenting further consider-
ations.
Very truly yours,
Frazer A. Bailey

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: JMA
DATE: Ootober 21, 1948
FROM : MG M
sUBJECT: Attached Tokyo's 655
8.94 85/10.448 C018.7ile
In view of its bearing on the current Japanese shipping
controversy, I think you will be partioularly interested in
this despatch on Japan's need for overseas merohant marine.
Referring to the proposed FEC policy on the subject of
Japanese shipbuilding and shipping approved by Committee No. 2,
USPOLAD states that the FEC-proposed 1,800,O00 gross ton
level would be totally inadequate for meeting Japan's
internal water transportation needs and fishing, cannery
and whaling requirements, not to mention the establishment
of an overseas merchant marine. USPoLAD estimates that,
exolusive of fishing vessels, Japan will require a total
of 4,000,000 tons of merohant shipping to meet its minimum
requirements, of which about 2,500,000 tons would be for
overseas services.
08
In defending these figures USPOLAD advances a number
6
of pertinent arguments, some of which, I believe, have not
4.8
been previously developed: (1) An estimate hae been made
in ESs that the landed cost of imported raw materials in
Japan 1s increased by an average of at least 30% due to
35/10-448
freight charges. Therefore, Japan's economic rehabilitation
will depend in part upon the revival of a Japanese overseas
merchant marine through which shipping costs can be met
with Japanese yen and an opportunity provided to acquire
foreign exchange through the export of shipping services.
(2) At present, Japan 1s selling a number of items in
world markets, not because the price 1s lower or the quali
higher, but because earlier delivery dates can be quoted
in Japan. The effect of increased costs of raw materials
will be to increase the need for Japan to maintain lower
shipping costs. (3) Bulk cargoes, such as coal, ore and
lumber, which moved within Japan by water before the War.
and was transferred during the War necessarily by rail
shipment,should now be carried by coast-wise shipping.
This would relieve a greatly overburdened rail system.
ω
For this purpose Japan requires at least 500,000 tons more
of operable coast-wise and inter-island shipping. (4)
While a merchant marine 1s admittedly an indespensabls
ad junct of military power, without armed forces of any
C
，
DC/R
kind,it can hardly be a potential military menace. The
ED
S/
Soandinavian countries, for example, have large merchant
0
Anal
marines and they certainly do not constitute a militapy
工
menace.
Q
Pev.
MG:clh

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
EE
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
OEPATENT OF SATE
35
.655
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
EED
3
0CT 15
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE HOLORAL LE
CPC OF
ED
THE SECRETAT OF STATE,
894.85/10-448
Sir:
I have the nor  pefe to t is  ission's despatch Ho. 313
of 1ay 29, 19h on re s ect  Porwarding Study Regarding Japa-
nese Shipping" and in t at conee tion to indicate the views of this
Xission concernin he re-estal lishment of a Japanese ocean-going
merchant marine. Reference is also made to the proposed Far Eastern
Jommission polic on the s Jee  Japanese shipbuilding and ship-
ping (S0 297/7 of Au ust 5, 1 43) approved 1y Committee No. 2:
Economic and Financial Affairs, at 1ts 125th meeting on July 29,
1946, anu prerred to the St erin Co mittee, which provides in
part that "the Japanese merchant marine, fishing, whaling and can-
nem fleets should be reduced t, an as reate not exceeding 1,800,
)) ross registered tons ot  tek mm ore than 15), oo gross tons
shouta be tankers ani we se has sho hd be made available for
re: arations."
A/MJS
Effect of Prei ht Rates on Japan's Iuporteu Raw  aterial Costs
Since Jaoan mast imp at raw naterials in order to export goods
with which t, acquire forei n cnenange needed to meet the minimum
requirements of its do lestie economy, raw material costs are, and
will be a major factor in he rehat ilitation o Japan'a economy and
the eventual restoration oi eqeilil riu: to Japan's international
balance of payments n: its aintenance thereafter. As was indi-
cated in the Johnston comnittee He ort, payment to non-Japanese
shipping at present-day freight rate or  e tumportation of essen-
tial rav aterials is a laryge factor in Ja an's foreign trade def-
icit. Shippin costs alone a proxtimave 2oo pillion dollars a year
at present. As for the Puture, sance ampr ximately 20, 00, J00 tons
of the 32,) 3, ) frei it tons of reeded aports projected for 1955
vill have to te lrouit fron Motant oints, rei ht charges in
that ear vi1l aoun t n esti natd 40,3), on (on the basis of
320.00 per ton everage).
An euti tat has  en are i. he Beonosnde and Scientific Sec-
Section
JOHTIDE TTAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 655
October 4, 1948.
-2-
Section of this Headquarters that the landed cost of imported raw
materials is increased on an average by at least 30 per cent due
to freight charges. Py way of illustration, freight charges on
U. S. and Hainan iron ore, costing about $7.00 per ton, range from
$9.00 to $ll.00 per ton. From west coast ports, freight charges
on U. S. and Canadian coking coal, costing approximately $1l.50 to
$12.50 per ton, amount to approximately 10.00 to $11.00 per ton.
Freight charges on salt from the Red Sea area are approximately
double the f.o.b. selling price. As a consequence, the economic
i
rehabilitation of Japan vill depend in part upon the revival of a
Japanese overseas merchant marine whereby shipping costs can be
met with Japanese yen and an opportunity provided to acquire for-
eign exchange through the export of shipping services. During the
years 1930-1934 for example, net receipts from marine transportation
alaost equaled or exceeded the deficit in conmodity trade created
by an ecess of imports over exports. Today, and in loolking toward
the future, a Japan limited geographically to the four main islands
and dependent for its very existence upon foreign trade, must import
more than ever before. In proportion to the anticipated larger un-
favorable visible trade balance of the future, Japan's overseas mer-
chant marine will have to earn a proportionately greater revenue
through the sale of its services in vorld markets. If Japan has
less to sell and nore to buy in worl markets, it must be permitted
to reduce frei ht charges to a mini um through the utilization of
its orm shippin, to the maximun extent possible, as well as be per-
mitted to sell ore in services.
Impact of Landed Raw  aterial Josts Upon Japan's Export Sales
The impact of landed raw material costs upon Japan's export
sales will assume reater si nificance as vorld demand is brought
into a more r alistic adjustment witl world supply. At present,
Japan is sellin: a number o items in world markets not because the
price is lower or the luality higher, vut because earlier delivery
dates can e uoted in Japan. In many instances, raw material and
post-war labor costs vill not permit Japan to sell goods of compa-
rable quality at lower prices in world markets. The establishment
of a commercial exchange rate will ring this particular problem
more clearly into focus.
Steel pipe (oil casing) currently being produced in Japan is
illustrative of this point. Landed raw naterial costs alone for
one metric ton oi oil pipe approximate l23. This includes an
estimated price f.o.b. Japan of 29.2? for 1.8 metric tons of iron
ore, 68.75 for 2.5 metric tons of coking coal, $21.70 for one
metric ton of fuel oil, and 3.20 for 0.04 metric ton of magnesia
clinker, totalling an estimated $l22.85 to obtain the materials
f.o.b. Japan required in the production of one metric ton of oil
pipe.
Ey way of comparison, as of the date of the compilation of
the foregoin; fi ures, information available to this Headquarters
indicated that the price f.o.l. Pittsburgh of 1.3 metric tons of
iron ore approximated 12.60, 2.5 metric tons of coking coal
35.00, one metric ton of fuel oil 9.30, and 0.04 metric tons of
magnesia clinker 1.60, totalling an estimated $58.50 to obtain
the materials
CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 655
October 4, 1948.
-3-
the materials f.o.b. Pittsburgh required in the production of one
metric ton of oil pipe. The difference between the f.o.b. Japan
price and the f.o.b. price on the aforementioned materials is $64.35.
The minimum floor price established by this Headquarters for the sale
of the pipe under discussion was l75.00. Negotiations between pro-.
spective buyers and the Japanese manufacturers resulted in the sale
of the pipe at 205.00 and 225.00 (for better than 9mm thickness)
per metric ton. At that time, information available to this Headquar-
ters indicated that the unit price f.o.b. Pittsburgh of similar pipe
approximated 3105.00. Althou h steel prices have increased 12 to 18
per cent in the United States recently, the f.o.b. Japan price is
considerably hi her than the f.o.b. Pittsburgh price but below the
U. S. "ray-market" short-term delivery quotations (said to approxi-
mate 350 per metric ton). In this connection, the major purchasers
of the 10,))0 metric tons of oil pipe, offered for sale, anticipate
deliver. between ctober 1948 and April 1949. It is of interest to
note also that ue to te hi h silicon content of the steel in ques-
tion and the concomitant shortage of manganese in Japan, the pipe
probaily can not le welded lut will have to be threaded making it
less desirable for pipe line use in so far as the major purchaser,
the Arabian-American Oil Company, is concerned.
Movement of Joods Purchased ith U. S. Appropriated Funds
ot only woul forei routes shipping enable Japan to reduce
its forei n exchan e cpenditur s for essential raw materials pro-
cured with co: mercial account funds and to acquire foreign exchange
through the sale of shippin; services, iut it could also be utilized
to nove a sul stantial part of theoods purchased with funds appro-
priated by the J. 3.  vernnent nder the ARIOA and EROA programs.
u lies for rehabilitation ani relief purposes purchased with
GARIOA and E OA funds co ili be noved by Japanese shipping, if Japan
were permitted to ac puire such shippin, and the saving in dollar
funds appropriated for the transportation of such goods (apart from
such charges as for fuel, ort services, and charterage).could be
used to purchase additional ite.is. This in turn would require a
modification in the policy expressed in the enclosed copy of a tele-
ram from this Headuarters to the J. 3. !aritime Commission of
September 13, 1948: "All cargo procured from United States appro-
priated funis for Japanese economy will be moved in United States
flag vessels subject to availability."
Japan's Internal Jater Transportation Needs, Exclusive of Fishing
This Tission is of the opinion that the proposed 1,800,000 gross
ton level, referred to above, would not be sufficient to meet Japan's
internal water transportation needs and fishing, vhaling and cannery
requirements, let alone permit the establishment of an overseas mer-
chant marine.
Inforation available to this Lission indicates that Japan's
present internal water transportation needs, exclusive of fishing
requirements, can not be met adequately by its existin: merchant
fleet of some 1,35), 000 ross tons (of which only about 1,000,000
gross tons
CO FI EITIAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 655
October 4, 1948.
4-
gross tons are operable). SCAP and Japanese Government officials
estimate that, exclusive of fishing vessels, Japan requires a mini-
mum of 1,500,000 gross tons of operable coastwise and inter-island
shipping to meet its internal water transportation needs. In this
regard, consideration should be given to the present character of
Japan' inland water shipping. Bulk cargoes, such as coal, ore,
and lumber, which moved ithin Japan by water before the war, and
which by necessity had to be movel ly rail as the war progressed,
are to a large extent still being carried by a greatly overburdened
rail system. An earl. return to the pre-war practice of moving the
majority of bulk cargoes inter-island by water is in the interest of
Japan's domestic economy, althou h necessitatin: thereby an increase
in Japan's coastwise shipping. The importance of shipping to Japan
as a coastwise and inter-island means of communication and trans-
portation sho il not be minimized, and we ielieve that the tco-
graphical characteristics of the Japanese islands dictate the maxi-
mum expansion or Japan's domestic shipping, consistent with economic
considerations.
Japan's Fishin Fleet Reyuirements
Although the present Japanese fishing fleet of somewhere between
800,000 and 900,000 gross tons is considered adequate for current
Japanese fishin, operations within the area limitations prescribed,
most agree, we believe, that it ould not be sufficient for any
apprecialle expansion o ishin operations once the limitations im-
posed upon Japan's fishin area have been lifted. In this regard,
Japan's ever-increasing need for food and for foreign-exchange-earning
exportable seafood items can not le overlooked.
Japan' Esti ated ? inirun: ercl.ant leet Requirements
Althouh a nunber of estinates have been made, in addition to
those indicat d above, with respect to the tonnage required to meet
Japan's intornal water transportation and fishing fleet needs, and
althou h there are variations a nong them, the conclusion can be
dram: that the 1, 300,000 ross tons of shi ping recommended by the
Economic and inancial Affairs Committee, referred to above, would
barely cover Japan's nini un or essential requirements in this regard.
Such a level, if established, would almost entirely preclude the
establishment of an effective overseas merchant marine. e consider
the restoration of a Japanese overseas merchant marine one of several
necessary prerequisites to the economic recovery of Japan. Je esti-
mate that, exclusive of fishin vessels, Japan will require a total
of 4,000,000 gross tons of merchant shipping to meet its minimm re-
quirements, of  ich, approximately 2.500, 000 tons would be devoted
to foreim routes shipping, together ith adequate shipbuilding and
repair facilities to maintain such a fleet. This lission understands
that the views of the Strike and Draper Lissions with respect to the
nee for a merc hant marine of the approximate. size indicated above,
including adejuate tonnage for foreign routes shipping, are in accord
vith this estimate. It appears to us that Japan, to obtain initially
merchant shippin. for use on forein routes, must le permitted to
buy or
COIFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokyo's Despatch Ho. 655
October 4, 1948.
-5-
buy or charter on a I areboat basis surplus merchant shipping in
world markets, as well as begin the construction of ships for such
trale in its owm shipywards.
Jonslusion
Adnittedly a merchant marine would e an indispensable adjunct
to lapan as a mili ary power. ut a  rehant marine alone, without
armed forces of ane kind, can nardly le considered a potential mili-
tare menace to worh peace. e therlanis, Morway, Sweden, and
Denaark, Fer enen le, itu their pelatively large merchant marines
and s all armed orees are husoraeiye  tu point. A truly un-
armed Ja   vreanmavin  a ficient size to fulfill
its lo ica? pole as a ariti  matio. could no more be considered
a menace  ml peace then che alorenaned countries.
da h, who. very pas pee rodueed lat sts yopulation, and
orvere orein trade for its survival,
car mly ope o attain self-surfiei mey if needed raw materials
 o ad  s and carried to Japan at
the lonest ossille cost and conconitantly, if Japanese labor in
Mam is wi lin to ear. throth the "sweat of its browt, rather
than tron forei n subsixties, a h her standa d or living and one
that the  nes seo cm a ford. Ir de competitive factor can
le disassociate ron a  msidevation of Ja a's need for an over-
seas merchant marine, ve douit  hether any justifiable case can be
estailished for  long-range prohi ition  a Japanese merchant
marine of suificient sise to permit reasonahle overseas operations.
Respectfully yours,
V. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Sopy  telegran fron J, S0AP
to U. S. aritime pormission,
dated Septeiler 13, 1948.
Original und hectdgraph to Department
05
Di Tane:mis
COMFDEMTAL (ON DEFE. USS Y)
Ram

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 655
dated October 4, 1948 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Japan's Need for an Overseas
Merchant Marine".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AND
FAR EAST COLMAND
OUTGOING MESSAGE
GD TR JAS/AIJ/mlc
UNCLASSIFIED
130905
13 September 1948
FROM:
CINCFE
TO:
US MARITIME COMMISSION, WASHINGTON, D.C...PRIORITY
INFO:
DEPT OF ARMY
.PRIORITY
CG EIGHTH ARMY.
ROUTINE
( ZX022764 ) For Admiral Smith. Reur commereial rad 3
September.
Reference 40.000 tons ore from West Coast, there was no
stipulation in the contact requiring 50% participation by
United States flag vessels, however, four of the six vessels
employed in this lift were United States flag vessels.
The 400,000 tons of coking coal for Jepan is being pro-
cured from SCAP commercial account funds on a CIF basis. It
is expected that American flag ships will be as successful as
they have been in the past due in part to the insufficiency of
foreign ships to hendle this amount of cargo. Bids were opened
7 September and you will be advised name of successful bidder
sonnest.
All cargo procured from United States appropriated funds
for Japanese economy will be moved in United States flag vessels
subject to availability. When procurement is made from SCAP
commercial accounts every effort will be made to insure that
United States vessels receive equal consideration in accordance
with fair trade practices.
OFFICIAL:
APPROVED:
R. M. LEVY
H. E. EASTWOOD
Colonel, AGD
Colonel, GSC
Adjutant Gene ral
Asst Chief of Staff, G-4
Copies to: CinC, CS, Trans O, ESS/FT
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
TO
: O - !fr. Saltzman
DATE: 10/15/48
suBject: Request by the National Federation of American Shipping for Hearing
on the Japanese Merchant arine.
Ir. Norton's memorandum of October 12 on the above subject
raises the qucstion of cocrdination anong all interested agencies
of the U.S. Government of policy toward the Japanese merchant
marine, with specific regerd to coordination between O and T. EP
agrees as to the desirability of such coordination and draws
attention to the past history of intra-departmental and inter-
agency consultations on the subject.
As noted in TRC/S' memorandum quoted by Mr. Norton, the
development of postwar policy toward Japanese shipping goes back
to the war period when "competent spokesmen for the Maritime Com-
mission and the ar Shipping Administration made various public
statements to the general effect that postwar ship operation and
shipbuilding activities in Japan should be depressed or stopped
TW -89485
and that American shipping should be encouraged to assume a large
share of the work done by pre-war Japanese shipping." I have no
lmowledge as to whether these statements were cleared in advance
with those agencies, namely the State, army and Navy Departments,
which were smogamtly charged with responsibility for development
of U.S. policy for Japan uner the occupation.
Vhen U.S. policy for a retention level for Japanese shipping
and shipbuilding vas under development in 1946 and 1947, full con-
sideration was given to two major factors: security, and the peace-
ful needs of the Japanese people. ith regard to security, the
10-1248
Department  depended fully on the views of the Army and
Navy Departments. On the matter of the peaceful needs of Japan, it
may be pointed out that the U.S. Government was bound by the pro-
vision of the Potsdam Declaration, which states that "Japan shall
be permitted to maintain such industries as will sustain her
economy." Full consultation among the Departments of State, Army,
Navy, SCaP, the Pauley Mission and the Strike Mission, in the
spring of 1947, determined the appropriate levels under these
concepts, for shipbuilding capacity, as 150,000 gross tons annually,
with a provision barring capacity for building individual vessels
in excess of stated tonnage limits. It was agreed at the same time
hat the existing Japanese merchant fleet should be cut back to
2,000,000 gross tons, and that all vessels in excess of stated
ton age and speed limits slould be removed. It was recognized,
RM/R
Cat

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
2
SECRET
however, that the Japenese would subsequently need more than
2,000,000 gross tons of merchant shipping in order to meet their
peaceful needs.
Mr. Deimel, TRC, in May, 1947, commented in a memo to Mr. Hodge,
JK, on the U.S. policy outlined above, but only with reference to
the possible diseconomy of restricting Japanese tankers to 3,000
lighweight tons or less.
In October 1947, E drafted a SWNCC paper proposing in effect
that the U.S. renounce its interest in the nine vessels which
would become available for reparations from Japan under U.S.
policy toward the existing merchant fleet. SD cleared the proposed
draft, provided the Maritime Commission concurred. OE consequently
presented the matter to the Commission, together with the necessary
background material, including the papers on U.S. policy regarding
levels for Japanese shipping and shipbuilding. The Commission
approved the draft SiNCC paper and made no comment regarding U.S.
policy on shipbuilding capacity or the size of the merchant fleet.
In April 1948, after CI had recommended & 1evel of 400,000
gross tons for Japanese shipbuilding, Mr. Whitman, E, sent a memo-
randum to Mr. Radius, TRC, informing him that (1) existing U.S.
policy on Japanese shipping and shipbuilding was based on security
considerations no longer considered valid; (2) that OE was then
recommending a 300,000 gross ton capacity figure for shipbuilding
with no removals to be made from the existing fleet; and (3)
that Japan needs a merchant fleet of at least 3,000,000 gross
tons to avoid a net loss on shipping account. To my knowledge,
E received no indication that ThC objected to the new proposal.
SCAP, since that time, has recommended a level of 500,000
gross tons for Japanese shipbuilding, and the Johnston Committee
has proposed around 650,000 gross tons. Hegotiations on the
shipbuilding issue have, in recent months, been conducted at the
Secretarial level between State and Army and under such a high
security classification that it has been difficult at times for
EP to keep its own staff informed. It has not been possible for
EP, on its own authority, to seek the views of other divisions of
the Department.
Since May of this year, when unofficial announcement was made
in Japan regarding building of vessels for foreign account in Japan,
considerable interest has been displayed in this matter by FEC
SECRET

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
3
countries and by U.S. shipping interests. The British Embassy
presented a note on this matter which was answered by NA. The
reply, I understand, was not cleared through TRC/S. EP has,
however, provided TPC/S with all available information on the
matter. In addition, Mr. Martin, ITP, in September, sent a
memorandum to Mr. Radius, TRC, giving a full account of knowledge
here regarding the program. A copy of this memorandum is attached.
However, since SCAP takes the view that information on the subject
is classified until contracts are actually let, and since contracts
are still under negotiation for the bulk of the proposed program,
it has not been possible to obtain unclassified information for
the press and other interested parties. It will be noted that the
pending contracts include two 18,000 deadweight ton tankers for the
account of U.S. firms and that firm offers have been made by U.S.
interests regarding an additional 635,000 deadweight tons of vessels,
almost entirely tankers. The contracts pending between SCAP and
shipping interests of Norway, Denmark, the Philippines and France
total more than 125,000 deadweight tons and their firm offers
amount to approximately 500,000 deadweight tons more.
Enclosure:
Copy of Memorandum
SECRET
OFD:EP:SKallis:mhn
10-15-48

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD PORM NO. 4
TO
O: Mr. Charles E. Saltzman
DATE: October 12, 1948
FROM : T: Garrison Norton
SUBJECT:
Request by the National Federation of American Shipping for
Hearing on the Japanese Merchant Marine.
The President of the National Federation of American Ship-
ping has asked TRC/S to arrange a meeting with Departmental
officers concerned with determination of a postwar level for
Japanese shipbuilding and shipping.
The issue is stated in a petition filed by the NFAS with
General Draper, War Department, September 22, 1948, on "The
Japanese Merchant Marine." A cony is attached.
This request for a hearing precipitates the necessity for
coordinating our respective offices on this issue before we talk
individually or collectively with the industry.
In the event that there are unresolved differences of opinion
between our offices on the following points raised in a memorandum
from TRC/S to me, I would like to suggest that we meet jointly
with ir. Lovett on the matter. There is a certain urgency about
894.85
the matter as we do not believe that we should hold Mr. Bailey's
request too long without arranging a definite meeting.
The pertinent points in TRC/S' memorandum are as follows:
"In this memorandum TRC/S is not concerning itself with an
apparent discrepancy between the Far Eastern Commission's decision
and SCAP's objectives. The latter may be based on considerations
of high strategy not known to this office. But TRc/s believes t
-1248
of the government concerned with them, should have the appropriate
consideration of those who formulate the United States position
TRC/s believes that important aspects of the problem have not
been considered to date, among them the following:
2心
"1. During the war period and subsequently, competent
spokesmen for the Maritime Commission and the War Shipping Ad-
2
ministration made various public statements to the general ef-
fect that postwar ship operation and shipbuilding activities
in sapan should be depressed or stopped and that American ship-
ping saoul be encouraged to assume a large share of the work
done by pre war Japanese shipping.
"2. The
3322
3502

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
"2. The National Federation of American Shipping has
filed formal notice of objection with the War Department, with
copies to State, Navy, and the Maritime Commission. NFAS is
opposed to proposed action of restoring the Japanese merchant
marine to a pre-war level.
"3. It is assumed that when the Congress again convenes,
spokesmen for the American shipping industry will not fail to
protest encouragement of Japanese shipping and shipbuilding
expansion to and through Congressional sympathizers.
"4. Shipping interests were effective in obtaining
Congressional defeet of the Executive-sponsored ERP proposal to
charter or sell U. S. government-owned ships to foreign interests.
This action was supported by the Maritime Commission, shipowners,
shipbuilders, and by both shipbuilding and seagoing labor. There
is no reason to expect that these same forces will not join
again in an effort to defeat the potential restoration of the
Japanese fleet, and there is no reason to doubt that they will
again be successful. The argument used in the case of the trans-
fer of ships to Eurone - namely that it would reduce the American
taxpayer's burden - was cast aside by Congress as being of lesser
importance than that of romoting the American Merchant Marine.
The same argument used in the case of Japan - that the American
taxpayer will benefit by the restoration of a controlled Japanese
shipbuilding and merchant marine operation - could hardly hope
to meet a better fate in the case of a defeated nation that it
met in the case of liberated and Allied nations.
"5. The Department, as a major participant in the formula-
tion of poliey for occupied areas, will have to share with the
Department of the Army a Congressional accounting on this sub-
ject. At that time it will be assumed by the Congressional
Committees interested in the American Merchant Marine that TRC/S,
whose functions in the Department are to advise the Secretary of
State on shipping matters, was responsible for advice leading
to a policy of developing the Japanese shipbuilding industry as
a saving to the America taxpayer, when it is established national
policy that the protection and pronotion of the American Merchant
arine is a higher consideration. It must be made crystal clear
that up to this time responsihility for these matters was assumed
elsewhere in tie Depart: ei without reference to the Department's
accumulated specialized kn ledge on the subject.
"6. It is clear that whatever part of the Department is
making decisions on shipping matters, it has a duty to the en-
tire government to make sure that ali the agencies concerned
are given an opportunity to be heard. This clearly has not been
done to date by the Taritime Commissin's own statement to the
NFAS that they have no knowledge of SCAP's plans. Normally the
channel that would appropriately lend itself to the most
expeditious

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
expeditious formulation of a U. S. position on any phase of
shipping policy would be the Shipping Coordinating Committee.
"7. TRC/s is becoming increasingly aware of the dis-
satisfaction of other governments with the current shipbuilding
and shipping policy pursued by SCAp for Japan. Such rumblings
have been heard on the part of other members of the Far Eastern
Commission, and by some not represented thereon. Specifically,
the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Australia, the Philippines
and China have been heard from in this connection. Since
TRC/S is backstopping the U. S. position in the Intergovern-
mental Maritime Consultative Organization, a specialized agency
of the United Nations, where most of these protesting govern-
ments are represented, it is important that there be one
American shipning policy for all intergovernmental organizations,
rather than unrelated fragments of it that tend to contradict
each other."
Garrison Norton
Copies to:
Mr. George Kennan - S/P
Mr. Paul Nitze - E
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth - FE

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
BUK
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
File
SECRET
TO
DATE: Ootober 19, 1948
FROM
NA - Mr. All1son
SUBJECT:
Attached Memorandum Regarding Future Status of Japanese
Merchant Marine
The attached copy of a memorandum from Mr. Norton to
Mr. Saltzman regarding the interest of the National Federation
of American Shipping in the determination of a post-war level
for Japanese shipbuilding and shipping raises two questions,
one of substance and one of procedure.
With regard to the substantive matter raised, Mr. Norton's
office maintains that this Government is committed, as a result
of statements made during the war and subsequently by the
Files
DC/R
mis Document Must Be Returned lo
Maritime Commission and the War Shipping Administration to the
policy that post-war ship operation and shipbuilding activities
should be encouraged so assume a large share of the work done
by pre-war Japanese snipping. Mr. Norton's memorandum also
8
points out that Congress has decided, in the case of a projected
94.8
ERP plan to charter or sell Us Government-owned ships to foreign
interests, that it is more importent to promote the American
Merchant Marine than to reduce the burden on the American tax-
payer which such a transfer of US-owned ships would effect. It
1s contended that the same argument would prevail in the case of
Japanese shipping and that the policy of protecting and promoting
the American Merchant Marine 1s of higher consideration than the
O
possible saving to the American taxpayer from the development of
the Japanese Merchant Marine.
6
With respect to the procedural matter, Mr. Norton's memorandum
alleges that the responsibility for formulating Us policy toward 8
Japanese shipping has, up to the present, been assumed "elsewhere
in the Department without reference to the Department's accumulated,
specialized knowledge on the subject." It is also stated that
"it is important that there be one American shipping policy for
all intergovernmental organizations, rather than unrelated
fragments of it that tend to contradict each other." Mr. Norton,
therefore, requests that a meeting be set up in order to resolve
differences of opinion between the various offices concerned
and suggests that this meeting be held jointly with Mr. Lovett.
He maintains there is a certain urgency about the matter in view
of the request of the National Federation of American Shipping
that it be consulted with regard to this matter before any fingl
decisions are made.
0
DC/R
工
With regatd
ED
SECRET
19
52
8

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
With regard to the substantive portions of Mr. Norton's
memorandum, it is not necessary at this time to go into them in
detail except to point out briefly the following factors:
1. Any artificial restriction placed upon the development
of Japan's post-war shipping would be contrary to the
estεblished Us policy that the viotors in the late war
should not use their positions to gain economic advan-
tage over their former enemies. (The only reason for
1gnoring this principle would be in case Us security
might be threatened and in this instance the Navy has
ruled that the revival of Japan's shipping and ship-
building industries would not be a security threat to
this country.)
2.
According to a dispatch from USPOLAD, Tokyo, dated
May 29, 1948, wh1ch enclosed a statement by the Japanese
Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Japanese shipping,
tonnage has dropped from a peak of 6,329,000 tons in
1941 to 1,540,000 tons at present; and approximately
66 per cent of the existing ships are of wartime design,
considered inefficient and uneconomical by commercial
standards, while the remainder have an average age of
22 years. It 1s evident, therefore, that it will be
a considerable time before the Japanese are able, even
under the most favorable circumetances, to rebuild their
shipping to anywhere near its pre-war level, and that
during this time American and other shipping industries
will have an opportunity to consolidate their own
positions in the Pacific maritime trade with little
or no effeotive Japanese competition. It is also
pointed out in the dispatch under reference that in the
opinion of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs the
provisions of the Seaman's Law, enacted in Japan in
1947, are even more favorable to the worker than those
of the International Convention on Maritime Labor. If
this is so, the fear of cheap Japanese labor competing
with highly paid American seamen should not be the
bogey it once was.
3.
In the dispatoh referred to it is stated that USPOLAD
is now completing a definitive study of the problems
connected with Japan's post-war Merchant Marine and
shipbuilding industry and hopes shortly to forward it
to Washington with appropriate recommendations. It 1s
believed that no final decision should be made here on
the matter until receipt of this report.
With regard
SECRET

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-3-
With regard to the procedural question raised, I agree
emphatically that all agencies of this Government should be
agreed on shipping policy and partioularly that all Divisions
of the State Department concerned should reach a common ground.
Whether or not Mr. Norton's office has been by-passed previously
is impossible for me to say, but according to Mr. Burr Smith's
memorandum to Mr. Saltzman on this subject (copy attached) it
would appear that Mr. Norton's office has been given an opportunity
to comment and has been kept informed of the thinking of the
other branohes of the Department on this subject. However,
I believe that arrangements should be made in accordance with
Mr. Norton's suggestion for an early thrashing out of the various
points of view in the Department before taking the matter up
with other agencies of the Government concerned or with the
National Federation of American Shipping.
I therefore recommend that Mr. Saltzman be notified that
NA will represent FE in any talks which Mr. Saltzman's office
desires to arrange on this matter.
Attachments:
cmcur
1.
Memo from Mr. Norton to Mr. Saltzman,
October 12, 1948.
u
2.
Memo from Mr. Smith to Mr. Saltsman,
October 15, 1948.
Copies to:
O - Mr. Saltzman
E - Mr. Nitze
T - Mr. Norton
S/P - Mr. Davies
FE:NA:JMAllison/pm
BECRET

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SHIPPING, INC.
1809 G Street; Northwest
Washington, D. C.
September 22, 1948
William H. Draper, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of the Army
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.
FW 894.85
Subject: Japanese lierchant liarine
My dear Lir. Draper:
Reforring to my letter of May 26; your response of June 1,
and to our subsequent conversation with respect to postwar plans
of Japaneso merchant shipping.
As set forth i: our letter of May 26, and as I stated to
10-1948
you at the time of our meeting, Anerican steamship owners are con-
siderably concernod about our national policy, and perhaps the
matter of an international policy, respecting the future of Jap-
anese shipping in the international trades. You were kind enough
to advise me that no definite policy from a national standpoint
had been decided upon, end you invited expressions from American
SECRE
steamship owners represented by this Federation concerning such
a policy.
The purpose of this letter is to present such views as are
1
presently in the minds of the American steamship owners we represent,
comprising about two-thirds of all privately owned American flag
ships.
We understand there is no certainty at the moment as to
where the final decision will be reached, i. e., whether by the
Department of the Army; the Suprene Cornander of Allied Powers;

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 2 -
Septembe1 22, 1948
the Far Eastern Conmission; or some other. American governmental or
international tribunal. We also understand that if some agency
other than the Department of the Army is to determine these ques-
tions you will advise us so that our representations may be made
before the determinativo body.
In the first instance, may we say that the interests we
represent are not urmindful of the task which confronts the United
States and/or the Allied Nations endeavoring to restore the Jap-
anese national to a level of reasonable living standards and of
reasonable economic stability. le are equally clear, however, thet
the effect of these efforts upon our own national economy and upon
those of the Alliod llations cannot be ignored.
As stated to you, Anerican shipping interests have no ambi-
tion to monopolize Pacific Ocean shipping. The United States has
never attained a maritime position cormensurate with its geographic
and economic status, and as a leader in the United Nations Organi-
zation. No nation whioh has failed to maintain its flag upon the
seas has long retained a position of influence and leadership in
world affairs. liistory is replete with examples to the contrary.
The Congress of the United States in passing the Merchant
Marine Act of 1936 stated it to be a national policy that the United
States shall have a merchant marine to carry its domestic water-
borne commerce, a substantial portion of its foreign commerce, and
capable of serving as a naval and military auxiliary in time of war
or national emergency.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
William H: Draper, Jr.
二3
September 22, 1948
In implernenting this national policy we envision a merchant
fleet of modern combination and cargo vessels under the United
States flag manned by Anerican officers and seanmen, transporting all
of our domestic coastwise and intercoastal and territory commerce
and at least one-half of our imports and exports, and backed by a
fleet of modern passen or-carrying vessels providing transportation
and conmmunication betveen the United States and important world
areas. his in effect is the target hich is in the minds of certain
American shipping interests and we believe of a substantial portion
of the American public.
We subnit that it is not an overarbitious policy to envision
such an merican merchant fleet. The carriage of one-half of our
on coninerce is a oal which has not, however, been reached since the
early Cclonial days when our forebears exceeded this achievement by
building and oporating the finest type of vessels the world had
theretofore kmowm.
During thc period prior to World War II the American Mer-
chant .arine was transporting less than 30% of our ovm imports and
exports. During the typical period 1930-1934, which apparently has
been selected to measure the level of Japanese restoration, the Jap-
anese merchant marine was transporting 65g of its farseas exports
and imports, 92 of its nearseas and 100% of its domestic commerce.
While contemplating the necessities of our erstwhile enemies and
with every hunane and compassionate feeling, it would seem to us
paradoxical to elevate those who have recently been restrained by
supreme military effort and who were important factors in disturbing
the peace of tho world to a position in world shipping relatively

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一4一
September 22, 1948
superior to that enjo: ed by our own American ships prior to World
War II, or in the foreseeable future.
Ve recognize your statenent, ir. Secretary, that strenuous
measures will be necessary to restore to Japan reasonable living
and e conomic standards. We suggest that it is not an easy accom-
plishment in other parts of the world. .e suggest consideration
as to whether we may with equity and juctice, and at our expense,
elevate the living standards of our recent enemies to a higher
level than those of our allies in the same area during the same ccr-
flict.
There appears to be a misconception regarding the histori-
cal earnings of the Japanese merchant fleet. A Departrnent of Com-
merce publication shows that in 1937 the ratio of Japan net shipping
receipts to its exports was 4.7%. This is to be compared with the
ratio of 36.5% for Horway; 24.1% for Greece; 13.4% for the United
Kingdom; 9.2% for the Hethe lands and 7.1% for Denmark. We use
the year 1937 as the only record available to us. We assume it to
be representative.
Hore important, hovever, is the ratio of Japanese net incoms
from shipping to the total Japanese national income. The sane
source shows that net shipping incoe represented less than 1% of
the total national income of Japan for the year 1937. To be exact,
the figure is 0.T. This may be compared with the shipping income
ratio to national incono of other naritime nations as follows:
Norway 11.2%; Denaark 2.5%; Netherlands 2.4%; United Kingdom 1.3%;
and Sweden 1.1%. It is, therefore, obvious that the item of net

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 5 -
September 22, 1948
shipping income is not the proper approach to balancing the budget
or increasing the liv:ng standards in Japan. It should be borne in
mind that this result was obtained vhen Japan was carrying approx-
imately 65% of her farseas import and export connerce. It would
appear that a hore feasible nethod would be to raise the general
productivity of Japanese industries and that only a very small in-
crease is necessary to accomplish the necessary result.
The balance of payments earnings fron shipping as coapiled by
the Japanese Department of Finance in the period 1930-1934 averaged
119.26 million yen per annum. This is the equivalent of 42.81
million dollars per annum. ven this figure, as vill be later
shown, overstates the balance of payments earnings because of the
unusual and incorrect method of reporting. Further it fails to take
into account certain expenditures necessary to support shipping
operations which must bo made in foreign currencies.
As an example: Japan is almost entirely devoid of domestic
fuel oil. When purchased in Japan by Japanese shipping, such ex-
pense has not beon adjusted against the net balance-of-payment
earnings fron shipping. Obviously the expenses of acquiring such
fuel oil abroad and importing it into Japan for the use of Japanese
ships should be deducted against the balance of payments earnings
from shipping.
In the past the Japanese have adopted a method of reporting
balance of payments under which inports are valued CIF and exports
are valued FAS-a procedure which distorts and overstates any balance
of trade deficit by an amount equal to the total transportation
charges on imports. This unusual procedure has resulted in errors

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 6 
September 22, 1948
by compotent economists, including some who have made surveys for
the Army. For a more complete study of what is termed the "chronic
bias" in the Japanese balance of payments figures, we respectfully
refer you to "The Industrialization of Japan and Manchukuo, 1930-
1940, by Schumpeter, Allen, Gordon and Penrose, Pages 908 to 925.
The Japanese from the very beginning of their modern epoch
offered Japaneso shipping something more than the opportunity to
compete in free trade with low cost labor. About sixteen years
after Perry's second visit, the itsubishi Shipping Conpany was
organized in 1870. Governnent subsidies of 250,000 yen per annum
were then granted. Adlitional government subsidies vere granted
other shipping companies as they came into existence.
In 1896 tho Japaneso not only offered flat sum subsidies
to operators of foreign routes but also formalized into legislation
a plan for postal subventions and for shipbuilding subsidies in
substantial amounts. The postal subventions and the shipping
subsidies were continued to World War II. The shipbuilding sub-
sidies vere discontinued in 1918 but were again resumed in 1932.
The Japanese also provided indirect subsidies for their shipping
by subsidizing their steel industry to the extent that it produced
steel for ships, and by relieving shipbuilding stoel, shipbuilding
tools, etc. from import duties. A detailed explanation of these
subsidies may be found on pages 319 to 351 of Shipping and Ship-
building Subsidies published in 1932 by the U. S. Department of
Commerce.
The Japanese themselves do not estimate that they will
need any large incone ron shipping to balance their economy in

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
William H. Draper, Jr.
.70
September 22, 1948
"1952". Their "Econonic Rehabilitation Plan" has set exports of
1,646 aillion dollars and imports of 1,657 million dollars as the
goal for the year "1952" even after the ovorstated method of valuing
imports CIF. Their balance of trade deficit, although distorted
by overstatement, is thus only 1l million dollars per annum, if
their goals are reached.
Fearing the impression may provail that the living standards
presently prevailing in Japan are more sub-standard than actually
exists, we feel it desirable to state a few high-light facts. The
average daily caloric intake in rural areas exceeded 2250 calories
per day in November 1947, and about 5% less for the 1947 annual
avorage, according to sCAP's Sunriation of Non-Military Activities
in Japan for May 1948. According to the same source, the urban
areas average was 2ooo calories per day in the sane month and aver-
aged about 93% of that figure for the full year. This is to be
compared with an average daily caloric intake prewar of approximately
2250 according to calculations of tho Japanese and 2000 for 1940
and 194l according to the calculations of the Medical Division of
the U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey. Our information is that the
caloric intalre of Bizone Cermany at the present time is between
2100 and 2300 calories per day and of France approximately 2700
calories per day, exclusive of alcoholic beverages. We consider
this a most creditable showing by the authorities in the occupation
areas.
The future position of Japan in orld affairs and commerce
cannot be foreseen. Japanese authorities assure us that no one in

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一8
September 22, 1948
Japan expected the surrender to load to a complete change in the
form of Covernment. They expected a constitutional monarchy. It
must be remembered that for more than 2o0 years prior to Conmodore
Perry's visit in 1853 Japan's foreign conmerce had been strongly
banned and the country had been living in a feudal state ruled
over by the Tolugawa Shogunate. The Laperor's authority was so far
eclipsed that the first American consul was ignorant of even the
existence of such a personage for two years after his arrival.
With the coming of Perry and the restoration of the Meiji
dynasty, Japan entered upon a new and entirely different phase of
its development. Individual loyalty was transferred from the feudal
lords to the emperor. The succeeding regime was under a type of
monarchical control, and in a substantial degree industrial deve-
lopment was dominated by cartels or family group holdings, in which
it is thought that the monarchy held financial interest. Through
all these periods the individual vas competely subservient to the
State. Personal freedom and dignity were not part of the Japanese
order.
le now come to a new epoch in Japan's history with the
establishment of constitutional denocratic goverrment and the con-
cept of human rights and liberty. No one can foresee how the
Japanese people vill react to their new environment. Past history
and statistics of a completely different govermiental and economic
systen provide no reliable guide. It would be a rash policy to use
past milestones to me. suro future progress, end to plot a completel
theoretical course under which Japanese agriculture, industry and
commerce would develop.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一9一
September 22 1948
While the Japanese poople must learn something of the mean-
ing of retribution, and measures must also be adopted to prevent
their again disturbing the peace of tho world, every e lement of
the American people favor a humane and realistic course under which
by industry and intelligence they may regain a properly balanced
position in vorld affairs with reasonable living standards. All
this must, howevor, bc accomplished with a full realization of its
inpact and effect upon our owm financial and economic affairs.
Sound judglent would dictate a cautious procedure.
To say in what industries and to what extent tho new order
in Japan is lost adaptable, and would be most successful, appears
precarious. Because the Japanese  erchant arine of 1950-1934 con-
sisted of about four million gross tons, to now accept as sound
policy a reconm endation advanced by certain survey authorities that
a merchant marine of equal size should forthwith bo provided, com-
pletely ignores the historical bacliground and changed Japanese and
world conditions, and goos far into the field of siaple conjecture.
Le suggest that there is no reliablo inforation to indicate
the size and volune of futuro
Japanese exportable surpluses and
that the statistical records of past production of factory, mines
and agriculture furnish no reliable yardsticl of the comaodities
and of the volu e vhicin may be available in the future for shipment
overseas. Nor is there any dependable data as to what foreign mar-
kets aro available if such production can be accomplished. To
arbitrarily set up a Japanese shipping fleet of a given capacity
with so little kmowledge of the future industrial development of
Japan would be an unwise course to pursue.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
一10
September 22 1948
The merchant marine policy should rather be integrated
with the overall indu: trial development as it occurs, talking into
account the many national and international coaplications. When
the Far Eastern Cormission on January 25, 1947 decided as a matter
of policy that tho peacetine standard of living of the Japanese
people should be set at the lovel prevailing during the years
1930-1934, they spocified that accoptance of this policy should not
be interpreted to mean accoptance in advance of a specific level
for any particular industry. There is some justification in seleo-
ting these years as the statistical record shows evidence that it
was just prior to extraordinary expenditures for military purposes.
Japanese industries which must largely furnish export sur-
pluses not only suffered by bombiny: and other war activities, but
the sources of raw material and fuel with which to feed these indus-
tries have not been reestablished. Therefore if a fleet of four
million gross tons (1.7 million in farseas trading carrying 35%
of Japanese imports and exports) under conditicns oxisting in 1930-
1934 was surficient to moet Japan's waterborne transportation needs,
it would appear obvious that some lesser aiount will suffice until
Japanese export production has beon restored and overseas markets
developed.
Perhaps because shipping is in an exposed position and its
activities are more visible, there is a tendency to resort to it as
a means of sup lying anything which is lacking in the make-up of
economic problems. The effect upon our economy and the resulting
effect upon our merchant marine appears to have been overlooked.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
~11
September 221948
The occupational forces in Japan who vaited so long for United
States morchant ships to bring them supplies and transportation
when they were driving the Japanese from the territories which they
had invaded, should be the first to recognize the vital necessity
of maintaining an adequate active merchant marine fleet at all
times.
It had nct occurred to us until reading certain of the
reports propared for the Department of the Army, and made available
for public information, that tho Japanese merchant flect of the
future would be allowed to engage to a substantial degree in world
trading. le had caint. the ipression that Japanese ships of the
future would carry the domestic cormerce of those islands and be an
important factor in the short trades namely, between the homeland
and Korea, Formosa, Philippines and the immediate Asiatic mainland.
Le thought there would be vory caroful restrictions against allow-
ing Japanese tonrage in the long oversoas routos to the Western
Homisphere and European destinations, and perhaps to some degree
to S. E. Asia. The experiences of disturbing incidents caused by
Japanese activitios in foreign arcas seemed to us to support logi-
cally such a viewpoint.
For the reesons we have endeavored to present, American
steaiship ovmers who are members of this Foderation respectfully
asl that recommendations which have been made for the inmediate
rebuilding of the Japnese merchant fleet to a level equal to that
of 1930-1934, namely, epproximately four million gross tons, be
deferred until there is better ovidence that such action would be
in confornity wit a sound national and intornational policy.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper,
-12 -
September 22, 1948
epte
Among the
why we believe such an increase in Japan-
ese shipping at tre mawould be unsound, are the following:
1. Ve sug teit the peace of the world would best be
served by a policies,restricts Japanese shipping primarily to
the domestic Japand Liges and to service between Japan and
nearby continenta) Paland areas.
2. That  th shipping net income as represented by
its ratio to net the income, plays a small part in the overall
Japanese economy,sut nting less than 1%. Therefore, it is not
an effective meanppirancing Japunese finances or of raising
living standards.0,00
3. Ve quidiche justification of raising Japanese par-
ticipation in intsteral shipping to a relatively higher level
than is enjoyed bflatited States, particularly when such stimu-
lation of Japanesizecic recovery must be at our expense.
4. We qudinhether it is fair and just, at our expense,
to improve the ecnd tability and living standards of our recent
enemy to a point  shially superior to that of our recent allies
in the same geogrn rea.
5. Due tforte changes in government, physical condi-
tions and psycholent past achievements and statistical records
of Japan are not 3 st guides to the future production, overseas
commerce and finaplathe nation. No one can foresee the future
of Japanese indus Shielated to world trade. We suggest it
would be incautidu. Sovide Japan at this time with a merchant
marine of a giver y upon a purely conjectural theory that
certain tonnages te tts and exports will develop. The general
e tr

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-13-
September 22, 1948
and gradual improvenent of a cross-section of Japanese industry is
a more logical approach and as has been shown will better provide
the means of meeting any financial deficit.
6. Japaneso shipping althouch built and operated by cheap
labor has not been required by its government to compets upon a
free trade basis in international cormorce, but has been substan-
tially subsidized. Japan has not followed the principle sot down
by the U. S. in the Ierchant iiarino Act of 1936 of malting subsidy
payments only in an amount which will offset the low wages and
operating costs of competing foreign vessels thereby establishing
a condition of economic parity in copetition.
Ihen the subject matter of this letter is considered by
the Department of the Aray, by the Far Eastern Commission or by
other national or international agencies, this Federation will
greatly appreciate the opportunity of presenting further consider-
ations.
Very truly yours,
Frazer A. Bailey

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
scle
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: October 20, 1948
(Meeting held 5:00 PM)
SUBJECT:
U. S. Policy on Japanese Shipping
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Saugstad - TRC/S
Mr. Allison & Mr. Fearey - NA
Mr. Barnett - OFD
Mr. Smith - EP
Mr. Keyes - O
COPIES TO:
Participants
8
394.85/10-2048
ere
1-1408
Mr. Saugstad outlined the history and current problems in the general
field of U.S. shipping, giving the points made in Mr. Norton's memorandum
to Mr. Saltzman of October 12. He suggested the desirability of meeting
with representatives of the American shipping interests in order to explain
to them the present status of U. S. policy towards Japanese shipping and
894.642
shipbuilding and the reasons for such policy. He pointed out that TRC might
have to justify such policy before the American shipping interests and others
and he would therefore like to have it clarified for Mr. Norton and his office.
Messrs. Allison and Barnett explained some of the developments in U.S.
policy on this subject and considerations underlying them. Particular refer-
ence was made to negotiations between the State Department and the Army Depart-
ment, in which the latter supported a higher shipbuilding capacity for Japan
than the former, and Mr. Smith presented a letter on this point which he
proposed that Mr. Saltzman dispatch to Mr. Draper.
CS/A
It was agreed that Mr. Smith, in collaboration with Mr. Saugstad, would
prepare a memorandum setting forth the history and present status of U.S.
policy on this point. This would be discussed by the participants in this
meeting with a view towards establishing a State Department position and with
the further objective of holding a meeting with representatives of the American
94.85
would be reviewed and presented to Mr. Saltzman for signature.
M
O:ALKeyes:fa
1948

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.94)
EXECUTIVE 4650
CABLE: NAFAS
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SHIPPING, INC.
1809 G STREET, NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.
FRAZER A. BAILEY
October 28, 1948
ALFRED U. KREBS
PRESIDENT
COUNBEL
SAMUEL D. SCHELL
JOHN FORNEY RUDY
VICE-PRESIDENT
DIRECTOR QF PUBLIC R
00/7
This Document Must Be Returned to
JOHN B. FORD
W. BRUCE MACHAMEE
tra
EDWARD C. PHILLIPSO
DIRECTOR OF TELECOMMUNICATION
Mr. Jesse E. Saugstad
Shipping Livision
State Department
Washington 25, D. C.
My dear Mr. Saugstad:
You will recall that on September 22nd
the uncersigned addressed a letter to the Under
Secretary of the Army concerning the postwar
Japanese merchant marine, a copy of which was
supplied to you, but an additional copy is at-
tached for ready information.
89
We are now in receipt of a response
from Mr. Draper, as per copy attached.
4
You will also recall our conversation
18
from which I understood that in the near future a
conference would be arranged whereby representa-
001
tives of the Federation might have the opportunity
1
of discussing this matter with the State Department
2
representatives on the Far East Commission. We
C3
will be deeply grateful if such a conference can
4
be arranged on an entirely informal basis in the
C0
near future.
Sincerely yours,
08194.85/10
F.A. Pacee
Frazer A. Bailey
Attachments
FAB/hw

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
12 0CT 1948
Mr. Frazer A. Bailey, President
National Federation of American Shipping, Ino.
1809 G. Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bailey:
Thank you for your letter of 22 September 1948 concerning
the Japanese merchant marine. The information contained therein
will be retained here for use in our continuing study of this
problem and a copy will be forwarded to SCAP.
With reference to your request for an opportunity to
present further views when this subject is considered by inter
governmental bodies such as the Far Eastern Commission, it is
suggested th t you contact the Department of State, since that
Department is the agency through which matters pertaining to
activities of the FEC are coordinated.
Sincerely yours,
SIGNED
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the Arry

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
NATIONAL FED RATION OF AMERICAN SHIPPING, INC.
180. G Street, Northwest
Washington, D. C.
September 22, 1948
William H. Draper, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of the Army
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.
Subject: Japanese Merchant Marine
My dear Mr. Draper:
Referring to my letter of May 26; your response of June 1,
and to our subsequent conversation with respect to postwar plans
of Japanese merchant shipping.
As set forth in our letter of May 26, and as I stated to
you at the time of our meeting, American steamship owners are con-
siderably concerned about our national policy, and perhaps the
matter of an internaticnal policy, respecting the future of Jap-
anese shipping in the international trades. You were kind enough
to advise me that no de inite policy from a national standpoint
had been decided upon, and you invited expressions from American
steamship owners represented by this Federation concerning such a
policy.
The purpose of this letter is to present such views as are
presently in the minds of the American steamship owners we represent,
comprising about two-thirds of all privately owned American flag
ships.
We understand there is no certainty at the moment as to
where the final decision will be reached, i.e., whether by the
Department of the Army; the Supreme Commander of Allied Powers;

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 2 -
September 22, 1948
the Far Eastern Commission; or some other American governmental or
international tribunal. We also understand that if some agency.
other than the Department of the Army is to determine. these ques-
tions you will advise us so that our representations may be made
before the determinative body.
In the first iistance, may we say that the interest we
represent are not unmindful of the task which confronts the United
States and/or the Allied Nations endeavoring to restore the Jap-
anese national to a level of reasonable living standards and of
reasonable economic stability. We are equally clear, however, that
the effect of these efforts upon our own national economy and upon
those of the Allied Nations cannot be ignored.
As stated to you, American shipping interests have no ambi-
tion to monopolize Pacific Ocean shipping. The United States has
never attained a maritime position commensurate with its geographic
and economic status, and as a leader in the United Nations Organi-
zation. No nation which has failed to maintain its flag upon the
seas has long retained a position of influence and leadership in
world affairs. History is replete with examples to the contrary.
The Congress of the United States in passing the Merchant
Marine Act of 1936 st ted it to be a national policy that the United
States shall have a merchant marine to carry its domestic water-
borne commerce, a substantial portion of its foreign commerce, and
capable of serving as a naval and military auxiliary in time of war
or national emergency.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 3 -
September 22, 1948
In implementing this national policy we envision a merchant
fleet of modern combination and cargo vessels under the United
States flag manned by American officers and seamen, transporting all
of our domestic coastwise and intercoastal and territory commerce
and at least one-half of our imports and exports, and backed by a
fleet of modern passenger-carrying vessels providing transportation
and communication between the United States and important world
areas. This in effect is the target which is in the minds of certair
American shipping interests and we believe of a substantial portion
of the American publi.
le submit that it is not an overambitious policy to envision
such an American merchant fleet. The carriage of one-half of our
own commerce is a goal which has not, however, been reached since the
early Colonial days when our forebears exceeded this achievement by
building and operating the finest type of vessels the world had
theretofore known.
During the period prior to World War II the American Mer-
chant Marine was transporting less than 30% of our own imports and
exports. During the typical period 1930-1934, which apparently has
been selected to measure the level of Japanese restoration, the Jap-
anese merchant marine was transporting 65% of its farseas exports
and imports, 92% of its nearseas and 100% of its domestic commerce.
While contemplating the necessities of our erstwhile enemies and
with every humane and compassionate feeling, it would seem to us
paradoxical to elevate those vho have recently been restrained by
supreme military effort and who were important factors in disturbing
the peace of the world to a position in world shipping relatively

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 4 -
September 22, 1948
superior to that enjoyed by our own American ships prior to World
War II, or in the foreseeable future.
We recognize your statement, Mr. Secretary, that strenuous
measures will be necessary to restore to Japan reasonable living
and economic standards. We suggest that it is not an easy accom-
plishment in other parts of the world. We suggest consideration
as to whether we may with equity and justice, and at our expense,
elevate the living standards of our recent emenies to a higher
level than those of our allies in the same area during the same con-
flict.
There appears to be a misconception regarding the histori-
cal earnings of the Japanese merchant fleet. A Department of Com-
merce publication shows that in l937 the ratio of Japan net shipping
receiptsto its exports was 4.7%. This is to be compared with the
ratio of 36.5% for No: vay; 24.1% for Greece; 13.4% for the United
Kingdom; 9.2% for the Netherlands and 7.1% for Denmark. We use
the year 1937 as the only record available to us. We assume it to
be respresentative.
More important, however, is the ratio of Japanese net income
from shipping to the total Japanese national income. The same
source shows that net shipping income represented less than 1% of
the total national income of Japan for the year 1937. To be exact,
the figure is O.7%. This may be compared with the shipping income
ratio to national income of other maritime nations as follows:
Norway 11.2%; Denmark 2.5%; Netherlands 2.4%; United Kingdom 1.3%;
and Sweden l.1%. It is, therefore, obvious that the item of net

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr. .
-5 -
Septembep 22, 1948
shipping income is not the proper approach to balancing the budget
or increasing the living standards in Japan. It should be borne in
mind that this result was obtained when Japan was carrying approx-
1mately 65% of her farseas import and export commerce. It would
appear that a more feasible method would be to raise the general
productivity of Japanese industries and that only a very small in-
crease is necessary to accomplish the necessary result.
The balance of payments earnings from shipping as compiled by
the Japanese Department of Finance in the period 1930-1934 averaged
li9.26 millioi yen per annum. This is the equivalent of 42.81
million dollars per annum. Even this figure, as will be later
shown, overstates the balance of payments earnings because of the
unusual and incorrect ..ethod of reporting. Further it fails to take
into account certain expenditures necessary to support shipping
operations which must be made in foreign currencies.
As an example: Japan is almost entirely devoid of domestic
fuel oil. When purchased in Japan by Japanese shipping, such ex-
pense has not been adjusted a ainst the net balance-of-payment
earnings from shipping. Cbviously the expenses of acquiring such
fuel oil abroad and importing it into Japan for the use of Japanese
ships should be deducted against the balance of payments earnings
from shipping.
In the past the Japanese have adopted a method of reporting
balance of payments under which imports are valued CIF and exports
are valued FAS--a procedure which distorts and overstates any balance
of trade deficit by an amount equal to the total transportation
charges on imports. Tis unusual procedure has resulted in errors

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr!
一 6 -
September 22, 1948
by competent economists, including some who have made surveys for
the Army. For a more complete study of what is termed the "chronio
bias" in the Japanese balance of payments figures, we respectfully
refer you to "The Industrialization of Japan and Manchukuo, 1930-
1940," by Schumpeter, Allen, Gordon and Penrose, Pages 908 to 925.
The Japanese from the very beginning of their modern epoch
offered Japanese shipping something more than the opportunity to
compete in free trade with low cost labor. About sixteen years
after Perry's second visit, the Mitsubishi Shipping Company was
organized in 1870. Government subsidies of 250,000 yen per annum
were then granted. Additional government subsidies were granted
other shipping companies as they came into existence.
In 1896 the Japanese not only offered flat sum subsidies
to operators of foreign routes but also formalized into legislation
a plan for postal subventions and for shipbuilding subsidies in
substantial amounts. The postal subventions and the shipping
subsidies were contin'ed to World War II. The shipbuilding sub-
sidies were discontinued in 1918 but were again resumed in 1932.
The Japanese also provided indirect subsidies for their shipping
by subsidizing their steel industry to the extent that it produced
steel for ships, and by relieving shipbuilding steel, shipbuilding
tools, etc. from import duties. A detailed explanation of these
subsidies may be found on pages 319 to 351 of Shipping and Ship-
building Subsidies published in 1932 by the U. S. Department of
Commerce.
The Japanese themselves do not estimate that they will
need any large income from shipping to balance their economy in

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-7 -
September 22, 1948
"1952". Their "Economic Rehabilitation Plan" has set exports of
1,646 million dollars and imports of 1,657 million dollars as the
goal for the year "1952" even after the overstated method of valuing
imports CIF. Their balance of trade deficit, although distorted
by overstatement, is thus only ll million dollars per annum, if
their goals are reached.
Fearing the impression may prevail that the living standards
presently prevailing in Japan are more sub-standard than actually
exists, we feel it desirable to state a few high-light facts. The
average daily caloric intake in rural areas exceeded 2250 calories
per day in November 1947, and about 5% less for the 1947 annual
average, according to SCAP's Summation of Non-Military Activities
in Japan for May 1948. According to the same source, the urban
areas average was 2oco calories per day in the same month and aver-
aged about 93% of that figure for the full year. This is to be
compared with an average daily caloric intake prewar of approximately
2250 according to calculations of the Japanese and 2000 for 1940
and 194l according to calculations of the Medical Division of
the U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey. Our information is that the
caloric intake of Bizone Germany at the present time is between
2100 and 2300 calories per day and of France approximately 2700
calories per day, exclusive of alcoholic beverages. We consider
this a most creditable showing by the authorities in the occupation
areas.
The future position of Japan in world affairs and commerce
cannot be foreseen. Japanese authorities assure us that no one in

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
e
William H. Draper, 'Jr.
- 8 -
September 22,1948
Japan expected the surrender to lead to a complete change in the
form of Government. They expected a constitutional monarchy.. It
must be remembered that for more than 200 years prior to Commodore:
Perry's visit in 1853 Japan's foreign commerce had been strongly
banned and the country had been living in a feudal state ruled
over by the Tokugawa Shogunate. The Emperor's authority was so far
eclipsed that the first American consul was ignorant of even the
existence of such a personage for two years after his arrival..
With the coming of Perry and the restoration of the Meiji
dynasty, Japan entered upon a new and entirely different phase of
its development. Individual loyalty was transferred from the feudal
lords to the emperor. The succeeding regime was under a type of
monarchical control, and in a substantial degree industrial deve-
lopment was dominated by cartels or family group holdings, in which
it is thought that the monarchy held financial interest. Through
all these periods the individual was completely subservient to the
State. Personal freedom and dignity were not part of the Japanese
order.
We now come to a new epoch in Japan's history with the
establishment of constitutional democratic government and the con-
cept of human rights and liberty. No one can foresee how the
Japanese people will react to their new environment. Past history
and statistics of a completely different governmental and economic
system provide no reliable guide. It would be a rash policy to use
past milestones to measure future progress, and to plot a completely
theoretical course under which Japanese agriculture, industry and
commerce would develop.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
William H. Draper, Jr.
● 9 -
Soptember 22, 1948
While the Japanese people must learn something of the mean-
ing of retribution, and measures must also be adopted to prevent
their again disturbing the peace of the world, every element of
the American people favor a humane and realistic course under which
by industry and intelligence they may regain a properly balanoed
position in world affairs wd th reasonable living standards. All
this must, however, be accomplished with a full realization of its
impact and effect upon our own financial and economic affairs.
Sound judgment would dictate a cautious procedure.
To say in what industries and to what extent the new order
in Japan is most adaptable, and would be most successful, appears
precarious. Because he Japenese merchant marine of 1930-1934 con-
sisted of about four million gross tons, to now accept as sound
policy a recommendation advanced by certain survey authorities that
a merchant marine of equal size should forthwith be provided, com-
pletely ignores the historical background and changed Japanese and
world conditions, and goes far into the field of simple conjecture.
We suggest that there is no reliable information to indicate
the size and volume of future Japanese exportable surpluses and
that the statistical records of past production of factory, mines
and agriculture furnish no reliable yardstick of the commodities
and of the volume which may be available in the future for shipment
overseas. Nor is there any dependable data as to what foreign mar-
kets are available if such production can be accomplished. To
arbitrarily set up a Japanese shipping fleet of a given capacity
with so little knowle ge of the future industrial development of
Japan would be an unwise course to pursue.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-10 -
September 22, 1948
The merchant marine policy should rather be integrated
with the overall industrial development as it occurs, taking into
account the many national and international complications. When
the Ear Eastern Commission on January 23, 1947 decided as a matter
of policy that the peacetime standard of living of the Japanese
people should be set at the level prevailing during the years
1930-1934, they specified that acceptance of this policy should not
be interpreted to mean acceptance in advance of a specific level
for any particular industry. There is some justification in seleo-
ting these years as the statistical record shows evidence that it
was just prior to extraordinary expenditures for military purposes.
Japanese industries which must largely furnish export sur-
pluses not only suffered by bombing and other war activities, but
the sources of raw material and fuel with which to feed these indus-
tries have not been reestablished. Therefore if a fleet of four
million gross tons (1.7 million in farseas trading carrying 65%
of Japanese imports and exports) under conditions existing in 1930-
1934 was sufficient to meet Japan's waterborne transportation needs,
it would appear obvious that some lesser amount wdll suffice until
Japanese export production has been restored and overseas markets
developed.
Perhaps because shipping is in an exposed position and its
activities are more visible, there is a tendency to resort to it as
a means of supplying anything which is lacking in the make-up of
economic problems. T.e effect upon our economy and the resulting
effect upon our merchant marine appears to have been overlooked.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-11 -
September 22, 1948
The occupational forces in Japan who waited so long for United
States merchant ships to bring them supplies and trensportation
when they were driving the Japanese from the territories which they
had invaded, should be the first to recognize the vital necessity
of maintaining an adequate active merchant marine fleet at all
times.
It had not occurred to us until reading certain of the
reports prepared for the Department of the Army, and made available
for public information, that the Japanese merchant fleet of the
future would be allowed to engage to a substantial degree in world
trading. e had gained the impression that Japanese ships of the
future would carry the domestic commerce of those islands and be an
important factor in the short trades namely, between the homeland
and Korea, Formosa, Philippines and the immediate Asiatic mainland.
Ve thought there would be very careful restrictions against allow-
ing Japanese tonnage in the long overseas routes to the Western
Hemisphere and European destinations, and perhaps to some degree
to S. E. Asia. The experiences of disturbing incidents caused by
Japanese activities i. foreign areas seemed to us to support logi-
cally such a viewpoint.
For the reasons we have endeavored to present, American
steamship owners who are members of this Federation respectfully
ask that recommendations which have been made for the immediate
rebuilding of the Japanese merchant fleet to a level equal to that
of 1930-1934, namely, approximately four million gross tons, be
deferred until there is better evidence that such action would be
in conformity with a sound national and international policy.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
William H. Draper, Jr.
-12 -
September 22, 1948
Among the reasons why ve believe such an increase in Japan-
ese shipping at this time would be unsound, are the following:
1. We suggest that the peace of the world would best be
served by a policy which restricts Japanese shipping primarily to
the domestic Japanese trades and to service between Japan and
nearby continental and island areas.
2. That Japanese shipping net income as represented by
its ratio to net national income, plays a small part in the overall
Japanese economy, representing less than 1%. Therefore, it is not
an effective means of balancing Japanese finances or of raising
living standards.
3. We question the justification of raising Japanese par-
ticipation in international shipping to a relatively higher level
than is enjoyed by the United States, particularly when such stimu-
lation of Japanese economic recovery must be at our expense.
4. We question whether it is fair and just, at our expense,
to improve the economic stability and living standards of our recent
enemy to a point substantially superior to that of our recent allies
in the same geographic area.
5. Due to complete changes in government, physical condi-
tions and psychology, the past achievements and statistical records
of Japan are not reliable guides to the future production, overseas
commerce and finances of the nation. No one can foresee the future
of Japanese industry as related to world trade. We su gest it
would be incautious to provide Japan at this time with a merchant
marine of a given capacity upon a purely conjectural theory that
certain tonnages in imports and exports will develop. The general

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
William H. Draper, Jr.
- 13-
September 22, 1949
and gradual improvement of a cross-section of Japanese industry is
a more logical approach and as has been shown will better provide
the means of meeting any financial deficit.
6. Japanese shipping although built and operated by cheap
labor has not been required by its government to compete upon a
free trade basis in international commerce, but has been substan-
tially subsidized. Japan has not followed the principle set down
by the U. S. in the Merchant Marine Act of 1936 of making subsidy
payments only in an amount which will offset the low wages and
operating costs of competing foreign vessels thereby establishing
a condition of economic parity in competition.
When the subject matter of this letter is considered by
the Department of the Army, by the Far Eastern Commission or by
other national or international agencies, this Federation will
greatly appreciate the opportunity of presenting further considera-
tions.
Very truly yours,
Frazer A. Bailey

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
THE FOPEIGN UÉRVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 456
American Embassy,
RESTRICTED
to mA
G·DIVISION OFD G
NORTHEASTCASIAN AFFAIRS
STAIE
27
工
DEC - 1948
E0F
Subject:
Transmission of Letter for National
Federation of American Shippin EPARIMENI OF STATE
IT
5
EN
containing Protest against Restoration
DERARTMEN
3
of Japanese Merchant Marine
R
The umbassador has the honor to inform the Department
that he received the folHowing letter dated October 12,
1948, fro r. Y. L. Lee, Secretary Goneral, National
Association cf Chinese Shiyowners, Shanghai:
"I have the honor to enelose herevith a com-
2
municetion in Chinese accompanied with English
version addressed to The Nutional Federation of
ACTION
American Shiping, contents of Which speaks for
FE
itself. I would re uest your kindness to transmit
COPIES
the letter in duplicate to The Federation and retain
TO.O
the triplicate copy for your file.
TP
1T8
"Trusting that the declaration of the Chinese
OFD
shipovners as erbodied in the letter under reference
will receive your full endorsement, I have the honor
0L1
to be, Sir. Your obedient servant."
DCR
As reguested by the vriter of this letter, there are
enclosed the cri inal und duplicate copies, in English
and Chinese, of the letter under reference, the English
version of which has the subject "Protest against Re-
storation of Japanese Yerchant Marine." These are being
transmitted withcut conment to the Department, the
National Association of Chinese Shipowners being so
informed.
as policy considerations are involved, the Embassy
will expect the Department to make its own decision re-
garding the possible transmission of this letter to the
National Fedcration of American Shirping. A hectograph
copy of the letter is also attached..
DOR NEU
40
STATE
50
Enclosures:
H
1/ Original and duplicate copies,
in English and Chinese, of
letter dated 0ctober 12, 1948,
addressed to National Federa-
tion of American Shipping;
6
2/Hectograph
RESTRICTED

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
Despatch No. 456
November 3, 1948
American Embassy
RESTRICTED
Nanking, China
-2-
2/ Hectograph copy of English
text of this letter.
885 Shipping
CHBoehringer:vhl
Original and hectograph to the Department
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai
Copy to USTOLAD, Tokyo
Cony to Naval Attache, Embassy, Hanking
RESTRICTED
Etis

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.84)
副本
識敵做宅使略的工具宅決不敢放起世界大戰的機天對火爲防止日本再度侵略限制日本的間
們無限的破鳳與共囑效經本曾一致決談與貞會共同努力呼額貫找兩國相其他有國家當局的注
簡船到凶百萬順的繼議列舉六大埋田說明日剛不應增加日本的問船順四深課遠應引起了找
待解決的間趙其中關於盧繼日本觀來一點敗史找們注意和照應
美利合米圖全國輪船樂合會公鑒
由
事日本自由
中華民國輪船商業同業公會全國聯合會公國
在上次日本毀勤的慢略載之中同盟國所受的損失非常重大如果日本當時沒有強大的陶結
上月廿二日貞曾代義全美國的統樂界致幽座次德來初光生鄭重也識強斯致報告內盧越日本
中國各地乘代及今日集合於上海學行第二次全國性的曾議檢討國內外航藥備況以及意
民國辦七年十月八
字第一六三三
件
附
第
日
琥
頁
號
文收

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.62)
日本國圖的國以其本國指海親國除說連出證國任
三百萬周數手的盜國無不表小及到一九四八年五月傳來初計劉一更進一步的姓識秋
從寬通唐估計四不過八十萬順不科一九四八年三月寅四又有所謂斯通兌計劃一主張成寬到
世界有藏之士已經為對於本太見大了因為日本在本國運上約而要不過五治為左石
·我公正且
中事氏疾一同愛好用于也且鬼大為次小定故後也伏不改尊此日本人的生信水半為
國食日本腦價的闕題一九四六年五月旋出了一萊計副一主張在許日本保百一百五指萬的

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.58)
甲夷順圖之傳枕的反祖為有正變為者相平為看兩國的共同利益必能手通進來增通人親的
變調日本曲船順留之會智的認禮相有力的止論無疑的中美兩國處乘界者于海存文化的交流相
早巳嘗不美國獨日估計的指誤此時更通侍四應與廟繼！找門謹以燕上的舉說與信念善應貫僧
一次大載結東央國伏隱政策鑄成了大蹈此連覆不可皇蹈以兄養充始思爾曰錄
以緊強的決心努刀目助目立以迎後反邦而曲助中美兩國臣周作戰多年利考得天功蘭相關弟
國圖的經濟復興也猶中國的統乘經數圖然比日本更爲意要中國現有簡不過一日二十馬順
解決我山人對一斷兒甘劉一及一總米初可劉一的片回建
要美國的後助相合作·來元威必要的國點建故

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.73)
我·倘止再皮便略的秘疼！
中華民圖輪船國藥同藥公會全國聯合會
信務理事徐學禹
理學長杜月金
徐恩曾

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
中華民國輪船商業同業公會聯合會
NATIONAL·ASSOCIATION OF CHINESE SHIPOWNERS
ADDRESS:
TELEPHONE
99 HANKOW ROAD
NO. 11460
SHANGHAI. CHINA
October 12, 1948
National Federation of merican Shipping,
United States of America.
Dear Sirs,
PROTEST AGAINST RESTORATION OF JAPANESE MERCHANT MARINE
On Cctober 8, 1948, the shipping representatives from the various
districts of China assenbled at the Second Annual National Convention held
in Shanghai to discuss numerous problems relating to shipping and their
attention wasdrawn particularly to the question of restoration of Japanese
merchant marine.
It will be noted that in your letter sent on September 22, 1948 to
Maj. Gen. William . Draper Jr., Assistant Secretary of Army, you filed six
points protesting against the so called Johnston Report proposing to restore
Japanese Merchant fleet to 4,CC0,CC0 tons. Your timely and far-sighted
protest has elicited no small amount of universal applause; a resolution is
therefore passed at the National Convention to give active and effective
support to your protest by calling the attention of our respective Governments
concerned to the serious consequences, which will inevitebly follow, should
the Japanese merchant marine be resuscitated.
Considering the heavy losses sustained during the World War II by
the llies, we cannot but attribute the holocaust to the power of the Japanese
merchant fleet which enabled her to wage the war of aggression and it is only
natural to take precautionary measures restricting their tonnage so as to
prevent fut ure resurgence.
In connection with Japanese reparations problems We noticed that in
May 1947, the Pauley Plan reconmended the retention by Japan of 1,500,000 tons
which, in the opinion of com et ent observers, is considered too lenient in
view of the fact that 5c0,ooc tons would be enough for her domestic commerce
and that 1, Cco, Coc tons would robably be more than double her actual needs.
However, in Mareh 1948, r. lifrord Strike submitted to the Assistant Secretary
of Mar a report proposing an increase of Japanese merchant tonnage to 3,000,000
tons, thus draving strong protests from the various quarters of the earth who
were participants of the War II. How to the surpris an ammzement of all the
worla, the Draper Plan as compiled by Mr. P. Johnston gives recommendation for
restoring Japan's tonnage to the prenr level of ,, tons! Needless to
say, this is merely a proposition ani not a decided policy, the formulation of
which will take into account the mutual and conmion interests of the Allies,
particularly Chine, which cannot be oblivous to the terrific suferrings and
devastations wrought during the var that has just ended. And how can the
American Government and people forget the Pearl Harbour?
500-37-10

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
The Chinese nation, being peace-loving and magnanimous, has no
inclination towards revenge and does not intend to lower the standard
of living of the Japanese people. In the interest of permanent world
peace, however, we beg leave to put forward the following concrete
proposals:
(1) To maintain the spirit of the Potsdam Declaration by restricting the
Japanese merchant fleet to one million tons.
(2) The activities of Japanese ships shall be restricted to her coastal
trade excluding them from overseas commerce which will be solely
undertaken by the Allied Powers.
(3) The surplus tonnage and shipbuilding equipments shall be apportioned
among the Allies as reparations; the Chinese claim for half million
tons of Japanese ships should be approved forthwith. It is to be
noted that not a single ton has so far been handea over to China.
(4) The economic recovery of the Allies is deemed more important than
Japanese recovery; the Chinese shipping, now only 1,200,000 tons,
falls far short or her normal requirements. China, therefore, has
good reason to claim the assistance and cooperation of the United
States in her program of reconstruction.
(5) Early convocation of Peace Conference with Japan for the reasonale
settlement of various outstandin problems such as reparationsJapans
industrial requirements and her merchant marine restrictions.In the
latter case we are definitely opposed to the "Strike" and "Draper"
plans.
The Chinese shipping representatives as assembled here
are
resolved to exert themselves in the promotion of their shipping industry
with the assistance of friendly nations in order that the standard of
living of the Chiuese people may be improved and that Chinese economic
reconstruction may be accomplished. China, beins her ally in war, has
many interests in common with the United States. The tragic error of
the British foreign olicy vis-a-vis Germany following the World War I
is a stern lesson to the resent policymakers. The Memoirs of Cordell
Hull has already brought into light the mistakes comnitued by the United
States in underestimating the strength of Japan. We, therefore, in all
sincerity an. truth, endorse and support your protest against
the
retoration of Japanese merchant marine, based as it is on the deep and
clear understanding of the question at issue. There can be no doubt that
the Chinese and American peoples engaged in shipping business will in
their tracitional cordiality and cultural inter-relationships cooperate
to fight for the reservation of justice end peace, for the welfare of
the two countries, and for the prevention of future dang rs of aggression.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.93)
Yours truly,
Dou yush Sen
hm
(Doo Yueh-sen)
Chairman, National Association
of Chinese Shipowners.
4m. Chin
金甜
(Y. . Chien)
Director, Standing Committee,
Mational Association of Chinese
Shipowners.
(0liver 4i)
Director, Standing Committee,
ational Association of Chinese
Shipowners.
kk.yau
(K. P. Yang)
Director, Standing Comittee,
Mational Association oChinese
魏
Shipowners.
(Wei Wen-han)
Director, Standing Committee,
National Association of Chinese
Shipowners.
M. T. Hu
(Hsu Un-tsen)
Director, Standing Committee,
Mational Association of Chinese
Shipowners.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
Despatch No. 456
November 3, 1948
RESTRICTED
Nanking, China
(Copy)
中華民國輪船商業同業公會聯合會
FATIONAL ASSOCTATION OF CHINESE SHIPOWNERS
Address:
Telephone
99 Hankow Road
No. 11460
Shanghai, China
October 12, 1948
National Federation of merican Shinping,
United States of America.
Dear Sirs,
PROTEST AGAILST RESTORATION OF
JAPANESE LERCHANT LARINE
On October 8, 1946, the shi ping representatives from
the various districts of China assembled at the Second
Annual National Convention held in Shanghai to discuss
numerous problems relating to shi ping and their attention
was dravn particularly to the guestion of restoration of
Japanese merchant marine.
It will be noted that in ycur letter sent on Sep-
tember 22, 1948 to Maj. Gen. Willian H. Draper Jr.,
Assistant Secretary of rny, you filed six points protesting
against the so called Johnston Report proposing to re-
store Japanese erchant flcet to 4,O00,o00 tons. Your
timely and far-sighted protest has elicited no small
amount of universal applause; a resolution is therefore
passed at the National Convention to give active and
effective support to your protest by calling the attention
of our respective Governments concerned to the serious
consequences, vhich will inevitably follow, should the
Japanese merchant marine be resuscitated.
Considering the heavy losses sustained during the
World War II by the Allies, we cannot but attribute the
holocaust to the power of the Japanese merchant fleet which
enabled her to wage the war of aggression and it is only
natural to take precautionary measures restricting their
tonnage so as to prevent future resurgence.
In connection vith Japanese reparations problems we
noticed that in Iay 1947, the Fauley Plan recom ended the
retention by Japan of 1,500,000 tons which, in the opinion
of competent observers, is considered too lenient in view
of
RESTRICTED

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
Despatch No. 456
November 3, 1948
RESTRICTED
Nanking, China
-2-
of the fact that 500,000 tons would be enough for her
domestic comerce and that 1,000,000 tons would probably
be morc than double her actual needs. However, in March
1948, Ir. Clifford Strike submitted to the Assistant
Secretary of War a report proposing an increase of Japanese
merchant tonnage to 3,c00,000 tons, thus drawing strong
protests from the various uarters of the earth who were
participants of the ar II. Kow to the surprise and
amazement of all the world, the Drayer Plan as compiled
by Mr. I. Johnston gives recor endation for restoring
Japan's tonnage to the prewar level of 4, 000,000 tons!
Heedless to say, t' is is merely a proposition and not a
decided policy, the formulation of which will take into
account the mutual and conmon interests of the Allies,
particularly China, Which cannot be oblivous to the
terrific suferrings und devastations wrought during the
war that has just ended. md how can the American Govern-
ment and peorle forget the Yearl Harbour?
The Chinese nation, being peace-loving and magnan-
imous, has no inclination tovards revenge and does not
intend to lower the standard of living of the Japanese
people. In the interest of  ermanent world peace, however,
we beg leave to put forward the following concrete
proposals:
(1) To maintain the spirit of the Totsdam Declaration by
restricting the Japanese merchant fleet to one million
tons.
(2)
The activities of Japanese ships shall be restricted
to her coastal trade excluding them from overseas
commerce whicl will be solely undertaken by the
Allied lovers.
(3)
The surplus tonnage end shipbuilding equipments shall
be apportioned among the Allies as reparations; the
Chinese claim for half million tons of Japanese ships
should be ap roved forthvith. It is to be
noted that not a single ton has so far been handed
over to China.
(4)
The economic recovery of the Allies is deemed more
important than Japanese recovery; the Chinese shipping,
now only 1,200,000 tons, falls fer short of her normal
requirements. China, therefore, has good reason to
claim the assistance and cooperation of the United
States in her program of reconstruction.
(5) Early
RESTRICTED

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
Despatch No. 456
November 3, 1948
RESTRICTED
Nanking, China
-3-
(5) Early convocation of Feace Conference with Japan for
the reasonale settlement of various outstanding prob-
lems such as reparations, Japan's industrial re-
quirements and her merchant marine restrictions. In
the lattcr case we are definitely opposed to the
"Strike" and "Draper" plans.
The Chinese shipping representatives as assembled
here are resolved to exert themselves in the promotion of
their shipping industry with the assistance of friendly
nations in order that the standard of living of the
Chinese people may be improved und that Chinese economic
reconstruction muy be accomplished. China, being her
ally in war, has many interests in conmon with the United
States. The tragic error of the british foreign policy
vis-a-vis Germany folloving the World War I is a stern
lesson to the  resent rolicymakers. The memoirs of Cordell
Hull has already brought into light the mistakes committed
by the United States in underestimating the strength of
Japan. he, therefore, in all sincerity and truth,
endorse and sup ort your protest against the retoration
of Japanese merch nt marine, based as it is on the deep
and clear understanding of the question at issue. There
can be no doubt that the Chinese and American peoples
engaged in shir ing business will in their traditional
cordiality and cultural inter-relationships cooperate
to fight for the preservation of justice and peace, for
the welfare of the two countries, and for the prevention
of future dangers of aggression.
Yours truly,
(signed and sealed)
Doo Yueh-sen
Chairman, National Association
of Chinese Shipowners.
(signed and sealed)
Y. I. Chien
Director, Standing Committee,
National ssociation of
Chinese Shipowners.
(signed and sealed)
Oliver Zi
Director, Standing Committee,
National Association of
Chinese Shipowners.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 308 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2
Despatch No. 456
November 3, 1948
RESTRICTED
Nanking, China
-4-
(signed and sealed)
K. P. Yang
Director, Standing Committee,
National Association of
Chinese Shipowners.
(signed and sealed)
Wei Wen-han
Director, Standing Committee,
National association of
Chinese Shipowners.
(signed and sealed)
Hsu Un-tsen
Director, Standing Committee,
National ssociation of
Chinese Shipowners.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 
TO
: MWB
DATE: December 6, 1948
FROM : MG NUG.
SUBJECT: Nanking'ε 456
On behalf of the National Association of Chinese Ship-
owners, Amembassy Nanking transmits a letter to the National
Federation of American Shipping protesting US policy of
restoring the Japanese Merchant Marine. The letter argues
that Japan's ships be restricted to coastal trade, that
Japanese shipbuiiding equipment be made immediately available
as reparations, that the Japanese fleet be reduced to one
million tons.
FE action on this despatch presumably calls for trans-
mission of this letter to the Federation. However, I can
see no justification for the transmisslon through Us Govern-
ment channels of a letter from an association in China to a
private federation in this country. In this case it 1s
particularly inadvisable in view of the Chinese Association's
position which is inimical to our interests but which might
be regarded by the American Federation as sympathetically
viewed by the State Department, inasmuch as the latter grat-
uitously undertook to transmit the letter.
I recommend that the letter be returned to Amembassy,
Nanking, with instructions that private correspondence not
be sent through Department channels. I have checked this
point with Mrs. Kent of S/S-CR. Action should be taken by CA.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.85)
TRC
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ddepk
UNITED STATES CF AMERICA
894.6/11-348
No. 946.
ALERICA: CONSULATE GENERAL,
UNCLASSIFTED.
Shanghai, China, Hovember 3, 1948.
SUCT:  HANT R.
The Coreut caerel tas the hoher te tefer to the letter of
Rec'd
Septerber Fa, le, sadressa o ur Willlem  Dreper, Jr.,
Nov 10
Assistamt seeretery of the army, by ths e lcaal Federetion cf
Amerieen sirpng co arane the Patare cf Jepenese shipping. The
ACTION
office of the shipine aveser has suesrsved that this Consulate
TRC
coment r e sube
INFO
See tae ead or te pe w was, Chamere shippame cireles
FR
mave bee e epoe o y ext   ival of the epensse
DR
mepobent aetae ue e e e eer cosootecone.
0
ITP
   r   o
ODD
.       e   hs
8
OLI
     .
6
COM
1948)     t mn at as
4
MC
e    
8
Rewer w prey fo oe r or ed
5
between he h  ed   d s. 
sop viesps
was e d 
CN
849
But etm 
th
fe
Jaren
to e 
ef     . t d 
eo forwerd uatet ortee   tes of the lelter ef f A
to br Dreper vas eby  rro m ertle phet oppened  the
shanger En P C.  Ts cle eave a
summery ef the betes  r pee a sute the six peats
pefenred o    
The Chinese
et Neking e y  ttn   n Rece 
a copy of chet lutter is ot aeeitalle. tat it vill be forverded
upon his returm leser in the veek.
FO1
To fil
FILED
Lon
649
ACTION COPY
OV1519
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.94)
UNCLASSIFIKD.
-2-
On page 1i of the N.F A.S letter to hir. Draper is the statement
that N.F A.S were uadsr the impression that Japenese ships of the
future would operate between the homeland, Korea, Formosa, the
Pailippines and the ammediate Asiatic mainlend. Refereace is not
made to China but "Asiatic mainland" epparently means just that.
These are the trade routes that the Chinese shipormers are most
interested in developing for their cm ships, and they ere naturally
as enxlous to prevent the varival of Jepanese shipping in these near
sea laaes es she Arericen shiperners sre to prevent them from
re-entering the more distant ones.
Imclcsure: One.
A.C.Fleming/cgg
To the Department in perehmaent mat.
Copy to Amerlcen Embassy, Nenking.
UNCLASSTFIED

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.91)
COPY.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHINESE SHIPOWNERS.
Address:
Telephone
99 Hankow Read,
No. 11460.
Shanghai, China.
October 12, 1948.
National Federation of American Shipping.
United States of Anerica.
Dear Sirs:
PROTEST AGAINST RESTORATTON OF JAPANESE MERCHANT MARINE.
On Oc tober 8, l948, the shipping representatives from the verious
districts of China assembled at the Second Annuel National Cenvention held in
Shanghai to diseuss numerous probloms releting to shipping and their attention
was drawn particularly to the guestion of restoration of Japanese merchant
marine
It will be oted that in your letter sent on September 22, 1948 to
Major Gen. William H, Draper, Jz., Assistert Secretary of Army, you filed six
points protesting against the so ca'led so Rport proposing to restore
Japanese Merchant fleet to 4, coe, oco tous rour timely and far-sighted protest
has elicited no smell ameunt of niveraal applause; a resolution is therefore
passed at the llational Coavention to give active and effective support to your
protest by calling the attentien of our respective Governments concermed to the
serious censequences. mich will ihevitably follow, should the Japanese merchant
merine be resuscatated
Considerins the heavy loases sustsined during the World War II by the
Allies, we cannot but cttzibite th loceust to the power of the Japanese
mershent fleet rlch enetrd Le  vage the war ofggression and it is only
natural to take preeatvionsry neasures restricting tneir tonnag so as to
prevent future resurgence
In connection witn Jopanere reparatrona prepiems we noticed that in
May 1947, the Patley Plen
de th reteution  Japen of 1. 500. 000 tons
which, in the opinlon of compevsat cuservers, is considered too lenlent in view
of the fact that soo ooo tons vould be enougt for her domeatic conmerce and that
1.coc, coo tons would probably e mare tham doutle mar cavual needs Hovever, in
Mareh 194o. r Clitrord Smke ed  tr Ascastaat Secretery of Wer a
repot proposng      toge to co, co tons.
thas drewme steene preeat P  vorous aers or the earth who were
pactisipents of the Wer il
er mement of all the world
the Draper Prar as sope   P so  aves somendetlou for restoring
Jepan's tonnege to te pewes eve  4 ve co tor Weedless o say, thas
is Leraly e prop
y. t formmlevion or mhlch will
toke nto sceoutt e mut s? porer soterest or the Allies, partleulsrly
Caana wice camnot be c rt co he vorritis surferimee sund devastetions
 durte the w      the Americen Government
and people forget Feer har cour
The Chinese mstaol. tns eese loyine and magnanimous, hes no
inalination towands revenge  e nut intend to icwer the standard of
living of the Japauese petple In tue interest of persenent world peace,
hovever, we beg leave to put forard the followins concrete proposals:-
(1) To maintsin the spi it of the Potsdam Declaration by
restristing the Japanese merchant fleet to one million tons.
/(2)

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.93)
(2) The ectivities of Japenese ships shall be restricted to her
coastel trede excluding theu from overseas commerce whioh will
be solely underteken by the Allied Powers.
(3) The surplus tonnage and shipburlding equipmeats shall be
apportioned among the Allies as reparations; the. Chimese claim
for helf mullion ters ef Japamese ships should be approved
forthwith. It is so te noted that not a single ton hes so fer
been handed cver to China
(4) The  onemis secovery  me Allies is deened more important than
Japanese recovery, the Chinese eripping, now only 1, 200, 000 tons,
falls far short of her normel reuirements. China, therefore, has
good reason to clair the assisvance and co-operation of the United
Statea in her pregram of recenstruction
(5) Early convccation of Peace Cearerence with Japan for the reasonable
settlement of varlous outstanding preblems such as reparations,
Japen's mdustr.nl requirements end her merchant marine restrictions.
In the latter cese we are aefinitely opposed to the "Strike" and
"Draper" plans.
The Chinese shipptng presentetivea as asseubled here are resolved
to exert themselves in the promotaon of thear shipring industry with the
assistance of fxiendly nations in oraer that the etandard of living of the
Chinese pecple may be improves ald thet Chinese ecozomic reconstruction may
be accomplished. China, belme her elly in war, has mey interests in
commen with the United States The trsgis errer of the British foreign
policy vis-a vis Gervany fello ing the World War I is a stern lesson to
the present poli y-makexs Th- Menoirs of Coriell Hull hes already brought
into light the Justakes conmittei by the United States in underestimating
the strength of Jerau We. therefore, in all sincerity and truth, endorse
and suppert your provena  as uss she pestoatiou of Japanese merchant
marine, be sed as it is on the deep and clear understanding of the question
at issue. There cen he no doubs to t the Chinese and Americen peoples
engaged an shapp ng asiress will in thelr vredivionel cordielity and
culturel cnter relatlorshaps coopesate to flcat for the preservation of
justice end poace, for the weirare ef tue tre countries, end for the
preventiou of future dangers  esression
Yours ruy
(Doo Yuec sen)
Chairman, National Association
of Chinese Shipowners.
(M Chaen)
Directer, Standing Commaittee.
Rational Associetlon of Chinese Shipowmers.
(01iver 21)
Director, Stendine Coumuttee,
Naticnal Assosiation of Chihese Shipowners.
(E F. Yang)
Director Standing Committee.
Net ionel Association of Chinese Shipowners.
(Wer Wen-hen)
Director, Stending Committee,
National Association of Chinese Shipowmers.
(Heu Un-tsen)
Director, Stending Comnttee,
Netional Association of Chinese Shipowmers

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politicar uviser
Dek
for Japen
Tokyo, November 9, 1948.
6N oF
No. 718
MORTHEIST ASIAN AFFAIRS
RESTRICTED
OV 231948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
Forwarding Press Release Regarding Repairs to
Japanese Merchant Marine Vessels.
894.857
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward a
copy of & press release by the Public Information Office, Far
East Command, dated October 28, 1948, headlined "ScAP Reports
Progress in Repair of Merchant Marine".
89
The high repair ratio for Japanese merchant ships (25 to
30 per cent of the fleet being under repair at any one time, as
compared with a pre-war average of 10 per cent) is explained in
8
ACTION
the release as being caused by the age and poor condition of the
5
FE
ships, together with the lack of personal supervision by owners,
inexperience of crews, and shorteges of materials and power.
COT TES
TO.C
TPC
As noted in the enclosed press release, a committee compris-
ing ScAP and Japanese officialε has been organized to study means
6
ITP
of reducing the repair ratio. A ratio of 15 per cent, with
48
CFD
vessel utilization of 102 months annually, is reportedly the goal.
pos
Problems reg:rding repairs to be undertaken by the Japanese
governnent before chenging from a bare-boat to a time-charter
basis are still under discussion between the Japanese Civilien
Merchant Marine Counittee and the shipowners.
In this connection it is now hoped that the transfer to a
time-charter operating basis, which was reported in this Mission's
Li
despatah No. 593 of September 9, 1948 as being plenned, will take
A
place on December 1.
Qu.
PM
89185
5N
16
Enclosure:
8768
Copy of GHQ, SCAP Press Release
dated October 28, 1948 on the
subject "SCAP Reports Progress
in Repair of Merchant Marine".
894.85/11
Original and. hectograph to Department
885
DOR NE Un
EGSeidensticker, Jr.mis
RESTRICTED
Dist.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 718
dated November 9, 1948 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Forwarding Press Release Regard-
ing Repair of Japanese Merchant
Marine".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
1330
28 October 1948
SCAP REPORTS PROGRESS IN REPAIR OF MERCHANT MARINE
SCAP transportation officials report that considerable pro-
gress has been made by the Japanese in the conversion and repair
of the Japanese Merchant Marine Fleet during the three years of
Occupation. Prospects for continued recovery have been bright-
ened by the return of vessels to private owners.
The achievements of the past three years are a major step
in the right direction, but there remain many problems still to
be resolved. The Japanese Merchant Marine today is made up of
a conglomeration of over-age vessels and vessels built during
the war, when numbers rather than quality counted. As a matter
of expediency vessels without propulsion have been utilized
under tow.
The Japanese Fleet which previous to the war had only 10
percent of the Merchant Fleet in a repair status at any one time,
an average which was high in comparison with that of other mari-
time nations, now averages between 25 and 30 percent of its fleet
under repair. Factors other then the physical condition of the
fleet, which have contributed to this high repair ratio, have
been lack of personal supervision by owners, inexperience of
crews, limited materials and power shortages.
The Japanese Government, with the assistance of SCAP trans-
portation officials, developed a program to solve the numerous
problems posed by the condition of the fleet. A Repair Commit-
tee was formed, comprising SCAP and Japanese officials, to con-
sider and make recommendations for a shipping and shipyard pro-
gram to reduce the ratio of operable merchant vessels under re-
pair at any one time. The present goal calls for repair ratio
of anproximately 15 percent of the commercial fleet and, if a-
chieved, will provide for vessel utilization of loz months
annually. The Committee is studying the means whereby the time
expended in intermediete docking end on annual inspections will
be reduced from the presently required one month period.
As another constructive step it has been proposed that ves-
sels which are to be returned to private owners be first placed
in an operable condition. After return of the vessels it is
anticipated that the owners, because of their great interest in
keeping vessels at sea, will do much to decrease the present
repair ratio.
Salvage has also played an important part in the rebuilding
of the Japanese Merchant Marine. Salvage operations have re-
refloated

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 718
November 9, 1948.
-2-
refloated a majority of the vessels sunk during the war. Two-
thirds of these have been returned to operation and those re-
meining are being repaired on an established schedule. Concom-
itantly with the salvage program. a major repairs program for
laid up vessels was undertaken and is nearing completion.
All programs of the Japanese Government, with respect to
the Merchent Marine, are aimed at one major objective-that of
developing a fleet capable of supporting the minimum require-
ments of the Japanese economy.
-0
RESTRICTED

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.85)
RAF
MG
file
See ml 
h
116

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
DcR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
November 12, 1948
DATE:
SUBJECT:
Mr. Greene
Mr. Smith
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Feary
Mr. Saugstad
Mr. Amrine
Mr. Bane
TC - Mr. Amrine
COPIES TO:
894.8
T - Mr. Norton
5
11403
Todoy Messrs. Greene, Jeary, Amrine, Smith and Saugstad
met ith Mr. Javid ane, oreign  ervice Officer to Tokyo, to
1248
hear whet inforration M. Bone had on shipb ilding and shipoing
xR
in Japan. Mr. Banc har leen in ettendance at the Most-Favored-
Naticn Conference in London ni is leaving tomorrow for Japan.
894.642
Mr. Bane outlined some o the problems and consideretions given
to the uestion by CiP and  in turn outlined to him the
items on mhich emaharis mi ht le laid or avoided in terms of
+R
assisting us in denling vith the situation here. It was sug-
gested in ealing with Japanese tonnege plans thot SchP should
694,0031
treot Jopanese tonmage in three separate categories: 1. coastal,
2. Asietic waters, ond 3. overseas. It was suggested that special
emphasis le put upon evelonment of the coast-wise trade in bulk
commod:ties in Japen and that any transfer of such carriage from
over-lurdened railrny cuuipment to coastel ships would be well
3376 reccived here where our constel tre e is in a precarious position.
By plocing emphacis on the cevelonment of coastwise trade attention
is diverted from the necessity of maintaining a new and extraordinary
amount of tonasge in oversens trade. It was suggested also that
any attet on the part of sCAp looking towards the chartering of
U.S. Government owned shins for use ly the Japanese would probably
receive scent consideretion in the Con ress and that emphasis on
the econon ic value o? vessels under Japanese operation would
5
prolnbly not receive much c nsideration in Congress.
NOV 3 0 1948
4M
FILED
C
RC/S:JEcaugstad:nja
S
B
2

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.85/11-1648
No. 967.
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL;
RESTRICTED.
Shanghai,China,November 16, 1948
XR 894.642
SUBJECT: JAPANESE LRCHNT MARINE.
The Consul General has the honor to refer to his
despaton No 946 of November 5, 1948 transmitting copy
of letter ritten by the tional ssociation of Chinese
Shipowners to the Hational Fe eration of American
Shipping, nd to the Ambass dor's despatch No. 456 of
November 3, 1948 on the sume subject. It is now
ascert: ined the National ssociation of Chinese Ship-
owners also sent  cepy of their letter to the Chinese
Minister for Poreign Aff irs t Manking.
The text of their letter to the Minister is given
Rec'd
bel:
Nov 19
No. Lien-1e73
ovember 3, 1948.
894.85
ACTION
TRC
Ms Breolleney
 (smh-chich)
Mintster for foreign otairs.
INFO
FR
Excellene::
DCR
FE
Tith rererence to whe linit tion of the tonnage of
ITP
nese rehant siping d to the efforts in obtaining
OFD
Jupanese inaeinity for losses of Chinese merchant ships,
0
this Federatien hs made seve i ppeals and is grateful
9.
L
to you for your Puvor ple cosiderubion.
848
OLI
MC
At present shipping circles in Breat Britain, the
United States of merica, nd othe countries are opposed
to the rebuildin of the  p nese shipping enterprises
very strongly
The Secona General Meeting of Members of
this Federation has resolved th't  letter be addressed
to the United States Shipping Union in support of its
protest ee inst the Draper plan
I have the honor to tr nsmit herewith for your
informaticn nd reference cne copy each of the Chinese
OV231948
Tu Yung
Chairman
Notional Pederaticn of Shipping
Trade Associations of the Republie of China
-SEAL OF TIE CHAIRMAN OF TIE NATIONAL FEDERATION OF
SHIPPING TRADE ASSOCIATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA-".
DEI & 1048
FTLFD
/Cont.
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
DEC S
Enclosure: Nil.
A.C.Fleming/cgg.
To the Department in parclment mat.
Copy to American Embassy, Nanking
RESTRICTED.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.93)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosro No. 4 to Despatah
No. 593 dated Saptamber 9,
1948 from the Office of the
Politieal Adviser for Japan,
Tolgo, on the mubject, "Ro-
sumption of Responsibility by
Japanese Shipownera to Crew,
Supply, Repair and Maintain
Privately)Oaned Herchant
Vessels".

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SPECSAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
RY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
EAS
194914A49449
CSCAD O14 Japan
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS.
SUBJECT: \Japanese Merchant Marine
inclosed herewith for your information are the comments on the
letter which have been furnished by the SCAP.
FOR THE CHIEF, CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION:
2 Incls.
G. P. LYNCH
1. Ltr from TAG
Colonel, GSC
to SCAP dtd
Executive
20 Oct 48,
Civil Affairs Division
w/incls(copy)
2. Photostate copy
of ltr from Mr.
Bailey to Mr. Draper,
dtd 22 Sept 1948.
RM/R
Anal
Rev
Cat
4974

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
Office of the Adjutant General
Washington 25, D. C.
S: 22 November 48
AGAO-C 091.3 Japan
(1 Oct 48) CSCAD
20 October 1948
SUBJECT: Japanese Merchent Marine
TO:
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
APO 500, c/o Postmaster
San Francisco, California
The Secretacy of the Army has directed me to re uest that you
furnish by cirmail a comaentary and critique on the statement of
Frazer A. Bailev, President, National Federation of American
bhinpinr, Inc., on the subject of the Jatanese merchant marine.
A conv of r. Bailey'a sta cment, dated 22 Sentember 1948, is
inclosed.
/s/ H. B. LEWIS
1 Incl
H. B. LE.IS
Sto ement, dta 22 Sep 48,
Major Generel
of Mr. B.iley (copy)
Acting The Ad jutent General
1-114
COPY
AIR RAIL
4994

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.91)
a
AIR MAIL
Ltr, OAG, DA, AGAO-C O91.3 Japan (1 Oct 48) CSCAD, subj, Japanese
Merchant "arine, 20 Oct 48.
AG 017 (20 Oct 48) CTS-
1st Ind
GENFRAL HEADCUARTHRS, SUPR ME COHMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500, 18 December 1948
TO: The Adjutant General, Denartment of the Army, Vashington 25, D.C.
1. Inelosure 1, letter or 22 Seotember 194a from Mr. Frazer A.
Bailev, President, National Fedecation of merican Shioving, Inc.,
addrenaed to the Assintant secretacy of the Army, subject, "Japan's
erchant macine", sum arizes the Japanese merchant marine's past and
anticin tes it possible future position el tive to world trade as
viewed by the American shinrin industry.
2. ir. Biley's cumation is premised on the assumptions that:
a. utnority hs been or ill be Hiven to build a Japanese
merchant fleet of ap roxi ately four million gross tons.
b. The Jacanese merchant fleet will be permitled to engage to
FW 894,85/1
a substantiul dearee in orld trade.
c. "a" ur "b" above will renet to the detriment of United
Styter ship iny, hence to United Ste ten military defense.
3. Pureuant to re uert contuined in basic communieation, attached
hereto as imulocure 2 is a brief of the Mational Federntion cacer, with
oertinent comvente.
a. It choule be noted thst the United St tes merchant Marine
alone mill net benefit fron estrictions on Janan's field of maritime
enleavor, te t any benefit resultiny from such cestrietion will be
1-114
distributet smenrmt all competins ariti a stions.
b. In ro to the armr tion ta t a 4 millien ton fleet has
bean deet let uoon, it pon be st tes t t  tl, the subjeet is under study,
no puch decieion bae been made.
c. Phe eoeeme Com n er Por e lliet Powers has no knowledge
of a nolie to   teblspnee to ulti   e tr de in hice Japanese
verer ill be arit so cn .
d. Finee neither of there weeisions e be n made and both are under
ta'y,a iscuion  t trin time a to the results woul be conjectural.
POR P   CONR:
2 Incls
/s/ R. m. LEVY
1. Ltr fr MA8, 22 Seo 48
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD
2. Brief of and comients on Inel 1
Adjutent General
4994
C O P Y

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
Brief of and Commentary on
National Federation of American Shipoing Letter of
22 Sep 1948 Addressed to Ass't Secretary of Army Draper
Paras 1 - 4 inclusive. U.S. steamship owmers are concerned
with postwar policy on Japanese shipoing, and desire to present the
views of U.S. private owners for consideration by that agency,
(Dent of Army, SCAP, FEC, or other) which will determine final policy.
Comment. None
Par 5. U.S. ship o ners are mindful of the difficulty of restoring
Japanese economy to reasonable stability but are firm in maintaining
that effects on U.s. national economy of efforts to restore.Japanese
economy mu t be consiered.
Comment. None.
Pars 6 - 7. U. S. has never attained the eminence in the shipping
world comparable to U.S. zeogra hic and economic status. Congress has
specified
as a na tional poliey thet U.s. Merchant marine should carry
domestic waterborne cargo, a substantial portion of foreign commerce, and
b capable of servin as a novel ana military auxiliary in time of war or
national emergency.
Comment. The restriction on American ship ing in foreign commerce
has been imposed by the inability to compete on a cost basis, and to
restrictions imposed by other governnents.
894.8
Pars 3 - 9. In implementation of this policy, U.S. ship owners
envision a U.. merchant fleet to carr all coastal, intercoastal, and
territorial commerce, and at least one-half imports and exports. Backing
this cargo fleet should be a fleet of modern passenger vessels providing
transportation and communication between U.S. and important world centers.
Comment. Concur as far as coastwise and intercoastal shipoing is
concerned. Reference to territorial commerce is not clear. This could
include Alaska, Porto Rico, T. H., or wider scope including islands such
as Pacific islands.
Par 10. Prior to "orld War II, U. S. vescels were carrying less than
30 percent of our onn imports and exports. Durin typical period of
1930-34 Japan was carrying 65% of far-seas exports and imports, 92% of near-
seas, and 100% of domestic comnerce.
Comment. U.S. like Japan was carryin 100% of its domestic commerce
(coastwise and intercoastal), and on the balance of the seaborne trade,
each country competed on the basis of its ability to furnish sercice at an
acceptable price within the limits imoosed by interested governnents.
COPY

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
Par ll. Acknowledges difficulties of restoring stable and
reasonable economy in Japan, but suggests consideration whether U.S. may
with equity and ju tice elevate Japanese living standards above those of
our former allies.
Comment. U. S. has undertaken to establish in Japan a stable self-
upporting government. The comparison of Japan to any other oriental people
is not part of the discussion.
Pars 12 - 13. a. There is a misconception regarding historic
earnings of the Japanese fleet. In 1937, the ratio of net ship ing
receipts to exnorts was 4.7% while ratio of net income from shipuing to
total Japanese national income was 0.7%
b. Ihese figures are so low that U.S. shipowners feel that
raising general productivity of Japanese industry is a more feasible approach
to balancing the budget than xploitation of shipoing capabilities.
Comments. a. First, "net shioping receipts" is not the best
measure of contribution of Japanese shipoin. In an economy deficient in
raw materials, surfeit with labor, and with adequate power, the prime re-
quisite is for foreign exchange to buy raw materials. The importance of
Japanese shipping to the economy can then be measured simply in terms of
combined savinrs and earning in foreign exchange. A Department of Commerce
study ("Japan Trade Studlies. The Shipoing Industry of Japan" prepared
for the Enemy Branch, Foreign Economy Administration, by J. D. Travis, U.S.
Tariff, Commission dated July 1945) indicates thst in 1934, if the Japanese
merchant fleet had not been permitted to engage in foreign trade, Japan
Would have been required to balance her import-export program additional
foreign exchange amounting to 5% of the value of the import-export progran.
Since the import and export prograns are of about equal value, that means
that without a merchant fleet plying in far-eas trade, Japan would have been
10% short of foreign exchange required to support the import progran.
b. With respect to increasing overall national productivity 0.7%
in order to balance the budget, it is to be noted again that the require-
ment is not for increase in national productivity, but for increase in foreign
exchange. Any reduction in potential earnings from shipping, or increased
recuirement for foreign exchange to pay for Japanese goods moved in ships
other than Japanese, must be balanced by increased sale abroad of other
Japanese goods or services -- for example, the sale of textiles. It would
probably be difficult to find any means of increasing Japanese foreign ex-
change that will not impinge on some trades. Restricting shipping merely
throws the pressure on some other interest.
Pars 14 - 16 inclusive. Discuss balance of earnings fron Japanese
shipping and Japanese methods of comoutation thereof. The Japanese method
of valuing imports C.I.F. and exports F.A.S. is criticized as over-stating
any trade deficit by an amount ecual to total transportation charges on
imports.
2

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
Comment. None
Pars 17 - 18. Outline broadly the steps taken by Japan to subsidize
shipoing and shipbuilding from 1870 to the outbreak of World War II.
Comment. None
Par 19. Based on Japanese Economic Rehabilitation Plan, trade
deficit in 1952 is only 1l million dollars.
Comment. This figure is questionable as the above plan was
prepared by the Japanese with such haste that it is not acceptable to the
various agencies of their on governnent. A new study is presently being
made.
Par 20. Figures are quoted to show that present caloric intake
compares favorably with prewar figures.
Comment. This statement has little pertinent value when
consideration is given to the fact thst the Japanese economy is heavily
subsidiged by the U.S. and there is no desire or intent on the part of
the U.S. to maintain this subsidy indefinitely.
Pars 21 - 24. Review Japanese history and conclude that in view of
the Japanese new form of government and the establishment of new concepts
of human rights and liberty, the future is indefinite and the use of past
milestones to measure theoretically future progress would be a rash policy.
Cautious procedures are urged.
Comment. Although definite final form of government can not be
stated, the decision to establish a stabilized economy in Japan should not
be further delayed.
Pars 25 - 27. Outline the cuestionable value of extrapolating existing
inadequate dat into a future economic pattern, and suggest that Japanese
Merchant marine policy should be integrated with industrial development as
it occurs, with due consideration for national and international complications.
Comment. There is justification for the est blishment of a
Japanese Merchant Marine commensurate with the known need for earnings
resulting from foreign commerce.
Par 28. Since Japanese production of surpluses for export is below
the 1930-34 level, it is apparent thet a fleet smaller than the 1930-34
fleet of 4,000,000 gross tons is adequate for present conditions.
Comment. The implication that the size of the fleet should be tied
to surplus is an effort to impose irrelevant limitations and can not be
admitted. The size of the fleet should be based on Japanese economic need.
3

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
Par 29. Because shipping is finite, there is a tendency to over-
simplify and accept exploitation of shipping as a ready remedy for economic
ills. Overlooked is the effect on our own national economy.
Comment. If the U.S. could hope to monopolize the field vacated
by Japanese shipping, severe restrictions on Japanese shipping might be an
acceptable U.S. colicy. Since many other nations must share the results
of such a program, the U.S. can not expect significant benefits from restric-
tions on Japanese shipping.
Par 30. U.S. ship owmers had never considered that Japanese ships
Would be allowed to engage in world trading except in short trade routes
to Korea, Formosa, Philippines, and immediate Asiatic mainland. Knowledge
that certain reports prepared for Department of the Army propose less
restrictive trading areas is of grave concern to U.S. shipowners.
Comment. Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers has no knowledge
of a policy that establishes the ultimate areas of trade in which Japanese
vesels will be permitted to engage.
Par 31. For reasons outlined above, U.S. shipowners request action
looking toward building & Japanese merchant fleet of 4,000,000 tons be
deferred until thece is better evidence that such action is in conformity
with U.S. national policy.
Comment. While there has been no definite policy decision limiting
the size or composition of Japan's post-war merchant fleet, it is essential
in the interest of Japanese economy to establish an interim policy which
will permit a phased shipring rehabilitation program and allow Japan to
engage in a controlled, limited, far-seas trade.
Par 32. Summa ry of reasons why an increase in Japanese shipning is
considered unsound.
1. Peace of the world will best ve served by restricting Japanese
shipoing to domestic Japanese trade areas and to service between Japan and
nearby continental and island areas.
Comment. Ther is no indication that the size of the Japanese
merchant fleet will have any appreciable effect upon world peace. Japan
does not now appear to be a major factor in present or near future world
conflicts. As indicated elsewhere, no decision has been reached concerning
areas of linitations of the Japanese fleet.
2. "That Japanese shipping net income as represented by its ratio
to net national income, plays a small part in the overall Japanese economy,
representing less than 1%. Therefore, it is not an effective means of
balancing Japanese finances or of raising living standards."
4

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
Comment. For Japan, the value of shipping must be rechoned
in terms of foreign exchange and not in terms of national income.
3. "Vie question the justification of raising Japanese partici-
pation in international shipping to a relatively higher level than is
enjoyed by the United States, particularly when such stimul&tion of
Japanese economic recovery must be at our expense."
Comment. The restricting of Japanese shipping will be at U.S.
expense, and the benefits therefrom, by and large, will be enjoyed by
other nations.
4. "Wie question whether it is fair and just, at our expense, to
improve the economic stebility and living standards of our recent enemy to
a point substantially superior to that of our recent allies in the same
geogrephic aree."
Comment. Japan should be given minimum reasonable living standards.
5. "Due to complete changes in government, physical conditions and
psychology, the past achievements and statistical records of Japan are not
reliable guides to the future production, overseas commerce and finances
of the naticn. No one can foresee the future of Japanese industry as related
to world trade. We sugee t it would be incautious to provide Japan at this
time with a merchant marine of a given capacity upon a purely conjectural
theory that certain tonnages in inports and exports wili develop. The
general and gradual improvement of a cross-secticn of Japanese industry
is a more logical aporoach and as had been showm will better provide the
means of meeting any financial deficit."
Comment. It is agreed th t specification of a fixed tonnage is
economically unsound. However, Japanese shipping should be permitted to
contribute its share to & stable economy.
While it is recognized any extrapolation is unsafe, neverthe-
less it is necessary that some decision be made to permit progress toward
stability.
6. "Japanese ship ing although built and operated by cheap labor
has not been required by its government to compete upon a free trade basis
in intern&tional commerce, but has been substantially subsidized. Japan
has not followed the principle set down by the U.S. in the Merchant Marine
Act of 1936 of making subsidy payments only in an amount which  ill offset
the low wages and operating costs of competing vessels thereby establishing
a condition of economic parity in competition."
Comment. What has occurred in the past when Japan was an
independent nation has no bearing on this discussion.
5

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 21, 1949.
No. 44
G DIVISION OF
1949 FEB 1
CONFIDENTIAL
NORTHEAST, ASIAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT
1949
OF STAVE
5
Subject: Imbalance between Movement of Freight Intra-Japan
by Rail and Water.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to rejer to
894.85/1
comments made in this Mission's despatch no. 655 of October 4,
1948 on the subject of "Japan's Need for an Overseas Merchant
Marine", regarding the present character of Japan's coastwise
shipping and the desirability of effecting an early return to
the pre-war practice of moving the majority of bulk cargoes
inter-island by water rather than by rail. In this connection,
extracts (unclassified) from a GHQ FEC Public Information Office
press release of January 1l, 1949, regarding statements on this
subject made by Mr. Edward B. Juliber, of the Civil Transportation
Section of this Headquarters, are enclosed.
4
6
Mr. Juliber stresses the need for a major revision of
Japanese freight rate schedules (particularly rail) and points
out that officially depressed freight rates have caused a serious
dislocation in the relationship. between freight haulage by rail
and by water. Whereas pre-war water freight rates were only about
60 per cent of comparable rail rates, Mr. Juliber states that
"today in some instances water costs to the shipper are more
than twice that of rail" and that this explains to a great extent
the overburdening of the railroads while marine shipping suffers
from short loading. This Mission understands that the disparity
is largely due to lighterage and handling charges at water
terminals rather than to excessive water freight rates. As is
indicated in the enclosure, neither marine nor rail freight rates
cover costs of operation.
The despatch cited above pointed out that bulk cargoes, such
as coal, ore, and lumber, which moved within Japan by water before
the war, and which by necessity had to be moved by rail as the
war progressed, are to a large extent still being carried by a
greatly overburdened rail system. This is largely for the reasons
indicated by Mr. Juliber in his press release.
DMR
During an informal conversation subsequent to the press
release, Mr. Juliber indicated to an officer of this Mission that
the Civil Transportation Section does not anticipate a major
increase
CONFIDENTIAL
 1949

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 44,
January 21, 1949.
-2-
increase in rail or water freight rates in the near future. It
is understood that the Economic and Scientific Section of this
Headquarters fears that if such rates are increased substantially
an upward adjustment of prices will be required and for that
reason prefers to hold freight rates down. On the other hand,
Mr. Juliber admits that the Japanese railways are carrying a
personnel overhead of two to three times the total number required
to operate the lines efficiently. (This problem, essentially
welfare in nature, is one that will also face Japanese industry
when effecting a reduction in operating costs at the time a
single rate of exchange for the Japanese yen is established).
This is not true, he states, in the case of coastwise shipping.
Inasmuch as the Civil Transportation Section does not foresee
a major increase in rail freight rates in the near future, this
Mission understands that that Section is considering the possibil-
ity of placing an embargo upon the movement of certain bulk items
by rail in order to correct the present imbalance existing between
freight haulage by rail and by water. If the imbalance is
corrected, Mr. Juliber has indicated to this Mission that he
believes that it will necessitate an increase in Japan's present
coastwise shipping tonnage.
This Mission considers Mr. Juliber's statements to be
pertinent, and believes that an early return to the pre-war
practice of moving the majority of bulk cargoes inter-island
by water is in the interest of Japan's domestic economy, although
necessitating thereby either an increase in rail and water freight
rates, or the application of an embargo to the movement of
specified bulk cargoes by rail, as well as an increase in Japan's
coastwise shipping.
Enclosure:
Extracts from Press Release,
dated January 11, 1949.
Original and hectograph to Department
541.01/543.1
DMBane:rab
of
criginal wal
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 44 dated
January 21, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, on the subject, ""Imbalance
between Movement of Freight Intra-
Japan by Rail and Water."
EXTRACTS FROM A GHQ FEC PUBLIC INFORMATION
OFFICE PRESS RELEASE OF JANUARY 11, 1949.
(COPY)
Since the start of the Occupation, Japan's railway system
has increased its line haulage nearly 50 percent, Juliber stated.
He estimated that 130 million tons of freight were hauled during
1948 as compared with 84 million tons moved in 1945. Rails move
the equivalent of the entire Japanese population every four or
five days, he noted and remarked that the Japanese today are
running fewer trains than any time during the past ten years.
Because freight rates today are not compatible with values
of commodities, a major revision of rate schedules is needed,
Juliber averred.
"Depressing of rates during the war caused a disparity in
relationship between rates and commodity prices. This disparity
has been aggravated by the inflationary period Japan has seen
during the past three years. Officially depressed rates as
contrasted with increased costs of operation of the transportation
plant has brought it close to bankruptcy and has ceused serious
dislocation in the relationship between rail and water. Where
formerly movement of freight by water cost the shipper approximate-
ly 60 percent of that of reil, today in some instances water
costs to the shipper are more than twice that of rail. This
condition explains to a great extent the overburdening of the
railroads while marine shipping suffers from short loading,"
Juliber said.
Ships built during the war at high cost must earn high
freight rates to bring adequate returns on the investment they
represent, according to Juliber.
"Marine freight rates today do not cover the cost of
operation," he said.
"Rail freight rates no longer bear any sound relationship to
commodity prices," said Juliber. Freight is moved at a loss. For
every l00 yen expended only 46 yen are received back in the form
of revenue."
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.94)
Reo
RESTRICTED
D-. Margolies
Jan. 25, 1949
O - H. W. Moseley
Policy Aspeets e Entry of Japanese Marohant Ships
into U. 3. Perts
Last Ostober är. Keyes approachod you with the preblem of the
Legal aspects of Japanose ships calling at U. S. ports, and a mmmormdm
was forwarded to the Aray which stated that although there were no legal
restrictions to such entry there were poliey considerations to be taken
into account before any decision was reached on this matter.
The Army now states in the attached memorandum that they, after
further exploration of this problem, have not found any polisy which
would preelude entry of Japanese vessels into our ports, and they would
like to have us inform them what these policies are.
As this is a subject on which they wish to brief Sesretary
Royall prior to his forthooming visit to Japan, the Aray has asked that
we reply to them by the close of business on 26 Jamuary. I wwuld appre-
ciate it if you would give me your viemm on this subject on an urgent
basis either by phone (ext. 2235) or in the form of a momorandum.
Attachment:
Copy memo 24 Jan 49 from
Col. G.P.Lynoh to Mr. Hulick
oc: ED - Mr. Owen
ILH - M. Sullivan
LE - Mr. Wallace
NA - tr. Allison
TRC/S - Mr. Saugstad
O:HWMoseley:cmc
RESTRICTED
6016

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
Special Staff, United States Army
Washington 25, D. C.
24 Jamuary 1949
MEMORAN DUM FOR MR. HULICK, EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO THE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR OCCUPIED AREAS
SUBJECT: Legal Aspects of "Ex-Enemy" Merchant Ships Calling at
United States Ports
1. Your reply of 25 October 1948 to our memorandum dated 18
August 1948 wdth respect to possible legal restrictions against
entry of Japanese merchant ships into United States ports stated
that although there were no legal restrictions to such entry, there
were policy considerations to be taken into account before any
decision was reached with regard to entry of Japanese ships. The
Department of the Army, in further exploration of this problem, has
not found any policy which would preclude entry of Japanese ships
into United States ports. If you agree that this tentative finding
of the Department of the Army is correct, please inform us. If
this tentative finding is incorrect, please inform us as to the
specific policies which preclude Japanese ships from entering
United States ports to discharge and take on passengers and cargo.
2. Receipt of your reply by the close of business on 26
January, if possible, would be greatly appreciated inasmmch as
this matter may be a subject of discussions by the Secretary of
the Army during his forthcoming visit to Japan.
FOR THE CHIEF, CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION:
s/s G. P. Lynch
G. P. LYNCH
Colonel, GSC
Executive
6016

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SPECIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
24 January 1949
 RM/R Central Fl
C
 EMO ANDU FORR. ULC, EUUIVE ASSISA IT TO HE ASSISTANT
SECRLTARY CI STATE TO. CCCUPL D A EAS
SusJLot: Le al Aspect of "Ex-Lnemy" erchant Ships Calling at
United States Forts.
1. Your reply of 25 Cctoter 1940 to our memorandun dated 18
August l 48 with resuect to possible legal restrictions against
entry of  punese merchunt ships into  nited States ports stated
that although there were no legal restricticns to such entry, there
vere ;clicy considerations to be laxen into sccount before ay
decision was reached with regard to entry of Ja rese ships. The
Department of the my, in further exploration of this problem, has
not found uny  olicy which would preclude entry of Japanese ships
h
into nited states ports. If you a ree that this tentative finding
of the Desartment of the Army is correct, please inform us. If
this tentative finuing is ineorrect, please inform us as to the
:peciiic pelicies ich preslude Japanese ships from entering
United states orts to dischar e and take on passengers and cargo.
".escipt of your recly by the closc or business on 26
January,  possible, woule be greatl appreciated inasnuch as
this matter may be a susjee, of discursions by the Secretary of
2
the Army urine his 'ortheoming visit te Japan.
44
CA  , DL A FARS DVSIO:
G. F. LYNCE
..
Colonel, GSC
15Y.
Executive
6016

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
Executive Officer, Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army
Offiee of Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas
Policy Aspects Regarding Entry of Japanese Merchant Ships
into United States Ports
Reference is made to your memorandum of 24 January 1949 in whi
you request that the Department of State advise your office if ther
are any policy matters which would preclude Japanese ships from
entering United States ports.
The rehabilitation of the Japanese economy is an important part
of our long-range policy, and the Japanese merchant marine was, and
will undoubtedly be, a significant factor in Japanese economie reviv
Implementation of this policy would imply eventual approval of the
entry of Japanese merchant ships into ports of the United States and
other nations. It is our feeling, however, that the time factor is of
primary importance and that such action can be contemplated at a
later date as our program of redevelopment of Japan unfolds, although
planning for such an eventuality should be undertaken now. n other
words, final approval of this action should be given as a part of
integrated overall planning and only after full public understanding
of the program to assure maximum support.
It is anticipated that the calling of Japanese merohant ships
at our ports in the immediate future would result in vigorous protests
on the part of U. S. interests. Any such action would be aggravated
by the present condition of unemployment that now exists with U. S.
seamen. The reaction of groups directly concerned should, however,
be considered in the light of the general public interest. Before
final approval on such action is taken, it is believed that there
should be consultation with labor and industry on this matter, as
well as a coordinated review of the problem by the interested agencies
of the U.S. Government and consultation with appropriate members of
the Congress and with other interested governments. A beginming
toward this coordination could be obtained by a referral of the
matter to the Interdepartmental Shipping Committee with the sug-
gestion that it consult with labor and industry.
152
H. V. Hulick
Executive Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary
N
lum
for Qccupied Areas
Ulearad in sabstonte with!
O:HWMoseley:fa
Reveres byClanton
Origined
1/26/49
(Mr.Saugstad)(Mr.Bishop) (Mr.Sullivan) (Mr. Owen)
TRC
NA
ILS
ED
(shis is fined draft)
Sam

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.81)
1DC/R
Yelow action
Action
Cofy
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No Dpt actin reuic
Copy
Oniguial to Semd
Rdc'a
P0b.24
es otical Adviser
0
1.1
1040.
DOR
TRO
pelttel sdplser Cor Sopon
OT.L
d enited sbetes
XR
895.4016.
8
6
the
int er-sceri
1:49
8
cac ers 
Gme 0
338000
DOr.
69
oren a vernmeat sheeld vak e
stope to coorr
nited siales Spo ial
pnee as be ay dee erpropéate
Eelsurs:
1. Cop or no  on
Tialsen "isel m Ceted
Fobruary 4, 10401
Copy of cieek shert to
De antou Jenuery
2046.
and six sub-onclosures,
oc: Department uf stato
290/543.1
RWAdans/bk
CONPED..ITLAL
action Cofry Rutuon to Dc/n weth
14/day Pasith a notationofactoni Sahen.
DMR

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.70)
(OOFY)
D 
Diploe tic eston
Tre binlo the ctioe rreneat  o mi ents to the
rn iaison in ann  t:e a o vi t td
Fetousrtere tas recenthy receved a  er of reperss to t.e
esfect t p ee sene  eerre sod in corean ports
and t pese vessels e   vree and in
carrrin oa ora porrs  
ifunited
stuees  ve been i ao
Theee ineie ror
 laero sot in nusd er
recent invcivo viol ence ro  vas
tur the reads
f  t  n o no
e reoo a ofg
na equt rent f anuaese ssei
L rtr de and
in crryinnlle ttes r 
ioe. s caanctio.
the o a. cuolood for
n
rore atin
Th sr w
w to oucta itiln 
rtne
ensure th.t uannese crews ar vs  o ace ler a sui
we ordery rea    x tn rean
ports.
enclosuree:
st ted.
Pot 0, retruary 4 1043.
To the
Korean Linison Mission,
Tokyu.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.90)
( COPY)
r. Yskraff 26-5029
Protcotion of Japanene Sonmen ne South
Koronn Forts
GTS
THnlomotic Baction
29 Jan 1949
l. Incloaure  iu Colftavry lettsr. cerial le9. subject:
Proteotion of Jenenene Seamen ir the Port of Pusan, Korae. dtd
18 Jan to Soap. The letter, with ite el urered roport, indinstes
the necesgity of obteinir Pron the South Larean Government un
eseurence thet Janannse vrssele sná revrs wil? be accorded safe
end orderly recention st Pusen. he Lev er is forwarded to you
for aotlon necoese to obtaln snie cseurance with respeot not
only to Pusan but aleo to eny South Eoyc w port here Japanese-
crewed vestels ray be recired to cal?.
2. The follgwine incloeuren. witu sreir mtcached remorts.
indicete the natnre of abuses tow cnrrens at Koreen ports. The
cereiatence of much abueer mey guicki: ieed to the adverae reaulte
described in incloaure l.
 Inglogure 2 COMaT7E Letser, sertal A537. subject:
Finnonduet  Koreenr gt the Port of Pnemt, Xoree. dte 18 Dac 48
to ScAP, with one iuclosure.
b. Inclosure 31 CoAV9 leter, seria) 226, subject:
Protectton of Jepanese Sermen in the Port of Pusnn, Koree, dta
21 Jan to SCAP. with one inclosure.
3 Mhen the Anmy wee resvongihle for the oneretion of
South oreen ports, an extemsive corremmondence hetween Crucs
and USAriX on the subject of ensuring the safety of apanese crews
end vessels at those ports resulted i tre ndontion of protootive
meamures whioh are desoribed in the following inclomres:
Inclosurs 41 XXIV Corps r dio TTC-1476 dtd 14 Deo
47 to CINCFÉ.
b. Inolosure 3: South Korpen Interim Government,
Bureau or Marine Transportation instructlons -umber 6. dtd 28 Nov
47.
c. Inmlrsure Gt South Korenn Interim Goverment,
Burean of arine 'ransportetion Irstructions Number 9. dtd 26 Deo
47, with pro-forme report to be submitted by the mester of every
Jananese-orewed vossel prior to deverting from e Korean port.
4. Inclosure

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.91)
2
4. Inclomures 4/6 indicate the "ction which the Sonth
Cont'd
Knroan Govemment misht now be wel? aivised to teke. However
past exmerience and  study of inolcsurea 1/3 indicate thet the
adontion of procedures is not cufficient to produce the neceesers
resulte. The procedurer ware larcely do ieed to fecilitate the
Army's surveillence over Foren Furctin riea et the porte. Since
Xoreen officiels alone ere row reaponeine for the receotion of
vessels, the South Korean Sovarmment rs be called wmon to enforce
proner conduct ou the pert of its servenf.
6 Inc1.
e/e

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.85)
( COPY)
COMADER VAL FORES. P ST
Tobyo, Jeoen
P59 CR59/P13
Seriell (
(12:0)
18.1949
From
0
 C     .
Subjeate
Froteton  marae eemen  she port of
Bretosure:
1or.  G . 70 ded 21 J
1949.
1.
On severel cccsstres tn ss vee. Goemender Revel
Forees, War Seat bos ropoceed so the Suoreme Commerder For tha
Allied Fowere. inatencrs os saiatle treutmens e? da eseae
Seemen in Korean porte et the bar Se of Koreao nattonsls. Epsent
of looting of shipe? eauipaent snn cargn have elso been renortet.
Thie migoonduet ooourred on aoe aar ge beth an orelen trede
end on militery miesions. Shive? meeter continuee to meke ree
ports of intimádetion aod nf urepoe ssing ané viol once even efter
the nort orovost marehele pet up protective eystems. Trom a
comparimon of these renorte it would sopear thet the pregeuce of
U. s. milivery person el is the only irenwance ereinst deprede-
tione. Enclosure (a) ts s reeent renett on conditions encountere
ed et Pueen.
2.
Of lete. Japanese ahip dirpetehes heve been indiert
ing thet U. S. militery foroee ere vit remine fron the port of
Pueen. Ttis port hendles  montr ly ereree of over 20.000 tone
of Coreirn trade cnal in Jenarese ehioas Ooresionally, Koreer
export cargoes are lorded nt tris port fr Jeoareso destinotione.
3.
In the event U. . forces p wit drave, some cone
orete arrengement for proteatien of the anenese crevn of these
vessels must be mnde. S ould the South Sorean Governmant indicate
that it cennot or will not srewne io more) resmonsibility to
protect the unarmed Jepanese crews ene their shins tron violence.
it in adviseble thet foreigr trsde csren bound for Pueen, Korea
be movad in other then Jenenese rennad crina, end that arrengements
he made

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.84)
be mede to post U. s. puerde on uhine prai rod on militory
mimmione. It is believed that feilure to co so mill denorelize
the Jamanese Merohent Marine and Jecnsr he Puture 
Japanese trade rolations wle Koree.
cc8
CG USAFIK

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.90)
( CCPY )
OMNO No. 3570
January 11, 1949.
To8
Administretor.
Nevel Shipoing Contro) ithr!ty
for Jeneneso erchant Lerine.
D  PUSAN
aroor ine a recent raport g bultted to ue by the taster of
Ima  eru. a drartio chenge ie tating place et the port of Puemm
in the wey of prateutine Jsrerese vesse'r and s eamen.
"Ae of Dec. 27, l048. the etiorel smy ceraed
to proteot Jannnese vesuels coninr to the port of
Pusan and ocnordi g)y ro  merde cre placed on board
for thet purooar.
Consoquently, ger ra? conditions in the port
sudcenly svang beck to worse.
There ore no mare reetrictlons of eny kind in
foroe for black mero ente to come on oarde nothing
nen ston them to do whetevar thev le we demmite our
every effort to stoy them.
Te were, however, eccused by the nrantine officers
of nermittirr the merchente to come on borrd before the
querantine mes completed, and he refused to quarentine
our ship. After we reno ted the metter to the Port
Director, the quarantine officer camn on borrd again and
commleted qurrantine or the conaition thet the pritten
apoloy by the biester he submitted wich wo did, now-
ing trat the frct wes ouite contrery to what wre steted
in the letter of fonmel anolory.
We are further civen to underatand thrt the farbor
Provost Harhal'n "eadgmerter ie to he dis ended in the
cenr future mhich mav lord to an irmresureable hardship
on tre Jamenese seamon.
Attitudes of the Knrean oustoms offioisls have elso
chansed inraneely. In extreme cese, one afficer, on di-
onvery of nermene lurch horee not lintnd o decloretion
panar, insirted thet it me apainnt the Curtom's regule-
tlon end dananded te Mae at to aumit them as muggling
oods. Otherwise, he oleimed, thet he would dotein all
the offiorre end would not allns the ship to ssil.
The Oustoms

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.86)
Tre Oustoms officer was in rtrte of intoxim
and demended interropetion of the shine officers
were called ir to a cabin one by one and kickad and
Fortunetely, an officer from the Provost Marahal's Ham
ouarter came or boerd en it was stopned. Four out of
sixteen officere received this outrage.
Without puords on boerd we anticinate a freat
increrse in nnees of rot ery".
The si rution is very preve for the fut re of Jemeneme shioning
celline et Korea. Your svecisl cnnri retion to eese this tense
situstion will be prertly eonrecisted.
lvema.
Teもor.
r. rs aritime Bureau.
at of reneportatior.
三. U.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.84)
( COPY )
COL "DOR NATAL FORCAS, PAR AST
Tokyo, Janan
Fi1e CF P18
0r1al:(4537)
(12:JD:Th)
Doce uer la, 1948
Fromt
Commrnder Hovel Yorees, Fer Sert.
To:
Sunreme Com ender for the Al led Povere.
Suh.ject!
Uieconduet or Kotar + the nort of
Pusen. Kore.
irferencel
(e)  C letter  nte 3 Decmber 1948.
Snolosure:
(A) Crmy of referencn (a).
1.
"nolosure (a) is fomvardm necrvith for informntion
and suoh antion es may be deeme? evoronriete.
.
Ui iof of st ff.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.78)
(CP)
C...C No. 324.
Jece ner 6. 1948.
tu: ad-inistr tor.
wil srinnin controt t rit
fur d mase.re nt arile.
o ouditins at Pus
e s o belo tr mat tiou oi t re ort su itood by the
esture of  o) n.. witrras viviors
of o    rs  s usd s su as s's.
1)()
y s io. crryin  ta.  a. t roee tro. urih, arraved
et ruaan t Da 2 Oct. ld  v s juverval. v me
fist tu  riur on Butu
se t en saiftsd so a zeni for  in ou t  sa e  and
vorfor ed lo di of venclsur  tns o unitions murim
te riu ru.. t.
rea ectively waile i vae itineI r to o o ut.
.e sdid fr ru fo   t 17   1.
In antictut on for poesislo i   dore n porto reaultiu
sro vi leucs ts sook plre  v r  to in ro  c utioeed
all cret a un bord bor re de rtur re Y o a for ruuu to be
axtrenel, precnutious in c vice vi vor x  in ss viurs tow rte
Foren neople.
uarintino   t rou n i. iute. fo r y shin's ontr into
tie nort of rusan wrila cuato s sfriccr. vme a ririo seure.. on board
ind sever i crou cn wec. .ound a pitin 1 serrc. to e nostessed vat
arall su s unnese len, ie s in  unted to  runt in t e cto
in ts ster's c bin. to tn  it  yors onltious urde.
In tce eanti e. 2 ati   rds r us ered unto  uin
by the  tal ondir e ofric.
I. sditoly ftar t ir arrival. t  r. ue..tet usricur' c.vin
as their livin, uirter, vric I cec inec s tieretoiors, enn offored,
instued,, bed c bin.
Thuir diecinlina wus utt.rl. cocr.nt.
nring their stay un unti: a suv.. it  e ob rv.d thit they vont
ns:ors togt er d alwlys rervected w... at oln bo ru to sarve t.em
additionl mosla ror suvurul visitore wu. the clal ud to ve tiwir
rel. tives ur frienae, w..icn f ct let to ke a.ust sulsidi:ry foud on
tourd

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.77)
- 2 -
board anic  ulr run srors.
The. coorced grev en to iv. tne r on1 ai ects une forcibly
borroved them. witnout t ltcutlon  urn.  turned uut to be
cunfiac tiou, not urru -1..
On the utnr h ne, at  t e 
in  iscovered that trey
oilfered venicle ort stor  ae.
tietdvruiovit in
virl us  s so is o let t e tur llered vrt. but I must
admit trt situ tos ware s eo  to cr t a oloie and
s tig tor sol i.
oii
stoie. 1 tried t. tr cd tie bi  ia to srcon
co istued ofr le  in ch e e i  et rooating dn the
s:iot ce rtre rus
f   v
stolen ne cs o nut   cover, se e o sur tteution only
on t  f n.ch it  .  in to o
cereh si
thie xind f delt tosk s   o  at tt reeated
violoncus revailins in uth oou nees t sed oric o to o to fnt.
leavine oe ind ideoa te nu or s ueraol for  vir ino ores
aeil to t et tfe in  f 
to cuntrol inu vort a iuistr tis.
in viev f t. r ct tat sni orren on to r dgro und
1 oortunt c ree sen   muaitins. it s urn sti ceaired to  ve
's joated or rd on ourd.
It may Du added tirit even h rbor aster, rus n, e ui t e upinion
to n've t e  ttur of t is a turs suttled betveeu u:rtics concerned
rit er t un to nua: t e c ne to to fore, wrien  ill irevitably
comnlicite the : tter all t e ore serl.us..
2)(00)
 e in. returuin fro lnc n on t vovae  e, entered the purt
of iusn at lo ll wov., in er to wio  ene ral crs t ere.
Im ediutely after arrivl,  noren r a bo rded  s.d.
Jeanite wational efense voros notifi tisn reg roing pronibition
of entry on board witrout per ieelon o tha u rds, t ey uenered in
accuintances of tneire on bord t 17  t  a o da. renuastine the
purser to gorve t  beerend totacco.
 there were no al ns o tneir le viu t e shin, we begm to nuid
iscivings und kont a smarp v tco un thoir cont cts on board.
At sidniht, these 4 porsons approgchod a ein's officer t .en in
a.x.rgo
∴

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.87)
- 3 -
chirge of tch on tne v niclee atovod on deck, nd vianed hie to 
them in taing uny the o rts of tne ve icice.
bolloving the above, y s ip si to it to keep warter wete
on duty on ect. for vitcn to t.e outalle uf te s dp w ile the dut
officer folloved t e susoicioue . on wherewer the: strolled around on
board, thereby sivin. a so coim ttentiu vo ts generl a.rgaoe to be
discm rged at ruecu.
In the cansl e, the  peruous trie to conx tnd oificer at une
ti a vad coercxd  1. at mother in n f ort to evane t e siarp e. es
of tno ofticor, o fr nkly tolo the tn't in case of ilfoumance a
rudio coutunt vo is bo i clintaly esl s isred vith the shore.
In accordance  itn a prob-bly preua uged sc ere, a potor-boet.
vic nd arrived in the evenig, ugi ume alon sice y ship at
O400 on t e next . orning and anothor  an bourded.
as tese o men baga to lulter o  rd tre anip, I doubled t
nwiber of officer un vtch to ve te vtiow tno b versona.
In tuo fuce of te strict uten, y seo ed to ve no fingers
to mut on noyt ine and tihe  eo rmee vius t e lat one who boarded
y snip out of tre rutor-bont left :y  d at bout Cogo on board t.a
oturbout.
Thou it s recogaiznd then t  did cot ke ay yting
fron y ship. l1 c zes containine senesI c rus wer found da nges
and th contente diminienad wcon  s i s mule fast to o.  rier,
rondy tor discharge.
Irie wis app:rently c so ot vilfor.
'a c e to y hin to cunduct inve i oiun no 1. all deck
officers vnc quirterpistere on duty or- cucetioved wile snip'a sere
and v rious quarters were inepected, but sno pilfered uods failed to
turu up.
 a i: left Pusnn on l dov.,  fter co pletion oi neceesar:
procedures for depurture.
Causce of t ds unpleagant inciuent s o to uo as foliove:-
1) Tnis pilferage sene e vas weli plcaned before-hand.
2) we were not in a position tu iusosct the clutnes end bugs
nut on the cwirds when they laft t  srip.
3) atch-ren wore alwaye intimidated and it is likely tat they
ware occasionally un ble to cundnct a trorougn watcn ut a
certain time, for foar of possibic physical injury that might
be sustained to tra.
4) Cur flat attitude rigut lead the Kureans to rovolt agalnst an
anip

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.88)
ship, whic:, in turu, migut result in an unhappy eventumliay
I. akiyaia,
wireotor.
Ganeril aritime uureuu.
.iniutry of Tnmsportution.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.83)
(O0FY)
O..  . P. .1 
CAF/F13
Tok'o, Janin
(12: Vo..sng)
(226)
 aary 21, 1949
Jrom:
Comannder aval orcee, r st.
20:
Sunreme Contandar for  lled rowurs.
subject:
Protection ot drruece  on in no port
of ugan, Koren.
deference:
(a) N xial. 189    l.
uncloaure;
() Cpy of dpn e ren lt.
aeriai   No. 3 1. 13 n .
2. In addition to corcitione rep:: sl in rerereuce (a),
onclosure (A) is forr:rdod berovith fo  Lor tlon, vud suca
nction as y be doe ed advisobic.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.89)
(COPY)
ONNO NO. 3611
18 Jamuiry 1949
2o: idiinistritor.
Maval Suioving Contrui muthority
for Janunose ierc:unt :rrine.
te: Condition at Pusnu.
Folloving le a liot of the repurt de uut by the aster of
SG ... (s0l1, whic. arrived nt usan on 8 Dec. 1948 for
coment disclarge, siling tnere-fro on la ec., currving on board
b.B.  y anrgoes cestinec for upu
1) Wnilet i y ship's stay ut rusin, diec arypiln, coreat, a
cortain rallway detective reruasted mo vo orry 2 Korean stovaimye
to Janan, whicn X declined.
a) On l4 Dec., Nr. Kim, c.def of .o inspection Section.
Customs oifice. together witi  ot ors nd an officil of tie
Harbor surean cane on board my enip, re uesting me to taka 6 korean
stowaiays desirous to go ovor to Japan, vitn te tireatening iurds
that, if not favombly answared, they vould not ive back to me
the siip's certificate of nationvlity.
I. "ovover, rorained adement and kept on rejeoting tneir
regusst while I ratorted thit I did not c,re for tie curtific::te
of matiomlity and I woulc rovort the c so to scut after sy roturn
to Sanan.
3) Customs officials, instend of boarding my siáp at l030
18 Dec.. as previously schoduled, for cuniuctin, sonrch bofore y
ship's doparture at láv0 on te anre di. came to e ahin on a temes
30 minutes before tie ti e of sailine, and vith korcel stovaways to
be sont to Junan!
I iwediately seut in a letter alrendy  ritten, randy for
such eargencies, to the lunds of te i.s. uutnuritios vho auugnt
the stowawye toget ar with : iging of t e said officinly.
fter ving obtlined the certifionte of matiuruility, I
sailed tho srin for :oji without any help of vilot and tug (w toh
the rbor Dureau did not dispatch for ; y snip).
/0/ T. kiyas
T. Aliyaa, liractor,
General liaritime ureau,
Ministr:, of Trmsnortation.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.87)
(OOPY)
G D   
 )  
LACO..LNG
CWH
rjs
:: CG V 3
14 Dec 47
TO : C105
NR : YTC 1476
Reurd 0 5721 (1001l/) 1  ia 6 prs.
Part l. answers lettera.ilod   pad l Jec respectively.
Fart 2. For our inomion ful  messures are in offect
at Fusan: as of lo Jet 47 coias urd rl ed block at mouth of North
and south tarbor. na of 20 ves Coast ua pluces pi nt patrol within
harbor area, payin, pecia! tsn to o  n:rt of orth larbor (ared
in weich attacks and robuerten ocaurrar us of  Dee sort cor ander
placed constabcler uards on np d m e sh durins entire sty
in Pusan.
Part B. inchoa  bzoot laul  cicnlly chocs shine and allow
no waut orized native crafs elva sice vs co ureg ted in ares. coasu
uard and mrbor Police are inotmicted to cneck vesseis and prutect from
trespassera. While dischargin: lu sirs voaor cirectica Ze .ed Port.
Aray Personnel wor ing abonrd i resou:  le for protection of c.rso.
crew and ehipe oroperty and aa an  rt loned aboard from end of cays
work until start of next days un. i in tical busin or bencned, a
guard (National Police or poree onstar  ry) is placed on duty at all
times to protect crey and ghips property.
Part 4. ne: nort is now requirin ns daplese slups prior so
departure, sive s report on any iucidents w..ich say vve occurred.
Segitive reports re resuired. This will ensblo port to wake prompt
investipition. In addltion. enen purt v. Conmissioned Officer avai able
to listen to Japazese complainin ind arc. amip ic to a informed uf sane.
Fart . nerican persoane) re vcin placed in sall outiying ports
as rapidly is tey necome awailable. et cisient of i vificer and 6
enlisted  en assigned port of usu fro i th . odius Port 2: dov. usrican
advisors statloned at Eunsnn, ukh) and blokpo. Tnase vive  een direoted
to place guards on vessels durin st in port and are roquired to outain
reports fros ships prior to deurture.
Part 6. It is believed by tnis Ho tivt the maasures outlined will
alirinnte to a large oxtent the co pi iuts tiat live urisen in the past.
NO SIG
A: NP
CONFLETIAN
85377
ROUTIAE
F0U: 140250 2
4CN: 67503
"raraphrase not reruired. Handle as CussstL correspondence
sor paragraph 51 1 and 60 a (4) Ax 360-."
8.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.87)
(COPY)
SOUT: KO CN NRI 
Dopartent of Tranaport tion
Burean of arine Tr n sportation
Souul. 
B.T INSTAUCTIONS NU. 6
33  47
SUBJECT:
Attacks and Roherioa Cou tad ugtinut Fersunuel on SCwlat
Vessels
ve are in receipt of a renort fr. t o to umcer of maval Noroes.
rar st co and which alloses unmr sed attcks und robberies aglinst
ScadAl crew ne berc while in Koreu ors.
Thsse attacis have occurred both on shore nd on sOwau' Veacels.
Goverment property and personal bol  lns of crey rembera aye wean
stolon by kore. angs.
Thoze atticks hive been vicluue r t air ature knd nave seriouely
iupairod tho mor le of tne Japneee il sonnel hor? trece vessels.
In order to orevent rurtner alt ks unu ruuberics, you  ro
requested to enlist t aid of t coas; urd and polico in n efort
to give protection to both sliwur Veascis ant creus.
FOR  VI
e .ado
Asst dviser
Dopt of Trans
DISTRIBUTION:
2 -- all rort Ropresent tives
1  Adviser
1 -- Director
1 -- Personnal
1 -- Administrition
5-- Fort Comiandor, Lusan
2 -- Truns. xxIV Corps
2 -- CID
2 -- Coast Guard

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.82)
(COPX)
 . .. . 
Denurtuent of Ir n portation
Hurenu ot arine irnspostation
dsoul, sorea
  . 8
16 Deco ber 47
StndzC: Vlolenco and Ii farage on J pa.susom anued Vessels in
Forts of korea
I. This wili confir: the foll  essu, o vent to cll sort
Roprosent tives And Yort Cour.nders:
"ofersnce  Instriations on 5 and é dted l6 a 28
overser lge, suject: lnstmuctions  uemee  rollove:
ffective inodiamely in is drectod  sster t on : in
nonned by  Japan se croy dey rtias y  mort be re red to slie
written report of auy ot ef vulanc  lfese tivt oceurs wns
his vessel ie in ort. in thu event; no st: ot violence or
pilfemgo have oceurred it is lirect te aster uf tne Vas
file  vritten renort to tht wifectls positiveiy tisit e
treatent nocordel iy vegsey vid cre bors wlil n port ns vu
satiafnctory in ever roamect. It iser directuc tht.
irs odinte report be rade to t.is red  ere by tho post expoditioun
reans of nay ncts of violonce or pilfg go renorted by any Jananeer
.aster. It is furtner dir ctod tht ke i: edite stans to
onlist tho sid of tie Cones cuard, co ss bulary, or olicu in
furntanine protection to ny ud roried  a Jupano crew witn the
objective uf pluciny a continwus sie i: ourd thess c ips wniie in
vort. und xo. simed. Lt Cot. . . vomelon. lavir. penr..ent
of Inmnenortation."
2. Attaonod for vill a uced for siw siub: ittal uf ronorts to
this. oatuarters concerairs he aboy.
[O Th1
/.
. 
ot lviser
Jeut of Trens
1 Inol:
Forr of Roport
DISTRIBUTION!
1 -dviser
1- iretor
7- ort Cor, 
2 - All Port .epresent:tives
1- ndaluistrition
2 - CID
2  Ttns scction. xy corps
1

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.83)
(COPY)
S   
Dopartnant uf Enanaportition
burwau of arine Trameportation
Sooul, Korea
PAS I
O OFV
1. icport of violenco, Pilferugo, or  istre want on board
Jananageianned Vessel (am
at Port of
on
Dat
3. Veasel entored rort at (Dnte-Time)
departed Port
at(DTin)
3. dane of rster
cargp.
tonnage
4. State extent of protectior fforded vonsel and orew as
directon by T Instrctiune o. 8.
5. Oive aorplete detiile of act of viulence, Pilferage or
: istre tnent on bourd fhe anove vosael.
6. 1.
 a Japanage ntional, Haster of
the Vessel ()
 sertify thmt tuo nct of viulence
(Pilferage) has bean cuir.itted on bonrd ry vesael es etted abuve.
(litness) Sigued
Port chuperintendent
Faster
DATE
n
PARR II
O OO 
I.
a Jamse ationl, aster of t
Vessel ()
oertify thut the trantrent
afferded myself, y vessal, and crew ae been entirely sntisfactory
while in the Port of
curing the period fron
(De)to()
(Nisness) SIGD
SIGNED
Port buperintendent
Hetes
DaPa
D
TH PA OF THIS U. LICAL SHAL  OPL AS MAY 2O
COAPLY WITH NT INSTHUCTIUNS NO. B. PART I OR PANT II (WHIOHEVEH USAD)
BEOULD BE XEOUTD IN AT LEAST THRE COPES: ONE TOR TH POLIC.
CONSTAILARY, OR COAST GUARD: O FOR URU UFHIN THOTTIO
SEOULI ND O OR YOUR FIL.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Lt. Col. Handrick, Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Arzy
Office of Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Arees
Requirement that Allied Representatives Accompany Japanese-Owned
Vossels
Reference is made to our telephone conversation on the subjeet,
with particular reference to the request of sCAP in his C-67493 of
31 Janmary that the previous requirement that Allied representatives
894.8
accompany Japanese-owned vessels be terminated.
The Department of State proposes that a roply to SCAP's C-67493
might be made along the following lines:
State Department is of the opinion that Allied repre-
a
sentatives may be removed fron Japanese-owned tankers and
2-949
dry cargo vessels participating in agreed trade arrangoments
provided that prior approval is obtained from the govermment
at whose ports the vessels will call; otherwise, possibility
exists vessels might be detained under various local regula-
tions or seised under claim. In this connection, Japanese
still enemy nationals from viewpoint former Allied countries.
It is pointed out, for example, that in case of oil
arrangement with Bahrein and Saudi Arabia, those countries
were advised that Allied representatives would be aboard the
Japanese tankers, and that approval from those countries of
new arrangement would therefore be required. It is presuned
that SCAP will obtain the necessary governmental clearances
unless U. S. Government assistance specifically requested.
CS/JEC
It is presumed vessels will continue to fly the SCaJAP
flag and to operate under close SCAP control.
Harold W. Moseley
Cleoves in Drofs with!
h
NE
L/E
NA
TRC/S
894.85
O:HWMoseley:fa
(Mr. Sanger) (Mr. Wallace) (Mr. Bond) (Mr. Saugstad)
FE
OFD
29
(Mr. Allison) (Mr. Barnett)
0-6386

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
February 9, 1969
MEMORANDUM FOR:
Captain Harry R. Hummer, USN
Rocm 4E-547, The Pentagon
SUBJECT:
Requirement that Allied Representatives
Accompany Japanese-Owned Vessels
Reference is made to our telephone conversation regard-
894.85/2-949
ing the request from COVNAVFE that the requirement for
Allied representatives to accompany Japanese-owned vessels
on trips to the Persian Gulf be canceled. In this conmeotion,
I am enclosing a copy of the memorandum which is being sent to
the Department of the Army and which I believe answers your
inquiry as far as the Department of State is concerned.
Harold W. Moseley
Office of the Assistant Secretary
CS/JEC
of State for Occupied Areas
Enclosure:
Memo to Army
894.85
re Subject.
2
COIFIDENTIAL
0-6386

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: Mr. Saltzman
DATE: March 1, 1949
Mr. Claxton
tile
sUBJECT: Restrictions on Japanese Shipbuilding and Shipping.
From a strictly legal standpoint there is no effective policy
restriction on SCAP's authority in using Japanese shipbuilding capacity
as he desires, nor is there any effective legal restriction on the size
of vessels which may be constructed.
From a moral standpoint, however, any decision to expand Japanese
shipping or shipbuilding capacity should take into account the intent
of the Far Eastern Commission to place restrictions on these industries.
But for the failure of the Far Eastern Commission to reach agreement
Central
DC/B
reparations and related problems, definite restrictions on shipbuilding
and the size of the Japanese merchant marine would undoubtedly be in
effect.
8
394.85/3-149
The following are the FEC approved policy decisions on this subje
which should be taken into account in considering any expansion of
Japanese shipping or shipbuilding capacity:
1. Policy on Interim Reparations Removals (FEC-O59/4),approved
by the FEC May 23, 1946,stated that there should be made available for
reparations removals under the interim program, that portion of Japan's
shipbuilding capacity which is in excess of that necessary to build
150,000 gross tons of merchant shipping annually and to repair a mer-
chant fleet aggregating 3,000,000 gross tons. This policy was quali-
fied by a statement to the effect that no facilities should be made
available for claim until such time as Japan's merchant fleet is
restored to a level which in the judgment of SCAP is sufficient to
meet the needs of the occupation. Implementation of this policy has
also been prevented by the failure of the FEC to agree on reparations
shares.
2. Policy Statement on Reduction of Japanese Industrial War
Potential (FEC-O84/21), approved August 18, 1947, provides for:
(a) A definition of plants and establishments building
merchant vessels above a size to be determined by the FEC as
"primary war facilities" which should not be reestablished
during the occupation and which should be made available for
claim as reparations.
(b) A definition of the steel merchant shipbuilding and
repair industry as a "war-supporting industry" and provides
that that portion which is in excess of that necessary to meet
Heo
the peaceful needs of the Japanese people, as defined by the c,
should be made available for removal as reparations.
19
52
CONFIDENTIAL
X 100171

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
are
(c) Similarly defined as a "war-supporting industry", the
merchant marine, fishing, whaling and cannery fleets, and pro-
vides for a similar definition to be made by the FEC with respect
to that excess which should be made available for reparations.
This FEC policy paper also provides that the capacity levels to be
decided upon by the FEC should constitute the permissible maxima in
the shipbuilding industry until the end of the present phase of the
occupation of Japan or until October 1, 1949, whichever is the earlier.
The FEC has not yet been able to reach agreement on any of the determina-
tions referred to in (a), (b), and (c), above.
However, there is pending before the FEC a policy proposal which
does attempt to define capacity and the permissible size of the merchant
marine, fishing, whaling and cannery fleets. This proposed policy
(FEC-297/10), dated November 2, 1948, provides for:
(a) A designation as primary war facilities those facilities
capable of building merchant vessels measuring more than 6,000 gross
tons and provides for the reparations removals of such facilities.
(b) Capacity in excess of the amounts specified below should
be made available for removal as reparations:
(1) Capacity required to service 3,000,000 gross
tons of Japanese and foreign shipping.
(2) Capacity required to build 150,000 gross tons
of new ships annually.
(c) Japanese merchant marine, fishing, whaling and cannery fleets,
should be reduced to an aggregate not exceeding 1,800,000 gross tons,
of which not more than 150,000 gross tons should be tankers and the
x
All enchs of more
surplus should be available for reparations.* Also, all vessels under
construction which are of a size greater than 6,0oo gross tons should
then 6000grt nd
be completed and made available for reparations.
15 msts dhaed be
mose avalte or
This proposed policy paper (FEC-297/10) is based in part upon the old
oratióne.
U. S. position that was set forth in SWnCC-236/43 which, of course, does
not represent present thinking. However, it should be noted that FEC-297/10
has been generally approved by Australia, India, The Netherlands, New
Zealand, the Philippines, and the United Kingdom. The U. S. position has
been reserved and our veto power could, of course, prevent this policy
from becoming effective. Nevertheless, this proposed policy paper repre-
sents the views of other countries which must be taken into consideration.
Of interest in this connection, there is the general policy statement
to be found in Article 11 of the Potodam Proclamation of June 26, 1945,
which states that "Japan is to be permitted to maintain such industries as
will sustain her economy and permit the exaction of just reparations in
kind, but not those which would enable her to re-arm for war".
O:HMoseley:fa
Cleared in substance with: OFD - Mr. Barnett
L/P - Mr. Snow
cc: TRC - Mr. Radius
O - Mr. Auchincloss CUNFIULNIIAL

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.93)
NA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
for comment
OFFICE OF
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FAR LASTERI AFFAIRS
MAR 1 5 1949
D/R
DIVISION OF
DIRECTOR
NORTHEAST ASIAN AREAIBS 15, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
rile
MAR 1 5 1949
FE - Mr. Butterworth:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Restrictions on Japanese Shipbuilding and Shipping.
9945/3-1449
The attached memorandum addressed to me by Mr. Moseley was
written at my request to summarize the present situation with
respect to existing or prospective limitations on Japanese ship-
building and shipping. As you know, this subject is one of the
major problems in the current tripartite consideration of
prohibited and restricted industries in Germany. Consequently,
it seemed to me important that at this time we should keep the
Files
Central
DC/R
Inis Documert Must Be Returned vo
Japanese and German situations in this regard continuously in
894.85/3-1549
view in order that our policies may be consistent in view of all
the circumstances.
Mr. Moseley's memorandum is a useful sumaary and I suggest
that you might find it worth while to provide copies of it
to Mr. Murphy and Mr. Radius because of their interest in the
matter.
Chs.
C. E. Saltzman
Attachment:
Memo. of March 1 from
Mr. Moseley to Mr. Saltzman
and FEC documents.
1/R
151952
FIDD H
15~
CESaltzman;hjh
3
C
(2
X.100173
U1

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.93)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
7
TOP SECRET
TO
: NA - Mr. Bishop:
DATE: April 15, 1949
TRC - Walter A. Radius
DIR
FROM:
File
SUBJECT:
My attention was called to NSC 13/2 by Major Leiding
of the Department of the Army in connection with some
questions he had regarding the implementation of the
economic recovery section (paragraph 15) as it related
to merchant shipping. Im very much concerned about
this problem, particularly in light of the agreement
that was reached on German shipping and shipbuilding.
I furthermore note that HsC 13/2 states that the recom-
mendations concerning the implementation of the policy
to "cut away existing obstacles to the revival of
Japanese foreign trade, with provision for merchant
shipping ... should be worked out between the state
and Army Departments after consultation with the other
interested Departnents and a encies of the Government.
Since the Maritine Commission and the Navy Department
This Document Rust Ro
894.85/4-1549
have a strong interest in this problem and have evidenced
concern over current developments in Japan, I would
apprecinte your keeping TRc fully informed on developments
so that we ay properly discharge the State Departmentis
interdepartmental responsibilities on this question.
X
Dr. Nickell of PRc/s has been siven responsibility for
following up on this matter and he will be working closely
with r. Amrine who is now detailed to Fé to handle
transport and communications matters for the area.
DIVISION OF
Att:
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR 1 5 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ce - PRo/s
x
JUL 1 5 1952
n
TOP SECRET
FILED
8
5
4w
X 100206
15

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
JMA
NWB
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
HFA
OFFICE. ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
DIVISION OF
IN REPLY REFER TO
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAG
4 May 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Honorable W. Walton Butterworth
Director, Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
The Department of the Army is of the opinion that as a matter
of considerable urgency the United States should determine its policy
with respect to Japanese shipping and shipbuilding.
Accordingly, an initial staff study on this subject has been
prepared which has already been informally discussed at an exploratory
Files
DC/B
This Document Must Be Returned To
meeting with representatives of your department. A copy of the study
is inclosed.
In order to arrive at an agreed State-Army position and to in-
corporate the same in a draft policy for possible submission to the
National Security Council, it is proposed that the Departments of
State and Army form an ad hoc group to complete work on the matter
before an appropriate deadline.
Sincerely yours,
lust
608+
ROBERT R. WEST
Deputy to
Assistant Secretary of the Army
1 Incl
As stated
S
5
CS/
FILED
U
151952
4w
工

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
JAPANESE MERCHANT MARINE
1. To determine the action which should be taken with respect
to reviving the Japanese merchant marine and opening foreign ports
consistent with (a) the accomplishment of the objectives as outlined in
the Potsdam Declaration, (b) the recent Economic Stabilization Directive,
and (c) NSC policy.
FACTS
2. The Potsdam Declaration of July 1945 which defined the terms of
Japan's surrender provided that Japan should be permitted:
(a) access to raw materials,
(b) that eventual Japanese participation in world trade re-
Fw8
lations should be permitted.
3. As a result of Japan's defeat in the war she was stripped of her
5
territorial possessions thereby losing the most important source of her
X
51
natural resources. The loss of these colonies has accelerated her need
51
for conversion of raw materials and home labor into finished exportable
goods. Japan at the present time is dependent for raw materials on:
f
(a) The four homeland islands which are poor in resources
and inadequate to meet the needs of her huge population,
(b) raw materials imported from the U.S. which in the final
analysis are paid for by the American tax payer because
of the postwar adverse Japanese balance,
(c) raw materials imported from other nations. Such imports
are excessive in cost because in many instances, the trans-
portation charges for shipping in foreign bottoms is
greater than the cost of the raw material.
4. Merchant Marine. The Potsdam agreement permitting Japan to have
SECRET

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
access to raw materials contains the inherent implication that Japan
shall be allowed the necessary ocean transportation to carry the raw
materials from foreign ports to the home islands. Since pre-war Japan
was a maritime nation, dependent largely for her existence on water
transportation and foreign trade, shipping occupied a vital position in
the following phases of Japanese economic life: (a) foreign trade, (b)
internal communications and transportation and (c) employment. Each of
D
these phases will be briefly discussed as follows:
(a) Foreign Trade. Available statistics show that in point of
value of Japanese trade, Japanese ships carried 74% of the export trade
and 63% of the import trade during the years 1930-34; and that during the
same period Japanese ships carried 64% of the total tonnage which entered
and left Japanese ports. In brief, Japanese ships carried 23,700,000 tons
or 65% of the total tonnage during the 1930-1934 period.
A major elenent in importance in Japan's foreign trade was the
income in foreign exchange which was derived from her carrying trade, e•g.,
Japanese ships making cargo hauls between India and South America. These
net shipping receipts made a significant contribution towards meeting
Japan's deficits in the commodity trade. According to the latest Blue Book,?
during the period 1930-34, net shipping receipts averaged approximately 119
million yen, a sum slightly in excess of the average deficit in commodity
trade of 1l3 million yen.
(b) Internal Communications and Transportation.
Ships in Japan are the major means of inter-insular com-
munications and transportation. Coastwise shipping provides important
SECREI

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
services in conjunction with the railway net system. In general, the
Japanese railroads specialized in passenger traffic. Coastwise shipping
carried the main portion of the heavy bulk cargo since the railroads are
not designed for handling vast quantities of freight over long hauls.
This can best be illustrated with respect to coal production in Kyushu
and Hokkaido, where, in order to c arry this coal to the principal con-
sumption centers during the 1930-34 period, shipping was utilized to
carry 43% or 14,500,000 tons of the nanual coal output. The estimated
overall tonnage carried between Japanese ports during the same period was
20,000,000 tons.
(c) Employment. With respect to employment both in the mer-
chant marine as well as shipbuilding, an estimated one million persons
and their families were dependent on the shipping industry for their
livlihood.
5. Because of the war, Japanese shipping was reduced from the 1941
peak of 6,329,000 tons to the present figure of approximately one and one-
quarter million tons--a tonnage equal to the total Japanese tonnage for
the year 1913. In the period 1930-34, Japan had a population of approxi-
mately 65 million and a merchant fleet of steel ships which had a ratio
of one gross ton for every sixteen persons in Japan. The estimated
Japanese population in 1953 will be approxinately 86 million persons,
yet the Japanese merchant marine has been reduced from the pre-war total
of three million gross tons to the present total of about one and one-
quarter million tons, a postwar ratio of one gross ton for every 68
persons.
6. The present carrying capacity of Japanese ships based on actual
1947 records show that the amount of tonnage carried between Japanese
SEGISH

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ports ranged from 850,000-950,000 tons monthly or an annual total of
11,400,000 tons probably less than half of Japan's requirements for
inter-island and eoastwise under conditions of a self-supporting Japanese
economy. Inter-island and coastwise shipping estimated at 20 million gross
tons per annum for 1930-34 period.
7. The present merchant marine fleet consists largely of substandard
ships built during the war and of pre-war vessels with an average age of
25 years. Many of these ships will be out of service within the next ten
years. It has been estimated that there are only eight Japanese vessels
capable of "far-seas" ocean voyages at the present time. Both of the
technical missions which were sent to Japan, the Overseas Consultants and
the Johnson Committee, recognized the vital importance of ship construction
to the Japanese economy and, therefore, recommended that the retention level
of ship building pacity should be increased.
8. At the present time there are no valid binding international
agreements which place definite limitations on Japanese shipbuilding
either for domestic or foreign account. A summary of the existent
policy decisions with respect to the level of shipbuilding industry to
be retained in Japan follows:
(a) FEC 059/4, 23 May 1946, "Interim Reparations Removals".
Shipbuilding stipulates that Japan's shipbuilding capacity (other than
naval ship yards) which is in excess of that necessary to build 150,000
gross tons of merchant shipping annually and to service and repair a
merchant fleet of 3 million gross tons should be made available for claim.
This is, however, limited by the provision that no facilities are to be
made available for claim until the Japanese merchant marine has been
-4-
SEGHE

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
1.
restored to a level which, in the judgment of SCAP, would meet occupation
needs.
(b) U.S. Proposal to FEC
The United States made a proposal to the FEC on 9 April 1947
that the size of the merchant vessels to be constructed in Japan for the
Japanese merchant marine should not exceed 3,o00 light displacement tons
(later amended to 6,000 gross tons).
(c) FEC Policy, 14 August 1947, "Reduction of Japanese Industrial
War Potential".
Primary war facilities which were designed to include"plants
and establishments building merchant vessels above the size to be deter-
mined by the FEC" Should be impounded and machinery and equipment made
available for reparations. This policy was transmitted to SCAP as JCS
Directive No. 87. This policy as yet does not limit Japanese ship build-
ingcapacity because the provision in the policy referring to the deter-
mination of size by the FEC has never been agreed upon.
(d) Recent State-Army Reparations Discussions
The latest conferences between State and Army with respect
to Japanese reparations do not mention the gross tonnage of ship build-
ing capacity which is to be retained in Japan.
9. At the present time, there are no FEC policies or international
agreements limiting the size, number or speed of ships to be constructed
in Japan for their domestic use or foreign account. It should be noted,
however, that such limitations are included in U.S. proposal of 9 April
1947 to the FEC which is still before the commission. Also earlier SWNCC
policy (not yet rescinded) would make Japanese ships larger than 6,000
gross tons having a speed in excess of 15 knots available for reparations
SECRET

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
(SWNCC 236/43 and 236/48). Although it is highly important that the
U.S. should withdraw its policy proposal to the FEC, there is no appar-
ent necessity for SANACC rescinding the early SWNCC policy decisions
since adoption by the NSC of a statement on reparations has the legal
effect of automatically nullifying these early SWNCC policies.
10. There is a present need to reduce that portion of the present
Japanese adverse balance of trade which is being expended for the trans-
portation charges on both exports and imports being carried in foreign
(non-Japanese) vessels. An estimated twenty percent or $150,226,000 of
the total 1947 import value of $526,130,000 was paid to foreign shipping
for transportation charges. According to information in the "Blue Book"
with respect to the 1949 outlook for shipping, it has been estimated that
"only about 5 percent of Japan's imports will be carried on Japanese bottoms—
largely because of political factors militating against the entry of Japanese
shipping in foreign ports in any significant volume." It may be anticipated
that objections will doubtless be raised similar to those which have been
encountered in the passage of ECA legislation with respect to the use of
foreign bottoms for shipments of goods purchased with appropriated funds.
However, the issue must be joined. An enlarged and active Japanese merchant
marine is vital to restoring Japan to a self-supporting basis. The only
remaining alternatives are the continuance of Japan on a dole (financed by the
American taxpayer) or relinquishment of Japan to internal disorder.
11. A vital factor affecting the entire Japanese shipping problem
is the return by SCAP of Japanese shipping now under its control to private
operators. The latest statistics from SCAP, as of 4 April 1949, show
that 63l eargo vessels which were under compulsory barboat charterage
SECRET

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRE
to the Japanese government were released to the owmers on 1 April
(information with respect to the number of vessels still under control
is being requested from SCAP by cable). By this action ship owners for
the first time since 1942 have been given the responsibility for manning,
operating, supplying and repairing their own ships. Unless there is a
definite objection from SCAP, the process of returning such shipping should
be accelerated and completed at the earliest practicable time.
DISCUSSION
12. Revival of erchant Marine.
Japan needs Japanese operated ships to carry both internal and
international trade, exports and imports as a means of earning foreign
exchange. These ships must be either built, purchased or chartered. The fol-
lowing paragraphs are discussions of the comparable situation with respect
to each of these sugested methods.
13. Although there are no binding policy restrictions on ship con-
structions for either domestic or foreign account, sharper opposition may
 be anticipated from (a) other FEC nations, particularly the British (who
have already indicated their disapproval of Japanese ship construction for
foreign account in their aide memoire of 9 June 1948 to this government),
(b) domestic shipbuilding, merchant marine and union labor interests who
have steadily expressed their opposition through Congressional legislation
toward any resurgence of Japanese maritime power. (Examples of such
special interest pressure on Congress is the 1948 law prohibiting the
sale, loan or charter of any war built vessels to foreign citizens,
thus preventing the Japanese from chartering Liberty vessels which are
now idle. Another example of the fears which special interest exert
SEGRET

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
on Congress is Public Law 472 passed in April 1948 which stipulates that at
Jeast fifty percent of ECA aid must be transported in U.S. bottoms.)
Especially illustrative of opposition by special interest within this country
is the letter recently received by Mr. Draper from Mr. Frazer Bailey, President
of the National Federation of American Shipping (an organization claiming
to represent two-thirds of all privately owned American flag ships.) In this
letter, Mr. Bailey has outlined the views of American steamship owners with
respect to U.S. policy toward the future of Japanese participation in inter-
national trade. (Since the letter contains many of the arguments generally
advanced by special interests, the letter with SCAP's pertinent comments are
attached herewith as Annex #1). An additional advantage resulting from
initiating a ship construction program for domestic use which should receive
strong emphasis is that such a program will serve as means of increasing
employment and utilizing the present supply of available skilled labor and
facilities.
14. In arriving at a decision on our national policy with respect
to ship construction in Japan, both for domestic and foreign account, it
will be necessary to strike a balance between our interest in favoring U.S.
shipbuilding and U.S. merchant marine operations and national defense
(maintaining a adequately trained merchant marine) on the one hand and
our interest in the attainment by Japan of a status of self-support on the
other hand (achievement of which will reduce the tax burden on the U.S.)
Considering the problem of Japan's domestic shipping requirements; first,
it is certain that an increase in Japanese shipbuilding to meet the needs
of internal transportation is an immediate necessity in an area in which
the Japanese are primarily concerned and in which foreign shipping
interests have no concern. Therefore, there could be no justifiable
SECRET

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
opposition to initiating forthwith a domestic ship construction pgram
which will raise shipping to a level which will be adequate to meet the
needs of inter-insular trade.
15. United States interests probably are neither interested in this
trade nor in a position to compete on a profitable basis with Japanese ship
operators. If Japan is not prohibited to revive her merchant marine and
operate it in world trade: (a) the U.S. merchant marine will carry Japan's
foreign trade at a price in excess of the cost for which the Japanese or
other foreign nations could carry the same tonnage. This will repre-
sent an economic loss and will be reflected in a continuing tax burden
on the American people. (In effect, a subsidy to the U.S. merchant marine
for which the Japanese "get the blame" for elements of the high cost of
U.S. occupation). (b) Japanese foreign trade, if offered on a competitive
basis will result in such trade being carried by nations other than U.S
or Japan, thus strengthening a foreign power without benefit to the
"defense" fitness of the United States merchant marine or the full
utilization of Japan's most ample resource-labor.
16. The epartments of Army and State, by virtue of the latest approved
U.S. policy toward Japan contained in NSC 13/2, have the strongest possible
position and authority to approach and secure approval of other governmental
agencies which may be opposed to any proposed revival of Japanese maritime
power (or to act without making such approach and without such approval).
NSC 13/2 "Recommendations with Respect to U.S. Policy toward Japan"
specifically stipulates in the paragraph on economic recovery the following,
"Economic recovery should be stressed as one of the primary objectives of
United States policy in Japan for the coming period. It should be sought
through a combination of United States aid program envisaging shipments
SECBE

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
2
and/or credits on a declining scale over a number of years, and by a
vigorous and concerted effort by all interested agencies and departments
of the United States Government to cut away existing obstacles to the
revival of Japanese foreign trade, with provision for Japanese merchant
marine shipping, and to facilitate restoration and development of Japan's
exports. In developing Japan's internal and external trade and industry,
private enterprise should be encouraged . . ." This policy statement approved
by the President grants to the Department of the Army the necessary auth-
ority to initiate immediate action for the acceleration in the enlargement
of the Japanese merchant marine and of its operations in international trade.
17. A factor which will have an adverse effect on the willingness of
Japanese entrepreneurs to invest in construction of ships for domestic
use is the ever-present possibility that such ships may be demanded as
reparations at the Peace Conference. It is understandable that Japanese
entrepreneurs will be extremely reluctant to invest their money in build-
ing ships which may be allocated for reparations. One suggested solution
to allay any hesitancy in this regard, would be a guarantee by the Japanese
government to private Japanese entrepreneurs that in the event their ships
are removed for reparations, that such investors will receive yen compen-
sation for their losses. It is expected that a single Japanese exchange
rate will soon be in effect. The Japanese entrepreneur, therefore, will
八
have a greater expectation that his original investment can be returned
to him in a relatively stabilized currency.
18. The possibility of securing legislation which will permit the
loaning of war-built Liberty vessels to Japan should be explored throughly
as a means of rapidly reviving the Japanese merchant marine. Such loans
10
SECRE

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
SEGRE
or charters are prohibited by law at the present time. Although informa
tion with respect to the exact number of such ships now idle is not avail-
able; it is believed that there is a substantial number which could be loaned
to Japan on a charter basis if that were legally permitted. Public Law 423,
80th Congress, 2nd Session prohibited the chartering of any warbuilt vessel
to any person who is not a citizen of the United States. This law which was
to expire on 1 March 1949 was extended until 30 June 1949 by Public Law 12
which was approved on 28 February 1949. Hearings before Congress will un-
doubtedly be held with a view toward additional extension of the law. If
possible, prior to any Congressional hearings, the Departments of Army and
State should meet with the Maritime Commission and secure their agreement
to an elimination of the provisions in the present law which prohibit
chartering of war-built wessels.
19. In view of latest U.S. policy on economic stabiligation and on
Japan, generally, and in view of the present situation in Japan, it ap-
parently is necessary to direct SCAP to arrange for maximum ship construction
for foreign account and for such construction for domestic account as can
be s cheduled under limitations of scarce supplies. Private Japanese in-
vestors should be encouraged to make investments in ship construction in
Japan for domestic account.
20. Entry of Japanese Ships into Foreign Ports. The United States
government should assist SCAP and the Japanese government in securing agree-
ments from other nations to allow Japanese ships to enter their ports and
should establish a precedent in this respect by allowing Japanese ships
to call at U.S. ports. Japan's rights with respect to foreign trade were
both recognized and guaranteed by the Potsdam Declaration which stated
-11-
SEGRE

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
that Japan was to be granted access to, but not control of, raw materials.
(It should be emphasized that for the right of the Japanese to use their
vessels to secure access to raw materials is viewed by the Dept of the Army
as inclusive of the right to carry cargo to such ports and to compete for
cargo with the merchant fleet of any other nation.) Since the use of Japanese
vessels to secure access to such raw materials was not prohibited by the
provisions of the Potsdam Agreement, any decision which would prohibit Japan
from engaging in foreign trade with her maritime fleet, could be considered
as contrary to the Agreement. As an aid to securing other nations' approval
of Japanese ships calling at their ports, the United States mhould permit
Japanese ships to enter our ports since we cannot plead for port privileges
for the Japanese in the ports of other nations if we do not permit such entry.
21. The matter of Japanese entry into U.S. ports has been under dis-
cussion between the Departments of Army and State for several months. In
reply to an inquiry by the Department of the Army to the Department of
State in January 1949, requesting their views with reference to any policy
matters which would preclude Japanese entry, the State Dept replied that
the final approval of such entry should not be given until the question had
been referred to the Interdepartmental Shipping Committee, followed by sub-
sequent coordination with labor, industry, and other interested agencies
of the government. It was felt by representatives of the Civil Affairs
Division, that this recommendation should not be accepted, insofar as it
concerns the Interdepartmental Shipping Committee. That Committee is
believed to have been revived at the insistence of a former Assistant
Secretary of the Department of State as a means of acquainting him of
-12-
SEGRET

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
certain shipping activities, e spe cially thosedhandled by the Maritime
Commission. Referral of this question to that commission would imply
that it has authority to deal with the problem. In view of the recently
approved NSC policy toward Japan, the Departments of State and Army
should advise SCAP that Japanese ships may call at U.S. ports to take on
and discharge cargoes and passengers. Every effort should be exerted to
secure the agreement of other departments and of U.S. private interest
that such an arrangement is appropriate and necessary.
22. SCAP's authorization of continuous operations of Japanese ships
in and out of U.S. ports should be contingent on the following: (a)
establishment of a single Japanese Exchange rate, (b) completion of the
return to private control of Japanese merchant shipping now held by SCAJAP
and (c) assurance by the Japanese government that no aid, either direct or
indirect, will be given shipping interests so as to constitute unfair com-
petition with shipping interests of other maritime nations.
fngde.
SECRET

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CONCLUSIONS
23. Japan probably will not be able to attain a status of self-
upport if denied the available means of increasing its shipping income!
to a maximum. To achieve the goal of maximum shipping income thers
must be a peaceful revival of the Japanese Merchant Marine and re-entry
by the Japanese in world trade on a competitive basis.
24. The United States should withdraw its proposals including
that of 9 April 1947 to the FEC which specified the size of the merchant /
vessels which should be removed as reparations. (The early SWNCC
policies need not be rescinded, since adoption by the NSC would serve
to nullify these early decisions.)
25. SCAP should continue his present policy of securing the
maximum number of contracts with foreign powers for the export of
ships constructed in Japan.
26. Ship construction for domestic account should be accelerated
and enlarged to include ships capable of operating on the "far seas"
(i.e. North and South America, Europe and Africa). SCAP should arrange
with the Japanese Government for the passage of legislation which will
serve to encourage entrepreneurs to invest in the construction of
merchant ships. Such investments should be safeguarded by guarantees
that in the event any ships produced by such construction are removed
as reparations that the owners will be compensated in yen for the actual
value of the ships if taken.
eliminate the present restrictions in Public Law 423 prohibiting charter-
ing of United States war built vessels to Japan.
SECRET

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
28. SCAP should be advised that, after establishment of the single
exchange rate, and after assurances have been received that Japanese
shipping will not engage in unfair competition with respect to other mari-
time nations, and the return of ships to private control, Japanese ships
should be permitted to call at United States ports to discharge and re
ceive cargo and passengers on a continuous basis as business demands
indicate.
29. The Department of State should assist SCAP in diplomatic dis
0k
cussions with other foreign nations toward securing agreement to the opera-
tion of Japanese ships in and out of their ports for general competitive
trade purposes.
RECOLMENDATION
30. That the Assistant Secretary of the Army take steps to establish
a State-Army working group to draft a policy on Japanese shipping and
shipbuilding which will cmbody the conclusions of this study for submission
to the ational Security Council.
SECRET

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
NATIONAL FIDERATION OF AMERICAN SHIPPING, INC.
1809 G Street, Northwest
COPY
Washington 6, D. C.
September 22, 1948
William H. Draper, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of the Army
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.
Subject: Japanese Merchant Marine
My dear Mr. Draper:
1. Referring to my letter of May 26; your response of June 1, and
to our subsequent conversation with respect to postwar plans of Japanese
merchant shipping.
2. As set forth in our letter of May 26, and as I stated to you at
the time of our meeting, American steamship owners are considerably con-
cerned about our national pelicy, and perhaps the matter of an inter-
national policy, respecting the future of Japanese shipping in the
international trades. You were kind enough to advise me that no definite
policy from a national standpoint had been decided upon, and you invited
expressions from American steamship owners represented by this Federation
concerning such a policy.
3. The purpose of this letter is to present such views as are
presently in the minds of the American steamship owmners we represent,
comprising about two-thirds of all privately owned American flag ships.
4. We understand there is no certainty at the moment as to where
the final decision will be reached, i.e., whether by the Department of
the Army; the Supreme Commander of Allied Powers; the Far Eastern Com-
mission; or some other American governmental or international tribunal.
S
We also underatnd that if some agency other than the Department of the
Army is to determine these questions you will advise us so that our repre-
sentations may be made before the determinative body.
5. In the first instance, may we say that the interests we repre-
sent are not unmindful of the task which confronts the United States and/or
the Allied Nations endeavoring to restore the Japanese national to a
level of reasonable living standards and of reasonable economic stabilityl
We are equally clear, however, that the effect of these efforts upon our
2
own national economy and upon those of the Allied Nations cannot be ignored.
6. As stated to you, American shipping interests have no ambition
to monopolize Pacific Ocean shipping. The United States has never attained
a maritime position commensurate with its geographic and economic status,
and as a leader in the United Nations Organization. No nation which has
failed to maintain its flag upon the seas has long retained a position of
influence and leadership in world affairs. History is replete with ex-
amples to the contrary.
ANNEX #1

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
7. The Congress of the United States in passing the Merchant Marine
Act of 1936 stated it to be a national policy that the United States shall
have a merchant marine to arry its domestic waterborne commerce, a sub-
stantial portion of its foreign commerce, and capable of serving as a
naval and military auxiliary in time of war or national emergenoy.
Comment -- Paras 6 - 7. The restriction on American shipping in
foreign commerce has been imposed by the inability to compete on a
cost basis, and to restrictions imposed by other governments.
8. In implementing this national policy we envision a merchant fleet
of modern combination and cargo vessels under the United States flag manned
by American officers and seamen, transporting all of our domestic coast-
wise and intercoastal and territory commerce and at least one-half of our
imports and exports, and backed by a fleet of modern passenger-carrying
vessels providing transportation and communication between the United States
and important world areas. This in effect is the target whidh is in the
minds of certain American shipping interests and we believe of a substantial
portion of the American public.
9. We submit that it is not an overambitious policy to envision such
an American merchant fleet. The carriage of one-half of our own commerce
is a goal which has not, however, been reached wince the early Colonial
days when our forebears exceeded this achievement by building and operating
the finest type of vessels the world had theretofore knowm.
Comment -- Paras 8 - 9. Concur as far as coastwise and inter-
coastal shipping is concerned. Reference to territorial commerce
is not clear. This could include Alaska, Porto Rico, T.H., or
wider scope including islands such as Pacific Islands.
10. During the period prior to World War II the American Merchant
Marine was transporting less than 30% of our own imports and exports.
During the typical period 1930-l934, which apparently has been selected
to measure the level of Japanese restoration, the Japanese merchant
marine was transporting 65% of its farseas exports and imports, 92% of
its nearseas and lo0% of its domestic commerce. While contemplating the
necessities of our-erstwhile enemies and with every humane and compassion-
ate feeling, it would seem to us paradoxical to elevate those who have
recently been restrained by supreme military effort and who were important
factors in disturbing the peace of the world to a position in world ship-
ping relatively superior to that enjoyed by our own American ships prior
to World War II, or in the foreseeable future.
Comment -- Para 10. U. S. like Japan was carrying l00% of its
domestic commerce (coastwise and intercoastal), and on the bal-
ance of the seaborne trade, each country competed on the basis
of its ability to furnish service at an acceptable price within the
limits imposed by interested governments.
11. We recognize your statement, Mr. Secretary, that strenuous
measures will be necessary to restore to Japan reasonable living and
economic standards. We suggest that it is not an easy accomplisiment
in other parts of the world. We suggest consideration as to whether we
may with equity and justice, and at our expense, elevate the living

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
standards of our recent enemies to a higher level than those of our
allies in the same area during the same conflict.
Comment -- Para ll. U. S. has undetaken to establish in Japan
a stable self-supporting govefnment. The comparison of Japan to
say any other oriental people is not part of the discussion.
12. There appears to be a misconcention regarding the historical
earnings of the Japanese merchant fleet. A Department of Commerce public-
ation shovms that in 1937 the ratio of Japan net shipping receipts to its
exports was 4.7%. This is to be compared with the ratio of 36.5% for
Norway; 24.1% for Greece; 13.4% for the United Kingdom; 9.% for the
Netherlands and 7.1% for Denmark. We use the year 1937 as the only record
available to us. We assume it to be representative.
13. More important, however, is the ratio of Japanese net income
from shipping to the total Japanese national income. The same source
shows that net shipping income represented less than 1% of the total
national income of Japan for the year l937. To be exact, the figure is
0.7%. This may be compared with the shipping income ratio to national
inccme of other martime nations as follows; Norway 1l.2%; Denmark 2.5%;
Natherlands 2.4%; United Kingdom 1.3%; and Sweden 1.1%. It is, therefore,
obvious that the item of net shipping income is not the proper approach
to balancing the budget or increasing the living standards in Japan. It
should be borne in mind that this result was obtained when Japan was
carrying approximately 65% of her farseas import and export commerce.
It would appear that a more feasible method would be to raise the general
productivity of Japanese industries and that only a very small increase
is necessary to accomplish the necessary result.
Comment -- Paras 12 - 13. a. First, "net shipping receipts"
is not the best measure of contribution r Japanese shipping.
In an economy deficient in raw materials, surfeit with labor, and
with adequate power, the prime requisite is for foreign ex-
change to buy raw materials. The importance of Japanese ship-
ping to the economy can then be measured simply in terms of combined
savings and earning in foreign exchange. A Department of Com-
merce study ("Japan Trade Studies. The Shipping Industry of
Japan" prepared for the Enemy Branch, Foreign Economy Admini-
stration, by J. D. Travis, U. S. Tariff, Commission dated July
1945) indicates that in 1934, if the Japanese merchant fleet
had not been permitted to engage in foreign trade, Japan would
have been required to balance her import-export program addi-
tional foreign exchange amounting to 5% of the value of the
import-export program. Since the import and export programs
are of about equal value, that means that without a merchant
fleet plying in farseas trade, Japan would have been l0% short
of foreign exchange required to support the import program.
b. With respect to increasing overall national productivity
0.7% in order to balance the budget, it is to be noted again
that the requirement is not for increase in national productiv-
ity, but for increase in foreign exchange. Any reduction in

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
in potential earnings from shipping, or increased requirement
for foreign exchange to pay for Japanese goods moved in ships
other than Japanese, must be balanced by increased sale abroad
of other Japanese goods or servides -- for example, the sale of
textiles. It would probably be difficult to find any means of
increasing Japanese foreign exchange that will not impinge on
some trades. Restricting shipping merely throws the pressure
on some other interest.
14. The balance of payments earnings from shipping as compiled by
the Japanese Department of Finance in the period 1930-1934 averaged 119.26
million yen per annum. This is the equivalent of 42.8l million dollars
per annum. Even this figure, as will be later shown, overstates the
balance of payments earnings because of the unusual and incorrect method
of reporting. Further it fails to take into account certain erpenditures
necessary to support shipping operations which must be made in foreign
currencies.
15. As an example: Japan is almost entirely devoid of domestic fuel
oil. When purchased in Japan by Japanese shipping, such expense has not
been adjusted against the net balance-of-payment earnings from shipping.
Obviously the expenses of acquiring such fuel oil abroad and importing it
into Japan for the use of Japenese ships should be deducted against the
balance of payments earnings from shipping.
16. In the past the Japanese have adopted a method of reporting
balance of payments under which imports are • valued CIF and exports are
valued FAS -- a procedure which distorts and overstates any balance of trade
deficit by an amount equal to the total transportation charges on imports.
This unucual procedure has resulted in errors by competent economists, in-
cluding some who have made surveys for the Army. For a more complete
study of what is termed the "chronic bias" in the Japanese balance of pay-
ments figures, we respectfully refer you to "The Industrialization of
Japan and Manchukuo, 1930-1940, by Schumpeter, Allen, Gordon and Penrose,
Pages 908 to 925.
17. The Japanese from the very beginning of their modern epoch
offered Japanese shipping something more than the opportunity to compete
in free trade with low cost labor. About sixteen years after Perry's
second bisit, the Mitsubishi Shipping Company was organized in 1870.
Government subsidies of 250,000 yen per annum were then granted. Addi-
tional government subsidies were granted other shipping companies as they
came into existence.
18. In 1896 the Japanese not only offered flat sum subsidies to
operators of foreign routes but also formalized into legislation a plan
for postal subventions and for shipbuilding subsidies in substantial
amounts. The postal subventions and the shipping subsidies were con-
tinued to World War II. The shipbuilding subsidies were discontinued
in 1918 but were again resumed in 1932. The Japanese also provided
indirect subsidies for their shipping by subsidizing their steel in-
dustry to the extent that it produced steel for ships, and be relieving
shipbuilding steel, shipbuilding tools, etc..from import duties. A
detailed explanation of these subsidies may be found on pages 3l9 to 351
- 4 -

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
of Shipping and Shipbuilding Subisidies published in 1932 by the U. S.
Department of Commerce.
191 The Japanese themselves do not estimate that they will need
any large income from shipping to balance their economy in "1952".
Their "Economic Rehabilitation Plan" has set exports of 1,646 million
dollars and imports of 1,657 million dollars as the goal for the year
"1952" even after the overstated method of valging imports CIF. Their
balance of trade doficit, although distorted by overstatement, is thus
only ll million dollars per annum, if their goals are reached.
Comment -- Para. 19. This fugure is questionable as the above plan.
was prepared by the Japanese with such haste that it is not acceptable
to the various agencies of their own government. A new study is pre-
sently being made.
20. Fearing the impression may prevail that the living standards
presently prevailing in Japan are more sub-standard than actually exists,
we feel it desirable to state a few high-light facts. The average daily
caloric intake in rural areas exceeded 2250 calories per day in November
1947, and about 5% less for the 1987 annual average, according to SCAP's
Summation of Non-Military Activities in Japan for May 1948. According
to the same source, the urban, areas average was 2oo0 calories per day
in the same month and averaged about 93% of that figure for the full year.
This is to be compared with an average daily caloric intake prewar of
approximately 2250 according to the calculations of the Japanese and 2000 for
1940 and l94l according to the calculations of the Medical Division of
the U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey. Our information is that the caloric
intake of Bizone Germany at the present time is between 2100 and 2300
calories per day and of France approximately 27o0 calories per day, ex-
clusive of alcoholic beverages. We consider this a most creditable show-
ing by the authorities in the occupation areas.
Comment -- Para. 20. This statement has little pertinent
value when consideration is given to the fact that the Japanese
economy is heavily subsidized by the U. S. and there is no de-
sire or intent on the part of the U. S. to maintain this sub-
sidy indefinitely.
21. The future position of Japan in world affairs and commerce
cannot be foreseen. Japanese authorities assure us that no one in
Japan expected the surrender to lead to a complete change in the form
of Government. They expected a constitutional monarchy. It must be
remembered that for more than 2o0 years prior to Commodore Perry's
visit in 1853 Japan's foreign commerce had been strongly banned and
the country had been living in a feudal state ruled over by the Tokugawa
Shogunate. The Emperor's authority was so far eclipsed that the first
American consul was ignorant of even the existence of such a personage
for two years after his arrival.
22. With the coming of Perry and the restoration of the Meiji
dynasty, Japan entered upon a new and entirely different phase of its
development. Inidividual loyalty was transferred from the feudal lords
- 5 -

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
to the emporer. The succeeding regine was under a type of monarchial
control, and in a substantial degree industrial development wad dominatedsā
by cartels or family group holdings, in which it is thought that the
monarchy held financial interest. Through all these periods the in-
dividual was completely subservient to the State. Personal freedom and
dignity were not part of the Japanese order.
23. We now come to a new epoch in Japan's history with: the establish-
ment of constitutional democratic goverment and the concept of human
rights and liberty. No one can foresee how the Japanese people will re-
act to their new environment. Past history and statistics of a completely
different governmental and economic system provide no reliable guide. It
would be a rech policy to use past milstones to measure future progress,
and to plot a completelytheoretical course under which Japanese agriculture,
industry and commerce would develop.
24. While the Japanese people must learn something of the meaning
of retribution, and measures must also be adopted to prevent their again
disturbing the peace of the world, every element of the American people
favor a humane and realistic course under which by industry and intelli-
gence they may regain a properly balanced position in world affairs with
reasonable living standards. All this must, however, be accomplished with
a full realization of its impact and effect upon our own financial and
economic affairs. Sound judgement would dictate a cautious procedure.
Comment -- Paras 21 - 24. Although definite final form of
governement cannot be stated, the decision to establish a stabil-
ized economy in Japan should not be further delayed.
25. To say in what industries and to what extent the new order in
Japan is most adaptable, and would be most successful, appears precarious.
Because the Japanese merchant marine of 1930-1934 consisted of about
four million gross tons, to now accept as sound policy a recommendation
advanced by certain survey authorities that a merchant marine of equal
size should forthwith be provided and completely ignores the historral
background and changed Japanese and world conditions, and goes far into
the field of simple conjecture.
26. We suggest that there is no reliable information to indicate
the size and volume of future Japanese exportable surpluses and that the
statistical records of past production of factory, mines and agriculture
furnish no reliable yardstick of the commodities and of the volume which
may be available in the future for shipment overseas. Nor is there any
dependable data as to what foreign markets are available if such pro-
duction can be accomplished. To arbitrarily set up a Japanese shipping
fleet of a given capacity with so little knowledge of the future in-
dustrial development of Japan would be an unwise course to pursue.
27. The merchant marine policy should rather be integrated with
the overall industrial development as it occurs, taking into account
the many national and international complications. When the Far Eastern
Commission on January 23, 1947, decided as a matter of policy that the
- 6 -

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
peaceful standard of living of the Japanese people should be set at
the level prevailing during the years 1930-1934, they specified that
acceptance of this policy should not be interpreted to mean acceptance
in advance of a specific level for any particular industry. There is
some justification in seledting these years as the statistical record
shows evidence that it was dust prior to extraordinary expenditures for
military purposes.
Comment -- Paras 25 - 27. There is justification for the
establishment of a Japanese Merchant Marine commensurate with the
known need for earnings resulting from foreign commerce.
28. Japanese industries which must largely furnish export sur-
pluses not only suffered by bombing and other war activities, but the
sources of raw material and fuel with which to feed these industries
have not been reestablished. Therefore if a fleet of four million gross
tons (1.7 million in farseas trading carrying 65% of Japanese imports
and exports) under conditions existing in 1930-1934 as sufficient to
meet Japan's waterborne transportation needs, it would appear obvious
that some lesser amount will suffice until Japanese export production
has been restored and overseas markets developed.
Comment -- Para. 28. The implication that the size of the
fleet should be tied to surplus is an effort to impose irretevant
limitations and cannot be admitted. The size of the fleet should
be based on Japanese economic need.
29. Perhaps because shipping is in an exposed position and its
activities are more visible, there is a tendency to resort to it as a
means of supplying anything which is lacking in the make-up of economic
problems. The effect upon our economy and the resulting effect upon our
merchant marine appears to have been overlooked. The occupational forces
in Japan who waited so long for United States merchant ships to bring
them supplies and transportation when they were driving the Japanese
from the territories which they had invaded, should be the first to
recognize the vital necessity of maintaining an adequate active merchant
marine fleet at all times.
30. It had not occurred to us until reading certain of the reports
prepared for the Department of the Army, and made available for public
information, that the Japanese merchant fleet of the future would be
allowed to engage to a substantial degree in world trading. We had
gained the impression that Japanese ships of the future would carry the
domestic commerce of those islands and be an important factor in the
short trades namely, between the homeland and Korea, Formosa, Philippines
and the immediate Asiatic mainland. We thought there would be very care-
ful restrictions against allowing Japanese tonnage in the long overseas
routes to the Western Hemisphere and European destinations,and perhaps
- 7 -

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
to some degree to S. E. Asia. The experiences of disturbing incidents
caused by Japanese activities in foreign areas seemed to us to support
logically such a view point.
Comment — Para 30. Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
has no knowledge of a policy that establishes the utlimate areas
of trade in which Japanese vessels will be permitted to engage.
31. For the reasons we have endeavored to present, American steam-
ship owners who are members of this Federation respectfully ask that
recommendations which have been made for the immediate rebuilding of the
Japanese merchant fleet to a level equal to that of 1930-1934, namely,
approximately four million gross tons, be deferred until there is better
evidence that such action would be in conformity with a sound national and
international policy.
Comment — Para 31. While there has been no definite policy
decision limiting the size of composition of Japan's post-war mer-
chant fleet, it is essential in the interest of Japanese economy to
establish an interim policy which will permit a phased shipping re-
habilitation program and allow Japan to engage in a controlled,
limited, far-seas trade.
32. Among the reasons why we believe such an increase in Japanese
shipping at this time would be unsound, are the following:
1. We suggest that the peace of the world would best be
served by a policy which restricts Japanese shipping primarily to the
domestic Japanese trades and to service between Japan and nearby con-
tinental and island areas.
Comment — Tere is no indication that the size of the
Japanese merchant fleet will have any appreciable effect upon
world peace. Japan does not now appear to be a major factor
in present or near future world conflicts. As indicated else-
where, no decision has been reached concerning areas of limita-
tions of the Japanese fleet.
2. That Japanese shipping net income as represented by its ratio
to net national income, plays a small part in the overall Japanese economy,
representing less than 1%. Therefore, it is not an effective means of balanc-
ing Japanese finances or of raising living standards.
Comment — For Japan, the value of shipping must be reckoned in
terms of foreign exchange and not in terms of national income.
3. We question the justification of raising Japanese partici-
pation in international shipping to a relatively higher level than is
enjoyed by the United States, particularly when such stimulation of Japanese
economic recovery must be at our expense.
Comment — The restricting of Japanese shipping will be at U.S.
expense, and the benefits therefrom, by and large, will be enjoyed by
-8-

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
other nations.
4. We question whether it is fair and just, at our expense, to
improve the economic stability and living standards of our recent enemy to
a point substantially superior to that of our recent allies in the 'same
geographic area.
Comment — Japan should be given minimum reasonable living standards.
5. Due to complete changes in government, physical conditions and
psychology, the past achievements and statistical records of Japan are not
reliable guides to the future production, overseas commerce and finances of
the nation. No one can foresee the future of Japanese industry as related
to world trade. We suggest it would be incautious to provide Japan at this
time with a merchant marine of a given capacity upon a purely conjectural
theory that certain tonnages in imports and exports will develop. The general
and gradual improvement of a cross-section of Japanese industry is a more
logical approach and as has been shown will better provide the means of
meeting any financial deficit.
Comment — It is agreed that specification of a fixed tonnage is
economically unsound. However, Japanese shipping should be permitted
to contribute its share to a stable economy.
While it is recognized any extrapolation is unsafe, nevertheless
it is necessary that some decision be made to permit progress toward
stability.
6. Japanese shipping although built and operated by cheap labor has
not been required by its government to compete upon a free trade basis in
international commerce, but has been substantially subsidized. Japan has
not followed the principle set down by the U.S. in the Merchant Marine Act
of 1936 of making subsidy payments only in an amount which will offset the
low wages and operating costs of competing foreign vessels thereby establish-
ing a condition of economic parity in competition.
Comment — What has occurred in the past when Japan was an inde-
pendent nation has no bearing on this discussion.
33. When the subject matter of this letter is considered by the
Department of the Army, by the Far Eastern Commission or by other national
or international agencies, this Federation will greatly appreciate the
opportunity of presenting further considerations.
Very truly yours,
/s/ F. A. Bailey
Frazer A. Bailey
Note: Comments by SCAF inserted.
-9-

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
C O P Y
Executive Officer, Civil Affairs Division,
January 26, 1949
Department of the Army
Office of Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas
Policy Aspects Regarding Entry of Japanese Merchant Ships
into United States Ports
Reference is made to your memorandum of 24 January 1949 in which you
request that the Department of State advise your office if there are any
policy matters which would preclude Japanese ships from entering United States
ports.
The rehabilitation of the Japanese economy is an important part of our
long-range policy and the Japanese merchant marine was, and will undoubtedly
be, a significant factor in Japanese economic revival. Implementation of
this policy would imply eventual approval of the entry of Japanese merchant
ships into ports of the United States and other nations. It is our feeling,
however, that the time factor is of primary importance and that such action
can ve contemplated at a later date as pur program of redevelopment of Japan
unfolds, although planning for such an eventuality should be undertaken now.
In other woras, final pproval of this action should be given as a part of
integrated overall planning and only after full public understanding of the
program to assure maximum support.
It is anticipated that the cal lins of Japanese merchant ships at our
ports in the imnediate future would result in vigorous protests on the part
of U.s. interests. Any such action would be aggravated by the present
condition of unemployment that now exists with U.S. seamen. The reaction
of groups directly concer ed snould, however, pe considered in the light
of the eneral public interest. efore final approval on such action is
taken, it is believed that there should ce consultation with labor and in-.
dustry in this matter, as well as a coordinated review of the problem by
the interested agencies of the U.S. tovernment and consultation with ap pro-
SECR
priate members of the ongress and with other interested governments. A
beginning toward this coordination could be obtained by a referral of the
matter to the Interdepartmental hipping Committee with the suggestion that
it consult with labor and industry.
r
C. V. Hulick
2
xecutive Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary
for Occupied Areas
ANNEX #2

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.92)
MA19949
In reply. refer to
NA
SECRET
Teer ob:
Thenk you for your letter of May 4 enolosing an
in1ti 1 steff study on Jupanfee shipoing and shipbuilding.
I sgrer th t determination or U.s. policy on this ques-
tion is  matter of considersble urgency, and will com-
804.8
municate 1th you on your sugr estion of the establishment
of n  hoo grour t complete work on the question
immedi tely I hav- hod an opportunity to examine the
stoft str'/ anc to consult the transport:tion and economio
85/5-1949
offices of the Department in the matter.
Sincerely youre,
alton utterworth
irector.for Far Eastern ffaire
SECRET FILE
8.
MAY
r. obert est,
6
Levuty to Assistant Secretary
h
191985
of the rmy,
8
Department of the Army.
SECRET
ey
5/11/49

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.86)
DC/R
File
In reply refer to
NA
TOP ST
te r ob:
1c
eference is made to your letter of Mey 4 enolos-
ine n initi 1 st f1 stuuy pre aree y the Separtment
of the ray on Je panese shi ping ond shipbuilding, and
to interim r ly of  .Te semartment of tate
s nor com letet consluerr tion of the stor study end
o wr its vie s on the oncluslons tnd econ nendation
the in  tollove (the mrmgravs numbere refer to the
orrs in th stuay):
Files
This Document Must be Returned Ie
Pa--The ouortment of tete fully supports
36
the rinciple th t a san should b permitted to revive
4.85
its merent  rine
normol me incortant fe ture
of the Jrnose economy.
D
5
re r 2--F C-2le, "henertione emovals of
5/7-2149
to u-tri teilitiee ne  eret nt hlrpine prom
", submitteo to the  e  . rolicy pro-
e onril , 1?, creommission proverty
vit ita suomiseion ene e nnot be withorryn by uni-
t I tecision or the nit d tove.me . cosition
on t is md subusecuent tmpers on the subject of repara-
tien iro umen ce nerehont shte in bme lon been
remervec, nowever, sno in the st tement reve uy sene el
e to the s on  Te the unites t: tes ennouneed
its o, osition to further inovstriel rever tions of eny
You
C
r.cert est,
2
outy to ist nt ect ry
of the rmy.
工
eorrtment of the ray.
1
TOP T

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP
SECRET
-2-
You will recall that in the concluding centence
of Ceneral MeCoy's statement the United States announced
intention shortly to submit to the PEC propesals for
the rescisslon or amendment of existing and pending
PEC reparstions rnd level-of-industry policy papers
so as to bring FEC policics on theee metters inte
conformity vith the new U.s. rosition that there should
be no further industriel reperations and "no l1mitation
on Japan's procuction for peaceful purposes or on
levels of Jar nese productive cepacity in industries
cevoted to perceful purposes". In p' epering drefts of
these propos ls, which it is hoped wili be ready for
discussion with the Denartment of the Army at an early
date, the Department has found itself without any
recent or authoritstive eynression of opinion by the
ationel Military stablisiment as to what, if any,
restrictions will be reguired for reasons of long-
ronge security on Jepanese non-arm ment industries,
particularly the pireraft manufacturing and shitping
and shi buildin industrles. The secretary of State
has accordingly written to the seoretary of efense
reguesting the National tilitary steblishment's vlews
on tnis cuestion. Copy of the Secretary'a letter 1s
enclosed.
Laregraph 26--The Department of tate agrees that
SCAr anould continue to solieit contracts for the con-
etruction of ships for export es an important source
of foreign exohange. If it should be decided, however,
in li ht of the Netional Military stablishment's
reply to the ecretery's letter, that eize and speed
restrictions on Janrnese merchant shirs are necesscry
for security reasons, it would be necessary to deter-
mine whether these restrictione s ould not also be
plicc to the construction of ships for export.
rpragreph 26--It is agreed that ship conetruction
for domestio eccount should be neceler ted, with due
consideretion for the competine rocuirements of other
Japanese industries for scarce materials and foreign
exchenge rosourccs. While there is at prefent no Fc
or U.. directive restricting the size or speed of
shi 8
TO. SECHET

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP
SECHET
-3-
shipe which SCAs may suthorize the Japanese to bulld
for domestio uee, it is unuerstood that SCap has never
theless epplied certain reetrictions on his own authority.
It 1e believed that SCAP should not be requested to
abendon these restrietions at least until it has been
decided within this Government whether restriotion of
Japenese merchant shipping and shipbuilding will be
necessary for security reasons. The proposal that
Sul sup ort Japanese leglslation encouraging invest-
ment by Japanese entrepreneurs in the construction of
merchsnt ships, and that compensation De paic in yen
for any ships constructed under that legislation removed
for reparutions, 1s believed sount and desirable.
Larauraph 27--The Department of State 1s of course
in full sympathy with and supports the purpose or the
Lep. rtment or the .ray to achieve economies in the
cost of occupation operations, and to provide en added
source of revenue for Japan. lowever, in ti w of the
sentiment in the Con ress with reepect to ohartering
of U.. owned vessels for foreign flag operatione, end
the strong op osition of the U.s. ehipping industry and
maritime lator to such & policy, the vepertment believes
that it woulu be extremely unwiee to propose at this
time the elimination of the restrictive provisions of
ublic Law 423, which prohib1ts the sale or charter
to foreign inter sts of U.. owned, war-built vessels,
so that such vessels could be chartered to Japan.
If the elimination of the restrictive provisions
of ublio Law 423 applicable to the sale and charter
of U.. owned vessels to foreign operators or govern-
ments were sought, the question of foreign charters
with all of its implications, to which the Congress,
the shinping 1ndustry, and maritime labor have been
strongly opoosed since the peesage 1n 1946 of the thip
Sales ct, would be opened again. It will be recalled
that a pro osel to remove the reetrictions as epplied
to Germsny was almoet unanimously rejected by Congress
a year ego, end that Congrees has shown 1tself most
unsympethetic to similer proposals by ECA.
If
TOP SECRET

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP
SECRET
-4
If special legisletion were sought to provide for
the chartering of U.S. owned, war-built vessels to
Jepan, a consideration of major concern to the Depart-
ment voul& arise out of the element of disorimination
a inet maritime nations who fought vith us in the war
gainst Japan. The Department would be compelled to
consider the implicatlons of such a proposal in oonnee-
tion with the concuct of rorelgn relatlons with other
countri s. From this point of viow. it would be diffi-
cult to justif chartering of United statce Government-
owned merchant vessels to Japan, wlle denying similar
fuciliti s to nations which fought on our slde againet
Japn. This discrimination would be the more pointed
in vier of the iact th t, i ccor ance wita the statu-
tory solicy soverning disposl of wer-built vessels,
lli:d overnments tere recuired to curchase or to
return the mereh-nt vessel: ste avallable to them under
Lerd Lecse utiorits.
arraph - here 1s at present,  you doubtese
kno, no la or regulation pronititine Jp nese ships
iro callin t .. ports. Unfortun tely the recuire-
ment th t careoes to wicn the rmy nolas title ce
c:rried on L. . veseele if rvailstle would lerve little
more than the relatively small cerrisge trede fron
Japn to the United stat s to be rendled by Jepenese
vesscls et piesent if such vessels vere eccepted in
U.. orte.merien veesele treveline to Jepan and
Japenese veseele tr veling to thle country would eaoh
return empty. it is believed imrort-nt, however, both
for the svines vhien voule eventually rcorue to apoan
ane ror the exam le set other r tione (assumint merioan
longshorenen proved willine to vort J penese vecsels),
th i s be novised, as you recommend, to permit
 nese sl ios to coll t united atatee ports to ais-
ch rae nd receive cargo snd  rrengers as businees
demen s indie te.
rra ao--The evertment of atete will continue
to af ford the supreme Commander ell ossible ci lome tic
esi tnee in Jenee shlroius satters.
Lerasre -- lt ou it is believed th t the
State nd Army Sep rtments shoula ureuere the initlal
āraft
TC  CRET

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP
BECRIT
-5
draft of e policy paper on Japanese shipping and ship-
building. submission of the paper immediately there-
after to the National Security Council would ignore
the considereble inter st of the Maritime Commission,
and vo 1d bring the Department of the Navy into the
picture only at the Nys level. Since the views of
domeetic shipning and shipbullding interests and marl-
time lsbor on the competitive sapects of this prob-
lem, end of the Novy on 1ts seourity aspects, will
have to be prowinently consldered in arriving at a
final U.3. colicy, it is believed that the Maritime
Commieslon end the Navy Department should be consulted
inc trcir views taken into rccount before submiesion
of a policy proposal to the Hic. The auprouriate
acdlur for obt: inine theee fnd cther concerned agencies!
vie: e in the metter 1s the hippine Coordinating Com-
I ittee, tbich w : zet u. to consider croclems of this
ty e, on w Lon the tnte, Army, Navy, Commerce end
rr sury  epartments and the Maritime Commission ure
represented at the sub-Cablnet level, and which has
lecently been reconstituted is an actively funetioning
 elfective pooy. fhe Jommistee slso hss edvieory
rr r ements vitn represent:tive inuustry end lebor
organi: tions tnrove vole it can seeure other than
soverumental vievpolnts. lt ls sccoreingly sug ested
tht the araft policy paper, prepsro ty t te no
roy i. lig.t oi the lavy sepertnent's vieve on the
cecurity rspects of the roblen r cveetec in the
enclosed letter to Secretsry Johnson, be submitted to
te Ilppine Coorcinating Conmittee for considerrtion
berore submission. to the Noc.
I neeo horoly emphesize that the epertment of
State fully arprecietes the importcnce to Jepenece
self-su port of the reccn struction of en adecuate
Ja nose merch nt marine, uno desires to further this
objeetivo by pll prsctieeble merns.
I snoula be glsd to prrenge for rerresent tives
of t 1s office end of the Dep rtment's office of
Tr nsrort ond Comru loetions to meet i sucl time ae
you
TOP SECRET

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.86)
TOL
RECRNT
-6-
you may wish to sugeest with representatives of the
Depertment of the Army as a werking group for the
prepar: tion of the initial draft of the polioy paper.
Sincerely yours,
.alton butterworth
"irector for Fer astern ffairs
Lnclosure:
"osy of letler irom
secretrry eneson to
vecrctary Johnson.
TOCT
RAY
Cloargh
Cleaad hyles.
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
Bornatt
lar sont
TRC:LPNickell
OFD
TRC
E
srlear
drolt.
droft.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DS-322
7-1.48
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
1 P.M.
Department of State
Charge Department X
CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROL
Charge to
XESPRDOPES
cre
3020
CLASSIFICATION
OT 13 1949
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
FOR DCIT.USE ONLY
TOKYO
502
INFO: ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
894.85/10-1349
URINFO SEP 28 ACC approved agreement outlined
ARMY TEL SEP 13 (War 94186).
8
Vessels now available SHLD fully activate N
P and O. Understood JAP continuing operate station X.
Priority Q and T to be determined when funds
available.
TREAS intends seek appropriation reimburse
JAP for operation S.
C
Acbeson
(ri℃)
P
ACHESON
22
at
b
894.95/10-1349
TRC/AV:MSinn;HMcA
FE
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
m.E.8.
(OFFICES ONLY)
CONFIDENTIAL
CR
OCT 18 1949
CLASSIFICATION
Corrections made on this original MUST be made on all
copies before delivery to Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
fiee
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
SECRET
TO
: NA - Mr. Allisob
DATB: Ootober 21, 1949
suject: Use of Force to Protect Japanese Fishing Vessels
Files
Central
RM/R
The following are the latest developments in conheotion
x1
with the plan to use force to protect the Japanese fishing
fleet:
894.628
(1) Letter from the Secretary of Defense dated
September 19 requesting that the Department protest to
the Chinese Government against its seizures of Japanese
vessels. After obtaining the views of the Legal Adviser
894.8
Returned to
on this matter, CA returned the file to NA yesterday with
the suggestion that we draft instructions to Chungking
directing that an approach to the Chinese Government in
this connection be made, and that in the Department's
reply to Mr. Johnson's letter we state our objection to
5
using the U.S. Navy to protect the Japanese fishing fleet.
(2) The Chief of Naval Operations plans to recommend O
to the Chief of Staff that the U.S. naval unit attached to 
SCAP (Commander Naval Forces Far East) establieh a regular N
patrol operation using U.S. vessels. In this connection
it should be noted that the patrol operation of the Seventh4
Taek Fleet is apparently a temporary or trial patrol. The 6
draft of the CNo memorandum to the Chief of Staff shown
me by Captain Warder also contained a recommendation that
a Japanese manned patrol force under SCAP be established
which would utilize the frigates which are being returned
by the Soviets. This recommendation is similar to that
set forth in the Navy telegram O80335Z of October 8 which
contains such a recommendation from the Commander in Chief Ω
(3) Despatch No. 675, September 27, from Tokyo report
that contrary to the approval of the Mission it appeare
that a decision has been made to undertake a trial patrol
operation in the East China Sea by the Seventh Task Fleet
with the support of the Commander of the Naval Force, Far
East (the latter being the naval forces attached to SeAp
whereas the Seventh Task Fleet operates anywhere  Far
Eastern waters).
1)
It appears to me that we might consider two ine of
6
4
action depending on the time element desired. Asnthe
temporary patrol will be placed into effect October 23 we
perhaps
SECRET

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
一 2 -
perhaps should forward the attached memorandum to the Seoretary
which merely informs him of the proposed action. (Mrs. Dougall
of CA suggested that we ask the Secretary's concurrence in this
memorandum to having the Department object to this action, but
I assume that this 1s not desirable.) The other alternative
which will take longer is to set forth in the reply to Seoretary
Johnson's letter the objections of the Department to the use
of the U.S. Navy in this connection and also the use of the
frigates by the Japanese.
FE:NA:HWMoseley:clh
SECRET

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
Mu Al,im
ANDARD FORM NO. 64
TOP SECRET
bradinn
TO
: FE - Mr Hamilton
DATE: October 25, 1949
NA - Mr. Allison
perarsed?
FROM : NA - R. FeareyRAr
sUBJBCT: Attached Memorandum(C  F l i)
The following brief and preliminary comments are offered
on the Discussion and Conclusions of the attached Department
of Defense Policy Toward Japanese Industry:
Paragraph 6c: The meaning and purpose of this paragraph
are not clear. It would seem that whether or not there is
"enduring peace between the U.S. and USSR," Japan should not
be permitted to have any military establishment or primary
war facilities which would constitute a threat to the security
of any country.
Paragraph 8. second sentence: This sentence indicates that
the Army Department envisages only the eventual establishment
of limited Japanese armed forces. The JCS position in the
last paragraph of General Bradley's memorandum 1s still vague
as to the time when such defense forces should be authorized.
Files
Central
This Document Must Be Returned To
Paragraph 9, sixth sentence: The statement that "Civil
air transport has become as much an essential service as rail or
road transport and therefore is necessary to Japan in promoting
trade and accruing foreign exchange" seems a little strong.
8
The reference to foreign exchange might indicate that the
5
Defense Department envisages authorizing Japanese overseas air
/10-25
operations.
Paragraph 10. (1) and (2): In line with the comment
immediately above, there seems to be some question from an
all-around point of view whether Japan should be permitted
4
to manufacture civil air craft.
6
Paragraph loc: The Army never seems to understand that
we cannot unilaterally withdraw papers put into the FEC
machinery. We can only state that we no longer support them.
Paragraph lod: I would recommend against our submitting
new "level of industry" proposals to the FEC on the basis of
the Department of Defense's position. We did, of course,
promise to submit such proposals in our May 12 statement, and
it might be argued that to do so now would help to condition
the FEC countries to the treaty proposals we hope to make in a
couple of months. It seems highly doubtful, however, whether
the
TLED
TOP SECRET
X 100003

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP BECRET
-2-
the FEC in the state to which it has fallen, and with the
present personnel available, would be the proper place to
announce and argue our position. Also, we could be fairly cer-
tain that that position would not remain confidential within
the FEC. It wiil be noted, further, that the Department of
Defense's views as stated in paragraph 10 would require consider-
able further definition before they could be made a basis of
new U.S. proposals. The wiser course would seem to be to hold
our fire until we are prepared to discuss a treaty draft embody-
ing our position with the British and other friendly governments
on a high-level, government-to-government basis.
The second sentence of the second paragraph of the JCs
memorandum 1s unclear to say the least. It 1s interesting also,
though I suspect it is an oversight, that the JCs in summarizing
their earlier stated views in Nsc 49 make no mention of the
retention of U.S. forces in Japan after a treaty.
TOP SECRET
FE:NA:RAFearey:db

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
STANBARD FORM NO. 64
TOP SECRET
No. /
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TO
:FE
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
101949
D4TE:October 28,
Thru : E
1949
FROM :TRC
Walter A. Radius
DIRECTOR
Department of State
suject: Comment on Lepartment of Defense's Proposals with Respect
to the Pre and Post Treaty Eras
TRC comments on the subject document are presented
below in the form of a proposed statement by the Department
of State to the Department of Defense, should that procedure
be agreed:
The Department of State concurs in the conclusion of
the Department of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff
that for security reasons the maritime industries of Japan
(i.e., merchant shipbuilding, merchant ship repairing, and
merchant shipping) should not be subject to restrictions in
the post-treaty period.
The Department of State desires to point out, however,
Files
DC/R
Ii..s Document Must Be Returned 
that it has an obligation to the member agencies of the
Shipping Coordinating Committee to seek a unified Govern-
ment position with respect to the subject in question, par-
ticularly since the Maritime Commission has repeatedly ex-
4.8
pressed the desire to have the matter placed on the Committee's
agenda. It is important to our foreign policy to avoid the
possibility of having to face a Congress hostile to this
conclusion with a divided Executive viewpoint.
5
While recognizing the overriding security considerations
involved, and the importance of economic recovery to the
success of reoresentative government in Japan, and the as-
1
sistance such recovery will give in alleviating the financial
2
burden of the United States taxpayer, the Department of State
08
desires to point out certain other consequences that flow
49
from this decision which present future difficulties for
United States foreign policy, and therefore indirectly for
United States defense:
1.
Size and speed limitations have been imposed on the
maritime industries of G ermany for the Occupation
period, the restrictive effects of which wili undoubt-
edly carry over into the post-treaty period because of
the long-term nature of investments in capital equipment
of the maritime industries. In the Prohibited and Re-
stricted Industries Agreement for Germany, such restric-(
tions were justified on security grounds and without
regard to economic competitive factors. The Department
8
ILED
a letter
19
52
TOP SECRET
X 100010

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
- 2 -
a letter from Francis P. Matthews, Secretary of the
Navy, to the Secretary of Stete, July 15, 1949, which
reads in part:
"As stated in a previous letter of 1l February 1949
from the Under Secretary of the Navy to Mr. Saltzman,
the primary interest of the Depertment of the Navy in
the matter of German shipping and shipbuilding lies in
the effect t hat any increase in German shipping and
shipbuilcing might have on the security of the United
States. The size of the effective shipbuilding indus-
try permitted Gerrany is the major factor of the poten-
tial threat to our security since there is no apparent
way in which the skills and facilities required to build
men-of-war can be made materially distinct from the
skills and facilities required to build seagoing mer-
chant vessels. A relaxation of the present limitations
on shipbuilding capacity, of the surveillance and in-
spection of that capacity, or of the prohibition on
construction or acquisition of warships, will result in
increased hazard to the security of the United States."
The removal of all restrictions on the Japanese mari-
time industries would imply either that we are not con-
cerned about conparable factors in the maritime indus-
tries of Japan, particularly shipbuilding; or that the
security arguments as applied to Germany are specious.
It would seem as if the disadvantage to Germary arising
from a restrictive treatment in the pre-treaty maritime
industries, or to put it the other way, the advantage
that will accrue to Japan from not having comparable
restrictions, may have been purely fortuitous.
2.
To the extent that the security of the United States
rests on the assumption of an unrestricted shipbuilding
program for Japan, it would seem that the present policy
of having Japan's shipbuilding industry devoted to
foreign account in order to obtain foreign exchange
should be reversed in the pre-treaty period, and that
her building program might better be directed to her
own needs. This would also heve the adventage of reduc-
ing the competitive pressure on the shipbuilding in-
dustries of the European Recovery nations, even if it
would reduce the foreign exchange for Japan in the in-
terests of her own security.
3.
An important part of the foreign policy of the United
States is the rehabilitation of the participating
nations
ROP SECRET

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
- 3 -
nations in the European Recovery Program. Invisible
earnings from the maritime industries represent a
significant item in their individual and collective
balance of payments accounts. This will be even more
true in the period immediately following the termination
of E.C.A. aid. To the extent that they may be confronted
with unrestricted competition from Japan at that critical
period in their post-war development, there will be an
unavoidable reduction in the respective shipping earn-
ings of all the recovery nations.
4.
The impact of unrestricted Japanese maritime industry
competition on India's and Pakistan's desire t o achieve
a merchant marine of their own will be seriously re-
sented by those nations. In view of the Department's
objective of maintaining friendly relations with these
nations, concern for their reactlon to this policy can-
not be entirely eliminated.
5.
The economic justification for adding to an existing
and projected world surplus in merchant shipping ca-
pacity is dubious on grounds other than the principle
of having comparative national efficiencies work them-
selves out in free competition. However, the adjustment
of over-supply to demand in the shipping industry is a
much slower process than in many other industries be-
cause of the long-term investment (20 to 30 years) in
capital equipment, and because of the inevitable in-
volvement with naticnal and defense interests. There-
fore, additional inorements to an existing surplus from
whatever source may have painful repercussions on the
future of international trade - primarily by precipi-
tating increases in national flag discriminations by
way of a defense rationele in order t o hold trade once
captured in a less competitive market. The Department
looks with concern upon the future impact on foreign
policy of such a contingency.
6.
The Lepartment is bound to call a ttention to the pro-
visions contained in Section 1ol of the Merchant Marine
Act of 1936:
"It is necessary for the national defense and develop-
ment of its foreign and domestic commrce that the
United States shall have a merchant marine sufficient
to carry its domestic water-borne commerce and a sub-
stantial portion of the water-borne export and import
foreign commerce of the United S tates......"
The post-war
TOP SECRET

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-4-
The post-war efforts of the United States shipping in-
dustry and maritime labor to hold their wartime gains -
even to increase them - have been spectacularly suc-
cessful in Congressional legislation. The Department
is on notice from both industry and labor that offsets
will be sought against the competition from the maritime
industries of the defeated powers. To the extent that
such offsets would take the form of additional legisla-
tive preferences, subsidies, and freight rate differen-
tials for United States flag shipping, our foreign
policy would be adversely affected by the inevitable
retaliations of other countries. Moreover, while it
may be argued that the financial burden to the United
States taxpayer will be alleviated by the recovery of
the maritime industry of Japan, it ay well be that the
financial savings in this instance would he transferred
in the form of subsidies to the pvican maritime in-
austries whose cometitive pos tion would be affected
iy such unrestricted co petition. No other industry
his presented quite the same problen to our post-war
foreign policy as has the shipping industry of the
United Jtates.
It is conceded by the Department that the economic con-
siderations outlined above are secondary to the defense con-
siderations outlined by the Department of Defense and the
Joint Chiefs of Staff in the dossier accompanying General
Carter Maruder's Memorandum to the Assistant Secretary of
State for Far Eastern Affairs, dated cctober 21, 1949.
Nevertheless, they are detailed herein for the purpose of
transmittin the Department of State's experience with the
recent legislative history of preferential treatment for
American shipping by the Congress of the United States.
In making the decision to place no pre- or post-treaty re-
strictions on the Haritime industries of Japan, the Depart-
ment of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff should be
aware of the probable strong opposition from the Congress
not only with respect to this particular section of a
proposed peace treaty, but to the proposal to lift the re-
strictions prior to the peace treaty. It is for this reason
that the Department considers it essential to have the problem
discussed in an executive session of the Shipping Coordinating
Comnittee in order to obtain a unified United States position.
When such a position is obtained, it would appear equally
essential to hold similar discussions with at least the
Foreign Relations Comnittees of the Congress.
Copy No. 1- Mr. Hamilton, FE
Copy Io. 4 - Mr. Nickell, SD
11
2- Mr. Radius, TRC
5 - Mrs. Fussel1,SD
11
11
3- Mr. Saugstad, SD
11
" 6 - Mr. Mann, SD
11
" 7-8-9 - SD Files
SD: JESaugstad:FRFussell:dd
TOP SECRET

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
November 8, 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR FILE:
 Subject matter of Mr. Radius' memorandum was discussed at a
meeting in my office this afternoon at which were present Mr. Radius,
Mr. Howard, Mr. Thayer from NEA, Mr. Fearey and myself. During the
course of the discussion, Mr. Radius told us that the subject was to
be considered at an Executive Session of the Shipping Coordinating
Committee at which time the Maritime Commission would have an oppor-
tunity to put forward such views as it might have. Mr. Howard and
I stressed our view that we should let the Defense Department carry
the ball in explaining its conclusion that no restrictions on Japanese
shipping were necessary from the security point of view. We also
said that we thought that Mr. Butterworth or Mr. Merchant, one of
whom Mr. Radius said would be present at the meeting, would probably
6
take the position that from the point of view of general commercial
4
policy, the U. S. did not favor imposing restrictions on ship build-
ing activities. I said that,in addition, FE on general policy grounds
8
opposed any restrictions on Japanese merchant shipping or ship build-
5
ing not required for security reasons. Mr. Radius showed some desire
to have some of the views expressed in his memorandum communicated to
the Defense Department. Mr. Howard and I felt that there was no need
for this, and that the whole matter would be taken care of adequately
by the meeting of the Shipning Coordinating Committee to be held next
849
Tuesday. Mr. Radius with some reluctance assented.
3.3√√.
C
x
5
S5
FILED
5 195
FE:MMHamilton/ikb

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.95)
TOP SECRET
DCR
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO : Mr. Merchant
DATE:
FROM : Mr. Hamilton
office of
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
SUBJECT:
101949
DIRECTOR
Department of State
Before the meeting of the Shipping Coordinating Committee
next Tuesday, I think it would be useful for you to look over this
file.
Please return all the tabs to Mr. Fearey of NA as some of them
are his only copies.
m.n.√.
L7/R
140
JUL 1 5 1952
CS/H
FE:MMHamilton/ikb
FILED
11-949
TOP SECRET
X 100204

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.92)
GOPY
TOP BECRET
Department of the Army
Office of the Under Secre'ary
Washington, D.C.
21 Oatober 1949
MEMORANDUP FO ASOISTALT SECRETARY OF STAT
HONORABLE. . BUTT RWORTH
Sl BJEC: Department of Defence Policy oward Japanese Industry.
1. y letter of 8 July 1940 the Secretary of State re-
quested the nosition of the Department of Defense, in light of
United st tes eecurity requirements and our over-all etrategic
plan for Japen, with respect to any restriotions to be imnosed
in the nost oocupati period on non-armament industry in Janan,
perticularly in the manufecture of aircrart and the type and
size of the manufacture of marine veasels for uee or eyport.
This matter has been the subject of protraoted study
in the Depertment of Defense. In addition to e atudy by a
Joint rmy-  vy-Air working groun, the opinion of the Joint
Chiefs of taff hos been obtained.
F. Ir viey of the fact that we ere now iritieting pre-
peratiors for nezotietions on a Jananese Peace "reaty, Under
Secretery of the ormy Trecy . Voorhees, wh 1e deputy to the
P
Seoretery of bef r se for occu led erens, decided that this
1: formstio ehould be furnished to you directly. We regret
S
the length of time coneumed by the Denartment of the Army in
efrectinr this etudy.
C
4. Ir accordance with the ebove instouctions, I enolose
17
two oorlee of the study prepared by the rm/-' rvy-hir working
groun and two copies of the aotion of the Jo nt Chiefs of
taff upon the assum t het you wil wieh to provide one
to r. owerd ns nart f the reference materinl he will use.
GART B. GHUDER
ajor Generel, 080
Incl:
Deputy to
1-kemo for C/s
Under Seoretery of the Army
atd 9 sent 49 (1n A0n)
2-Memo for 1/A
fr J0 dtd
10 ot 40 (ir dun)
TOP BRCRET

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.95)
GOPY
DOP SEORET
DEPA TMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECAETARY
9 September 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF
(Attention: Director of Plans and Operations)
BUBJECT: Department of Defense Polioy Towarde Japanese Industry
1. Attaohed hereto is a staff study o the above subjeet
whioh was prepared by en Army-Navy-Air Force vorking group.
2. y memorandum from the  ecretary of Defense to the
Secretery of the Army dated 21 July 1949 the latter was re-
quested to formulate and prepare for the approvel of the
Seoretsry of Defense the viewa or the Department of Defense
concern1 g the queet1ons raised by e letter dated 8 July 1949
from the Seoretary of State to the eoretary of Defenae (a copy
of this letter 1= at nched to the above-mentioned staff study).
It was further requested thet when such views were fordulated
that they be referred to the Joint Chi fe of Staff for examin-
ation fro: : military no nt of view. On 21 July lo49 the
Secretary of the rmy directed the nder Secretary of the Army
to take the recessary ectior.
3. The att ched atafe atudy hae be n cooraineted ae
follows:
General Fichelberger
r. est
A1r Force - Col. Bonnevalle
avy - Lt. ol. "arrison
Foo - Lt. Col. ilner ond Lt. Col. Wagetaff
ID - Mr. "age
4. It is requested that the attached staff etudy be oalled
to the attentlon of the Joint Chiefa of staf and that they be
requested to comment thereo from a military noint of view.
/8/ CARTER B. MAGRUDER
Major General. GSC
Denuty to the
Under Secretery of the Army
TOP SECT

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.93)
LOPY
TOP BECRET
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
POLICY TOWARDS JAPANESE INDUSTRY
Problem
1. To determine the po=ition of the Department ofDefense with
respect to the restrictions, if any, which should be imposed on pemce-
ful but poesibly war suprorting industries in Japan, partioulmrly
civil aireraft operation and manufacture, merchant shipbuilding and
ship repair, and the merchant marine.
Facte Bearing on the Problem
2. heasone for considering the oroblem at this time are set
forth in the letter of 8 July l949 from the Seoretary of State to the
Secretary of Lefense, An endix  hereto. (Also reproduced as appendix
T
to J0 l38o/6 .) This letter regueeted the viewa of the Department of
Defense with rerard to r striotions to be imposed in the poat-ocounation
period on non-urmament industries in Jadan.
3. Policies pertinent to the pro lem, foun 1n c l/3, "ecom-
mendations with Respect to l.. olicy Toverd Japen," ere:
1)
"4. The Fost-Treaty Arrangemente. United States tactical
forcee should be retained i Japan unti! the entrance into effect
of pesce tr  ty. A finel  .s. nositior concerning the post-
treaty erranvements for Japanece milit ry security should not be
formul ted unti' the peace rerotiationr are upor us. It should
Q
then be formu? ted i -re light of the preveiling international
eltuetior fnd of the degree of interral stability ao 1eved in
Japan.
S
2
"15. conomio Recovery. econd only to .. security inter-
este, econo ic recovery should be made the primary objective of
Inited tates molicy in Janan for the cominr ceriod ...
17
"1o. Control of Jepanese conomic ar rotential. Productiony
in, imvortatior into, and use withir Japan of goode and economio
services for bone fide pescef l rurronen shoula be permitted with-
out limitatior, excert:
a. Japen's economic var otentiel shoula be controlled
by restrictions on allowable ctockniling of designated
strategic raw muteriele in Japan.
b. Japan's incustrial disermament shoula be limited to
the prohibition of the menufsoture of weapons of war and
civil nireraft and the minimum of tem orary restrictions on
industriel production which cen be ndvocated in the light of
commitmerte alr ady made by the nited States regarding the
reduction of the industrial war potential."
TOP SECRET

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
"20. Japanese Reparations.
(3) That there should be no limitation on Japan's
produetion for peaceful vurposes or on levels of
Japanese produotive oapaoity in industries devoted to
peaceful purposes."
4. Far Eastern Commission polioy decisions pertinent to this
problem as well as proposed polioies and U.S. recommended aotion towards
them are as follows:
a. Redugtion of Japanese Industrial War Potent1al-FEc O84/21.
14 August 1947.
Para, raph 2a. - Definitions:
"Primary War Faoilities
(1) Primary war facilities are defined as plants and
establishments primarily engaged in the development, manu-
facture, assembly, testing, repair, malntenance, or
storage of combat ecuipment and products and oivil alr-
craft, and lants and establishments building merohant
ships above a size to be determined by the FEC.
b. (2) Primary war facilities should be impounded and
made availeble for reparations."
(FEC-340, 12 May 1949, announced determination of Un1ted
States to cease further reparations. Recommended action by
U.S. is that pronosals be made to FEC to bring previous
directives of FEC into conformity with U.S. position.)
b.
Interim Import-Export Pol1c1es for Janan--FEC 032/26.
24 Ju1y 1947.
Paragraph 5 - Exports
"13. Export industries should not be developed when the
character of such industries would contribute signifi-
cantly to the maintenance or development of Japan's war-
making potential or if they would promote dependenee of
other countries on Japan for strategie produots
2
TOP SECRET

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
(FEC 242, 297 1ntrodueed by the Un1ted Statee to *fim
up" final levels of industry. Because of resent U.S. poliey
of unlimited development of peaceful industries, United
States now intends to withdraw its papers, and ir neeessary,
prevent policy deoisions by the FEC.)
o.
Prohibitlon of Military Activity in Japan and Disposition of
Japanese Military Equipment--FEC Ol7/20. 12 February 1948.
Paragraph 1c(3)
"Japanese Military Equipment 1s defined as:
All airoraft of all kinds . . .
Fararanh 4
"The manufacture of aireraft of all kinds should be pro-
hinted to Janan."
(This F C policy decision must be resoinded or amended if an
airoraft industry 1s to be permitted in Japan prior to a peace
treaty.)
5. SWNCC policy deolsions, which established U.S. positi ns but which
are not controilinp on SCAp, pertinent to this problem are as follows:
a. Economic Dem1l1tar1zat1on--SWNCC 150/4. 6mSeptember 1945.
"The existing economic basis of Jananese military strongth
must be destroyed and not be perm1t ed to recover."
(Approved by the President, 6 Sentember 1946.)
b.
Redugtion of Jepanese Industr1al ar otent1al--SwNcc 302.
25 May 1946. (FEC 084/9)
Paragraph 12 a - Primery War Facilities
"the following should be prohibited in Japan ...
he building of merohant vessels over 50o0 gross tons,
the development, manufacture or assembly of oivil airoraft;
and the participation by th Japanese government or Japanese
nationale in the ownership or airborne operation of oivil
circraft."
(Forwarded to Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 23
August 1947. By S/NC0 302/2. 2 Maroh 194, which 1s a 1etter from
the Denartment of State to the U. . Member on the FEC ". . . the
government . . . conoluded to withdraw support from this parer
WNoe 3 a, but not to withdrew the paner physically from FEC."
3
TOP SECRET

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
TOF SECRET
0. SWNCC 302/6. 9 Apr11 1947.
"Conolusions
4b. Produotion in Japan of the following goods or
economical servioes are speoifically prohibited:
(3) Airoraft of any kind.
(4) Wateroraft of other than commerelal
design or in excess of 3000 l1ght displace-
ment tone, or in excess of 18 knots speed.
d.Japan's merchant and fishing fleets . . . will
not exceed 3. ,000 ton.
(Anproved by committee but was not to supersede wNcc
30? (FEC 084/9) on co d1tion tat FEC c84/9 remains in effeet
no longer than 1 January 1949 or the end of the "present phase
of occupation" whichever is earlier.)
d.
US.Pol1oy w1th Respect t Civil Avlation - SWNCC 379.
7 July 1947.
"a. Disoussion . . . T e policy herein set forth applies
to the oocupation period only. U.s. policy . . . post
occunation period . . . subject to later determination."
"b. Conclusion
1. Japanese nstionals should not be permitted to
engage in flight operations."
(A proved 31 July 1947; would be inconsistent with proposed
revision of NS0 13,3.)
Discussion
6. Although Fara ranh 4, Ns0 13/3, states that a final U.8. position
concerning the ost treaty arrangements for Janenese military seourity
should nct be formulated until the peace negotiations are upon us, and it
should then be formulated in the light of the prevailing international
situation an the degree of internal stability aohieved in Japan, neverthe-
less to assist in solving the present problem it is necessary to make theee
basic assumntions:
a. that the nited States will not permit Japan to become
Soviet dominaled either throush conquest or subversion.
4
TOP SECHET

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SEORET
b. That, 1n the event of war between the United States and
the U.S.S.R., Japan will be a country occupied by U.S. forees, a friendly
non-belligerent, or an active ally of the United States.
o. That, 1f there sh uld be an enduring peace between the
United States and the U.3.3.R., Japan would not be permitted to have
any military establishment or primary war facilities which would constitute
a threat to the seourity of any country.
7. Obviously, 1f the Uni ted States 1s unwilling to take all steps
necessary to satisfy the first two assumptions, Japan could go to the
U.S.S.R. by default and would become a serious threat to the seourity of
the United Stetes and to all ther non-Sovlet nations. If the United
States should decide not to protect Japan, then from a strategie point
of view U.S. intereste would best be served by seeking the olosest
aporoximat1 n possible to a denopulated and devastated Japan. Otherwise,
any Japanese potentlal would be available for use against the United
States and our friends. However, failure to protect Japan would be
illogical and such a course is not c nsidered here.
8. An economically stron2, friendly and western-oriented Japan
would be of reat value to the security of the nited States. Consider-
ation will need to be  iven to the eventual establishment of limited
Jananese armed forces to maintain internal security and to assist in
looal defensive action in event of en emergency.
9. "Seoond only to U.. seourity interests, economic recovery should
be made the primary objective of United States policy in Japan." The two
objectives to hand in hand. As long as the nited States is responsible
for Jepan, any defiolts in its economy will ultimately be paid for in
dollars by the U.s. taxpayer. Janon has been stripped of 1ts colonies,
and access has been closed to many of its nearest and best markets. Many
large, fast ships are needed to reech more distant markets and sources of
raw materials. Civil nir transport in  modern ecciety has become as
much an essential service as rail or road transnort and therefore is
necessary to Janan in promotin trade snd nccruing foreign exchange. If
a reas nable prosperity can be created, no: only vill the burden on the
U.3. taxnayer be removed, but representative government in Japan will have
a more fertile field in which to row.
Concluaions
10. It is concluded that:
a. There should be no limita ions or restriotlons on Japen's
commerce, communications or veaceful industries. In answer to specifio
questions couched by the Department of stste, the position of the Depart-
ment of Defense is as follows:
5
TOP SECRET

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
(1) Manufacture of civil airoraft--Manufacture should
be limited to types and numbers whioh would not constitute a
threat to the seour1ty of the United States.
(2) Operation of civil airoraft--Cperation should be
limited to an extent which would not constitute a threat to
the seourity of the United States.
(3) Merohant marine--No limitations.
(4) Merohant shipbuilding and ship repair--No limitations.
b. So far as praotioal, the foregoing should apply both to
the present and the post-oooupation period.
o. All pending policy papers which have been introduoed by
the United states into the FEC which are inconsistent with the foregoing
should be withdrawn.
d. The Un1ted States should propose to the FEC, regardless
of the 1mprobability of favorable consideration, that FEc policy decisions
which are inconsistent with the foregoin: should be amended to conform or
be repealed.
e. All SWNCC and SAlACC policies inconsistent with the fore-
going should be superseded by new controlling doouments.
f. Where incons1atent with the foregoing, NsC 13/3 should be
amended.
Regommendations
11. It is recommended that:
a. This study be referred to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for
comment from the military point of view.
b. Upon reoeint of the comments from the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, this study be amended in light of such comments, and, if approved,
that the study be then transmitted by the Beoretary of Defense to the
Seoretary of State as 1ndicative of the views of the Department of Defense.
6
TOP BECAET

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.95)
COPX
TOP SECRET
THE JOI T CHIEFS OF STAFF
Washington 25, D.C.
12 Oetober 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNDER SECHLTARY OF THE ARMY:
SUBJECT: Department of Defense Policy
Towards Japanese Industry.
This memorandum is in response to your memorandum to the Chief
of Staff, U.. Army, dated 9 September l949, on the subjeot of Depart-
ment of Defense nolicy towards Jepanese industry, in whioh request was
made that an attached staff study be called to the attentior of the
Joint Chiefe of Staff and that they be asked to comment thereon from the
military p int of view.
The Joint Chiefe of Staff perceive no objedtion from the mili-
tary point of view to those conolusione in the staff etudy which contain
military implicstions, namely, subpsragraphe a and b of pers reph 10.
They auggest, hovever, that in 1mnlementing these concluslone appropriate
safeguards be eateblished to preclude any mosstbility of the restrictions,
wher enforced, Jeopardizin our netional security intereets 1n Japan.
Ihe Joint Chi fe of taf invite sttontion to their atretegio
evaluation of United Ststes security needs in Japen which was forwarded
to the ecretery of Defense o  June lo4o (cony enclosed). The follow-
ing summerizes viewe contained in the eveluation which ar pertinent:
2. It is easentinl, from the militory point of view,
that Jepan he denied to the oviets and that Japan maintain
her orientatior toward the  e tern owers:
b. he terms of the  eace tr sty for Japan should not
be such es to preclude tilateral nerotietions for bese rights
in the Jepanese mai: iclande:
Q. In order that the ar ret communistic expaneion of
the oviete ma be held in check, at lenst ae far as Jenen 1s
concerned, Japan's internal security foroes must be adequate
9
cot only for maintenarce of order but also for protection
npainet sebotage of vital installations. Thie may involve
stronrer internal pecurity forcee than were thought to be
essential prior to the current overrunninp of Chinn: end
d. Janan's capaoity for self-defense must be developed
againet the time wher it mey be determined by the Soviete
that overt aggression by them or their satellites is their
only meane for geining control over Japan.
For the Joint Chiefs of Staff:
/e/ OMAR . BRADLEY,
Chairman,
ncloeure.
Joint Chiefs of Staff.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.95)
0
P
Y
In reply ref r to
NA
TO" SECRET
July 8, 1949
My dear Mr. Secretery:
You will recell thst paragreph 20 of NC 13/3,
"hecommendations With Respect to U.. Pollcy Toward
Japan", povidee thet "there ahould be no limitation
on Japan's production for pesceful purposes or on
levels of Japenese roductive capac ty in industries
devoted to peaceful purposes". Thie policy position
war announced to the ar Fnetern Commiselon in the
statement on Japanese repar tions and level of industry
read by Generel McCoy on May l? end elessed to the
press. It was further announced in the last paragraph
of the statement th:t:
"The U.. overnment plene shortly to sub-
mit to the FiC for its consideration proposals
for the reecission or smendment of existing
and pending FEc reparstione snd 'level-of-
industry' policy pa ers so ss to bring FEC
policies on these mstters, should the proposale
S
be a,roved by the Com iesion, into conformity
with the position which I have set forth."
O
R
Pursuant to this paragraph the Department of State
1s cu rently formulating new pro osele on the Japanese
0
level-of-industry question for submisslon to the FEC.
While the above-quoted rov1rion from Nsc 13/3 const1-
tutes a clear statement of general policy, it never-
1
thelers becomes necessory to determine whether certain
industries, not armament induetries but of major value
in w r, should be res ricted in Jp n for security
reasons
The Honorable
Louis A. Johneon,
Secretary of Defense.
TOP SECHET

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
-2-
reasons. The airoraft manufscturing and shipping and
shipbuilding industries should be considered in this
connection, and there may be others.
Paragraph 19b of NSC 13/3 provides that "Japan's
industrial disarmament should be limited to the pro-
hibition of the manufacture of weapons of war and olvil
sircraft . . ." The last formel expresslon of opinion
by any of the defense departments on the question of
restriction of the Japanese merchant shipping and ship-
bu1ldine 1ndustries was contained 1n SANACc 236/56,
"Reparatione Removels of Merohant Shipping From Japan",
submitted by the epertment of the Navy 1n March, 1948.
The Navy Department stated in this paper, contrary to
ε position which it had previoualy taken, that it con-
sidered thet "the retention a all merchant ships now
available to J:pan, regarclese of tonnsge or speed,
would not be inimicsl to the security interests of the
United  tat s or any other nstion." The Navy Department
oic not, however, recommend shense in the size and
speed limitetions on the construction of new shi s for
comestic uee in Japan, and on total permitted shipbuild-
1ng ce, acity in Japen, which it hed previously ap roved
in SWNC 236/43, "Reparations Removhbs of Industr1al
cilities nd Merchent Shiyping From Jepen", April 7,
1947. By the t=rme of Frc 4/21, "Reduotion of Japanese
Incustrial er Potentirl", existing Prc limitations
(calculated on the bacis of the FFC Interim Reparstions
emovale rec1sion on the hi building Induetry of ey 23,
1946) on totel permitted cs acity in Sapan to bu1ld,
repair or msint in ateel shios of ever 100 gross tons
wil1 Lapse on cctob-r 1, 1949. There 1s no FEC decision
limiting the size or eceed of nerchant shi s which
Jepen may own or build during the occupation, or its
capscity to build shipe above  given eire or epeed.
It vould be a reciated if you woulc advise me
whether the Nationel ilitery st blishment considers,
in light of U.. securlty reyuiremente and our overall
strategic planning for Japan, that restrictions should
be in osed in the ost-occu etion eriod on eny non-
armament industries in Japan. Farticularly, should
restrictione be 1mposed on the sircreft menufacturing
industry,
TO: SECFT

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
-3-
industry, or on the size and speed of individual mer-
chant ships constructed by Japan for domestie use, or
for export, or on the totel values of merehant ships
above a designated size built or owned by Japan. If
it is considered that restrictions will be required,
I would a preciate learning what in the vlew of the
Mational Military Establishment the restrietions, and
corresponding capacity or other limitstions, should
be. Our proposals to the FEC, which would have effect,
if adopted, only during the period of Allied ocoupation,
will be formulated in light of your reply, so that
they will aocord with United States long-range thinking
on t:ie question.
Gincerely yours,
/s/ Dean Aoheaon
FE:NA:RAFecrey:dh
EP
OFD TRC
E
6/10/49
TO: SECHAT

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.95)
0
p
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
Y
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
Outgoing Classified Message
CONFIDENTIAL
PRIORITY
To: SCAF
Nr::  95620
19 Oct 49
For MacArthur from Voorhees
Have Just received opinion from JAG (General Brannon)
that 1904 St tute does not requte shipment of GARIOA supplies
in Us tottoms, as such supplies are not supplies "for the use
of the rmy" within the meaning of that act. Believe we should
still follow policy applicable to ECA of shipment of at least
one-half on Us flag vessels.
Believe 1t desirable not to make any formal publicity
announcement of this altnough, of course, understand that it
will have to be explained to J pen se and will become publie.
accordingly, sssume thet rursuent our discussions,
financing either through private sources or counterpart funds
1e being mede available to ut in class the 40 shirs as
rapidly as facilities perait. here such shins are used for
@aRIoA csrgoes suggest initiel use for shipments fron areas
Do1
other then Us, with grsdual later trial of Us norts beginning
LS
15
with culf ports.
celieve best method of voluing legal complications on
GaRlo. supulies to be transnorted on such ships would be to
have delivery on them mede on FOB bas1s at port of origin.
e see no auvent ge her in my sue estion ebout sdopting
F
any ner fleg, as your existing SCAJAr flag 1s really SCAP
2
fleg. Only though I have is th t in describing it name be
changed from SC JA to omit reference to Japan from title to
minimize possible labor or shi pine objections in Us ports.
e may have some roaction fror Maritime Commission or
shiuping interests here anyway for which ve both must be pre-
pared.
Hopeful that this change in previous legal restriction
will prove to be a substantial furt er step for ard toward or
Joint objective of making Japan self-supporting.
CM OUT 95620
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
C
P
CONFIDENTIAL
Y
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CONFILENTIAL
FRIORITY
From: SCal Tokyo Japen sgd MecArthur
To:
Lept of rmy for Undersecretery Voorhees
Nr:
C 53182
22 Oct 49
heur -95620. .ct1on hes been in1t1ated here along
the lines you suggested curing your visit. One Japanese
vessel 1s now in cless cspable of far sees trsde and four
others can be nut in class during this calender year. Five
vessels re in class capable of near sees trade to include
India. ive additionsl vessels are being built in class
for nerr seas trede and will be completed in Jenuary 1950.
Two 2-A type vessels are in shipyaros undergoing conversion
for class; one additional hes been approved for conversion
and three are being surveyed by the clsssification soclety.
Applicstions for the converslon of 19 additional 2-A type
vessels have been recelved nd the 15 remaining 2-A type
vessels will oe evsilsble for conversion upon completion
of finonciel arrangements. Materials and facilities are
adecu te to complete the conversion program by the latter
S
part of 1950.
3
In: addition to vessels beine brough to clase it 1s
intended to continue using vessels which do not meet these
recuirements in Korean and other far eastern ports and to
reserve vessels meetine internationsl reguirements for the
3
lon er trade routes where they may be subject to rigid
enforcement of interntionel convention rules.
1
There has been an understandable reluctance on the
part of priv te ehin-owners to undertake the expense of
conversion until they have some prospect of oversess cargoes.
The 1nform tio contained 1n -95620 should serve s an
incentive. ll fersible measures will be tuken to facilitate
financine nd conversion und to assure cergoes. Due to
the comparatively small amount of off-anore @ARIOA procure-
ment in this area cargoes will be somehwat scaree until
lifts fron Us ports are undertaken. Nevertheless the merits
of this project are obvious nd it will receive our full
support.
CONFIDENTIAL
CH IN 12684

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
NA
TOP SECRET
221,1949
Dear Bot:
71
Reference is made to your letter of May 4 enclos-
ing an initial staff study prepared by the Department
of the Army on Japanese shinping and shipbuilding, and
to my interim reply of May 19. The Department of State
has now completed consider tion of the staff study and
offers its views on the Conclusions end Recommendetion
therein as folloys (the naragraoh numbers refer to the
corresponding paragrerhs in the study):
Paragraph 23--The Department of State fully supports
the principle th:t Japan should oe permitted to revive
its merchant marine as a normel and important feeture
of the Jrpanere economy.
Larepraph 4--Fnc-218, "Repar tions Removals of
Industrial Faciliti s and Merchant Shipping From
Japan", suomitted to the Fuo as a U.S. policy pro-
posal on April 9, 1947, became Commission property
with its submicsion and cannot be withdrawn by uni-
lateral decision of the United States. The U.S. position
on this and subsecuent papers on the subject of repara-
tions from Japanese merchant shipping has long been
reserved, however, and in the st tement read by General
McCoy to the FEC on May 12 the United States announced
its opposition to further incustrial reper tions of eny
kind from Japan.
You
Mr. Robert est,
Denuty to Assist:nt Secretary
of the Army,
Depertment of the Army.
TOF SECRET

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.94)
TOE
-2-
You will resall that in the conaluding seatonee
of General MeCoy's statement the United states anmoumoed
inteatlon shortly to submit to the Pzc propesals fer
the resclesion or smendment of exieting and peading
FEc reparetions and level-of-industry polley papers
so as to bring FEC pollcles on these matters inte
Gonforwlty with the new U.a. poslsion that there should
be no further industrial reperations aad "no limitation
on Japan's production for peaseful purpeses er on
levels of Jepsnese produetive cupaeity in indmstries
devoted to peaceful purpeses". In p eparimg drafts of
these proposels, whioh it is hoped will be ready for
dleeussion with the Depertment of the Army at an early
date, the Department has found itself withomt amy
reeent or authoritstive expression of opinlen by the
National Militery Esteblishment as to whet, if may.
restrietlons will be roguired for reasogs of long-
range sesurity en Jepanese non-armament industries,
partioularly the alroraft manufsoturing and shipping
and shipbulldins Industries. The Seeretary of State
has mccordingly written to the Seeretary of Sefense
requesting the Natlonal Hilitary Establishment's vlevs
on this questlon. Copy of the Searetary's letter ls
enclosed.
Larekraph 2ß--The Department of tate agrees that
SCAr should sontinue to solisit contreats for the con-
struction of sbips for export as an importent souree
of foreign exehange. If it should be desided, however,
In light of the National Xilitary stablishment's
reply to the secretery's letter, that size and speed
restriotions on Jepanese merehant ships are necessery
for sesurity reasons, it would be neeessary to deter-
mine whether these reetrietions should not also be
applled to the conetructlon of ships for export.
Paregraph 26--It ls agreed that ship conatruetion
for domestio account should be pecelerated, with due
considerstion for the competisg requirements of other
Japanese industries for soaree materials and foreign
exchange resourees. While there ls at present no FEC
or U.s. direstive restrioting the size or speed of
shie
TOF SKGHET

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.89)
TOP
SECHET
-3-
shipe whioh SCaf may sathorlse the Japeaese to bulld
for domostic use, it is underetood thit sCa? has never-
theless applied cortain restrictions on his owm aatherity.
It 1s belleved th t sCar should aet be requested te
abancon these restristions at leest uatil it has been
docided within this Government whether restrietion of
Japanese merchunt saipping and shipbuilding vill be
necessary for seourity ressons. The propesel thet
CAs supcort Japaneselhgislstion encoursging invest-
ment uy Japunese entreprenenre in the construetiom of
meronant shlps, enc that co pensation be paid in yem
for ny ships conatrusted under thst leglalation removed
for reparotions, ls belleved sound and deslreble.
urther study would be rrqulred, nowever, wefore 18
was ceolded that Japonese leelslstion slould be enooursged
or approved provluing for the sucslaizstion of merehamt
anipbuildins.
-The pertent of tete is or cour
i, full aymputhy witn rhu eupports the purpose of the
wepsrtment of the rmy to sohleve eeonomlos in the
cost of occupstlor operatious, amd to provice as added
souree of revenue for Jepan. nowever, in view of the
sentiment in the congrene with reaveet to ahartering
of  . . owned vescele for forelgn flse oporatious, and
the strong oy oaitlonoof the U. . shippine industry and
arritime l bor to suoh s pollcy, the Lepartment belleves
th t it wouln be eytremely wnwiee to propome et this
tiee the eliminution of the restriotive provislons of
ublie Lnw <s, whlet proniite the sele or charter
to forelen interrets of .. owned, war-built veasels.
so th t euoh vesmele could be ohertered to Jepon.
if the eliminotion of the restrintive provlelone
of ublie lew s23 prplleable to the sale and cherter
of . . owned veesele to forelen operatore or vovern-
ments were cought, the cvcntion of forelgn ahartere
vith Il or ite imnliestione, te whieh the Compresm,
the ship ing incostry, ena muritime labor have beon
stronply oproeed since the posmege in lpe6 of the ship
alee et, would be orened m in. it will be reo lled
th t  "reros) to remove the restrlatlone es mpplied
to Cermnny wes slmost unenlmoualy rejeoted by ongrees
yeur ago, enn th"t Congreas hen shown itrelr wost
unsymrathetie to simller ro oeals .
18
TOP HEONT

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.92)
1OR
-
If speclsl legislction were sought so previde fer
the ohartering of U.. owmed, war-bailt vessels to
Japan, e consideration of major coneern to the Depart-
ment would ariss out of the element of diseriminetlen
mgeinet maritime nations who fought with us in the was
against Japan. The epartment would be compelled te
considor the implioatione of such a propesal in comnee-
tlon with the conduct of foreign relntions with other
countries. From this point of view, it would be diffi-
oult to juetify chertoring of United states Covernment-
owned merohent vossele to Jspan, wolle denylng similer
feclliti s to netlone whieh fought on our side mgalnst
Jepru. Tuls dimcriminatlon would be the more polnted
in vier of the frct thet, in accortance with the state-
tory pollcy roverning ciaron l of var-bullt vessels,
allird governmente were recuiree to parchsse or to
return the merohent vesceln rede cvailablc to ther undor
Lend Lecse eutrority.
Lerecrepn pe--there in nt precent, ut you doubtees
wnow, no ler or regulction pronibiting Jrr nase mbipe
from calliny et ".F. porte. Unfortunntely the require-
mont thet csrgoes to whlon the Army tslde title be
carried on U.". "secele if svsilsble wculd leave little
more then the reletively smell carringe trsde from
Jepen to the Uolted tatre to be hrmaled by Jepenese
vessels at present if euer veesele rere sccepted in
U.. vorts. merloen veesels treveling to Jepan and
Jepenese vesesle trevellng to thlz country would emen
return empty. It is telieved lmportmnt, however, both
for the savinge whien would eventually acerue to Jeuen
end for the exmmple set other nmtions (amauming Amerlean
longehoremen proved willing to work Japenese vessels),
thet Ca be muvised, es you recommend, to permit
Japanese ahips to call at Unitsd states parts to dis-
enarge and reoelve exrgo end raseengers as businees
demend indloste.
Zarakrann 22--The Lepertment of 3tate will continue
to afford the supreme Commander sll possible diplomatie
anslatanee in Jaornese shipping mettere.
Earakra 30--Although it is belleved th t the
State snd Army Departments should prepare the initial
draft
TOP SSCRET

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.91)
TOP
-8
draft of a pollay paper en Japamese shippiag aad ship-
building, submission er the paper immedlately tmere-
arter to the National Seourity Coamell woula igmere
the conslderable laterost of the Maritlme Commlesien,
and wo ld briag the Departmeat ef the Mavy late the
phature only et the Nsc level. Bince the vieve of
domestio anipping and shipbullding interests and mari-
time laber on the competitive pspeots of this prob-
lea, and of the Navy on its seourity aspeets, will
have to be procinently considered in arriving at a
final U.S. polloy, it is believed that the Maritime
Commisslon and the Navy Departmeat should be sonsulted
and their veews taken into sccount before submieslon
of a polley proposal te the Nsc. The appropriate
sedlum fer obtelning these and ather concerned agenoies'
vleve In the matter ls the hipring Ccordinating Com-
sittee, whior wis set up to consider preblems of this
ty e, on whieh the Stste, Army, Navy, Commeree and
Treasury Cepsrtments and the Suritlve Comciasion ere
repreeented at the eub-tublaet level, and wrieb nee
recently been reconstituted ss en ectively funetionlng
end effective tocy. The Commistee sles hre advleory
arrengements with representetive lndustry and labor
organizatlons through vhie it cen cecure other than
ovarnmental vievpcinte. It is eocor ingly eugcested
th t the arsrt policy paper, preparod y tate end
Arey in light of the Navy Department's vieve on the
security pspeotr of the problem r cpeated in the
encloced letter to  ecret ry Johneon, be sutaitted to
the hipping Coordinating conmlttee for considerstion
before submiesion to the HC.
I need hardly ewpheelze that the epartment of
"tute fully mnpredintes the Importance to Japanese
self-sunport or the recon atruation of an &dequate
Jeneneee meronint merine, wmd desires to further this
abjective by all praotioable mexne.
I should be gled to prrange for repreaentctivew
of this Offiee end of the Department's urfice of
Transport and Communioations to sest at cuet time ns
you
TOEOAT

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.89)
1
-0
you may wish so suggest vith represeatstives ef the
Department ef the Army es e werklns gregy fer the
preperetien ef the Amisiel dreft of the peliey peper.
Sineerely yours,
.alton Satterwerth
Direetor for Par Tastern Affaire
Enclesure:
Co f of letter from
ecretary eheson to
scretury Johnmon.
TO. O
FE:NA:PAFearey:db
6/13/49
EP
OFD
TRC
E
TRC:LPN1ckell

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.82)
Uus. Haulto
Letter to Secretory of Defewse
October 3,1949.
In roply refer to
TOL DACHLI
er k. eretary:
ster the sblnet mseting on eptomber 1s,
"r. sheson ouslimed so the  resident nd Mr. Early,
Fω
whe was representing you, she rurport or his diseme-
slona with hr. sevin ss so poselble ways amd meams
for going forwar wish the Japamese pemee sreaty.
r. sheson strosced the fret thst she dlecusssoms with
08
"r. evin had bean purel) expleretory and that meshimg
9
would be done nor mmy cozzitmeate made matll, with
4
proper staff work, our propoasle hed reeeived she
ir sident's spprovsl.t the sugcestion of she Fresidems,
8
It was réreed tht à first step towar samelderaßion
5
of . ve ee trosty, shie epurteeat would sddress a wrassem
reu t to the rteent ef efense for adviee om the
essentll sesurity reculroments of the United sstes in
àeee settleent vith Jar.
I  therefore solloltine in Enls letter she advice
P
of your e; srtacnt vitn respeet to cur essentlal sesurity
S
rogulromeat: snoulc we, in the ner future, stsempt to
E
negotl te a pesee settlement wish Jspen. Is ls heped
CRE
that thle sdviee will te provided in * form whien would
perit r ey pre er tlon of the militry md serty
ol susee of é trecty shoulc lt be éeelded se prese for
rd vn a Jae pee ettlement  thie sime.
in snle onmontlon, I  rorvrlng tedy to the
zecutive eret ry of the vtlon) susity unell
for
oulJohaeon
eretry of ene.
TOY AGRAT

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.87)
TOP_SECHI
-8
fer distribution so the Counoll members this Departmeaste
cemmente on the Joint Chiefe of Staff'a strategle ewalas-
Sien of U.. seeurisy needs In Jepan (Nst e9). These
comseats were prepared with the thonght thas they weald
provide the pepertment of  efenee with helpful baskgrsumd
thinking of thls eperteent en the relstien betweem
polltleal and milit ry considerstions respeetins oar
becle objeotiwes and polley toward Jepan. For your eom-
venlence, I m attching e copy of those commemts to this
letter.
r. arly hee doubtless informed ygs of the eir
cumst nees wnier render cur studles or  problem of a
Ja nere pesee trety of consldernble urgeney. Mr. Sevim
inforved "r. ftrson during thelr resent eonverestiems
tht if the Unitedtatrs Dovermmemt would mhmit a drefs
of a Janese tr-sty to the ".r. Govermmemt for eemeld-
ertion in pdvrnce of the Commonweslth Foreign Mimleters
onference in Jemuery, he would, seaumlmg the drafs were
ascepttle to the .., endnsvor at the Commomwealt
vnference to enlist the sup ort of the Commonwealth
Gotrnmente for the draft. to provide mmeh s drafe
in t me, our two crertmente would probably have to
sgrer on its previsionn by mld-Movember, so thst the
dreft, se approved by the  snd the resideat, might
be presrntec to tho ritien in enrly Leeeeber.
I wa ennvloced tht we can hore to moet thls
achedule only by cloer eoll boration fros the osteet.
I therefore swggent tau t you conslder deteiling a
lgh-rankiny plenning offloer to purtiolpete in the
preger tlon or the milit ry md str teglo eeetlome of
the droft nd th:t this ofrieer communlcate immedictely
and dlreetly with "r. utterworth, selstnt seeretary
in cherge ofr asterm ffire. on our pert, I 
prep-red, if you so desire, to deslgn te un offieer
from the  epartment of t te to to svalloble to the
Joo Flanaers.
in oroer that the efense epartment msy be pro-
vluwd with x tenttive politicel framework for ite
recommendstions
TO SECBAT

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.82)
TOF BACHAT
-8一
rememmend tlone on the silit-ry snd strateglo seetlams
of the tre ty, your ropresentative will be furalahed
et the laltiel meeting, w lan it ls hoped may be eerty
axt week, wit  pesor ndum setting fortn the pre-
limin:ry vlewe or toe ureew of ar estem ffelre on
the  rooedur-s, gener  chvr cter snd some of the prin-
el nlnte ar eatent or the trests.
v1.
2

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
TO
: The Acting Seoretary
DATE: November 9, 1949
Through : S/s
FROM : FE - Mr. Butterworth
SUBJECT:
Measures to Stop Unwarranted Seizures of Japanese Fishing
Vessels
xR
Fil'es
Central
RM/R
874.628
Discussion:
During 1948 and 1949, a total of sixty-seven' seizures
of Japanese fishing vessels both inside and outside the
SCAP-authorized fishing area has been reported. Mest of
these seizures have been by the Chinese who in manys
instances have retained the vessels for operations in
the civil war and in seme instancee, thgy have resorted
to sinking the vessels and killing the crews.ome
the vessels have been seized by the Soviets  but the
latter seizures have consisted-only or those vessels
operating beyond the authorized-area Numerous protests
have been lodged by SCAP with the Chinese Mission in Tok
to no avail. SCAP feels that the seizures are threateni
to reduce marine food production and that he has an.oblig
tion to protect the fishing fleet. Pursuant to SCAP's
request, the Secretary of Defense has requested the State
Department to approach the Chinese Government directly
in an effort to secure the cessation of further seizures
by Chinese patrols and a release of all vessels and their
crews now held by Chinese authorities (Tab A). Instruo-
tions to this effect have been sent to Chungking.
The suggested reply to the Secretary of Defense's
letter is attached herewith. In this reply, it has been
considered advisable to emphasize to the Secretary of
Defense that any further eteps to protect Jepanese fish-
ing vessels should only be taken after advance consulta-
tion with the Department of State. The reason for this
emphasiε is as follows:
APR
I
The Department's attention has been informally callod
to two plane which are being considered by SCAP and the
E
Service Departments to prcteet Japanese fishing-veseels
(Tab B). The first relates to the establishment of a
55
regular U.S. naval patrol of the fishing area in the East
China Sea, following trial sweeps last month of this area
by U.S. Navy units. The second measure is one recommended
D
by the Chief of Naval Operations for the establishment of a
Japanese-manned patrol force under SCAP, and for the use
4
by that force of the score or more armed frigates which are
being returned to the US at Japanese ports by the USSR.
It
6
SECRET

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-2-
It is my preliminary view that, provided the US patrol
acted under certain opcrating instructione designed to mini-
mize the poseibility of international incidente, the patrol
of the East China Sea hy our naval vessels might prove a
desirable and effective method of protecting Japanese fishing
operations. Nevertheless it is a measure to which we probably
ehould not have recourse unless depredations against Japanese
fishing vessels continued deepite our formel protects to the
Chinese Government. As for the second suggested couree of
remedial action, I believe the operetion of frigates by the
Japanese would be contrary to the spirit and letter of FEC
policy decisions and of the Potedam Declaration, although
there might be no specific legal prohibition againat turning
over these frigates, disarmed, to the Japanese Fieheries
Inspection Fleet. Furthermore, in view of the present status
of our lend-lease negotiations with the USSR, it is doubtful
that the Department can approve transfer of these frigates
to Japanese hands in the immediate future.
Recommendation:
It is recommended that you sign the attached letter to
the Secretary of Defense.
Concurrences:
C
L/P CAA
EEFR
U/FW
WAL
FE:NA:HWMoseley:clh
FE:NA:MGreen
SECRET

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.94)
11/29/49
TO:
IVISIUN UI
: ASIAN AFFAIKO
FE:NA:
Mr. Hemmendinger
1949
PROM:
ENT OE STA
SD: Mr. Nickell
For handling - per telephone talk with
Nessrs. Shaw and White.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.82)
Tns Kalles
I do wot thrite there are
amy olyaitinis n v.s. pohej us
lan, mn does AtD, but will
you chare nite L and TRC,
and deaft accuilugin?
cor

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.91)
FE- NA Pw. No
110
111/
LAW OFFICE
112
GEORGE A.CONROY
RECEIVED
15 WILLIAM STREET
NEW YORK 5. N. Y.
NOV 23 1949
HANOVER 2-4037-4038
DEPT. OF STATE
DC/R
November
RECEIVED
194
NF023106 VA-K0lly
0V 25 1549
Settes brabtedDC/R
Tx0
The Honorable Secretary of State
BaST. ur ST
12-22149
Washington, D. C.
ybo
Dear Sir:
08
1285
I wrote to the United States Maritime Commission
u to DC/R
under date of November 10, 1949, as per copy enclosed.
8
5
I have today received its reply, a copy of which I am
XR
also enclosing. You will observe that the Maritime
K
Commission suggests that I consult you in the matter.
2149
894.642
Will you please advise me if there are any restrictions
yK
or if there is any law prohibiting the transaction
referred to.
Rl
Very truly yours,
Llorglh boroy
811.201
GAC:EC
Encs.-2
C
S
d
894.85
DOR - CLAIMS UNIT
A
224124
CTi.

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.97)
c
0
P
Y
UNITED STATES MARITIME COMMISSION
WASHINGTON
November 17,1949
Mr. George A. Conroy,
15 William Street,
New York 5, N.Y.
Dear Sir:
The receipt is acknowleuged of : r letter of
November 10, 1949, inquiring if there re any restrictions
or law preventing a United States corporation from con-
tracting for the construction of a vessel in a Japanese
shipyard for sale to Portugese interests and for
registration under the Portugese flag, without first
placing same under United States registry and flag.
The Naritime Commission would have no jurisdiction
over such transactions during peace times. You might,
however, wish to consult the State Department in the
matter.
Very truly yours,
/signed/
R. HOLNES
Ruth Holmes
Chief, Adm. Branch
Bureau of Gov't. Aids

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
C
0
P
LAW OFFICE
Y
GEORGE A.CONROY
15 WILLIAM STREET
NEW YORK 5. N. Y.
HANOVER 2-4037-4038
November 10, 1949
United States Maritime Commission
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
A client of mine, a New York corporation, is engaged
in negotiations with a shipyard in Japan for the con-
struction of an l800 ton steamer. My client also has a
commitment from a Portugese corporation for the sale of
that steamer with the understanding that the vessel can
be registered under the Flag of Portugal. With a
realization that Japan is still under occupation by the
United States, I thought it best, before proceeding with
negotiations, to ascertain if there are any restrictions
against a transaction such as above described or if it is
lawful for an American corporation to contract for the
construction of a vessel in Japan with the understanding
that it is not to be placed under the American Flag, but
is to be resold to Portugese interests for registry under
Portugese Flag.
I shall appreciate your response to this letter at
your earliest convenience.
Very truly yours,
GEORGE A. CONROY
GAC:DR

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
OFC2319
In reply refer to
NA
My dear Mr. Conroy:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of
November 21, 1949, to which are attached cop1es of
your letter of November 10 to the U.S. Maritime
Commission and the Cammission's reply to you.
It is noted that your client, a New York corpora-
tion, is engaged in negotiations with a shipyard in
Japan for the construction of an 1800 ton steamer, and
that your client has a comnitment from a Portuguese
corporation for the sale of the vessel subject to the
understanding that it can be registered under the flag
of Portugal. The Department is not aware of any restrio-
tions, based on United States law, which would bar an
American corporation from contracting for construotion
abroad of a vessel which is to be sold to Portuguese
interests end placed under Portuguese flag without first
being laced under American registry and flag.
2147
For your information, the occupation of Japan is
administered by the Supreme Commender for the Allied
Powers who derives his authority not from the United
States alone but from its Allies as well. Non-Japanese
nationals and firms are permitted to engage in inter-
national trade or other business aotivity in Japan
pursuant to and in compliance with laws and regulations
of the Japanese Government and the Supreme Commander.
It is
Mr. George A. Conroy.
15 William Street,
New York S, New York.
Jo

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
It is suggested that you may wish to obtain the
advice of the General Headquarters of the Supreme
Commander by writing to:
Economic and Scientific Seetion,
GHQ, SCAP,
AP0 500, c/o Postmaster,
San Francisco, California.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
EUII
Edward W. Doherty
Economic Officer in Charge
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
Cleared by phone
with:
WE - Mr. Kennedy
L/E - Mr. Wallaca
Wot
TRC/S - Mr. Coster
SEK
FE:NA/E:SKallis/mjP
12-22-49
DEC 23 1949

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
Rec'd. S8 11/30/49
GEO. R. COLLINS
ELMER WIERHAKE
S.B.HALL
HOWARD W. BALL
PRESIDENT
VICE PRES.& GEN'L MGR.
VICE PRESIDENT
SECRETABY-TREASURER
SD: L tickgee
WERTVIRGINIACTAL
AN
CHARLESTON,W.VA.
NORFOLK,VA.
NEW YORK
BLUEFIELD,W.VA.
CHICAGO
GRAYBAR BUILDING -42O LEXINGTON AVENUE
LONDON,ENGLAND
CLEVELAND
New York 17, N.Y.
CABLE ADDRESS
"MILTRENA,NEW YORK"
November 28, 1949
FE:NA:
N Hemmendenger
Raurittrin 1-4-5
File
The Office of the
Secretary of State,
Washington,
D.C.
Gentlemen:
Our London representatives, Messrs. Lambert
Brothers Limitel, 88 Leadenhall Street, have written
us stating that it appears, from recent press reports,
that the time is not far distant when the Japanese will
be allowed to run their own ships, and as the United
States is the occupying power, they ask us if we could
894.85/11
advise them of a competent authority to contact to ascer-
tain if this report is correct. If so, they wish to
know where they could obtain a list of the licensed Japan-
ese Shipping Companies, so that they could make approach
in regard to the particular business in which they are
interested; namely, bunker requirements and agency.
We would appreciate it if you could put us in a
position to reply.
2
Very truly yours,
2849
an
SMO KELESS FUEL COMPANY
M. Canter
013980
JAN 23 1950
M.Carter
4
FILED
894.85
GS
GOLD
STANDARD
COALS
SMQUELESS FUEL.
COMPANY
ANNUAL PRODUCTION FOUR MILLION TONS

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.89)
NH
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DC/C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ALNGRAH
1663
NAPROM
JSPOLAD, Tokyo.
Date of
CONFIDENTIAL.
(FOR DEPARTENT NLY)
mailing:
Docember 8, 1949.
no aly
Toc d: Dec. 14, 1949 4:24 
1
12/4/45
A
Secretary of State:
NA
ACTT ON
FE
Washington
h
INFO
file
DCR
341. Docember 14
SAM
BURX
As pessibi ity xlet mat Departent may not receive copy of tole-
68
2
grem on Japamess enipping cent Nov. 8, 1949, to Department of Army, by
DOLG
Fajos Generau W. . MaR Uar. Chief. Mronomie and Scientific Section, GHQ,
TTP
SoaP, text give. bolow in fe
OFD
8
PRO
Pass to BU OUS
Keurad Sep W 93973 and ourad
35/1
OTE
Aug 0 52010
Subjoet so Morehoat Earane.
12
des
heurpore 1  No construcsien yet started under
FY  poe rau First reels exopected te bo laid about Decomber
-849
-16-+
1949  sn minmm comubrresdom time of 6 to 9 months, no
additione l new ton a : wall be available before FY 51. These
shipe er complet  l probebly be ured marly in Japan's
trade vioh other Asissie countrias. Tonmage now availablo
or readily convertible for overseas trade totals 335, 000
gross tons, most of vhich is scheduled to be brought into
class during Y 50. lew ships nowrearing completion will
add 44 000 tons during c rent fiscal year.
"2. Reuspera . Previcus estimate of freight sav-
ings for FY 49 was "6. 000, 000. Further investigation now
indicates that this figure soriously underestimates actual
savings, and revised sstimates are being prepared.
Details
of pravious cstimate, in milliens of dollars:
Net Savings
60
Savings of dapenese vessels on imports
4.5
DEC
Eerringe of Japanese vensele on exports
0.5
Port expenditures of foreige vessels in Japan
1.8
Port expenditures of Japonese vessels abroad -0.8
22
5
Mith the maximum opertions cousidored potentially poesible.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.Tis opy mst be reed to DC/R ral es  an o n n.
C

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.83)
This su bsaquetly
Tokyo's A-34l,
December 8, 1949.
2
revisednto
Net savings and earnings are projected at 50,000,000 for
FY 50 and $75, 000,000 for 1Y 51. These figures are based
on optimn realistic essuuaptions rasher than the maximm
1y so
technically possible to realize. They assume entrance into
those ports. chisfly in Asia. Hhich appear most economical
For Japanese vessols to vieit, even hough many other ports
(e g., U.S.) might be assumed to be open. Background study
giving data on aveilable tenmage end cssumptions on use of
this tonnege will be sirmailad
"3 Reurpara 1 G Edistius dapacee vessels more
suitable Por trade in orien el wm ers than for trane-Pacific
trado Bstimates in para a virtma iy machanged if U.S.
porre opened to Japonese etiptms mnee est imates conten-
lete mautmisation of serminae   carrying trade almost
enttrely kdtn Astatie couabries
 Rourpare   Srasksern  appang sarminge in
Led n bdlanee fp e dr 7 49 ds as
obown t ara. 2.
" Reurpare 1a e peliey followed for
BoAdmr vessele as es ssabed tn ouret 9 August 49 Fart IV.
No liner service at prassse beine provided by lapanese
veusela
SEBALD
54.3.1
CONNIDENTTAL - (FOR DEPARDEYT OUY)

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.87)
CA
Hway
DIVISION OF
AMACTION COPY
ALD
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NA
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
HFA
OEC161949
1.3
44
CONFIDENTIAD
N
Action:
FE
Info:
E
F
Rec'd December 15, 1949
OLI
12:26 p.m.
CIA
TRC
FROM
Taipei
DCR
TC:
Beeretary of State
NO:
Jomroos Drcomber 3s. 4 p.m. (Navy Message)
FOR OID, STATE. DNO, PHL, POIN, CINCFE, COMNAVEE,
66
CS OPEEE TASLT.
E wa ees say apan se rishing vesaeis selred by Chinese
8
Mavy vllemedls woay ef lay longituce but actually east,
5
anetng uase fo moggling, rishing and coastal patrol.
Exa numr a hande cuinese unknown as diopersed
wtae ehout S tman. Captured erart remain within
2
chin  My bue uncer control of Taiwan Military Commad.
Seme reles pay wri and pompany are developing
 ive r hne irterests through seizure ships, but
5
oth eir le rm belleve Tangx En-po has dirttest
549
fun un tue e a ha did in pogara BorR shaps.
PL.
 aarsss.
EDGAR
DN
Paoaot ony tor arove sadreosces 12/15/49 4 p.m.
CA
hoted
12/6/49
2
Anie
ferI
COOFIDERENL
Dire
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE QIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ATH
Action Assigued to
Action Take
 , Cokyo.
Rante NA
ft secerber 27, 194).
2118150
SHIOTD
CT
wilin  lebocenter 23, 1019.
Acti
ec'd: Dec. 27, 1949 12: 08 pm
1
fic
J
sretr of state,
ACTION
FE
vashin ton
INFO
DCR
A-305, Daceber 22, 19 2.
L
DCL
Civil iranoportavion pection f veneral loadquarters has re-
ITP
Imested this Lissien to assist in o e rin: lanket clearances and
OFD
assurance of non-liserivinatory treat ent of Jananes car o vessehs 0
TRC
for teeir entr into ports of followin countries:
6
OLI
4
CIA
exico
ser 
in apore
AAN
0
Lon ont
8
Chile
Pasistan
hastrelia
5
France
toylon
alaya
-19
as epart t is aerm , , has been attemptin to uti-
lize Japanese s ippán ia move ent  carro to snd fron Japan in
order to assist restoration of Jaoanese econoy Availarle Japanese
occan-roin tonna es thou b sall at present, is iein raoddl, in- 2
creased by conversien pro rars whiclh vill nake total of 34 vessels, 
239,000 cross tonna s, availatl For overseas trane 1y end of ay 0
1240. During dapanese fiseat year 19,)51 additional 300, 00 ross
tone of nev construction is schel  led for connletion.
litherto veusel clearanees have leen re puessed by cach country,
except in case of undia pere specific provision for vossel cl-arance
was made in trade a ree ent
this precedure of indiviaual re uests
las Ioen slow end inoffect ve in order to i bain cleara ces suffi-
ciontly in advanee to as sure tilization of dapenese vessels in for-
ei n trade, it is essential that blanket vessel clearancos be secured
from countries where trade a reements are in prospect or here trade
a reements do not speci rically provide for participation by Jananese
vessels.
It is reguesteo that pmapartmect, thin ite diseretion, aporoach
overnments ef atove listed sountries with view to obtainina requi
site clearance for lapanese vessels.
171950
工
3 2 0
1AD
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central ies with notation of action taken.
tor:do

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.92)
FR
THE FORRIGN SERVICE
OFTHE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
SGV
13
RRXXERCK
REC.'D
6
United States Political Adviser
DEC 28
Letter ta Of of office, The Penguel
ACTION
flite  k2, 1249 Draftet 1/5750
FE
SGK
No. 894
DeR
INFO
DCR
OLI
file
TRC
UNCLASSND
MC
scm
Subgeete Appintent ef Aeasurers ly Japase Cover
894.
8
Phe Actrr Polatal Aavacer
5
he Japa
a list of seven Japanesew
wrose tonnage certafi
nese Doverneent es noeeeers
cates for phe pessegs f vese
Fe d Suez Ganals.
2
The Jupanese doveromect Las reques ted that thie Mission bring
2249
this matter to the attention of the Panana and Suez Ganal authori
ties as well as the governmants of these comiries interested in
vessels now wider constrastion in Jepan in eceortanee with, this
rejuest the Htsston bss forwarded the infornation to the canal au
thorities and te the Danishy Trenehy Horwosisn and Philippine dip
Tomatie pissions in Jacen. which a mom to to interestet in this
subject.
The Department may alse wish te forward the list of appointees
to other interested governments for their informat or and reference.
Enclosure:
List of Appointees
FILED
543.1
FED8 1350
SSCarpenter:do
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No, 894
dated December 22, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject" Ap-
pointment of Admeasurers by Japanese
Governnent".
(COPY)
List of Men Appointed by the Japanese
Government as Admeasurers of Vessels
for Tonnage of Panama and Suez Canals
Gohei, Junji
Graduated Tokyo Univ. Naval architects
1932
Now at Kanto Maritime Fureau
Yamashita, Masao
Graduated Tokyo Univ. Naval architects
1932
Now at Ship Eureau, Ministry of
Transportation
Itami, Yoshio
Graduated Osaka Univ. Naval architects
1935
Now at Kyushu Maritime Pureau
Hayama, Tsunehisa
Graduated Kyushu Univ. Naval architects
1936
Now at Kinki Maritime Eureau
Nakano, Yuki
Graduated Tokyo Univ. Naval architects
1938
Now at Chugoku Maritime Bureau
Matsumura, Masaya
Graduated Yokohama Technical College
Naval architects 1940
Now at Hokkai Maritime Pureau
Nozaki, Yoshio
Graduated Tckyo Univ. Naval architects
1940
Now at Kobe Maritime Pureau
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.97)
13
2
SECURITY: SECRET
PRIORITY: ROUTINE -AIR POUCHA
TO: DEPARTIENT OF STATE
1950
FROM: Taipei, Taiwan No. 140 December 27, 1949.
DCR
OLI
REF:
U/FW
John J. Macdonald, American Consul General, Taipei
SUBJECT: Action taken on letter under reference.
7311
Receint is acknowledged of the Department's instruction
of November 29, 1949 on the seizure of Japanese fishing
vessels by Chinese patrols which requested this office to
894.85/12-2749
make an approach to the appropriate Taiwan authorities
along the lines suggested in the attached instruction.
The problem has been brought to the attention of
General CHEN Cheng in his capacity of South East Defense
Commander, the emphasis having been placed on the desire
for the release of the seized Japanese fishing vessels.
In as much as General Chen Cheng is not in a position to
determine the policy of the National Government concerning
the extent of the power of SCAP, this facet of the problem
was not emphasized to him.
General Chen stated that he would investigate the
causes of the SCAP complaint and discuss the matter
further after study.
In a subsequent informal conversation Admiral KWEI
jokingly admitted the Chinese Navy possessed several
Japanese fishing vessels which they could not and would
not release in as much as they were vitally necessary
to the current military operations based on Taiwan and
extending to the coastal islands of Kinmen and the
Chusan Archipelago.
APR4-1950
x94.8
FILLD
27
2
EC CH
Donald D. Edgar
PH
American Consul
FAP
350
DDB/wpm
RWB
SS
RNM
FILE IN....
SECRET
SCB
DESTROY
HFA
PERM

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
CMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEC 301949
CA
DEPARTMENT F STATE
Tel drafses 
15
CoLA D ToLyo upafiSECRET
thei til.
Action: FE
Jan.3, 50
Info:
Xontrol 11698
ss
NA
a
Rec'd December 30, 1949
E
7:06 a.m.
fc
OLI
CIA
AAN
FROM:
Taipei
DCL
TRC
TO:
Secretary of State
DCR
NO:
CANTEL 1347, December 30, 5 p.m.
894.85/12-
Aide memoire presenteo Foreign Minister Yeh December 29
se ting forth faots related first two and one-half
pages Department 's seeret unnumbered instruction
November 29 regarding seizure Jap fishing boats. Also
8
stated burden seizure placed on Jap economy.
In ensuing discussion Yeh was requested secure recog-
nition by Chinese Government of SCAP as sole executive
LI/SON FICE
authority governing Jap activities on high seas,
cessation of seizures of Jap vessels by Chinese patrols
3049
and release of all vessels with crews now held by
DC/L
Chinese authorities. He was then informed that Jap
Government under SCnP directive operating inspection
fleet to check on operations fisning vessels and report
those outside authocized areas.
Penalties also re-
cited to him.
In preliminary response Yeh condemned seizures by
Chinese Government, explained he had previously attempted
prevent them, and indicated concurrence with US Govt's
position SCAP scle enforcement agency against Jap
vessels on high seas.
He tried to intimate some of vessels seized in Chinese
SECRET F
territorial waters but was informed such was not the
case. It was pressed on him that Chinese Navy imme-
diately pass through proper channels information refer-
ence violation by Jap fishing vessels in order that
SCAP might take appropriate action. Yeh reserved 
rights of Chinese Government in relation to such vese
1
found in Chinese territorial waters.
2
With regard inspection fleet Yeh requested be advis
C
their
NOTATHONFOF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-2- CANTEL 1347, December 30, 5 p.m. from Taipe1.
their types and markings and whether they would operate
outside designated fishing areas. He. was told infor-
mation would be reguested but presumably they would
necessarily not confine themselves to real limits.
Yeh woula make no statement reference return of vessels
and crevs.
Embasey will press Fcrelgn Office for reply should it
delay unreasonably, and will also take up matter infor-
melly vith Adm. Swel as Piret appropriate opportunity.
Requeet Department icstruet USPOLAp Tokyo inrorm
Embasay types and markingy inspection vessels.
STRONG
RB:ECW
SECHER
