894.032 Legislative Branch Of Government., Japan, Proceedings. Messages To The Parliament. Presidents Message To Congress., September 17, 1937 - November 11, 1939 (File 1148)
ID: 894.032-1148   Pages: 117   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.032-legislative-branch-of-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 17, 1937
No. 2594.
SUBJECT: SEVENTY-SECOND JAPANESE DIET.
For Di-triburion-Cbeck
894.032
Gride
Yo
For
In U B A
894.032/176
ONI MID
Li
11
is
2
ECE
COPIES SENT TO
5
DEPARTET
1
937 01 4
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
E/L
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
B
PCT 5 -- 1937
J
epartment of Srate
The Honorable
AA
Secretary of State
Washington
STATE
IC
S
activities of the Seventy-second Session of the
Japanse Diet can be briefly stated. After formalities
of opening the session, addresses of the Premier and
various cabinet ministers were heard on Sunday, September
1867
793.94/9898
19914
(Embassy's telegrams No. 340, September 4, noon; No. 343,
19916
September 5, noon; No. 344, September 5, 1 p.m.; No. 347
1-2/
September 5, 5 p.m.) Enclosures herewith give the text as
released in English of the addresses of the Premier and
Foreign Minister. On Monday both Houses commenced considera-
tion of bills presented by the Government. By the evening
F/G
of Wednesday, September 8, the emergency budget and all
bills

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
bills presented by the Government had passed and the session
terminated. The purpose for which the session was called was
to take emergency measures called for by the present hostili-
ties in China, and the Diet performed that duty in a war
atmosphere to the full satisfaction of the Government.
Several resolutions were passed to show the patriotic support
of members of the Diet and to inspire the people with a sense
of the need for emergency efforts.
In addition to the budget promulgated on September 9,
the bills which were submitted by the Government and all of
which were passed by the Seventy-second Diet are the
following: Law No. 84, promulgated September 9, 1937,
public loan for military expenditure; Law No. 85, promul-
gated September 9, 1937, establishing temporary military
expenditure account; Law No. 86, promulgated September 9,
1937, temporary adjustment of funds; Law No. 87, promul-
gated September 9, 1937, revision of foreign exchange con-
trol; Law No. 88, promulgated September 9, 1937, munitions
industry mobilization; Law No. 89, promulgated September 9,
1937, transfer of horses for military use; Law No. 90, pro-
mulgated September 9, 1937, temporary grain control; Law
No. 91, promulgated September 9, 1937, temporary fertilizer
control; Law No. 92, promulgated September 9, 1937, tem-
porary import and export control; Law No. 93, promulgated
September 9, 1937, temporary shipping control; Law No. 94,
promulgated September 11, 1937, relief of soldiers at the
front from taxes.
Laws No. 84 and 85 relate to the budget and will be
discussed by the Embassy when a report is submitted on the
budget which was passed by the Seventy-second Diet.
Law No. 87 revising the foreign exchange control is
being transmitted to the Department with despatch No. 2595,
September

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
September 17, 1937.
Law No. 92 establishing temporary control of import
and export is being transmitted with despatch No. 2596,
September 17, 1937.
Respectfullyyours
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
English translation as released by the Japanese
Government of address of the Prime Minister at
the Seventy-second Session of the Imperial Diet
on September 5, 1937.
2/
English translation as released by the Japanese
Government of address of Mr. Koki Hirota, Minister
for Foreign Affairs, at the Seventy-second Session
of the Diet on September 5, 1937.
803.
CC:mg

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2594 of September 17,1937
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Address of the Prime Minister at the
72nd Session of the Imperial Diet
on September 5th, 1937.
Gentlemen:
I am profou dly moved to say thet His Imperial
Majesty's most Gracious Message regarding the China
Affair was granted us at the opening of the Imperial
OBF
Diet yesterday. It is my humble desire that we shall
Komaye,
be able to set His Majesty's heart at rest by our loyal
F
and devoted service to the Throne in accordance with
the august will of our sovereign.
Since the outbreak of the Affair in North China on
July 7th, the fundamental policy of the Japanese Govern-
wwh
ment toward China has been simply and purely to seek
01(1
the reconsideration of the Chinese Government and the
abandonment of its erroneous anti-Japanese policies, with
the view of making a basic readjustment in relation between
Japan and China. This policy has never undergone a change;
even today it remains the same. The Japanese Government
has endeavoured to save the situation by preventing aggra-
vation of the incident and by limiting its scope. This has
been repeatedly enunciated; I trust that it is fully understood
by you gentlemen.
The Chinese, however, not only fail to understand the
true motives of the Japanese Government, but have increasingly
aroused a spirit of contempt and have offered resistance
toward Japan, taking advantage of the patience of our Govern-
ment. Thus, by the outburst of uncontrolled National
sentiment

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
sontiment, the situation has fast been aggravated, spreading
in soope to Central and South China. And now, our Govern-
ment, which has been patient to the utmost, has acknowledged
the impossibility of settling the incident passively and
locally, and has been forced to deal a firm and decisive blow
in
against the Chinese Government an active and comprehensive
manner.
In point of fact, for one country to adopt as its
national policy the antagonizing of and the showing of
contempt for some particular country, and to make these
the underlying principle of national education by implant-
ing such ideas in the minds of the young, is unprecedented
in the history of the world. Thus, when we consider the out-
come of such policies on the part of China, we feel grave con-
cern not only for the future of Sino-Japanese relations, but
for the peace of the Orient and consequently for the peace of the
entire world. The Japanese Government, therefore, has repeatedly
requested the Chinese Government to reconsider and to change its
attitude, but all in vain. This failure of the Chinese Government
has finally caused the present affair.
We firmly believe that it is in accordance with the right
of self-defense as well as with the cause of righteousness and
humanity that our country has determined to give a decisive
blow to such a country, so that it may reflect upon the errors
of its ways. For the peoples of East Asia, there can be no
happiness without a just peace in this part of the world. The
Chinese people themselves by no means form the objeotive of
our actions, which objective is directed against the
Chinese

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
Chinese Government and its army who are carrying out
such erroneous, anti-foreign policies. If, therefore,
the Chinese Government truly and fully re-examine its
attitude and in real sincerity makes endeavours for the
establishment of peace and for the development of culture in
the Orient in collaboration with our country, our Empire
intends to press no further.
At the present moment, however, the sole measure
for the Japanese Empire to adopt is to administer a
thoroughgoing blow to the Chinese Army so that it may
lose completely its will to fight. And if, at the same
time, China fails to realize its mistakes and persists
in its stubborn resistance, our Empire is fully prepared
for protracted hostilities. Until we accomplish our great
mission of establishing peace in the Orient, we must face many
serious difficulties, and, in order to overcome them, we
must proceed steadily with our task, adhering to the spirit
of perseverance and fortitude in one united body.
Now that our Imperial Army and Navy, with their loyal
officers and men, are advancing with all dignity in the
cause of righteousness, exalting its might far and wide,
we are filled with grateful emotion. Simultaneously, we
feel highly encouraged to witness the sincere support
displayed throughout the length and breadth of the Empire.
Let us, however, be on our grard against intoxication over
victories already won, and maintain an unrelaxed vigil
toward achieving our final purpose.
The Government is hereby introducing to the Imperial
Dier urgent budgetary and legislative measures. In these
measures the Government seeks to adopt a financial and
economic structure for coping with the present extraordinary
situation

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
situation. We are ready, however, to take all possible
precautions to avoid unnecessary shock to financial
circles. As for developments in the Affair, foreign
affairs and financial plans, they will be stated by the
Ministers in charge.
The Government feels greatly honoured to assist,
together vith you gentlemen, in the administration
of affairs of the State, and at the same time feels
increasingly the graveness of its responsibility.
We earnestly beseech you gentlemen to give approval
after mature deliberation to the Governmental measures
which will be introduced.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 of despatch
No. 2594 of September 17, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
03 F Entire Eno
Address of Mr. Koki Hirota, Minister for
Foreign Affairs, at the Seventy-second
Session of the Diet, September 5, 1937.
As I had occasion a short while ago at the 7lst Sessinn
of the Diet to speak on Japan's foreign relations in general,
I shall confine myself today to a review of the developments
since then of the China Affair.
Ever since the beginning of the present affair, the
Japanese Government, in pursuance of their policy of local
settlement and non-aggravation, have exerted every effort to
effect a speedy solution. The Nanking Government, whose
prompt reconsideration was invited, failed to manifest a
grain of sincerity, but concentrated their armies in North
China to challenge Japan, while in the Yangtze Valley and
elsewhere in South and Central China they embarked upon an
anti-Japanese campaign of the most vicious kind, which not
only prevented our nationals in that region from engaging
in their peaceful pursuits, but also jeopardized their very
existence. In these circumstances, the Japanese Government
still desiring to avoid the disturbance of peace as far as
possible, ordered the evacuation of all Japanese residents
in Hankow and other points along the Yangtze River. Shortly
after that, on August 9 at Shanghai, Sub-lieutenant Oyama
and Seaman Saito of the Landing Party were murdered at the
hands of the Chinese Peace Preservation Corps. Even then,
Japan, adhering to a peaceful course, sought to settle the
affair through the withdrawal of the Peace Preservation Corps
and the removal of all military works that had been erected
in violation of the 1932 Truee Agreement. China refused to
comply with our demands under one pretext or another, and
proceeded, instead, to increase her troops and multiply her
military works in the prohibited zone, and finally launched
an unwarranted attack upon the Japanese. Thereupon, as a
matter

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
matter of duty our Government despatched a small naval
reinforcement to Shanghai as an emergency measure to insure
the protection of our nationals in that city.
In view of these disquieting developments in Shanghai
the Ambassadors at Nanking of the five Powers--Great
Britain, America, France, Germany, and Italy--sent a joint
request on August 1l both to Japan and China that the two
countries do all in their power to carry out effectively
a plan to exclude Shanghai from the scope of any possible
hostilities so as to safeguard the lives and property of
foreigners therein. Our Government replied through Am-
bassador Kawagoe to the effect that while Japan was most
solicitously concerned over the safety of the lives and
property of all foreigners as well as of the Japanese in
Shanghai, China should, as the first prerequisite, withdraw
outside striking distance her regular troops and the Peace
Preservation Corps that were advancing on the Settlement
and menacing the Japanese, and remove the military works in
the vicinity of the International Settlement, and that Japan
would be prepared to restore her forces to their original
positions provided China agreed to take the above steps.
The Ambassador was also instructed to request the Powers .
concerned to exert their influence toward inducing China to
execute those urgent and appropriate measures, which,
however, were flatly rejected by China. On August 13 the
Consuls-General at Shanghai of Great Britain, America, and
France submitted a certain concrete plan, proposing that
Japan and China enter into direct negotiations for the pur-
pose of averting the impending crisis. The text of the
proposal was received in Tokyo at midnight, August 13. But
in the afternoon of that very day, the Chinese armies, that
had been pouring into the Shanghai area, took the ofrensive,
and on the l4th their warplanes dropped bombs not only on
the

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the headquarters of our Landing Party, our warship and our
Consulate-General, but also all over the International
Settlement. No longer could we do rnything but abandon
all hopes for a peaceful settlement and fight for the pro-
tection of our 30,o00 nationals in Shanghai. I regret to
say that the earnest efforts of the Powers concerned were
thus nullified by Chinese outrages.
Shanghai, having been converted into a theatre of hos-
tilities, grave concern was naturally shown by the Powers
who had vast amounts of capital invested and large numbers
of their nationals residing in the city. Great Britain
notified both Japan and China under the date of August 18,
that if the governments of the two countries agreed to
withdraw their forces mutually and to entrust to foreign
authorities the protection of Japanese subjects residing
in the International Settlement and on the Extra-Settlement
roads, the British Government were prepared to undertake
the responsibility provided that other Powers would cooperate.
Next day--on the l9th--we were informed by the French Govern-
ment of their readiness to support the British proposal.
The American Government also had previously expressed their
hope for the suspension of hostilities in the Shanghai area.
Japan, having as great interests in Shanghai as these
Powers, is equally solicitous for the peace of the city.
But as has been stated above, the actions taken by the
Chinese in and around Shanghai are plainly in violation of
the Truce Agreement of 1932, in that they illegitimately
moved their regular troops into the zone prescribed by
that Agreement, and increased both the number and armaments
of the Peace Preservation Corps, and in that, relying upon
their numerical superiority, they challenged the Landing
Party and  civilian population of our country. Therefore,
in

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
in their reply to the British proposal our Government
explained in detail Japan's successive efforts toward a
peaceful solution as well as the truth regarding the law-
less Chinese attacks, and stated that the hostilities at
Shanghai could not be brought to an end save through the
withdrawal of the Chinese regular troops from the pro-
hibited zone, and of the Peace Preservation Corps from
the front lines. At the same time, our sincere hope was
expressed that Great Britain as one of the.parties to the
Truce Agreement would use her good offices to bring about
the withdrawal of the Chinese troops outside the prescribed
zone. Similar replies were sent to France and America.
As for North China, in wilful disregard of the various
pledges and agreements, Chinese Central Armies were moved
northward to indulge in a series of provocative actions,
and large forces began to pour into the province of Chahar.
-Cur Government, therefore, have had to take determined
steps to meet the situation.
Thus hostilities have now spread from North to Central
China, and Japan finds herself engaged in a major conflict
with China on extended fields. I am deeply pained to say
that some 50,000 Japanese residents in various parts of
China have been forced to evacuate, leaving behind them
their huge investments, their business interests acquired
through years of arduous toil, and other rights and in-
terests, while not a fewof them have been made victims of
hostilities. It is also to be regretted that nationals of
third countries in China are being subjected to similar
trials and tribulations. All this is due to no other cause
than that the Nanking Government and also the local militarist
regimes in China have for many years paat deliberately under-
taken to incite public opinion against Japan as a means of
strengthening

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
strengthening their own political powers, and in collusion with
Communist elements they have still further impaired Sino-
Japanese relations. Now our loyal and valiant soldiers,
with the united support of the nation behind them, are
engaged in strenuous campaigns night and day amid indescrib-
able hardships and privations. We cannot but be moved to
hear of their heroic sacrifices as well as their brilliant
achievements.
It is hardly necessary to say that the basic policy of
the Japanese Government aims at the stabilization of East
Asia through conciliation and cooperation between Japan,
Manchoukuo, and China for their common prosperity and well-
being. Since China, ignoring our true motive, has mobilized
her vast armies against us, we can do no other than counter
it by force of arms. The urgent need at this moment is that
we take a resolute attitude and compel China to mend her
ways. Japan has no other objective than to see a happy and
tranquil North China, and all China freed from the danger of
a recurrence of such calamitous hostilities as the present,
and Sino-Japanese relations so adjusted as will enabl us to
put into practice our above-mentioned policy. Let us hope
that the statesmen of China will be brought to take a broad
view of East Asia; that they will speedily realize their
mistakes; and that, turning over a new leaf, they will act
in unison with the high aim and aspirations of Japan!

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..89.OO..P.R../118
FOR..Despatch#2624
FROM Japan
(....Grew
...) DATED.....Ot...131937.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.032/177
REGARDING:
Proceedings of the Japanese Diet:
Report on-, hich met from Sept. 4
to Sept. 8.
aa
F/MR

=== Page 14 === (confidence 1.00)
(a) The Diet.
The 72nd Session of the Diet was formally convened on Sep-
tember 4 and was adjourned on September 8, the Government's emer-
gency budget and all the Government's bills having been passed.
The legislation enacted is taken up in Section Iv of the present
report.
On September 5 addresses were delivered by the Minister
for Foreign Affairs, the Premier, the Minister for Finance, the
War Minister, and the Navy Minister. After outlining the Japanese
Government's version of the present hostilities in China, with
particular reference to the "provocative and anti-Japanese attitude"
of the Chinese, Mr. Hirota stressed the following points: that
the Nanking Government and the local militarist régimes in China
had for many years been inciting Chinese public opinion against
Japan as a means of strengthening their own political influence;
that in collusion with communist clemcnts they had still further
impaired Sino-Japanese relations; that obviously the basis policy
of

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
0
of the Japanese Government aimed at the stabilization of East Asia
through conciliation and cooperation among Jepen, "Manchukuo", and
China for their common prosperity and well-being; that China, ig-
noring Jepan's true motive, had mobilized her "vast armies" against
Japan, with the result that Japan had hed to resort to force of arms;
that Japan had no other objective than to see a "happy and tranquil
North China"; and that Japan wanted all China to be freed from the
danger of a recurrence of such calamitous hostilities as the present.
The Minister for Foreien Affairs ended his speech by expressing the
hope that the statesmen of China would turn over a new leaf and
would act in unison with the "high aims and aspirations of Japan,"*
Premier Hirota asserted that since the outbreak of the
"affair in North China" on July 7 the fundamental policy of the
Japanese Government toward China had been simply and purely to seek
the reconsideration of the Chinese Government and the abandonment of
its erroneous anti-Japanese policies, with a view toward making a
basis readjustment in the relations between the two countries;
that because of the aggravation of the situation by the Chinese, Japan
had been forced to deal a "firm and decisive blow" against the
Chinese Government; that the adoption by one country as a nation-
al policy of a movement such as that adopted by China against Japan,
including the underlying principle of national education by im-
planting such a policy in the minds of the young, was "unprecedented
in the history of the world"; that Japan was firmly convinced that
it was in accordance with "the right of self-defense and with the
cause of righteousness and humanity" that Japan had armed to give
a decisive blow to such a country, so that it might reflect upon
the errors of its ways; and that at the present moment the sole
measure for the Japanese Empire to adopt was to administer a
thoroughgoing blow to the Chinese Army so that it might lose
completely its will to fight.**
After
Embassy's telegram No. 340, September 4, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 343, September 5, 1937.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
After announcing that the extraordinary military estimates
were ¥ 2,020,000,000, the Finance Minister stated that these
oxtraordinarily heavy expenditures had been made necessary for the
punishment of the lawless Chinese Army and for a reconsideration
of its attitude by the Chinese Government; that the exportation of
commodities required in the emergency situation would be restricted;
that the importation of unnecessary commodities would be restricted;
that a bill would be introduced givine the Government virtually
complete control over financing and extension of credit to indus-
try; that another bill authorizing the Government to take over
specie in private hands and also foreign negotiable securities
owned by Japanese subjects would be introduced; and that the Gov-
ernment would continue to maintain the exchange value of the 
yen at one shilling twopence.*
The most pertinent portion of the War Minister's address
was mentioned in Section II (a), "China", of this report. The
Navy Minister's address contained a brief declaration that there
would be no interference by the Japanese Navy with the peaceful
commerce of third countries with China.**

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No.2662
Tokyo, November 12, 1937.
SUBJECT: SEVENTY-THIRD DIET OPENS DECEMBER 24, 1937.
TE
1937 912 40
COMUIATIONS
nQ DS
PT 0
DIOISSION OF
For Distribution-Chreck
Grode
10711
For
In U S. A.
ON/ MID
894.032/178
SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
Division of
OF STATE
EgL
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
B
894.0
NOV 2 9 1937
2.8
Department of State
Honora
The Secpetary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
DEC1-1937
I have the honor to report notice in the official
gazette of November 10, 1937 convoking the Japanese Diet
on December 24, 1937. The session thus set will be the
seventy-third session of the Japanese Diet and will be
an ordinary session.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
803
CC:v
F/G
n

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
GRAY
.FROM
Tokyo
Dated January 21, 1938
DT
Rec'd 7:32 .m.
SecrEtary of State,
Division of
Washington.
NS
45, January 21, 5 p.m.
ThE PrimE inister and sEvEral other ministérs will
894.032/179
nddrEss thE DiEt tomorrow when it rEconvenEs after the
894.832
NEw YEar holidays and it is Expected that thEsE addrEsses
will throw further light on JapanEsE foreign policy. ThE
Foreign CfficE informs us that thE address of thE PrimE.
Minister and of thE Foreign OfficE will bE textually
telegraphed this Evening to thE United States and will bE
rElEasEd therE on January 21 at 9 p.m., Eastern standard
timE by thE Associaied Press and United Press services.
Accordingly wE intend to tElEgraph only thosE portions
of thE addrEsses of thE other ministers which may bE
JAN 28 193
of immEdiatE intErEst to thE DEpartment.
PILED
GREW
RR
F/FG

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
11
jw
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CA
Gray
SHANGHAI VIA N.R.
COPIER SIN
FROM
DatEd Jan. 26, 1938
GPO
REcd 7:36 .m.
Divielon of
Washington
FAR EASTERN ATAIRS
894.032/
145, January 26, 6 p .m.
894.032
NORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS today commEnts Editorially
note
on Hirota's spEEch of Janaury 22 as an unsuccessful
741.94
Effort to play gff thE United States against Great
forner
Britain by thE (#) at thE ExpEnsE of thE latter and
8
0
criticizEs JapanEsE lEadErs for thEir failurE to real-
izE that thE two grEat dEmocraciEs of thE world will
protect their interests wherever they arE threatened.
I was told yEstErday by an American corrEspondent
that a fEw days ago a JapanEsE closE to thE officil
FTLI
JapanEsE spokEsmen had informEd him that an agrEEmEnt
3
bEtwEEn Britain and Japan had bEen rEached shortly
ater
thE PANAY LADYBIRD incident whErEby Japan would rEfrain
F/MR
from genEral operations against thε Canton arEa, which
might sErvE to lowEr British prEstigE. WhilE thE con-
sidErations wErE not stated it was hinted that thEy
might bε that Britain; (1) would curtail arms traffic
through Hong Kong, (2) not objEct to JapanEsE control
of thE YangtzE River. It was also hinted that such
agrEEmEnt had rElievEd Britain of thE ExpEnsE of sEnd-
ing further war vessels to thE Far East. According to
a press

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
CA
--2--145 from Shanghai..
a press rEport from Tokyo Baron Sonoda on thE 25th
said in thE HousE of PEErs that it was opportunE of
Great Britain to suspEnd thE cruises of her fleet
to thE Far East. HE also criticized Britain for
supplying arms and ammunition to China.
RepEated to thE Ambassador and Tokyo.
GAUSS
RGC SMS
(#) apparent omission

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
6814
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January
MR. HOINBECK
PA/H:
JAN 2 5 1933
Mr Hornbeok.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
S:
Mr. Secpetary.
There is attached a memo-
randum prepared by Mr. Ballantine
summarizing and commenting upon the
Japanese Foreign Minister's address
in the Diet on January 22.
If you have already read the
text of the Foreign Minister's
address, I suggest that you note
merely the comment on pages 3-4
of the attached memorandum.
m.m./d.
MMH/REK

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
6815
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
January 26, 1938.
Mr. Secretary:
You have doubtless already looked over
the text of Mr. Hirota's speech of January 22
(printed in papers of January 23) on foreign
policy.
You might find it interesting to review
the portions which I have marked on the copy
of the text here attached.
On the subject of this speech Mr.
Ballantine has offered comments, as per
pages 3 and 4, marked, of a memorandum
hereunder attached.
MK. HOBECK
s<H
JAN 2 8 1939
SKH
JAN 27198
partareto State
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
6816
Division of
POLITICA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MR. HOLNBECK
AAN25
Department of State
MR. HOBECK
JAN 2 5 1938
2
ZCR
Affairs, before the Imperial Diet on January 22, 1938.
FEB 3-1938
The speech made by Mr. Hirota, Minister for Foreign
Affairs, before the Imperial Diet on January 22, 1938,
consists for the most part of stereotyped generalities
894.032/18
on Japan's foreign policy. He deals in turn with Japan's
 27 1939
objectives in China, Japan's relations with "Manchukuo",
the Soviet Union, the United States, Great Britain,
894.032
Germany and Italy, foreign trade and trade relations,
nst
and Japan's "cultural work" abroad.
The Foreign Minister's remarks regarding objectives
794-00
in China contain little that is new. He notes, however,
that the four points communicated to the National Govern-
ment through the German Ambassador summarized the minimum
requirements for peace considered essential by the Japa-
FEB 4 -1938
nese Government. The address contained explicit reitera-
FLED
tions of Japan's pledges to respect China's territorial
integrity and the "open door". Mr. Hirota announced at
F/A
the same time, in amplification of the statement made by
the Japanese Government on January 16, 1938, regarding
Japan's refusal to deal further with the National Govern-
ment, that Japan was now looking forward to the establish-
ment
4

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
6817
-2-
ment and growth of the new Chinese regime, which it was
Japan's intention to assist in building up a new and re-
habilitated China. Mr. Hirota expressed the hope that
the powers will appreciate the propriety of the Japanese
demands and will cooperate for the establishment of the
new order in the Far East.
There is a hint in Hirota's comment on relations
with the Soviet Union that all is not well in that quarter,
especially his reference to the grave concern with which
Japan views the penetration of China by the Communist
Internationale which he says is destroying the social
order of the country and endangering the stability of East
Asia.
The Foreign Minister rejoices in the calm and fair
minded attitude in the United States and Great Britain which
permitted of an amicable settlement of the Panay and Lady-
bird incidents. He is particularly happy that the rela-
tions between Japan and the United States have suffered
no impairment, which he attributes to the fact that the
United States has always maintained a fair and just atti-
tude.
Mr. Hirota cites oloser relations with Germany and
collaboration with Italy and mentions Japan's recognition
of the Franco regime in Spain.
Turning

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
6818
-3-
Turning to foreign trade the Minister for Foreign
Affairs observes that while the total value for 1937
exceeded that of any previous year economic barriers
still exist which Japan is endeavoring to remove through
diplomatic means. He mentioned that trade agreements
had been concluded during the past year with India, Burma
and Turkey and a treaty of commerce with Siam, and he re-
ferred to boycotts against Japanese goods initiated in
various countries for which he blamed Chinese propaganda.
Mr. Hirota said the Government was now making appropriate
plans for strengthening the economic ties between Japan,
"Manchukuo" and China.
Finally Mr. Hirota dwelt briefly upon Japan's "oul-
tural work", which he said was necessary to establish the
foundation of permanent peace between China and Japan and
to make known to other peoples "our unique culture and
the national traits of our people who love justice and
peace". It may be taken that "cultural work" in this
context is an euphemism for propaganda.
Comment. Mr. Hirota's announcement regarding Japan's
intentions in relation to China appears to strengthen the
view that the pledge regarding China's territorial integ-
rity will be meaningless in view of the indication oon-
tained in the announcement that Japan will proceed with
the

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
6819
-4-
the dismemberment of China under similar fictions to that
employed when Manchuria was occupied. With regard to the
assurances concerning the intention of Japan to respect
the principle of the "open door", there are already indi-
cations from reports regarding the economic program in
North China that this principle will be subordinated,
as it was in Manchuria, to the exigencies of a policy of
economic nationalism.
The most hopeful feature of Mr. Hirota's address does.
not therefore appear to lie in his pronouncements with
regard to China's territorial integrity or the "open door"
but in his statement that "The importance to the conduct
of our foreign affairs of American understanding needs
scarcely to be mentioned. We shall continue to do our
best toward the furtherance of Japanese-American amity and
good will". This statement serves to indicate that the
United States is still in position to exercise a certain
degree of moral influence upon Japan although not to the
extent of causing Japan to desist from its present aggressive
course in and with regard to China.
m.m.H
un
FE:JWB:VCI

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12316
Te1 #79,7pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Feb 5, 1938
TO
NAME
1—1127
UPO
894.032/
Sino-Japanese conflict:-possible declaration of war by Japan.
REGARDING:
"Japan has not claimed rights of belligerent; and this position
was not, in any way, changed by the government's statement of
Jan l6", according to Foreign Minister, replying to request
for clarification of his statement in Diet of Jan 25 that
"both internally and externally the present struggle is in
fact a war".
182
FRG.
182

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
MBo
GRAY
Tokyo
NOTE
Dated February 5, 19:8
894.032
REc'd 8:27 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Wasington.
79, FEbruary 5, 7 p.m.
12279
Ty unnumbered Januury 31
5 p.m. via Shanghai.
WE WerE told at thE Foreign OfficE that the Minister
for ForEign Affcirs replying to c rEquest for clarification
of his stctEment in thE DiEt of Januer y 25 that "both
793.
internally and Externelly the prEsent struggle is in fact
a war", stcted et a mecting this afternoon of the budgEt
committEE of the Lower HousE thct: Japan has not claimed
力
the rights of a belligerent and this position was not in
12316
any way chcnged by thE government's statement of Janucry
16 (sEE our 32 January 16, 3 pom.).
REpEated to Shanghai for rElay to Hankow.
GREW
CSB:

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12326
Tel #80, 3pm
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Feb 6,1958
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.032
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japanese withdrawal of recognition of
REGARDING:
Chinese national government; possible declaration of war by
Japan.
Statements, carried by press, mentioned in Department's #38,
Feb 4, are probably excerpts from addresses reported in Em-
bassy's telegram of Jan 31, 5pm, via Shanghai. There was no
session on Feb 2nd of either House of Diet. There was a meet-
ing on that day of the Budget Committee but we find no record
8
3
of any statement made on that occasion by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs even remotely resembling that quoted in the
press report.
FRG.
183

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
MJD
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated Februury 6, 1938.
REc'd. 7:15 a. m.
NOTE
SecrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
80. Fεbruary 6, 3, p. m.
12314a
DEp rtmEnt's 38, FEbruary 4, 5 p. m.
Ther: was no sEssion on FEbruary 2nd of Either HousE
of thE DiE. TherE was a mEEting on that day of thE
BudgEt ComnitteE but wE find no record of any statement
793.
madE on that occasion by thE Minister for ForEign Affairs
EvEn rEmotely rEsEmbling that quotEd in thE Associated
Press report. ThE statement quoted together with that
12326
ributed to thE PrimE Minister arE probably Excerpts
from thE aAdrEssEs rErortEd in our unnumberEd tElEgram
January 31, 5 p. m. via Shanghai.
HPD
GRE

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.91)
JB5
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AAX
GAA
1938R5
February 24, 1938.
Dusar
AN 11 20
MMH
Tokyolsy Noo 2769, February 4, 1938,
Foreign MAwtater" ONncloses the text of
the speeches of PPomier Konoye and For-
eign Minister Hirota at the opening of
the Diet session on January 22. Hirota's
speech has already appeared in the Ameri-
cen press. Of interest is Hirota's refer-
ence to the Open Door, namely:
"Japan is prepered,for the
purpose of promoting the welfare
of the Chinese people, to leave
the door wide open and to welcome
their (foreign countries) cultural
and economic cooperation there",
suggesting that the Chinese people
are Japan's wards and that she is
now the door-keeper of China.
FE:Langdon: vCI

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.90)
W
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 4, 1938.
No. 2769.
SUBJECT: DIET ADDRESSES BY PREMIER AND FOREIGN MINISTER.
894.032
793.9
RECNED
10
Cpyin FE
894.032/184
3
LU
lud
Livision of
LL..
TAH EASTEHN ALLALS
1
MAA5-  1938
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/2
I have the honor to enclose herewith mimeographed
copies in English, as received from the Japanese Foreign
Office, of the opening addresses delivered by the Premier
and by the Foreign Minister on January 22, 1938, to the
73rd session of the Diet. According to information re-
ceived from the Foreign Office both addresses were tele-
graphed
F/M

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
graphed to the United States for release, and the Embassy
2
consequently informed the Department of that fact. without
179
telegraphing the texts. (Embassy's telegram 45,
January 21,
1938, 5 p.m.).
Premier Konoe's speech expresses satisfaction at the
progress of Japanese arms in China; invites the emergence
of a new régime in China which will cooperate with Japan;
repeats that Japan will continue to respect the terri-
torial integrity of China and the rights and interests
of other powers in China; implies that further control
of industry will be necessary in the material mobiliza-
tion of the nation; and states that the end of the con-
flict is still distant.
Foreign Minister Hirota's speech denies any terri-
torial ambitions in China; rebukes the Nationalist Govern-
ment for bringing hardship on the people of China by re-
4, Koki
sistance to Japan; describes the terms of peace offered
to China through the German. Government as (1) Sino-
Japanese anti-communist cooperation; (2) establishment of
demilitarized zones, (3) an economic agreement, and (4)
indemnity; anticipates the emergence of a new Chinese
régime; reaffirms the open door principle, but with the
qualification "for the purpose of promoting the welfare
of the Chinese people"; speaks with firmness of relations
with the Soviet Union, mentioning communist propaganda
work in China; refers to the Panay and Ladybird incidents
as amicably settled by the fair-minded attitude of the
governments; states that Japan will continue to do its
best

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
best for Japanese-American good will; mentions good
relations with Germany, Italy, and the Franco régime;
speaks for removal of barriers to international trade;
enumerates trade agreements concluded with British India,
Burma, and Turkey; states that boycotts initiated abroad
against Japanese goods are not yet serious; intimates that
an economic plan embracing Japan, Manchuria, and China is
in process of formulation; and summarizes Japan's present
policy as one aiming at a root adjustment of Asiatic affairs.
Both addresses are evidence of the stronger and stronger
resolve of the Japanese nation to make the present hostilities
a permanent solution of conditions in eastern Asia. Neither
adds much of detail to that general principle.
Respectfully yours,
800.2
Joseph C. Grew.
CC:C
EnclosurVs:1/Address of the Prime Minister, Prince
Fumimaro Konoe, before the 73rd session
of the Imperial Diet, January 22, 1938.
2/Address of Mr. Koki Hirota, Minister for
Foreign Affairs, at the 73rd session of
the Imperial Diet, January 22, 1938.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
coqy wnst woth

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2769 dated February 4, 1938,
22
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Address of the Prime Minister, Prince Fumimnro Konoe,
Before the 73rd Session of the Imperial Diet
- January 22, 1938 -
The New Year is with us amid the storm and stress of
the China Affair. Today at this session of the Imperial Diet
which faces a momentous crisis of our nation, I have the
honour to wish with you a long life to our Sovoreign and
prosperity nd happiness to the Imperinl House, bofore stating
to you the views of the Govornment. I have been moved beyond
words by the Imperial Message that was grnciously granted at
the opening session and by the deep concem shown by His
Majesty over tho present situation.
It is scarcely necessary for me to say that Japan's
immutable national polioy aims ct building the edifice of
permanent pence for East Asin on tho unshakable foundntion
of close co-operation between Japan, Manchoukuo and China,
and to contribute thereby to the cause of world penco. The
adoption some time ago of our determined policy not to deal
with the obdurate Kuomintang Government of China, and the
oxertion

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
exertion of ceaseless efforts towards the cultivation of
friendly relations with the Powers, have been both dictated
by this polioy of the Government. We all rejoice for the
sake of world peace that the tripartite Anti-Comintern Agree-
ment between Japan, Germany, and Italy was completed through
the participation of Italy last fall.
It is now more than half a year since the commencement
of the present conflict. The fields of hostilities have been
extonded from North China to Central and South China. The
valorcus and daring operations of the Imporinl forces have
brought us victory after victory. Nanking, the Chinese Capital,
quickly fell into our hands. The situation is developing most
favourably for Japan. While this is, of coursc, due to the
August Virtue of our Sovereign. I am profoundly grnteful for
the loyalty and courago of the officors nnd men of the Impor-
ial foroes at front end for the crdour and enthusiasm of all
our peoplo at home.
Now the Government look forward to the cmorgonee of a
new Chinose rogime which may roally bo countod upon to co-operat.
with

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
with Japan, nd with such a rogimo thoy intond to adjust
tho Sino-Japanoso rolations and lond thoir hands in the ro-
habilitation of China, and in laying firmly theroby the
foundation for a pormnnont poace of East Asic. Needless to
say, there will be no ohange in Jop an's polioy to respect
the sovereignty and territorinl integrity of Chinn and the
legitimate rights and interests of third Powers in China.
The mission of Japan as the stabilizing force of Enst
Asia is greater and her obligations have grown heavier than
ever. In order to fulfil this mission, and to discharge
these obligations of ours, we must certainly be prepared to
make hereafter still greater saorifices than we have made
heretofore. But unless we resolve to do this, we only lay
in store misfortunes for the future. I believe that to bear
such sacrifices is a noble duty that we of the present genera-
tion owe to posterity.
It is under a conviction suoh as this that our Govern-
ment are etriving with all their might to deal with the China
Affair

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
一4-
Affair and to achieve the end they have in view. And for that
they are working for the completion of the plans for the
national mobilization both material and spiritual, and the
execution of the various necessary measures. Under tnis policy,
the Government realize the first necessity of replenishing
armaments and filling the national treasury, and accordingly,
emphasis has been placed on this point in regulating crun-
try's economy and finances. As regards the budget for the
coming fisoal year, it has been so compiled as to devote as
much money and material as possible to the fulfilment of mili-
tary requirements, and to curtail as far as possible the
general consumption of the goods and funds having to do with
military supplies.
In the field of industry. the basic principle of the
Government will be laid in the increase of our nation's produc-
tive power under the one comprehensive scheme covering Japan,
Manchoukuo and China, and efforts are to be exerted toward
supplying the articles needed for national defence, promoting
all the important industries, and expanding our export trade.
A8

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-5 -
As for our work at the home front, not only everything
will be of course done in order to keep our officers and men
at front free from all anxieties for those at home, but
suitable and effective measures will be taken to provide for
the relief of the families of those killed, wounded, or taken
111.
Far distant still is the end of the conflict. We should
expect that it will be a long time before a settlement is
reached. Ours is indeed a momentous task unparalleled in
history. We shall never succeed in accomplish ing the task
unless all of us show the dauntless spirit of gladly and
courageously offering ourselves to our country. Let me assure
you that the Government, with patience and perseverance and
a resolute will, expect to reach a settlement of the Affair.
In accordance with these views, the necessary bills
together with the budget are being presented to you, on which
I earnestly hope that you, appreciating the intentions of the
Govermment, will give your approval.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 2769 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Address of the Prime Minister, Princo Fumimnro Konos,
Before the 73rd Session of the Imperial Diet
- January 22, 1938 -
The New Year is with us amid the storm and stress of
the China Affair. Today at this session of the Imperial Diet
which faces a momentous crisis of our nation, I have the
honour to wish with you n long life to our Sovereign and
prosperity and happiness to the Imperial House, beforc stating
to you the views of the Government. I have been moved beyond
words by the Imperial Messnge that was graciously granted at
the opening session and by the deep concern shown by His
Majesty over the present situation.
It is scarcely necessary for me to say that Japan's
immutable national policy aims ct building the cdifice of
permanent pence for East Asin on tho unshakablo foundntion
of close oo-operation between Japan, Manchoukuo and China,
and to contribute thereby to the cnuse of world penco. Tho
adoption some time ago of our determined policy not to deal
with the obdurate Kuomintang Government of China, and the
cxorision

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
一2 -
exertion of ceaseless efforts towards the cultivation of
friendly relations with the Powers, have been both dictated
by this polioy of the Government. We all rejoice for the
sake of world peace that the tripartite Anti-Comintern Agree-
ment between Japan, Germany, and Italy was completed through
the participation of Italy last fall,
It is now more than half a year since the commencement
of the present conflict. The fields of hostilities have been
extonded from North Chinn to Central and South China. The
valorous and daring oporations of the Imperial forces have
brought us victory after victory. Nanking, the Chinese Capital,
quiokly fell into our hands. Thc situation is devoloping most
favourably for Japan. hile this is, of course, duo to tho
August Virtue of our Sovereign, I am profoumdly grnteful for
the loyalty and c∞ urago of tho officers nd men of the Impor-
ial foroes at front and for tho ardour and onthusinsm of all
our peoplo at home.
Now the Government look forward to the cmorgonco of a
new Chinogo rogime whioh mny roally be coumtod upon to co-operat.
with

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
with Japan, md with such a regimo thoy intond to adjust
the Sino-Japanoso rolations and lond thoir hands in tho ro-
habilitation of China, nnd in laying firmly theroby the
foundation for a pormanont peace of East Asia. Needless to
say, there will be no change in Japan's policy to respect
the sovereignty and territorinl integrity of Chinn and the
legitimate rights and interests of third Powers in China.
The mission of Japan cs the stabilizing force of Enst
Asia is greater and her obligations have grown heavier than
ever. In order to fulfil this mission, and to discharge
these obligations of ours, we must certainly be prepared to
make hereafter still greater sacrifices than we have made
heretofore. But unless we resolve to do this, we only lay
in store misfortunes for the future. I believe that to bear
such sacrifioes is a noble duty that we of the present genera-
tion owe to posterity.
It is under a conviction such as this that our Govern-
ment are striving with all their might to deal with the China
Affair

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Affair and to achieve the end they have in view. And for that
they are working for the completion of the plans for the
national mobilization both material and spiritual, and the
execution of the various necessary measures. Under this policy,
the Government realize the first necessity of replenishing
armaments and filling the national treasury, and accordingly,
emphasis has been placed on this point in regulating crun-
try's economy and finances. As regards the budget for the
coming fisoal year, it has been so compiled as to devote as
much money and material as possible to the fulfilment of mili-
tary requirements, and to ourtail as far as possible the
general consumption of the goods and funds having to do with
military supplies.
In the field of industry, the basio principle of the
Government will be laid in the increase of our nation's produc-
tive power under the one comprehensive scheme covering Japan,
Manchoukuo and China, and efforts are to be exerted toward
supplying the articles needed for national defence, promoting
all the important industries, and expanding our export trade,
AS

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
一5-
As for our work at the home front, not only everything
will be of course done in order to keep our officers and men
at front free from all anxieties for those at home, but
suitable and effective measures will be taken to provide for
the relief of the families of those killed, wounded, or taken
111.
Far distant still is the end of the confliot. We should
expect that it will be a long time before a settlement is
reached. Ours is indeed a momentous task unparalleled in
history. We shall never succeed in accomplishing the task
unless all of us show the dauntless spirit of gladly and
courageously offering ourselves to our country. Let me assure
you that the Government, with patience and perseverance and
a resolute will, expect to reach a settlement of the Affair.
In accordance with these views, the necessary bills
together with the budget are being presented to you, on which
I earnestly hope that you, appreciating the intentions of the
Government, will give your approval.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatoh
No. 2769 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Address of Mr. Koki Hirota, Minister for Foreign Affairs,
At the Seventy-third Session of the Imperial Diet,
Delivered on January 22, 1938.
At the last session of the Diet I had the honour to
speak on the policy of the Japanese Government regarding
the China Affair. Today I desine to address you on the
subsequent developments which have occurred in the Chinese
situation as well as on our foreign relations in general.
The attitude of the Japanese Government t owards the
present Affair has been clearly set forth in their state-
ments made public from time to time in the past. Japan
has no territorial ambitions in China, nor has she any
intention of separating North China from the rest of the
ountry. All she wants is that China, taking a broad view
of the situation, will collaborate with Japan toward the ful-
filment of the ideal of Sino-Japanese co-operation for the
common prosperity and well-being of the two cout ries. Ac-
cordingly, even after the outbreak of the present Affair,
we eagerly looked forward to joining forces with China for the
purpose of securing peace in East Asia as soon as the Nation-
list Government should have discarded their policy of op-

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
position to Japan and Manchoukuo and evinced a sincere desire
to work together for this ideal of Japan. However, the
Nationalist Government failed to understand our true in-
tentions, and they were caught, so to speak, in the trap set
by themselves, being bound by their commitments to the anti-
Japanism that they had fostered for such long years. Unable
to act wisely and well with a calm judgment, but relying.
upon third Powers, or allying themselves with Communists,
they are even now calling for a prolonged resistance, re-
gardless of the plight of the 400 million reople of China
whom they have plunged into the depth of suffering and
misery. Now the heroic operations of our loyel and valiant
forces in the north and in the south, have forced the Nation-
alist Government to abandon Nanking, their capital, and to
flee far up the Yangtze River. Still unrepentant, they persist
in their desperate opposition. It is a most lamentable thing
for the sake of East Asia as a whole as well as for the peo-
ple of China.
Some time ago when the Japanese Government received a
proffer of good offices by the German Government to act as an
intermediary for bringing about direct nogotiations between

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Japan and China, they proposed, with a view to affording the
Nationalist Government a last opportunity for reconsideration,
the following four points as the basic conditions for the
solution of the Affair:
1.
China to abandon her pro-Communist and Anti-
Japanese and anti-Manchoukuo policies to collaborate
with Japan and Manchoukuo in their anti-Comintern
policy.
2.
Establishment of demilitarized zones in the
necessary localities, and of a special regime for
the said looalities.
3.
Conclusion of an economic agreement between
Japan, China and Manchoukuo.
4.
China to pay Japan the necessary indemnities.
These items summarized the minimum requirements which
were considered absolutely indispensable by the Japanese
Government. It was my earnest hope that the Nationalist
Government would sue for peace on the basis of these funda-
mental conditions. However, that Government, blind to the
larger interests of East Asia, and ignoring both our magnaminity
and Germany's friendly intention, exhibited no readiness. to

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
ask frankly for peace, but only sought to delay the matter
and ultimately failed to send a reply that could be re-
garded in any way as sincere. The Nationalist Government
having thus wilfully thrown away the last chance placed at
their disposal by the Japanese Government, it became clear
that there would be no hope of ever arriving at a solution
by waiting indefinitely for any reconsidcration on the art
of the Nationalist Government. It is because of these
circumstances that the Japanese Government issued on the
16th.of this month the statement that they would from thence-
forward cease to deal with the Nationalist Government.
is made plain in that statement our Govornment now look
forward to the cstablishment and the growth of a new Chine se
regime capablc of genuine co-operation with Japan, which
it is their intention to assist in the building up of a new
and rehabilitated China. I am fully convinced that this is
the only way of realizing our ideal of securing the stability
of East Asia through Sino-Japanese co-operation.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
I desire to avail myself of this occasion to say that
in Europe and America there are some who are apt to enter-
tain misgivings regarding Japan's intentions as though she
were trying to close the Chinese door, and expel the in-
terests of the Powers from China. Let me state explicitly
that not only will Japan respect to the fullest extent the
rights and interests of the Powers in the occupied areas,
but she is prepared, for the purpose of promoting the wel-
fare of the Chinese people, to leave the door wide open to
all Powers and to wclcome their cultural and economic co-
operation there. It is earnestly to be hoped that the
Powers, by recognizing the new conditions prevailing in
China, and by appreciating the propriety of such Japanese
demands for necessary and rational adjustments as have been
submitted, or may be submitted hereafter, in order to meet
those conditions, will co-operate for the establishment of
a new order in tho Far East.
As regards our relations with Manchoukuo, it is the
fundamental principle of our nat ional policy to help that
country to achiave a healthy progress as an independent

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
state, maintaining all the while its intimate and inseparable
relationship with our own. In accordance with this basic
principle our Government decided upon the abolition of the
extraterritoriality long enjoyed by Japan and transfer of
her administrative rights in the South Manchuria Railway
zone. And in the execution of thnt programme the first
treaty was concluded in June, 1936, and the second treaty
in November last year, the operation of both of which has
proved exceedingly satisfactory. As for the international
status of Manchoukuo, because of the various governmental
reforms and improvements accomplished through her strenous
efforts exerted with the help of Japan for thcir materializa-
tion, the Powers have come to revise their appraisement of
the new state. Italy, first of all, extended formal recogni-
tion towards the end of November last, and the mutual exten-
sion of formal recognition with the Franco Government of
Spain took place in the early days of the following December.
Japan's pclicy towards the Soviet Union has always been
guided by our conviction of the urgent need of placing the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
一 7 -
relations of the two countries upon a normal footing for
the sake of the peace of Bast Asia. It is in accordance
with this poliey thst we endeavoured within the pest year
to solve the long pending issue of the revision of the
Fishery Treoty: but unfortunately, owing to the attitude
of the Soviet autherities, we were cbliged to cenclude a
modus vivendi at the year end as in the year before last.
I should add, however, thet sinee the Soviet Government
εre procceding with the necessary internel preperstions
for the conclusion of an agreement previding for a
revision of the treaty now in force, we are taking stops
for the continuance of the negotiation anu tie signing of
the new agreement at the eeriest possible date.
This Government attaoh great importance to a smooth
operation of the Japanese concession enterprises in North
Saghalien.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
Saghalien. Let me say that the Japanese Government will
never allow these rights and interests derived from the
Soviet-Japanese Besic Treaty to be nullified through unreason-
able pressure. Again, the relations between the Soviet Union
and China are attracting the special attention of our nation.
China concluded in August last a non-aggression pact with the
Soviet Uuion, while members of the Communist Iuternational
have penetrated all clesses of the Chinese, destroying the
social order of the country and endangering the stability d
East Asia. Japan, ever solicitous for the civilization of
East Asia and the welfere of its people, cannot but view the
situation with the gravest concern.
Iu conduoting military operations in China, Jupan has
boen exercising special care lest the nationals and the rights
and interests of third Powers should suffer. Eut there have
ocourred, I regret to ssy, towerd the end of last year
the

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
- 9-
the Panay Incident and the Ludybird Iucident, involving
Great Britain and the United States. While it is necdless
to say thet their occurrence wes entirely unintentional,
it was feared for e timo that theso incidents might leed to
an elienation of feeling between Jepan and those two countries.
I rejoice that thanks to the calm end fair-minded attitude
taken by the governments of both countries nd the sincerity
of our government and people, the incidents heve been brought
in each case to an amiceble settlement.
Since the outbreek of the prosent Aff ir, the Uuited
States has always mainteined a fair end juat "ttitude, acting
on all occesions with such careful rsgard for ths ceuse of
Japenese-American friendship thst, despite such mishaps as
the Panay Incident, the relations of the two countries, I am
happy to sey, have suffered no impairment. The importance to
the conduct of our foreign affairs of Ancricn understanding
needs scarcely to be mentioned. Wo shell continuo to do our
best towerds the furtherance of Japenese-Amorican emity and
good will.
As

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10 -
Ao regards Great Britain, thero has been no change in
the policy of the Japanese Government, which aims et the
meintenance of the traditional friendship between the two
countries. I hope th-t the British Government and people,
grasping fully the importance of Anglo-Japenese relations,
will endeavour to comprohend correctly Japan's position in
East Asia and to co-operate with Japan for the furtherance
of peace and good understending between the two netions.
At the seme time, I desire to urge upon our own people to.
stand solidly behind this policy of the Government, in vi ew
of the scriousness of the genoral situation.
I am glad to say that Japen and Germany have been brought
closer together than ever through such uuspicious events as
the visit of H.I.H. Prince Chichibu who was ploased to make
e tour of that country on his way home from Eucland last year,
and also the cruise of the H.I.M.S. Ashigare, which included
a call at Kiel. Especinlly do this Government sppreciete the
friendly nd most sympsthetic attitude Germany has taken in
consonance with tho spirit of the German-J-penese Ati-Comintern
Areement.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
-11 -
Agreement. We will strive to strengthen further the co-
opereticn botwecn ths two countries.
From the beginning of the present Affair, Itely, under-
standing our truo motives, has collaborated with us along
ell lines. It is well known to you how sonsistently and how
energetioally the It-licn Governmout supported our country in
Neveuser last yorr rt the Bressols Conferenoe or the Signotory
Powers to the Nine Power Treaty. In conncction with the
question lready mentiened of the settiement of the present
Affair, the It-lion Gevernment gain menifested their sympa-
thetic coneern. Tuis Guvernnem cre most grsteful for theso
proofs of good will on the part of Ituly. Itely, which had
token rotunlly the some position as Japan in the me tter of
combatting the Comiutern, joined in the Gernan-Jupunese
Anti-Cuintorn orosment in Novembor l st. It is a subject
for congretulatio Fron the standpoint of securing world
peace that Japan, Germary and Italy have come to jein rorces
under the Anti-Comintern banner. This Government will seek
to

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-12 -
to extend further the effective operation of this agreement
in concert with Germany and Italy.
In Spain, the civil war which broke out in July 1936
has developed steadily in favour of the régime under General
Franco, which has now succeeded in bringing the greater
part of the country under its control, and in consolidating
its foundations. Moreover, the Franco Government is identified
with the Government of this country in the pelicy adopted
against the Comintern. In the light of these facts we have
decided to recognize that Government, and the tecessary steps
to that end were taken early in December last year.
A survey of our foreign trade shows that there has been
in the past year a notable increase, as compared with the
preceding year, of more than 5 per cent. in value as regards
imports and 18 per cent. in value as regards exports -- the
total velue of imports and exports together exceeding 7,270,-
oo0,Oo0 yen, which is an unprecedented sum in the history of
our foreign commerce.
Nevertheless

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
Nevertheless, there still remain the economic barriers
as heretofore. While endeavouring on the one hand to eliminate
hese obstacles through diplomatic means by dealing individual-
ly with the various countries according to their respective
ciroumstances and the measures employed by them, this Govern-
ment are exerting on the other hand unremitting efforts to
promote our foreign trade by every means available. During
the past year trade agreements have been conc ued with
British India, Bumna, and Turkey. There were also signed
in December e Treaty of Commerce with Siam and a supplementary.
agreement to the Italo-Japanese Treety of Commerce relating
to the Italian colonies. Negotiations are now in progress
with other countries for the conclusion of the necessary
trade agreaments, coverine both old and new markets.
A boycott of Japanese goods has boen iritiated in certain
countries owing to misleading Chinese propagande concerning the
prosent Afrair and to the machinations of the Chinese who
reside

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
- 14 -
reside there in large numbors. However, nowhere has it
developed into any ssricus proportions, thanks to the united
efforts of the Government and people and the fair attitude
of the gon ral public in tho countries conourned.
The Japanose Government believe it to be one of the
necessery conditions of the peace and harmony and the pro-
sperity of Japan, Manchoukuo and China, and consequently
of the entire werld, to increase rationally tho productive
power of those thres countries, and te strengthen their
eccnomic ties, and at the same time to prcmote their trade
with the rest cf the world. For the realization of this
purpose the Governient ere now carefull, preparing sppropriate
plans at homo and abroad.
Finally I desire to say a few words on cultural work.
In order to promcte intornational friondship and to bring
about a real peace among mankind it is necessery that nations
should fcrm intimato cultural bonds and cultivato a full
understanding of one another's ideals and aspi rations. The
present

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
present Affair is traceable in no small degres tc Chinese
lack of understanding in this regard. If Japan and China are
to build up a lasting friendship, they should undorstand each
othor's national conditions and characteristics, and cc-
operato culturally acccrding to the fund nental spirit of
the Orient. Taking this standpeint, the Covernment intend to
carry on in China mcre intensively than heretofore the cultural
work which will servs as a foundation for the purmanont peece
end prospority of the twe nations. At the same time the
Government will not relax their cuiturel work elsewhore
since there is a speciel necd, in the face of the present
intermationel situstion, of meking other peoplos better
acquaintod with our unique culture and the national traits
of our poople who love justico and pe ce.
I hope that from what I have now snic you have beon able
to understand the viows of the Govornmont reg rding the
present China Affeir end fereign quostiens in generel. In
brief, the undorlying aim of the foreign policy of the Gevern-
ment is to eradicate the root of cvil in  st Asie, to make
known

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
- 16 -
known throughout the world the justice of cur cause, and to
contribute toward laying the foundetions of world peece. To
that end the Govornment ere doing their very utmost. And I
trust thet you will appreciate the intentions of the Govern-
mont and will extend your co-operetion for the utteinment of
the objectives of cur foreign policy in deeling with the
grave emergeney that confronts the ntion todey.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 2769 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Address of Mr. Koki Hirota, Minister for Foreign Affairs,
At the Seventy-third Session of the Imperial Diet,
Delivered on January 22, 1938.
At the last session of the' Diet I had the honour to
speak on the policy of the Japanese Government regarding
the China Affair. Today I desire to address you on the
subsequent developments which have occurred in the Chinese
situation as well as on our foreign relations in general.
The attitude of the Japanese Government t owards the
present Affair has been clearly set forth in their state-
ments made public from time to time in the past. Japan
has no territorial ambitions in China, nor has she any
intention of separating North China from the rest of the
oountry. All she wants is that China, taking a broad view
of the situation, will collaborate with Japan toward the ful-
filment of the ideal of Sino-Japanese co-operation for the
common prosperity and well-being of the two court ries. Ac-
cordingly, even after the outbreak of the present Affair,
we eagerly looked forward to joining forces with China for the
purpose of seouring peace in East Asia as soon as the Nation-
list Government should have discarded their policy of op-

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
position to Japan and Manchoukuo and evinced a sincere desire
to work together for this ideal of Japan. However, the
Nationalist Government failed to understand our true in-
tentions, and they were caught, so to speak, in the trap set
by themselves, being bound by their commitments to the anti-
Japanism that they had fostered for such long years. Unable
to act wisely and well with a calm judgment, but relying.
upon third Powers, or allying themselves with Communists,
they are even now calling for a prolonged resistance, re-
gardless of the plight of the 400 million reople of China
whom they have plunged into the depth of suffering and
misery. Now the heroic operations of our loyal and valiant
foroes in the north and in the south, have forced the Nation-
alist Government to abandon Nanking, their capital, and to
flee far up the Yangtze River. Still unrep ntant, they persist
in their desperate opposition. It is a most lamentable thing
for the sake of East Asia as a whole as well as for the peo-
ple of China.
Some time ago when the Japanese Government received a
proffer of good offices by the German Government to act as an
intermediary for bringing about direct egotiations between

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Japan and China, they proposed, with a view to affording the
Nationalist Government a last opportunity for reconsideration,
the following four points as the basic conditions for the
solution of the Affair:
1.
China to abandon her pro-Communist and Anti-
Japanese and anti-Manchoukuo policies to collaborate
with Japan and Manchoukuo in their anti-Comintern
policy.
2.
Establishment of demilitarized zones in the
necessary localities, and of a special regime for
the said looalities.
3.
Conclusion of an economic agreement between
Japan, China and Manchoukuo.
4.
China to pay Japan the necessary indemnities.
These items summarized the minimum requirements which
were considered absolutely indispensable by the Japanese
Government. It was my carnest hope that the Nationalist
Government would sue for peace on the basis of these funda-
montal oonditions. However, that Government, blind to the
larger interests of East Asia, and ignoring both our magnaminity
and Germany's friendly intention, exhibited no readiness. to

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
ask frankly for peace, but only sought to delay the matter
and ultimately failed to send a reply that could be re-
garded in any way as sincere. The Nationalist Government
having thus wilfully thrown away the last chance placed at
their disposal by the Japanese Government, it became clear
that there would be no hope of ever arriving at a solution
by waiting indefinitely for any reconsidcration on the art
of the Nationalist Government. It is bocause of these
circumstances that the Jopanese Government issued on the
16th of this month the statement that they would from thenee-
forward cease to deal with the Nationalist Government. As
is made plain in that statement our Government now look
forward to the establishment and the growth of a new Chine se
regime capable of gcnuine co-operation with Japan, which
it is their intention to assist in the building up of a new
and rehabilitated China. I am fully convinced that this is
the only way of realizing our ideal of securing the stability
of East Asia through Sino-Japanese co-operation.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
I desire to avail myself of this occasion to say that
in Europe and America there are some who are apt to enter-
tain misgivings regarding Japan's intentions as though she
were trying to close the Chinese door, and expel the in-
terests of the Powers from China. Let me state explicitly
that not only will Japan respect to the fullest extent the
rights and interests of the Powers in the occupied areas,
but she is prepared, for the purpose of promoting the wel-
fare of the Chinese people, to leave the door wide open to
all Powers and to welcome their cultural and economic co-
operation there. It is earnestly to be hoped that the
Powers by recognizing the new conditions prevailing in
China, and by appreciating the propriety of such Japanese
demands for necessery and rational adjustments as have been
submitted, or may be submitted hercafter, in order to meet
those conditions, will co-operate for the establishment of
a new order in the Far East.
As regards our relations with Manchoukuo, it is the
fundamental principle of our nat ional policy to help that
country to achieve a healthy progress as an independent

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
state, maintaining all the while its intimate and inseparable
relationship with our own. In accordance with this basic
principle our Government decided upon the abolition of the.
extraterritoriality long enjoyed by Japan and transfer of
her administrative rights in the South Manchuria Railway
zone. And in the execution of thnt programme the first
treaty was concluded in June, 1936, and the sccond treaty
in November last year, the operation of both of which has
proved exceedingly satisfactory. As for the international
status of Manchoukuo, because of the various governmental
reforms and improvements accomplished through her strenous
efforts exerted with the help of Japan for their materializa-
tion, the Powers have come to revise their appraisement of
the new state. Italy, first of all, extended formal recogni-
tion towards the end of November last, and the mutual exten-
sion of formal recognition with the Franco Government of
Spain took place in the early days of the following December.
Japan's policy towards the Soviet Union has always been
guided by our conviction of the urgent need of placing the

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
relations of the two countries upon a normal footing for
the sake of the peace of Bast Asia. It is in accordence
with this poliey that we endeavoured within the pest year
to solve tho long pending issue of the revision of the
Fishery Treaty; but unfortunately, owing to the attitude
of the Soviet authorities, we wore cbliged to conclude a
modus vivendi at the year ond as in the year before last.
I should add, however, thet sinee the Soviet Government
are procceding with the necessary internel preperstions
for the conclusion of an agreement prcviding for a
rovision of the treaty now in force, we are taking steps
for the continuance of the negotiation and the signing of
the new agreement at the eariest possible date.
This Government attach great importance to a smooth
operation of the Japanese concession enterprises in North
Saghalien.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
Saghalien. Let me say that the Japanese Government will
hever allow these rights and interests derived from the
Soviet-Japanese Basic Treaty to be nullified through unreason-
able pressure. Again, the relations between the Soviet Union
and China ere attracting the special attention of our nation.
China concluded in August last a non-aggression pact with the
Soviet Uuion, while members of the Communist Iuternational
heve penetrated all clesses of the Chinese, destroying the
socinl order of the country and endangering the stability a
East Asia. Japan, ever solicitous for the civilization of
East Asia and the welfere of its pecple, cennot but view the
situation with the gravest concern.
Iu conduoting military operations in Chins, Jupan has
been exercising special care lest the nationals and the rights
and interests of third Powers should suffer. Eut there have
ocourred, I regret to say, towerd the end of last year
the

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
the Panay Incident and the Ludybird Iucident, involving
Great Britain and thc United States. While it is neodless
to say thet their occurrence wes entirely unintentional,
it was feared for a time thet these incidents might leed to
an elienation of feeling between Jepan end thoso two countries.
I rejoice that thanks to the calm and fair-minded attitude
taken by the governments of both countries nd the sincerity
of our government and people, the ineidonts have been brought
in each cnse to an amiceble sottlonent.
Since the outbreek of the prosent Aff ir, the Uuitod
States has always maintained a frir cnd just ttitude, acting
on all occssions with such careful regard for ths ceuse of
Japenese-Americnn friendship thet, despite such misheps as
the Panay Incident, the relations of the two countries, I am
happy to sey, have suffered no impairment. The importance to
the conduct of our foreign affairs of Amoricn understanding
needs scarcely to be mentioned. Wo shell continue to do our
best towerds the furtherance of Japeneso-Amcrican cmity and
good will.
As

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
As regards Great Britain, thero has been no change in
the policy of the Japanese Government, which sims et the
meintenance of the traditionnl friendship between the two
countries. I hope that the Eritish Government and people,
grasping fully the importance of Anglo-Japanese relations,
will endeavour to comprohend correctly Jopan's position in
East Asia and to co-operete with Japan for the furtherance
of peace and good understanding between tlie two netions.
At the same time, I desire to urge upon our owm people to
stand solidly behind this policy of the Govornment, in vi ew
of the seriousness of the general situation.
I am glad to say that Japen and Gormany have been brought
closer together than sver through such euspicious events as
the visit of H.I.H. Prince Chichibu who was pleased to make
a tour of that country on his w y home from Eugland last yeer,
and also the cruise of the H.I.M.S. Ashigara, which included
a call at Kiel. Especirlly do this Government appreciete the
friendly nd most sympsthetic attitude Germany has taken in
consonance with the spirit of the German-Jenese Ati-Comintern
Acreement.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
-11
Areement. We will strive to strengthen further the co-
op.retion botwoon the two countries.
From the boginning of the presunt Affair, Itrly, under-
standing our truo motives, has collaborated with us along
ell linos. It is well known to you how sonsistently and how
enorgetically tne Iu.licn Governmont supported cur country in
Novsuuur last yorr nt the Brassols Conference of the Signetory
Powers to the Nins Power Treaty. In connection with the
question lroady mentiened of the settlement of the present
Affair, the Itolien Gevernment gain menifested their sympa-
thetic coneern. Tuis Guverumem cre most grateful for these
proofs of good will on the part of Ituly. Itely, which had
taken rotunlly the semo position es Japan in the me tter of
combatting the Cunintern, joined in the German-Jepuuese
Anti-Cuintern Anroement in Novembor I. st. It is a subjoot
fer congratulation from the standpoint of securing world
peace thet Japan, Germany and Italy have come to jein forces
under the Anti-Comintern banner. This Govermront will seek
to

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-12 -
to extend further the effective operation of this agreement
in concert with Germany and Italy.
In Spain, the civil war which broke out in July 1936
has developed steadily in favour of the régime under General
Franco, which has now succeeded in bringing the greater
part of the country under its control, and in consolidating
its foundations. Moreover, the Franco Government is identified
with the Governnent of this country in the policy adopted
against the Comintern. In the light of these facts we have
decided to recognize thet Government, and the necessary steps
to that end were taken early in December last year.
A survey of our foreign trade shows that there has been
in the past year a notable increase, as compered with the
preceding year, of more than 35 per cent. in value as regards
imports and 18 per cent. in vslue as regards exports -- the
total value of imports and exports together exceeding 7,270,-
oo0,0oo yen, which is an unprecedented sum in the history of
our foreign commerce.
Nevertheless

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
713-
Nevertheless, there still remain the economic barriers
as heretofore. While endeavouring on the one hand to eliminate
these obstacles through diplomatic means by dealing individual-
ly with the various countries according to their respective
oiroumstauces and the measures employed by them, this Govern-
ment are exerting on the other hand unremitting efforts to
promote our foreign trade by every means available. During
the past year trade agreements have been ooncluded with
British India, Burma, and Turkoy. There wore also signed
in December a Treaty of Commerce with Siam and a supplementary
agreement to the Italo-Japanese Treety of Commerce relating
to the Italian colonies. Negotiations are now in progress
with cther countries for the conclusicn of the necessary
trade agreemonts, covering both cld and new ms ets.
A boycott of Japanese goods has boen iritiated in certain
countries owing to misleading Chinese propagande concerning the
prosent Afrair and to the machinations of the Chinese who
reside

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
-14 -
reside there in large numbers. However, nowhere has it
developod into any serious proportions, thanks to the united
fforts of the Govornment and people and tho fair attitude
of the gon ral public in tho countries concorned.
The Japanoso Government believe it to be one of the
necessary conditions of the peace and harmony and the pro-
sperity of Japan, Manchoukuo and China, and consequently
of the entire world, to increase rationally the productive
power of those three countries, and to strengthen their
economic ties, and at the same time to prcmote their trade
with the rest cf the world. For the realization of this
purpose the Governsent ere now carefully preparing eppropriate
plans at homo and abroad.
Finelly I desire to say a few words on cultural work.
In order to promote international friondship and to bring
about a real peace among mankind it is necessory that nations
should fcrm intimato cultural bonds and cultivato a full
understanding of one another's ideals and aspirations. The
present

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
-15 -
present Affair is traceable in no small degrec tc Chinese
lack of understanding in this regard. If Japan and China are
to build up a lasting friendship, they should understand each
othor's national conditions and characteristics, and cc-
operate culturally acccrding to the fundomental spirit of
the Orient. Taking this standpeint, the Government intend to
carry on in China more intensively than heretofore the cultural
work which will serve as a foundation for the purmanont perce
end prospority of the twe nations. At the same time the
Government will not relax their culturel work slsewhore
since there is a special necd, in the foce of ths present
intemationel situation, of making other peoples better
acquaintod with our unique culture snd the national traits
of our puople who love justice and pe ce.
I hope that from whot I have now saic you heve beon able
to understand the viows of the Govornmont reg rding the
present China Affair nd foreign quustiens in generel. In
brief, the undorlying cim of the foroign policy of the Gevern-
ment is to eradicate tho root of ovil in East Asie, to make
known

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
-16 -
known throughout the world the justice of cur cause, and to
contribute toward laying the foundetions of world paace. To
gat end the Government ere doing their very utmost. And I
trust thet you will appreciate the intentions of the Govern-
mont and will extend your co-operation for the attcinment of
the objectives of our foreign policy in deeling with the
grave emergency thet confronts the ution today.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
D98n
February 24, 1938.
Tokyo's No. 2763, February 4, 1938,
entitled "73rd Ordinary Session of the
Diet, January 22, 1938", encloses trans-
lations of the Foreign Minister's replies
to questions at the Diet's meetings on
Jenuary 25, 26, 28 and 29. These replies
(except Enclosure 3, which was carried in
American pepers, re war in China not be-
ing a. war because relations of Chine and
Japan cannot be regulated by war, supply
of munitions by western countries via
Hong Kong, et cetera) are important and
should be read carefully as they reveal
Japan's true intentions in China. Among
these intentions are:
"It is the fact that with Eng-
land numerous problems continue to
arise. However, the Asiatic situa-
tion can be ascribed entirely to
Asiatic destiny. .... In the long
run the important problem for Jepan
is how to regulate its relations
with foreign powers in China after
the incident."
"with respect to (our coun-
try's losses in China) ... it goes
without saying thet as all these
losses are the result of present
actions of the Chinese, we are
adopting a policy of receiving
indemnities for the entire emount
from

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
from the Chinese."
"(Re Kiaochow-Tsinan Reilway)
I am well aware ... that the feeling
of the Jepanese people is the same
(as thet of Mr. Kotani, the ques-
tioner, who wants the Railway brought
back to the state it was in prior
to the return of Shentung forced on
Japan). Applause"
"(Shantung) With regard to the
future we intend to ... come forward
with e solution which will follow
as far as possible the anticipation
of the people".
"(Culturel enterprises) As
there are many to be undertaken it
1s the intention of the Foreign Of-
fice to await the various facilities
set up in the occupied area ... I am
of the opinion that this (repair of
Confucius' Tomb) is a splendid idea,
but this is not included in the
present plan ... As apart from Con-
fucius' Tomb there are many old
buildings which represent pure
Oriental culture, we are undertaking
a research in this direction as well."
"(Opium) ... since annexing
Taiwan Japan has amassed consider-
able

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
able amount of research on the sub-
ject of opium which can be used for
reference purposes in China in the
future."
"(Inner Mongolia) We intend to
extend every aid to this govern-
ment."
FE:Langdon:VCI

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 4, 1938.
No. 2763.
SUBJECT:
73RD ORDINARY SESSION OF THE DIET,
JANUARY 22, 1938.
ON/D
894.032/185
cop
ATE
938    30
SOOW
AND RDS
JO AIC
Divsion o
B
FAR EASLR AA
.3
DT
The Honorable
ADVISER
MR. HORN ECK
MAR 2 - 1938
793.94
The Secretary of State,
MAR 4 - 1933
Washington,
FILFD
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the 73rd ordinary
F/A
session of the Diet which was opened on January 22, 1938,
1/2/3/4/5/6 and to enclose free translations made by the Embassy of
the principal replies to interpellations on foreign affairs
R  A
made in open session up to the present time.
ASISA SE
OF STA
Respectfully yours,
A/M-V
Joseph C. Grew.
803
PAS:C
Ehclosures:
1/2/3/4/5/6 As stated above.
n

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2763 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation from a Kampo Gogai
(OFFICIAL GAZETTE EXTRA of January 25, 1938).
8:0
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Koki Hirota:
In reply to Mr. Muira's interpellation, as the result
of the occurrence of the present important incident in
Asia a number of problems have been unavoidably raised
not only with China directly, but with third countries
as well. Mr. Muira cites as an example that of England.
It is a fact that with England numerous problems continue
to arise. However, the Asiatic situation can be ascribed
entirely to Asiatic destiny. It seems to me that England
is regulating its relations with China and with Japan on
the basis of daily incidents occurring at the present
time. It is our hope that she does not follow such a
short-sighted policy. In the long 'run the important
problem lying before Japan is how to regulate its re-
lations with foreign Powers in China after the incident.
Since the outbreak of the incident the Government has on
every opportunity appealed to the Chinese and given them
every chance to reflect. At length, as she refused even
the final opportunity given her the Government determined
upon the attitude recently announced. During this time
there were also among various foreign Powers, countries
who were mindful that if possible the quick settlement
of the situation in Asia would be to the advantage of both
Japan and China as well as the Powers themselves. In
these cases the view was expressed to them that if China
aotually

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
actually reflected, and refleoting, reached a frame of
mind whereby she would negotiate with Japan directly,
Japan would accede to this without the slightest objection.
As a result of the above, Germany approached Japan for
its various ideas on direct negotiation. To this we
stated "if China would sue for peace on the basis of the
four provisions announced during this session of the Diet,
Japan would respond. However, an ordinary verbal explana-
tion would not do. She must actually demonstrate in fact
the anti-communist spirit. Furthermore, she must send
a peace delegation to a place specified by Japan, in which
case Japan would accept". These details were announced
for the first time in the present session of the Diet.
It is true that the contents of the talks with the Chinese
through Germany as an intermediary gave rise from time to
time to various false reports circulated at will by the
Chinese throughout the world. However, as the intermedia-
tion of Germany had as its condition precedent that Germany
should work in secret the two governments desired to make
the announcements on the day when it became clear that the
work would end in failure. Up to that time various false
reports had been coming into Japan. Circulation of these
false reports were by no means beneficial to the negotiations
with China in general, and therefore for that reason and
from other considerations the announcement was withheld
for the time being. Of course, it is proper to announce
matters which are of a public character. However, there
are always in foreign affairs many things falling under
the

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
the category of secrets. The Foreign Office has tried
earnestly with considerable forebearance to announce
officially a certain degree of material. However, as
this is an important problem not only affecting the
progress of negotiations up to this date but also general
negotiations with China in the future it has been the
policy, in order to avoid as far as possible misunder-
standing among the Japanese people, to await the opening
of today's Diet to explain the circumstances.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 2763 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation from a Kampo Gogai (OFFICIAL GAZETTE EXTRA)
of January 25, 1938.
8:o
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Koki Hirota:
Mr. Miyazawa in his interpellation stated that as a
result of the present incident there was a tendency to
sacrifice the foundation which had been built up in the
past by the sufferings of a large number of Japanese to
the gradual influx since the incident of large entrepreneurs.
The first point in his interpellation was what policy the
Government had toward this. While in the relations of
Japan and China after the incident various phenomena dif-
ferent than hitherto are bound to arise I believe that
the most important point is to restore the groundwork
obtained by our countrymen in the past. Consequently
in those areas which have with the progress of the Army
become settled full attention is being paid to encouraging
the return of our countrymen where they have hitherto had
headquarters and to the restoration of their former position
and the protection of their interests. As a result of
the incident our countrymen in China have suffered con-
siderable losses up to the present time. With respect
to the second point as to how this is to be handle d it
goes without saying that all these losses are the result
of the present actions of the Chinese and we are adopting
a policy of receiving indemnities for the entire amount
from the Chinese. Also the Government recognizes the need
for considerable temporary relief for these countrymen and
is studying methods in that direction at the present time.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch
No. 2763 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation from a Kampo Gogai (OFFICIAL GAZETTE EXTRA)
of January 26, 1938.
s:c
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Koki Hirota:
The first point in the present interpellation was
a question of the significance of calling the present
Sino-Japanese relations an incident and not a war. As
is well-known, the present trouble arose from the Lukowkiao
Bridge incident, became gradually aggravated until it
turned into a general conflict. Up to the present time,
if we look at the situation between Japan and China, it
is clearly a great struggle, for the Far East an extra-
ordinary struggle. However, as you know, the situation
in the Far East is not one like that of Europe based on
concepts of international law. Speaking from racial as
well as other considerations the relations of these two
countries cannot be regulated by war. Actually Japan has
from the outset of this incident announoed that it was
combatting the anti-Japanese movement as represented by
the Chiang régime and the military cliques. On the one
hand there has arisen in North China a Government which,
friendly to Japan, is adopting a joint anti-communist
policy. Arguing from this standpoint it is beyond need
of proof that the relations between China and Japan are
not a war in which the Chinese Government and its people
are looked upon as enemies. Ordinarily, according to the
dictates of international law, in the oase of war it is
usual to make a declaration of war at the outset or
later. As a result of the deolaration of war it is
customary

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
customary for third countries to assume the obligations
of neutrals. In the present situation in the Far East
the advantages and disadvantages of the application of
the principles of international law to this situation
must be considered carefully. In the light of the
situation in China and in international relations we
have not yet taken the step of declaring war. However,
depending on developments this step may become necessary.
Consequently it is unnecessary to repeat that both in-
ternally and externally the present struggle is in fact
a war. Accordingly, the question of the steps to be
taken at the termination are the same as those of war.
If we look at the attitude of the Chinese National
Government up to the present time we see that it lacked
entirely any sincere intention to negotiate with Japan
and we therefore severed all international intercourse
with it. However, from the standpoint of actual fact,
the relations between Japan and China must be fostered.
Having reached this stage, Japan with extraordinary de-
termination is urging the reflection of all China and
is building everlasting peace in the Far East. Japan
cannot lend an ear to effort by a third Power to inter-
vene at this time. I can hardly imagine there would
be such a third country. However, with respect to rela-
tions between China and third countries in the past
there are a number of countries which have had very
many oultural or material interests in China. Consider-
able reflection is necessary as to what degree these
countries

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
countries will maintain the interests they have had in
China up to the present time. Should, through the action
of a third country, there result aid being given to China
this will only serve to prolong the incident and would have
a deplorable effect on the restoration of peace in the Far
East, to be sure, - nay, on the restoration of peace in
the world. We are trying to get the various countries to
understand fully the present situation in the Far East and
to adopt policies in conformity with the new situation.
In this respect in the past in the relation between China
and third countries it is a fact that there have been such
things as the supplying of armaments. It appears in the
majority of cases that third countries and China, not
being subject to the restrictions of laws of neutrality,
regard this trade in arms as undertaken purely as a com-
mercial transaction. However, this is a matter of theory.
Actually, those countries with kindly intentions, desiring
a quick solution of the present situation, restoration of
the peace in the Far East, and maintenance of world peace,
are for the most part restricting voluntarily the supply-
ing of arms. Those who are not so doing have had the sit-
uation explained to them and have had attention called to
this fact. Various countries are cited and we often are
asked which country is the principal supplier of armaments.
Recently, in a communication received from England, it
has been explained that in Hong Kong, which is supposed
to be the principal import source of arms to China, at
the present time the armaments of English manufacture
ocoupy but a small portion of the whole. We must recog-
nize that almost the entire amount comes from other
countries.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
countries. To look upon this as an act of commercial
character and to simply stand with folded arms can only
result in the prolongation of the present trouble between
Japan and China and I am constantly calling this to the
attention of various foreign countries, the countries
concerned. As the situation develops I believe that
these countries can be made to have a more comprehensive
understanding, particularly as a result of making clear
our attitude that we would have nothing to do with Chiang
Kai-shek, that with a different administration as the
center we would assist in the reconstruction of China,
I believe that the businessmen of various countries who
have been supplying armaments to the National Government
for purely profit motives will reflect seriously. This
will constitute my answer to the above interpellation.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to despatch
No. 2763 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation from a Kampo Gogai (OFFICIAL GAZETTE EXTRA)
of January 28, 1938.
s:c
The Minister for ForeignAffairs, Mr. Koki Hirota:
I am replying to Mr. Ikeda's interpellation. The
present incident arose from various causes. One of the
principal causes has been the lack of cultural contact
between the Japanese and Chinese peoples-up to this time
as I indicated in my address some days ago. Consequently
I am of the opinion that it is proper to exert even greater
efforts in cultural enterprises in the future. For a
number of years practically no attention was paid to
these cultural enterprises in China. In order to provide
the resources for this the capital sum of about Yen 20,000,000
obtained with difficulty from China as indemnity and from
other sources were used as a base and with the interest
from this the Foreign Office carried on these enterprises.
This was truly a temporizing policy, however, and the 20
million yen was not only insignificant, but this enterprise
was not of a character to be operated in such a way. Never-
theless this policy had to be followed because of the times.
It is my belief that such a policy will from this day on-
ward be by no means adequate. Consequently with respect
to the method to be followed in the future, first of all
in regard to North China, the military and other authorities
stationed there are to cooperate fully with the adminis-
tration set up by the Chinese in establishing educational
faoilities and other cultural institutions in the North
China region. The Foreign Office with respect to the
inorease in expenses for cultural enterprises at the
present

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
present time has set up a plan, corresponding to the
needs of the times, calling for considerable expansion
and hopes for additional funds required in this direction.
These measures are not all that the Foreign Office in-
tends to do in the way of cultural enterprises but repre-
sent only a part. As there are many cultural enterprises
to be undertaken it is the intention of the Foreign Office
to await the various facilities set up in the occupied area
and also to give mature deliberation to other methods.
With reference to the suggestion thet as a part of the
cultural enterprises in China Confucius's Tomb be repaired,
I am of the opinion that this is a splendid idea. This
work is not included in the present plan and it is a
problem which will require considerable thought and
money. As aside from Confucius's Tomb there are many
other very old buildings which represent pure Oriental
culture, we are undertaking research in this direction
as well. Furthermore, as one part of the present cul-
tural enterprises study is being undertaken of the four
treasures of Chinese learning. Considerable thought has
been given to the question of the printing of this mater-
ial. In any case we intend to give it further considera-
tion upon the completion of the studies of the four
treasures of Chinese learning now being undertaken. I
am in sincere agreement with the opinion expressed that
in cultural contacts withChina the study of opium, par-
ticularly the problem of informing the Chinese people
of its vicious effects, is of most importance. According
to my observations Japan has since annexing Taiwan amassed
a

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
a considerable amount of research on the subject of opium
which can be used for reference purposes in China in the
future.
It may be for the above reasons that the natural
science laboratories in Shanghai have not recognized par-
ticularly the necessity for research in this direction.
I believe my reply will cover for the most part Mr. Ikeda's
interpellation.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 6 to despatch
No. 2763 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation from a Kampo Gogai (OFFICIAL GAZETTE EXTRA)
of January 29, 1938.
s:6
The Minister for ForeignAffairs, Mr. Koki Hirota:
With respect to the problem of Inner Mongolia the
gist of the matter was contained for the most part in
the reply of the Prime Minister. In Suiyan-Chahar the
inhabitants up to the present time held the hope of
throwing off many years of Chinese bondage and establish-
ing an autonomous system of Government. It is a matter
of considerable delight that on the basis of these as-
pirations the autonomous government of Suiyan-Chahar has
come into being, and that we can witness its remarkable
progress. Particularly the development of this inde-
pendent government on a pro-Japanese anti-Comintern
basis is not only a fine influence in our own relations
with it but also is fine for the peace of the world.
We intend to extend every aid to this Government. Its
future development will be awaited with considerable
anticipation. Although the relations between the ad-
ministration established in that area and North China or
the whole of China in the future must await the develop-
ment of the situation in general I believe the inhabitants
of this area, in accordance with wishes held up to the
present time, will develop a separate existence. I think
I have answered the principal points in yesterday's inter-
pellation.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to despatch
No. 2763 dated February 4, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation from a Kampo Gogai (OFFICIAL GAZE
of January 28, 1938.
s:c
one that has
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ko
In reply to Mr. Otani's interpellation,
using every available meanat
views on cultural enterprises are fitting ind
of the execution of Genenal Han
chu for propaganda purposes
of the ways in which the Chin
of the opinion that they contain much informa
be made to realize the sort of
and by which sympathy with
ticular attention will be paid to these point
regard to the Kiaochow-Tsinan
way, it is necessary at least ta
taking cultural enterprises. With respect to
it back to the state it was f
(KieodT
to the returh of Shangtung forced
Japan."-
opinion on the problem of the Kosai railroad
Taking up the misery of the Jai
residents of Tsingtao who had
drawn, he said: "Half of the
course, a particularly natural one for anyone
sibility for this lies with the Go
ment. The Government shouldd
resided in Shantung for a long time. I am al
fortunate people. What is the opin
of the Foreign Minister?"
Foreign Minister Replies
aware of the fact that the feeling of the Jap
The stenographic account of For
Minister Hirota's reply follows:
"The views of Mr. Kotani on
people in general is the same. (Applause).
Kiaochow-Tsinan Railway issue
quite reasonable, seeing they, are
to the present outrages on the part of the Ch
I think they fairly well reflect
of a veteran resident of Shantung
general sentiment of the people.
Shantung, Japan has been indeed long sufferin
"Japan has -been extremely
and forbearing in the face, of the
among
rages committed by the Chine
with regard to this point that not only/the
Shantung. I have noted that not
Chinese but other Powers of the
it is realized
felt that Japan's forbearance wasra
in every country of the world/that Japan show
exceeding its bounds. Consequently
is our intentidn to take those 
forbearance. Consequently with regard to the
ment of the Shangtung affair in
that the expectations of the people
be fulfilled.
Shantung we intend to give consideration to t
"The Government is keenly
the need of giving every assi
those who have long carried
mentioned and to come forward with a solution
terprises in the Shangtung are
able them to recover their lost
(Continued on Fage
follow so far as possible the anticipation of
JAPAN ADVERTING
Furthermore, with regard to those who have re
Jan.>5,143
long time in the Shantung region and have eng
enterprises there it is the Government's intention to
give aid to the restoration of those enterprises. Ac-
cordingly, appropriate study is being given to the
means to that end at the present time. Certain methods
will be selected and actual aid and assistance will be given.
The above will form my reply to Mr. Otani.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./121
SEE
FOR
Despatch #2735
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED.Jan...18..1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.032/
REGARDING:
The 73rd Session of the Diet was formally opened by the Emperor
on December 26 with the reading of an Imperial Rescript: Domei's
translation quoted; on following day copies of 1938-39 draft
budget, as approveu by Cabinet, were distributed to members of
86
both Houses of Diet; Diet was ad journed on December 27 for the
customary New Year recess until January 20.
M

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
6621
JWB
EG
TELEGRAM RECEVED
D
TREATY DIVISION
Tokyo
TD
e1B
OPIES SENT TO
Dated March 19,1938
FROM
MAR 25 1938
LAND MLD
REc'd 8:0B a.m.
1e file
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SEcritary of StatE,
Washington.
PAR EASTEHN ALFAINS
186, March 19, 6 p.m.
894.032
793.94
NOTS
This morning's press reports that thE collowing
views werE Expressed by thE Foreign Minister yesterday
at a sEssion of thE LowEr HousE budgEt committEE:
894.032/187
(1) ThE NinE Power Treaty is of only nominal
ExistencE inasmuch as many of its provisions havE
500.A4D
never bEEn fulfillEd. Abrogation of thE treaty is to
bE ExpEcted at an appropriatE timε.
(2) Japan has no territorial designs in China.
This howEvEr is not a consEquEncE of thE trEaty; it is
based upon thE functioning of Japan-China rElations.
(3) In timE thE Provisional GovernmEnt of China
will comE to bE rEcognizEd by thE powErs. Japan is
goot
doing all it can to assist thE regimE but recognition
MAR 3 1 1938
FILED
by Japan now would bE prematurE.
(4) Japan's withdrawal from thE International
500.C115
Labor OfficE will perhaps comE about.
(5) With thE Permanent Court of International
F/FG
JusticE thE ForEign Minister intends to maintain thE
relations now Existing.
GREW
RR:CSB

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
Tel #38, 5pm
SEE
793.94/12314a
FOR
DATED
Feb41938
894.032/
Japan
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japanese withdrawal of recognition
REGARDING:
of Chinese National Government; possible declaration of war
by Japan.
Statements attributed to Japanese Foreign Minister and to
08
Prince Konoye in the Diet: quotes from press accounts of
8
certain-,
FRG.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 21, 1938.
Tokyo's despatch no. 2850 of
March 31 reviews the 73d session of
the Japanese Diet and lists the
titles of the 86 bills passed at
this session. You may be interested
in the first 2 1/2 pages of this
despatch.
FE:Penrield:HES

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGAL ADVISER
4
W1938
RECHEFOREIGN SERVICE
bE
OFPARTMENT OF SOATHE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1938 APR 18 PM 2 07
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
No. 2850
AND RECORDS
Tokyo, March 31, 1958.
SUBJECT:
SEVENTY-THIRD JAPANESE DIET.
DT
894.032
tirde
Fur
ONI-MID
894.032/139
Division of
FAR EASTEAN AFFMINS
B
AAPR 1 51938
Department of State
petis
G42
The Honorable
APR 2 9 1938
Sedretary of State
FILED
Jashington.
Sir:
F/A
The seventy-third session of the Japanese Diet came
to a close (except for formalities the following day) labe..
on March 26, 1958, a few minutes after the passage of the
electric power bill, the last of the Government bills. The
session is notable for the completeness of its support for
the Government's legislative program and for the sweeping
authority
1(

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
authority extended to the Government by the bills enacted.
Not all the new laws have yet been promulgated, but the
general accomplishments of the session can nevertheless briefly
be reviewed.
The most importent legislation offered to the session
was that which was enacted in the mobilization law (despatches
2800, March 3, 1938 and 2815, March 18, 1938). Mext most
important was the electric power bill (despatch 2848, March 31,
1938). Detailed report of the electric power law must await
fuller knowledge of its text, which has not yet been published.
In spite of amendments to the original bill, the law embodies
the basic provision for the setting up of a state-controlled
electric power company in which private electric interests are
forced to be invested in return for a government-guaranteed
four percent dividend. Appraisement is of course a vital
question in such a plan; it was around the question of appraise-
ment that opposition and discussion centered, and it was here
that compromise was necessary. As in the instance of the
mobilization bill, what commenced as concerted opposition rapidly
weakened, and the final favorable vote was almost unanimous.
It is not improbable that this change of front was the result
of some oral commitment (which will not appear as an essential
modification of the law) by which the private electric interests
believe themselves assured of a better price. The law is not
due for enforcement until a year hence, according to report.
An amusing expulsion of a member from the House of Repre-
sentatives grew out of words used by lir. Suehiro Nishio, of
NB
the Shakai Taishuto (social mass party), in the House on March
16. Correctly appraising the present tenor of Japanese public
opinion as favoring centralized authority and the submerging
of

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
of partizan interests, the Shakai Taishuto decided to
climb on the band wagon by having Nishio express the
hope that the non-party premier, Prince Konoe, will go
forward with boldness and determination, like Mussolini,
Hitler, or Stalin. Mussolini and Hitler are on the
approved list, and there was no difficulty over those names;
but there was an uproar over mention of Stalin. Amid
impressive theatricals Nishio was expelled. It was just
the chance the Seiyukai and Minseito were looking for,
to even scores for the Shakai Taishuto's unwillingness
to play politics over the mobilization bill. In the debate
on the disciplinary action, Mr. Yukio Ozaki, the well known
liberal, made a notable address in favor of free speech, but
when the question came to vote in committee he abstained.
Premier Konoe has emerged from the session in a power-
0F
ful and popular position. ie continues to bring to the
Government exactly the advantage for which he was raised to
the office just before the commencement of hostilities in China,
and for which his independent career qualifies him: general
support above factional differences.
Various budget bills of the seventy-third session of the
Diet carried appropriations totalling nearly eight billion
yen (partly reported in despatches 2819, Larch 18, 1938 and
2826, March 19, 1938). Legislation passed comprises eighty-six
laws (designated as Law 1 of 1938, Law 2 of 1938, etc.) on
the following subjects:
1. Mobilization (despatch 2800, March 3, 1958).
2.
North China development company.
3.
Central China development company.
4.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
4. Cultural enterprises in China.
5.
Health insurance.
6.
City building.
7.
General budget bond issues.
8.
Manchurian incident bond issues.
9.
Mint construction.
10.
China conflict bond issues.
11.
Chosen enterprises bond issues.
12.
Armament financing.
13.
Emergency taxation.
14.
Income tax.
15.
Succession tax.
16.
Registration tax.
17.
Liquor tax.
18.
Alcohol tax.
19.
Beer tax.
20.
Income tax enforcement.
21.
Mutual credit financing.
22.
Extraordinary profits tax.
23.
Profits tax enforcement.
24.
Tax collection.
25.
China conflict loans.
26. .China conflict transfer accounts.
27. Supplementary budget loans.
28.
Foreign loans.
29.
Negotiable instrument transactions.
30.
Temporary currencies.
31.
Customs tariff.
32.
Trusts.
33.
Government printing office funds.
34. Manchurian incident compensation.
35.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
35. General account loans.
36.
Bank note issue.
37.
Conscription.
38.
Military service.
39.
Court martial.
40.
Commercial code.
41.
Commercial code enforcement.
42.
Corporations.
43. Civil code.
44.
Civil procedure.
45.
Cooperation with foreign courts.
46.
Courts.
47.
Jurisdiction.
48.
Immovable property.
49.
Industrial guilds.
50.
Fisheries.
51.
Industrial guilds compensation.
52.
Industrial guilds autonomy.
53.
Agricultural insurance.
54.
Fodder supply.
55.
Sulphate ammonia production.
56.
Agricultural debts.
57.
Patent law.
58.
Trade mark law.
59.
Unfair competition.
60.
Attorneys.
61.
Foreign trade.
62.
Commercial guilds.
63.
Mineral production.
64.
Gold company.
65.
Oil exploitation.
66.
Industrial machinery production.
67.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
67. Airplane manufacture.
68. Karafuto railways.
69. Oriental development company.
70. Social enterprises.
71. Commercial enterprises.
72. Government life insurance.
73. Intelligence.
74. Employment of persons in military service.
75. Pension finances.
76. Pensions.
77. Treasury regulations.
78. Special China conflict taxation.
79. Judicial cooperation in anchuria.
80. Rice cultivation.
81. Brokerage.
82. Communications enterprises.
83. Electric power control (aespatch 2848, March S1,1938)
84. Electric power company.
85. Electric power debentures.
86. Electric business.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure: Clipping, "Fruits of the 73rd Diet,"
JAPAN TIMES, March 28, 1938.
803
CC:s
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, to despatch
No. 2850 , dated March 311938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Monday, March 28, 1938.
that in the Cabinet there was a
Fruits Of The 73rd Diet
strong demand to dissolve the
House of Representatives if it op-
The 73rl sessian of the Im-
posed the electricity control bills
perial :Djet, just ended, was one
and that this caused the members
of the most important sessions in
to make concessions. Again it is
the history of the Japanese Diet.
said that the members of political
There were passed 87 Govern-
parties were influenced by the
ment bills, among which were
decision of their leaders to sup-
many of vital importance.
port the Government.
The budgets approved total
Any one of those causes, or all
¥7,930,000,000, an unprecedented
of them, might have brought about
figure. This huge hudget was of
the passage of the bills. But at
course made necessary by the
the same time, the discussions in
present China Incident. It in-
the Diet were not useless, as they
creased the burden of the people,
explained to the public the nature
but at the same time reveals
and purposes of these important
Japan's firm defermination to con-
bills. The Government itself has
tinue fighting, however long the
profited greatly by the criticism.
Incident may last, and thus may
After fully examining the electri-
have discouraged Chiang Kai-shek,
city control bills, the Diet 'mem-
who believes Japan's finance will
bers made the revisions they be-
be crippled by a protracted war.
lieved necessary in the interests
Tax increases are proposed to
of the, nation and people.
meet part of the huge expenditures.
Premier Konoye's hasic principle
'There was heated discussion of
is to remove all conflicts in the
the national mobilization and
country, and the success of the
electricity control bills in both
73rd Diet has proved to some ex-
Houses. At first it appeared im-
tent that he has suceeeded,,But
possible to have the bills approved
different views is nof to be con-
by-the-Diet because of the strong
sidered confrontation or conflict.
objections. From the Constitution-
Different opinions in the' Diet
al viewpoint, the two bills were
serve only to improve the bills and
most severely criticized. But
increase the public understanding
finally the national mobilization
of the subjects under discussion.
bil-as apppozed without revision,
The 73rd' session of the Diet has
and the electricity control bills
accomplished much, due to the
with only. small revisions.
sincere recognition of the nation's
For this apparently strange de-
present condition by the Govern-
velopment, there are various ex-
ment and the Diet. The public now
planations. One is that it is the
desires only that the laws approv-
realization of the importance of
ed by the Diet be executed fairly
national unity and support of the
and justly, with the welfare of the
Government that prompted the
nation and peopleas the aim.
members finally to yield to the
Government's wish, Another is

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.92)
85
CHARGE SLIP
550.51
File No.
ENCLOBURE
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARkS
59
kon12/4/44mm
189
1244
PRINTING OFFICE 1-1433

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/839
FORTel#44.7_p.m.
894.032/
SEE
FROM
Japan
(.Grew
DATEDJan.24.1939.
TO
NAME
1—1127
190
REGARDING:
Interpellations in the House of Peers and the
Lower House in Japan, concerning conflict
with China, the Budget, and discussions of
foreign policy: Report concerning-.
aa
1

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 3, 1939
Tokyo's despatch 3808 of April 6, 1939,
entitled "74th Sess1on of the Japanese Diet",
summarizes the accomplishments and
significance of the recent Diet session.
Accomplishments: passing of budgets totaling
almost ten billion yen and passing of a number
of important bills, which will be reported on
separately by the Embassy. Significance:
although the Diet did not oppose the Govern-
ment in any way, it is a moot question whether
the political parties lost or gained during
the session; the parties received public
pledges that their existence would be respected
and that the present leglslative system would
be retained; there were fewer demands heard
at the end of the session than at the outset
for a single-party system; the position of the
parties vis-a-vis the public 1s no worse than
previously; and whether the parties will ever
again assume an important position in
Japanese politics is open to conjecture.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
THEFOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
EA
DEPARTMENPCPSTATE
90 NY ?
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 6, 1939.
No. 3808.
SUBJECT: 74TH SESSION OF THE JAPANESE DIET.
894.032/191
ONI
DT
Cofly in FE
Diveston of
OFFICE OF THE ADNISE
AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
INTERNATIONAL ECON AEFAIRS
874.032
GLJUN-91939
894.044
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Deoartmept pf State
ASSISIANT SECRETARY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
CF STATE
I
Washington.
FILED
have the honor to report that the 74th Session
he Japanese Diet which was convened on December 26,
1938, came to a close on Sunday, March 26, 1939.] It was
F/A
the third (second regular) session of the Diet to be
convened since the outbreak of hostilities in China in
1937.
The

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The session, dubbed by the vernacular press "the
Asie Promotion Diet" was noteworthy for the fact that it
passed without serious protest all the measures introduced by
the Government and accomplished this task without the ex-
tensions in the date of closing which had almost become a
part of the regular Japanese Diet session. Early in the
Funa
session, it will be recalled, the Konoye Cabinet fell and
kiichiro
was replaced by that of Baron Hiranuma, the present Prime
Minister, by reputation a reactionary. Paradoxically enough,
OBF
the session displayed greater harmony under the guidance of
Baron Hiranuma than under that of his predecessor, Konoye,
who had become inextricably entangled in the single party
movement and the movement for reform of the Cabinet system.
Prime Minister Hiranuma, jettisoning all plans for reform
and pledging himself at the outset to a retention of the
Cabinet system, was able to obtain the ready sanction of
the Diet for a budget totalling almost ten billion yen, the
largest in Japan's history, and for some 89 bills, many of
considerable importance. Only eleven of these bills were
amended by the Diet, and then only slightly and with the
assent of the Government. The session was characterized
by the large number of meetings held in secret, ostensibly
and possibly to prevent leakage of matters dealing with
the China campaign but probably partly as a strategical
measure to avoid open friction with the Diet members.
The Prime Minister, Baron Hiranuma, commenting on the
work of the 74th Session of the Diet, declared that the
world had been shown "the solid fabric of which our nation
is made". The full text of his remarks as reported by Domei
1/
is enclosed with this despatch.
Interpellations

=== Page 110 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
Interpellations during the course of the session were
conspicuously few and mild in character, members confining
themselves largely to demands for a stronger foreign policy
vis-à-vis the Soviet Union and third Powers in China, and
to expressions of hope that the Government would carry out
in a satisfactory manner the mandate it had been given by
them. The principal interpellations on foreign affairs and
the replies thereto were reported in the Embassy's despatch
No. 3656, February 10, 1939, entitled "Report on Conditions
in Japan during the month of January", and in despatch No. 3742,
March 13, 1939, entitled "Report on Conditions in Japan during
the month of February, 1939." Interpellators on domestic af-
fairs gave not a little attention to the problem of adminis-
trative reforms, some of the more extreme advocating a gen-
eral reformation of the capitalistic structure and the annihi-
lation of all individualistic and liberalistic thought.
Eventually a petition, unsupported by the major parties, was
presented to the Prime Minister, demanding a strengthening
of the anti-Comintern Pact into a military alliance and the
reform of the administrative system. The group representing
this line of thought received little satisfaction from the
Government, however, the Home Minister, Marquis Kido, point-
ing out in reply that since the February 26 incident ideologies
had been running far ahead of realities. From time to time
both he and the Prime Minister, Baron Hiranuma, assured the
74th Diet that it was the Government's intention to work with
the existing system. As a sequel to a series of unsuccessful
merger movements one of the most outspoken advocates of a
single party system, Mr. Seigo Nakano, resigned his member-
ship in the Diet. His resignation was generally interpreted
to mean that a single party system was still far from realiza-
tion.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
tion. Criticism of the Government for a haphazard system
of taxation was not infrequent during the session. The
interpellators appeared content, however, with the as-
surances of the Government that many of the tax arrange-
ments were provisional and temporary in character and that
the Government would undertake a study of tax reforms.
Other criticisms centered on the bureaucratic character of
the Government, a cry which has been heard unremittingly
for the past ten years. The bone of greatest contention
in this respect has been the enormous increase in the
number of Government bureaus and officials and the employ-
ment of retired Government officials as officers in the
so-called "national policy" companies (semi-Government
organs) which are in vogue at the present time. In reply
to interpellations the Government indicated in the session
under review that the reform of town and village adminis-
trative systems was under contemplation, the China incident
having created many problems for which the present systems
are not equipped. Relief for the agrarian crisis and the
hard-pressed white collar workers was likewise a frequent
subject for debate. However, the Government had already
worked out specific measures designed to meet these situations
and did no more than indicate in a general way what it had
in mind. While several interpellators cautioned the Govern-
ment to keep a proper balance between war-time and peace-
time industries, it was obvious that they expected little
satisfaction, the tide already running too swiftly in the
other direction.
The

=== Page 112 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
The various budgets passed by the Diet are as
follows:
1. Basic General Accounts Budget....... Y3,694,666,000
2. First Supplementary Budget for the
Army and Navy Defense Programs....
910,543,000
3. Second Supplementary Budget....
199,332,000
4. China Incident Budget......
4,605,000,000
Of the eighty-nine bills passed by the 74th session of
the Diet, the most important might be regarded as follows:
The Rice Distribution Control Law -- Creates in effect a
Government monopoly for the
distribution of rice with the
aim of putting Agriculture on
the same basis as other indus-
tries in keeping with the spirit
of the times.
Law for the Control of Religious Bodies -- Requires approv-
al of the Minister of Education
for the establishment of a religious
body; includes denominations al-
ready established. (See Embassy's
despatch No. 3722, March 1,1939).
Shipbuilding Industry Law -- Provides for the protection,
promotion, supervision, and con-
trol of the shipbuilding industry.
Law concerning supply of capital for
construction of ships and compensation
for losses
-- Permits a smoother supply of
funds to banks for ship construc-
tion purposes.
Japan Aviation Company Law -- Creates a semi-governmental air
transport company with authorized
cep ita1 of ¥100,000,000 for the
purpose of welding Japan, China,
and "Manchukuo" into a single air
transport unit.
Motion Picture Law --
Places the production and dis-
tribution of motion pictures under
governmental control.
Light metals manufacturing industry law -- Light metal com-
panies to be controlled and sub-
sidized by the Government in order
to expand production.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Law Revising the International Electrical
Communication Law
Increases Government invest-
ments in this concern for the purpose
of creating a net of communication over
Japan, China and "Manchukuo".
Imperial Mining Promotion Company - Creates a so-called
"national policy" company for the ex-
ploitation of minerals other than gold,
silver, iron, and coal.
Law Revising the China Incident Special Taxation Law --
Raises taxes on dividends, on interest
on public and other bonds, on soft drinks,
on stamps, and other miscellaneous ar-
ticles.
Law for the Protection of Military Resources Secrets -
Provides severe penalties for giving out
informaticn of any kind over a wide range
of articles for military use (see the
Embassy's despatch No. 3714, March 1,
1939).
Law Revising the Special Profit Taxes -- Taxes profits on the
transfer of mining and shipping rights
from January 1, 1939.
Special Account Law pertaining to the Purchase
of Provisional Military Materials -- Provides for direct
purchase by the militery in China of mater-
ials needed for reconstruction purposes.
Translations of laws of particular nterest to the United
States will be forwarded to the Department later. Most have
not yet been promulgated.
While the attitude of the 74th session of the Liet might
be described as servile because of its failure to oppose the
Government in any way, it must be borne in mind that the
Diet gave the Government early in 1938, in the National
General Mobilization Law, a mandate to economic, financial
and social measures -- even of the broadest nature -- to
carry out the campaign in China to a successful conclusion,
which would preclude any real opposition on the part of the
Diet

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Diet to government measures implementing that mandate.
Nevertheless, the Government continues to have dumped
into its lap by the Diet a fairly large number of impor-
tant problems, ordinarily requiring Diet sanction, upon
which that body can take no positive action. Whether the
political parties lost or gained during the recent Diet
session is a moot question. One cannot overlook a general
feeling among the articulate section of the Japanese public
that the Diet has become a rubber stamp for the Government.
A part of this feeling is no doubt a form of nostalgia, a
longing for the "good old days" when the people had a say
in the affairs of the Government through their representa-
tives -- a greater part of this feeling perhaps arises from
the fact that the Diet as at present employed is like the
slit in the tail of a Prince Albert coat: it has long
since outlived the purpose for which it was originally
intended. It is true that the parties are impotent; that
they tremble in fear of being called unpatriotic if they
oppose any measure proposed by the Government; and that
their leaders no longer make pronouncements on any subject
during the session as was the custom in the past. On the
other hand,the parties have received public pledges that
their existence would be respected and that the present
legislative system, including the Cabinet, would be retained;
and there were heard fewer demands for a single-party system
at the end of the session than at the outset. Their po-
sition vis-à-vis the public is certainly no worse than it
was

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
was before. Whether they will ever again assume an
important position in Japanese politics is open to
conjecture.
Respectfully yours,
Ypoeth 5. Jerm
803
FAS:C
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 3808 dated Apri1 6, 1939,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
STATEMENT BY PRIME MINISTER, BARON HIRANUMA, ON CONCLUSION
OF THE 74TH SESSION OF THE DIET
"The 74th Session of the Diet has ended smoothly. It
was opened very soon after the China Incident had entered the
new phase of construction, and it was extremely important for
the sake of settling the China affair.
"The various foreign nations have sought to gauge our
national strength and ascertain the trend of national opinion,
and so I am most happy to have seen all Diet members clearly
keeping in mind the gravity of the situation and, in the
discussion of the various matters before the Diet, manifest-
ing to the world the solid fabric of which our nation is
made.
"That a budget amounting to over ¥9,400,000,000,tax
increase plans, the rice distribution control bills, the
religious organizations bill and other important bills
have passed the Diet without a hitch shows that in this
wartime situation the entire people are united and that
their will to break through the difficulties has been re-
flected in the Diet. In the enforcement of the various
matters for which the Diet's consent has been obtained, we
will strive to assure their proper and effective application
in a manner befitting the emergency times.
"As the Emperor in His Majesty's Rescript enjoined us
at the opening ceremony, heightening of the national spirit
and development of the total strength of the nation are the
things which the entire people must keep uppermost in their
minds. For my part, my heart is set on discharging my heavy
responsibilities to the full."

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.93)
JR
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokyo via Shanghai & N.R.
Dated November 11, 1939
FROM
Recd 7:50 a.m.
A
Secretary of StatE,
PVA
TO
"ashington.
LD.
593, NovEmbEr 11, 4 pom.
m
Imperial ordinancE published yEsterday sEts
DEcEmber 23, 1939, as thE datE for thE convocation
of the 75th sEss1on of thE Imperial DiET.
GREW
894.032/192
WSB
NOV 16 1939
F
