894.5017 Economic Matters., Statistics, General., Japan, Cost Of Living., May 29, 1946 - June 23, 1948 (File 1642)
ID: 894.5017-1642   Pages: 7   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5017-economic-matters-statistics-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
MAY 29 1946

In reply refer to
JK

My dear Mr. Campbell:

Reference is made to our recent telephone conversation in which you have asked for information concerning the grades of antimony making up the exportable stock in Japan and also concerning ceiling price.

A recent cable from the Supreme Commander states "grade reported all 98.5 per cent or better." This is the only information at hand concerning these stocks.

With respect to price, discussions have been carried on between the appropriate sections of the State Department, the CPA, and the USCC. After reviewing the various going prices throughout the world, including the United States ceiling price, the current market prices in London, and prices being paid in various foreign procurement operations, it was decided that an equitable price for the Japanese antimony stocks would be 18.5 cents per lb., delivered New York City, or about 17.0 cents f.o.b. Japanese port.

Sincerely yours,

Roswell H. Whitman
Acting Chief,
Japanese and Korean Economic
Division

Mr. Douglass Campbell,
Raw Materials Section,
British Embassy,
1800 K St., N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

JK:WMB
5/28/46

IR
Cleared with Mr. Wendel

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
DE/2
JAN - 6 1948
To DEPARTMENT OF STATE 1947

UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN

UNCLASSIFIED

No. 1467

SUBJECT: Statements by Officials of the Price Control and Rationing Division of the Economic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.

The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose copy of an extract from a press release of December 13, 1947 containing the text of a statement made by Mr. N. A. Stitt, an official of the Price Control and Rationing Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters, at a meeting of fish and vegetable retailers in Tokyo.

There is also enclosed copy of the text of a statement in the premises made at a press conference on December 16 by Mr. H. F. Alber, Chief of the Price Control and Rationing Division. These statements and similar ones are being released at this time to direct attention to the newly established price and distribution controls on perishable foods which it is hoped will help achieve an equitable distribution of food to the Japanese people. The full text of the statement appeared in the Mainichi and Nippon Keizai and summaries were printed in the Asahi, Yomiuri, Jiji Shimpo and Tokyo Shimbun.

Enclosures:

1. Copy of the text of a statement by Mr. N. A. Stitt of the Price Control and Rationing Division, Economic and Scientific Section, GHA, SCAP, December 13, 1947.

2. Copy of the text of a statement by Mr. H. F. Alber, Chief of the Price Control and Rationing Division, December 16, 1947.

Original and oxalid to the Department

850
RHBushner:vr

894.5017/12-1947
CS/A
894.5017/12-1947
CS/AF
1947 JAN 2 11 0 30

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1467, dated December 19, 1947 from the
Acting Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject: Statements
by Officials of the Price Control and Rationing Division of the Economic
and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers."

COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office

1630
12 December 1947

Press Release:
-0-

SCAP OFFICIAL TELLS VEGETABLE AND FISH DEALERS THEIR COOPERATION
ESSENTIAL TO SUCCESS OF ENFORCEMENT CAMPAIGN FOR PERISHABLE FOODS

A SCAP Food Official today told a meeting of vegetable and
fish dealer representatives in Tokyo that their cooperation is
essential to the success of the government's present campaign to
enforce strictly price and distribution controls on perishable foods.

"Being between the producer and consumer," N. A. Stitt, Price
Control and Rationing Division, Economic and Scientific Section, ex-
plained, "you gentlemen are in a key position to assure the success
of this plan."

Stitt said the present plan was an outgrowth of a realization
by the Japanese Government that control of fish and vegetables as
well as that of staple foods is essential to the economy of the
country.

"The government understands," he added, "control of rice alone
is not the answer to the food problems facing the Japanese."

Praising the enforcement drive as "greater than any the
government has previously undertaken," Stitt said that SCAP officials
were greatly encouraged by actions to date and that two regional
conferences had already been held with military government teams to
acquaint them fully with its workings.

-0-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 1467, dated December 19, 1947 from the
Acting Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject: "Statements
by Officials of the Price Control and Rationing Division of the Economic
and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers."

COPY

# PRESS CONFERENCE

Statement by

H. F. ALBER, Chief, Price Control &amp; Rationing Division

Economic &amp; Scientific Section

on

Control of Fish &amp; Vegetables

Tokyo, 16 December 1947

Fish and vegetables are an essential part of the Japanese diet
and in view of the critical food shortage, they must be effectively
controlled to guarantee fair distribution to all of the Japanese
people at official prices.

This requirement is implicit in Directive No. 3 issued by SCAP in
September 1945, which makes the Japanese Government responsible for the
equitable distribution at reasonable prices of essential commodities in
short supply.

The present distribution of fish and vegetables is not satisfactory
and prompt and substantial improvement can and must be secured.

The Japanese Government has undertaken a practical and comprehensive
plan to improve rationing and price controls on these foods all the way
from the farmers and fishermen to the housewife. This is a good program,
but it can be no more than a "paper plan" unless it is vigorously and
effectively carried out. Both national and local government officials
responsible for these controls must do their utmost to make the program
work. GHQ and the Eighth Army Military Government organization are
giving their full support and will assist in every way possible. However,
no plan can succeed unless it has the support and cooperation of
the general public.

The removal of controls over fish and vegetables will not be
possible until the general food supply improves substantially. The
basic cause of the present high prices and black markets is the scarcity
of food; emphasized by bungling operation of the control system. De-
control during this period of acute food shortage would not help the
wage earner or the salaried family. But it would cause even higher
prices and distribution would be governed entirely by ability to pay
these prices rather than by fairness or need. Proof of this is given
by the experience of November, 1945, when fish and vegetable controls
were removed. Prices rose fantastically and distribution became so
confused that it was necessary to reinstate rationing and price con-
trols in March, 1946.

The abolition of controls has been advocated by some as a means to
increase production of fish and vegetables. It is difficult to believe
that any real increase in production would result from this step because
fish catches are now close to normal despite a reduction in pre-war fish-
ing areas and the serious shortage of fishing gear. Furthermore, Japan's
limited arable land area is already being intensively exploited. An in-
crease in vegetable production through removal of controls could be achieved
only by diverting land, labor, and materials from the production of staple
foods in order to take advantage of high vegetable prices. True, this
would increase vegetable supplies but only at the expense of decreasing
the output of staple foodstuffs. This very fact is one of the reasons
vegetables must be kept under control as long as shortages of staple

foods

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2
to Tokyo's No. 1467,
December 19, 1947

-2-

foods continue.

The fishing industry of Japan is today operating largely on imported petroleum products and farmers are receiving a significant part of their fertilizer supply from abroad. In requesting and accepting these materials the fishermen and farmers must also assume the responsibility for their proper use to increase the food supply for all the people. If the importation of these supplies is to be continued, they must not be allowed to contribute to food blackmarkets.

The real service to the country being rendered by most food producers is fully recognized and we are aware of the difficulties to be met by the fishermen, farmers and distributors in face of the many hardships which prevail in Japan today. However, despite these difficulties the rehabilitation of Japan and the control of the already serious inflation demand that increased supplies of perishable foods be made available through official channels at official prices.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
DOCKETED
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION
is assigned to
^{}[]
No. 382
Tokyo, Japan, June 23, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
^{}[]
Subject: Price and Distribution Controls Over Fish and Vegetables.
^{}[]
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy of a Memorandum for the Japanese Government, SCAPIN 1910, of June 15, 1948, subject: "Price and Distribution Controls over Fish and Vegetables", prepared by the Price and Distribution Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters, which specifies that fish and vegetables are considered to be essential commodities in short supply within the purview of this Headquarters' Directive Number 3, SCAPIN 47, dated September 22, 1945, which charged the Japanese Government with responsibility for establishing and maintaining price and distribution controls over essential commodities in short supply.
^{}[]
With few exceptions, fish and vegetables have been rationed and sold at controlled government prices since the inception of price and distribution controls pursuant to this Headquarters' Directive Number 3. The issuance on June 15, 1948 of the SCAPIN referred to above merely confirms in writing that fish and vegetables are considered to be essential commodities in short supply and indicates to the Japanese Government that this Headquarters desires the continued ration and sale at government-controlled prices of fish and vegetables.
^{}[]
Enclosure:
^{}[]
Memorandum as described above.
^{}[]
Original and ozalid to Department.
^{}[]
869.2
DMBane:mf
^{}[]
894.5017/6-2348
^{}[]
CS/V
894.5017/6-2348
Filed
OCT 6 1948

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 182 dated June 23, 1948 from the Office of the Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject, "Price and Distribution Controls Over Fish and Vegetables."

(COPY)

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500

AG 430(15 Jun 48)ESS/PD 15 June 1948
SCAPIN 1910

MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT

SUBJECT: Price and Distribution Controls Over Fish and Vegetables

1. Directive number 3, SCAPIN 47, dated 22 September 1945, Office of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, charged the Japanese Government with responsibility for initiating and maintaining a firm control over prices and distribution of essential commodities in short supply.

2. In consequence of the continuing world food shortages there is an imperative need for Japan to secure maximum utilization of indigenous foodstuffs. Since fish and vegetables occupy an integral and indispensable position in the Japanese diet, they are essential commodities in short supply and are within the purview of Directive number 3, referred to above.

FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:

/ss/ R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General
