894.20251M Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Society Islands Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda. (File 1325)
ID: 894.20251M-1325   Pages: 29   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20251m-military-affairs-army-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
MAY 5 1941
ES
FF
EHW
FEC
H-1
ES

RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF THE AMERICAN CONSULATE
JUNEAU, ALASKA
1941 MAY 2 PM 12:7 Tahiti, Society Islands,
March 11, 1941

CONFIDENTIAL
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.L AND M.I.D.
Confidence 5/14/41 REK

DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 7 - 1941
Department of State

SUBJECT: Henry Walsworth Kinney, an American Citizen,
Suspected of being an Agent of the Japanese
Government.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
U - LIAISON OFFICE
WASHINGTON.

SIR:
I have the honor to report to the Department that the
local Government has informed me that Mr. Henry Walsworth
Kinney, no coxs, an American citizen bearer of service passport
No. 48 (E 184581), issued at this Consulate on October
13, 1937, is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese
Government and it is believed that he has furnished Japan
with reports on French Oceania.

Note: 130 - Kinney
Henry Walsworth

No specific information can be obtained as to the
nature of the reports Mr. Kinney is suspected of making.
The local British Consul informs me that Mr. Kinney's
name is included in a list of persons, which the British
Government has forwarded to him, who are suspected of
being engaged in espionage.

About two years ago Mr. Kinney was called to Japan for
a consultation with that Government. At that time he in-
formed me that in the past he had been in the employment
of the Japanese Government but that he would not go out
there until he went to Washington and discussed the mat-
tor with the Far Eastern Division at the State Department.

Unen

894.20251M/1 PS/VH
894.20251M/1 3-14-1941 CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -

Upon his return to Tahiti he informed me that he did go to Washington and from there to Japan with the approval of the Far Eastern Division.

Just what Mr. Kinney's present relations with Japan are, I do not know. He lived in Japan for some years and is married to a Japanese woman.

The Governor of the Colony states that it may be necessary to ask Mr. Kinney to leave French Oceania.

Respectfully,

Scudder Mersman
American Vice Consul

320.
SM

no coupons

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
(REF:FE:FRE)
No. 110
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Tahiti, Society Islands,
March 11, 1941
CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: Henry Walsworth Kinney, an American Citizen, Suspected of being an Agent of the Japanese Government.

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to report to the Department that the local Government has informed me that Mr. Henry Walsworth Kinney, an American citizen bearer of service passport No. 48 (E 184581), issued at this Consulate on October 13, 1937, is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese Government and it is believed that he has furnished Japan with reports on French Oceania.

No specific information can be obtained as to the nature of the reports Mr. Kinney is suspected of making. The local British Consul informs me that Mr. Kinney's name is included in a list of persons, which the British Government has forwarded to him, who are suspected of being engaged in espionage.

About two years ago Mr. Kinney was called to Japan for a consultation with that Government. At that time he informed me that in the past he had been in the employment of the Japanese Government but that he would not go out there until he went to Washington and dits to the matter with the Far Eastern Division.

State Department. Upon his return to Tahiti he informed me that he did go to Washington and from there to Japan with the approval of the Far Eastern Division.

Just what Mr. Kinney's present relations with Japan are, I do not know. He lived in Japan for some years and is married to a Japanese woman.

The Governor of the Colony states that it may be necessary to ask Mr. Kinney to leave French Oceania.

Respectfully,

SCUDDER MERSMAN

American Vice Consul

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
EG
EU

Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.

June 3, 1941

PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER

Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

894.20251M

Dear Mr. Berle:

The Office of Naval Intelligence, Washington, D. C., has referred to this Bureau a copy of a letter dated March 11, 1941, addressed to the Department of State from Scudder Mersman, American Vice Consul, Tahaiti, Society Islands. This letter pertains to Henry Walsworth Kinney, an American citizen, who is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese Government. It will be appreciated if you would furnish this Bureau with any additional information you may have concerning Kinney.

Sincerely yours,

DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State

JUN 4 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

894.20251M/2 PS/VH
FILED
JUN 25 1941

894.20251M/2
FILED
JUN 25 1941

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
JUN 21 1941
894
PS/VH
Confidential File

In reply refer to
PC 894.20251M/2

PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL

My dear Mr. Hoover:

May I acknowledge receipt of your personal and confidential letter to Mr. Berle, dated June 3, 1941, in which you refer to a copy of a letter dated March 11, 1941, sent to you by the Office of Naval Intelligence from the Vice Consul at Tahiti, Society Islands, pertaining to Henry Walsworth Kinney, an American citizen, who is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese Government. You ask for any further information this Department may have concerning Kinney.

The first reference to Mr. Kinney in the files of this Department is a letter addressed to the Department from the head office of The South Manchuria Railway Company

The Honorable
J. Edgar Hoover, Director,
Federal Bureau of Investigation.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

Company at Dairen, dated May 31, 1936, signed by Charles B. Kinney, which states that Mr. Henry W. Kinney expected to make a tour of the United States. A copy of his itinerary was enclosed. Subsequently, on August 18, 1938, Mr. Henry W. Kinney appeared at this Department and had a conversation with Mr. Sturgeon. It appears from a memorandum of that conversation that Mr. Kinney was making a tour of the United States for the benefit of the Japanese Foreign Office. He said that the purpose was to report American public opinion to the Japanese.

In the despatch dated March 11, 1941, to this Department from the American Consulate at Tahiti, it is stated that about two years ago Mr. Kinney had informed the Consul that he had previously been employed by the Japanese Government and that he had again been called to Japan for a consultation with that Government. Mr. Kinney is said, however, to have stated to the Consul that he would not go to Japan until he had been to Washington and discussed the matter with the Far Eastern Division of the State Department. The Consul further stated that upon his return to Tahiti, Mr. Kinney claimed to have been to Washington and to have gone to Japan with the approval of the Far Eastern Division. There is no evidence that Mr. Kinney

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-

Mr. Kinney at any time consulted the Department about the propriety or advisability of his visiting Japan.

The files of this Department contain a number of passport applications of this individual which will, of course, be made available to your Bureau if you should wish to see them.

Sincerely yours,

George A. Gordon
Acting Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation

FC:WGJ:DCM
6-11-41
A true copy of the signed original.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL - STAFF USE ONLY
June 6, 1941

No. 2186

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

Sir:

There is enclosed for your confidential information a copy of a despatch (no. 110) from the American Vice Consul at Tahiti, Society Islands, dated March 11, 1941. It is reported in this despatch that Mr. Henry Walsworth Kinney is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese Government. It is also reported that about two years ago Mr. Kinney was called to Japan for a consultation with the Japanese Government and that at that time the Vice Consul was informed by Mr. Kinney that he would not go to Japan until after proceeding to Washington and discussing the matter with the Far Eastern Division of the Department of State. The Vice Consul adds that upon Mr. Kinney's subsequent return to Tahiti the Vice Consul was informed by Mr. Kinney that he had gone to Washington "and from there to Japan with the approval of the Far Eastern Division".

In the files of the Department there is a letter dated May 25, 1938 from Mr. Charles B. Kinney of the South Manchuria Railway Company stating that Mr. Henry W. Kinney had completed a six-month tour of Japan, "Manchukuo and China, that he would arrive in San Francisco about

June 30,

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

June 30, 1938 and that he would spend about two months in New York and Washington. The Department's files also indicate that Mr. Kinney called at the Department on August 18, 1938 and talked with an officer of the Far Eastern Division. It was the understanding of this officer that Mr. Kinney at the time of his call at the Department was attached to the Japanese Foreign Office and the impression was received that Mr. Kinney had conferred with important members of the Japanese Cabinet and Government prior to making his trip to the United States. There is no evidence to indicate that Mr. Kinney either during this call or at any time prior or subsequent thereto consulted the Department about the propriety or advisability of his visiting Japan. Mr. Kinney traveled on a service passport issued October 13, 1937 at Tahiti and valid until October 13, 1939. There is no record of Mr. Kinney's having visited the Department subsequent to the call referred to above.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State:

A. A. PERLE, JR.

Enclosure:
From Consulate
Tahiti No. 110,
March 11, 1941.

Copy to American Consul,
Dairen.

894.20251M/1
FE:MWS:RB:OJL
FE 5-21, 22, 28-41

MAY 29 1941
JUN 5 1941
F. S. HAN
A true copy of the signed original.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY FOR AMERICAN CONSUL, DAIREN.
Returned to Dept
Could not be delivered

CONFIDENTIAL - STAFF USE ONLY

No. 2186
June 6, 1941

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

Sir:

There is enclosed for your confidential information a copy of a despatch (no. 110) from the American Vice Consul at Tahiti, Society Islands, dated March 11, 1941. It is reported in this despatch that Mr. Henry Walsworth Kinney is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese Government. It is also reported that about two years ago Mr. Kinney was called to Japan for a consultation with the Japanese Government and that at that time the Vice Consul was informed by Mr. Kinney that he would not go to Japan until after proceeding to Washington and discussing the matter with the Far Eastern Division of the Department of State. The Vice Consul adds that upon Mr. Kinney's subsequent return to Tahiti the Vice Consul was informed by Mr. Kinney that he had gone to Washington "and from there to Japan with the approval of the Far Eastern Division".

In the files of the Department there is a letter dated May 25, 1938 from Mr. Charles B. Kinney of the South Manchuria Railway Company stating that Mr. Henry W. Kinney had completed a six-month tour of Japan, "Manchukuo" and China, that he would arrive in San Francisco about

June 30,

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

June 30, 1938 and that he would spend about two months in New York and Washington. The Department's files also indicate that Mr. Kinney called at the Department on August 18, 1938 and talked with an officer of the Far Eastern Division. It was the understanding of this officer that Mr. Kinney at the time of his call at the Department was attached to the Japanese Foreign Office and the impression was received that Mr. Kinney had conferred with important members of the Japanese Cabinet and Government prior to making his trip to the United States. There is no evidence to indicate that Mr. Kinney either during this call or at any time prior or subsequent thereto consulted the Department about the propriety or advisability of his visiting Japan. Mr. Kinney traveled on a service passport issued October 13, 1937 at Tahiti and valid until October 13, 1939. There is no record of Mr. Kinney's having visited the Department subsequent to the call referred to above.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State:

A. A. DUNNE, JR.

Enclosure:
From Consulate
Tahiti No. 110,
March 11, 1941.

Copy to American Consul,
Dairen.

894.20251N/1

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL - STAFF USE ONLY
June 6, 1941

No.

Scudder, Sherman, Esquire,
American Vice Consul,
Tahiti, Society Islands, Oceania.

Sir:

Reference is made to your confidential despatch no. 110, March 11, 1941, in which you report that Mr. Henry Walsworth Kinney is suspected of being an agent of the Japanese Government. You also report that when Mr. Kinney was called to Japan for a consultation with the Japanese Government about two years ago he informed you that he would not go to Japan until after proceeding to Washington and discussing the matter with the Far Eastern Division of the Department of State. You add that upon his subsequent return to Tahiti he informed you that he had gone to Washington "and from there to Japan with the approval of the Far Eastern Division".

In the files of the Department there is a letter dated May 25, 1938 from Mr. Charles B. Kinney of the South Manchuria Railway Company stating that Mr. Henry W. Kinney had completed a six-month tour of Japan, "Manchukuo" and China, that he would arrive in San Francisco about June 30, 1938, and that he would spend about two months in New York and Washington. The Department's files also indicate that Mr. Kinney called at the

894.20251M/4 PS/BJH
Confidential File

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-

at the Department on August 18, 1938 and talked with
an officer of the Far Eastern Division. It was the
understanding of this officer that Mr. Kinney at the
time of his call at the Department was attached to the
Japanese Foreign Office and the impression was received
that Mr. Kinney had conferred with important members of
the Japanese Cabinet and Government prior to making his
trip to the United States. There is no evidence to
indicate that Mr. Kinney either during this call or at
any time prior or subsequent thereto consulted the
Department about the propriety or advisability of his
visiting Japan, and there is no record of Mr. Kinney's
having visited the Department subsequent to this call.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State:

A. A. BERLIN, JR.

894.20251M/1
MAY 20 1938
10:45
5-28-41
30
1

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON

In reply refer to
FC 894.20251M/5
FW
APR 2 1942

CONFIDENTIAL

The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
☑ Federal Bureau of Investigation

Enclosure:
Copy of strictly confidential despatch no. 16, dated
January 26, 1942, from the American Consulate, Tahiti,
Society Islands, subject: "Henry Walsworth Kinney,
suspected of being a Japanese agent", with enclosures.

FC:HJC:OPV 3/31/42

Confidential File
PS/EC
A true copy
the signer
not. J. W. W.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Tahiti, Society Islands,
January 26, 1942.

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: Henry Walsworth Kinney, suspected of being a Japanese agent.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

Referring to confidential despatch No. 110 dated March 11, 1941 and to the Department's confidential instruction dated June 6, 1941 concerning the American citizen, Mr. Henry Walsworth Kinney, who is suspected of being a Japanese agent, I have the honor to report that Mr. Kinney and his Japanese wife are continuing to reside quietly at their home in the district of Mataiea, Tahiti, about fifty kilometers from Papeete.

Following the outbreak of war with Japan in December 1941, the Government at Papeete interned most of the few Japanese living in the islands. Eleven of them are now at the internment camp at Taravao, the isthmus connecting the larger and smaller parts of the island of Tahiti. Several were left at Makatea because they were required for specialized work in the production of phosphate

Carbon copies
Destroyed

894.20251M
894.20251M/5
PS/HM
Confidential File

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

phosphate and because they are trusted. As Mr. Kinney is an American citizen and there has been no indication of his having had any relation with the Japanese Government during the past several years, he and his Japanese wife are still at liberty, but as they are definitely under suspicion, they stay close to their home except on the occasions, about once a month, when it is necessary to come to Papeete for supplies or to attend to business matters that may arise.

Mr. Kinney's radio receiving set was taken from his home by Tahitian soldiers on January 24 and he was informed by the soldiers that they were taking away radios from a number of people. On the side of the island where they live there is practically no reception of broadcasts from the United States or other places to the east, due to the intervening mountains, but during the night and between about five and seven o'clock in the morning there frequently is good reception of the broadcasts from Japan and French Indochina.

The situation of Mr. and Mrs. Kinney's home is unique and their garden is one of the show-places of the island. The highway which is the principal artery of communication of the island runs through their place. The house has been built close to the sea and not only have they beautified that part of their land but across the road they have planted a wide lawn, flowers, shrubs and

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -

and trees for some distance, even up the mountain sides and up the ravine where there is a picturesque waterfall which forms the center of their embellishment of the place. He says that when they first moved there, about 1935, the place was in the rough like all of the surrounding parts, and both he and his wife have spent practically their whole time in actively cultivating and beautifying their property, with the assistance of from four to ten workmen during most of the time. Besides vigorously cultivating her flower gardens, Mrs. Kinney is a capable fisherwoman and catches all the seafood to meet their daily requirements.

In answer to a questionnaire which I gave him, Mr. Kinney has prepared a formal statement concerning himself and his wife, copy of which is enclosed. In his statement he recites various facts concerning his life, where he has lived and the activities which he has carried on, particularly with reference to his employment by the South Manchuria Railway Company (the Japanese Government owned instrument of penetration into Manchuria) and his association with and later employment by the Japanese Foreign Office. He states that after a visit to Tahiti in 1934-35, he voluntarily reported to the Japanese Government concerning trade opportunities in Tahiti, but that other than that he has

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

has never made any report to the Japanese Government concerning any Pacific islands.

In the Department's confidential instruction, above mentioned, it is stated that there is in the files of the Department a letter dated May 25, 1938 from Mr. Charles B. Kinney concerning the prospective visit to the United States of Mr. Henry W. Kinney. It will be noted in his statement the latter declares that Charles Bishop Kinney is his son, born of his first wife (who was Hawaiian) at Honolulu, January 30, 1905, and that the relations between father and son now may be regarded as estranged. In previous conversation, he had said that his son Charles has been living in Manchuria for about the last fifteen years, that he was engaged in newspaper work, both as a correspondent and in assembling digests of the news and that he has not heard what has happened to him since the war, his last letter having been received more than a year ago. From another source it has been learned that Charles Kinney (like his father) is married to a Japanese woman.

In the book "Secret Agent of Japan, a Handbook of Japanese Imperialism" by Amleto Vespa, published in 1938 at London by Victor Gollancz Ltd., apparently as an issue of the Left Book Club which seems to be an organization of the militant labor movement in England, there is mention

note 894.2c211- Kinney, Charles Bishop

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

2/ mention of Mr. Charles Bishop Kinney. An excerpt from pages 271, 272 and 273 of that book is enclosed. It will be noted that Mr. Vespa speaks of Mr. Charles Kinney as holding an official position in the publicity department of the South Manchurian Railway and indicates that Mr. Kinney tried to induce him not to "do such a foolish thing" as to write a book about his experiences in Manchuria.

Mr. Henry W. Kinney told me that he understood that there was a book about a Japanese Agent in which a Mr. Kinney was mentioned and he wished me to understand that he was not the Kinney in question. He did not say that the reference was to his son Charles. However, he said that several years ago he had heard from his son that an Italian author had approached him in order to ask his assistance in procuring $20,000. from the Japanese Government for a book which he had written directed against the Japanese. The father said that his son immediately recognized the matter as attempted blackmail which was not unusual there, and would have nothing to do with it.

Mr. Kinney states that except for the one year that he worked for the Japanese Foreign Office in 1937-38, he has, since his retirement in 1935 lived entirely from his savings and investments. In his written statement he mentioned that he has some British War Bonds and other

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-

other British securities in a bank in London, and in conversation with the undersigned he also stated that he possesses some Japanese Government bonds which he bought some years ago because they paid six and one half per cent, which he considered the best investment he could find at that time.

During the course of the conversation M. Kinney said that he was born in Hawaii in 1878, that his father's family had lived in America since before the Revolution. His mother was born in Denmark but became an American citizen by marriage if not before (he was uncertain). Following the death of his father, when he was only two years old, his mother took him to Denmark where he was educated, acquiring his degree (M. A.) from a university in Denmark by special authorization just before returning to Hawaii at the age of 18. Although he uses English fluently, he speaks with an accent. Mrs. Kinney speaks English in such a manner as to make comprehension difficult, and always shouts.

Mr. Kinney states that while working for the South Manchuria Railway Company, besides writing numerous newspaper and magazine articles, he had three books published, all of a similar nature, the two later publications being revisions and amplifications of the first. These publications were in the nature of propaganda for Japan

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 -

Japan in Manchuria and are almost entirely devoted to justification in one form or another of the Japanese penetration in Manchuria. Excerpts from his book entitled Modern Manchuria and the South Manchuria Railway Company, printed by the Japan Advertiser at Tokyo in 1928, are given in enclosure No. 3.

Respectfully,

R. M. de Lambert
R. M. de Lambert
American Consul.

Enclosures:
1. Copy of Mr. Kinney's replies to questionnaire.
2. Excerpts from book entitled Secret Agent of Japan, by Amleto Vespa.
3. Excerpts from book entitled Modern Manchuria and the South Manchuria Railway Company.

320
deL/mf

2 Carbon Copies
Received

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, despatch No. 16, dated January 26, 1942.

Statement made by Henry W. Kinney

1. I went to Denmark when I was 2. Returned to the United States when about 4. Returned to Denmark when about 6 and remained there until 18.

2. Returned to the United States when 18.

3. Attended the University of California, doing post-graduate work, from the fall of 1897 until Nov., 1898. Have visited the United States on several occasions, but have never lived there (except in the Ter. of Hawaii, from 1898 until 1919) for more than some months at a time.

4. Was employed as a teacher, tutor, sugar chemist, sugar plantation time-keeper, purser, and newspaperman. All these were for short periods. Was reporter and later city editor of the Honolulu Bulletin (1904-1909), editor of the Hilo Tribune (1909-1914) and Superintendent of Public Instruction for the Ter. of Hawaii (1914-19).

5. Went to Japan in 1919 as a newspaperman. Editor "The Transpacific", correspondent for the New York Post, later for the United Press. In this capacity I became acquainted with various Japanese officials. In 1925 I had gone to Peking as editor of the Peking Leader (American) and, later, correspondent for the Philadelphia Public Ledger. The South Manchuria Railway Co., (a semi-government concern) wanted world publicity for the development work being done in Manchuria and engaged me to attend to this.

6. While my work was publicity, I sent various reports on development in Manchuria to newspapermen and writers. Others who came to know of this, wanted such reports, and this led to my sending mimeographed reports on Manchuria affairs and events to newspapermen, writers, government officials in America and Europe, as well as in Asia, bankers, educators, business men and others having a definite interest in Manchuria.

At the same time I wrote reports for the South Manchuria Railway Co., these explaining foreign opinions and sentiments with regard to Japanese affairs in Manchuria. These reports were also sent to Japanese Government officials. In this connection I went to the United States and Europe in 1928-29 and to the United States in 1932. On these occasions I called on persons to whom I sent reports and men of that kind, always making it a point to call on the State Department (which knew about my activities always) and other officials.

In

894.202 51 201/5
Confidential File

=== Page 23 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

In fact, both in America, England, and in Asia, I am sure that my work as a liaison man was welcomed.

All this was done as an employee of the South Manchuria Railway Co., and, while still in its employ and being paid by it, I went to Europe (mainly Geneva) to assist Mr. Matsuoka, and was also (1932) attached to the Lytton Commission of the League of Nations as assistant to the Japanese Assessor, Mr. Yoshida.

In 1935 I resigned from the South Manchuria Railway Co., and came to Tahiti to live. At its request I made a trip of a couple of months (May 3- July 1) to report on American opinion re Manchuria to the South Manchuria Railway Co.

In 1937 I was asked by the Japanese Foreign Office to do similar work for it (this was the first time I was paid and worked directly for the F.O.). I went to the United States, visiting San Francisco, New York and Washington, (Dec. 7- Dec. 23). Went to Japan (Jan. 7- Jan. 28). Stayed in Shanghai, Peking, Dairen, Harbin (Jan. 30 - May 20). Stayed in Japan (May 23 - June 15). Went to the United States, San Francisco, Chicago, New York, Washington, (June 30 - Sept. 8). Returned to Japan (Sept. 24 - Oct. 7) Arrived Seattle Oct. 20. Left San Francisco for Tahiti in November.

Since then I have lived continuously in Mataioa, Tahiti and have had no connection with the Japanese Government, the South Manchuria Railway Co., or, in fact, any Japanese official whatever (except a letter, about two years ago, from the then Japanese Ambassador, Amau, to Italy, which was solely a request that I send Tahitian stamps to his sons). When, THREE AND A HALF YEARS ago, I finished my employment with the F.O. (I told them that I would not serve more than that one year), I stated that, since I had retired for reasons of health, I could not and would not serve again.

My work was largely that of a liaison official, endeavoring to improve relations between the Japanese and other nationals. I know that it was welcomed and, I am sure, found useful by such officials as, for instances, Mr. Joseph Grew, U.S. Ambassador to Japan; Mr. Clarence Gauss, U.S. Ambassador to China; Sir Robert Craigie, British Ambassador to Japan; Major Bourne, Chief of Police of the International Settlement, Shanghai; and numerous others whom I might mention. It was, of course, always well known for whom I was working and what I was doing.

7. In 1934 I came to Tahiti to see whether I might wish to settle here, as I intended to retire in 1935. At the time it seemed to me that Tahiti afforded a market for certain Japanese wares, and on my return to Japan I reported thereon

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

thereon to the Japanese Foreign Office. This was purely a voluntary action on my part, as my trip was entirely a vacation, and my notes were entirely on commercial subjects.

8. I have never reported to the Japanese Government with regards to any other islands in the Pacific.

I have never reported on any subject whatever to the Japanese Government since I left its employ.

9. My work in Shanghai is covered, I think, by my answer to Question 6. During my last stay there, numerous questions arose between the Japanese authorities and American and British officials and private concerns, and I was often consulted by the latter and did what I could to assist them in their dealings with the Japanese.

10. This is, I believe, also covered by my answer to Question 6. The mimeographed reports on Manchurian events and affairs were sent out continuously, but at irregular intervals, during the period from Dec. 1925 until Oct. 1935. During this time I traveled, as described above, and visited frequently at points in China, Japan and on two occasions in the Philippines, in order to keep in contact with foreigners interested in the Far East, especially newspapermen and officials.

11. I have not heard from my son, Chas. Bishop Kinney, now, as far as I know, in Manchuria, for over a year. I have good reason to believe that he is displeased with me, and I am sure that you may describe the condition between us as estranged.

12. The name of my son above mentioned is Charles Bishop Kekuanaoa Kinney. He was born in Honolulu, Jan. 30, 1905.

13. I have two sons in the United States. One, Henry Walsworth Kinney, Jr., was born in Hilo, Ter. of Hawaii, Nov. 10, 1910. My last information is that he is an officer on an American ship plying between the United States and Iceland. The other (the only child of my second marriage), Harry Adrian Kinney, is attending school at Oakland, California. He was born in Peking, May 14, 1925.

14. The only relative of my wife in the United States, including Hawaii, is the above mentioned son, whose address is 1969 Oakview Drive, Oakland, Cal., U.S.A.

15. My banks are: National City Bank, of New York, 55 Wall street, N. Y. National City Bank, of New York, 117 Old Broad street, London, E.C.2

American

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -

American Trust Co., 464 California Street, San Francisco, Cal. U.S.A.
Hawaiian Trust Co., Honolulu, Ter. of Hawaii, U.S.A.
Banque de l'Indochine, Papeete.

While in your Questionnaire you mentioned banks only in Hawaii and the United States, I have thought best to include the complete list, including that in London, where I have some British War Bonds and other British Securities.

I shall, of course, be only too glad to give in detail any further information in which you may be interested.

You will see from the above that the work in which I was engaged for so many years, was one of trying to improve relations between the Japanese and other nations and nationals and that, if such work had been successful the unfortunate situation existing today would not exist. Especially during my last stay in Japan, I did my very best to persuade the Japanese that any rapprochement with Germany and Italy could not but be an entirely unnatural alliance (this was, of course, quite a time before the Axis tie-up), and that, as a sea power, Japan must find her natural allies in the United States and Great Britain. If you care for further details, I shall be pleased to give them.

Signed Henry W. Kinney

Henry W. Kinney
Mataiea, Jan. 25th, 1942.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, despatch No. 16, dated January 26, 1942.

Excerpts from Pages 271, 272 and 273 of the book entitled SECRET AGENT OF JAPAN, by Amleto Vespa.

"In the early part of June, Mr. Hayton Fleet, Director of the Fleet Telegraphic Agency of Shanghai, informed me that Mr. Charles Bishop Kinney had arrived from Manchuria and wanted to see me. Mr. Kinney's father is an American of Danish extraction and his mother Hawaiian. His wife was Japanese, and he holds an official position in the publicity department of the South Manchurian Railway.

While in Shanghai he lived in the Broadway Mansions, one of the largest hotels.

Before calling on him I found out that many Japanese officials and certain Russians often paid him visits.

From the lobby I called him on the guest phone. He asked me to come up; I requested that he come down.

As we sat in the reception room, he was very profuse in expressing his deep grief at the disgraceful and shameful treatment accorded me...he informed me that various Japanese officials, among whom were Sace and Shoinigi, had been severely punished for the ill-treatment of my family...that the Japanese authorities were conducting an investigation, and that I should be rewarded for all my losses.

Then suddenly he said:

"I have heard that you are writing a book on the four and a half years you spent with the Japanese in Manchuria. I cannot believe it; you are too smart to do such a foolish thing. Although you are a naturalized Chinese, you are Italian by birth, and Italy and Japan are good friends. If you write against Japan you write against Italy."

"Mr. Kinney," I replied, "the Japanese have compelled me to work four and half years for them for almost nothing. In return they have confiscated property of mine worth at least $50,000, and they have held my family as hostages for six months, three months of which my wife spent in a dungeon. Have you ever heard of a red-blooded man allowing himself to be robbed, insulted and outraged without in some way reacting? Japan's promises have no more meaning for me; their threats do not scare me in the least. I have a task and duty to perform. Nothing can make me change my programme. I have in Japan's name and under the compulsion of the Japanese been party to too many frightful acts to leave my conscience free. The least I can do to atone for my part, however unwilling, in

794.20051m/5
Confidential File

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -

the crimes of my superiors, the least I can do for those who remain under the most barbarous oppression in history, is to tell the world the truth, that is my reply."

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3, despatch No. 16, dated January 26, 1942.

Excerpts from the book entitled
MODERN MANCHURIA AND THE SOUTH MANCHURIA RAILWAY.

by Henry W. Kinney

(printed by the Japan Advertiser Press, Tokyo, 1928)

In the introduction to the book Mr. Kinney states:

"As a semi-governmental institution, the South Manchuria Railway Company is one of the most important factors in the advancement of Japan's aims and policies in Manchuria. These are, not colonization or political control, but the development of the abundant resources of this rich, hitherto only partly settled territory, and its consequent increase in population and purchasing power. Japan is especially interested as Manchuria is a contiguous country which may furnish her with the raw materials which she needs for her industries, and with a market for her manufactured goods; but in these all nations share, and the greatest measure of benefit redounds, of course, to the Chinese."

On pages 11, 12 and 13 he states:

"The loan and development plans ... (are) ... to bring about cooperation by the Chinese, Japanese, and foreign nations, the participation of the latter being a plain demonstration of Japan's desire not only to keep the "Open Door" open, but to push it still wider."

... "anti-Japanese activity, was plainly engineered by the Chinese authorities, and the explanation given has been fear of encroachment on Chinese rights by Japan . . .

... "the extent and purpose of (Japanese) activities remain, as they always have been, the development of Manchuria so that it may help to solve Japan's industrial problem, without any political or territorial aggression being considered."

On page 26 Mr. Kinney wrote:

"Not Conquest, But Development - The activities and aims of the Japanese in Manchuria have from time to time been the object of suspicion and misapprehension abroad. Still, the reasons for Japan's interest and her ambitions in Manchuria are easily understandable. There is no question of conquest, nor even of colonization on a large scale. From the very beginning Japan decided to work out her future by means of industry and commerce - not by war. She must make the money which she needs to pay for the foodstuffs which she must import

894.30251M/5
Confidential File

=== Page 29 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -

import to feed her rapidly increasing population. She will do this by developing her industry and commerce. In these days of strenuous world competition, she must seek the markets where she may enjoy the greatest natural advantages. These lie principally in eastern Asia, and Manchuria furnishes one logical field. Thought of conquest is out of the question for many reasons: It would be contrary to Japan's established policy of peaceful cooperation with the other Powers, of which she gave a significant demonstration at the Washington Conference; it would cause a hatred of Japan on the part of all the rest of China which must result in the loss of a most important and promising market - so the game would not be worth the candle."

And on pages 28, 29 and 30 the following statements appear:

"Political Position - Thus the aims of Japan in Manchuria are preponderatingly economic; yet the strategic considerations cannot be overlooked. Japan is well aware of the fact that if dangers shall ever threaten her, such are most likely to develop on the continent of Asia. For centuries the Japanese have known that potentiality of peril exists in the geographical position of Korea, "the dagger pointed at Japan's heart," and the strategic necessity of keeping that peninsula free from danger of hostile occupation is indisputable. It is thus to the interest of Japan, both for economic and military reasons, that Manchuria remain peaceful and undisturbed in Chinese hands. Whoever governs Manchuria is relatively unimportant, so long as such rule be strong enough to maintain peace and order."

"It is the policy of the Japanese Government, however, to remain on terms of friendly cooperation with those who rule Manchuria, and to assist them, as far as this may be done without encroaching on the principle of noninterference with internal affairs of China."

"The development of Manchuria's resources, accompanied by an increase in its population, which will become prosperous through wresting rich products from a hitherto largely idle soil, is the aim of Japan in Manchuria."
