894.017 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Japan, Civil Service., June 11, 1940 (File 1193)
ID: 894.017-1193   Pages: 5   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.017-government-mandates-recognition-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE AND SELECTION DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Copy in FE
FA
FP
DP
AL

AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 11, 1940.

No. 4767.

SUBJECT: PROPOSED CHANGES IN THE JAPANESE CIVIL SERVICE.

894.017

894.017/3

|  RECEIVED | DEPARTMENT OF STATE  |
| --- | --- |
|  JUL 15 1940 | MR. LONG  |

COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.
July 9 c 88

|  ASISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE | JUL 15 1940 | MR. LONG  |
| --- | --- | --- |

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

The Cabinet is considering major changes in the laws and ordinances governing Japan's civil services. These revisions are still being discussed by the Cabinet Committee for the improvement of the civil service and by the Cabinet itself, but the Department may be interested in a brief outline of proposals as reported in the press here. I have the honor, therefore, with this despatch

FILED
JUL 22 1940
F/A

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

despatch briefly to summarize and to discuss the five important measures.

A. **Higher Civil Service Examination.**

It is proposed to consolidate the present administrative and diplomatic higher civil service examinations and to eliminate foreign languages which are a required subject in the latter examination. A foreign language is still to be included in the oral examination. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through Mr. Tani, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, has reportedly objected to the elimination of a foreign language as a required subject for the entrance examination into the diplomatic service. No objection, however, has been voiced to the consolidation of administrative and diplomatic examinations. This consolidation would theoretically at least provide a larger group of candidates from which Foreign Service officers could be selected.

B. **Abolition of the Ordinance Guaranteeing Personal Status of Civil Service Employees.**

In September, 1932 a "civil service limitation ordinance" was issued under the Saito Cabinet. This ordinance was designed to protect government officials from the evils of caprice at the hands of political parties. The press reports that following the "May 15 incident" (May 15, 1932) the power of political parties began to decline rapidly whereas the bureaucracy became more and more influential. Abolition of the ordinance guaranteeing the position of civil service employees was first proposed during the administration of the Hirota Cabinet in 1936 and has been discussed by each subsequent cabinet.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

cabinet. With the great increase in number of Government restrictions and controls with regard to economic and financial matters, the power of the bureaucracy has become correspondingly greater and the complaint is widely circulated that Government officials are entirely too arrogant in their exercise of this power. The present Cabinet has expressed its determination to abolish this ordinance. Unanimous approval of the Cabinet was reportedly given at its meeting on May 31. The measure has now been submitted to the Privy Council for study. While the press is generally sympathetic with the Government's determination to abolish the ordinance, it anticipates considerable difficulty before the approval of the Privy Council is obtained.

C. Increase of salaries of minor Government officials.

The Government has recognized for some time the necessity of increasing the salaries of lower government officials but has been unable to reach a general agreement on the increased remuneration. The Cabinet did, however, on May 31 approve a proposal to pay at the end of this month a part of the annual bonus which is usually given at the close of the year. Further consideration is being given toward the payment of a "wartime allowance" to lower Government officials but considerable difficulty is anticipated in view of the temporary ordinance concerning wages and salaries, issued on September 18, 1939, by which increases of salaries were prohibited.

D.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

D. Revision of the Ordinance concerning appointment of civil service employees.

The Committee for the improvement of civil service has agreed upon a policy of allowing "free appointment of civil service employees" by means of which "private experts and men of ability" may be appointed to Government positions. It was reported on June 4 that the Committee had decided to submit to the Cabinet a proposal under which the scope of appointment by nomination of officials of Chokunin rank will be extended so that capable persons from private circles may be appointed to such posts as the Director of the Cabinet Information Bureau, Assistant Director of the Price Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Director General of the Trade Bureau, Director General of the Electric Bureau of the Ministry of Communications, etc., etc. In addition experts from private circles will be appointed as officials of Chokunin rank to assist the Ministers of Agriculture and Forestry and Commerce and Industry in formulating policies. A Counselor is to be appointed as the direct assistant to State Ministers in formulation of policies. The proposed counselors will rank immediately above parliamentary counselors. There are also to be appointed by nomination experts and technicians from private circles to assist in Government administration.

E.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

E. Status of Japanese Officials Returning to Government Posts in Japan after Service with the "Manchukuo" or other Foreign Governments.

The Cabinet has approved a proposal under which Japanese officials who have served the "Manchukuo" or other foreign governments and who return to official posts in Japan will be given the same treatment with regard to rank and salary as though all of their government service had been performed in Japan. It was reported that this measure applies primarily to Japanese officials with the "Manchukuo" Government who return to a post in Japan. The application of this measure, however, will include all Japanese subjects serving foreign governments and, it is reported, may facilitate exchange of officials with the new Banking Government and the Provisional Governments in Mongolia and North China. The proposition will be submitted to the Privy Council prior to sanction by the Emperor.

Translations of these ordinances will be forwarded to the Department if and when promulgated and published in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph C. Grew.

802.1
MWS:C

Original and 4 copies to Department.
