894.4063 Social Matters., Amusements. Sports. Recreation. Where A Group Of Amusements Occur In A Subdivision The Name Of The Particular Subject Will Be Placed After The Case Number., Japan, Outdoor Sports. Olympic Games. Aircraft And Automo (File 1270)
ID: 894.4063-1270   Pages: 35   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.4063-social-matters-amusements-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
OK new

# CROSS-REFERENCE FILE

## NOTE

### SUBJECT

Meiji University Baseball Team.

Department's attitude toward proposed extension of invitation to team of Jap swimmers to come to Honolulu in 1940, raised question whether the Association might wish "not only to take into account the disturbed state of athletic activities in Japan but also to consider the question whether the state of public opinion in U.S. toward various actions of Japan is such that holding of international athletic competition would or would not be likely to be received by the public in a manner which might tend to defeat rather than to further the purposes which are well and favorably known as the aims of international athletic competition". Proposed meet apparently not held.

For the original paper from which reference is taken

m

See Memo.
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)

Dated June 11, 1941
From: State Department
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
(Schuler)

File No. 811.111 Non-Immigrant 94/119

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1940

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
4063 Olympic Games
894.4063 Olympic Games

JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON

DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 3 - 1936

The Japanese Ambassador presents his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of July 6 1936 State and has the honor to request that he be good enough to cause the usual customs courtesies to be extended to Mr. Jigoro Kano, Member of the House of Peers and Commissioner of the Committee on Invitations to the Olympic games in Japan, who is expected to arrive at Seattle on July 5th by the steamship "Heian Maru".

July 2, 1936.

894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/1

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
PC - Customs 7.
In reply refer to
July 6 1936

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and at the instance of the Japanese Ambassador requests that the appropriate Customs Officer be authorized to extend the usual customs courtesies and free entry privileges to the person or persons indicated below:

Mr. Jigoro Kano, Member of the House of Peers and Commissioner of the Committee on Invitations to the Olympic games in Japan, upon his arrival at Seattle July 5, 1936, on the Steamship HEIAN MARU.

This letter confirms the telephone communication of July 2, 1936, from the Department of State.

894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/I
A true copy of the signed original.
JUL 8 1936
JUL 6 1936
WY
FE
M. M. H.
PC:LDA 7/2/36

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
PC - Customs 8.
894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/1

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Japanese Ambassador and acknowledging the receipt of his note of July 2 has pleasure in informing him that the Department of State has taken the necessary action to arrange for the extension of the usual customs courtesies and free entry privileges to Mr. Jigoro Kano, Member of the House of Peers and Commissioner of the Committee on Invitations to the Olympic games in Japan, upon his arrival at Seattle July 5, 1936, on the Steamship HEIAN MARU.

Department of State, July 5 1936
Washington, D.C.
PC: LDA 7/2/36

A true copy of the signed original.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1936 JUL 9 AM 9 19

COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS

THE HONORABLE,
The Secretary of State. (PC)

Sir:

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of July 6, 1936, and to advise you that the appropriate customs officer at Seattle, Washington, has been authorized to extend the usual customs courtesies and free entry privileges to the person or persons indicated below, upon their arrival at that port on the Steamship HEIAN MARU, on or about July 5, 1936:

Mr. Jigoro Kano, Member of the House of Peers and Commissioner of the Committee on Invitations to the Olympic games in Japan.

894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/2
FILED
JUL 10 1936

By direction of the Secretary:

Respectfully,

[Signature]

Assistant Secretary.

4

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/ 3

# DOCUMENT FILE
## NOTE

SEE 862.4063 Olympic Games/115 FOR memo

FROM State Dept. Secretary (Hull) DATED July 3, 1956
TO
NAME
1-1157 070

REGARDING: Count Michimasa Soejima (Soyejima) representing Japan at the Olympic Games.

Expressed hope Japan would secure the Next Olympic Games for Tokyo.

dg

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
894.4363

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

September 11, 1936.

SKH:

Tokyo's despatch No. 1969, dated August 6, 1936, puts forward the proposition that:

"There seems to be a feeling that good will missions, the exchange of good will messages, solemn asseverations of Japan's good and peaceful intentions, and the holding of international conferences in Japan will serve as well as concrete evidence to allay the suspicions of the Powers. The present enthusiasm over the holding of the Olympics here in 1940 is largely explained by the above mentioned factor."

Before reaching this conclusion, the Embassy observes that Japan's withdrawal from the League of Nations and abrogation of the Washington and London (sic) naval treaties, the fact that its exports are "barred" by a number of countries and its trade policy resented in many parts of the world, and the fact that Japanese activities and ambitions in North China aroused apprehension in Great Britain and in the United States, have combined to make Japan feel "isolated from the Family of Nations since the fall of 1931". "Therefore," the Embassy states, "a golden opportunity was presented to a semi-outcast to regain face among the nations of the world."

As

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -

As to the factual statements set forth in the despatch:
1. The London Naval Treaty was not "abrogated" by Japan;
2. There is no important case of Japanese products being "barred";
3. It is unlikely that the Japanese anticipate, as suggested, that the holding of the Olympic Games in Japan will induce those nations that have taken economic measures against Japan to relax such measures.

Perhaps the best evidence that the authorities in Japan did not feel that Japan needed the Games to improve her international reputation is the statement of the Minister for War expressing dislike for the Olympics. (Actually, the short statement quoted in the despatch is not entirely representative of the attitude of the War Minister, and is misleading.)

There is no doubt but that the Japanese people hope that the successful holding of the Olympic Games in Japan will operate to ameliorate those feelings of animosity, dislike and fear which are prevalent. That fact was emphasized by Kawakami in an article in the POST a short time ago.

If the Japanese really believe that the holding of the Olympic Games in Japan would rehabilitate

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -

rehabilitate Japan as a member of the Family of Nations or induce those nations which have taken economic measures against Japan to remove or abate these measures, then indeed the Japanese might be regarded as entirely naive. A more complete statement of the reasons for the desire of the Japanese to hold the Games in Japan must necessarily include:

1. The effort of the Japanese to have the Games held in Tokyo was initiated prior to the Mukden Incident;
2. The Olympic Games have hitherto always been held in an occidental country;
3. The avowed purpose of Count Soyeshima, former Mayor Nagata of Tokyo, and others, who have been given the greater share of the credit for obtaining the Games for Tokyo in 1940, was to divert the minds of the Japanese people from narrow nationalism and to make the people "internationally conscious".

It may be said that the impression given the reader of this despatch is that the motives of Japan in securing the Olympic Games are incompatible with the spirit and objectives of the Olympic movement. The writer has failed to present a complete or a fair picture of the situation, and has shown a regrettable tendency to deviate from the

standard

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 4 -

standard of objectivity expected of reporting officers. The unrestrained language quoted in the following examples is adequate evidence of the lack of balance characterizing this despatch:

"A golden opportunity was presented to a semi-outcast to regain face among the nations of the world".

"A country which has unhesitatingly broken international treaties, which has augmented its armaments beyond reasons of defense ... is now selected to receive the torch of the Olympics ..."

It appears to us that the prospects of good to the Family of Nations arising out of the Olympics being held in Japan are greater than the prospects of evil arising therefrom.

894.4063 Olympic Games/4

FE:WTT/END;DLY

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
63-1
894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/4
FILED JUL 15 1936

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 1969

AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, August 6, 1936

SUBJECT: SIGNIFICANCE OF THE DECISION TO HOLD THE 1940 OLYMPIC GAMES IN TOKYO.

CONFIDENTIAL

The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington.

Sir:

The decision of July 31 by the International Olympic Committee to hold the 1940 Olympic Games in Tokyo is significant in view of the background of the matter and the peculiar psychology of the Japanese.

It will be recalled that Japan's desire for the Games dates back to the year 1930. Subsequently the Manchurian and Shanghai Incidents of 1931 and 1932, respectively, occurred and Japan's actions were held blameworthy by most of the countries of the world.

Japan

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
63-2

- 2 -

Japan withdrew from the League of Nations and abrogated the Washington and London Naval treaties. Japan's cheaper exports were barred by a number of countries and Japan's trade policy was resented in many parts of the world. Japanese activities and ambitions in North China aroused apprehension in Great Britain and the United States. In a word, this country has felt itself isolated from the family of nations since the fall of 1931.

Therefore, a golden opportunity was presented to a semi-outcast to regain face among the nations of the world. Hence, the efforts of the Japanese to have their invitation for the Olympic Games accepted were tireless. Japan now feels that its international reputation has to some extent improved by virtue of the selection of Tokyo as the venue of the 1940 Games. Undoubtedly the choice of Japan as host for such a large international gathering will increase the patriotic conceit of the Japanese people.

A country which has unhesitatingly broken international treaties, which has augmented its armaments beyond reasons of defense, and which has continued to violate the sovereignty of a neighbor country, is now selected to receive the torch of the Olympics, which is partly a symbol of international peace and cooperation. Whether or not the Japanese have any realization of this incongruity, they rejoice over the International Olympic Committee's vote as a special tribute to Japan as a great nation.

The current feeling of elation over Japan's success in obtaining the 1940 Games has been amply demonstrated during the past several days. It is said that the Emperor

has

=== Page 13 === (confidence 1.00)
63-3

- 3 -

has given expression to his gratification. Premier Hirota stated that while the recent decision was due to the strenuous efforts made by the Japanese interested in the case, it was "a safe indicator of the world's correct conception of our country". The Premier added that he hoped that the Japanese people would take advantage of the occasion in 1940 to impress the visitors from abroad with the true meritorious characteristics of the nation. Mr. Torataro Ushizuka, Mayor of Tokyo, stated that the honor accorded Japan was due to the prestige of "our August Ruler" and also to the influence of "our rising Empire", plus the national enthusiasm.

A luncheon party in celebration of Japan's successful bid for the Olympics was given by the Mayor of Tokyo on August 3 and was attended by 600 persons, among them Prince Kuni, Prince Iyesato Tokugawa, the Minister for Overseas Affairs, the Minister for Commerce and Industry, and Mr. Uchida, former Railways Minister. A three day celebration of the good news was started on August 3. The Japanese flag placed over the Olympic flag may be seen flying over the streets of the city, fireworks are being set off, and the parks have been specially decorated. Apparently the only dissenting note amid this welter of enthusiasm was that voiced by General Terauchi, the War Minister, who, according to today's JAPAN ADVERTISER, made the following comment at a Cabinet meeting: "I'll never like them (the Olympic Games), no matter how much I look at them. To make so much fuss over something like the Olympics is not becoming to a great nation".

Japan

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
63-4

- 4 -

Japan has a desire to regain the confidence of the nations, a desire often expressed in curious ways. There seems to be a feeling that good will missions, the exchange of good will messages, solemn asseverations of Japan's good and peaceful intentions, and the holding of international conferences in Japan will serve as well as concrete evidence to allay the suspicions of the Powers. The present enthusiasm over the holding of the Olympics here in 1940 is largely explained by the above mentioned factor. This political aspect, coupled with the thoroughness of the Japanese, their love of sports, and their well-known hospitality, should go a long way toward making the 1940 Games a success.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph C. Grew

GDA:m
840.6

3.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
89474063 OLYMPIC GAMES/5

# DOCUMENT FILE
## NOTE

SEE 862.4063 Olympic Games/123 FOR Despatch #3014

FROM Germany (Dodd) DATED Sept. 2, 1936
TO NAME

REGARDING: Next Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan in 1940. Report from well-informed quarters that three officers in the German Army have already been instructed to prepare themselves for,—

The thoroughness with which German sport development may be expected to continue receives substantiation in a report from well-informed quarters that three officers in the Army have already been instructed to prepare themselves for the next Olympic Games, at Tokyo, in 1940, for the event known as the "modern pentathlon" which includes swimming, riding, shooting, fencing and running. At the reception of the winners, Hitler in an exuberant mood stated that Germany would despatch as large, and an even more powerful, team to Tokyo and furthermore will be represented by a worthy sporting gallery consisting of several thousand workers who will be transported thither

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

October 27, 1936.

EFD:
MHH:

The foreign community in Japan is indignant over a campaign on the part of the police for the prevention of espionage and the protection of Japanese womanhood from "immoral foreigners". Apparently since the February 26 Incident the police are paying particular attention to the personal affairs of foreign residents in Japan. I do not suggest reading.

894.4062 Olympic Games/6

WTT/DLY

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 30, 1936.

No. 2060.

SUBJECT: RELATIONS BETWEEN JAPANESE WOMEN AND FOREIGNERS
AND THEIR ALLEGED CONNECTION WITH ESPIONAGE
ACTIVITIES.

894.4063 Olympic Games
894.202
894.115

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that the decision to
hold the 1940 Olympic Games in Tokyo has, according to
the Domei news agency, given rise to an intensified
police campaign for the prevention of espionage and
the protection of Japanese womanhood from "immoral
foreigners".

While

304.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/6
FILED
FEB 1936

=== Page 18 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

While there is nothing new about the "spy complex" of Japanese officialdom, especially in its relation to so-called love affairs between Japanese women and foreigners, the present campaign was probably inspired by the thought that there will be a large influx of persons from abroad in 1940 and consequently an increase in the prevailing danger both to the virtue of Japanese women and to Japan's military security.

For some time past, the Japanese authorities have viewed with suspicion foreigners who have amorous relations with Japanese women, particularly with stenographers, café waitresses, and taxi dancers. This suspicion is professedly based on the rather fantastic assumption that such foreigners are able to obtain from the women in question important information concerning national secrets. It is difficult to understand just how women of the type named would be able to gather any useful military or other information. Nevertheless, there have been cases of foreigners who have suffered molestation and even arrest at the hands of the Japanese police, perhaps the most famous case being that of Lieutenant Tessier Du Cros, Assistant Naval Attaché of the French Embassy.*

As already reported to the Department,** at a meeting held on August 12 the Home Minister, the Vice Minister for Home Affairs, the Director of the Police Affairs Bureau of the Home Office, and the Director of the Shrines Bureau of that Department decided to start a campaign for a morally pure Tokyo during the 1940 Olympic Games and during the

* Embassy's despatches No. 1107, December 28, 1934, and No. 1130, January 11, 1935.
** Embassy's Monthly Report for August 1936, Section X.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

the solemn observance of the 2600th anniversary of the founding of the Empire and, specifically, to prohibit the seeking of autographs, particularly by females, from athletes participating in the Games. In making their decision about autographs, the Home Office officials presumably had in mind the occasion of the holding of the Far Eastern Games in Japan in 1930, when a number of Japanese girls are said to have obtained autographs from some of the Philippine athletes and to have established acquaintances that aroused widespread indignation and condemnation of the girls "as betrayers of all that is fine in Japanese womanhood."

A more important decision was reported by Domei of September 5 to have been reached by the Metropolitan Police Board. According to this news agency, the Foreign Affairs Section of the Metropolitan Police Board has decided to adopt a "positive policy" for the surveillance of foreigners suspected of espionage and for the guarding of Japanese womanhood from international scandals. There is enclosed a clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER of September 6 concerning the Metropolitan Police Board's opinions, as reported by Domei and THE JIJI, on the subject of "immoral foreigners", unsuspecting Japanese women spies, and international love affairs.

Domei's report has quite naturally aroused a great deal of speculation and criticism both in the foreign press and among members of the foreign community. Although it is understood that the Metropolitan Police Board has failed to corroborate the accuracy of the Domei and JIJI reports, the fact remains that these reports were read throughout Japan

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

Japan and must have created an unfavorable impression of foreigners in the minds of the Japanese readers. The significance of this seemingly trivial matter is twofold: (1) a considerable part of the Japanese population has been undoubtedly inculcated with the idea that many foreigners are not only immoral but are also guilty of espionage activities and must therefore be guarded against; (2) there is a possibility of international complications arising from a suspicious Japanese populace and also, if one can credit Domei, from the future actions of the Japanese police both in the interim between now and the holding of the Olympic Games here and at the time of the Games.

The feelings aroused in the foreign press and in the foreign colony by the Metropolitan Police Board's reported opinions are variously those of indignation and amusement. As of possible interest, there are enclosed editorials on the subject from the JAPAN ADVERTISER of September 8 and the JAPAN CHRONICLE of September 9. Interest in the matter was increased by the publication in the JAPAN ADVERTISER of September 20 of a letter addressed to the editor by one I. Uyeda, who described immoral foreigners as those "who abuse our hospitality, prey on our young maidens, practice free love which we do not approve, and above all, with the influence of money and prestige, reduce and abase our Japanese womanhood."

Mr. Uyeda has come in for a storm of criticism from various foreigners who have contributed anonymous letters to the JAPAN ADVERTISER. Some of these letters have dwelt on the selling of Japanese women for service in licensed prostitution

2/3

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

prostitution, others on the existence of the institution of "free love" in Japan as proved by art and literature, and still others on the international discourtesy of Mr. Uyeda's words.

Respectfully yours,

Erle R. Dickover,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

820.02
GDA:C

Enclosures:
1/ Clipping from JAPAN ADVERTISER, September 6, 1936;
2/ Clipping from JAPAN ADVERTISER, September 8, 1936;
3/ Clipping from JAPAN CHRONICLE, September 9, 1936;
Clipping from JAPAN ADVERTISER, September 20, 1936.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, to despatch No. 2060, dated Sept. 29, 1936. from the Embassy at Tokyo.

The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, Sept. 6, 1936.

# POLICE WILL GUARD GIRLS FROM ALIENS

## Foreigners of Questionable Morals to Be Deported Unless They Reform DETECTIVES ARE ASSIGNED

### Negative Policy of Past Abandoned Because of Coming of Olympic Games

As the 1940 Olympic Games will bring many foreigners to Japan, the Metropolitan Police Board is giving consideration. Domei understands, to the problem of guarding Japanese womanhood from international scandals. It seems that a negative policy has hitherto been followed. This is to be replaced with a positive policy designed to achieve results during the coming four years.

The foreign affairs section of the board has learned much about the problem in the gathering in since the February 26 incident of foreigners suspected of espionage and Japanese girls associated with them and in the usual vigilance against secret prostitution. It has been found that the foreigners are always to blame. Girls have worked as spies without realizing what they were doing, merely trying to please their alien lovers. On their side, the relations are simple love affairs. It is believed that this is made possible, says the news agency, by the blind admiration of Japanese women for foreigners.

As part of the new positive policy, six of the 12 detectives in the service of the foreign affairs section are to devote themselves to the control of morals. They will watch very closely those who frequent a certain Marunouchi hotel, a certain Nihonbashi apartment house and a certain Ochanomizu apartment house which have become notorious as centers of foreigners' love affairs. Each of these places will have its own detective.

Domei claims that the Metropolitan Police Board has worked out a definition of an "immoral foreigner." He is one who at any one time has relations with more than one woman. When a foreigner comes under this definition, his employer will be notified and warned. If he fails to reform, he will be deported.

Attention will be drawn to the evils of relations with foreigners of this type in lectures at girls' schools.

The Jiji understands that the police have undertaken to clean the country of "immoral foreigners" and have been investigating the private lives of suspects. As a result of such investigation, six members of what is described as an "American Indian" jazz band that was playing until a few days ago at one of the most popular dancehalls of the capital were scheduled to be deported yesterday afternoon by the Hikawa Maru.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No. 2060, dated Sept. 29, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.

The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, Sept. 8, 1936.

## Foreigners, Morals and Manners

The "furio gaijin" campaign has started again, this time allied to the spy mania. According to a recent Domei report, the Metropolitan Police Board has decided to adopt a "positive policy" to curb the activities of "immoral foreigners" having relations with Japanese women and in some cases using those relations to further their espionage activities. Resolute efforts will be made "to clean the country of immoral foreigners," and to this end six of the twelve detectives in the service of the Foreign Section of the Police Board will watch closely four reputed places of rendezvous in the capital, lectures will be given in girls' schools on the evils of "relations with foreigners of this type," while a foreigner "who at any one time has relations with more than one woman" has been defaced by the Board as "immoral" and if such a person, after suitable warning, fails to reform, he will be deported.

Inquiries at the Metropolitan Police Board have failed to elicit the exact extent to which these reports are accurate, but since through the newspapers they must have been read by at least twenty million Japanese people and thus must affect in some degree the attitude of those people towards both resident and visiting foreigners, it is important to examine the needs and nature of the alleged police campaign. It has avowedly two aims: to prevent espionage and protect Japanese womanhood.

As to the first aim, it is reported that certain foreigners have paid court to certain Japanese women who, as a gage of their affections, have tended to the objects thereof information concerning the secrets of the Empire. Now, love as an instrument of espionage has been the theme of sensational romances and spectacular films for many years. It has indeed played its part in real life, as in the cases of the notorious Mata Hari and the famous Okichi. But in such cases the spy is generally the woman who elicits information from the man, men in such matters and in most countries being in possession of more information than women. But the modern Japanese version of this familiar transaction is that the men get the information from the women, and this in the face of what every one knows Japanese women to know about matters which could be valuable to a spy. One might recognize the need of such steps as those described if it were reported that the "immoral foreigners" were bloody heroism known regularly to sup and otherwise disport themselves with Japanese Government officials and similar people in the know. But the story is distinctly that the men get their precious secrets from women. And so the question naturally arises: "What are the secrets that they get?"

It may be suggested implicitly, although explicitly it is not, that the women in their turn contract liaisons of one kind and another with such eminent Japanese as do know things worth knowing, extract this information from them, and then pass it on to their foreign paramount. If such is the suggestion, then here is work for the police of much greater importance than rounding up a few foreigners, work involving a discovery of which people in the Government service can be trusted with state secrets and which not, a phase of the current "administrative renovation" which would commend itself to everybody. If, however, it is not claimed that the women acquire special information by special means, we are left with the conclusion that all they can tell the "immoral foreigner" is what they know themselves in the ordinary way. Now what do these women know about things Japanese which might be harmful to this Empire if conveyed to a foreigner, immoral or otherwise? The women in question, according to all reports, are girls just out of school, cafe waitresses or taxi dancers. It is true they might tell something about their own economic and social conditions. The waitresses and dancers might say something of the blackmail levied upon them by employees of the gutter press and others in more responsible positions. But these are things, after all, which most foreigners who are interested can fairly easily find out in the course of casual conversation with the most respectable of their Japanese male acquaintances. For the rest, a woman of this kind can convey nothing more to an immoral foreigner than the trivialities which her usually inadequate English and his still more inadequate Japanese permit. In plain words and to the plain man, the spy angle of this story does not make sense.

As to the defense of Japanese womanhood, this is a commendable objective. The history of monogamous civilizations throughout the world shows a commendable pursuit of the ideal, and degrees of attainment alike only in one particular, that they fall short of it. According to the standards of all these monogamous civilizations a man "who at any one time has relations with more than one woman" is an immoral person, whether he be Japanese or Lithuanian. But, alas, such immoral persons continue to exist in all countries, and it is usually found that their numbers increase or decrease according to the social pressure exerted by the habits of the people immediately surrounding them. In countries where so have "at any one time relations with more than one woman" is held in general horror, it is generally found that this practice diminishes, and vice versa. And in countries where authority feels the need to diminish it, steps are taken to change the whole moral tone of the community under its jurisdiction. Thus, if the Japanese authorities consider it of importance to protect the standards of virtue of Japanese women, there is surely something more to be done than to watch four hotels in Tokyo and deport an occasional foreigner.

As to the reported lectures in girls' schools on the evils of "relations with foreigners of this type," the question naturally arises as to how the unfortunate listeners are to identify "the type" in question, and the equally obvious answer is that they cannot and will not even try, but will imbibe a very natural horror of indulging in the most casual social amenities with foreigners of any kind. Here we come to the important part of the whole question, namely, that these campaigns have as their only effect the stoking up of xenophobia among the Japanese people, a people normally among the most spontaneously friendly to the stranger in the world. Twenty million people read that sinister foreigners are stealing their secrets and corrupting their womanhood to such an extent that the police must take positive action to combat this dire campaign. The police in Japan are quite capable of safeguarding the nation's secrets and its social and moral standards by the routine method adopted everywhere else, that of dealing with individual cases in accordance with ordinary powers and the law of the land. The suggestion that a special campaign is necessary, whether fostered by police or press, is simply to stir up anti-foreignism and to suggest to foreigners abroad that Japan is a good place to keep out of, both for business and for pleasure. And this is started at a time when Japan is planning by every means in her power to attract foreigners to these shores. It can thus be said that this specially directed campaign is not only international bad manners, but also national bad business, and the sooner we hear the end of it the better for everybody concerned.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3, to despatch
No. 2060, dated Sept. 29, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.

# The Japan Chronicle.

Kobe, Wednesday, Sept. 9, 1936.

## INNOCENT MAIDENS AND FOREIGN SPIES

EVERY man of feeling wants to shoot the villain who, in the movies, makes love to a lady and heartlessly leaves her forlorn in order to promote his base profession of espionage, but he consoles himself with the reflection that such scoundrels do not really exist. But, according to Domei they exist in quite large numbers, and the police are already getting anxious about the number of them that there may be in Japan when the Olympic Games take place in 1940. As expressed in the Japan Advertiser, the Metropolitan Police Board is giving attention to the problem of guarding Japanese womanhood from international scandals. The best thing would be to give the girls a course of the Ona Daigaku, the precepts of which are, perhaps, being forgotten in those degenerate days. If woman once thoroughly understands that her place is the home, and acts on the excellent principle of “a place for everything and everything in its place,” then there will be no more trouble. But alas! in these days there is altogether too much liberty. Japan has become intoxicated with pernicious foreign ideas, and, while much has been done during the past decade in the way of uprooting liberty, people still go rushing about doing whatever their frivolous minds suggest to them, and thus women get into trouble. Of the Metropolitan Police Board we are told by Domei that

The foreign affairs section of the board has learned much about the problem in the gathering in since the February 26th incident of foreigners suspected of espionage and Japanese girls associated with them and in the usual vigilance against secret prostitution. It has been found that the foreigners are always to blame.

We heard, after February 26th, of exalted officers, especially General Gount Terauchi, pointing out to the public at large that the civil community must bear its share of the blame even if the trouble appeared to be a purely military one. But though there were obscure hints that the trouble had some Communist factors in its fomenting, this is the first reference to the affair of February 26th causing special vigilance to be exercised over foreigners. Were they suspected of playing their part in the tragic events of that dreadful morning? Perhaps it was only an instance of routine vigilance being keyed up to a high pitch by extraordinary events. It will be remembered that, on the heels of the Kwanto earthquake in 1923, there was a general round-up of dangerous thinkers; so, after the affair of February 26th, it was only natural that there should be an enhancement of the spionitis which had for some time past been a marked feature of activity. Watching foreigners who, for some reason or for no reason at all, are suspected of espionage, they have found that in some cases they were carrying on an affair with a Japanese woman, and this increased the suspicion. What service in espionage the sort of woman who easily enters into relations with a foreigner could possibly be is not explained. If the same charmers were found also to have as lovers Japanese who were possessed of military secrets, then there might be something to suspect, but short of this, the idea of linking common concubinage with espionage is fantastic to a degree. And it seems a little hard to say, “the foreigners are always to blame.” No doubt, when a man is approached by a procuresse, who undertakes to find him an agreeable partner for a small sum, he should indignantly repel such a sordid suggestion. But, men being what they are, they do not always ride the high horse of masculine chastity, and so incur the pronouncement that they are always to blame.

The police are not wholly puritanical, however, and do not insist on the foreigner maintaining a higher standard of morality than has ever been found practicable outside a monastery.

Domei claims that the Metropolitan Police Board has worked out a definition of an “immoral foreigner.” He is one who at any one time has relations with more than one woman. When a foreigner comes under this definition, his employer will be notified and warned. If he fails to reform, he will be deported.

This reminds one of what Byron says of Italy in his time. Of course, what Byron said was no more evidence than what Shakespeare said. But Byron, for what it is worth,

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

said that the chaste wife in Italian society as he knew it was one who had only one lover. Do the Metropolitan Police have the same ideas about the chaste husband? Or do they insist that the married foreigner must be entirely blameless? It seems in either case to be setting a much higher standard for the foreigner than for the Japanese; but this is commonly done; in commercial lawsuits a higher standard is usually exacted of the foreign defendant than of the Japanese defendant. Just what is to be done when the "immoral foreigner" is head of the firm is not very clear, but it is to be presumed that the notification and warning will in that case be addressed to him direct. Presumably in all this the provision made officially for male incontinence is not reckoned in. Some time ago a Japanese judge declared that the husband's obligation to virtue was on the same level with the wife's; whereupon one indignant old gentleman in the House of Peers declared that this was nonsense and, if accepted, would result in hysterical women rushing off to the police whenever their husbands visited the licensed quarters. Where it is considered unreasonable for a wife to complain, it can hardly be supposed that the foreign contributor to the Government revenues can be regarded as any more "immoral" than the Japanese contributor.

It is said, and we have never heard it denied, that large numbers of Japanese abroad spend quite a lot of their time in amateur espionage of a mild type, photographing everything that looks as though it might have some military significance, and taking note of it every time they see a soldier, and writing to their home authorities about it. This must be the reason why every foreigner is regarded as a probable spy, and is the cause of endless trouble to perfectly innocent tourists and to equally innocent residents—innocent, that is, of espionage. Evidently the police never suspect even the frailest of Japanese womenkind as capable of traitorous venality, though from some of the foreign films they see they must have thought at times of the havoc that a woman spy could work. As it is, however,

Girls have worked as spies without realizing what they were doing, merely trying to please their alien lovers. On their side, the relations are simple love affairs. It is believed that this is made possible, says the news agency, by the blind admiration of Japanese women for foreigners.

This "blind admiration" sounds rather derogatory, but some time ago a Japanese writer, on the occasion of some scandal in which an "immoral foreigner" was involved, said that Japanese women met with so little politeness at masculine hands, that when a man was nice to them it quite overcame them. Are we to suppose that even the Japanese Don Juan treats the inferior sex with the contempt that, according to Kalbara, it deserves?

There is to be some practical work done: not all the time is to be wasted on theory.

As part of the new positive policy, six of the twelve detectives in the service of the foreign affairs section are to devote themselves to the control of morals. They will watch very closely those who frequent a certain Marurouchi hotel, a certain Nihonbashi apartment house and a certain Ochanomisu apartment house which have become notorious as centres of foreigners' love affairs. Each of these places will have its own detective.

This sounds a very indirect way of catching spies, which was apparently the chief idea at the outset. It is paying the foreigner too much honour to believe that he cultivates dissolute habits only in the service of his country; and it has become so obvious by this time that dissolute habits attract suspicion instead of allaying it, that a Japanese author might at any time write a new version of the Forty-Seven Ronin in which Oishi Kuranosuke eschews all tea-houses in case his frequenting of them gain him a reputation for dangerous thinking or espionage. His exploits in the Ichiriki would bring him under immediate suspicion to-day. Times have changed indeed.

And finally, there is no foolish confusion of innocence with ignorance in Japan.

Attention will be drawn to the evils of relations with foreigners of this type in lectures at girls' schools.

So in future when a foreigner passes three little maids from school, he need not expect them to admire him blindly. They will look on him with dread and abhorrence as a man who may trifle with their affections and try to ruin their country at the same time.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser.

Tokyo, Sunday, September 20, 1936.

# READERS IN COUNCIL

## Those "Immoral Foreigners"

To the Editor:

"When you are in Rome, do as Romans do"—In answer to the articles written by "Not the first stone" and "Sarnia" which appeared in your columns consecutively last week. I would say that when we say "Immoral Foreigner," it is simple, we mean immoral foreigners who abuse our hospitality, prey on our innocent young maidens, practice free love which we do not approve, and above all, with the influence of money and prestige, reduce and debase our Japanese womanhood. It is not a question of whether a foreigner has one or two affairs at any given time.

Did any foreign adventurers bring any Christian virtue that they profess to those virgin Pacific islands when they made in roads? They brought the nefarious syphilis in its stead. Whether you like it or not, we do not tolerate the practice of free love nor your loose moral standards of quick divorce and shameless ero-demonstrations. Neither do we wish to be contaminated with the virus of indecency.

Most foreigners in our Meiji Era were honorable men, but now we have too many Shanghai transhipped adventurers, who do not know what decency is, among us. They create distinctly obnoxious impressions on the minds of better type Japanese which are bound to create repercussion in near future. Be a Roman when you are in Rome and furthermore, this is not London nor is it New York. Japan will proceed in her own way, and if you know which side your bread is buttered on, you had better mind your own business.

I. UEDA

Kobe, September 15, 1936

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
894.4065 OLYMPIC GAMES/7

# DOCUMENT FILE

## NOTE

SEE 11.4063 Olympic Games/390 FOR Note

FROM Japanese Embassy ( ) DATED August 14, 1936
TO NAME 1-1127 GPO

REGARDING: 12th Olympic Games to be held in 1940 in Japan. Question arises as to the right of registration as trade-mark or design of the "five-ring Olympic Emblem" requests to be informed what restriction or control exercised with respect to the use of the Olympic Emblem was in effect in the U.S. when the 10th Olympiad was held

drp

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 14, 1937.

Mukden's May 9, 1937, entitled "Manchukuo's Participation in the Olympic Games of 1940."

Mr. William Garland, American member of the International Olympic Committee, stated at a reception in Mukden on May 4, 1937, that he agreed to the participation of "Manchukuo" in the Olympic Games to be held in 1940.

Subsequently, in private conversation with Mr. Garland, the American Consul expressed doubt of the wisdom of Mr. Garland's remarks in view of (1) the aversion of the Chinese to participation with "Manchukuo" in such games, and (2) the probability that any delegation selected to represent "Manchukuo" would be predominantly if not wholly composed of Japanese athletes.

The issue raised by (1) is not one in which the Department should become involved. (2) is hypothetical. No action required.

/HES
FE:HES:VCI

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.91)
Copy in FE
74.4063- Olympic Games
File
SE
A-9

No. - - - -

AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Mukden, Manchuria, May 19, 1937.

SUBJECT: "Manchukuo's" Participation in the Olympic Games of 1940.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
IN 14 1937
Department of State

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of my despatch No. 113, dated May 1, 1937, to the American Embassy, Peiping, China, entitled "Manchukuo's" Participation in the Olympic Games of 1940".

Very respectfully yours,

M. R. Langdon,
American Consul.

Enclosure:
1/- Copy of despatch No. 113 to Embassy, Peiping.

In quintuplicate to the Department.

840.6
WYP
R

FILED
MAR 22 1937

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
118.

AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
Mukden, Manchuria, May 19, 1937.

SUBJECT: "Manchukuo's" Participation in the Olympic Games of 1940.

The Honorable
Nelson Trusler Johnson,
American Ambassador,
Peiping, China.

Sir:

I have the honor to report certain statements made at Mukden by Mr. William May Garland, American member of the International Olympic Committee, while enroute to Peiping on May 4, 1937.

At a reception given in his honor by the "Manchukuo" Athletic Association, Mr. Garland was lauded for his efforts in support of holding the Olympic Games of 1940 in Japan and the hope was expressed that he would also look favorably upon the desire of "Manchukuo" to take part in the Games at Tokyo in 1940.

In reply Mr. Garland stated, "I agree with the participation of 'Manchukuo' in the Olympic Games, and I am sure that the entry of the new state will be made possible when the subject is submitted to the International Olympic Committee meeting to be opened at Warsaw by Viscount Michinasa Soejima and Mr. Jigoro Kano, Japanese members. They are greatly respected among International Olympic Committee members". Mr. Garland expressed a like

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

went at a dinner given in his honor by Mr. Teiso Sakiya, Manager of the Mukden Administration Office of the South Manchuria Railway Company, at which I was present.

In the course of a conversation with me while a guest at my home, Mr. Garland asked my opinion of his remarks at the reception referred to above. I told Mr. Garland that with the possible exception of association football there is at the present time little participation in athletics by Chinese in this area and that any delegation selected to represent "Manchukuo" in the Olympic Games would, I thought, be predominantly if not wholly composed of Japanese, who, if able to qualify, could in any case join the Japanese delegation. Thus I could see no practical advantage in the attendance of such a delegation. I also told him that, judging from the refusal of China to participate in the Far Eastern Games at Manila in 1934 if "Manchukuo" also participated and from China's more recent refusal to attend the World Educational Conference to be held at Tokyo in August of this year unless "Manchukuo" is excluded, participation of "Manchukuo" in the 1940 Olympics might very well result in China's withdrawal therefrom.

Very respectfully yours,

Wm. R. Langdon,
American Consul.

Five copies to Department by despatch No. ---
dated May 19, 1937.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.
Copy to Consulate, Dairen.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
Division of FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 11 1938
Department of State
120 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
5 RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1938 JUN 10 AM 9 42
Hon. Cordell Hall,
Secretary COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
June 9, 1938.
Ack'd
894.4063 Olympic Games
4 JUN 12 1938.
My dear Secretary...
I know so little about many things with which I wish I were familiar that this note may itself be an impropriety. Its written by a fellow who hopes he is a decent citizen, who is possibly on the outer fringe of economic regulation — who is regarded as a semi-New Dealer in Wall Street, and at least a semi-economic Regulator in Washington. So much for identification and self confession.
His morning's dispatches announce the resignation of W. J. Bingham of Harvard from the American Olympic (Games) Committee because he feels the impropriety and international immorality of American participants in the games scheduled to be held next in Japan.
I am heartdick at what is going on in China — yet helpless. I can as an individual refrain from
894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES/9
FILED JUN 17 1938
F/FG

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
purchasing anything Japanese, and have done
and urged others to do likewise. I am sending
a little money to the Chinese.

It would seem to me at least possible that
you might, informally at least, consider the
propriety of American participation in the "Japanese"
Olympics.

On the Sino-Japanese question I believe
American sympathies are more nearly unified than
our any major issues with which I am
familiar - but we seem to helpless.

Many a times, viewing a Washington with which
I have frequently been out of sympathy ... though
at times in close sympathy. I say 'Thank God
for Secretary Hull.'

I hope you will pardon the presumption
of his note.

Yours truly
A. F. Hettinger Jr.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.93)
June 15 1938.

My dear Mr. Hottinger:

The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of June 9, 1938, with regard to American participation in the Olympic Games to be held in Japan.

The views expressed in your letter have received careful consideration, and the spirit which prompted you to bring them to the Department's attention is very much appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

For the Secretary of State:

Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs

Mr. A. J. Hottinger, Jr.,
120 Broadway,
New York, New York.

CR
JUN 15 1938
E.g.C.
FE:BOW:MJY
6-15-38

A true copy of the signed original. 6/14

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
# DOCUMENT FILE

## NOTE

SEE 860d.4063 Olympic Games/1 FOR #634

FROM Finland (Schoenfeld) DATED July 20, 1938
TO NAME 1-1127

REGARDING: Olympic games to be held in 1940. Due to inability of Japan to arrange for the -, Finnish member of the Committee was notified that the games could be held in Helsinki if acceptable to National and Municipal authorities. A resolution was passed directing Finnish representative to express willingness of Helsinki to make the arrangements.

8e

894.4063 OLYMPIC GAMES /IC
DG
/D
