894.85893 Merchant Vessels. Yachts. Immunities Of Government -Controlled., Offense Committed On Merchant Vessels Of Country Y In Japan. Nationality Of Vessel., November 29, 1949 (File 1795)
ID: 894.85893-1795   Pages: 5   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.85893-merchant-vessels-yachts
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
NOV 29 1949

SECRET

No.

John J. MacDonald, Esquire
American Consul General,
Taipei, Taiwan.

Sir:

There is forwarded herewith a copy of an instruction, less its enclosures, sent as of this date to the American Charge d'Affaires at Hong Kong. You will note that he is requested to approach the appropriate officials of the Chinese Government with a view to preventing further seizures of Japanese fishing vessels by Chinese patrols and with a view to securing a release of all Japanese vessels together with their crews now held by Chinese authorities.

In view of the importance which the Department attaches to this matter, it is requested that you make a supplementary approach to the appropriate Taiwan authorities along the lines suggested in the attached instruction.

Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:

Enclosure:
Instruction to American Charge d'Affaires, Hong Kong.

FE: NA: MGreen: jh
11/25/49

Clared with CA
MG.

SECRET

894.85893/11-2949
SECRET
894.85893/11-2949

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
NOV 29 1946

SECRET

No.

Robert C. Strong, Esquire,
American Charge d'Affaires ad interim,
Hong Kong.

Sir:

Your attention is called to the seizure by Chinese patrols of Japanese fishing vessels operating on the high seas both inside and outside the area authorized by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. Since May, 1949, eleven Japanese fishing vessels have been reported seized by Chinese patrols. Only two of these vessels were returned to Japan. It is the position of SCAP that all Japanese fishing activities on the high seas are governed by his directives establishing the authorized fishing area, that these directives are subject to enforcement by him alone, and that he, or his designated agents, have the sole responsibility to deal with violations of these directives. This position is concurred in and supported by the Government of the United States.

On May 8, 1948, the Chinese Mission in Tokyo protested to the Diplomatic Section, SCAP Headquarters, that, despite efforts of General Headquarters to deal with movements of Japanese fishing vessels outside the authorized fishing area, such violations were still continuing, and that the Chinese Mission had been directed by the Chinese Government to notify the Japanese Government through General Headquarters "that the Chinese Government will have to take appropriate measures, unless such violations are effectively checked." In reply, the Diplomatic Section on June 22, 1948, requested the Chinese Mission to obtain in each case of reported violation information of sufficient probative value to permit effective prosecution of the offenders, and further noted that Japanese fishing activities on the high seas were governed by the Supreme Commander's directives which were subject to enforcement by the Supreme Commander alone.

On

SECRET

894.85893/11-2949
CS/H
894.85893/11-2949 8
SECRET FILE

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
-2-

On January 24, 1949, the Diplomatic Section, SCAP, requested information of the Chinese Mission in Tokyo concerning a law published in the August 29, 1948, issue of the Chinese newspaper, Ta Kung Pao, and reportedly passed by the Legislative Yuan providing for the seizure and disposition of Japanese fishing vessels found operating on the high seas outside the authorized fishing area. It was again stated that "Japanese fishing activities on the high seas are governed entirely by directives issued by the Supreme Commander which are accordingly subject to enforcement by the Supreme Commander only." In this communication the Mission was also reminded of the desire of the Supreme Commander that, in the event of violations by Japanese of the Supreme Commander's directive governing fishing on the high seas, the Mission report such cases to the Supreme Commander with information of sufficient probative value that the offenders could be effectively prosecuted.

The Chinese Mission replied on May 14, 1949, that the so-called "law" was not a law but in the nature of an executive order, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and approved by the Executive Yuan, which became effective as of August 5, 1948. It was stated that according to Articles 1 and 2 the application of the order was limited "to those cases of Japanese fishing vessels found operating beyond the SCAP-authorized areas which are to include those areas lying between China's territorial waters and the high seas in which China has hitherto had traditional fishing interests." The Chinese Mission's communication attempted to justify this action as being in conformity with a proposed policy decision on fishing and aquatic industries in Japan forwarded to the Steering Committee, Far Eastern Commission, at its 144th meeting on March 15, 1949.

On July 18 the Diplomatic Section sent a strong protest to the Chinese Mission over seizures of Japanese fishing vessels, the Chinese attempt to justify the Executive Order of August 5, 1948, on the basis of a Far Eastern Commission working paper, and the claim of the right to seize Japanese vessels on the high seas by virtue of "traditional fishing interests" in the area. The Chinese Mission was requested to inform the Chinese Government of the Supreme Commander's concern over this matter and of his desire that seizures of Japanese vessels cease immediately. It was also requested that all vessels seized be released and returned to Japan with their crews, along with detailed reports of each incident in order that the persons responsible might be brought to trial in Japan in case the vessels violated the Supreme Commander's directive by proceeding beyond the limits of the authorized fishing area.

On June

SECRET

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
-3-

On June 27, 1949, the Diplomatic Section sent a further protest to the Chinese Mission over the seizure of Japanese vessels by Chinese naval patrols. Again it pointed out that "it is the responsibility of the Supreme Commander as the sole executive for the Allied Powers, not the responsibility of any Allied Power individually, to deal with such violations and take whatever steps are necessary to insure enforcement of the Supreme Commander's directive." The Supreme Commander additionally requested that in view of the reported use of some of these vessels for military purposes, the Chinese Mission secure a full report.

A further protest was lodged with the Chinese Mission on August 8, 1949, in regard to the capture of seven other Japanese vessels by Chinese patrols.

On August 23, 1949, the Diplomatic Section also asked the Chinese Mission to consider the case of the Akashi Maru No. 105, which was reliably reported to have been forcibly seized by an armed Chinese vessel in the East China Sea on June 10, 1949, taken in tow by the Chinese and later sunk by gun fire, resulting in the death of eight of its twelve-man crew.

On September 19, 1949, in a letter to the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense requested that the Department of State, "in view of the gravity of the situation and the apparent unwillingness of the Chinese Government to recognize SCAP as the sole authority governing Japanese activity on the high seas," support the SCAP policy and position on this matter by "approaching the Chinese Government directly in an effort to secure proper, peaceful activities on the high seas, cessation of further seizures, and a release of all vessels together with their Japanese crews now held by Chinese authorities."

On the basis of the above information and in your discretion, you are requested to approach the appropriate officials of the Chinese Government with a view to securing proper recognition of SCAP as the sole executive authority governing Japanese activities on the high seas, the cessation of further seizures by Chinese patrols, and the release of all vessels together with their crews now held by the Chinese authorities. As has been indicated in the various notes from the Diplomatic Section to the Chinese Mission in Tokyo emphasis should be placed predominantly on the position that Japanese fishing activities on the high seas are governed entirely by directives issued by the Supreme Commander, which are accordingly subject to enforcement by the Supreme Commander only.

In this connection it may be desirable to inform the Chinese Government that pursuant to a directive from the SCAP the Japanese Government has placed in service a fleet of inspection vessels whose function is to check directly and by radio on the operations of all offshore fishing vessels and report those which operate outside the authorized area. The Japanese Government has also established a schedule of penalties for violation of the authorized fishing area which include confiscation of the catch or fishing gear, sentencing of the boat captain to penal servitude not to

SECRET

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-4-

exceed ten years and to a fine not to exceed 75,000 yen and administrative cancellation of the vessel's fishing license.

It is also requested that the Chinese Government be informed of the decided burden that this seizure of vessels and confiscation of catch is placing on the Japanese economy in that such activities represent a financial loss to the Japanese fishing industry and have the effect of discouraging Japanese fishermen from even venturing into the authorized area.

Should the Chinese Government attempt to justify its actions on the continued existence of a legal state of war with Japan pending the signing of a peace treaty, the position should be taken that the Chinese, along with the other Allied Powers, agreed that SCAP should be the "sole executive authority for the Allied Powers in Japan".

Should the Chinese Government take the position that the United States, in President Truman's Proclamation of September 28, 1945, on the Coastal Fisheries in Certain Areas of the High Seas, a copy of which is enclosed, recognized the existence of areas of direct concern in fisheries on the high seas, it should be pointed out that although the United States is committed to the principle of the conservation of fisheries on the high seas, the United States expects to accomplish this through multilateral treaties and not by unilateral declarations of zones of "direct concern".

There are also enclosed for your information copies of the pertinent despatches from the Office of the Acting Political Adviser in Tokyo.

It is also requested that the Department be informed of the reply of the Chinese Government in this matter.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State:

W. W. Watson Dutterworth

Enclosures:
1. Proclamation by the President (copy).
2. Despatch No. 52 from Tokyo dated January 25, 1949.
3. Despatch No. 553 from Tokyo dated August 13, 1949.
4. Despatch No. 573 from Tokyo dated August 23, 1949.
5. Despatch No. 638 from Tokyo dated September 15, 1949.

SECRET
FE:NADALDunning:lk/pm
11/22/49

Cleared with Mr. Ramsey by H.M.
Cleared with Mr. Stow by H.M.
L/P CA
HCD
