894.51 Japan, Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., January 16, 1938 - April 26, 1938 (File 1017)
ID: 894.51-1017   Pages: 94   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.51-japan-financial-conditions-10
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.86)
5
Jannminay 0, 938.
RECEIVED
EPARTMENT OF STAL
1938 JAN 22 PM 12 19
27 1938
DIVISION OF
Washingtm. D. C.
Division o
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 2419380
Rir:
Wepartment ofae
894.5
/5
45
Ia  are   and 
fom Jupran netimately rsnet, camed mot the
Unisted Staths acenmplish unnch for Warld
AN2 1938
FILED
stahility by a faurable cmeideration?
Jaring a lorgview mto the future it wareld
Deem that an aortunity may te presctto the
MR
feople of this cruty Ahmed the ore meutined
stems eveutuate in action.
Very rmoprctfully yours,
Aff.Barler.
Mondm, Mich.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
oply refer to
804.51/545
My dear VMr. aker:
The receipt is ec'novied or vur letter
January 20, 1936, in re are to re orts to the effect
894.51/545
that Japan may soon be seeking a loan in the United
States.
The viows expressed in your lettor have rece vod
careful consideration and the spirit w ioi prompted you
to brin them to the De artment's attention is appre-
oiated. The Departmont 1s not eware of any proposed
loans to Japan by American  anking or commercial inter-
ests.
Sinoerely youra,
For the Secretary of State:
/MR
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Mr. S. J. Baker,
Mendon, Michigan.
JAN
258
Eg.C.
FE:ESC:HES
FE
Ti
1-25

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
3
RECEIVED
February 19 193
844.51
Jan. 16, 1938.
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
n
FOR ACKNOWLEDGMENT
AND CONSIDERATION
The White House,
Washington, D.C., DIVISION OF
COMMUNICITIONS
Dear President RoosANeRtnDS
Secretary to the President
A column just read in the New York Times impels me to write
to you. I am an American missionary of the M.E. church, on furlough from
China, whence I returned in February of last year. At that time all was at
peace.
Day before yesterday I received a letter written by a doctor
of our mission. He is an honor graduate from Yale, a missionary of many years'
experience in china as physician and surgeon, evangelist, and teacher, as well
as statesman. Enclosed is a copy of this letter, which I am sharing with you
without his consent, and am therefore withholding his name, altho you may
have it if needed. When you read this letter, you will realize better than ever
what conditions are there, and are likely to be in the rest of the world, if +
things go on as they are now. You will also know why I make the request that
follows in this letter:
The Times days that Japan is asking for a credit of
$50,o00,o00 with which to develop Manchukuoh with machinery bought on this
credit. American financiers should by all means refuse to grant this credit;
because,
1. Money already in Japan will be released by this loan to be invested in ma-
9
terials used to prosecute the war with China. By all means we want as a nation
to avoid helping continue this war.
2. Japan's word is not to be trusted. The $50,000,000 may in some way itself
be used in whole or in part for war materials.
3. Manchukuoh does not rightfully belong to Japan; the province would rather
go undeveloped than have it done by Japan; and it will be rightfully developed
and will co-operate willingly in the development when it is done by Chine and
E
its own people. Unless so done, it will delay such development as much a
6
D
possible.
3
4. Japan does not want this money at this time, I dare say, to "develop" Man-
chukuoh as we would wish to see it done; Japan is too busy with her war to
carry on the works of peace at present.
5. America cannot afford, from any angle, to help China againstJapan in an
unrighteous war; whether we eonsider justice, or American investments in China,
or future prospects of peace, or aimply the question of what is right, always
the main issue
That loan should be refused!
If it be said,"To refuse will be considered an unfriendly act," I should
G
answer:

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
erica, because of her situation geographically and otherwise, need
outbreak of war against her less than any other country one can name.
Some country must do something to change the present situation, or an
even greater wrong to China, and the world, an even more serious international
situation, is before us.
3. If nothing is done to stop this war, America is bound to be drawn into war
in the end; for, sooner or later, war will spread.
4. Not every people and nation must fear Japan; fear of sin and injustice
and evil must be greater. People are expecting greater things of America
in this Eastern situation than we have seen thus far, and we must not continue
to disappoint them!
I ask you please to use every means in your power to keep our business
men from selling out our ideals and our hopes for $50,000,000.
Respectfully yours,
May BelThompoon

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
consider welfare of informant
and regard this information as confidential.,
Friends and Sharers in the work of the Kingdom over here,
From present appearances it may not be 
long before we shall not be able to write freely, and for that reason a gener
letter is soon again going out to you to add a few matters of the situation 
in China, and of how it looks to us. Many people here are perfectly convinced
that the conquest of China is only a kind of first step tpward the realizatio
of the ambitions of Japan. The man whom I believe to be the best informed in
our city, a Britisher, and a friend of many Chinese officials said without
the slightest hesitation that the next move after taking China would be the
Philippines, Borneo, and move down toward Australia.
That the Japanese have been working up an anti-American sentiment in their
own land,. is only too certain, and also that they in their language have
changed the mame for"America" They usedto call it by a name which means
"the beautiful country". Now they call it by a name which means "the rice
country", because they mean to eat it up like rice.
Please do not think that I concern myself to any great extent with politicai
matters. I have far too much to do in the medical and evangelistic work to
indulge in that, but it does seem to me that America ought to know what is
the prevailing sentiment out here.
By the time this letter reaches you, things will have changed vastly from
what they are to-day. At present the Japanese say that they want nothing be-
yond the capital in Nanking, which means that this part of the world west of
it would not be invaded. At all events it would seem wise if they did stop
at Nanking for a while, that is, for their own good. The most recent news
which comes to us is that of the bombing of several cities between Shanghai
and Nanking. Newspuper reports and the word of the people who have been in
few of these places bear evidence of the appalling loss of life among the civ
lian population at Soochow. A foreign newspaper says that the planes which
dropped 7oo bombs on that beautiful and very populous city, went along overhe
as one would sow a field of wheat, repeating their flights in parallel col-
umns, and then they made parallelx lines at right angles to these. A place
called Chanchow on the railroad nearer to Nanking than Soochow is, was also
bombed very terribly. A servant who was talking about it to one of the mis-
sionaries staying at present in Kiukiang, was pitifully undone nervously by
the experience. This servant said that the place was bombed by loo Japanese
planes. Another city which is something of an industrial center, called Wusir
is reported as very badly damaged or destroyed. I can't help wondering whether
the civilized world is going to settle down peacefully to accept this sort of
thing with regard to civilian populations. That night when our city was bom
ed, we had warning quite a while before planes came. I was bracing my nerves
for the possible bombing which might be coming, but when it began, it was
something of a psychic shock, not alone, by any means, because of the crashe
involved, but to actually realize that people would rain missles of death on
a practically defenseless people and one that was so innocent into the bargai
Please notice that I am not telling you the most incrddibly awfyl stories witi
regard to the areas that have already been occupied by the Japanese. Some o
these things are perfectly fiendish, and I think are no doubt, in part at
least, propaganda. But I do want you to realize the dreadfulness of whole-
sale attacks upon cities. It is nothing but a return to barbarism of centu
bies ago. And it is a very vital question as to just what the civilized
world is going to do about it. Only a few days ago a letter came from a
Iriend in New York State referring to conditions here in China, and obviously

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
2.
hat they were as remote from himself and his loved ones as if it
disturbance on Mars or Arcturus. Permit me to say again that it i
most universal opinion out here that there won't be any place that w
afe after a while.
nen a fire breaks out in a city or in the country, there is the most ingen
lous and commendable speed employed in getting the fire out. To my mind thi
seems like a fire in the world which ought to be dealt with in tim for suoh
things certainly can spread. The two things which Japan has lacked in their
dream of conquest have been raw material and man power; these two lie befor
them in this unusual land of China. It is a perfect treasurehouse of raw ma
rial. To suggest only one item, every one of the eighteen provinces has coa
in it. Man power, of course, is unlimited, and can be impressed into servic
in a way by which the wretched inhabitants of Manchukuoh have been driven int
military service in this present conflict. Despite the so-called poverty of
China, there is both actual and potential wealth in all parts of this great
land.
The wholesale bombing of cities by the Japanese has been described as"puni
ment" which is perhaps a clever psychological suggestion on their part; for
people who hear about "punishment" instinctively feel that it is a just reti
bution for some real offense. How little offense there has been, is known or
to the people who have lived in this land and have become familiar with the
demands and aggression of the neighbor power. If I'm not mistaken, the "Twer
one Demands" of Japan on China were formulated more than twenty years ago an
were aimed at taking away China's sovreign rights and also her opportunities
progress and development. It certainly seems terrible that the nations that
in advance of the others do not seek for their elevation and progress as soc
ety does, as in the case of children or those who have not had early advanta
In the case of China and Japan, there is not only no desire to help China fo
ward on the part of Japan, but an apparent determination to destroy the pro-
gress already made, and to check and put backward a country that has been so
ready for all progress and full of commendable ambition during these past de
ades. On wholly reliable information, let me say that a large area of Japan'
recently acquired possessions which was making progress in its education, or
least had schools of higher grade, has to-day only lower primary schools.
With regard to institutions of higher learning since the Japanese invasion
began, about four months ago, there have been destroyed no less than twentys:
colleges or institutions of college equivalent (that is, above high school
grade.) One of the big foreign dailies gave a list of those institutions not
long ago. Among them were a number of medical schools whose destruction seems
particularly pitiful just now, because of the great need of medical care of
severely wounded people.
Naturally as ambassadors for Christ's Kingdom, such things as I have been tel
ing you, and in particular the frightful stories that come to us about conque
ed regions, are matters about which we have little to say with our Chinese f
friends. We do not wish to foment any hatred. In fact, I have been amazed by
attitude of many of the Chinese Christians whom I have heard praying for Jap
an. Our own little Jean (adopted) only six years old, and whose little Chines
heart has naturally been torn by what she has picked up, prayed the other night
something like this,"God, tell the Japanese to be kind to us."
Treaty
The tragic breakdown of the Nine Power Conference certainly gives one pause.
The Britisher referred to above, who has recently had a Gonference with China
highest official, expressed it as his opinion that unless there was help
forthcoming from the world's respectable nations, China would go red. That is
that they would be driven to seek the help of their neighbor, Soviet Russia,
and that is not according to the general wish or sentiment of the Chinese.Chine
has been trying to keep sane, and many of you will remember that the @eneral-

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
3。
ng Kai-Shek spent several years in the extensive campaigns again
orde in China.
nina is ready to advance and keep step with the progressof other na
of the best type and take her place as one of the peace-loving, educa
n-loving and progress-furthering nations of the earth. May God grant the
1 this possibility may not be thwarted and destroyed at a time when the wo
world needs the kind of nation that China can readily become.
(Underlining, except in one case, not in the original).

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
Fruary 19 1938
In reply refer to
TR 894.51/546
My dear Miss Thompson:
The receipt 1s aoknowledged, by referenoe from the
894.51/546
White House, of your letter of Januery 16, 1938, addressed
to the President, enclosing a copy of a letter which you
have received from a medical missionary in China with re-
gard to the situation in that country.
Your letter of January 18 addressed to the President
would appear to be identical with one which you addrossed
on the same date to the Department of State and to which
reply was made on January 26.
As indicated in the Department's letter to you of
January 26, your courtesy in bringing this matter to the
attention cf the Government is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
33.12.
F/M
Marwell M. Hamilton
CR
Chief
18 1938.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
FED
Miss May Bel Thompsen
A true cony of
New Yerk, Eew York.
the siurnd origi-
89.C.
FE:DNC:HES:NN
FR
2/17/38

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
JAN 22 1938
ADVISER ON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tile
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMI
JAN 24 1938
January 13, 1938.
Mr. Feis:
894.51
Letter of December 23 from Commercial Attaché
Williams, Tokyo, to Finance Division, Department of
894.51/547
Commerce, referred to in Tokyo's cable No.13 of Janu-
ary 10, ten a.m., arrived by pouch January 10. This
extended report, in response to inquiries contained in
letter of Finance Division dated October 5, clears up
certain points concerning basis of valuation in official
reports of Japanese-held foreign securities and foreign
bank balances, and gives details regarding setting up
and disposition of the Government's Gold Fund Special
Account in connection with the legal devaluation of
the yen last August, confirming information which I
had previously obtained through the Federal Reserve
F/
Board. Williams' letter, while useful for reference
purposes, adds little, however, to the collected infor-
FILED
mation and data on which was based my memorandum of
January 7 on "Japan's Foreign Exchange Resources at the
End of 1937", nor does it suggest any significant revi-
sion of the estimates contained in that memorandum.
The

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
The following comments are submitted in amplifica-
tion or modification of contents of the above-mentioned
memorandum.
I. Japanese Gold Holdings and Production
On the basis of gold stocks of Bank of Japan at end
of l936, and of estimated purchases and recorded ship-
ments of gold during 1937, Williams calculates (p. 8) the
amount of gold remaining as of December 1o in the Govern-
ment's speoial fund (apart from the Bank of Japan's fixed
currency reserve of 801 million revalued yen, or $26l
million) to be only 17,313 kilograms, equivalent to $20
million (1 kgm. fine gold = $1,125). Our own estimates
indicated Government gold holdings of at least double
that amount at the end of 1937. Williams' calculation,
however, does not allow for the $15 million in gold
turned over by the Banks of Taiwan and Chosen in connec-
tion with the Gold Revaluation Law and the setting up of
the Gold Fund Special Account last August. Neither does
it include gold purchases during December, which on the
basis of his estimate of purchases of 50,000 kilograms
between January 1 and November 30, 1937, or an average
of 4.5 metric tons per month, would be equivalent to
approximately $5 million. With these two adjustments,
a year-end figure of $4o million in Government-held gold
is indicated, identical with our minimum estimate.
The

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
The uncertain element in estimating the amount of
gold available for shipment from the Government's fund
1s the extent of replenishment through new purchases of
gold, whioh have not been officially reported since last
August. Purchases of newly mined gold from January 1,
1937 to the effective date of devaluation (August 25)
averaged 85,000 ounces, or $3 million, a month during
the first four months, but rose to a monthly average
of 150,000 ounces, or $5.5 m1llion, in the next four
months. If this rate of production can be maintained--
and every effort is being made to expand it--the Govern-
ment fund may be able to acquire between 5 and 6 million
dollars a month in new gold available for export. Al-
though this constitutes a recurring increment, it falls
far short of meeting export requirements on the scale
that obtained during 1937, when gold shipments abroad
were approximately five times as great as gold production
within the Japanese Empire.
II. Japanese Holdings of Foreign Securities
Williams gives a breakdown of Japanese-held foreign
securities as of April 30, 1937, being the latest figures
These may be com-
pared
1
The total amount of these holdings as of April 30,
1937 was reported in the Oriental Economist of October
1937, and is referred to in our memorandum (p. 8).

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
4
pared with figures issued from the same source, showing
the position at the end of September 1936.
Japanese-Owned Foreign Securities
(Expressed in thousands of yen at old mint par)
Sept. 30
Apr1l 30, 1937
Change
1936
Held at
Held
Home
Abroad
Total
State bonds.....
277,698
10,210
252,237 262,447 -15,251
Municipal bonds.
9,214
24
9,750
9,774 + 560
Corporate bonds.
23,000
132
20,222
20,353 - 2,736
Stock shares....
81,083
48,035
49,259
97,295 +16,211
Total..
391,085 58,401
331,468 389,869 - 1,216
The following comments on these figures are presented.
1. It is established through Williams' inquiries at
the Finance Ministry that yen values reported above repre-
sent conversion of the par values of foreign currency
securities at the old mint parities of 2.006 yen to the
dollar, 9.763 yen to the pound, etc. The nominal dollar
equivalent of the reported total holdings at the end of
April 1937 would be, therefore, approximately $195 mil-
lion.
2. Williams reports that it is impossible to obtain
a breakdown of these security holdings as to the national
currencies in which they are expressed, but states that
he is informed that the figures in question do not include
Chinese state loans nor Manchukuo state bonds issued in
Japan. Evidence from other sources indicates, however,
that

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
that the bulk of Japanese holdings of "foreign" corporate
bonds and shares consists of securities of Chinese or
Manchukuoan companies (in which Japanese have a control-
ling or joint interest) or of Japanese foreign subsid-
iaries. Dr. C. F. Remer, in his study of "Foreign
Investments in China", estimated Japanese investments in
Chinese corporations to exceed 77 million yen at the end
of 1930, since which they are known to have greatly in-
creased. Williams also states that the Finance Ministry's
figures do include shares issued in Manchukuo yen to the
amount of 23.5 million yen. It is to be noted from the
above table that Japanese holdings of foreign shares
increased by over 16 million yen between September 1936
and April 1937, doubtless accounted for mainly by in-
creased Japanese absorption of securities issued by
quasi-state enterprises in Manchukuo. Moreover, all
corporate bonds are carried in the table at their par
value. In view of these considerations, the amount of
foreign exchange that could be effectively realised
through the liquidation of the officially reported Japan-
ese holdings of foreign corporate securities (constitut-
ing nearly a third of all holdings of foreign securities)
may be regarded as relatively insignificant.
3. It is surmised that Japanese holdings of foreign
municipals

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
6
municipals (practically all of which are shown as being
held abroad) consist for the most part of obligations of
Chinese and Manchukuoan municipalities, owned by Japanese
banks and insurance companies in such areas. The avail
ability of these holdings for purposes of foreign ex-
change realisation may also be substantially disregarded.
4. Although holdings of foreign government bonds
are reported at the substantial figure of 262.4 mill1on
yen, or $18l million, (despite a decline of over 15
million yen from the corresponding figures at the end
of September 1936), 1t is to be noted that over 95 per
cent of these are shown as being held abroad. These
are presumably owned by Japanese banks, financial insti-
tutions, commercial enterprises and nationals located
abroad or held in trust for Japanese at home. Except
in the latter case, there are obvious limitations to
the extent to which the Government can compel Japanese
concerns or nationals abroad to give up their holdings
of foreign government bonds in exchange for yen securi-
ties or credits, especially where these bonds are held
as assets against foreign currency liabilities.
5. Williams states that the figures issued by the
Ministry of Finance include securities owned by branch
offices of foreign companies in Japan. Here again con-
siderable

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
7
siderable difficulty may be experienced by the Government
in compelling such concerns to surrender their holdings
of foreign currency securities.
6. In view of the above considerations, and of the
very limited extent of present Japanese holdings of
dollar securities, as indicated by investigations of the
United States Treasury Department, we are inclined to
estimate the amount of free foreign exchange that might
be realised from the commandeering and liquidation of
Japanese-held foreign securities as probably not more
than two fifths of the officially reported nominal
holdings of $195 million, or in the neighborhood of
75 to 85 million dollars.
III. Japanese Bank Balances Abroad
According to Ministry of Finance figures reported
by Williams, foreign currency balances held abroad by
Japanese institutions and nationals at the end of April
1937 stood as fo1lows:
Deposits
165.9 mi11ion yen
Advances
159.4
325.3
11
(1) Since it has been ascertained that these yen
figures were also converted at the old par of exchange,
total balances of about $162 million are indicated for
the above date. No breakdown is available as to the
distribution

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
8
distribution of these balances among different currencies
or the financial centers in which they were held, but the
total undoubtedly includes Japanese bank balances in
Chinese and Manchukuo currencies. Ordinarily larger
deposits and advances are held in London than in New
York, since imports from the British Empire and con-
tinental European countries are for the most part
finanoed through London.
(2) Williams reports (p. 4) that "each year the
War and Navy Departments transfer relatively large sums
abroad to finance purchases of armaments and war mate-
rials", and that he is informed that "the oredit bal-
ances remaining over at the end of the year from these
remittances have for several years been allowed to
remain abroad instead of being brought back to Japan."
The Finance Ministry's report on "The Invisible Trade
of Japan in 193" 1noludes a debit 1tem of 164.5 m1l-
lion yen under the entry "government payments abroad"
apart from "expenditures of Japanese government offi-
cials and offices abroad". The corresponding entry
for 1935 was 160 million yen. Since there were no
exports of gold from Japan in these years and since the
merchandise trade balance was adverse, such Government
payments abroad were presumably financed through the
proceeds

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
9
proceeds of Japan's invisible exports, sale of foreign
securities or short-term credits abroad. Instead of
actual remittances abroad being made by the Government,
it is probable that there was acquired for Government
account as needed a certain amount of foreign balances
or credits accruing to Japanese exporters, shipping com-
panies and financial institutions. It is doubtful if
the Government itself maintained any substantial bal-
ances abroad.
(3) It is known that Japanese bank balances abroad
were reduced to a very low level last September. By the
end of August the foreign trade of the Japanese Empire
showed an import excess of 775 million yen. Excluding
trade with Manchukuo and Kwantung Territory, the exter-
nal trade deficit exceeded 9oo million. Subsequent gold
shipments and the emergence of small export surpluses
since August have served to ease the situation tempo-
rarily, and according to checks made by the United States
Treasury Department, Japanese bank balances in New York
City amounted to $43 million at the end of the year, com-
pared to a net overdraft of $1 million in mid-September.
(4) Information is lacking as to the extent of
present Japanese bank balances in London. The Treasury
Department guessed at the end of November that they
might

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
might be between 2 and 4 million pounds, which would be
considerably below the normal level. In view of the
known reluctance of New York and London banks and accep-
tance houses to accept Japanese paper on the scale
requested, and of the insistence of many American and
British exporters for payment on a cash basis on Japan-
ese orders, there can be little doubt that "foreign
ourrency advances" today stand much below the level of
$80 million as reported at the end of last April, and
that a larger proportion of total foreign balances con-
sists of deposits built up by gold exports and some
liquidation of foreign securities. In any case,
"advances" constitute merely temporary credits whose
continued availability depends on recurring liquidation.
Under existing conditions such liquidation is likely to
be reflected in a reduction in cash deposits abroad.
(5) Although the extent of existing Japanese bank
balances abroad, apart from those in New York, can only
be guessed at, it is probable that present Japanese
holdings in this form, exclusive of balances held in
China and Manchukuo, are about $1o0 million less than
those officially reported for last April, or in the
neighborhood of 60 to 65 million dollars, as estimated
in our memorandum (pp. 6, 7).
EA:HSP:EB

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DI
JR
FROMErn
This teloegram must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
forE being communicated
Dated January 28, 1938
to anyonE. (B)
Rec'd 11:09 a.m.
le
Treas.
894.51/548
Secretary of StatE,
INTERNADAS
Washington.
a
$HHluco
JAN 291938
DEPARTMEWOOF STATE
894.51
7, January 28, 3 p.m.
Learned this morning in strict confidencE from VicE
President of Board of ManagErs of Swiss National Bank that
Japan has bEen putting out fEElers regarding possibility
of obtaining a largE loan in Switzerland. HE gavE mE to
understand thst the Smiss National Bank is definitely
unfavorable.
HE also told mE that thE Swiss Federal Council has
about dEcidEd to call for rEdemption 191l and 1920 thrEE
854.51
and onE half per cent Federal Railways Loans totalling four
F/MR
hundred million francs and offer for public subscription
a thrEE pEr cEnt loan in thE samE amount.
HARRISON
WWC
FILED

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
17
TELEGRAM from HARRISON, BERN, SWITZERLAND, dated January 28, 1938:
Regarding Japanese Loan Feelers
DISTRIBUTION:
Office Symbol
Office Title
Chief, or Head of Office
S
Secretary
Cordell Hull
U
Under Secretary
Sumner Welles
C
Counselor
R. Walton Moore
A-M
Assistant secretary
George S. Messersmith
A-S
Assistant Secretary
Francis B. Sayre
A-W
Assistant Secretary
Hugh R. Wilson
SA
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
Leo Pasvolsky
L
Legal dviser
Green H. Hackworth
PA/H
Adviser on Folitical Relations
Stanley K. Hornbeck
PA/D
Adviser on Political Relations
James C. Dunn
FEIS
viser on International Economic Affairs
Herbert Feis
EU
Division of European Affairs
Jay Pierrepont Moffat
NE
Division of Near Eastern Affairs
Mallace Murray
FE
Division of Far astern Affairs
Maxwell M. Hamilton
RA
Division of American Republics
Laurence Duggan

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.94)
Jan
Harrison, U.s. Minister at Genave
cabled that ng liarned
this morning in strict confidance from Vicd President or Board of
Managere of Swiss National Bank that Japan has been putting ous feelers re
garding possibility of obtaining a large loan in Switzerland. H. gave
me to understand that the Swiss National Bank is definitely unfavorable."

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.93)
January 28, 1938.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses six copies of each of the following telegrams:
894.51/548
now
F/FG
EA:LWW
HF

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
February 4, 1938.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses six copies of paraphrase of telegrem No. 3
of February 4, 1938, to the American Legation Bern.
1.11
11
894.51/548
EA: LWW
HT
F/FG

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
NG OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSNTTED
DATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Charge to
Treasury.
Washington,
1938 FEB 4A1101
4.
February
1938.
11am
AMLEGATJON
BERN (SWITZERLAND)
Your 7, January 28.
The Secretary of the Treasury transmits/his thanks
for your cable and states thatthe information contained
894.51/548
is extremely/ interesting to it and that it would be/helpful
if you would continue reporting on these matters whenever
any development/of Treasury interest/arose. Under an
arrangement with the/Department the Treasury pays/the
cable expenses for/reporting of this type on Treasury
matters.
(H.F.)
OA
n
Eu
EA:HF:LWW
TID
M.,
19.
U. S. VET I 

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
2
Tearhers College
Columbia Aniuerstty
STATE
TMENFSTA Brk
JAN 25 1938
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
 à 47 1ck'd
PAUL MONROE. PH. D.. LL.D.
1938 N 21
3mm
MR. WELLEY
MILTON C. DEL MANZO. PH. D
DIRECTOR
H. D.
UOF
COMMNCNS
ANDRES
PH. D.
Dr. Stanloy J. Hornbeck
Divigion of Far Eantarn Affa.ra
State Departnent
Washinzton, D. c.
My dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I desire to register in the proper
places my protest against a loan by any financial inter-
ests in the United States, whether corporate or private,
any loan to the Japanese government or any Japanese parties.
894.51/549
If there is no other way in which this can be done I urge
the application of the neutrality bill, otherwise object-
ionable. But the greatest aid which we could now render
Japan would be to advance her financial credit. This at
the same time would be the greatest injury to China. Such
injury I am confident would be quite contrary to the wishes
of the people of the United States.
I am assuming to speak not only for
myself porsonally but for the China Institute in America,
of which I am president of the beard of trustees, and for
the International Institute •f Teachors College, Columbia
University of which I am the director.
Will you please see that this protest
ANSI
is transfered to the proper authorities.
LED
Very truly yours,
Pare Homse
January 18, 1938
F/FG
11

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
上
January 24, 1938.
Dear Professor Monroe:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter
of January 18 protesting against a loan by
any financial interests in the United States
to the Japanese Government or any Japanese
parties and asking that a protest be com-
municated to the proper authorities.
894.51/549
I am bringing your letter to the atten-
tion of officers of the Department, including
the Seoretary of State.
Yours sincerely,
Paul Monroe, Ph.D., LL.D.,
Direotor, International Institute,
Teaohers College,
Columbia University,
New York, New York.
PA/H:SKH12K
1m/d
F/FG

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
38
WASHINGTON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
RECE
FEB 7- 1333
FEB - 2 1938
January 31,
38
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
My dear Dr. Feis:
I would appreciate it if you
woula convey my compliments to Minister
Harrison, at Bern, and my thanks to him
89
4.
The informetion contained in his
message is extremely interesting to the
5
Treasury and it would be helpful to us if
ne would transmit similar telegrams in the
future.
5
5
Sincerely,
O
Hon. Herbert Feis,
Adviser on International
Economic Affeirs,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
FEB 7 - 1938
FILED
/M
1

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
Columbia Aniversity
ecruary 11
MENTTE
in the City of Hem Pork
LEGISLATIVE DRAFTING RESEARCH FUND
FEB 9 AM 11 07
SIO KENT HALL
February 8, 1933.
ch ackid
DIVISION OF
COMMUNIIONS
AND REOURDS
COTION AFFAIRS
tece
The Honorable
A
The Secretary of State
neusDT
894.51
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
894.51/551
I am writing to you to express my opinion that it would be
most unfortunate if a loan were made by any financial interest in
the United States to the Japanese Government or any Japanese ar-
ties. It would not only be a reat material hel to Japan to
advance her financial credit but it would be a very important moral
backing and would be so interpreted in Japan. I feel confident
that the people of the United States have no desire to make it
appear to the world at large or to the Japanese people that they
are anything other than friendly to China at this time.
Jreth P Chanbulan
Very sincerely yours,
Joseph P. Chamberlain
FEB 12 1938
C:S
1
A

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
1 338
reply refer to
F 894.51/551
My dear Dr. Chamberlain:
The receipt is ackknowledced of your letter of
February , 1938, i w 1c) yo express the opinion
"that it would be most unfortunate if a loan were made
894.
by any financial interest in the United States to the
Japanese Govornment or any Japanese narties".
5
1
The views expressed in your letter have received
5
careful consideration and the spirit which promnted you
5
to bring them to the Department's attention is greatly
appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Maxweli M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Joseph P. Chamberlain, Ph.D., LL.D.,
510 Kent Hall,
Colmmbia University,
New York, New York.
9.C.
penr
FE:EGC: HES
FE
EA
F/M
2-10
A true rohv
HK
OR
FEB 11 1958.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
IBC
820 FIFTH AVENUE
February 9, 1938.
D3r3 10
946
894.51
Dear Secretary Hull:
REODS
Department of State and the
Administration will do everything
894.51/552
they possibly can to prevent loans to
Japan by any American financial
interests, whether corporate or
private, now and also after the war.
e are told that the Japanese
civilians are not in sympathy with
their government. I have reason to
believe that this is not true. A
FEB8F
was in Japan four years ago when
F/M

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
seemed to be on the verge of
revolution--civilian population
against the military. A loan of
$40,000,000 was obtained from France,
and the situation was imnediately
reversed, as what the civilian
population was really opposed to was
greater taxation. It was not
antagonistic to the imperialistic
policy of the Japanese military caste
towards China.
With highest respect for the
noble work you are doing, my dear
Mr. Secretary, I am
Very sincerely yours,
Jagin Boandean Gane,
(Mrs. W. Murray Crane)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
Ferruary 25 1938.
Im reply refer to
E 894.51/552
My deer rs. Crene:
The receipt is rcknowledged of your letter of
February 9, 1938, in regerd to the evtension of
89
loans to Japan by American financiel 1nterests.
4.
The Department hes given careful coneideretion
5
to the vlews expressed in your letter and appre-
clates your thoughtfulness 1n bringing them to its
5
5
attention.
2
Sincerely yours,
For the Beoretary of State:
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mrs. W. Murray Crane,
820 Fifth Avenue,
0507
New York, New York.
24 1938.
FER
nea
F/FG
EA
PEFAUC: VOI
FY
2/24/38
IHF

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ufficient address
ch
FROM
Division of
GPO
30n b 164 NL
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
KG Detroit Mich Feb 11
2191000
Cordell Hull
WDC
894.51
The committee to aid chinese people of Detroit begs to protest
on behalf of its 200,000 members against the contemplated
894.51/55
loan of fifty million dollars which Japanese industrialists
are trying to secure in this country the invasion of China
carried out with indiscriminate bombing of civilians wholesale
destruction of institutions of learning and the outrages
5
committed on women and children beside the sinking of the
3
Panay and the slapping of secretary Allison of our embassy
at Nanking is a crime against peace and humanity that the
civilized world cannot tolerate we demand that steps be taken
at once to stop the loan because every dollar they borrow from
us will release in Japan a dollar with which to buy munitions
to kill the Chinese and further the international crime we
FEB 17 1938
FILED
also demand that our government take independent but parallel
action to send sorely needed munitions and financial aid to
the Chinese defenders as great britian france and other powers
have proposed to do
Committee to aid Chinese people
F/M
902p Feb 11

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
ER-PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION
SAN FRANCISCO CHAPTER
ROOM 320. 83 McALLISTER STREET
Phone HEmlock 8178
SAN FRANCISCO
38 FLB1 108
232
JOHN D. BARRY
Chairman
February 7,1938.
EDWARD W. GALLAGHER
Vice-Chairman
cens'd tob. 16, 938
FDITH ROSFNSHINF
Secretary
The Hon. Cordell Hull,
EMIAS
Secretary of State,
Washing ton, D .
Dear sir:
The Inter-Professional Association of
San Francisco, at a meeting held tonight, unani-
894.51/554
mously decided to request you to do all in your
power to discourage all lending of money to
agents of Japan for the development of Manchukuo.
In this matter we believe that the great mejority
of the people of the United States would regard
any such action as one which would necessarily
put us in greater danger of war, and furthermore,
it would be an action unfriendly to the Chinese
government.
Yours sincerely,
THE INTER-PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION
By
Chaerwan
F/M
fer8.G.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
21198
reply refer to
894.51/554.
My dear Mr. Barry:
The reoeipt is acknowledged of your letter of
February 7, 1938, in whioh you convey the request of
the Inter-Professional  ssoci tion of an Franoisoo
that the lending of money to agents of Japan for the
development of "Manohukuo" be disoouragad.
8
6
The Dopartment has given oareful consideration
4.
to the views expressed in your letter and appreciates
5
your kindness in bringing them to its attention.
17
5
Sincerely yours,
5
For the Seoretary of State:
4
1.21112
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Mr. John D. Barry,
Chairman, Inter-Professional Association,
Room 320, 85 MoAllister Street,
ORV
San Franoiseo, California.
FER 18 1938
ee
FE:JMJ:VCI:HES
FE
FG
2-17

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVED
FEB 23 1938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
Division of
FAR EASTERAFFAIRS
MEMORANDUM
FEX
February 8, 1938.
OF
AND
Department of Stale
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
MUNITIONS
INTERNATIONAECAFAIRS
CONTROL
FEB1 6 1938
FEB-81938
A:
F
FE:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
P
Mr. Gordon Rentschler, president of the National City
894.51
Bank of New York, called me by telephone from New York this
morning. He referred to the conversations which he had had
518,521
894.5
in October with officers of the Department, in regard to
the credit operations of his bank in connection with exoorts
to China and Japan. He said that he had gathered from what
11
was said to him in those conversations that the Department
5
5
did not wish to express any objection to the transactions
5
which he had described, but that as the situation had re-
cently changed somewnat, he wished to know whether the atti-
tude of the Department had changed and whether I wished to
tell him anything for his guidance in connection with the
rri
FILED
2
type of credit operations which he had described when he
cπ
1938
was in Washington.
Mr. Rentschler said that his bank had interests in both
China and Japan and that in its transactions relating to ex-
F/A
ports to those countries, it was trying "not to walk on eggs
but to walk between the eggs." He said that during the summer
and autumn most of the transactions, relating to exports to
Japan, for which his bank had been asked to extend commercial
credits
11

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
credits were sales of cotton, machine tools and oil, but
that recently the bank had been approached in connection
with the sale of airplanes and airplane engines, and that
most of the total amount of credit involved had been in-
creasing and seemed likely to increase further.
I asked Mr. Rentschler whether I was correct in my
understanding that he was speaking of ordinary short timet
commercial credits.
He replied in the affirmative.
I told Mr. Rentschler that I had no observations to
make beyond pointing out that the provisions of Section 3
of the Neutrality Act relating to loans and credits would
become automatically operative if the Act should be proclaimed
to be in effect in respect to China and Japan. I added that
I would consult other officers of the Department, in regard
to this matter, and would telephone him later in the day.
After consulting Mr. Hamilton of FE and the Secretary,
I telephoned Mr. Rentschler and told him that I had nothing
to add to what I had already said.
Mr. Rentschler said that his bank intended to continue
to extend credits in connection with exportation to China
and Japan, but that as far as exports to Japan were con-
cerned, it would refuse credits to any but its regular
customers.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
At the end of my first conversation with Mr. Rentschler,
I asked him whether he had heard the current rumors,in regard
to a loan of one hundred million dollars which the Chinese
Government was supposed to have obtained or to be attempting
to obtain in this country.
Mr. Rentschler said that he had heard the rumors, but
that there was absolutely no basis in fact for them. He
thought that they probably resulted from some attempt on
the part of Dr. Kung to obtain publicity which would give
the impression that his Government had extensive credit
abroad. He said that no one in this country who was in a
position to loan a large sum of money to the Chinese Govern-
ment would be willing to consider such a proposition. He
explained that the gold credits which China was reported to
have obtained in France, Germany and Czechoslovakia were not
credits in the ordinary sense of the word, but were in fact
so blocked and hedged about by restrictions that the money
could not be used, and that the credit had no value except
for publicity purposes. He added that the purchases which
China was making in Europe were made on a cash basis.
I said that we had considered the rumors in regard to
the Chinese loan in this country as fantastic, but that I
was interested to have his confirmation of our opinion.
X
Joseph C. Green.
cwy
CA:JCG:EBJ

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
894.5
mawent lontrol
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
711.00111
Divislon
ADVISER ON
CA
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
FEB-81938
February 8, 1938.
Department of State
I think it would have been useful to query Mr.
Rentochler more exhaustively as to the nature of the
MUNITIONS
"ordinary short term commercial credits" which his Bank
FEB1 6 1938
is extending for such purchases as the sale of airplanes
and airplane engines. In fact, I think we should know
OF
894.
everything possible as to the nature of any loan contract
STATE
arrangements being made for such purchases.
2
5
Though this is not a matter of interpretation of the
CEIVE
EEN
law, tsonder whether it would not have been appropriate
3
5
5
t poni out to Mr. Rentschler that the extension of bank-
9
g credit for the purchase and sale of airplanes and
airplane engines are not operations that American opinion
would greatly like to see encouraged. Such a suggestion
seems to me almost necessary in view of the general atti-
tude assumed by the Department and the President towards
the Far East in replying to an inquiry made directly of
us. I would suggest that the Secretary be consulted as
to whether or not some further intimation to this effect
1
A
were not to be made to Mr. Rentschler in view of the fact
MAY 181938
that he has now put us on notice "that the total amount of
credit involved has been increasing and seemed likely to
increase further".
EA:HF:LWW HF

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB161938
XX
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
m.Geebr
February 16, 1938.
The two questions I suggest Mr. Rentschler of the
National City Bank be asked are
(1)
) Whether any of the credit transactions the Bank
711.00111
is undertaking for the facilitation of export to Japan
are such that the Bank will keep them in force in the
event Section 3 of the Neutrality Act was applied, and sub-
sequent to its application.
(2) As to the exact character of any financing the
894.51/5
Bank may be undertaking for the facilitation of the sale
of arms, munitions and implements of war to Japan, and
their actual prospective amount.
5
In summary, my reasons for urging that these ques-
557
tions be asked of Mr. Rentschler are
(1) If the matter is left as it now stands, the
Bank may believe, and at some time allege, that in under-
taking this financing of this type of trade with Japan,
it did it with the knowledge of the State Department and
FILR7 A
4
that the knowledge implied tacit assent.
c0
16
(2) The mere fact that a Bank of the outstanding
position of the National City Bank is engaging in the
financing of the movement of arms, munitions and imple-
ments of war to Japan is likely to be construed in
Japan

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Japan as indicating that influential elements in American
life are prepared to support them.
(3) Mr. Rentschler has already advised us of his
anticipation that such business will grow.
(4) To facilitate the movement of arms, munitions
and implements of war to Japan at this time is not to the
national interest. Its ultimate effect would be to in-
volve this Government in the expense of increasing its
own armaments.
I do not think it necessary that this action await
similar action vis-a-vis all the other banks of this coun-
try which we have no reason to believe are engaging in
similar financing at the present time - though I should
not object to such action were it quietly done in a way
that would raise no public issue between ourselves and
Japan, of which there would be very considerable risk.
I also would favor some general public statement of
the type drawn up by Mr. Hamilton on the whole question.
EA:HF:LWW

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF ARMS AND MUNITIONS CONTROL
MR. HORBECK
ADVISER
MEMORANDUM
FEB 171938
FEB2 11938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SIATE
February 17, 1938.
OEECE OF THE ADVISER ON
Division of
EAT
FEB181938
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ERNTINAL  AFFAIRS
FE:
EB171938
FEB171938
Theecretary:
Department of State
STATE
N
0
S
Inumy telephone conversation on February 8, 1938, with
ED
OF
894.51/
REEIV
QAEEN
Mr. Goraon B. Rentschler, President of the National City Bank
3
ofNew York, in regard to the extension of short-term com-
LLI
A
mercial oredits to facilitate the sale of arms and other war
93
materials by American companies to China and Japan, I told
5
5
him, in accordance with the instructions which I had received,
8
that I had no observations to make concerning what he had
told me in regard to the proposed operations of his bank
other than to point out that the provisions of Section 3
of the Neutrality Act relating to loans and credits woua
become automatically operative if the act should be proclai ia
ED
6
to be in effect in respect to China and Japan.
3
Mr. Feis now suggests that something additional should
be said to Mr. Rentschler. In support of his opinion, he
urges that:
F
(1) If the matter is left as it now stands, the
A/
bank may believe, and at some time allege, that in
undertaking

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
undertaking this financing of this type of trade with
Japan, it did it with the knowledge of the State De-
partment and that the knowledge implied tacit assent.
(2) The mere fact that a bank of the outstanding
position of the National City Bank is engaging in the
financing of the movement of arms, munitions, and
implements of war to Japan is likely to be construed
in Japan as indicating that influential elements in
American life are prepared to support them.
(3) Mr. Rentschler has already advised us of his
anticipation that such business will grow.
(4) To facilitate the movement of arms, munitions,
and implements of war to Japan at this time is not to
the national interest. Its ultimate effect would be
to involve this Government in the expense of increasing
its own armaments.
He suggests that Mr. Rentschler should be asked two specific
questions as follows:
(1) What is the exact character of any credit
transactions which the bank is undertaking to facilitate
the sale of arms, ammunition, or implements of war to
Japan, and what is the prospective amount of the credits
to be extended for this purpose?
(2) Are

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
(2) Are any of the credit transactions which the
National City Bank 1s undertaking for the facilitation
of export to Japan of such a nature that, in the opinion
of the bank, they could legally remain in force under
the provisions of Section 3 of the Neutrality Act, should
the Neutrality Act be proclaimed to be in effect in
respect to Japan?
and that these questions should be asked in such a way as to
convey the impression that the extension of credit by banks
to facilitate the exportation of arms to Japan does not meet
with the approval of the Department.
Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. Hamilton, with whom this matter has
been discussed, are of the opinion that it is advisable that
some such action as that suggested by Mr. Feis should be taken.
I should appreciate receiving your further instructions
in regard to this matter.
In this connection, you may wish to consider (1) whether
it would be advisable to reopen this question in conversation
with Mr. Rentschler with a view to discouraging such transac-
tions as those referred to above, without taking some steps
at the same time to convey some intimation of the Department's
attitude to other important banks; (2) whether some general
public statement might be made in regard to the Department's
attitude toward such transactions; and (3) whether, if any
further

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.91)
-4
further action is to be taken at this time in regard to this
matter, it may not be advisable to consider the possibility
of attacking the problems raised by increasing sales of arms
to Japan by some direct means rather than by dealing merely
with the credit aspect of the question, and to that end to
direct that a thorough study of the whole problem be made
with a view to evaluating the various means which might
conceivably be adopted to curtail or prevent further exports
of arms to Japan.
Joseph C. Green
FE
ZH
EP
CA:JCG:HWD
m.m.
cuy
14

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGATION OF THE
ÚNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RECEIVED
ABernFebruary 9,1938
No. 221
1938 FEB 24 AM 11 C4
TA/H
Subject:
Japanese loan inquiries in Switzerland--
1938
Reported credit to China by Swiss Bank
Corporation.
DIVISION OF
EURUPEAN AFFAIRS
MAR 91938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF H E 
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
INTERNATIONAL ECS
LEB19
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
epartment of State
894.51/55
new
Coky to Preas
2-26-38
HH/lww
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
5
6
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
8-1938
Washington.
Sir:
FILED
548
I have the honor to refer to the Legation's tele-
894.51
gram No. 7 of January 28, 3 p.m., 1938, which reported
that feelers had been put out here by Japan regarding
the possibility of raising a loan in Switzerland.
F/A
In a conversation which I had yesterday with
Mr. Paul Rossy, Vice President of the Conseil de Direc-
tion of the Swiss National Bank, the latter confirmed
that the reaction of the Swiss National Bank was defi-
nitely negative. He said that Swiss public opinion was
strongly pro-Chinese and that the Swiss banks would not
for a moment stand behind a loan for Japan. The approaches
in

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
1n this matter had been made by the Japanese Legation
in Bern shortly before Christmas. The attitude of offi-
cials of the National Bank was so unresponsive that the
Japanese considered it inexpedient to mention a specific
sum.
In this connection, I may point out that Article 8
of the Federal Bank Law of November 8, 1934, provides
that the Swiss National Bank be consulted in cases of
loan or credit operations in Switzerland, for foreign
account, in amounts exceeding ten million Swiss francs.
The National Bank may veto the operations if "exchange
conditions, interest rates or protection of the coun-
try's economic interests justify such action".*
From another confidential source, I have learned
the following incomplete details of results of the visit
to Switzerland, several months ago, of Dr. Kung, Chinese
Finance Minister. One of the main purposes of the visit,
it seems, was the conclusion of a loan of ninety million
Swiss francs from Dutch and Swiss banks. Beginning in
September, 1937, negotiations with this end in view had
been carried on, on Dr. Kung's behalf, by the private
bank of Luescher and Company, Basel. The desired credit
was to be fully secured by actual deposit of silver, and
the money was to be spent, it was said, on construction
of railways and electrical installations. Notwithstand-
ing these negotiations, individual members of the Swiss
Bank Consortium fought shy of any commitment, and finally
the Swiss Bank Ccrporation (Schweizerische Bankverein),
Basel, was alone found willing to make an advance. The
credit
Copy of Bank Law transmitted to Department with des-
patch No. 3630 of November 19, 1934, published in Feuille
Fédérale, No. 46, November 14, 1934.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
credit which it agreed, in December, to grant is said
to have not exceeded ten million Swiss francs (the Na-
tional Bank's permission being required for a credit of
more than that amount). The total loan was eventually
limited to thirty million Swiss francs, including the
larger part placed in Holland and a small part in Sweden.
In some quarters here the loan has been regarded
as an actual, but concealed, sale of silver, avoiding
in that way disturbance of the market. I have so far
been unable to obtain information as to the actual terms
of the loan or the rate of interest. My informant could
only add that the security was esteemed amply sufficient
to cover any eventuality.
Respectfully yours,
Charge d'Affaires a.1.
File No. 851
DFB/mk
In quintuplicate to the Department

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
EA 894.51/559
The Secretary of State presents his comoliments
to the Honoreble the Seoretary of the rensury, and
encloses for his information a cony of strictly con-
fidential despatch No. 22l dated February 9, 1938,
894.51/55
from the American Legation, Bern, reporting on Jap-
anese loan inouiries in Switzerland.
5
6
FER 2938.PM
FEB 28 1938
7
Enelesure:
A
Ne. sml from Bern,
February 9. 1938.
FE
deli

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
KEGAL ADVISER
RECEIVED
TELEPHONE VANDERBILT 3-1750
8
DEFARTHENBENNETT E.SIEGELSTEIN
COUNSELOR AT LAW
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1938 FEB 25 AM 10 41
535 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YO'RK
DIVISO
Feb. 24th, 1938.
arch 14 1938.
COMMUVOTNS
aAn
AND REGORDS
Cordell Hull, Esq.,
Secretary of State, Division
Washington, D. C FAH EASTENN AA
B
Re: Estate of Oliver D. Hovey
MAR 11 1938
Your Excellency:
Deceased?
Mr. Hovey was a citizen of the United States,
and died on January 29th, 1918, a resident of Hampden County,
Massachusetts. The Union Trust Company of Springfield, Mass.
was named as Executor and Trustee.
894.5
As a result of discovery proceedings and invest-
igations made, it was found that the decedent had purchased a
number of bonds of the Imperial Japanese Government, through a
banker in Springfield - the principal amounting to approximately
14,000. It was an issue known as 4% Stering loan of 1905, mat-
uring January lst, l93l. A list of the bonds, their denominations,
5
bond numbers, and dates of purchase, is in my hands.
9
0
When the Executor ascertained that the bonds had
been purchased, but were missing, and could not be found, notice
was given 1mmediately to the Yokohama Specie Bank, Ltd., 120
Broadway, New York City, fiscal agent for the Japanese Government
which had charge of the payment of the coupons thereon and of the
principal at maturity.
The bank had notice of the loss as far back as
1924, if not actually earlier. The executor decided not to stir
the matter up until the maturity of the bonds, to make certain
that no one appeared and made claim thereto meanwhile. When l931
had gone by, and the Executor had heard nothing further in the
matter, an effort was made to arrange the furnishing of an indem
FTLEDF/A
nity bond to the Yokohama Specie Bank, so that the bonds could
be replaced, or the principal thereof paid.These negotiations
dragged along from time to time, and the legal representative of
the estate, finally being exhausted in his efforta to bring abott
a solution of the matter, filed an accounting and resigned.
8
Thereupon, William A. Sindelar of Cleveland, Ohio,
a close friend of George F. Hovey, the sole legatee named in the
Will, was appointed administrator cum testamentum annexo, in Aug-
ust i936. Mr. Sindelar's efforts to bring about a satisfactory
disposition of this matter, were likewise frustrated, and as a
result, it was decided that as the matter was pending in New York
City, that the estate ought to have a legal representative in the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
ordell Hull, Esq.
Page #2
Feb. 24/38
State of New York to act for it directly in such negotetions, and
to bring such proceedings as might be beneficiel to the estate in
the Courts of New York. As a result, H. Bernard Cohen, who resides
1n this City, and is also a citizen of the United States, was duly
appointed ancillary administrator,c.t.a. by the Surrogates Court of
the County of New York, in this city, and I am his attorney of
record, and counsel for the estate.' That appointment took place
on January 12th, 1938.
Efforts were renewed through Mr. Cohen and myself
to bring about a disposition of this matter. Both of us, including
representatives of responsible insurance companies, acting in our
behalf, called upon the representatives of the Yokohama Specie
Bank, with a view of arranging the placing of a bond to protect the
Japanese Government and/or said bank. This 1s the usual procedure
in cases of this kind.
There is furnished by the claimant, or owner of the
missing bonds, an undertaking, which is known either as an "indem-
nity" bond, or a "lost instrument" bond, in an amount agreed upon,
which is usually twice the amount of the face velue of the bonds.
A similar situation took place in l935, in this very
same estate, when a series of Anglo French bonds were found to be
missing in the same manner, and J. P. Morgan & Co., the fiscal agents
of the French and British Governments, very readily and courteously
arranged the substitution of a surety bond to protect the said Govern-
ment, in lieu of and in replacement of the missing bonds, and the
principal and interest due on seid missing bonds was paid over to
the administratrix of this estate, upon the lodging of bonds executed
by the Maryland Casualty Co. with J. P. Morgan & Co.
Certainly, in my opinion, what was done in the case
of the Anglo French bonds, could just as well be accomplished insofer
as the Japanese bonds are concerned. Unfortunately, in our efforts,
we met with an obstacle which is not so easily surmountable.
The Yokohama Specie Bank takes the position that
it wants a bond of indemnity executed only by the American Surety
Company, and backs its demand by a statement that it has done bus-
iness in 17 years with that company only. The Americen Surety Com-
pany takes the position that it will not write the bond, and I be-
lieve that the position of said surety company is most arbitrary and
discriminatory. In order to insure the American Surety Company
ageinst possible loss, I went so far as to obtsin the indemnity of
another surety company; in other words, re-insuance, so that the
American Surety Co: could fall back on a company equally as good in
the event it ever had to make good, but this was refused by said
company, without rime or reason.
Then I decided to satisfy myself whether or not the
American Surety Co. was really arbitrary in its attitude, and I de-

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Cordell Hull, Esq.
Page #3
Feb. 24/38
cided to make another offer, which I felt could not be refused. I
asked the spokesman of the Ámerican Surety Co. whether his company
would accept the cash equivalent of any bond thet it would execute
as a collateral deposit to be left with it, as indemnity. The answer
was again in the negative.
I write to you fully about this matter, because I feel
that the ancillary administrator represented by me is entitled to re-
ceive whatever aid or cooperation could he given by your department
in the matter. I have hesitated to go into court, because I feel
that the burden and expense of a long drawn out litigation should not
be saddled on this estate. In the main, it would have to be borne
ultimately by Mr. Hovey, the sole legatee, who likewise is an American
citizen, and his ultimate share in the estate, would be considerably
reduced by such expense.
I believe that the Yokohama Specie Bank ought to be
satisfied to accept the bond of any surety company in the State of
New York, duly authorized to do business, and able to produce a cer-
tificate of solvency, issued by the Superintendent of Insuance of the
State of New York. I do not believe that the Yokohama Specie Bank
has a right to be arbitrary or capricious in its demands. There are
other surety companies equally as responsible as the American Surety
Co., but I am unable to make the representative of the benk see the
1ight.
I am of the opinion that the Department will make an
effort to assist citizens of the United States, in collecting what is
lawfully due them, without recourse to the courts, where a foreign
Government is involved. Whether the channels wili lead to the Imper-
ial Japanese Consulate in New York City, or the Legation of the Jap-
anese Ambassador in Washington, is something that I cannot answer,
but if I can enlist your aid and cooperation towarding approaching
these channels, and obtaining the redress that this estate is entitled
to, I will appreciate it very mueh indeed.
I have written to you fully, so that you will have a
fair picture of the situation, and I will appreciate it very much if
you will advise me what can he done through your good offices.
With much respect4 pe to remain,
HBC/L

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
March 14 1938.
Im reply refer to
804.81/580
Mr. Bennott E. Siegelstein,
535 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York.
sir:
Referenoe 1s made to your letter of February 24,
894
1938 requesting the Department's assistance in your ef-
forts to obtain bonds of the Imperial Japanese Government
5
4 pereent Sterling loan of 1905, to replaoe bonds of that
1ssue said to be missing from the assets of the estate of
5
9
Oliver D. Movey.
O
It appears from your letter that applioation for the
replaoement bonds was made to the Yokohama Specie Bank,
Limited, in New York City; that the bank demanded, as a
sonditiem fer delivery of the replaoement bonds, that it
be furmished an indemnity bond issued by the American
Surety Gompeay; that the Ameriean Surety Gompany has
deslimed to furmish the bone fer reasome met diselosed
in your letter and that you mave been umable te induse
F/M
the Amerisam Sarety Sempany to recensider ite refusal
9o

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
to furnish the bond or to 1nduce the Yokohama Speoie Bank
to acoept other seourity.
The situation dimolosed by your letter does not ap-
pear to afford any proper basis for action by this Depart-
ment. While you state that "a foreign government is in-
volved" in the me ter to whioh you refer, it seems clear
from your letter that the controverey is one exclusively
between your client, the Yokohama Sneoie Bank, and the
American Surety Company.
The Depertment has noted your statement that you
have hesitated to institute legal proceedings because of
the expense involved and you therefore doubtless appreciate
that 1f the parties oonoerned are unable to reaoh an
amicable adjustment, a final authoritative determination
of the controverey would apparently require its submission
to the appropriate judicial tribunal.
Very truly yours,
For the Beoretary of State:
OR
MAR 11,
Green H. Haokworth
Legal Adviser
the sed 
nal.
L11883/9,10
FE

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
894.51
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12488
#2768
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Feb 4, 1938
TO
NAME
1—1127
894.51/
Japan's war resources.
REGARDING:
Pamphlets of The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan: en-
closes two-, "The Sino-Japanese Conflict and Financial Re-
sources"; "Japan's Finance and Industry".
561
FRG.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
This tElegram must bE
Tokyo
closely paraphrased bE-
forE heing communicated
FROM
Dated March 2, 1938
to anyonE. (A)
Ryc'd 12:20 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Para
OFFICE OF THE AFVISER ON
Washington.
6
38
INTRI  FAIRS
N+
MAR - 2 1938
142, March 2, 11 a.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.51
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
1529
Our 627 of DEcEmbEr 14,/1 p.m., -- JapanEsE gold
shipments.
894.51/562
VicE Governor of thE Bank of Japan has informed
thE Commercial AttachE that gold to thE valuE of 15 million
yEn was shippEd to thE United States on February 26th.
This is thE first shipment sincE thosE rEported in our
telegram under refErencE.
L
B
GREW
RR
FILED
F/FG

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAPHRASE OP TELEONAM RECEIVED
FROM: American mbassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
Maroh 2, 1938, 11 a.m.
NO.:
142
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
Reference is mede to telegram on Japanese gold
shipments from the Embasey on December 14, 1 p.m., No. B27.
The Commercial Attaché has been told by the vice
Covernor of the Bank of Japan that on the twenty-eixth
of February gold wes shipped to the United tates to the
value of 15 million yen, this shipment 1s the first that
hes been made sinee the shinments reported in the telegram
mentioned above.
GREW.
EA: LWW

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
Maroh 2, 1938.
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses six copies of paraohrase of telegram No. l42
of Maroh 2, 1938, from the American Embasey, Tokyo,
894.51/562
reporting on a shipment of Japanese gold.
844.51/6-62
Enclosure:
No. 142 of Maroh 2, 1938,
from Tokyo.
Jng
'F/FG
EA:LWW
HF

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.01 Manchuria/1492
Despatch #-
SEE
FOR
Mukden
Davies
Dec 26, 1937
FROM
DATED
894.51/
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Tables showing Japan's balance of payments with "Manchukuo"
for years 1935 and 1936; showing that, after five years
of developing and exploiting Manchuria, "Manchukuo" was
5
for Japan still a losing proposition. Transmits-.
9
3
aa
8
6
563

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
ZA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RECEIVED
Hankow January 20,1938.
No. 4.
1938 MAR 7 PM 2 18
Subject:
Plea to discourage credit sought by
Japanese in the United
States for
Industrial development
in Manchuria.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECUNUMIC AFFAIRS
MAR 2 5 1938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.51
894.51/564
PAR FAST
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
543
I have the honor to refer to my telegrem No. 45,
MAR 2 6 1938
FTLED
1/
January 20, 3 p.m., and to enclose herewith copy of a
letter which was presented to me to-day by a delegation
of Chinese consisting of Mr. K. T. Chung, Chairman of
The People's Foreign Relations Association of China,
Mr. Pan Li Shan, Secretery of the Chinese Students:
Federation, and Miss Chi Yi Chen, Secretary of the
Federation of Chinese Women's Organizations, with ref-
erence to the report of an attempt by Japanese indus-
trial interests to establish a credit of $50,000,c00 in
the
FE
G

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the United States for the purchase of a plant for the
Manchuria Heavy Industry Development Company.
I explained to this deputation that, while I had
no information regarding the matter mentioned in their
letter, nor was I in any position to prevent the estab-
lishment of credits such as that mentioned, I would be
glad to transmit their letter as representing the
views of private citizens of China.
Mr. Chung, acting as spokesman, stated that this
news had been received with considerable perturbation
by Chinese here, and that it was their hope that the
sympathy and moral support for China in its time of
trouble which they knew existed among the people of the
United States would prevent the establishment of such
a credit at this time.
Respectfully yours,
Releon Tmg
NELSON TRUSLER JOHNSON.
Enclosure:
Copy of letter from The People's Foreign
Relations Association, January 19.
In triplicate to the Department.
Copy to Peiping.
851.
NTJ.EA

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
The People's Foreign Relations Association
Hankow, Chine
January 19, 1938.
H.E. Mr. Nelson T. Johnson,
U.S. Ambassador in China,
U.S. Embassy.
Your Excellency:
We beg to invite your attention to the matter of
the lat st Japanese attemot to obtain credit in the
United States.
According to the story carried in the New York
TIMES, Mr. T. J. Watson, President of voth the Interna-
tional Business Machines Corporation in New York and
the American Section of the Internetionel Chamber of
Commerce, hes been approached by the Japanese industrial
interests with a view to establishing a credit of
$50,000,000 in the United states fer the purchase of a
plant for the Manchurian Hetvy Industrial Development
Company, which wes organized on December 1, 1937, to
take over the heavy industries of Manchuria.
The functions of heavy industry in war time being
familier to all, the people of China heve been greatly
perturbed by the report. We are, however, confident
that the Americar Government as well as the American
people would not entertain the Japanese approach with
favor. In fact, we heve noted with great satisfaction
in the later report appearing in the seme journal stating
that the official circles in Washington would regard
with disfavor any such proposal from the Japanese inter-
ests

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
ests end for such a ourpose.
The Chinese people heve been assured and reassured
by the attitude of the United Stetes as gainst interna-
tional aggression, non-observanee of treaties and solemn
pledges, and the outreges of the lavs or humanity. We
sincerely hope thet such ettitude of the united States
will in time become a rent contribution to the cause of
internatiunal peace in the Far ast md in the vorld at
large.
Your xcellency is eordielly roquctei to use your
good offices to let the americen rineneial unu industriul
leuders knev the reel intentions of Japan and to whet end
the Japanese he vy industries ere direeted.
Respectfully submitted by:
The People's Pcreign Relations Association
of China
(Signed) 鍾可託 K. T. chune, chairman
(seal)
The Han ov Charter of Commerce
(Signed) 黄文植
Chairman.
The Hankov Bankers' Association
(signed) 浦心雅
(Seal) hairman
The All-Chine seanen's Union
(Se:1)
(signed) 王寄一 J. I. lane
Seer tary
The Federation of the Chihese Women's
Organizat ions
(siened) 陳紀彝
(l)
Chi vi chen, Secretary
The Chinese students' Federution
(Signed) 彭樂善
(Seal)
Secratary
The China Branch of the orld Peace
Campaign
(Seal)
Secretary
The Chinese League of Nations Union
(signed) 周書楷
S. K. Chow, Secretary.
(A true copy EA)

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
sion of
file
MAR 3 -1938
5020
886t
V
1938
JAPAN ( EGONOMIC )
FER
ON OF
2
TIONS AND Sub joot:
OHOS
Government Budget.
1938-39 and Speoiel
"Chins Ineident" Budgets.
1. 1938-39 Budget:
94.51
a. The l938-39 Budget was introduoed at the 73rd Diet
when it was reconvened Jenuary 22d and was promptly referred
to the budget committee shich commeneed hearinge immedintely.
894
The 1938-39 reguler budget amounting to Yen 2,868,299,000,
should be ap roved without smendment by the Diet. This
budget, or course, does not inelude funde for the Chinm opera-
tioms whieh sre appropriated for separstely under the speoial
heading "Chine Incident Expenditures".
b. The Finanee Minister, Mr. Kays, replying to an inter-
5
pellator who questioned the Empire's ability to reise more
9
than Yen 5,000,000,000 in revenue annually, assured him that
5
"Japan's economie position would not be seriously effected
by large exyenditures. I am eonfident that the country could
successfully withstand expenditures even es greet as Yen 20,000.
000,000 or Yem 30,000,000,000.......
me seetion of the
press, in commenting on the Finence Minister's statoment,
ealled him "a great optimist" and wormed that Japan could no
longer expeet to borrow abroed in onse of necessity, es she
did during the uaso-Jepenese ar.
0. In comneetion with the inemee inister's ststement
the following may be interesting:
Total National debt- Deeember 31, 1937,
ineluding short term or so-sslled "rice
Yen 12,315,099,000
Resourees of De posits Brean ( ostal avings)
December 31, 1930
5,18,367,000
Bank Deposits - December 31, 1937
15,746,543,00
d. Revenue:
The annual ordinary revemue for the
fiseel year T936-39 1s expeoted to be sbout Yen 2,00.000,000.
The defieit in the regular budget will be made up thie year,
as before, by the sale of mationsl or treasury bonds. It
is not elear whether the recently announeed new tax ineresse
of Yen 200,000,000 will be applied to the regular budget r
not. The Yen 100,000,000 tax inerease br the year 1937-30
whioh was originally approved for but one yesr, will be con-
timued for another yeer and the revenue epplied to "Chins
Incident" expenditures.
2.
"China Incident" Appropriations:
a. Mo ofricial announcement has yet been made of the
From: /A Tokyo
Report No. 9220
Feb. 4, 1938
V
RESTRICTED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.87)
RESTRICTED
Aapproprintions which will be requested by the services
the eontimuation of the Chine operations. The War Minister
appeared before the budget committee, assured that body
hat large soele militery operations would be resumed when the
wilitary forces had been re-orgenized and re-supplied. The
press agreed that about Yen 5.000,000,000 would be requested,
divided roughly Yen 8.500,000,000 for the rmy and Yen 1,500.
000,O00 for the Navy. ther amounts for the Finanee, Foreign
and Home Mimistries would aleo be ineluded, chiefly for the
former for sinking fund end interests poysents.
b. Besides netionel or treasury bonds, the Yen 200,000,000
tax inerease and the continuing 1937-38 Yen 100,000,000  China
Ineident" tax (see ar. ld above) will probably be applied to
the mew "China Ineident" empenditures to be pproved by the
73rd Diet. In addition, the following smounts will be trans-
ferred from the so-called" speeial sccounts" (Covernment mono-
polies md the colonies) as revenue to be applied aginst the
"Chine Incident" expenditures:
Reilway enterprises
Communications enterprises...........
16,000.000
3
orean Covernment-General............
17.000.000
Formosen Government-Genersl..........
11,000.000
Saghalien Covernment.................
2,300,000
South Jeas Covernment.
700.000
Kwontungureeu
3.500.000
3. a. According to the rientel  conomist, an outhoritative
financial publication, and the press, the following nationel
or treasury bonds iesues heve been sold or nncunoed:
ace Value
inte ox
Date
Amgunt
Intereat
lasue rice
atarity
Auguet 25, 1937
200.00.000
00. 1954
Septemker 15, 1957
100.000.070
ec. 1948
2
C0tober 15, 1987
200.000.0.0
3
38
we. 1948
X
Noveber 16, 193?
800.000.0
2.3
Ar.
1985
December 10, 1037
200.000.000
号
2
数：
19
3.
cao ber 10,
1937
100.000.0
87.
1955
X
Decenber 2
1937
*00.000.0
2
1949
Jauery
6
1938
500.000.000
ax.
1949
X
Yebraary 15, 1950
300.000.000
3
June 1955
X menns "China Ineident" Iecues.
Total - Ten 1.900.000.00 of whteh hine Inoident" ta ues totelled
* 1,500,000,000, reported to date.
b. The emounte ep roprieted for "Chime Ineident" expendituree ere
not limited to eny fiseal yoar but mey be apent at eny time. the emounts
already authorized by the Dtet will be vwed by the War, Savy and other
departmente for "China Ineident" expendituree and no part will be withheld.
Publie respoupe has not been very entmusiestio towerd the sole of pational
or traasury bonds and the Bank or Japan wes reported to hove toven the
greater part of the issues.
Souree: ress and as indieated in report.
Distribution:
John «eekerling,
5/
Captain, lafeatry, Dol,
File
The Military Attache, Americn I yo. Jap. lary the.
Ist. Ind.
To:
The Chief, Milit ry Jtee Divion
1. Approved.
Harry I. T. Cre weil,
Major, Acting General Stf.
Froms i/s Tokyo
ReportMllior» ansh
ab. 4. 1939
RESTRIC

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
A
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
This telegram must bE
Tokyo
closely_paraphrased bE-
FROM
forE bEing communicated
Dated March 28, 1938
to anyonE. (A)
REe'd 7 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
6
38
OFFICE I THE ADVISER UN
3
MAR 2 5 1938
211, March 28, 1 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
-CONFIDENTIAL.
ThE CommErcial AttachE has bEen informEd confidentially
by an official of thE Bank of Japan of thE following gold
894.51/566
shipments from: March 27 yEn 20,000,O00 pEr SS KINKWA
MARU; Apri1 8 yEn 20,OOO,OOO pEr SS KOMAKI MARU: April 9
yEn 3O,O00,OOO pEr SS TITIBU MARU.
ThE informant undErstands that advicE of thEsE
shipmEnts has alrEady bEEn sEnt by thE DEpartmEnt of
FinancE to thE Financial CommissionEr at NEw York who
will communicatE it to thE United States Treasury.
APR4=1938
GREW
FILED
RR:HPD
F/FG

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.92)
PARAPHRASE OF T ELEORAL RECEIV ED
FROM:
American mbassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
Merch 28, 1938, 1 p.m.
NO.1
211
CONFTDENT IAL.
A Bank of Japan official has confidentially informed
the Commeroial Atteché of the following shinments of gold:
On the SS XINKWA MARU, March 27, O,000,000 yon
On the 88 KOMAKI MARU, Apr11 8, 20,000,000 yen
On the 88 TITIBU MARU, Apr11 9, 30.000,000 yen
//1
Thie Benk of Janan official believes that the epartment
of Finance has already advised the Financial Commissioner of
Wew York of these shioments, and that the latter will inform
CLLED AUTY: leter
the United tates Trensury vith regard thereto.
y
EA: LWW

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM dated March 28. 1938 from Grew
U.S. Ambassador to Tokvo. regarding Gold Shipments
#211
DISTRIBUTION
Office Symbol
Office Title
Chief. or Heed of Office
S
Secretary
Cordell Hull
U
Under Secretary
Summer Welles
C
Counselor
R. Walton Moore
A-M
Assistant Secretary
George S. Messeramith
A-S
Assistant Secretary
Francis B. Sayre
A-
Assistant Secretary
Hugh R. Wilson
SA
Special Assistant to the Secretary of
Leo Pasvolsky
State
FEIS
Adviser on International Economic Affairs Herbert Feis
FE
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Maxwell M. Hamilton
FA
Division of Foreign Service Administra- Nathaniel P. Davis
tion
A-M/C
Consular Commercial Office
James J. Murphy, Jr.
PA/H
Adviser on Political Relations
Stanley K. Hornbeck

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.89)
Japan ef the following gold shipmente (presumably to the U.s.):
80,000,000 yen on March 87 via the Kinkwe maru, 0,000,000 yen v1a
the Kemaki Maru on Apr11 8 and 30,000,000 yen via the Tit1bu Maru
oApr119.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
Maroh 28, 1938.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses six copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 211
of March 28, 1938, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.57/566
894
Enclosure:
6 copies, No. 211
from Tokyo, Maroh 28.
F/FG
FE
EA: LWW
HF
icew

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.94)
REOFIVEP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR. HORNBECK
MAR 25638
MAR 2 8 1938
DIVISION OF
ADVISER ON
PA/N
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Maroh 25, 1938.
MAR 2 8 1938
74
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dr. Feis:
The following message was received over the
telephone at 5:10 p.m. from Mr. Lochhead, Treasury
Department:
"We are informed by the Japanese Commercial
894.51/567
Attaché in New York that Japan is making three
shipments of gold to the United States of
approximately $6,000,000 each. Sailings from
Japan are March 37, April 5, and April 9."
894.51
EA:BMF
F/FG

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
8400
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
53 06
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 18, 1938.
No. 2819.
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE BUDGET, APRIL 1, 1938 TO MARCH 31, 1939.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
APR 2 9 1938
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
Con
Treasnry
Eac
894.51/568
(MTARY
894.51.
OSTA
APR 23 1038
A-M/C
RECORDING DESK
FILE - C.B.M.
Division of
B
8
FAR EASTEAN AFIAINS
APR938
Department of Stae
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MAY161938
Washington.
FILED
Sir:
On March 16, 1938, there was promulgated the Japan-
ese general budget for the fiscal year running from April 1,
1938 through March 31, 1939 which was recently approved by
the Diet. It has not been possible in the two days which
have elapsed since the promulgation to prepare a complete
detailed study, but as a preliminary the present brief
F/EG
despatch

=== Page 73 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
despatch is submitted.
The 1928-1939 general budget is balanced at Y2,867,796,855,
practically the same figure as for the preceding fiscal year
(¥ 2,813,937,971). As usual the general budget is divided into
ordinary and extraordinary accounts, and as usual this differ-
entiation does not appear particularly significant. Combining
the ordinary and extraordinary expenditures into single totals
for the various departments gives the following general budget
expenditures for the fiscal year 1938-1939:
Civil list
¥4,500,000
Foreign Affairs
29,059,425
Home Affairs
236,606,922
Finance
690,438,516
Army
564,594,189
Navy
677,358,440
Justice
43,217,850
Education
143,813,577
Agriculture and Forestry 108,007,197
Commerce and Industry
43,917,342
Communications
215,394,317
Overseas Affairs
25,264,001
Welfare
85,625,079
Total expenditures of the
1938-1939 general budget
￥2,867,796,855
It should be borne in mind that the Japanese system of account-
ing debits to the Department of Finance a large number of heavy
expenditures which are in fact for the benefit of other depart-
ments.
In the present state of affairs in Japan particular in-
terest attaches to the revenue side of the budget. This also
is divided into ordinary and extraordinary items. Revenue of
the 1938-1939 general budget is itemized as follows:
Ordinary

=== Page 74 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
ORDINARY REVENUE
Taxes
Income tax
￥536,627,006
Land tax
51,085,222
Business profit tax
92,466,189
Capital tax
33,129,297
Corporation tax
20,654,811
Inheritance tax
36,015,151
Mining tax
8,711,725
Foreign loans tax
2,714,345
Liquor tax
269,499,606
Beverage tax
4,917,140
Sugar
103,189,996
Textile tax
35,720,350
Gasoline tax
16,156,800
Exchange tax
30,378,236
Transfer tax
3,424,227
Customs revenue
175,825,497
Tonnage dues
3,008,680
Total taxes
¥1,425,424,278
Stamp duties
99,592,323
Revenue from Government enterprises
and Government property
Forests
49,866,127
Monopoly Bureau
243,768,412
Government Printing Office
3,469,538
Senju Woollen Factory
5,826
Naval arsenals
2,740,000
Naval fuel refineries
323,862

=== Page 75 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
Rentals
￥ 721,933
Dividends
29,410,048
Prisons
11,065,376
Total revenue from Government
enterprises and Government property ¥ 341,371,122
Communications. special account
81,500,000
Bank of Japan
15,066,086
Miscellaneous
Licenses and fees
727,849
Fines and confiscations
2,681,328
Compensations and penalties 434,411
Miscellaneous customs re-
ceipts
1,891,999
Pension refunds
4,499,355
Pension reapportionments
2,206,337
Pension special accounts
27,309,855
Tuition of paying students
214,560
in military school
Receipts from Ogasawara
1,213
Islands
Interest
.173,916
Racing associations
10,241,917
Miscellaneous receipts
4,936,951
Total miscellaneous revenues
55,319,691
Carried over from special agricultural
6,755,227
communities account
Total Ordinary Revenue
2,023,028,727
EXTRAORDINARY REVENUE
Sale of Government property
6,754,805
Miscellaneous receipts
17,821,477

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
Contributions for harbor
￥5,165,719
construction
Contributions from public
7,805,376
bodies for riparian and road-
work
31,000
Contributions for scientific
investigation
3,542,623
Transfer from special accounts
3,047,607
Insurance company levies
1,399,000
Export indemnification receipts
Contribution from "Manchukuo"
19,500,000
for national defense
78,836,782
Extraordinary profit tax
6,700,000
Special account transfer from
Government departments
3,804,031
Earthquake bonds
7,946,350
Road construction bonds
124,617,380
Manchurian Incident bonds
557,795,978
Deficit bonds
¥844,768,128
Total Extraordinary Revenue
￥2,867,796,855
GRAND TOTAL
Respectfully·yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
851
CC:C
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.93)
7566
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 19, 1938.
No. 2826.
SUBJECT:
FIVE BILLION YEN JAPANESE BUDGET FOR CHINA
INCIDENT.
Coky in 7E
894.5
te
Q5
793.99
3
COMVUOTIONS
N RDS
Conmerce in fill
1-
11
894.51/569
Livision of
FAH LASTERALLAIHS
APR1938
A-M/C
RECORDING DESK
FILE - C.B.M.
OFFICE OF THE A
INTERNA
?5
6
APR 1 9 1938
DEPARTMENT 
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
APR 201938
Washington.
FILED
Sir:
On March 12, 1938 the Japanese House of Peers ap-
proved a supplementary buaget of ¥4,850,000,000 for the
China incident, for 1938-1939 requirements; and passage
through the Diet was thereby completed. Its official
F/FG
promulgation has not yet come to the attention of the
Embassy, but a newspaper account of this budget bill is
enclosed

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
enclosed for the Department's preliminary information.
It will be noted that there is no itemization of the ex-
penditures other than a simple division between the Army
(¥3,257,000,000), the Navy (¥1,043,000,000), and the
Finance Ministry ($550,000,000).
This supplementary budget is separate from and in
addition to the general 1938-1939 budget of ¥2,867,796,855
reported in despatch 2819, March 18, 1938.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure
1/ Clipping, "Fighting Estimates Presented to Diet,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, March 1, 1938.
851
CC:C
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No./, to despatch
No.2826 , dated March/9,1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, March 1, 1938.
FIGHTING ESTIMATES
Public bonds and company
debentures interest.
2,268
Transit
8,624
Admission
11,274
PRESENTED TO DIET
Special admission
120
Special articles
64,620
Special articles by stamps...
220
Provisional profit
39,851
Juridical persons
33,888
Figures of Details Differ Slight-
Individuals
5,963
Total
318,372
ly From Those Published
The net increase in normal years will
be ¥314,329,000. says the Asahi, as a de-
Last Week
crease of ¥4,042,000 is expected from
enforcement of the provisional tax dis-
position law. Increase or decreases
DONATIONS PUT IN BUDGET
subsequent to that law follow in ¥1,-
000 units:
Land taxes
907
Provisional Tax Increases Ex-
Field (rice paddies)
732
Farm
175
pected to Yield ¥318,372,-
Business profit tax.
1,988
000 Next Year
Juridical persons
Individuals
798
190
Mining taxes
312
Products
147
The Government presented to the
Special products
417
House of Representatives yesterday the
Placer gold mining lots
4,850,000,000 supplementary budget for
Textile consumption tax..
633
the China incident. Though the total
Balance
4,042
Tax Reform Prospects
remains unchanged, some of the de-
Finance Minister Okinori Kaya, re-
tails differ from those reported after
the Cabinet approved the budget on
Friday.
plying to a questioner in a Lower
House committee meeting examining
bills for increased taxation yesterday,
The outline of the incident estimates
said fundamental taxation reform can
given by Domei follows in ¥1.000
be accomplished only when the pro-
units:
spect of permanent stabilization in the
Expenditures
economic world becomes certain, ac-
War Office
3,257,000
cording to Domei. Any drastic changes
Navy Office
1,043,000
now would be impossible due to the
Finance Ministry (reserves).
550,000
present situation, he added.
Total
4,850,000
The questioner was Mr. Suegoro
Revenues
Kawasaki, Minseito, who asked whe-
Bond issues
4,453,489
ther the Government had any inten-
Donations to defense funds.
1.000
tion of seeking fundamental reforms in
North China incident special
view of necessity for increased taxa-
taxes
9.023
tion in wartime.
Transfer from various special
Mr. Kawasaki demanded an expla-
accounts
1,601
nation of the increase of the taxation
Transfer from general
burden in the provinces as a result of
counts (revenue from China
the present situation. The Finance
incident special taxes)
318,301
Minister expressed sympathy with the
Transfer
from
Kwantung
people in towns and villages for de-
Bureau special account......
4,224
crease in their incomes but he be-
Transfer from Communica-
sought their courage to assist in the
tions enterprises special ac-
emergency by supporting the Govern-
count
16,000
ment's policy.
Transfer from railway special
The interpellator
continued:
"I
account
40,000
want to hear the opinion of the auth-
Transfer from Korean special
orities of the Home Ministry as to why
acount
26,452
the amount of the special transfer to
Transfer from
Formosan spe-
the provinces for the 1938 fiscal year is
cial account
13,865
limited to ¥100,000,000. Parliamentary
Transfer from
Saghalien spe-
Vice-Minister Nagakichi Shoda replied
cial account
2,634
that the Home Ministry had admitted
Total.
4,886,591
the necessity of increasing the amount
The Lower House tax committee re-
and now is negotiating with the Fin-
ceived from the Government yester-
ance Ministry.
day the following estimates, given in
Mr. Kaya interspersed that "it would
¥1,000 units, of revenue increases to
be unwise to allow the increase, tech-
result from the tax revisions being con-
nically speaking, when we think of
sidered by the committee:
Kind of Tax
Increase
the burden on the next generation, ab-
Income
Class B
Class A
57,888
4,077
126,868
and possible inflation."
interpellator that he would do his best
sorption of bonds, commodity prices
The Minister, however, assured the
Juridical persons' capital.
Sugar
Class C
64,902
10,834
3,927
to increase the amount as much as
possible, taking demands by Diet
Bourse
9,794
members and others into consideration.
Profit dividend
39,967

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
RHCEIVED
AND CONSIDERATION
APR1938
30 Route Doumer
MAt M Dutyne
Shanghai,China
Mar.10,1938
Instructionito Shanghai
Secretary to the President
844-51
President Franklin D. Roosevelt
Division of
White House
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington,D.C.
Dear Mr. President:
April 22 1938.
APR 8 - 1938
kiee
DepartnSate
Information has been received in Shanghai that
Japan is making an effort to secure a loan from the United
States government with the understanding that she will use
894.51/570
the money to buy cotton in the American market.
As a protest
against this loan, the following catle is being sent to you:
ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY-SEVEN AMEFICANS IN SHANGHAI STRONGLY PRO-
TEST COTTON AND OTHER LOANS TC JAPAN.
SIGNATURES MAILED.
It is impertant to state that this cable with
these signatures represents more than just the signing of
so many names. Many of those signing said, "I wish I could
APR
sign ten times."
"I wish I were a doven people."
FILED
N
We as American citizens have had cause in the
3
past to be proud of the stand that our government has taken
8
in matters of international treaty-making, and treaty observance.
We were glad for your Chicogo speech, and we believe the
State Department in working out trade agreements between the
United States and other nations is pursuing a sound and con-
structive policy.
F/M
Put if the United States government should make
loans of any kind to Japan, it would not only support her in
n

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
her flouting of international treaties, but it would cause
China to doubt seriously the sincerity of America's professed
friendship for her. In this conflict we have already, as
American citizens, been greatly embarassed y the sale of
war materials by private citizens in America to Japan, and
we would be still more embarassed by a government loan.
From an economic point of vi w, loans to Japan may
well prove to be a short-sighted policy. In the matter of
cotton, for instance, if Japan wins the war she plans to
raise all the cotton she needs in North-Chi a, and the J.S.
cotton market will be seriously affct d.
Mr.J. P. Powell, editor of the China Weekly Review,
(whose signature to t e coble will be found on sheet o.3)
has .a leading editoriol in t e issue of the Review for Feb-
ruary 26th ent tled, "Will Americo Lend Japan Money to Fuy
Cotton?"
He closes with these words: "The Tapanese have
unconscously presented to President Roosev-lt a means of
bringing an end to the w r in the Far Eact."
In the nare
of internetion 1 l w d humanity, ve wich to ur e you,
Mr.President, to toYe adventage of this means.
3ic rely yours,
J. B. Hifof
J.F.HipoS
(Note: This cable has to re sent frot Honolulu beca se of
Japanese censorship of cables in shavrhsi).

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.76)
IDENT FRANKLIN D.ROOSEVELT
ATE HOUSE
ASHINGTON, D.C.
ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY-SEVEN
AMERICANS STRONGLY PROTEST
COTTON AND OTHER LOANS TO JAPAN. SIGNATURES MAILED.
24. hottie 4. Ufford.
1. Cariton ey
2s. Telithe 1. Menlach
2. . 13. Hips
3..Baon
26. Olelerawford
E Helay tove
. Anuce E. suoh
5. Ritlie Hmy
6at t Kra
7. trrly
79.ua
30. Many Pilacteti a
8. 7 a. Whited
31. Jean 
4. jou h. onith
aryoker
10. h tlh kefler
.
1. Lomry Llavis
35. Rabni F. Flh.
12. Lynian 7. Hale
36. Mina E. Nill.
13. Jalm P. Mimtir
37. Bessin. G H.ollow
is mrs. W. Rolent Taylor
.Seamm B.Sulein
1s. Jorary T. Daves
39. R.M.White
11. Eugina Dunis
40. Dan d Horand Whte
17. Grace D. Crodael
4. Mabei Ruit Nowlin
40.C
19. Ollen J. Pitrsy
44. hi  lage
21. Telen B. yoter
22. Leoyd thsen ghien
22 artha C. ZWileon

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.80)
Sheet No. R
REBIDENT FRANKLIN D.ROOSFVELT
WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON, D.C.
AMERICANS STRONGLY PPOTEST
COTTON AND OTHER LOANS TO JAPAN. SIGHATURFS MAILED.
41. EllenSruwwsak
12. J.H. Berckman
Zlorince Jickles.
48.
13Put Berctman
44.Phousm
 Tr
 Gd 
53. Marie Brethont
54. Chao. t. multe
55 E lnabeth B. 0'Haulon
18.
19.
66. Pearl K. Wull.
5i. Clarisa 1. Forstr
30.
ss. Rrith M. © hester
82.
54. Cathr Of. Prce
60. Marpaet5C Thoeust,
83. Lrane Buee
84. Franes Cacl
1. Elsin v. mathi
85. Mae Broun
w2. Edna To. Gish,
 Crmlia . Mils
86. Helen H. on tadyen
87. di Jphuard
04. P. 7. Paice
65. dilliath R. Batey
os. Lucy Grier
6f ctank.
1.M. a. yhstna
i. feau . Nawk
MoMillians.to
90. Harrich M Pr hitser
91. Mm. Ad Dyhstes
69. i Lon W eliams
71.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.78)
Sheet No.3
BIDENT FRAWKLIN D.ROOSIVELT
LITE HOUSE
WABHINGTON, D.C.
AMERICANS STRONGLY PROTEST
GOTTON AND OTHER LOANS TO JAPAN. SIGNATURES MAILED.
Ginnca A. Aelson 16 Mary Bibb Ware
.B. J
Jane Q Idyule
Edyth E. Boryd
" @ A Lond
Shabeth E. M d
Mary B. Tiftou.
Gene uller
Hncnill
1.2 Qlice H. Gregg
dein B. Stamg
124. F. M. Wengay
7. Mo. & R Muva
12
anme B. McLlaniel
milackson
16. 0. 
Saila M. uc Millan
121. JeabelleLawis Main
mo. Wilaon Fieldee .ice C. Namit
Blanche Sroves
127. teangauts. Hiptr
Sallie on. Jamer
Lerene sieferd
P.w. Habnle
g..gokoom
dononwood
gy  nt

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.80)
Sheet No.4
BIDENT PRANKLIN D.NOOSEVELT
NITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON, D.C.
AMERICANS STRONGLY PROTEST
COTTON AND OTHER LOANS TO JAPAN. SIGNATURES MAILED.
10 Sarak Flean
155. Jack R. Im = h, fr.
131. Mory Ellan Nowk
132. Mary M.Tarrant
132. magunct m Rue
134
nsdlice Green
116. Mitlie g-Shalton
137. m g gie g.0 Ro pees
138.W.1
139. Cmabei lo. nk ntosh
140 gul m bra
141. Pearic McCuin
142. aidilde Willeng
143. Lilliem Knobla
144.Grhia 4liphin7
145: alice belsup
196. Many Winn
1. Vugmia M. amn
. Tile M. Stallnig
149. Pate B. Hackincey
100. E. hRel
151. W.B. Burke
152 Olive L. Gudersan
153. Bui A Spa
154. Shlnderson

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.80)
(SheetNo.5)
RESIDENT FRANKLIN D.RCOSEVELT
WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTCN,D.C.
ANERICANS STRONGLY
PROTEST COTTON AND CTHER LO/S TC JAPAN. SIGNATURES MAILED.
156. any Omof Ablman
151. Ruth L. Pfilet
188 ephine G hawnen
154. Mone Cols MdeDol.
60. Vegues Jozion mroich.
161. 1aame I d 1 ardrch
162. ilizake th menter
163. Helen @. Scally
16, Jeitude P.Llungan
16. Marix 4. Whilener
166 Hebee Me Crackece
1. Emma Matns
14. M, M.C. brry
. Clara S. Meson.
170. Edard 4. 
a. Mary M. Wilbur (Mio Ha)
a2. H a Willur
173. Juniata Rickatt
174. Omany Jumer
16. Pauli VanEnera
o Lusie C. Olien r.g.c)

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.79)
Sheet No.s
dary A. lyers.
Nelle B. Boone
o. WilmotBoene
1. Oni L. Todnem
Sa 1-.
13. Ada @. Ruxxel,
184. Grace Darling
ins ttt a tealle C. Sirilth
(86. Ecaleie
7 Ruth H. Walline

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.91)
April 22 1938.
o.
To the
Americen Consular Officer in cherge.
Shanghai, China.
The Seoretary of State has received, by referenoe
from the white House, a letter of Maroh 10, 1938, and
a telegram of Maroh 21, 1938, from Mr. J. B. Hipps,
so Route Doumer, Shanghai, China, with rogard to the
reported desire or Japan to obtain in the United States
894.51/570
a loan to be used for the purohase of Amerioan cotton.
Mr. Hipps transmits the signatures of one hundred
eighty-seven Amerieans protesting against this and
other loans to Japan.
The Seeretary of State requests that the Consular
Ofrieer in oharge, unless he perceives objection thereto,
make appropriate aeknowledgment of Mr. Hipps' letter
and telegrem and inform him that their contents have
rescived eareful eonsideration.
06.51/090
cous
EAM
4/19/38
m.20./H.
A trug copy of
led origi-
truu10

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
894.51
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.50/102
FOR-.#2813-
SEE
FROM
Japan
) DATEDMarch.17,1938.
TO
NAME
1—1127
894.51/
Japan's economic and financial position.
REGARDING:
Reporting concerning-, encloses copy of memorandum of conversa-
tion between officers of the Standard-Vacuum Company and the
Minister of Commerce and Industry, March 2, together with copy
5
of U.S. Commercial Attache's memorandum of March 16, 1938.
7
FRG.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
HEF
1—1336
FROM
Tokyo
This telegran must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated April 15,1938
forE being communicated
to anyonE (A)
Rec'd 2:15 a.m.
OFFICE OF THE AUVISER
C6
Secretary of State
INTERNATIONAL ECUNIMIC AFFAIRS
APR 1 5 1938
Washington
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
247, Apri1 15, 10 a.m.
CONFIDENTIAL
894.51/572
VicE GovErnor of thE Bank of Japan has informEd thE
Commercial AttachE that a shipment of gold amounting to
20,OO0,OO0 yEn was madE from KobE pEr SS KINAI MARU to
San Francisco on April 13.
GREW
RR :
APR 201938
FILED
F/A

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.91)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAN R ECEIVD
TROMI
American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATEI
Apr11 15, 1938, 10 e.m.
NO.:
247
CONFIDENTIAL.
The Commeroiel Attache has been told by the vice
Governor of the Bank of Japan that on the thirteenth
of April a shipment of gold was made from Kobe per
SB KINAI WAKU to San ranciseo in the amount of
20.000,000 yon.
GREE.
KA:LWW

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
Apr11 15, 1938.
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses six copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 24?
of Apr11 15, 1938, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/572
894.5
55
7
2
A
FE
EA:LWW
eou

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2859.
Tokyo, March 31, 1938.
SUBJECT: 1937 FINANCIAL ANNUAL OF JAPAN.
894.51
or Distthution Cheek
Grade
1.
For
In U.S A
Division of
FAR EASTEDN AFFAIRS
PAR  SA
938 A  1 1 56
APR
COMMUNIGATIONS
Copyin 7E
EED
I AIS11N OF
Departsltnt of State
OFFICE OF THE A
i5
APR 2 31938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDE
PUBLICATIONS SECTION
AFR191938
The Honorable
SECARY
STATE
The Secretary of State,
I Copy anel to Li
894.51/573
Washington.
Sir
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of the 1937 issue of the financial and economic annual
put out in English by the Japanese Department of. Finance
APR 291938
FILED
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
Two copieS of THE THIRTY-SEVENTH
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL
OF JAPAN, 1937.
020.
CC:g
F/FG

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 2 6 1938
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONALECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Apr11 26, 1938.
Hamilton:
938.
Would you consider substituting for the last para-
graph the following:
"The Department is not aware that any
loans or credits have been obtained in the
United States by Japanese borrowers except
those extended in connection with Japanese
export-import trade".
Owing to the fact that we are on notice that the
City Bank and other banks are extending credits to Japan-
ese interests, the length and maturities of which we know
almost nothing about, I do not think it wise for the De-
partment to commit itself to the term "short term". Though
the business of armament trade may be becoming "usual"
I still hope that the Department will avoid looking at it
that way and regard the financing of such trade as "unusual".
I suppose also the question might be raised as to the
investments of American branch plants in Japan in Japanese
Government bonds. Personally, I should also prefer being
candid on that point also, rather than using the phrase
"obtained in the United States" and frankly say some-
thing of the following:
"It is understood that a few of the
branch plants of American enterprises in Japan
have been induced by circumstances to purchase
amounts of Japanese Government bonds."
HF
EA:HF:LWW
