894.5123 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Taxation. Processing Tax. For Treaties, Conventions, Arrangements, Ect., Add Country Number, Using Smaller Number Of Country For **., Japan, In (File 1804)
ID: 894.5123-1804   Pages: 47   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5123-financial-conditions-budget-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
since
28 August 1946
AUG 2 9 1946
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
The Honorable Dean Aoheson
Acting Secretary of State
Washimgton, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
SEP-31946
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commigsiom previde
that the Commission "may make such arrangements through the chairman
5123/8-2846
the Allied Powers."
At the twenty-fourth meeting of the Far Eastern Comission,
held at 2516 Massachusetts Avemue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on
28 August 1946, the enolosed request for consultation with the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers relative to extraordinary taxation in
Japan was unanimously adopted by the Commission.
As Chairman of the Far Eastern Commission, I m forwarding
this request to you for transmission, in suoh form as mmy be appro-
priate, to the Supreme Commander.
VT
In adopting the enclosed request for oonsultation, the Com-
mission agreed that it should be released to the press along with the
message from the Supreme Commander to which it has reference (FEC-055/7).
a copy of whioh I am also enolosing for your information. The Supreme
CS/A
Commander has already expressed to me his willingness that any message
from him to the Commission might be released to the press, provided
that he might have an opportunity to release it at the same time in
Tokyo. The Commission, therefore, intends to release both doouments
forty-eight hours after receipt in Tokyo of the enolosed consultatiom,
so as to give the Supreme Commander time to provide for simaltaneous
release if he so desires. I would appreciate it if you could make
arrangements to notify the Seoretary General when the enelosed eon-S
sultation is dispatohed to Tokyo and when it has been received.
FILED
Because of the intention of releasing the enolosure te the:
894.5123
transmission prior to the time or release.
CK OFD Unit
Sincerely yours,
a
N
Frowh
theeor
R.er.
11
181.
Frank R. MoCoy
3-2846
Chairman
Enclosures

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
The attaohed copy of a dooument unanimously
adopted at the twenty-fourth meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission, held at 25l6 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest,
Washington, D. C., on 28 August 1946, has been compared
with the official text and is hereby certified to be
correot.
HughiD, Dacley
Hugh D. Farley
Aoting Seoretary General
Washington, D. C.
28 August 1946

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
ENCLOSURE
CONSULTATION WITH THE SUPREME COMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWERS RELATIVE TO EXTRAORDIMARY
TAXATION IN JAPAN
The Far Eastern Commission requests its chairman to inform the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers that it welcomes the message
8 4ujust,194
The disoussions of the Commission were solely concerned with the
possible application to nationals of Members of the United Mations
of any such laws; and the Commission appreciates the Supreme
Commander's statement that adequate safeguards will be achieved to
proteot Allied interests.
8C-016/8

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICT3D
180-055/7
15 Azuat 1946
FAR EAS TERN COMMISSION
IFOAMAL CONMUNICATION RROM THE SUPREME COMMANDER
FOR THE  LLIED PONERS RELATIVE TO EXTRAORDINARY TAXATION IN JAPAN
(Refarences: SC-016/5; SC-J16/6; C2-003; C2-J03/1;
C2-003/2; F3C-055/5; C2-0151
Note by the Secretary General
1. Ihe anclosur, un informal communication frox the
Supreme Comnader for the Allied rowers relative to extra-
ordinary taxution in Japun, subaitted by tns United Statas
reprusentative, is circulated herewith and is referred to
COMMITTEE NO. 2: CONO.IC AND FI L NCIAL AFFAIRS nd tO COM-
MITIEE NO. 6:
ALINS IN JAFAN.
2. The =nclosure is referred to Committee No. 6 in
connection witn the study of SC-Ol6/6, Report of Committee No.
6: Alisns in Japan, on the Question of the Application of
Extriordinury Tax Laws to Nationals of Membars of the United
Nations.
3.
Ths enclosure is referred to Connittee No. 2:
Economic und Financial ffairs, in connection with the study
of C2-Oi5, Clains for Compensation By Ja anase War Industries.
4. The attention of members of the Comnission is
invited to thos: sections of the nclosure referring to the
capital levy, which are related to the Comlission's policy
decision on Japanse Taxation of liens (Fc-055/5), approvad
18 July 1940.
5. Ine attention f all concerned is iavited to the
classificution of this document which prohibits the dissemina-
ticn of tne information contained therein to unauthorizad
persons or to tne press.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Sacretary Gemral

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
HECLOSUBE
LIFORATION F LATIVE XTRAORDINARY TAXATION  JAV
The following message has been received from the Suprem
Com ander for the Allied Powers with regard to latest plans
for extraordinary taxation in Japan:
"Tax Program prepared by Japenese Government after
detailud study with guidance by members of this staff
incluies Capital Levy on inlividuals only, excluding United
Neciuns Nationais. Concurrent with Capital Levy there is
baing imposad l00, tax on idannity clains against the
Goverrmant growing out of the wer. Phese measures together
with arantee of small deposits and establishment of
government finance agencies are designed to effect (a)
Laxiaum recapture of war profits; (b) sound reorganization
of Japunese Banking System; (c) minimum disruption assential
industrial production; (d) imposition of major taxation
burlon on high income class.
"Above program will be ready for submission to Diat
in mid-August and forced introduction of new measures suoh
as (a) increased Froperty Tax Law and (b) Nar Frofits Tax
as imposed on juridical persons would cause serious disruption
of orgunized plans of governnent for tax collection and
create islays detrimental to badly needed programs for essen-
tial industrial roduction and economic stabilization. Above
weasures were censidered and rejected here because of ad-
ministrative difficulties crested in connection with colleo-
tion processes and becuuse of conviction that results
dasired can be obtained with greater certainty through premant
simplified program.
"Ade luate sufeguards will be achieved here to protect
Allied interests. It is urged that Far astern Commission
be reguosted not to take formal action on substantive aspeots
of tax program until opportunity for com ent has been accorded
to Supr me Commander for the Allied Powers.
"ill forward complete details approved Japanese Tax
rrogran earliest. If adjustments required subsaquently by
Far Eastern Commission tnese can be accomplished here after
fipal onaipation hog nean acniavad."

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
26 August 1966
The Eemorable Deam Aeheson
Aoting Seoretary of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
The Terms of Referenee of the Far Basterm Cemmissiem previde
that the Commission "may make such arrangements through the shairmas
as may be practicable for consultation with the Supreme Commamder fer
the Ailied Powers."
At the twenty-fourth meeting of the Far Eastern Comiesiem,
held at 2516 Massaekusetts Avemue, Northmest, Washingtom, D. C., 
26 August 19l6, the emelosed request for consultation with the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Pewers relative to extraordimary tamatien in
Japan was unanimously adopted by the Commission.
As Chairman of the Far Eastern Comsdesion, I em formarding
this request to you for transmission, in such form as may be appro-
priate, to the Supreme Commander.
In adopting the enclosed request for eonsultatien, the Com-
mission agreed that it should be released to the press along with the
message from the Supreme Commander to which it has referenee (Psc-0ss/7).
a copy of whioh I am also enolosing for your informatiom. The Supreme
Commander has already expressed to me his willingaess that asy message
from him to the Commission might be released to the press, previded
that he might have an oppertunity to release it at the same time is
Tokyo. The Commission, therefore, intemde to release beth deeumemts
forty-eight hours after reseipt in Tokye ef the enelesed esmsaltatiem,
so as to give the Supreme Commander time te previde for simaltameess
release if he so desires. I would appreciate it if yeu seuld make
arrangements to notify the Seeretary General when the emelesed sem-
sultation is dispatebed to Tokyo and when it has been reeeived.
Because of the intention of releasing the emelesure te the
press, we have not classified it, but I understand that yeu may desire
to make some arrangements to preserve a degree of seeurity im its
transmission prior to the time of release.
Sincerely yours,
Prank R. MoCey
Chairman
Enclosures

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.88)
BHOLOBBRE
TAYATICR.TAA
The Far Eastern Cemmissien requests ite chairman te inferm the
Supreme Cemmander for the Allied Powers that it welecmes the meesnge
frem the Supreme Commander on extraerdimary tazatien (F20-095/7).
The diseussiems of the Commission wore celely cemeermed with the
pessible applieatiem to mationals of Mambers of the Daited Matieme
of axy such lams, and the Cemmission appreciates the Supreme
Commander's statement that adequate safeguards will be echieved to
proteet Allied interests.
8C-016/0

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.92)
 30,1940
AENORANDUN POR THE SECRETARY BVOLO
Subjeot:
Coneultation with the Supreme Commander for
894.
the Allied Powere Relative to Extraerdiaary
Taxation in Japan
The Far Eastern Commlssion, acting under paragraph
5
VI or its Terms of Referenoe, which provides that the
Commission "may make such arrangements through the
Chairman as may be practicable for somsultation with
33
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers", requested
8-
1ts Chairman on August 28, 1946 to coneml8 wiih the
Supreme Commander of the Allied Pewers on the matter
-2846
referred to in paragraph I of the enolosure.
A statement of the Chairman of the Commission in
reference to the release to the Press of the consulta-
vT
tive message and reference telegram from the Sapreme
Commander is contained in paragraph II of the enalesure.
It is requested that the attaohed enolosure be
CS/A
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for trans-
mission to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
J. H. Hilldring
FP419
State Department Kember
State-War-Navy Coordinating Cormittee
Enclosure:
JAlladryillb
N03

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
1.
EMCLOSURE
CONBULTATIO ITA THE SUPRHE O
POR THE ALLTED PONERA RELATIVE TO EXTRAORDTBANX
O
1. The Fer Lastern Commiesion reymests its
Chairman to inform the Supreme Commander for the
Allled Powers that it welcomes the message from the
Supreme Commander on extraordinary taxation (0-Im l819,
8 August, 1946). The discuasions or the Commission
were solely concerned with the possible applicatien to
nationsls of Members of the United Mations of any
euch leva; end the Commiesion appreclates the Supreme
Commander's statement that adequate safeguards will
be achieved to protect Allied interests.
2. The Chairman of the Far Eastern Commission
advises thst in adopting the above, the Commission
agreed that it should be relessed to the Press along
with the meseege from the Supreme Commander to which
1t has referenze (Cm-IN 1819, 8 August 1946). As the
Supreme Commander hae elready expressed to the Chairman
of the Commission that any mesesge from him to the
Commlesion might be released to the prees, provided
that be might have an opportunity to release it at
the ssme time in Tokyo, the Commiesion intend, ", release
bo

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.88)
doommats ferty-eighs hours after recolpt La Tokye
of the above ccmmasicatism. It is requested, there-
fore, that reosipt of this message be nokmewledged.
80-016/8
JAIHLoryillD
A一
8/30/46

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
CONFIDENTIAL
Collect
Department of State
Charge Department
CONFIDENTI
Washington
Charge to
CONFIDENTIAL
Control 4282
CHKEXREETXIX
May 20, 1948
1 P.M.
894.5123/5-2048
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo,
Info: Army Chief of Staff.
194
For Acting Political Adviser.
Following question raised FEC re taxation
in-
come
foreign nationals: Does total income of foreign
national i.e. income in yen plus income in non-yen
8
currency determine bracket on basis of which yen income
is taxed? If so how will law be implemented ref
foreign nationals
to be consistent with provision
that non-yen income not taxable under para 3 of SCAPIN
4938-A, Nov 29, 1947?
From cursory survey of Jap Income Tax Law  Mar 15,
1947 it appears  total income of foreign national is
subject to taxation and
total income determines
bracket on basis of which income taxed. Comments requested.
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Marhall
(OFFICES ONLY)
(gna)
MARSHALL
C
124
FD U
CONFIDENTIAL
S
grom alo
9
CONFIDENTIAL
PAN
CR CLEARANCE
NA:ALDunning:mp
5-14-48
FE
OE
L/P
OR/K
MAY 20 1948. PM.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
Forta Da-80S
orri
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
FAR EASTEN
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
MAY 28 1948
INCOMING
D. MAY2821988
OF STATEL
A
CONFIOR
H
9
Control 9470
Action:
FE
Rec'd May 28, 1948
Info
9:02 a.m.
E
L
894.5123/5-2848
OCD
CIA
DCL
FROM:
Tokyo
OFD
DCR
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C-61006, May 28 (Aray Message)
FROM SCAP TO STATE DEPARTMENT
REURAD 194, May 20.
Under present Japanese income tax law and application
of Paragraph three SCAPIN 4938-A, 29 November, 1947,
only yen income level determines income tax bracket
rates, as non yen income 1s not sub ject to Japanese
taxation.
WFS:EJF
894.5151
JAN 3119
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL
TAX COMMITTEE
Chairman:
111
Felix Dartow
1904
International General Electric Co.
July 18/51949
NEW YORK 4
Spocial Couneel
7/21
MITCHELL B. CARBOLL
1194
DEPARTMENT DE STATE
49567
UnIstIN oF F
The Honorable Dean Acheson
Secretary of State
Department of State
AUG241949
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OFS
8-25-49
Attention: Mr. Frederick Livesey
894.5123/7-1249
Department of State
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The question has been raised as to whether
it is possible to conclude a convention for the
avoidance of international double taxation with the
present government of Japan, before the Treaty of
Peace is concluded. I would appreciate your advis-
ing me whether this can be done.
Yours respectfully
55
8
914 A
PD
201949
179542
CS/CC
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
E512
a
1.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
To : L/T - Mr. Whittington
DATE: Soptember 15, 194
LEGAL ADVISER
SEP161949
SUBJECT: As attached
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
I am referring attached to you as per our
telophone conversation. FN agrees that our draft
prepared August 25, 1949, should not be sent to
Mr. Carroll.
LT
4
SEP161949
FD UNIT
TREATY BRANOH
OFD:FN:Strong/mjp

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT SERIES 236
COOPERATIVE WAR EFFORT
DECLARATION BY UNITED NATIONS
Washington, January 1, 1942
AND
DECLARATION KNOWN AS THE
ATLANTIC CHARTER
August 14, 1941
UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1942
Fer anle by the Saperimtendent of Dooumonte, Waakingten, D. C.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PUBLICATION 1732

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
DECLARATION BY UNITED NATIONS:
A JOINT DECLARATION BY THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND.
THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS, CHINA, AUSTRALIA.
BELGIUM, CANADA, COSTA RICA, CUBA, CZECHOSLOVAKIA, DOMINI-
CAN REPUBLIC, EL SALVADOR, GREECE, GUATEMALA, HAITI, HON.
DURAS, INDIA, LUXEMBOURG, NETHERLANDS, NEW ZEALAND. NICA.
RAGUA, NORWAY, PANAMA, POLAND. SOUTH AFRICA. YUGOSLAVIA.
The Governments signatory hereto,
Having subscribed to a common program of purposes and principles
embodied in the Joint Declaration of the President of the United
States of America and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland dated August 14, 1941, known as
the Atlantic Charter. [']
Being convinced that complete victory over their enemies is essen-
tial to defend life, liberty, independence and religious freedom, and
to preserve human rights and justice in their own lands as well as in
other lands, and that they are now engaged in a common struggle
against savage and brutal forces seeking to subjugate the world,
DECLARE:
(1) Each Government pledges itself to employ its full resources,
military or economic, against those members of the Tripartite Pact
and its adherents with which such government is at war.
(2) Each Government pledges itself to cooperate with the Govern-
ments signatory hereto and not to make a separate armistice or peace
with the enemies.
The foregoing declaration may be adhered to by other nations
which are, or which may be, rendering material assistance and con-
tributions in the struggle for victory over Hitlerism.
Done at Washington
January First, 1942
The United States of America
by Franklin D RoosEvelt
The United Kingdom of Great Britain
& Northern Ireland
by WINSTON S. CHURCHILL
[P.4.]
(1)
54T965 O - 43

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
[E.A.8.236]
2
On behalf of the Government
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
MAXIM LITVINOFF
Ambassador
National Government of the Republic of China
TBe Vung Soong
Minister for Foreign Affairs
The Commonwealth of Australia
by R. G. Casey.
The Kingdom of Belgium
by C R. v. STRAEN
Canada
by LEIGHTON McCARTHY
The Republic of Costa Rica
by Luis FernÁndez
The Republic of Cuba
by AuRELIo F. COnChESO.
Czechoslovak Republic
by V. S. Hurban
The Dominican Republic
by J M TRONCOsO
The Republic of El Salvador
by C A ALFARO-
The Kingdom of Greece
by CImon G. DiAMANTOPOULOs.
The Republic of Guatemala
by:—ENRIQUE LOPez HERRARTE.
La Republique d'Haíti
par Fernand DennIS.
The Republic of Honduras
by JULiÁn R. CÁcERES
India by
Girja Shankar Bajpai.
The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
by
Hugues Le Gallais
The Kingdom of the Netherlands
A. LOUDON
Signed on behalf of the Govt
of the Dominion of New Zealand
, by Frank Langstone

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.94)
3
[E.A.8.296]
The Republic of Nicaragua
by Lrón De BaylE
The Kingdom of Norway
by W. MUNThE MORGENSTIERNE
The Republic of Panamá
by Jaźn Guardia
The Republic of Poland
by Jan CIChANOWSKi
The Union of South Africa
by Ralph W. Close
The Kingdom of Yugoslavia
by
CONSANIN A. FO

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES, KNOWN AS THE ATLANTIC
CHARTER, BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND THE PRIME MINISTER OF THE UNITED
KINGDOM, AUGUST 14, 1941
Joint declaration of the President of the United States of America
and the Prime Minister, Mr. Churchill, representing His Majesty's
Government in the United Kingdom, being met together, deem it
right to make known certain common principles in .the national
policies of their respective countries on which they base their hopes
for a better future for the world.
First, their countries seek no aggrandizement, territorial or other;
Second, they desire to see no territorial changes that do not accord
with the freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned;
Third, they respect the right of all peoples to choose the form of
government under which they will live; and they wish to see sovereign
rights and self-government restored to those who have been forcibly
deprived of them;
Fourth, they will endeavor, with due respect for their existing obli-
gations, to further the enjoyment by all States, great or small, victor
or vanquished, of access, on equal terms, to the trade and to the raw
materials of the world which are needed for their economic prosperity;
Fifth, they desire to bring about the fullest collaboration between
all nations in the economic field with the object of securing, for all,
improved labor standards, economic advancement and social security;
Sixth, after the final destruction of the Nazi tyranny, they hope to
see established a peace which will afford to all nations the means of
dwelling in safety within their own boundaries, and which will afford
assurance that all the men in all the lands may live out their lives in
freedom from fear and want;
Seventh, such a peace should enable all men to traverse the high
seas and oceans without hindrance;
Eighth, they believe that all of the nations of the world, for realistic
as well as spiritual reasons must come to the abandonment of the use
of force. Since no future peace can be maintained if land, sea or air
armaments continue to be employed by nations which threaten, or
may threaten, aggression outside of their frontiers, they believe,
pending the establishment of a wider and permanent system of general
security, that the disarmament of such nations is essential. They
will likewise aid and enco rage all other practicable measures which
will lighten for peace-loving peoples the crushing burden of armaments.
(4)
O

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
4956
10012
In reply refer to
F 811.513294 Double/
7-1249
My dear Mr. Carroll:
The receipt is acknowladged of your letter dated
July 12, 1949 concerning the possibility of coneluding
a convention for the avoidance of international double
taxation with the present government of Japan in advanee
of a general Treaty of Peace with Japan.
While my initial reaction to this question would be
to say "positively no", I believe I should reserve my
position until the matter has been thoroughly disoussed
among qualified persons and agencies. In this connection,
I believe the concerned agenéles in Washington will have
the opportunity of discussing the matter with Dr. Shoup.
Head of the Tax Mission in Japan, when, as is expested
in the fairly near futures he returns to the United States
with his report and recommendations.
If you will bear ith me, then, I should like to
defer discussion of the matter of a tax convention with
Japan until we know what thought may have already been
devoted in Japan to/the problem.
Sincerely yours,
Frederick Livesey, Adviser
Office of
Financial and Development Poliey
Mr. Mitcholl B. Carroll,
Spegial Counsel, Tax Committee,
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.
ll1 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
8.S.
OFD:FN:GStrong/mjp
LT
CP
NA
8-25-49
SwD

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
.DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
10/3/49
OFD - Mr. Livesey
I would add the words "prior to
the consummation of a Treaty of Peace"
at the end of page 4.
crs
C. E. Snow
UFFICE OF
FINANCIAL & DEYELOPMENI POLICT
OCT. 4 1949.
DEPARTMENT BE STATE

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Liee
September 29, 1949
TO
: OFD - Mr. Livesey
THROUGH: L/P - Mr. Snow
FROM
SUBJECT:
Possibility of concluding a tax convention with
Japan.
FW 894.5123/7-1249
Reference is made to the letter of July 12 from
Mitchell B. Carroll regarding the possibility of concluding
a tax convention with Japan and to the memorandum of
September 8 addressed by you to FN and FN's memorandum of
September 15 to L/T.
The question as presented in Mr. Carroll's letter and
as paraphrased in your memorandum involves some rather
complex questions as to what constitutes a state with
competence to make treaties and the effect of a state of
war upon treaty relations.
There is actually no well-crystallized rule of inter-
national law which positively precludes the possibility of
a country in Japan's situation from concluding treaties,
depending perhaps on the character and substance of the
treaties. On the contrary, it would appear that one of the
pertinent rules is that the treaty-making capacity is
possessed by all states, the capacity to enter into treaties
being an "attribute of sovereignty". So far as L/T knows,
it has not been contended that Japan has lost its statehood;
it is true that the Japanese Government's powers of
administration and functioning are at present subject to
imposed limitations, but apparently Japan remains a state in
its broader sense. Any treaty of peace with or in respect
of Japan would. not create Japan's statehood but would lay
FW894.5
the base
DCR-UNIT
216827
298
OC1
Anal.
FILED
S
281949
hov.
C1.
+11
H

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the base for future relations between that state and other
states, returning to Japan, subject to treaty obligations,
the full capacity to govern itself as a member of the
community of nations.
It would hardly seem possible, therefore, to say with
assurance that the state of war which, in a technical sense,
continues to exist between the United States and Japan
precludes all possibility of concluding certain types of
treaties between the two countries. A tax convention deals,
of course, with technical and administrative matters and
such a treaty between the United States and Japan would be
almost exclusively of concern to them and of no direct
concern to other countries. In view of that fact, it is
reasonable to assume that if certain types of treaties could
be concluded between the two countries, a tax convention
would be one of those types.
Whether or not the United States would choose to con-
clude such a convention with Japan in the present situation
1s another question.
We understand that for some time the position has been
taken in the Department that every practicable step should
be taken to enable Japan gradually to resume its normal
intercourse with the rest of the world, and toward that end
the United States Government has supported proposals that
Japan be permitted forthwith to become a party to certain
international arrangements of a multilateral character, such
ag the Atlantic City international telecommunication con-
vention, which deals with technical problems involving
the allocation and use of radio frequencies and other tele-
communication matters. There is no doubt but that, so long
as it does not unduly complicate the situation vis-à-vis
relations between the United States and other countries,
the Department is inclined to encourage the 1dea that Japan
should be permitted to enter into treaty relations with
other nations, subject to such limitations as SCAP may deem
essential.
On the

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
On the other hand, there are probably those who would
point out that the United States is committed to the pledge
made in the Declaration by United Nations (55 Stat., pt. 2,
1600; Executive Agreement Series 236) reading as fo1lows:
"(2) Each Government pledges itself to cooperate
with the Governments signatory hereto and not to make
a separate armistice or peace with the enemies."
No doubt it would be pointed out that, in view of that
commitment, as well as the fact that this Government and
certain other governments have joint commitments with
respect to the occupation and control of Japanese affairs
pending the conclusion of a peace treaty with or in respest
of Japan, the United States should go slowly in taking aotion
which would be construed as establishing a separate peace
with Japan.
If a tax convention, or for that matter any formal
bilateral treaty, were concluded between the United States
and Japan it might be argued that, in effect, the United
States had recognized the end of the state of war between
the two countries.
All this involves policy determinations outside the
province of L/T. L/T is, however, inclined to believe that
the conclusion of a tax convention with Japan could give
rise to perplexing questions in view of the authority which
this Government and other governments exercise over Japanese
affairs. As you have intimated in your memorandum, there is
reason to believe that it might be impolitio to let the
impression gain headway that we were "imposing a tax treaty
on Japan under present ciroumstances". The attitude of
the Treasury Department, as you point out, is another factor.
Even, therefore, if we assume that there is no rule of
international law that precludes the possibility of con-
cluding such a convention with Japan, consideration will
need to be given to the question whether it would be
inexpedient and impractical to complieate the international
situation by entering into such a convention. The Department
need not,

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
need not, of course, enter into a disoussion of these
matters in replying to Mr. Carroll's letter. You may wish
to include in the reply statements along the following lines:
"I have consulted with interested offiees of
the Department regarding this matter. Apparently
there is no fixed rule of international law that
would make it impossible for the United States to
conolude a tax convention with Japan. Under exist-
ing circumstances, however, it is believed to be
highly unlikely that this Government would consider
it practicable to undertake the conclusion with
Japan of a tax convention."
eas
08
L:L/T:WVWhittington:p1
L/P

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
Office MeMorAndUm · UNITED STAtES GOVEAI
To : FN - Mr. Doherty
DATE: September
subject: Is is possible to negotiate a tax treaty with Japan before
a peace treaty
I do not like the draft prepared for my signature as a
reply to the July 12 letter of Mitchell B. Carroll, Special
Counsel, Tax Committee, National Foreign Trade Council, which
reads as follows:
"The question has been raised as to whether it is
possible to conclude a convention for the avoidance of
international double taxation with the present government
of Japan, before the Treaty of Peace is concluded. I
would appreciate your advising me whether this can be
done."
This letter does not ask the Department to review all
894.5123/7-1249
questions of policy and attitude that might stand in the way
of negotiating a tax treaty with Japan before advising
Mr. Carroll whether it is possible for the United States to.
negotiate a treaty with a country legally at war with the
United States and having a government with the status that
the present Government of Japan has, before c∞ncl uding a
peace treaty with such country. The more reasonable assumption
is that prior to committing himaelf or the Tax Committee to
an elaborate study of the situation, Mr. Carroll has passed
on the first preliminary question that would be raised, which
is a question within the jurisdiction of the Department of
State and properly referable to it: namely, if I may suggost
a paraphrase:
"Aside from all questions of policy, does the legal
fact that the United States is at war with Japan, or
does any fact in the special relations of the Government
of the United States with the present Government of Japan,
216826
preclude all possibility of the United States concluding
a tax treaty with the present Government of Japn before
the United States concludes a peace treaty with Japan."
Tax Committee
If that preliminary question is answered, the NFTC/can
decide whether it wishes to submit further inquiries and
suggestions. The Department doesn't have to cona der them all
before it answers the question.
on
C
S
69
Cat.
Dist.
H

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
On grounds of tax treaty policy I would be strongly oppe
to imposing a tax treaty on Japan under present ciroumstanoos,
I doubt 1t would be possible to get the Treasury to agree to 
so. The Department is committed to seek liberalising United
States tax legislation in connection with our Point Iv program,
to negotiate tax treaties with Latin American countries tied in
with that program and our other economic treaty programs. Brasil
Colombia, Cuba, all publicly invited, lined up waiting on our
doorstep to negotiate tax treaties with us but we are solidly
frozen not able to talk to them on account of Treasury indecisions
as to policy. Ten or twelve tax treaties will be before the
Senate awaiting action next January. We don't want to take on
a tax treaty with Japan with priority to our long waiting list
with other countries.
Mr. Carroll is now in Germany looking over tax matters there
for the NFTC. There is no special hurry to answer him.
Ordinarily he talks wi th me by telephone every week or two
reviewing the tax treaty situation and I need only tell him that
the Japan matter is stalled in the Department's machinery.
However, it would be nice if some qualified person or persons
could let me have a little memorandum which might run to the
effect that while the circumstances of the present relations
between the United States and Japan may not theoretically
preclude all possibility of negotiating a tax treaty with that
country, the circumstances may be regarded as having that
practical effect. I could draft a brief letter of this kind
to Mr. Carroll but would need the phrases to be supplied from
the legal side, if I am right in supposing that the status of
war would justify such a reply independently of te more
localized complications of our governmental relations with
Japan.
OFD:FLivesey:bmm

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.91)
00112194
In reply refer to
OFD Bliveisse le/
2-1849
My dear Mr. Carroll:
The Department has given careful considoration to
your letter of July 12, 1949, inquiring as to the pos-
894.5123
sibility of concluding a tax treaty with the present
Governnent of Japan before a Peace Treaty is made with
Japan.
Apparently there is no fixed mule of international
law that would make i. impossible for the United States
to conclude & tax convention with Japan. Under existing
circumstances, however, it is believed to be highly
to un ertake the conclusi in witn Jupan of a tax convontion
I
prior to the consumatlon of a Treaty of Peace.
1249
Sincerely yours,
For lhe Secrotary of State:
子
Dn
mys
Froderick Livesoy, Adviser
A
Office of
Financlal and Development Policy
894.5123
Mr. Mitchell B. Carroll,
Special Co.nsel, Tax Committee,
Na:: onal Forci n Trade Council, Inc.,
ll1 Broadway,
Now York GamNew York
OFD:FL1vesey:omm 10/10/49
EN
NA
Approved by L/T - Mr. Whittingoyn
L/E - Mr. Snow
(Memo of Sept. 29)I

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
MMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEBRAPH BRANCH
REPRODUCTION OF ARMY MESSAGE TO S
INCOMING TELEGRAM
AUG11 1949
TOP SECRET
1-B
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Action: FE
AUG 11 1949
info:
ss
DIRECTOR
SCPFA
Department of State
E
FROM: SCAP TokyC J2pan
a
Stat
OLI
TO:
Secretary of State
CFD
DCR
NO:
C 5.729, August 1
FE
Action OfriceSy
Serial Nunber 3.
Name of Ofrind
L
FRON SHOUP FIR WEST
Direction to DC/R
i. Following ver:ative decisions have been
reached by our tax nissien. These decisions cover
cnly part of the field. Later radios will give further
894.5123/8-149
decisione
2. Excess pror'its tax should be repealed.
Vigorous er forcement of corporation tax can make up
loss in revenue.
3. Personal income tax should be kept as
mainstay of system but; personal exemptions shouid be
raised somewhat and some rates decreased to induce
better compliance and enforcement. Some revenue loss
must be sustained temporarily to break present vicious
circle of &rhitrary reassessment because tax official
knows taxpayer 1s nct fi!ing true income and taxpayer
files falte return ef income because he knows tax
official vill reassess anyway.
T
Land and house tax should be strengthened.
C
A/FLH
5. Loca! inances in general must be strengthoned
if present loca: autonomy program is to be effective,
as we agree 1: ahould be. Present system of distribution
tax and sutsidies must to overhauled, and some simpler
equalizaticn type of grant introduced.
6. Rates of
LCR-OFD/UNIT
AnaL
20
Rev.
CT28
FILED
1-1
Cat.
Dist.
1949
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE-REIORNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
10-52014-1

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-2- #C 51729, August 1, from SCAP Tokyo, Japan
6. Rates of personal income tax should be put
at levels where the moderately well to do will have
incentive to invest and work for top executive posts
but on the extremely wealthy the tax rates should be
kept high to avoid dangerous concentration of economic
power in hands of a few persons. An excellent
alternative to these high top rates is a supplementary
Low rate annual tax on net personal fortune. This
tax has been used successfully for many years by
Switzerland. We may merely suggest this alternative
to Japanese people, leaving this decision to them.
7. Revaluatlon of corporate assets should be
carried throurch, but under carefully drawn restrictions
which we are now formulating.
8. Two revenue programs w1ll be formulated.
One will provide for substantially same total central
and local revenue as at present. The other will
indicate how tax reducticn should be allocated if
aventa indicate thas any reduction is desirable.
9. Bowen, Cohen, and Surrey departed for
United States Wednesday. All next week Hatfield,
Vickery, Warren and I shall be 1n hotel near Nikko reaching
final declsions on all points and drafting report.
Hatfield Leaves for United States August i7th. Warren
and I leave August ?7th or perhaps earlier. Report will
be made puolic about August 25th. Vickery will stay on
for a week or two into September to help get under way
plans for implementing the report.
10. Success of the proposed tax reform depends
basically on continuation of marked improvement 1n
Japanese tax adninistration that has been achieved under
ndministrative reforms designed by ESs, Internal Revenue
Division, Harold Moss. These reforms have included (A)
establishment of professional vertically controlled tax
adminiatracion headed by tax administration agency an
externa! Bureau of Ministry of Finance separated from all
nor-tax functions; (B) creation of national tax inspectors
to uncover fraud and national tax investigators for
non-frauc
TOP SECRET

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-3- #C 51729, August 1, from SCAP Tokyo, Japan
non-fraud investigation; (c) creation of national
tax supervisors who maintain surveillance over regional
and other national tax offices and report to direotor
tax administration agency; (D) national tax personal
investigators; (E) special tax procurators. On SCAP
side, several experienced tax and monopoly revenue
technicians have been brought to Japan, most of them
recruited on loan basis from United States Treasury
and selected state and local governments. Some were
assigned to tax surveillance positions with Eighth
Army. Our mission strongly supports these important
changes and believes them largely responsible for fact
that collections last year exceeded budget goal by 35
billion and collections as of July JOth of this year are
75 per cent ahead of same date last year.
TOP SECRET

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
97,lst floor,
ORTHFAST ASIAN AFFA
Leighton Hill
1949
Hongkong
DEPARTMENT OF STA
RferdtoNA
Far East Committee in Washington D. C.
Washington,.S.A.
SF
19494
Sir:
Re improper re-taxation
I wish to draw your kind attention to the effect that
Japanese tax official imposed me income tax for 1947 repeatedly
in spit of having been paid. I have to submit before you
the following reasons:-
I had been doing undertaking in 22 3-Chome Kitahame,
Higashi-ku Osaka, Japan,in the way of publication . There
were tnree kinds of magazines issued during that time namely
"Yellow Gold", "Chuka Paaku" and "Yellow River". The first two
magazines were published in Japanese language while the last
one in Chinese. Due to shortage on paper, it was afterward
5
stopped from rationing. All fees, such as advertising, sub
123/9-249
scription, could not be colleoted. Furthermore, all my
properties had been robbed and the undertaking was forced
to suspend. Simultaneously, the trading of marine produot
and preserved stuff, due to the uncareful purchase of my
employees, most of the stuff were deteriorated and unwhole-
some whioh had finally caused a great detriment to my capital.
All this failure of my business were in the year 1947.
Sometime in 1947, I was informed by Osaka Revenue Bureau
of Japanese Government at the East Prefecture that my taxation
for that year was over ¥360,000.00 which of course, I could
not agree and immediately I had to submit my opposition.
After this submitting of my opposition, the Chinese Chamber
of Commerce in Osaka had a conference with you in regard 
to this matter. Then I was told to submit my applie tLon
for the proper amount to be taxed; I had afterward pai
8
more than ¥6,000.- out of my profit of T35,000.- from my
magazine business.
S
(continued on next sheet)
1111
H
1952

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
(continued)
I had duly liquidated after my failure in trading and
returned to Hongkong. I was again informed by the Japamese
tax officer that I must pay over ¥1s,000,000.- whioh, even-
taally, I disagroed. I had requested Mr. Ku Giok Seng to be
my liquidator to file an apposition to the Japanese tax
collector, but it was refused.
As I had already left Japan for Hongkong and did not
engaged any business, moreover, all my properties were lost,
it will be very unreasonable to impose heavy tax on one who
was already out of his business field. All the above-mentioned
facts can easily be traced out from"Asahi Nepaper of Japan" ant
and "Daily News" as well as other publishers so as to regulate for
tax payer for your reference.
Hence, I respectfully appeal to your Supreme Headquarters
for sound judgement. Kindly advise the Japanese tax oolleotor
to withdraw his order of my retaxation ao as to aympathize
the diffioulty which had confronted me.
I have the honour to be,
Your obedient servant,
San Ki So
(So San Ki)

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
DC/R
4U0971
OFD
THE PORSSON SERVICE
SP
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MN
1944
United States Political Adviser
804 212020-2543
for Japan
Tokyo, October 25, 1949.
NIT
REC D
No 747
OCT
e/p
AFFAMRS
noted
RESTRICTEL
1945
894.5123/10-2549
STATE
Subjeet.
Sigeestlons Concerning Taxation of Foreign Nationals
Prepered by American Chamber of Commerce in Japan.
The Act n Political Adv: ser has the honor to refer to this
isir s aespat no 06 dated October 10. 1949. entitled Issuance
? Re ort cn Jupanese Taxution by the Shoup Mission," and to make
Peifie refereree to the section in that despatch regarding the re-
t r  forein bucinees men to the Shoup tax recommendations.
There is now encicsed a copy of a memorandum dated October 4,
49 entitled "Suggestions Concerning Taxation of Foreign Nationals,"
e cne of which was handed on that date by Mr. Paul AURELL,
Pr=  ent ef the Americun Chamber of Commerce in Japan, Tokyo. to
Finance Lintster Hayate IkkDA The latter. together with five other
crficials frem the Finance Ministry. were entertained at a dinner
g ven y  Aurell and nembers of the Chanber's taxation committee
appointed to study the Shoup recormendations which effect foreign
business men Alsc enclosed is a copy of the proposed law. mentioned
in the last sentence of Mr Aurell's memorandum, which would, if
approved by the Diet permit foreign business men to deduct from taxa-
Lie cone a sur. ct to exceed Yen 2 000. 000 equal to $5, 555.56, as
expend:ture for "support" of their necessary personal establishments
in Japan
According to a member of the Chamber's taxation committee,
3×F=
Finance Linister Ikeda indicated that Japanese tax officials had been
consiicrin epeciel tax legislation designed to exempt foreigners
fron certair taxes or portions thereof. in order to encourage foreign
XR
investnert in Japan
894.04
migs
NOV 1V
FILED
Copy of nemorandum dated October 4, 1949,
entitled "Suggestions Concerning Taxation
1949
of Forei.n Nutionals",
2/ Copy of Draft of Legislation.
FAP
Parohment mat to the Department
501.2
ChBoehringer:pf
RESTRICTED
ACTION-COI
RETURN TO DCR FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
173123

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 741
dated October 25, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject Sug-
RESTRICTED
gestions Concerning Taxation of For
eign Nationals Prepared by American
Chamber of Commerce in Japan"
(COPY)
THE ALERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN JAPAN
TOKYO
October 4, 1949
Suggestions Concerning Taxation of Foreign Nationals:
Foreign nationals residing in Japan should pay their fair share
of the cost of the Japanese government.
We believe, however, that some consideration should be given by
the Japanese government. in preparing a permanent tax program, to
the results which will occur if proposed Japanese taxes are imposed
in full upon foreign businessmen.
It is believed that all foreign businessmen in Japan will pay
between 50% and 60% combined income and inhabitant taxes. on their
incomes if proposed taxes are levied. These taxes are so high that
we forecast that the following will result:
First, foreign investment in Japan will be greatly discouraged.
Foreign investors will invest only if they can send observers to
observe the use of their money, instructors to instruct how to operate
their machines, and technicians to insure the use of their money in
the most modern method. If the pay of these foreign observers, in-
structors and technicians 1s to be taxed between 50% and 60%, as 1t
will be, it will cost so much money to send them to Japan that they
will not be sent, and thus foreign investment will be discouraged.
Second, foreign trade of Japan will be discouraged. Imposition
of proposed taxes will mean that the businessmen engaged in foreig
trade must double their salaries or double their profits if their
standard of living is to be maintained. This is not possible. Yet
the foreign businessmen now in Japan are accounting for much of
Japan's foreign trade, Their presence should be encouraged and not.
discouraged.
Third, service agencies now indispensable to foreign trade and
fcreign investment will be discouraged. A foreign bank must nearly
double the pay of its foreign employees if it makes up only the
difference between Japanese and, for example, United States taxes.
Such employees will not remain in Japan if it is not more attrac-
tive. financially, to be here than at home. Thus, proposed taxes
will discourage the foreign banks, insurance agencies and steam-
ship lines so indispensable to Japanese business today.
Foreign businessmen,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. l to
Tokyo's Despatfh No. 741,
October 25, 1949.
-.2-
Foreign businessmen, who are usually here for only a few years,
have the problem of maintaining establishments at home, arranging
for insurance, retirement and education of children, and of pro-
viding for occasional residences at home. The proposed taxes will
deprive them of the opportunity to meet such problams.
It is apparent that some consideration must be given to the
businessman who is here to aid in Japan's recovery. A possible
solution is to provide by law:
That foreign nationals actively contributing to Japan's economic
recovery be entitled to deduct from their gross incomes, with the
epproval in each case of the Winister of Finance, their actual
expenses of 1iving in Japan, not to exceed ¥2, 000, 000.00.
A araft of appropriate legislation is enclosed.
/s/
PAUL W. AURELL
President
RESTRICTED

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.. 2 to Despatch No. 741
dated October 25, 1949 from the
United States Political Aaviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject Sug-
gestions Concerning Taxation of
RESTRICTED
Foreign Nationals Prepared by
American Chamber of Commerce in
Japan",
(COFY)
DRAFT OF LEGISLATION
ARTICLE I.
This Law is enacted to encourage foreign investment, the develop-
ment of the international trsde of Japan and the development of the
tourist travel of foreign nationals within Japan, by providing for
allowances for taxation purposes of certain expenses of foreign
nationals residing iu Japan for the purpose of the furtherance of
such programs.
ARTICLE II
A persou. who shall establish to the satisfaction of the
Mimister of Finanee the facts that he is a foreign national lawfully
in Japan and that he is actively engaged in a trade, profession or
enterprise which shall result in the creation of international trade,
shell positively sia in Japanese economic rehabilitation, or shall
provide a sourcs of foreign exchange for Japan, shall be entitled
to deduct from the gross income of such trade, profession or enter-
prise in computing his net income for all purposes of taxation,
such emount as he may establish to the satisfaction of the Minister
of Finarce as having been expended by him during a taxable year in
the support of his necessary personal establishment in Japan.
ARTICLE III
No deduction permitted by Article II above shall be allowable
during any taxable year in excess of ¥2, 000, 000.00.
ARTICLE IV.
This Law shali become effective January 1, 1950.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
STATES OF AMERICA
894.5123/11-1749
United States Political Adviser
19
for Japan
REC'D
NOV 25
Tóloyd November 17, 1949.
1r acte
401310
ACTICN
No. 803
mnkHa.
1-1945
7
NC/R
RESTRICTED
INFO
FR
NA-W
DCR
XXRE
fill
Subject: Revised Suggestions Concerning Taxation of
ITP
Foreign Nationals in Japan.
L
FE
894.5123/11-1749
PD
PER
CLI
KX
TREAS
The Actins Political Aiviser has the honor to
COM
refer to this Lission's despatch no. 74l dated Ooto-
FRB
ber 25, l949, entitled "Suggestions Conoerning Taxa-
tion of Foreign Nationals Prepared by American Cham-
C
ber of Commerce in Japan".
There is now enclosed a copy of a letter dated
November 1, 1949, sent to the Japanese Finance Minia-
ter by the members of the Taxation Committee of the
American Chtmber, stating that at a meeting of seven
members of t Chaaber, together with representatives
from the British and Jutch Chambers, it was deoided
to amend the American Chamber's previous suggestions
for legislation providing for tax exemption in Japan
for foreign nationals. A copy of the original sug-
gested draft law was enclosed with the referenoe des-
patoh; Article III of that draft read as follows:
"No deduction permittea by Artiole II above
shall be allowable during any taxable year
in excess of Yen 2,000.000.00".
The proposed revision of this Artiole follows:
"No aeduction permitted by Article II above
shall be allowable during any taxable year in
excess of seventy per cent (70%) of the
gross incoxe of any taxpayer, including any
suoh deduction".
As explained in the Taxation Co mittee's letter,
"this change has been made because many foreign nation-
als receive a part of their income in foreign ourrenoy,
and we believe it ecuitatle to measure these inoome
taxes,
RESTRICTED
0EC2 1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 803,
Nowamber 17, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-3-
According to kr. Aitchison, no reply had been
received, as of Noveuter 17, from the Finance Ninis-
try in response to the chamber's letter dated Novem-
ber 1. Asked on that cate as to the position taken
by the Internal Rovenue Division, Economic and Scien-
tific Section, General Headyuarters, with respeot to
the Chamber's reco uaenaations for tax exemption made
to the Finance Minister, Ir. Aitchison stated to an
officer of this Nission that, in his opinion, the Inter-
nal Revenue Division wes following a "hands-off" polioy
with respect to the recc aen ations.
Asked on Novemuer 1? to conmuent on N'r. Aitchison's
interpretation of the position taken by the Internal
Revenue Division Mr. Henry SAVELL, Deputy Chief of that
Division, stated to this Nission's officer thet Mr. Ait-
chison's viewpoint was not altogether correct. Lr. Sha-
vell explained that rinal approval of any plan for exempt-
ing foreigners from Juyanese taxation rests with the
Internal Revenue Division. He added, however, that in
principle the Diviaion wouid be prepared to give sympa-
thetic consideretion to any plan for tax exemption mutu-
ally satisfactory to tho arter and to the Finance
Ministry.
Enclosure:
copy of lotter dete. rovealer 1, 1949,
sent to Finance Yinic ter by
Taxation Joumaittee meri can
Chamber of Courerce ir Japan.
Parchment Yat to the Dpertent
501.2
CHBoehringer:keb
RESTRICTED

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatoh o
November 17, 1949 fromthe
ted States Political aviser to
RESTRICTED
Japan, Dkyo, on the subjoei 
vised Sugestions Concerniug Ta
ation of Foreign Nationels Is
Japan".
(COPY)
1 vember 1949.
To the Finance Minister
Attention. Mr. Ishizaki
At a meeting composed of seven members of the Amer-
ican Chamber of Comierce. three members of the British
Association and two members of the Dutch Association in
Japan held tcJay. it wss decided to amend our previous
draft of legislation as follows:
Article III (quete)
"No deduction permitted by Article II above shall
be allowable during any taxable year in exoess of seventy
percent (7o%) of the rsss income of any taxpayer,
including any sucn deducticn".
A revised copy of our proposed legislution 1s
attached. This chunge hus been made becaise many for-
eign nationals receive a part of their incowe in for-
eign ourrency, anu we believe it equitable to measure
these incone taxes. aituough payatle in yen, in the
same ourrency as that in which the income is earned.
This is most effectively mplemented by making the
deduction for the sup: rt of one's personal establish-
ment a percentage of in'ome rather than a fixed amount
wiich ill not recog.lize possible fluctuatione in
excnange ae does this regent recommendation.
In regard to cost of living in Japan for foreign
nationala, we Lave already si ven you many facte. A one
of our mambars permanently resident in Japan stated
today, the cost of living in Japan is at least twioe
as great us it is in most of our reapective homelands.
The cost of truder hotels is well establiahed and ay
well be used by the Iinistry of Finanoe us a fair gen-
eral guide for basic living consisting cuiy of food and
shhelter for single persons or couples. This figure for
a married couple with no cnildren varies from a minimum
of 435.00 to & maxi.un of 750.00 per onth. It must
be emphasized that this is for only food and shelter,
and for foreign residents of the class tuat can qualify
under Artiole II for our propcsed exemption, normal
living expenses include tie following:
1. Hotel expenses or home operating expenses
which inolude food and shelter
2.
Household furnishings (if not living in a
hotel)
3. Clothing
RESTRICTED

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl osure to Tokyo's
Dospatch No. 803.
Novemter 17, 1949.
RESTRICTED
To the Finance Minister - Page 2
3. Clothing
40
Servants
5.
Sundries and hcuschold supplies including
laundry. utilities. etc.
6..
Traneportat ie. usually autcrobile
7.
Modical end hospital expenses
8.
Donations
9.
Education of cnilaren in Japan or abroad
10.
Recreation
11.
Transporta'ion en on l-ave to the homeland
12.
Life inaurance premi im
13.
Reasenable savina for retirement
The ccst te a foreigrer ef Lis residenoe in Japan
depends purtly upcn hi, n income and partly upon the
ceneral ataniard of ivin to wntoh he is accustomed,
and a revies er li:ins cuuts in Jat. of other nationals
us compured with their homeland doss ot show as sreat
a disparity in many instances s for our menbers (Ameri-
can nationals). For x le a Chinese or a Korean
residing in Japn may ll lie upon a sum much amal-
ler than the avurae Jupunese. on the other hand, a
British su jec: ox an rican citizen may be aocus-
tomed to a mu h high r stundard of living whioh would
mean tnat he woul1 spen lure suns upon his peraonal
establisiment. Likewis, a an with a large Inoome
usually will tave a realr living expense than a man
with a modest incol..e.
He estimute tat t average werican clork would
probably receive betvn 4 and 5,000 yearly in
Japan. He would srend uii cr nuarly all. of this in
modest living in Japan e srtiate that tne Amerioan
businesgman whe livas in sdeet style (coupared with
living conditions in th: Uaitei Stat es) would spend
between 1o,co and ,annually upon his neces-
sary personal cxpenses reeulting fron his business in
Japan. He cannct live with his family in any degree
of substantial comfort for much less money. Conse-
quently, the iower in oip group would require the full
seventy percent exemption s the ince inoreases the
amount for living wcild alsc inorease, but would not
represont so large a porcentage cf gross incomo. In
all cases, of course. the amount would have to be suh-
stantiatod to the satiafaction of the Japanese Taxation
Dopartment as provided in Article II:
We are advised ty cur friends, the British Trade
Association and the Netherlands Trade Aasociation, that
the living expanses of their nationals in Japan are
somowhat loser. For your information, the Netherlands
Government ullows its busine smen in Japan a very limited
personal
RESTRICTED

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.88)
Englosure to Tokyo s
Despátah No. 303,
November 17, 1949.
RESTRICTED
To the Finance  inister - Pag? 3
personal livins allowance. The Dutoh find that this oum
Is barely adeyuute. I iy are taxed at all upon this
slender alic-ance, they will be unable to pay a tax and
remain in Japai. Thns. usinees with the Netherlands
East Indies wil be mest sericusly harmed.
The Pritisn  bavise are  a difficult position,
for they are allcwed rly E? a day for living and office
expenses. Tuis #l9.t0 per diem allowance is barely ade-
quate when one consid-re the cost of cables, taxis, office
rent and other cost pal tine from their Japanese busi-
ness. Ipotin o saxs upen nem lik lee would tend
to repel them u apan : ther the British nor the
Dutch wovld e alee?y weir respeetive governments
to bring any funes tr as: wit. whioh to pay taxes.
He would ther t tat the proposed
legislstion, i s riris ed Dutct groupe agree
with us wii r al  and ill per lt them to remain
in Japan ba
tring seesion of the
Diet.
our rn r etin a portion of tho
foreign natm s
"as in Japen from taxes
merely puts ti iea a roxisetely the same besis
as he wule    rad  feel thie ia the
mininan ne eesar
forein investment re
quirine ferei e
un! axeoutives to gone to
Japan.
He el rpirit f underatanding
between the rIir. Tkeda) and thoee of
us wlo are wern  t rte of an auuitablo tax
atructure as arre os  ti nale uuo aro con-
tributing to 
rerovery of Japan.
e rft averable considera
tionev
:ti: m.ich is stated briefly,
that t
i in Jaraf uct to exceed
seventy perfrl be ranted 
an allwtle  e brore ply
ing the effective Toras L shdules and that in
come tazes d
FferIve until after one
ear of r   
TAXATION
RESTRICTED

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure tb Tokyo's
Despatch No. 803.
November 17, 1949.
RESTRICTED
To the Finance L.inister - Page 4
TAXATION CONMITTEE
THE AL ERICAN CHANBER OF COLMERCE
IN JAPAN
Bruce Aitchison
Chairman
Frank H. Ale
Taul W. Aurell
co:
British Traue Association
Netherlands Trade Association
RESTRICTED

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 803,
November 17, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-5-
DRAFT OF LEGISLATION
ARTICLE I.
This law is enaoted to encourage foreign invest-
ment, the development of the international trade of
Japan and the development of the tourist travel of
foreign nationals within Japan, by providing for allow-
ances for taxation purposes of certain expenses of for-
eign nationals residing in Japan for the purpose of
the furtherance of such programs.
ARTICLE II.
A person, who shall establisll to the satisfaction
of the Minister of Finance the facts that he is a for-
eign national lawfully in Japan and that he is actively
engaged in a trade, profession or enterprise whioh
shall result in the creation of international trade,
shall positively aid in Japanese economio rehabilita-
tion, or shall provide a source of foreign exohanga
for Japan, shall be entitled to aeduct from the gross
inoome of such trade, profession or enterprise, in com-
puting his net insone for all purposes of taxation, such
amount as he may establish to the satisfeotion of the
Minietor of Finance as having been expended by nim auring
a taxable year in the support of his neoessary personal
establishment.
ARTICLE III.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
pciosure to Tokyc's
Jespatoh No 803,
November 17, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-6-
ARTICLE III.
No deduction permitted by Article II above shall
be allowable aurins any taxable year in excess of
seventy percent (7o%) of the gross income of any tax-
payer, including any such deduction.
ARTICLE IV.
This law snall hecome effeotive January 1, 1950.
RESTRICT

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.89)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
1949
NORTRE
1499
Action Ta on Keastum
WPAPTMENT OF STATE
LEGAL ADVISER
LIOM:
USFOLAD, Tokyo.
12/21/49
DEC15 194
De of
UNCLASSIFIED
ceiling:
December 13 29.9.
S01NA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
'c. Dec. 12, 1949
1
hst..
Wechington.
A-349, December 9, 1949.
894.5123/12-949
1929, ly Publio Inaorsbion
Fellowing neve leon reloaoa
 Conmard, Tokyo, under Fende
ing Courte Inorcacingly Seve  s agers:"
"Japan'a ceurte re desline mre severely with violators
of bost and cconomte lawsy
at pade ty the Supreme Coust
to Suap's Legel Sectaon  to
con
"The Suprome Court sis shat She Japaneve government
ECA
collected 152, 500, C00 yon i. inss mnd conficcntions durins
J561
September, end that ftos tstating  ore then 200, 000,000
yen were saposed in desisiome sien became Pinel during the
morth. The latter rep eresbed n  pease of appropiestelly
68,000,000 yen over fines lovied in ngust.
"0f the fines dape  op . S6,000,000 yen w
against violatore of sas ls, en mseno of 45,500,000 
over August tex fines, end ls,00o,c00 egaiact violators er
economie laws, an increare of 23,50o, 000 yon cver the
LIVISON
August rigure.
"Concerning the 152,500, 000 yen c01locted, 101,500,000
yen was from black-merketcers and other violators of scone.
mic laws, 4, c00,000 yen frem violators of lex lava, and
approximately 22, 500, 000 yon worth of properey through cor
fiscation and seguestration "
DEC 27 194C
SEBATD
501.2/370.3
WDiehl:lee
H
UNCLASSIFIED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
