894.6347 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Precious Metals And Precious Stones., Japan, Radium., June 6, 1946 (File 1526)
ID: 894.6347-1526   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6347-mines-mining-concessions-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
WENDELL L. WILLKIE 1892-1944
CARL M. OWEN
HAROLD OTIS
H. BARTOW FARR
HAROLD J. GALLAGHER
CHARLES M. WALTON, JR.
LESLIE CRAVEN
CLAUDE M. TERRELL
WILLIAM FITZ GIBBON
ROBERT C. HARDY
LOUIS F. CARROLL
THOMAS N. TARLEAU
MARK F. HUGHES
EDWARD MCGARVEY
JAMES E. CARROLL
WALTER H. BROWN, JR.

WILLKIE OWEN OTIS FARR &amp; GALLAGHER
15 BROAD STREET
NEW YORK 5

TEL. HANOVER 2-3100
CABLE ADDRESS "CONVEYANCE"

NATHAN L. MILLER
COUNSEL

June 6, 1946.

ack by Tom Fritz
894.6347/6-646

Department of State
Foreign Service Administration
Washington
D.C.

Dear Sirs:

Our clients, Ipekdjian Brothers, whose offices in New York City are at 580 Fifth Avenue, and who are engaged in the import and export of diamonds, have submitted to us the following situation, in which we believe the intervention of the State Department would be extremely helpful.

Before Pearl Harbor, Ipekdjian Brothers were the owners of a substantial stock of diamonds in the Netherlands Indies. At the time of the Japanese invasion, they made efforts to have these diamonds sent to New York, but did not succeed in doing so in time.

They have recently learned that a very substantial stock of diamonds has been found in Japan by our Occupation Forces — stock which has been identified as originating in the Netherlands Indies and which, therefore, was presumably shipped by the Japanese invaders from the Netherlands Indies to Japan.

We would very much appreciate it if you would let us know exactly which agency within the Department, or in Japan, is handling this matter, so that we may submit full particulars and, perhaps, have the diamonds belonging to our clients identified in the stock now existing in Japan.

This presupposes that the stock found in Japan has been inventoried in some way, and we would also appreciate hearing from you where we can obtain some detailed information as to the contents of this stock.

Will you please address your reply to the attention of the undersigned?

Very truly yours,
Simon J. Nusbaum

SJN/jma

894.6347/6-646
CS/H

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Reference case of Ipekdjian Brothers

The Department of State has considered your communication in regard to certain property interest abroad. Additional information, concerning the following items checked below, is essential to investigation and full reply. Due to personnel shortage and the volume of similar inquiries, it is not possible to make individual acknowledgments. Compliance with the request will expedite action on your behalf.

1. ☑ Citizenship of interested parties:
(a) If native born American, the date and place of birth.
(b) If naturalized American, the date, place and certificate number of naturalization.

2. ☐ Description of property, real or personal:
(a) Exact location, means of identification, value.
(b) Evidence of title.
(c) Names of co-owners, stating percentage of interest, nationality and domicile.
(d) Date and manner acquired.
(e) Information available as to possible enemy seizure.

3. ☐ Bank deposits:
(a) Name and address of bank in which deposit or securities were held.
(b) Amount or par value of such deposits.
(c) Number, key or symbol identifying the account.
(d) Information available as to possible enemy seizure.

4. ☐ Estates:
(a) Name, nationality and last known address of decedent.
(b) Did decedent leave a will? Has will been probated? If possible submit date, place and proof of death.
(c) What steps have been taken toward the administration of the estate?
(d) Give names, nationalities and places of residence of all known beneficiaries.
(e) Full description of properties included in the estate, giving location and approximate value.
(f) Information available as to possible enemy seizure.

5. ☐ Names of attorney or other persons abroad who might be of assistance in locating and identifying property.

6. ☑ Nature and extent of non-American interest in Ipekdjian Brothers.

Information submitted in compliance with the above is required in quadruplicate for Germany and in duplicate for all other countries.

FW 844.6247/6-645
IPEKDJIAN BROTHERS
