894.5045 Economic Matters., Labor., Japan, Strikes And Lockouts., December 3, 1946 - July 21, 1949 (File 1743)
ID: 894.5045-1743   Pages: 53   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5045-economic-matters-labor-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
878
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
PLAIN
Charge to
DEC4 1946
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
596
FOUPTH
FOR THE POLITICAL ADVISOR
4.5045/12-346
Following 1s Moscow's 4307 DEC 3 to DEPT repeated
for your info.
894.5045/12-346
(Code Room: Please repeat to Tokyo Moscow's
4307 DEC 3 to DEPT)
Gcheson
Acting
(F3S
DC/
/€S/
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
A
11K
12-3×6
EE:AnDavis:hrs
12/4/46

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
450
LA
ACÉEBARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAP
DC/R
UB
EUR
DEPARIOF STATE
FRO
PR
DC/L
OCD
MAR 5 1947
6
LO: DO..
CIG
DATD February 26, 1947
ESP
FC
Mer. 4, 1947
REC
1x31
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
ESSAG
Suoretary of State
AGE CENTER
OFFICE OF
5
POLI
3
Lasnin, ton
ICY
W
A-400, February 20, 1247
6
Followir uestlons ard answers ia regand to
0
threate ed lahor strike 1: Je pe.. oxc!:auged Ir Nouse
of Commons cn February 24, 1347:
894.5045/2
r. Jc. vator (Tabor .. for orwi clr) us ad
the Socrotary of State for Forein Alfairs if the
ordor  lver. Ly lonerel acarthur ic tiie Japa uae trade
unio. loadors un Sist January I st, to abanto:. thuir
:touded umeral stri:o, was discvssed by tho Allled
Cou.cil for Ja an; srd whot or there was uranimous
a roeme..t tat it siould bu iven.
r. ayeev (arliwmu tary  cer-Socretar: of
-2647
CH
Stete for Fo riatrs, r. U der the
turns of u dirsotive issuad to tho Su ro o Conamer.der
for tho Ailied ovors  tno bas's o a voliey decislon
by tho tar waster Co aissio, tho cocu atios authori-
tjos in Jana are att orised to  ro ivit strikus who
they corsider ti st thoy would directly orejudice t:e
objectivos cr dous cf tie vccu atior.."
ir. atr.: "Ts tho no.. o tluma. awaro that a
rou, of trade union loaders co: cor. eu ref usus co. so.t,
ai d have  ow usted ior a: : vusti atio: inte te lahour
cor ditiors w ion lod to te t reat cf  o cral stri.e,
and will is . ajusty 's ovor ot furtror tiat i vosti
"atjor.?"
ir. Mayhev: "i think that is a cifrerent mattor."
王
r. Johm Lowls (Jabor
FILED
so. tutiors of any lnd made by iis ajusty's covormerg's
rs.rose tativus?
19
PERMANENTRECORD COPY.—TIs copy s be reture to DC/R  s  no   
Cc y to S . S, 
t・t ノ……

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
bd
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, March 4, 1947.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
133
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
APR 41947
No. 889
F5
SUBJECT: Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947.
C
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
APR 2 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
I have the honor to state that a general strike of labor unions,
894.5045/3-447
including those representing employees of the Japanese Government,
was expected to begin on February 1, 1947, and was prevented by the
issuance, on January 31, 1947, of a statement by General MacArthur,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, prohibiting the proposed
strike.
ACTION
The National Government and Public Office Workers Union, a
COPIBS
confederation representing the Government Railway Workers Union,
TO:
the National Communications Workers,Union, the National Council of
Teachers Unions, and staff unions of the Japanese Ministries of
Agriculture, Education, and Transportation submitted demands to the
government for increased pay and allowances as early as November
01C
1946. The National Government and Public Office Workers Union
appealed on December 6, 1946, to the Central Labor Relations Com-
.ock
mittee, a tripartite committee composed of equal numbers of repre-
sentatives of labor, management and the public, the latter being
appointed by the Ministry of Welfare. Although the Committee's
mediation plan, announced on December 18, 1946, was accepted with
reservations by the Ministry of Transportation, it was rejected by
the National Government and Public Office Workers Union.
Early in December the National Government and Public Office
C1G
Workers Union refused the invitation of the Social Democratic Party
to join a demonstration against the Yoshida Cabinet and stated that
CA
the workers were seeking wage and economic changes, not political
CS
revolution. The Communist Party announced, on January 9, 1947,
support for a proposed strike of the Government Railway Workers
Union. On January 11, 1947, KATO Kanju (Social Democratic Party)
and TOKUDA Kyuichi (Japan Communist Party leader) addressed a meet-
aims.
19
By January 18, the National Government and Public Office Worke
Union had been enlarged to include representatives of the Japanees
Federation of Labor, the National Congress of Industrial Unions,
Municipal Government Workers Union, and the National Medical Worl
Union. Announcement was made on January 25 that this body had be
given absolute authority by the unions it represented to conduct
proposed general strike in February. Cabinet members met with re
sentatives of the National Government and Public Office Workers
Union for the first time on January 26, which apparently constitu
tacit

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 889,
March 4, 1947
-2-
tacit recognition of the latter's authority to represent the above-
mentioned unions in collective bargaining with the Government.
Final terms of arbitration presented by the Central Labor Relations
Committee were accepted in principle by the representatives of the
Government but were rejected by the National Government and Public
Office Workers Union. A meeting on January 28, 1947, said to have
been comprised of members of all the previously mentioned unions,
was attended by an estimated 300,000 persons. The reported
"unanimous" passage by this group of a resolution censuring the
Yoshida Cabinet seemed to indicate that political motives had become
uppermost.
Although the support of the Social Democratic Party and the
Japanese Federation of Labor was withdrawn from the proposed strike
at the first oral instructions issued on January 22, 1947, by the
Chief of the Economic and Scientific Section of General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, representatives of the
National Congress of Industrial Unions and the government workers
unions (as well as the Communist Party) continued to support the
strike. In view of the firmness of the leaders of the latter-mentioned
unions, it was deemed necessary for General MacArthur, Supreme Com-
1
mander for the Allied Powers, to issue a statement (copy of which is
enclosed) on January 31, 1947, prohibiting the proposed strike.
Thereupon the remaining unions cancelled strike plans.
According to a statement made by INAGAKI Masanobu, member of the
National Council of Teachers Unions, and GOTO Denichiro, member of
the National Government and Public Office Workers Union, during a call
2/
on a member of this Mission (copy of a memorandum of which is enclosed)
on January 31, 1947, the labor unions "decided to demand a written
instruction signed by General MacArthur". An indication of the
aggressive attitude of some of the union leaders can be obtained from
this memorandum.
3/
There is also enclosed copy in Japanese and in English translation
of a petition dated February 1, 1947, signed by TSUMURA Kakuzo (pur-
portedly representing a local "Joint Labor Strike Committee"), which
was delivered at the office of the Allied Council for Japan and addressed
to Ambassador Atcheson in his capacity as Chairman of the Council.
Some twenty members of the Government Railway Workers Union called
upon a correspondent of the weekly publication "World Report" to re-
yuest that he publicize the fact that this petition had been delivered
to the Allied Council for Japan. The "appeal" to the Allied Council
and the Far Eastern Commission appearing in this petition is repre-
sentative of similar statements contained in other petitions received
by this Mission and may be interpreted as an attempt to "go over the
head" of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
4/
There is enclosed copy of a self-explanatory "check sheet" from
the Eccnomic and Scientific Section of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, containing a memorandum of a telephone
conversation which took place on January 28, 1947, between a member of
the Labor Division of that Section and The Honorable Yorkson C. T.
Shen, Chief Adviser, Chinese Mission in Japan. Mr. Shen discounted
a rumor that the Chinese Mission was supporting the general strike
movement

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 889,
March 4, 1947
-3-
movement and apparently desired to prevent possible misunderstand-
ing of a call made upon the Mission by a Japanese trade union
delegation.
As illustrative of Japanese press comment on this subject,
5/
there is enclosed a copy in Japanese and in English translation
of an editorial comment relating to General MacArthur's statement
which appeared in the Yomiuri Shimbun, February 1, 1947. It is
notable that the press discussed the subject cautiously and made
no inflammatory remarks. There are also enclosed in Japanese
6/
original the editorial comments of the Jiji, Mainichi, Asahi, and the
Nihon Keizai and copies of a general concensus thereof compiled by
7/
interpreter MATSUO Chuhei of this Mission.
From unofficial statements made by members of this Headquarters
it may be assumed that actions of the leaders of the National Con-
gress of Industrial Unions and of the government workers unions
during the final week before January 31 were no longer representative
of rank and file opinion within the unions themselves. At present,
proof exists of but one case of actual physical coercion but it is
felt that undue influence exerted upon union leaders by political
minorities (with especial mention of an organization called "The
Youth Action Corps") resulted in continuation of strike plans until
the issuance of General MacArthur's statement.
Available information indicates that the original demands for
pay increases for the workers were based on the inflated cost of
daily necessities. With reference to page 6 of a report entitled
"Food Situation During the First Year of Occupation", transmitted
to the Department with this Mission's despatch No. 847, dated Feb-
ruary 1, 1947, attention is invited to the statement that the
standard Japanese ration diet is below subsistence level and "the
only means of supplementing the rationed diet is by home production,
gift, and black-market purchases". Also contained in the report is
information that "over 70 percent of a family's budget had to be
devoted to the purchase of food". In as much as food remains limit-
ed and the inflationary trend continues, it is believed that the
statements quoted above apply with equal force to present conditions
in Japan.
It appears that the original factors in bringing about the pro-
posal of a general strike were economic but that the apparent lack
of discipline among union leaders during the week immediately pre-
ceding the cancellation of the strike was due to political pressure
exerted by Communist and left-wing extremists.
Respectfully yours,
cowRishop
Max W. Bishop
Counselor of Mission
Enclosures:
(See page 4)

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's 889,
March 4, 1947
-4-
Enclosures:
1. Statement by Supreme Commander,
January 31, 1947;
2. Memorandum of Statements by
INAGAKI Masanobu and GOTO Denichiro,
January 31, 1947;
3. Petition in Japanese, with English
Translation, February 1, 1947,
Signed by TSUMURA Kakuzo;
4.
"Check Sheet", January 29, 1947, from
Economic and Scientific Section,
General Headquarters, SCAP, to
Diplomatic Section;
5. Editorial Comment appearing in the
Yomiuri Shimbun, Tokyo, February 1,
1947, Japanese with English Transla-
tion;
6. Editorial Comment from Jiji, Mainichi,
Asahi, and Nihon Keizai, February 1,
1947, in Japanese;
7. Concensus of Editorial Comment mentioned
in Enclosure No. 6.
Original and hectograph to Department.
850.4
RHBushner/blc
He

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 889, dated March 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Relations Office
Immediate Release:
14:30
31 January 1947
GENERAL MaCARTHUR HAS ISSUED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT:
"Under the authority vested in me as Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, I have informed the labor leaders, whose unions
have federated for the purpose of conducting a general strike,
that I will not permit the use of so deadly a social weapon in the
present impoverished and emaciated condition of Japan, and have
accordingly directed them to desist from the furtherance of such
action.
"It is with greatest reluctance that I have deemed it necessary
to intervene to this extent in the issues now pending. I have done
so only to forestall the fatal impact upon an already gravely
threatened public welfare. Japanese society today operates under
the limitations of war defeat and allied occupation. Its cities are
laid waste, its industries are almost at a standstill, and the great
masses of its people are on little more than a starvation diet.
"A general strike, crippling transportation and communications,
would prevent the movement of food to feed the people and of cal
to sustain essential utilities, and would stop such industry as is
still functioning. The paralysis which inevitably would result
might reduce large masses of the Japanese people to the point of
actual starvation, and would produce dreadful consequences upon
every Japanese home regardless of social strata or direct interest
in the basic issue. Even now, to prevent actual starvation in Japan,
the people of the United States are releasing to them quantities of
their own scarce food resources.
"The persons involved in the threatened general strike are but
a small minority of the Japanese people. Yet this minority might
well plunge the great masses into a disaster not unlike that produced
in the immediate past by the minority which led Japan into the destruc-
tion of war. This in turn would impose upon the Allied Powers the
unhappy decision of whether to leave the Japanese people to the fate
thus recklessly imposed by a minority, or to cover the consequences by
pouring into Japan, at the expense of their own meager resources, in-
finitely greater quantities of food and other supplies to sustain life
than otherwise would be required. In the circumstances, I could hardly
request the Allied peoples to assume this additional burden.
"While I have taken this measure as one of dire emergency, I do
not intend otherwise to restrict the freedom of action heretofore
given labor in the achievement of legitimate objectives. Nor do I
intend in any way to compromise or influence the basic social issues
involved. These are matters of evolution which time and circumstance
may well orient without disaster as Japan gradually emerges from its
present distress."

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 889, dated March 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
COPY
Tokyo, January 31, 1947.
LEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Representation Concerning a Threatened General Strike.
On January 31, 1947, the following-named persons called at this
Mission to request an interview with the United States Political
Adviser:
INAGAKI Masanobu,
Zen Nihon Kyoin Kumiai Kyogi Kai
(National Council of Teachers Unions),
Lecturer in the Economics Department,
Keio University.
GOTO Denichiro,
Zen Kanko Shokuin Rodo Kumiai Kyogi Kai
(National Government and Public Office Workers Union),
Non-regular member of the staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
The above-named men were received by a Foreign Service Officer
of this Mission and informed that the United States Political
Adviser was enroute to Washington. Although they were advised to
approach the Labor Division, Economic and Scientific Section of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, which
has jurisdiction in such matters, the men proceeded to make a state-
ment, the principal points of which are summarized, in translation,
as follows:
Representatives of the labor unions were called to the
Labor Division on January 30, 1947, at 11:00 P.M., and were
informally instructed to call off the general strike. They
convened the instruction to the labor unions which decided to
demand a written instruction signed by General MacArthur.
This decision was delivered to the Labor Division at 2:00 A.M.
(sic), January 31, 1947.
In giving the informal instruction did the Labor Division
obtain approval of the Allied Council for Japan? Mere oral
instruction from the Labor Division was insufficient to pacify
or satisfy the union members. The strikers are acting within
the right and liberty guaranteed by the Far Eastern Commission
for the protection and enhancement of their political and eco-
nomic interests.
The existing Government is protecting the interests of
bureaucrats, militarists, and capitalists who collaborated in
the war which has plunged the Japanese people into the depth
-f misery and hardship.
The

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 889,
March 4, 1947
-2-
The Government holds in its statement that the strikers'
demands, if accepted, would increase the inflation and
aggravate the economic crisis. However, our stand is that
the Government's policy of protecting the interests of
capitalists and permitting black marketeering through grants
of subsidies, issuance of bonds, etc., is the cause of the
inflation.
The Government is not carrying out purge directives and
disbandment of the Zaibatsu faithfully.
(At this point, the above-mentioned Foreign Service Officer of this
Mission suggested that labor unions should make such demands through
regularly constituted channels rather than waste time. The men con-
tinued to make their statement.)
Just as in the past the Diet is controlled by the bureau-
crats, militarists and the capitalists, and the public opinion
is barred from full expression. We consider that the action
we are now taking is the only process for achieving our aims.
The bureaucrats and the capitalists are selfish and look to
their own interests at the expense of the masses. If we leave
the government in the hands of such classes, we will be unable
to save Japan from the crisis and post-war rehabilitation will
be impossible. We are working for increased welfare of the
general public and for Japan's reconstruction along the line
of democracy.
The Government and the interests it is eager to protect
bars the public from free expression of will by controlling
the press throughout Japan and not only that, the Government
also obstructs real emancipation for the enslaved peasants by
various controls exercised through various organizations.
Under the circumstances, we have to fight the Government
to carry through our aim and we are firmly convinced that we
are acting within the right and liberty granted by the Far
Eastern Commission.
MATSUO Chuhei
Interpreter

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 (in English) to Despatch No. 889, dated March 4,
1947, from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Govern-
ment Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
TRANSLATION
TO:
His Excellency, General MacArthur,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
His Excellency, George Atcheson,
American Representative, Allied Council for Japan.
His Excellency, MacMahon Ball, British Representative,
Allied Council for Japan.
His Excellency, CHU Shih-ming, Chinese Representative,
Allied Council for Japan.
His Excellency, Kuzma Derevyanko, Soviet Representative,
Allied Council for Japan.
Members of the Far Eastern Commission.
Petition
Government workers, led by the National Railroad Workers Union
and All Japan Communication Workers Union, because of the breakdown
of living conditions brought about by inflation, have opened nego-
tiations with the Government and presented demands for a minimum
wage scale and other measures. The attitude of the present YOSHIDA
Cabinet, in consort with financiers and landowners who made huge
profits during the war is such that no attention is given to the
precarious living conditions of the workers. The cabinet's insin-
cerity is manifested by the fact that, despite three months of nego-
tiation, no settlement has yet been made. Therefore, the 2,600,000
government workers, together with workers of various other indus-
tries, decided to carry out a general strike resolutely as of 1 Feb-
ruary to seek the dissolution of the YOSHIDA Cabinet, a group that
is obstructing the democratization of JAPaN. However, on 31 January,
by an order of General MacARTHUR prohibiting the general strike,
leaders of each union were called individually and were ordered to
suspend the general strike. Consequently, a satisfactory conclusion
to the demands of the mass of people was not attained, and the
YOSHIDA Cabinet, combining with the bureaucrats, is strengthening
its feudalistic and reactionary character more and more, Even now,
we cannot understand the order issued by General MacARTHUR.
I. We believe that freedom of political action by labor unions
is completely recognized by the Potsdam Declaration and/or by the
16 principles laid down in regard to labor unions by the Far Eastern
Commission.
II. We believe the aims of the Occupation Forces of the Allied
Powers is to liberate the Japanese people from feudalistic and
bureaucratic oppression and to bring about a complete democratiza-
tion of JAPAN.
III. The general strike has its inception in the people's desire
to probe to the bottom of the war responsibilities of the military
ruling class and to establish a peaceful JAPAN. This has the support
of

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 889,
March 4, 1947
-2-
of world public opinion and is in line with the desire of the
peoples of the world.
IV. If the general strike, which is an indispensable measure
for the democratization of JAPAN, can be denied, the Japanese
people will lose hope in democratization and there is the fear
that the militaristic reactionary forces will emerge gradually
and a dark period for JAPAN will begin again.
V. It is a known fact to most people that the general strike
will not obstruct the restoration of production of JAPAN today,
but that the black-market economic policy of the YOSHDa Cabinet
is responsible for this obstruction.
VI. The statement by General MacARTHUR says that people connect-
ed with this general strike represent only a small minority of people.
We feel this is a misunderstanding. The vast number of participants
in this strike, of whom government workers alone number some 2,600,000,
consist of workers of the machine tools industry, electrical industry,
chemical industry, electric plants, shipbuilding industry, publication
industry, newspapers, communication and traffic facilities, to say
nothing of the families of these workers. With the exception of
large-scale black marketeers, it is the general public, together with
the farmers, who are earnestly crying for the dissolution of the
YOSHIDA Cabinet.
VII. General MacARTHUR's statement says: "The persons involved
in the threatened general strike are but a small minority of the
Japanese people. Yet this minority might well plunge the great mass-
es into a disaster not unlike that produced in the immediate past by
the minority which led JAPAN into the destruction of war."
We cannot help feeling that this statement will result in invit-
ing misunderstanding among the Japanese people regarding General
MacArthur's sincerity in the liberation of the Japanese peoples.
Webelieve such words are applicable only to bureaucratic cabinets
that are not for the people, such as YOSHDA Cabinet.
The general strike is supported by the honest working class of
people; the YOSHIDA Cabinet is supported only by a group of evil
bureaucrats working in unison with black marketeers and obstructing
the economic reconstruction of JAPAN. In order to democratize com-
pletely the Japanese people as it was made clear to us in the Potsdam
Declaration, we earnestly desire the protection of the peoples!
political freedom and thereby make this appeal to the Allied Council
for JAPAN and the Far Eastern Commission.
1 February 1947
TSUMURA, Kakuzo
(TN Seal), representing KANAGAWA
Regional Joint Labor Strike Committee
and YOKOHAMA District Joint Labor
Strike Committee.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.83)
Enclosure No. 3 (in Japanese) to Despatch No. 889, dated March 4,
1947, from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Govern-
ment Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
(Petition, February 1, 1947, Signed by TSUURA Kakuzo)
走
産業勞傳者已去仁二月一日之期一てゼネ又卜
茲上官公勞二百六十萬勤勞者口其他各
かへりみず交涉は三ケ月っ長期上豆っても尚解決
金融資本家地主と結人て勤勞者生活危機
ま左が現告田故閣生戰爭中厖大去利益立得
今四國鐵全遞立先頭とする官公勞組刀從業員が
みせない程っ不誠意を示してるってあります。
る先治破綻から最低貨金制
8
を
左

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.81)
ます。
活働の自由は完全に認められてぬると信じて居り
組合上對寸る十六原則上依勞衝組合政治的
吾々はポツダ宣言或在極東本量會の勞働
することが云来ません
吾々は今も尚マ司令都の指令に對しては今も諒解
を強めて居ります
吉田內閣口官僚と結合之乙益夕封建的反動族
結果中勤勞大象力要求は滿足な結論主み
呼公出しゼネス卜中止を命令して来ました
ゼネストをやってはならぬと組合指導部を個々に
ところが一月三十一日マ司令部の指令仁依って
たる吉田内閣の退陣を求める樣になりました
そっ

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.84)
にあらずして吉田内閣のヤミ經済政策にあること
五現在日本の生産復興左はべむものがゼネス卜
暗黑時代り始まるおそれがあります
軍國的反動勢力が次第上頭を上少て再公日本
也られるな之伏日本人民は民主化仁希望至夫乙
四日本民主化上不可欽っ手段であるゼネス卜が否定
希望に添ふものであります。
でありこれは世界の與論の支持を受り世界人民の
平和日本を建てやうとする人民の要望に出發するもの
三七未又卜以軍國的支配階級戰爭責仕立追求し
を目餉と信じて居ります
官僚的壓迫から解放して民主化を徹底せしむる
四聯合國進駐軍の目的廿日本人民封建的

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.82)
誠意を日本國民上誤解せしめ子結果之招之樣上
追之之と云小言葉マ元帥が日本國民解放
導左為に主じ左同じ樣を狀態に大多數八々を
凶同じく聲明文の中口小數人々が戰爭禍
尖に吉田内閣打倒を切實に叫人でみるのであります
更曰大がかりなヤミ屋を拔かし左一般人民が農民と
その家族生加へるなら伏實上厖大な民が参加
電產造船出殷新聞通信交通がそ北仁加你
は官公勞左サで二百六十萬その他機器電工化學
これは誤解ではないかと思はれます。スト参知の人々
ものが国民中の小数にすぎなへと言はれて居りますが
六マ元帥の聲明の中に今回のゼネス卜に聞係する
多くの人が承知してぬるところであります。

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.83)
に陳情する次第であります。
也之れ人二と玄希望し乙四國理事會極東委夏會
徹底させる左め飽くまでも人民の政治的自由を權護
吾々は木ツ夕宣言仁明らか口され左曰本民主化を
官僚の支持があるのみであります。
玄はぐむヤミ商人やそれと結託せる悪い一部の
階級仁支持世之水告日奴閣は日本經濟再達
言葉と思れます七ネ入卜は眞面目な勤勞
離れ左官僚の内聞に對してのみ用ひられるべき
考へられてなりきせんこれは吉田内閣のわき人民を
一九四七年二月一日

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.86)
極東委員會御中
對日理事會聯代表クスマテレヤンコ閣下
對日理事會中國代表朱世明閣下
對日理事會英國代表一クマ木ボル閣下
對日理事會米國代表ジアチソ閣下
聯合國最高司令官マツ力廿一元帥聞下
橫濱地區勞慟者共同開爭委員會
神奈川地方勞働者失同鬪爭本員會
右代表者
津村格三（卯)

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.82)
ましちがそつま寫しました。
誤字と思れるもの立二三原文中仁發見し
(一)
(三)

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 889, dated Mabch 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POVERS
Check Sheet
WFM/TC/SDO/mo
File No. 004.07(29 Jan 47)
Subject: Report of Mr. Shen, Chinese
Mission
From: ESS
To: DS
Date: 29 January 1947
1. In accordance with the request of Mr. Bishop, Diplomatic
Section, in telephone conversation 28 January 1947, with Mr. Collett,
ESS/La, the following is transmitted.
2. Mr. Shen of the Chinese Mission telephoned Labor Division
at approximately 1515 hours, 28 January 1947, to say that a Japanese
trade union delegation had requested his opinion of the proposed
1 February general strike. Mr. Shen stated that the delegates were
told that he could not give them an official opinion from Chinese
Mission. However, his personal opinion was that it would be most
advisable if the general strike could be avoided.
3. Mr. Shen then stated that he was calling ESS/LA at this time
because he had heard that the Japanese union delegates were spreading
rumors that the Chinese Mission supported the general strike, and he
wanted to prevent this erroneous information from being represented to
GH as fact.
4. Mr. Shen further stated that the Japanese union delegates
asked him to bring the question of the general strike before the
Allied Council on Wednesday, 29 January 1947. Mr. Shen stated that
he told the union delegates this was impossible because the Allied
Council does not meet again until a week from Vednesday, 29 January.
5. This is for your information.
-W.F.M.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. £89, dated March 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
JAPAIESE EDITORI.L FRCM YOMIURI SHIMBUN
C4D
社
说

=== Page 21 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 889, dated March 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
TRANSLATION
Editorial from Yomiuri Shimbun, February 1, 1947, Entitled
"Appeal to Laborers"
A general strike of all government and office workers scheduled
to take place on February 1 is bound to strike a vital blow to the
livelihood of the nation and the workers. The Government and the
political parties have to be partly blamed for bringing on this situa-
tion. The Government should have more seriously taken up this ques-
tion promptly and the political parties should urge the Government to
prevent the strike. Only the Communists have been urging the workers
on toward the general strike. The strike could have been avoided and
if the leaders of the National Government and Public Office Workers
Union realize their heavy responsibility to the state and the community,
they will compromise on the basis of the proposition made by the Central
Labor Committee. The average wage of ¥1,200 proposed by the Central
Labor Committee is not low compared with general wages. The minimum
wage of 600 demanded by the Teachers Union is recognized. Moreover,
the Government proposed to fix the salaries of government and public
office workers on an appropriate scale on the basis of recommendations
by the Committee for Consideration of Salaries and Allowances which is
charged with working out of a wage standard that is rational in com-
parison with general wages and price levels.
We have been anxious to have the destructive effect of the general
strike avoided. Are we mistaken in urging the leaders of the Govern-
ment and Public Office Workers Union to compromise with the recommenda-
tions of the Central Labor Committee? Japan now faces a serious crisis.
Associated Press News of January 31 reports an interview with Ambassador
Atcheson, United States Political Adviser, who is thus quoted:
"Unless the economy, shattered by the war, is speedily
reconstructed, Japan will face a critical--almost a desperate
situation."
The majority of private firms and companies are in a difficult
situation through shortage of materials and power. They are almost
on the verge of bankruptcy. Strikes or production management cannot
remedy this sit ation. Both the capitalist and the laborer will be
equally ruined without speedy rehabilitation. This situation is not
a class crisis but a racial crisis. As a result of the lost war, the
whole of Japan's economy faces bankruptcy. What is most important
is to increase production. As regards individual enterprise, in-
creased yields through greater efficiency are desirable and any in-
creased profits should be applied to better treatment of workers.
If the increased profits from greater efforts by the workers are not
divided among them, then they should take the profits by strikes.
For that purpose they should demand participation in a management
council for the thorough-going investigation and understanding of
corporate accounts and consultation with the management concerning
methods of increasing profits. They should demand that a greater
proportion of profits thus increased be distributed to them. You
laborers should know best of all in what a bad state Japan is eco-
nomically. If the Government were absolutely against compromise
the question might be different; however, the Government comes
close to the proposals of the Central Labor Committee.
If

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Enc1. No. 5 to
Tokyo's 889,
March 4, 1947
- 2 -
If it is improved treatment which is demanded by the workers,
we think that they can come to terms to avoid a strike which gives
such a serious blow to the nation. To carry out the general strike
may be interpreted as an attempt to destroy the Government and to
establish a "democratic people's government" advocated by the Com-
munists. In fact, Communist factions in each union are propagandiz-
ing and furthering this aim. Let us consider this question with a
cool head. If political changes through such means are permitted,
there will be no use for a Diet. The result will be a despotic
government of the Conmunists; all freedom of politics and thoughts
will be lost. Will such bring real happiness for the workers? Com-
munists claim a despotic government by the proletariat but power
will actually fall into the hands of their leaders, among whom is
a large number of men of intellect; workers and all people will have
to kneel before their orders; one thought will be coerced upon them.
Will this bring happiness to the people?
We Japanese are too ignorant of the nobility of liberty. Free
expression of one's own will, government by men who are elected by
free choice, and free attacks on criticism of and support for the
existing government are the rights of people to whom liberty is grant-
ed. To be deprived of this freedom must be absolutely prevented. To
protect individual freedom, that of others must also be respected,
and each should assume responsibility for his speech and actions. A
free community is built upon mutual respect and responsibility. True
happiness is found only in a free community.
We have acquired freedom in politics and thought. A way has been
opened for socialism or communism through peaceful and democratic
means if supperted by a majority of people. What is the use of re-
sorting to such destructive means as the general strike in taking over
governmental power? Rome was not built in a day. An ideal community
cannot be realized soon. Life is a compromise. A person camot
govern as he wishes,-the home, the community, the state. If he
chooses to govern thus, the only way is to resort to despotism as did
the militarists. We are all tired of despotism. Workers are advised
to know that a democratic community is possible through compromise.
Arguments considered right should be carried out only after expression
of opinion and with majority support. To try to realize by a general
strike that which is opposed by a majority means destruction of
democracy. Let us mutually avoid the folly of destroying democracy
before we fully appreciate the true worth of freedom or democracy.
Let us obtain the happiness of the working class through the protec-
tion of freedom. To do that let us first of all reconstruct Japan's
economy which is on the verge of bankruptcy. Let us demand of the
capitalist and the Government improvement of our living side by side
with the economic reconstruction.
We desire prudent action of the workers and if our arguments are
wrong, we welcome their frank criticism.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclosure No. 6 to Despatch No. £89, dated March 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Degin on February 1, 1947".
(一)
B版
命令
ゼネス卜中止
(一)
昭和2年(1947年)
22
社
のストライキ
ストっイキを中けしなくて
心とするゼネラル・ストウイキを
を一新せよ
總辭職して政
社
說
みるのかであるしかしあはかりか、おんはい
の中として、点となつた
で
の
9
三
そスのの
て、寂問の非を見かれないとの

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.78)
Encl. No. 6 to
Tokyo
March
3
版
第
(明治五年刊)
百
九
して今後の問間な收拾するかと当ればならない政府の現的照に伴うことな忘れてはならない。のろうが、その自覚は將邪建にの
なったことは道である如何に府として大いに反する所がなけはそれに行して大さな仕をが如何に大であるかな知つたであわなければならないが、それにはるものであることな知らなければ
最殿邪眼を回遊することな頃んだ
野は政府と労組側が載惑をもつて
し測り知れないものがあろう。吾
政治的、經洛的此金的財額は證
が予定通り逃行された場合その
公分組な中心とする周屈頭
めぐつて
宮勞爭議を
說
折くとしても政付に段ばなしと吸とは性当において思る。從って
る。特に調々の具本門問題は始くうだでなく、私企図における照
について自ら批判する必要がお飛い思に規段が大であるとい
來政府がとって来た政策や照臣とな理以する而も今回の如き総
えることも結碑でおる。同時に從組合のがそれけ鉛力あるこ
は所はを公裏して國民の判断に脈
照の理由がおろう。それについててない泣に示された緑能榮の
求を拒絶したたついてはそれ相
環なやむがすとして労組の理
はならない政府としては結題
ては先ず政府が十分考えなけれとな考うべきである。
恵をかく悪化せしめたことについ初糾せしめ今日に至らしめたこ任について十分の彩週を捕うもの
回最も重大な間題であるがが当初に於いて事願を必要以上に開終縮頭を決行するには、その賢に投立てなければならない。
の
際が大でおるということは
のRは、今回の年間によって
労動問合の最大の武器である組
今回の年間によつて一般國民はかる者は國民の批判以外にない政試練であつたと同時に一般國民
以て行動する必要がおる。恐らくが対立した場合それな解決すであり、労助組合にとつで大きな
安切時勢を十分おばして、確信を現在のように政府と組合側の意見の半調は政府にとつて四大な問題
とは確かでおるが、そのお合にもに無関心でおつていく西はない。政治の砸立は息み得ない。今回
建設のために終場が必吸であるにみしながら國民がこの取大た問題政治紅題を昂めなければ、民主々
その使い方にある。或場合にはと判えた者が多いからでおろう。と並行して、聞民一般らほたその
那段にも大さく作用する問問は最大原因の一つは総品菜を他入取消的、肚会的は腰が高くなつたの
大さな力は破図にも大きく動ぎるか。その似因は神々おろうがるかな知るであろう。動労者の政
な刑することが大切である。時に心であつたといわれる。何故であの直授、間授の影が如何に大な
と見られるが、無の上には
政の面國が理性に基き、到的批判ならない
かような岡民大梁の明問に会くうわさもあるしかしこれが自組合側のみならずかねがね動労器ある
ちのでううきにイしにるのとうのでは今回くりし
それ故に現在政変ないし
する改造
時代に逆
一般民は総語に比較的無関る人は恐らく後に至つて、総罷頭
三
イでるとしそれのが大分れしていないといわれるしか
在他人事であるとして無問心であ
を則えることが必要でおる。現
で民の九 由のミくたののにつ政 学からく
安本までという生活物の間であるお田、は州労者の立母に立つた政治が行
微政、目見の化恐本て理ができるはすがないこ
でとうしか
内閣の下ではどうしても変求の全われる以外にない
はいないようたその他とのり返しくり返しききれ求され
吉用相は未だ迎立工作を断念
解決しうるし、フローカーやヤミ
これらの財頭が過止最格に彼收
たである

=== Page 25 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 7 to Despatch No. 889, dated March 4, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed General Strike, Including Japanese Government
Employees, Planned to Begin on February 1, 1947".
TRANSLATION
Concensus of Editorial Comment
(Mentioned in Enclosure No. 6)
1. The nation has been saved from grave unhappiness by the
directive issued by General MacArthur, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. The general strike, if carried out, would have given
a vital blow to the nation, including the laborers themselves.
2. The Yoshida Cabinet and the political parties are respons-
ible for negligence in not taking up the question more promptly for
an amicable settlement. We would have preferred a solution before
the prohibition order was issued by the Supreme Commander. Upon
reading the statement issued by the Liaison Section as an accompani-
ment to the order, we feel greatly ashamed that the strike question
had to bother General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Povers. The statement clearly points out that the order has been
issued to avoid the destructive effect of a general strike at this
time when the whole of Japan is in a critical situation and that it
is not intended in any way to restrict the freedom of workers to
fulfill their aims in other ways than by such a general strike.
3. Japanese should realize that they were defeated in the war
and that Japan is under the occupation of the Allied Powers. If all
Japanese realized that they have been saved from starvation by relief
supplied from scarce food resources in the United States, they would
never have resorted to such a general strike. As rightfully pointed
out in the directive, Japan has been thrown into the present disaster
by the militarists and rinor factions. The majority of the Japanese
must not be permitted to repeat the same fault by the leadership of
strikers who are, in comparison with the rest of the nation, a small
number. To ask unlimited relief from the Allied Powers on top of the
general strike is against our conscience. The Government is respons-
ible for the situation but reflection of the leaders of the workers
is desired as to the proper course for the labor movement.
4. It is not General Headquarters that reconstructs Japan but
we Japanese. A general resignation of the Yoshida Cabinet is advised.
The Government should change its fundamental attitude. The reshuffling
of the cabinet has weakened the position of the Goverment instead of
strengthening it. The issues still remain to be solved and they cannot
be settled by the Government which regards labor movements as hostile.
The Yoshida Government is too wealk to tide over the crisis.
5. General MacArthur's statement is quoted thus: "...nor do I
intend in any way to compromise or influence the social issues involved."
6. Compromise on the basis of the arbitration plan of the Central
Labor Relations Committee is advised.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
TWT 3/17
UNRESTRICTED
3028
Z
ACTION:ITP
From: London
INFO:
Date: March 11, 1947
DC/R
Rec'd: March 18, 12:01 p.m.
U-E
EUR Secretary of State,
FE
Washington.
894.5045/2-2647
DC/L
GOD
A-540, Merch 11, 1947.
CIG.
TP
1. Reference Embassy's Airgram A-400, Febreary , 194E,
in subject of threatened labor strike in Japan.
S
894.5045/3-1147
S.
2
 particular reference to possible issuance of instructions t
Commonucalth representative on Allied Council tocpress for dsves-
tigatlon into labor conditions, exchanged in Houge ofommong
on Harch 10, 1947:
m
6
R
Mr. John Paton (Labor M.P. for Norwich) asked the Socnatary
of State for Foreign Affairs if, in view of the recent strikes
and genoral unrest amongst industrial workers in Japan, he will
ITP/D
instruct the Commonwealth representetive on the Allied Council
o pess for an investigation into working conditions.
Mr. McNoil (Minister of State for Foreign Affairs): "Working
 oncitions in Japan are undor constant study by the Labour Div-
sion of General MacArthur's Headquartors, acting on behalf of
 si! tho Allies. His Majesty:s Government are kept fully informed
an the labour situation and my right hon. Friend does not con-
gider any usoful purpose would be served by pressing at this
Stage, for any additional investigation to be made. The principles
Vhich now govern trade union activity in Japan were laid down
by tho Far Eastern Commission in en important policy decision
datcd 6th Docember, 1946, which has the full support of His
Hajesty's Governme t. I havo arranged for a copy of the test
to be placed in the Library of the House."
Mr. Peton: "While I accept from my right hon. Friend that
there is machinery for investigating these conditions, may I ask
I'im vhother, in viow of the fact that these conditions recently
Tsre such as to give rise to a threat of a reneral strike, which
Eas only que"led by the ection of the Supreme Commander, he
ould see that the Allied Commission in Washington give dir-
oetive to rmmedy these conditions?"
0
LR
Mr. McNeil:
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
C
TNRESTRTCTED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.90)
Page 2, A-540, Merch 11, 1947, London
UNRESTRICTED
Mr. MeHoil: "It is to that directive that I am directing
tho attentfon of my hon. Friond. If he will read it, I think
he will agroo that it is a good basis for the development of
trade union policy thore."
Mr. King (Labor M. P. for Ponryn end Falmouth): "Is it
not a fact thet this country hes no represontative on the Allied
Counoil ond, therefore, wo canrot instruct? There is an
Austrelion reprosontative on tho Council, who is reprosentative
of all the Doninione. Furtheu, is it not a fact that wo have
withdraur all troops from Jayen, thereby limiting our respon-
sibility end that ve cannos li it cur rosponsibility and increase
our inflnence?"
Mr. MoHeil: "I will monly so tho first part of my hon.
Friena s suppiomonbary question, which I thing is the only rele-
vant part. It is true that wo vould not seok to instruct the
Auseralien meprosontetive. who popresonts the Dominions ss well
as ouvcolves, but ve have e Cos mission in Vashington on which we
are ropreaoutcd."
Me. W Fictchor
(Consorvative M. P. for Bury): "Is not
this a matsor for our Spocial Comsissioner in the Far East,
who sonds ais ropresontativos to Japan?
If not, what other
funetions loos he porform?"
Mr. R mald Chamberlain (Tebor M.P. for Norvood): "Did
Goneral Mao Arthur conauls tho A Llied Council before issuing his
orders to orbid the pocent etylke?"
Hr. HolHo1l:
"uay I sey. in voply to the hon. Member for
Bury Tsr W  Totohey), that I sove juet pointed out thas we
beve a ropvseentetive on she licaeon mission."
Me. Chomberlein:
"May I bavo an anower to my quesoion?"
GALIMAN
Copr so D.  Politiecl Advlner, SoaP, Tokyo
Eooaadgho/vg
REAPYAR

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2678
AIRGRA
FROM: JosCow. U.S.S.R.
ATE
S
D: npril 9, 1948
U.ICLASSIFIE
DES1T.TCiaD: Apr11 11, 194€
RCEIV..D: Apr. 29, 1948 ε:
3
A
ACTION EUR
INRO
Secratary of State.
DC/R
iashington.
SA/M
PE
A-361, 八pr11 9, 1948
DC/L
ITP
Trud, april 3, two-ooluan article entitled "The
894.5045/4-948
OCD
trike Movenent in Japan" clains strike wave in arch
CIA
les designed as warning to governnent of worse to cone
if strikers' danands rejeoted. Articlu also claias
DIE
srat eoonomic position of workcrs and enployees co-
2A
stantly worsening and present governnent liko prede-
cessor refuses consider interests of workcrs.
article states that "Us finance capital intends
suppress denporatio movencnt of Japanese . asaes" under
guise of buildiug up Japan as Far astern bulwark
against Comaunisn.
Alleging t at the four greatest Japanese oorpor-
tions--.litsui, itsubishi, sunitomo and Yasuda--have
already been exempted by the aerican autnorities from
scentralization, the article charges that Japanese
APR26
and Aaerican capitalists hope to oontinue colonial
orploitation of the workers.
The article sarply attacks Right-«ing Socialists
as betrayors of the working nasses and agents of Aneri-
can and Japanese oapitalists, tryin- to split the Jape-
nese labor novonent. Coanunist strength in the labor
novenent is said to be high, as evideniced by 25 Conmu-
nists out of 50 neabers of the xecutive Coaittee of
the National Congress of Industrial Trade Unions and
il out of l9 aeabers of tho Presidiun of the recutive
onnittee. The artiole conoludes on the theme that "onl
the Comaunist party is fighting for the independence of
Japan and the real in terests of the worcers."
S1ITH
王
TIreland:rva
88
PERMANENTRESORB CORMyThis copy must 
UNCLSSIILED
entral files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
Form DS-30c
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATESION OF
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AUG/1 2 1948
PLAIN
N
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
15
Contro1 37410
Action:
FE
Rec 'd August 12, 1948
894.5045/8-1248
Info
。
6:39 a.m.
P
0
FROM: Shanghai
SAM
OLA
TO:
Secretary of State
1ice of
CIA
DCL
NO:
1797! August 12
ITP
OFD
Following is Central News Agency item distributed
tate
FC
August 10:
POS
PA
"82,000 Japanese Government workers in Osaka sent
DCR
delegates to Tokyo this morning to petition the
Chinese Mlasion here for help in restoring their
constitutional rights of collective bargaining and
strike. The petition on similar contents will also
be sent to the heads of the British, Russian and
French missions here this afternoon the delegates
told Central Nevs.
Describing the Jananese Government s No-Strike
Ordinance as 'unconstitutional' the petition claimed
General Douglaa MacArthur's Letter to Premier Ashida
CS/A
is not en order but merely a suggestion to the
Japanese Govermment. The Japanese Government is
attempting to rebuild the Fascist regime in Japan
through ruthleus suppression by police foree of the
Jemocratlc' labor union movement which is recognized
by Japan's new conssitution charged the petition.
Contacted by Centra! Newe this morning the union
804.50
delegates said Osaka is practically a police city
over since the end of July when Japanese authorities
announced a municipa: ordinance banning demonstration
parade and assenbly without five days prior notification.
The v artime secret po!ice syatem is revived in suppression
of the laber movement and plain-clothes police planted
in factories and the vicinity of ucion leaders homes
revealed the delegates. The delegates said secret
UG 17 1948
police jagents
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
PLAIN
-2- #1797, August 12, from Shangha1.
police agents appear at every Iabor meeting and every
post or placard for publioity purposes is subject to
police censcrsnip."
Sent Tokyo 154, repeated Department 1797.
CABOT
SY:ML
PLAIN

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS
()FE
(50Day
Memorandum of Conversation
(3)S/S R
TOP SECRET
DATE: October 27, 1948
SUBJECT:
Labor Law Prohibiting Strikes in Japan
PARTICIPANTS:
The Secretary
Mr. Ernest Bevin
Dr. Jessup
Sir Alexander Cadogan
Mr. Bohlen
Mr. Roberts
Mr. Dean
COPIES TO:
Gen. Carter
894.5045/10-2748
Mr. Lovett ✓
Seam
Zile
During the conversation this morning Mr. Bevin
raised the question of the new lebor law in Japan
prohibiting civil servants from striking against the
Government. He said that it was clear that Govem-
ment employees had no right to strike but that some
form of redress involving arbitration should be
provided for. He said there was strong feeling in
labor circles in England that the present law in
Japan which MacArthur had put in was samewhat unfair
to the Government employees; thet in England several
years ago the question had arisen and while the prin-
ciple that Government employees could not strike pre-
TOT
A/MK
vailed they hed set up a system of arbitration based
on a neutral tribunal which would provide methods of
redress in the event of disputes. He hoped thet same
MAr: 18 1949
such change could be introduced in the new Japanese
SECRET FILE
law in order to offset an adverse reaction in lebor
circles. He said he was not sking for any immediate
action but hoped that we would bear this in mind.
5045
The Secretary told Mr. Bevin that we had had
similar compleints concerning this law from our own
labor organizetions.
CEBohlen:mcw
030701
2-9-0170

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCHT
INCOMING TELEGRAM
F
ctface c
aOPLAIN
the
4
2
Control 781
Action: FE
Rec'd December 2, 1948
Info :
E
2:18 p.m.
P
SAM
DIVISION OF
EUR
OLI
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
CIA
DCL
PROM: MOBOOW
DEC - 1948
ITP
mur3
POS
TO:
Secretary of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PA
DCR
EO:
2809, December 2
PRAVDA December second carries brief Tokyo Tass despatah
stating Japanese Lower House has accepted project cal-
894.5045/12-248
ling for review law depriving government workers right to
strike in accordance MacArthur's letter Ashida July 1948.
Sent Department 2809. Department pass Tokyo 47.
SMITH
BB:PAF
Nodict
R区sety
Repeated to Tokyo, December 2, 3:1O P.M., F.N., DC/T.
DEC
201948
江
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
Mn. Coon
TO
: FE - Mr. A111son
Office of
ATE: July 14, 1949
FAR EASTERN BFS
111948
NH
FROM : NA - Mr. BOYd
RAF
SUBJECT:
L
At NA's request, the attached study on the Japanese
Government railway strike has been prepared by DRF. The
summary and conclusions are worth reading.
Tee
FW 894.5045/6-1349
DRF emphasizes that SCAP'e position in the strike
controversy is made delicate by the danger that Yoshida,
1f given full SCAP support, might by accident or design
turn an anti-Communist campaign into a general anti-labor
campaign. Such a development, DRF warns, would almost
certainly undercut SCAP's role es protagonist of organized
labor, push most trade unions to the left, and militate
against political and economic stability.
The burden of the U.S.-imposed stabilization program,
with its mass layoffs, wage-fixing, and increased hours
of work, has unquestionably fallen heavily on the shoulders
of labor. NA would queetion, however, the basis for the
supposition that Yoshida may promote a "general anti-labor
campaign" during this period of unrest arising from the
stabilization program.
CS/MDR
2
F.w.844.5045/6.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
CONFIDENTIAL
3

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
wwB
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
NA!
NG
Stit. Dept,
TO
: NA - Mr. Bsbop
DATE: June 13, 1949
FROM : NA - Mr. Green MG
sUBJEcT: Strike by Certain Japanese Government Railways Workers
Reconstructing the strike story briefly from press
accounts (no official report has yet been received), the
2,800 members of the Kanagawa Chapter of the National
Railwaye Workers Union went on strike on June 10, closing
all train ccmmunications between Tokyo and Yokohama and
interrupting traffic on the Central East-West Japan lines.
Synchronized with the strike were statements by most of th
unione affiliated with the Communist-dominated Sambetau
(the Japanese CIo) to the effect that they had "completed
mobilization plans to assist the railways workers".
However, 8 hours after this illegal strike started --
8
illegal, because all strikes by Government workers are
proscribed by Japanese law -- the Labor Division of SCAP
4.5045/
directly ordered all strikers back to work. Some of the
workers were slow in complying with SCAp's order, but by
the following day normal train services were resumed.
Comment
The strike was obviously Communist inspired. It was
9
timed to take advantage (1) of the absence in Paris (at the
1
ILO meeting)of the anti-Communiet President of the National
Railway Workers Union, Mr. Kato Etsuo, (2) of the widespread
349
resentment among Government workers toward the personnel
retrenchment program, the longer hours, the low pay, etc.,
during the firet week of the enactment of the Public Corpora-
tions Labor Relations Law.
There is no indication that the Communists planned to
go through with any general strike. The ominous statements
of the Sametsu affiliates are believed to represent militant
posturing and muscle-flexing by the Communiets - a warning
of the critical strength of the Communist-dominated unions
C
without bringing the JCp into a direct test of strength
with SCAP. The Communists were also able to pose as the
.52
vanguard of labor's prerogatives.
Not to be overlooked is the fact that SCAP moved directly
to quash the strike without coneulting or seeking to work
through constituted Japanese authority. The inference is
Cat
that such Japanese authority would have been ineffective.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
Copy No.
CONFIDENTIAL
JAPAN: THE RAIIROAD STRIKE OF JUNE 9-12 AND ITS AFTERMATH
PRELDITNARY VERSION
OIR Report No. 5002 (PV)
July 7, 1949
M
THIS IS AN JINTELLIGENCE REPORT; NOTHING
IN IT IS TO BE CORSTRUED AS A STATEMENT
OF U.S. OR DEPARTMENTAL POLICY OR AS A
RECOISENDATION OF ANY GIVEN POLICY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of Research For Far East
DISTRYBUTED NY
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH
d
5y.
CONFDENTIAL

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTTAL
SUMMARY
The recent strike of goverment railroad workers in the Tokyo area
was inspired and emploited by Commmist lafluonces and halted by SCAp order.
fithough the ostengirle issue was one of collective bargaining over a new
vorking schedule, the diepute vas really & menifestation of the union's
valitant attitude tevavd the goverzsent personne) retrenchment program
enacted in lew. In the implemontation of thie program, a direct conse-
cuance of the econom'c stabilization mensurres directed by the United
Statos, collective bargaining and grievance and appeal procedures other-
viso applicable are cpscifically denied to the govermment workere' unions
a?feoted.
In the strike, the pro-Commumist leadership of the railroad union
derwnsirated the cou se of action eepousei by the extreme left for com-
bating the progran. Medorete elenents, equally opposed to layoffs, favor
co lective bergainin? wlthout rosort to strikes snd hope for rescission
or modsification of the progrem at an osrly special session of the Diet.
The conservative governyent und the Ccmunigts are both hoping to
profit fvcm this sitvation. Tho goverzment spparently aspires to gain
CoA? cumport for a duel progren of ihereesing the effectiveness of the
police force and lauaching a general anti-Comunist caxpeien. The
Commmists are epparently counting on the prospective reatriction of
labor activities by polieo and SCaP actien to generate further tension
end tumoil favorable to nohievement of taeir ob jectives. While general
CONFDENTIAT

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDEITLAL
iuprovement in economic conditions would tend to compose the situation
in the long rum, evidences that legitimate labor interests will be pro-
tected would have a speedier effect in strengthening the position of the
enti-Commmist forces in the trade umions. Otherwise, extensive police
action nay be expected to eccelerate the polerization process and to
incroase the prospect of a shovdoun between Right and Loft.
1
CONFTDENTTAL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
CONPDENTTAL
JAPAN: THT RATTROAD STRIKE OF JUNE 9-12 AND ITS AFTERMATH
Backuround. Fectors
Encctrent of the controversial Tablo o? Personmel Organization
bill t the end of May mede lacge-scale leyof's of govermment employees
cortain srul imminent. This measure, stipulating in the case of the goverm-
mozt vallroads a veduction of some 100,c00,  about a aixth of the work-
ing "oree, wes requirnd in order to bring governnent personnel expenditures
wlihlr the limits of the balanced nationel bulget, which in turn had been
ta lered to mpleent the ecenmic stabilizstion program directed by the
Unibed States Govermment.
Feilwe of tho Joft-ving opposition representing Labor's interests
to oheive or defost the bill left governmeut workers' wfons without of-
fective ega moans of preventing or mcdifying the implementation of a
prosrom they have umominously end bitterly opposed. Their opposition
has stxarnd in pars on simrpls feer of econonic dislocetion; in part
from apprshersions o tho coneervative governmont's intentions; and in
pert fron the persisvence of treditienal Japanese employmont relation-
chips in which sosial respcnsibilities have genorally outveighed the
economlc argsents fer employee layoffe. Already denied the right to
strike and, in most casos, the right to bargein colleotively, these
untons vere Iso without beuefit of pretecticn of the National Publio
Eervice Ley, whose provlcicns for appeal ageinst involuatary diemissals
vere suspeaded for the pumposee of the Table of Personmel Organization
COINTDHNTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.90)
CCPEOETHAT
2
On ume 1, vhen the govermment railroade became a public corpora-
tiom and the Publie Corporation Labor Relations Law vent into effect,
the povernmment railroad workers' umion (Kolutetsu) regainsd the right to
bargein coilectivaly in a vide prea of laber relations questions. Hovover,
Kolutoteu wag in no better position than other government vorkere' unions
with pegerd to the pussommel retrenchrent program, since collective bar-
geining wd crievance proccdures vere epecifically denisd in that con-
nectice. Othenise KFolutetsu, et the bogirning of June, was in a rela-
sively urtettened pesitia, since grievance, mediation, and arbitration
mechamery did not ccme tate befrg simnltanecusly with the Public Corporation
Tebor Fc ations Law nor were the provlcfons of that law goverming union
compasssson and operetion immedietely implarmented.
In ite national convention in April, Kolutetsu cemo under pro-
Commumint Le?t-ving caatrol by a reletivoly nerrow margin. Although KAto
Etsuo. a Sosialist, wua re-elccied chainsan, the new vice chairman was a
Comamies Perty member ana the seerotaty general was a muaber of the pro-
Commmiet Refone Teague. In tho cew Central Gosmittee and the reconsti-
tute" Contral Struggle Comrittee, the leftiet "unity fection," consisting
of Comsnmists and Refore Leaguers, gcined control by mergins of roughly
3-2 over the euti-Communiet Demoeratizaticn Teague. Among other things,
the conventicn pledged the wicn to vight the projeoted personnel lay-
offe aad the 48-hour weel. he strateey cdonted was the so-called "reflex
struggle," in which the function of mion heedquarters is to organize and
develop disputes initisted by the locale; the tectics spesified were
"collective bargaining, prepegela activities, and mass saspaigns." All
CODFIDENRTAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.84)
CODTAL
3
Lokutetan
cmpeirgs were to be cocrdinated with the National Liaison Coumell
of Gorenmert end Fublic Woreere's Urions.
Origin of the StrlUe
Furiny the letter pert of Mry, reports of the Commmist journal Akahata,
to seme exteet substantaeted by otrer reuspapers, indicated that Kokutetau
hoadquorters end scme cf its locels anticipated that large-soale lay-offs would
Dogin oly in uce. Tuing the firet fey daye of Jume, Bome Locals reportedly
resclve? to ectbah sucl. diemissals by "force" (e characterietically vague term
amelly comting strilxs), and wee gosded in thie direction rather than checked
by the ok meateu vice chalmen, who wao scting heed of the umion in Kato's
abeence
Lomuteten hecsguarterm, moceover, warring that railroad authorities
snteses to omy cut porsonnel csroisuase unilaterally," inotructed locals
to re sct  mesticatione ens. exssinrticae" in commection with ley-offs,
ponéiee leousace  further sestructlona.
Sm bess e Soers of miats und unilateral ley-offo in the Tokyo
ame war previded y tho effeemat.an er sune 5 of a new end more efficlent
workany ec hedule Ehet copereartly letsthened working houre slightly and also
Vhile most of the railroad
vworkers in the Sotmvo eres sceenee te the wow ccledule, soms apparently in-
thmidatud thelr sumersoe dto sagming Ebebements that no dischorges would
ensve. Te teo cases, hosever, soso waicn memvers refused to Pollow the new
1. Althergh a 8-hour veek hed been imengpurreted in the goverimaent service
cn saraary I, sts comfoccement hed been deleged in the government railroeds,
vhich contimmed to observe the 7-heur dey srd 35-hour veek provided by the
previcus leber eereecent.
CONITAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.87)
COLLPJDENTLAL
schedule. On June ?, the Shimbarhi local ordered its mombers to follow
the cd schedule and was in effect backed in this position by a 16-9
vote of the Kolutetau Central Staruggle Committee. Railrced officials
nevt "ay accordingly weames that failuta to obnerve the new service re-
culat ons voula bo pumished by dimmesel aocording to the maximm legal
ponalty for steihes, cloudowes, or "eny other acts of dispute hampering
the nomel courte of coporetion."
Soe Strike of Juca 9-32
On Jure 9, t Matimel Rcilwey Corporation diumissed 19 conductors
who od for several doet ref weed to follow tho new work sehedule and who
were ccssidered rinc eaders of the opposition to it. The Corporation's
aenouceent chmgee that tho man, wome  whom was more then 33 years of
s5o, hed oosed wnder "outeo" sudflueroes an? warned that further die-
mússels vould bo effee bed as necosgasy.
Thio cetion lod one locel to valk out fmediately, and several
others follevsd shertl themeertom. Sme 2,800 workere were reported
to be involvel, end much o? the eil mervice in the Tokyo-Yokohama area
wes tied up cer disrpted. The u ike, itself a challonge to the authority
of the Japeuese Coverrment, sheva throughout the militent posture of the
extreme Pest towarr wos onl the govessment but aleo the oceupation.
Further dismissele, which brought the tetal to 66, evoked a defiant ves-
ponee. Police sttewptes to hals the strike renulted in serimaages and
were ineffective. "People'e treine" flying red flage were operated, some
Gabotage was attempted, end plesards bearlng Ccsmumist slogans appeared
CONFTMNTTAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTTAL
5
on staticn platforme. Kokutetau heedqusrters, and subeequently the
Netional. Congress of Luduetrial Unione (Sanbetsu), instructed all members
to assist the strikers is ary way possible, although only soattered sym-
pathy relliee end strikes took place.
In dofiance of the cccupation authorities, transportation facilities
soserved for ccupetion peveomel vere deleyed and at leaet one attempt
vas made to halt the moveront of en cecupation car in direct violation
of crderu of Axmy trammportetien euthomitice. The first step taken by the
ScAP Labor Division to hels the atrike vao fruitless. On June 10, when the
chief o? the Divigfon's Labor Reletiens end Edueation Branch advised the
uwnton to coll cf? the ctrike, Kokutetau responded that it hed not ordered
the strtte but thet it woulil ehtsr colloctive bargainins for the purpose
of crdiny it. On the following day the acting chief of the Division.
speaiciny for Soap, oréored the waton to suspend the strike and the govern-
mont to suepend col lective bargaining urtil cormal service vas resumed.
Ho ateo domerded that the govemvoent set up spcedily the dieputes settle-
ment meshinexy stipulcted in tho Publio Corpcoation Labor Rolations Law.
Thie order halted the striks, although Solstetsu took the position that
ite astson vss vobmtoey sni imapized by a desire to settle the issueo
through colleetive borgaining.
Iebor Tesues
SThs tschnfcel iaeve involved in this dispute wes ore of the scope
of the union s right to bargain collestively under the ublic Corporation
Labor Relssione Iay. Sircs the real occesion of the dispute wae lebor
oppesition to the Lay ott progrem ra her than to the mew vorlding schedule,
CONFDENTTAL.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.90)
CORODEIAL
6
however, tho strike raised the deeper issue of the role of goverment
vorkers' unions in the perscamel retrenchmant program.
As already noted, Kokutetou onjoyed collective bargaining rights
denied to moot other government workers' unlons, although the ertent of
the rights hed not yet been tested. In this dispute, the National Rail-
way Corperotion tock the viey that the deternination and enforcement of
the mey vomiking schedule fell in the category of operational matters ex-
2
cluded fron bargainirg.
Tho umica considered the matter an aspect of
romming conditions oub jact to collootive bargeining. The union did not
tumpt to ague tht he diceiplimar diochargee were fllegal, but con-
sidcd tham unjustified in viey of what it charged to bo managomont's
vicleticn of unica righte.
On the first day of the stwike, Kokutetsu laid down three con-
litione for tts formmstion, es follews:
1. Reamplopmemt of thoee disatssed.
2.
No furteor cicmissals.
3.
Collectite bargaining os tie new vorking schedule and
contimmsnor of the old sch dule mtil agreoment was reached.
1. Article 3 of the Public Corporation Lebor Rolations Lew specifies that
"mattors affectiny tho managemert nd oporation of the public corporation
ahall bo excluaed. from collective bargaiing," but pemtte collective
bergairiny and agreerwnte with respect to wages, hours, and working con-
aitiens, vorking mules wed reguletions; overtime pay; holidays and vaca-
tacms matles coneemming diecaolinery setions and priority of prorotions,
demoticas, tranesess, d: schsrese, loy-ofas, rehiring preoticee esd seni-
ority: grievence mechimory; vefety practices; termination date of collec.
tive borgaiuins ugreonent, pensvel ens. ettonsion clouces."
2.
The Corporation cupportrd its intempretasion of the collective bergeining
clave by referenee to rticle 31 of the National Railways Ley , which
permrits the dismtsgal ef eny ployse violating "eny provision of thie
Lav or ony operaticnal vegulntion lei& down by the Japanese National
Rallvays."
CONPIDEPTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.89)
CO22DLNTAL
7
Negotiatlons vore fruitloes wnti! the strile onded. At that point, the
acting chief of the Isbor Division reportedly advised both sides that,
in his opinion, the reorganization cf the government railroads into a
public porporation dia not pecesaarily invalidate the provious agreement
an workivg conlitiore and that, in general the three points laid down by
the urioe might well be handled by collective bargaining. However, apart
frou an egrecment negotiated on June 12 stirulating thas the Corporation
vould dismies no meat than the 66 egloyees already dieoherged, collsotive
bargotning has as ye failed to bring about a settlenent. The Corporation
hao preesed its wiaguess to negotlate certain questlons of working
conlitiens mrising mxder she new worlring sehedule, but not the question
of the nev schedule ihealf. Hesmwhilo the government has been expediting
the cetehlishment o? the disputes settlement machinery specified by Law
in. tho hope thas a wasolutson of the disputo can be effocted thereby. On
ity paih, the vaiom opeeve to have become more rather than less intransi-
seent d to have dmereaset vathes thm decreased the isoues under dispute.
In oxtee ing ats locals beek te work, Dkutetau speeificd that those who
had buen discharged sheula alee reerae ths is duties. Cn Jume 14, moreover,
the waton divected ito looule to regres tho now vorkine cohedule until
agresmsst wes reached. Letest meposts indisate that any prcepecte of
eattlenoat will hinge lergoly cn wessatlen end arbitration, elthough the
reoutelue egumcies ere met yet in beiuy and the unden hes given every
tnds pation of deciring to protrcet rather then to settle the dispute.
Rokuteten's bshevier in the aigovte over the new working sohedule
mmy be vonsidered eu irdication o? sts probeble behavior when the
CONFTTNTTAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
CORFIDEITIAL
8
poraaunel reduction program actually begine. Although the umion was badly
split botween right snd left vings over the propriety of the strike, it
was uaited on the quention of its right to bargain collectively. The
provision of collectivn bargaining rights end of other dieputes settloment
machineny offers chemels tirough which a peaceful resolution of differences
may be scught. In the case of the ratrenchment program, however, the
Table ? Peraonnel Organizatlon Lew specifically forbids any collective
bargaining or grievaace procedure in connection with diemissals. Under
these civeumstences, Kolutetsu hes taken two important steps since the
nteike. On Jiume 17, the unlon filed suit in Tokyo District Court to
provent the dieriegal oi wonicers vithout consultation with the whion,
acguing that the lay-offe required by the Table of Personmel Organization
Law voula violate col lective bargeining provisions of the Publie Corporation
Lsbor Relatione Lew emi of Atfcle 28 of the Japanese Constitution. Second,
ard more in Leeping wth the repoarted mocd of some of its locale, Koltutetsu's
Centrel committee cn June 26 voted 66-4 to continue 1ts staruggle against
Ley-offs by all avoi)sble means end to etrike "when collective bargaining
by the headgusrters of the uuion ruptures.
The extremists fovoring this decieion patently realize that col-
lestive bengaining cunnot prevens cimsissals and therefors aim only to
clouk tapi ulterios mosives behtnd a suitable formula. The mcderates
oppocing ls, however, have favorcd et least a negotiated spplication of
the progrom. Should sho umion be denied any veice in the implementation
of the lay-of? progrme, as reguted by lay, it seeme likely thet the moder-
ste positien would be soriously eopardized and the extrcsiet counsel of
total ospositicn voula he strengchored.
COTFTENTTAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDLNTI.LL
9
Political Issues
The railroad strike and the union's position on the impending
lay-off program -- a position taken elso by other governaent workers
unions -- have accentuated the simultanecus political struggles be-
tween the conservative sovernment and the left-wing parties and
between the Socialist and the Communist Parties as well as their
reepective trade-union syupathizers.
The Yoshida government has minimized the labor issues involved
in the dispute end has paximized its political aspect as a Communist
chellenae to Law, order, tne the position of the government. Accord-
:nyly, the cabinet has balen a strong stand, proposing to strengthen
publse cemurity mensureo ne to foster an over-all anti-Communist
compain auong the political parsies ond the general populace. At
the same time, it hvs done litte to placate labor, and, in considera-
tion of the bases o? Damotratic Liborel Party support, is not likely
to try so do so. Orficial ellusions to the possibility of a stronger
progrean to cope with wnemyloynent have been matched by repeated
pssertions ohat the lay-off program will be enforced as scheduled.
The government's irtransa gent stand peflects its strong position
with regerd to the oecupation authorities, who have hitherto turned down
Yoshida's pleas for a strenger police fovee, Moreover, under the
cconoadc stabilization pregran SCAP orficials have closely supervised
the appropriation and alccation of Japanese lovermaent funds. Since
Yoshica has acceptod respensibility for the stabilization progran, he
is in a ponation to argue that sts success requires the measures he
advocates, and he is doubtless counting for support on growing anti-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
COLFIDENTI.L
10
Cormunist sentiments within the SCAP organization. In the event of
SC.AP refusal to go along vith ria, Yoshida would be able to tranafer
responsibility for the maintenence of public safety and for the im-
plementation of the stabilization progran to SCAp by means as
effective for his purposes as resignation. SCap's position, on the
other hand, is made delicate by the danger that Yoshida, if given
full support, might by accident or design turn an anti-Carmunist cam-
pi ito 3 gener. anti-labor campai. Such a development would
almost certainly undereut SCAP's role as protagonist of organized
Jabor, push most trede unions to the left, and ailitate against polit-
ical. end economic ssbility.
if the Yoshida overnment has, in a sense, thrown down the
Bauntles, tre Communist Party has promptly picked it up. The use
of police action in the strike and the thrcat of stronger policies
have teen cited to confirn Co.uunist  redictions that the "Fascist"
covernment, rould seek to repress "popular movenents."1 The possibility
of investigation of the strike by the Examination Conmittee, which has
two Ccraurists as mombers, has been welcomed as a chance to "expose
those wao are planning to destrey Japan." The party has, of course,
repeatedly lauded the "heroic strugle" of the railroad workers.
However, the lesson invariably drawn from the strike is that the
railroad dispute mist be integrated vith the mass anti-government
The fact that only three Communist representatives were on the
floor st the final vote on the Table of Fersonnel Organization
bill has been adduced as evidence that the party in fact desired
enactment of the law as an aid tovward the generation of "popular
movements" against the government.
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
struggle that the party is seeking to promote by supporting and
coordinating the "struggles" of all aggrieved elements in the popu-
lace. The conclusions of the party's Central Conmittee meeting on
June 19 made it clear that, although the trede unions are conaidered
now as always the vanguard and carri.ers of the revolutionary novement,
Communist labor activities are to be conducted in such a way as to
consolidate the party's position not only within but also outside of
the trade uniona. Perhaps the best indication of Communist labor
policy is contained in the program announced by the Sanbetsu on June
28, which calls for an "industrial defense" struggle organized on the
local workshop level, expandcd to emorace basic industries on a
regional level, and culrinating in a national political struggle of
"progressive capitalists, citizens and farmers" against the government.
The Socialist. Party has suffered, as usual, the difficulties
of pursuing an anti-Conmunist course vwhile sharing with the Communists
the role of political oppcsition to the conservative government and
spokesman for labor interests. Socialist statements have placed about
equal blame on the government and on the Coamunists for the railroad
strike, echoing the position taken b the Kokutetsu Democratization
Lcague. However, the party and its supporting labor factions have
had little to offer in advocating the use of collective bargaining
to implement the retrenchment program and to prevent any consequent
deterioration of working conditions. Latest policy statements indi-
cate some stiffening of position: while continuing to oppose "regional
strikes" and "destructive" Communist tactics, the party now counsels
rejection of discharge notices, followed by collective bargaining on
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
1
CONFIDENTIAL
a workshop basis. It evidently hopes that these means may forestall
execution of the retrenchment program and extremist labor activities
and make possible the rescission or modification of the program at
a special Diet session, which the party desires to have convened
at the earliest possible moment.
Conclusions
The railroad strike, fostered by Communist influences and
halted by SCAP order, was a foretaste of labor reaction to the govern-
ment personnel retrenchment program required by lan. The labor issue
in the dispute was one of the scope of the union's collective bargain-
ing rights in a change of working schedules that the union construed
as a forerunner of the lay-off program. This issue is subject to
settlement by mediation or arbitration in the event of failure of
collective bargaining. Apparently no such meens will be available in
the lay-off program, since negotiations with the union are specifically
enjoined by the Table of Personnel Organization Law, which the govern-
ment expressly intends to enforce to the letter. The Communist leader-
ship of Kokutetsu has coanitted the union to strike to prevent the im-
plementation of the program. A sirilar course has been adopted by
other government workers' uniors, most of which are under Communist
influence and all of which are withcut effective legal means of recourse.
Both the Yoshida government and the Communists seek to profit
from this situation. The government's primary reaction to the strike
and to the threat of further labor rouble has taken a forceful anti-
Communist direction, witn special reference to stronger public safety
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFILDATIAL
s
measures. In the event of large-scale labor action, it is certainly
questionable whether police forces as constituted at present would
be effective without the moral or physical aid of the occupation.
Avoidance of SCAP intervention woulá seem to require a rapid change
in the police organizaticn. The darger of this course lies not so
much in reorganization itself as in the extent to which Yoshida might
be able to create the impression of full SCAP supnort for his position
and to use the police not only against the Communists but also against
organized labor as a whole. Such a development would almost certainly
push the trade unions to the left and militate against political and
economic stability.
On the other hand, it way well be the Ccmmunist design to seek
to involve the occupation further in labor disputes and to align it
fully on the side cf the conservative government. Such involvement,
whether by force or by fiat, would serve Coanunist purposes by pro-
longing and enhancing the tension and turmoil in which the party
could best continue its elforts to consolidate its position in labor,
without bringing about a revolutionary situation, which, by all
evidence, it does not yet desire. The party's major problem is that
of combinin? vigorous laoor activities vith the expansion of its
national support. Solution of this problem would be facilitated by
a clear-cut and far-reaching division of the nation into Right and
Left in which now moderate leftist elements would be drawn to the
extreme Left or at least alienated from the Right and from the occu-
pation. Suppression of the Communist Party would, of course, scare
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
COLFIDENTIAL
off much of its potential national supncrt, but mould solve neither
the probler of Conmunist influence in labor nor that of the restive-
ness of organized labor as a whole.
A general improvenent in economic conditions would, of course,
fundamentally undercut the Cocunist progran and ive less cause for
the otentially risky anti-Corrunist compaign of the Right. Short
of that, however, evidence tnat legitirate labor interests vill be
protected, as by the use of conciliatory means in impleme:ting the
lay-off progran, would go far to strengthen the position of the anti-
Conmunist elerents in the trade unions. Otherwise, extensive police
action may be expectei to accelerate the polarization process and to
increase the prospect of a showdoun beiween light and Left.
COMFTJEITAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
RAF
TO
FE-Mr. Alligón
HL
NA - Mr. Bond
FROM :
NA - Mr. Green mmqu
ALD
2 2 1949
SUBJECT:
Developments in Japanese Strike Situation
DIRECTOR
/fl
Ariment of Stake
Today's radio intercepts from Tokyo carry two items of
erest bearing on the mass dismissals of Government workers.
The first 1s & Kyodo renort that the dismissal of 17 leftist
members of the Central Strike Policy Committee of the Government
Railway Workers Union has resulted in "bresking the back" of the
long-threatened railway strike. Although sectional disturbances
are anticipated during the next few weeks, the denger of an organ-
ized strike is viewed by Kyodo as having passed away completely.
The second intercept contains the text of a noteworthy speech
by Yoshida - noteworthy for the fect that it departs from the re-
cent Yoshida line of threatening left-wing troublemakers in Govern-0
ment unions with sharp police counter-measures. In this speech, 6
Yoshida, in language strongly smacking of SCAP draftmanship, de-
nounces the leftist labor trouble-makers but goes on to enjdin
the nation to be calm. Yoshida endeavors to prove how the stabil-
ization program will in the long run benefit the workers and how O
adequate measures (unemployment insurance, separation allowances, 4
public works program) are being taken to meet short-term unemploy-5
ment resulting from stehilizetion measures. Nowhere does Yoshida
mention strong-arm measures to cope with strikers. Nowhere is
7
the word police mentioned.
2
Interpretation: On the basis of the scant information avail-
able, there is reason to suspect that Yoshida wes persuaded by
4
SCAP during the recent series of Yoshida-SCAP conversations (one 6
of them attended by the Emperor) to desist from his insistence on
strengthening the police as & meens of coping with labor unrest
and, in general, to pursue a less vigorous line toward labor. In
return, Yoshide may have been given the green light to proceed
with his plan to use the lay-off program as a means of dismissin 
the principal troublemakers from the Government unions. YoshidaS
may also have received intimations that limited counterpart funds
might be diverted to the payment of unemnloyment relief and/or
that the Shoup Mission is to recommend some tax relief. Either
力
measure would, of course, enhance Yoshida's nosition with the
electorate. I hasten to add that the above is only a conjecture.
5045
!as to the true nature of what appears to be quite clearly an un-
derstanding reached between Yoshida and MacArthur as a result pf
their several recent talks.
7
7-2149
FE:NA:MGreen:aw

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.91)
STANDAND FORNT O
ASSISTANT SE
OffICE Memorandum (UNITED STATER, GOVERNmeNT
to : General Hilldring
FROM : Mr. Rudlin 
susJEcT: Report of "Slave Labor" in Japan.
Attached herewith for your approval is a draft
cable to SCAP on the above subject.
War Department conourrence has been obtained
to this proposed cable (Major Fancher, Civil Affairs
Division).
Attachment.
Mm. Badhin phoned N. D and
rlimed amenlment. 30/7. To
br dip. by Fanchu. asts
AH-921
