894.504 Economic Matters., Japan, Labor., April 26, 1945 - November 16, 1949 (File 1782), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.504-1782-1   Pages: 326   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.504-economic-matters-japan-7/894.504%20Economic%20Matters.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Labor.%2C%20April%2026%2C%201945%20-%20November%2016%2C%201949%201782-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
GEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
JUN 9 1946
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF COMMERGIL POLIGY
AND HEALTH AFFAIRS-ILH
Unrestricted
AMERICAN LEGATION
MA: 1+ 1945
Bern, April 26, 1945.
No. 11588.
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
OMMODITIES DIVISION
Subject: Economic Press - Japan.
DC/R
2
Via sirmail pouch.
DISTRIBUTION
MAY 5 1945
OFFICE
SERVICES
258
EVED
04/4-2645
WAR AREAS
ECONOMIC DIVISION
1945
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The American . inister in urn nas the honor to report the
followin information obtained from the press in regard to
economic conaitions in Japan.
Tachricnten fuer Aussenhandel, berlin, 20th March. Mg.
C
Tokyo. Accoroing to the "Toyo Keizai", the employment situation
894.
in 1944 was characterized by tne organized employment of student
and school pupils. un I th January, the restriction of the
employment of stuaents to four months annually was revoked so
that students end pupils may now be mopilized for the entire year
Previous to that date, school pupils could be mobilized only
from the third class in high school upward, whereas now the first
and second high school classes and the seventh and eighth years
of elementary schools are included in the mobilization. Millions
of additional workers were obtained through the change-over from
temporary to permanent employment. Even these mobilization
measures, however, did not completely cover the demand for labor
and in November 1944, the mobilization was extended to include
pupils in evening schools. By a decree published in August, the
regulstions on the employment of female labor were tightened; the
changing of places of work was made more difficuit; the Women's
Labcr corps was strengthened and changed from a private to a
public organization so that refusal to work is now pun sh ble; and
provision was made for the transfer of incompletely oupted
workers to other places of work, for example, from offooto
armament plants.  From 1st February 1945, the mobilizaion of
5
women
DOR - E
rm
e
mm
DTO  TO 

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
women was extended to include unmarried women, married women
whose husbands are not living in the household and ohildless
women up to 40 years of age.
Nachrichten fuer nussenhandel, Berlin, lst February.
Accordin: to the "Oriental bconomist", large industrial firms
and mines in northern China are encountering increasing diffi-
culties ir obtainin adequate labor. The supply of labor from
other istricts has also considerably decreased in Manohukm
Accorcin to figures releasen y tr Inaustrial Labor Assooiation
the number of workers who mi rated from northern China to
Manchukuo amounted to 370, o ir he first half of 1944 as
compared to almost 75c,0o in the first half of 1943. The number
of hinese workers sent to nchukuo in 1944 was 40 peroent below
schedule. In addition to thi: very considerable quantitative
decrcase, a crease in the uality  the exported labor was
also otserved.
Nachrichten fuer xusseahaneel, Lerlin, 1st February.
Followin the announcement uy enlai fficials of forthooming
inportent decisions with recurc to tns distribution of eleotrioity
und fuels to inmu tries,  is expected that industrial activity
will soon revive. As  result  the interruption of the distri-
bution of clectricity, inaustry  Shanghai has been very consi-
derably handicapped un: num rous fuctorles have been closed.
This development had  very aisedvintugeous effect on the general
industrinl situation un 1ed to  eneral increase in prices of
man factures. The nen aiitriction f electricity to industry
will be ace uce din to  importerce of the plants whereby
the most ravore industrius u their nonthly collective allotme
are as tollows: Sto plts  the textile industry 1 million
kilowatt hours, 500 pi nts 1 tne chemical industry 600, 000
kilowatt nours, 200 1ants f the food industry 320,000 kilowatt
hours, 1,le lnt f the machine industry 300,000 kilowatt
hours, ice facta ies 12,c0o kilowatt hours and other industrial
firms 12,000 to 20, 00c kilowatt hours. A total of 2.4 million
kilowatt hours of lectricity is to be cistributed to 2,700
registered factories.
Original and hectogreph to the Departnent.
oR
One copy to Embassy, London.
File No. 350.
HL/JPR/je

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
ARD PORM NO. 64
TO
ILH - Mr. Miiken
DATE: July 14, 1945
FROM
ILH - Mr. Sullivan
Aile
SUBJECT:
Labor Policy of Military Government in Japan
A preliminary draft of CAD 222a, entitled Japani
Economic Policies During Military Occupation. contained
the following section under the heading "Labor".
With a view to encouraging the development
of democratic procedures and institutions in
Japan, any laws or regulations which hinder the
894.504/7-1445
revival and growth of a free labor movement should
be abrogated. Laws or regulations which have the
effect of depressing wages to an artificially low
level, and which might tend to give Japan an un-
fair competitive advantage in world markets,
should also be abrogated. Existing controls and
legislation regarding employment exchanges, social
security benefits, and other social services
should be maintained in so far as practicable.
The military occupation authorities should
encourage the development of a democratic labor
movement. Positive action might take the form
of recognizing the rights of labor groups to
organize and bargain collectively and of utilis-
ing the services of labor organizations in so far
as possible in problems of labor recruitment and
administration.
Mr. Willcox did not agree with certain implications
of the section, and at a conference on May 22 attended by
Messrs. Haley, Willcox, Plank and myself, it was rewritten
C
to read as follows:
IS
With a view to encouraging the development
A
of democratic procedures and institutions in
Japan, any laws or regulations which hinder the
revival and growth of a free labor movement
should be abrogated, and recognition should be
given to the right of labor to organize and to
bargain collectively. Existing practices, controls
and legislation regarding employment exchanges,
social security benefits, and other social services
should be maintained in so far as practicable.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
A suggested wording of a clause in the SwnCC paper
recommending the utilization of labor organizations by
Military Government officers is as follows:
Where conditions warrant Military Government
should give positive encouragement to labor
organizations by util1zing their services in
problems of labor recruitment and administra-
tion.
This sentence might be added on to Section IV
Recommendations, either as part of B2a (page 1? of pre-
liminary draft), or at the very end under B4c (page 21).
Another possible location would be to place 1t under
"Basic Policy," A2 (page 14), but this might give it more
emphasis then is wise, and it would have to be repeated
under B, Recommendations.
SECRET

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
MEMORANDUM
July 26, 1945
X
(R:
0-18-48
JAPAN
THE CIVILIAN VOLUNTEER COMBAT CORPS AS AN INSTRUMENT
OF LABOR CONTROL
Summary
894.504/7-2645
Labor difficulties seem to be a major preoccu-
pation of the Japanese Government today. It may not
be going too far to state that war weariness, hunger
and a lethargy induced by a growing conviction of im-
pending defeat on the part of many of the workers of
Japan seems to have seriously retarded production and
the speed of repair of factories damaged by bombings
and shellings. Patriotic propaganda and new organi-
zational methods are now being developed on a large
scale in the struggle to maintain morale and produc-
tion. The "Civilian Volunteer Combat Corps" appears
to be the technique that will be used more and more
in this battle on the home front because of the larger
degree of control that can be exercised over members
of these units than over members of the less formally
organized "Civilian Volunteer Corps."
FILED
S5
2
一
f
U1
C
ind
7
2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
JAPAN
THE CIVILIAN VOLUNTEER COMBAT CORPS AS AN INSTRUMENT
OF LABOR CONTROL.
Recent broadcasts from Japan have shed further light
on the specific purposes to which the "Combat" sections
of the recently organized Civilian Volunteer Corps are
to be put. In an earlier report it was stated that labor
mobilization appeared to be the chief objective of this
move. 1/ Nothing that has appeared since then would
seem to call for a change in the earlier interpretation,
in spite of the constant repetition of the combat poten-
tialities of the organization. In fact the units currently
being organized within the Civilian Volunteer Corps,
which are designated "Civilian (or People's) Volunteer
Combat Corps," are clearly designed to be militarily
controlled shock-workers organizations in those branches
of economic activity considered to be most vital and at
the same time most severely threatened by our air and
naval offensive.
The Combat Corps were formally sanctioned on June 22
under the "Volunteer Military Service Law" which was
passed "in order to be able to call the members of the
Civilian Volunteer Corps to the colors and make them
soldiers." 2/ In explaining the purpose of the new law
it was stated the former conscription law was unsatis-
factory as it had "the drawback of depriving the very
young, the women, and those people who have already been
exempted from compulsory military service, of the privi-
lege of participating in the glorious duties of the de-
cisive war on the Imperial Land." 3/ Males between the
ages of 60 and 15 and females from 40 down to 17 years
were declared eligible for service in these "combat"
units, thus narrowing somewhat the age limits that had
been set for members of the Civilian Volunteer Corps
which were from 65 to 15 for men and 45 to 15 for women. 4/
While much stress was laid upon the term "combat" in the
earlier broadcasts, and the public was told that the
combination of soldier-worker was traditional in Japan,
again and again emphasis was laid upon the primary
importance
1/
Recent Steps in Labor Mobilization in Japan, June 7, 1945.
21
F.C.C. Daily Reports, July 6, 1945.
Ibid.
4/
F.C.C. Daily Report, June 22, 1945.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
importance of the productive function, and prospective
members of the combat corps were told they must remain
at their jobs until the enemy reached the very doors
of their factories or shops, unless ordered to leave.
If the enemy arrived they were to battle to save their
places of work, and their duty then was "not to be
taken alive or to die dishonorably." 5/ Other factors
that indicated a lack of serious military intent, in
contrast to the steps taken in Germany in organizing
the Volkssturm, were seen in the admitted lack of in-
tent to provide uniforms or weapons for combat corps
members, at least in the near future, as well as in
the apparent unwillingness to sacrifice vital working
time for the purpose of furnishing military training
for the members of the corps.
The details made available in connection with the
recently announced formation of the first "combat corps"
now makes it possible to state more confidently than
previously that labor mobilization in the most strategic
industries under semi-military discipline is the special
purpose of this move. This first unit,still in process
of organization, is the Railway Civilian Volunteer
Combat Corps. Some of the announced details of its
structure are as follows: (1) The Commander will be
under the control of the Chief of the Army General Staff, 6/
hence full military control seems assured. (2) Not only
are the employees of the State and private railways
affected, but also those concerned with railway vehicle
manufacturing companies, railway engineering companies,
rail control associations, etc. 7/ (3) "The work of
the members of the corps will consist of their usual
daily duties, although there may develop a situation
where they will have to engage in actual fighting." 8/
(4) Members of the corps may continue to live at home
and will be paid the same salary as heretofore, but
"by being mobilized . . . officials and employees of
the State Railways . . . become members of the Imperial
Army and thus it is expected that an adjustment and im-
provement of transportation will be effected. 9/
Discipline,
F.C.C. Daily Report, June 25, 1945.
F.C.C. Daily Report, July 7, 1945.
Ib1d
Ibid
9
Ibid

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
Discipline, an earlier report stated, will be of a mili-
tary nature but not as severe as in the case of the regu-
lar army since punishment will not be determined by army
court martial, "but will be handled leniently." 10/
Evidence that aircraft product workers will also
soon be formed into "combat units" is found in a Tokyo
Mainichi editorial of July 16, which expressed the "full
support of the Nation" for the Government's aircraft
production policy as explained by Lt. General Ando,
Director of the Air Army Bureau of the Munitions Industry.
The paper attached special significance to Ando's words
that "those directly affiliated with the work of aircraft
production should be organized as a combat unit of the
Civilian Volunteer Corps, namely, the soldiers of His
Imperial Majesty the Emperor." The Mainichi urged the
Government to take this step "in order to assure maximum
efficiency in the work of the munitions aircraft produc-
tion." 11/ Another field in which a "combat corps" may
soon be organized is that of road transportation. The
army has taken charge of what they call "land express
transportation" and has set up a "Land Express Adminis-
tration" under the direction of Lt. General Masao
Yoshizumi. All automobiles, trucks, horse, ox and hand
carts have been placed under the control of this new
agency, and the director has intimated his desire to
set up a "combat corps" in this line of effort. 12/
Some speculation seems warranted upon how enthu-
siastically the people of Japan have received these
mobilization edicts. Complaints regarding labor ab-
senteeism and the unauthorized evacuation of what is
called the "essential wartime personnel" from the bombed
cities have been filtering through for some time now.
Domei recently quoted Navy Vice Minister Takeo Tada as
having stated in a speech to employees of the Navy
Ministry that the Government was encountering "both wil-
ful neglect of duty and resentment." 13/ Premier Suzuki
also is reported by Domei as having made a tour of
Japanese aircraft factories "to encourage the workers." 14/
Other statements by high Government officials dwell
constantly and heavily on the importance of everyone
doing
10/
F.C.C. Da1ly Report, June 13, 1945.
11
F.C.C. Daily Report, July 16, 1945.
12/
F.C.C. Daily Report, July 19, 1945.
13
New York Times, July 23, 1945.
14/
Ibid.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
doing his duty, labor limitations being stressed as the
bottleneck in the problems of transportation and pro-
duction. 15/ Such statements undoubtedly oversimplify
the production problem of war-ravaged and blockaded
Japan today, but need not be entirely disregarded on that
account. An editorial in the July 23 Tokyo Asahi "sharply
admonished"the Japanese Government to take steps at once
to provide improved facilities for war production work,
and to establish better conditions for the workers. 16/
Moreover, we find the Government being publicly urged to
take more drastic steps in mobilization. The Mainichi
editorial is one example of this. A long article by Iichiro
Tokutomi, dean of Japanese journalists and an aggressive
Nationalist, entitled "The Way to Victory in the Homeland
Battle" which was transmitted by Domei in Romaii to G.E.A.
on July 12 and 13 is another. This article called for
all munitions factories to be commanded by the Army, with
workers regarded as working soldiers. In fact Tokutomi
advocated turning all affairs relating to agriculture,
commerce and industry into the hands of the army. 17/
In view of all existing circumstances one cannot but be-
lieve that such promptings are inspired by the extreme
nationalistic government and army clique, and that they
are either paving the way for further controls or are
in the nature of trial balloons for testing public re-
action.
15 See articles by Transportation Minister Kohiyama and
Lt. Gen. Masso Yoshizumi in FCC, Daily Report, July 19,
1945.
16/
New York Times, July 24, 1945.
12
F.C.C. Daily Report, July 12-13, 1945.
9F
ILH:PBSuflivan:md
7/26/451H

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
0.E.M
MEMORANDUM
August 9, 1945
JAPAN: CURRENT E ERGENCY LABOR CONTROL MEASURES
On the morning of July 27 Tokyo broadcast a general
statement to the eifect that a readjustment of enterprises
was necessary in order to cope with the problems of the
expected invasion of Japan, and that as a result of studies
8
by various Ministries, certain neasures arfecting the
394.504/8-945
utilization of labor would speedily materialize. 1/ Since
that time a number of significant developments affecting
manpower and labor have been reported, the outstanding
ones of which are enunerated below.
1. Conscription and Control of the Skilled Labor
The lunitions and Welfare Ministries have
announced a new scheme through which the more highly
skilled workers will be controlled. This plan calls for
the organization of "lechnicians Task Units" which will
be under th: orders o: the industrial "Control Associations"
and other control groups. Individuals who have had any
technical experience may be conscripted into these units
and transferred fro. factory to factory or one locality
to another as necessity deterines. Details of the law
make it quite clear that this is a move in the direction
of ensuring continuin control over laborers whose homes
or work places have been destroyed in order to prevent
either their disappearance or any anpreciable lapse of
ti..e before reassignment to other enterprises. In order
to implement this the contrel hedies rather than the
individual factories are made responsible for the allow-
CS/V
ances ani housin: or the members of the units. 2/ This
move, it might be noted, constitutes a second major step
along this line, the first having been the promulgation
on May 26 o the "Law Pertaining to Acutely Vital Affairs
of War Time Essential Personnel", 3/ under which all
factory wor ers whose shops were destroyed were compelled
under penalties to register vith the authorities for job
reassignment.
2. L'arine
1/
CC Daily Report: July 28, 1945.
('
2/
Ibid
0
3
See co...ments by writer entitled "Recent Steps in Labor
Hobilization in Japan", June 7, 1945.
3
一
4
5

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
2. Marine Combat Corps
A Shipping Volunteer Combat Corps, attached
to the Navy, and embracing all of the nation's seamen
has been organized. The unit of organization is the crew
of each ship, and each unit will be designated by the name
of the ship. The object, as given by Domei, "is to give
the status and honor of volunteer soldiers (sic) to men
in the maritime service". 4/ Another object may be dis-
cerned from portions of a radio speech made by Director
Hoshina of the Naval Affairs Bureau of the Navy Ministry,
in which he stated "If there should be any act unbecoming
a Japanese seanan, such as refusal to board ships or a
walk-out fron shins, such seamen will be strictly punished
under military regulations". 5/ It is worth recalling
that the Seamens Union prior to 1939 was one of the most
powerful unions in Japan, e.abracing over 90' of all sea-
farers. Group resistance could be developed here more
easily than in any other section of Japanese labor.
3. Decentralization of Labor Controls
The Welfare Ministry, in keeping with the
overall governnent policy or decentralization of func-
tions, has decided upon a wholesale transfer of its
orficial powers to various regional authorities. The
transfer at this time affects 115 separate functions.
including the powers based on the National Labor Mobil-
ization Act and other laws pertaining to labor service.
This move, it is stated, "means that a mobile distri-
bution of labor may be expected, as well as a pronotion
of policies to cope with actual conditions in each
district". 6/ A detailed list or the functions to be
transferred are included.
4. Railway Coabat Corps Inaugural
The Railway Conbat Corps, the first combat
unit organized under the Volunteer Military Service Law,
held an inaugural ceremony at the grounds in front of
the Imperial Palace on August first. Director General
Horiki
4/
CC Daily Report: August 2, 1945
21
Ibid
6/
FCC Daily Report: July 30, 1945

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Horiki of the General Railway Bureau, who is commander
of the Corps, read a proclamation in which the importance
of the functions of the Corps and the fact that the
members were bound by strict military discipline were
stressed. 2/
Conclusion
The amount of time iven by the Tokyo radio to
problens concerning labor continues to be a surprise.
Complaints re arding the attitude or labor and of the
lac: of erficiency of the government's labor controls are
constantly being voiced. A recent Yomiuri-Hochi editorial
perhaps suns up the attitude of many of these complaints
when it says:  "As the key of all war effort, labor and
its proper distribution comes first in order for the ad-
ministration to tac:le." 8/ The real explanation of this
"labor problen" is undoubtedly the great damage that our
forces have wrou it, damage that has materially reduced
the output of munitions and war sunplies, and the tasks
involved in clearing, reconstructing and industry dis-
porsal are so great that a real shortage or manpower is
being felt. Further complicating and confusing the situ-
ation is the fact that in the areas of greatest destruction
many of the more s:illed are either not employed or are
performing unskilled tasks. In order to try to solve
this problem labor conscription and regimentation schemes
of various inds are bein: worked out. It is probable
that be:ore long all Japanese workers will be carrying
out their duties under some for.. of military control and
subject to direct and i mediate military discipline.
rCc Daily eport: Au ust 2, 1945.
FCc Daily Report: August 1, 1o45.
ILH:PBsullivan:nd
8/9/45

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
894.504/1C-1745
FOREIGN ECO:OMI、ADMINISTRATION
MEMORANDUM
E. B. Lyon
17 1945
DATE:
Foreign Activity Correlation
TO:
State Department
Constance G. Gaynor, Chief,
FROM:
Project Control Staff
XSCEEXK:
Attached for your use are conies of the two following FEA Reports:
XR
894.504/
L-2: "orking Conditions in Japan Cther Than Tages and Hours.
EA-17: Administration of the Property of Imperial Household in Japan.
OF FOREA
OCT 2X1945
BEW L91

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
LM-2
CONFIDENTIAL
286
Copy No.
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
WORKING CONDIT IONS OTHER THAN
WAGES AND HOURS IN JAPAN
Special attention is called to the fact that this document was
substantially completed prior to the surrender of Japan. Persons
using this document are cautioned that its reccmmendations were
written prior to the acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration and
the Instrument of Surrender. All reccmmendations must, accardingly,
be critically examined in the light of current U.S. policy.
September 1945
UURULN
16007 Cover

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
1
I. SULIARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
2
A. Conditions Expeoted to Confront Military Government
2
B. Concern of Liilitary Government with Working Conditions
4
C. Recommended Program for Military Government
5
0
I1. GENERAL INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND SAFETY PROTECTION
9
力
A. Factories and Factory Dormitories
9
1. General Description
9
2. Prewar Protection
10
3. Wartime Developments
13
4. Problems for Military Government
15
B. Lines
16
1. General Descriptior
16
2. Prewar Protection
17
3. Wartime Developments
18
4. Problems for Military Government
20
C. Merchant Marine
21
1. General Description
21
2. Prewar Protoction
21
3. Wartime Developments
22
4. Problems for Military Government
23
III. SPECIAL FROTECTION FOR HOLEN AND CHILDREN
24
A. Special Protection for Women
24
1. Prewar Protection
24
2. Wartime Developments
26
3. Problems for Military Government
27
(continued on next page)
CONFIDENTIAL
18-007 P1 of
59

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Table of Contents. continued:
B. Speoial Protection for Children
28
1. Prowar Protoction
28
a. Minimum Age Logislation
28
b. Rogulations Governing Apprenticeship
29
2. Wartime Developments
30
3. Problems for Military Government
31
IV. LDUSTRLAL DISCIPLINE AND THOUGHT CONTROL
33
A. Prewar History
33
B. Wartime Developments
34
C. Problems for Military Government
35
V. APPENDIX: INDEX TO LEGISLATION GOVERNI G NURKING CONDITIONS 38
Factory Act
39
Ordinanoe for the Administration of the Factory Act
41
Regulations for the Administration of the Factory 4ct
43
Regulations Concerning Accident Prevention and Eygione
45
Regulations for Dormitories Attached to Fautories
46
Mining Act
48
Mining Act Amendment hot
48
Regulations for the Employment and Felief of iners
50
Ordinances to Amend the Regulations for the Employment
and Relief of biners
51
Aot Respecting Seamen
53
Ordinances Supplementing the Act Respectiny, Seamen
54
Act Concerning the Minimum Age for Industrial Employment
56
Act Concerning the Prevention of the Ill-treatment
of Children
56
Ordinance Respecting the Larking of eight on Heavy
Packages
57

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
OWFIDEWTIAL
INTRODUCTIOCN
This report describes prewar and wartime working
conditions in Japanese industry. and makes recommendations
for action by Military Government with respect to working
conditions in Japan during occupation.
For the purposes of this report, "working conditions"
has been taken to mean safety, bygiene, and industrial
discipline. Wages and hours are not discussed.
Three main segments of Japanese industry are covered
in this report:
A. Factories (with or without attached dormitories);
B. Mines;
C. Merchant marine.
In commerce, transport, government, and the service
occupatic., workin conditions were largely unregulated before
the war and there is little infcrmation available which would
be helpful to Military Government. These industries are
therefore covered only indirectly, as, for example, in the
diecussion of special Jegislation or the protection of woman
and children.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-007 P3 bu

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
CHAPTER I
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Conditions Expected to Confront Military Governnent
Even before the war, working conditions in Japanese industry
and commerce were inferior to those in most lestern countries,
although they were in general better than those in China and some
parts of the East. The mining and cannery industries were among
the worst with respect to standards of hygiene and safety, but in
neerly every industry conditions in certain establishments fell
bolow minimun standards. working conditions also varied by group.
with imported horean laborers usually most disadvantaged. In the
cuse of women and children, working conditions were of special
importance because of the prevalence of the dormitory system, under
which most of the time of the laborer, both during and after work-
ing hours, was spent in the conpound. Conditions in the dormitories,
while often representing an improvement over the intense poverty of
the household which had been compelled to indenture its daughters to
the factory, did not provide an adequate standard of living. This
was also true of the lar e number of household enterprises in which
women, children, and old people were employed for long hours at low
wages, and which were usually exempt from any legal controls.
Legisletion for the protection of the worker existed in
detailed form, but standaris were generally low, coverage was
restricted, factory inspection was inadequate, and many loopholes,
ambiguities and exceptions vitiated the laws and their enforcemont.
In the absence of economic pressures for improvement, half-hearted
efforts at enforcement by the governmert were not likely to meet
with much suocess. Enforcement of the legislation in question was
under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Social Affairs and the
Mines Inspection Bureau, both in the Department of Home Affairs
(Department of the Interior). 1 These agencies were not adequately
staffed, and many violations went unreported. Furthermore, in
order to prosecute an employer for violation of the law, represen-
tatives of these bureaus had to work through the local police, and
the enforcement machinery frequently broke dowm at this level.
Department of Welfare, and relevant functions of the Bureau
of Social Affairs were taken over oy the bureau of Labor in
the Department of Welfare.
10-007 P4 bu

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
For a variety of reasons, enployees were able to contribute
little to the enforcement of legal requirements for safety and
hygiene, and virtually nothing to the promotion of higher legal
standards. Fear of losing
employment was a constant deterrent
to independent action on the part of Japanese workers until well
into the 1930s, but econonic pressure was probably less important
than other forms of social and political oontrol. Religion, educa-
tion, and the press systematically indootrinated the Japanese
worker with anti-democratic ideas, and taught him to regard mili-
tary aggression as the only means of bettering his econonic situa-
tion. Employae activities were closely supervised to insure their
following the official ideological patterns, and this supervision
was of course facilitated by the dormitory system. In addition,
an intensive police campaign was oarried on during the l930s to
break up any labor unions or other organizations unwilling to hew
to the ofricial line on social and political problems.  By such
means independent thought and action were stifled, and the acoopt-
ance of unnecessarily low standards of safety, hygiene, and comfort
perpotuated.
The prevalence of undesirable working conditions in prewar
Japen was thus due in part to the inadequate character of the
existing legislation and of its enforcement by the government, and
in part to the measures taken to prevent effective action on the
part of Japanese workers for the improvement of these conditions.
As a result of the wer, the working conditions of the Japan-
ose laborer deteriorated considerably. A good deal of the proteo-
tive legislation was suspended or abrogated, and the factory and
mine inspection staff reduced in numbers. In the intense drive for
production at all costs, safety devices were neglected, and even
the pre-war hygiene standards were not maintained. where food or
living quarters were supplied by the workers themselves, the decline
in quality of some wartime goods and the unavailability of others
adversely affected the standard of living, and this was equally
true of conditions in lunchrooms and dormitories provided by manage-
ment. The small shops, which were not covered by the factory legis-
lation continued to have the worst working conditions, and when the
large war plants are shut down at the end of hostilities, are likely
to employ a proportionately larger number of the industrial labor
force than before the war. Women were absorted in increasing numbers
into heavy industries unsuited for them and often without the proper
safeguards. There was a sharp increase in the number of the most
poorly troated group of all, the imported Korean workers. In addition,
the extensive air-raid and bombardment damage inflicted on factories
and workers' dormitorios and barracks, brought discomfort, disorgan-
ization, and danger. By the close of the wer, the Japanese laborer
was probably working under worse conditions than for many decades.
1 See Civil Affairs Guide, Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining
in Japan.
18·007 P5 bu

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
To bring about acceptance of suoh working conditions, the
Japanese government utilized both persuasive and coercive measures.
Persuasive measures included an intensifioation of propaganda in
press and radio, supplemented by a morale-building program of enter-
tainments, pilgrimages, and other group activities. The prinoipa!
coercive measures taken were passage of the Factory and Workshop
Supervision Act and drastio revision of the Peace Preservation Aot.
The Factory and iorkahop Supervision Aot was passed in 1944 and
reflected the failure of persuasive measures to secure the desired
degree of oooperation from the working population. By establishing
a rigid system of in-plant discipline, this act virtually put
industrial workers under martial law. The system was used in mines
as well as in all "vital" factories. The Peace Preservation Act,
whioh had long been used as a basis for police raids on meetings
of labor unions and other non-conformist organizations, and to
justify seizing and holaing the leaders of such organizations, was
amended in l94l to permit the application of the death penalty to
anyone belonging to any organization which advooated a "ohange in
the national polity"--a phrase which covered every aspeot of national
political and economio life. Longthening of the workday and inoreased
use of dormitories, by simplifying the rogimentation of omployees,
made both persuasive and coercive measures more effective than they
would otherwise have been.
The effect of Japan's defeat on employment may cause further
deterioration in working conditions, because the individual employee
has been rendered helpless by govornment measures, and employers may
be expected to take full advantage of this helplessness. The Japan-
ese worker may be understandably restive if further deterioration
ooours.
B. Conoern of Military Government with Working Conditions
In the early period of occupation, Lilitary Government will,
in general, not conoern itself with the working conditions of the
Japanese laborer, with two exceptions. In cases where Military
Government hires Japanese labor directly or where it operates
industrial establishments direotly, e.g., government railways,
tobaoco ouring, it will be necessary for Military Government to
fix the working oonditions of its employees. Seoondly, it will be
a responsibility of Military Government immediately to wipe out any
government regulations which perpetuate a system of industrial
disoipline contrary to domooratic practice or preventing the growth
of demooratio ideas and organizations.
As the ocoupation continues, Military Government will be
concerned to see that the operation of industries essential to mil-
itary operations and security not be interrupted and that labor
disputes in goneral be kept to a minimum. In view of the expected
16- 007 P6bu

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
mass unemployment and the consequently weak bargaining. position of
labor, it is not expected that many disputes or strikes will ooour
as a result of poor working conditions. However, where stoppages
ocour or are likely to ooour as a result of intolerable conditions,
Military Government will be compelled to concern itself with work-
ing conditions of laborers under private enployers.
From the long-run point of view, Lilitary Government will be
desirous of enlisting the support and cooperation of the laboring
population. Any gestures made or measures taken by Military Govern-
ment towards the improvement of working conditions, or at least the
reestablishment of pre-war conditions, will probably be helpful in
induciny labor support and convincing the Japanese publio that
cooperation with bilitary Government is desirable.
Finally, to a small extont it may be possible to help allev-
iate the mass unemployment whioh will oocur by means of regulations
restricting employment of wonen and children, and distributing the
available jobs as far as possible among the heads of fanilies.
C. Recommended Progran for Military Government
In general, it will be desirable to utilize as muoh as
possible of the existing Japanese logislation whioh has been sus-
pended and former Japanese legislation which may have been abrogated.
Conversely, in the case of industrial discipline particularly, it
will be possible to achieve Military Government objectives by the
repeal of repressive legislation on the books.
While little can be done to alleviate some of the most basic
economio problems of the occupation period, advantage should be
taken of whatever opportunities may be available to educate the
Japanese worker and direct his hostility away from the Military
Government and against those Japanese who are responsisle for his
misery. By providing protoction from some of the major hazards of
industrial omployment, and by opening the door to collective bargain-
ing for docent working conditions, the occupation authorities can
cause some Japanese workers to ask themselves who was really respon-
sible for their previous situation.
The program whioh it is recommended that Military Government
foilow with respect to working conditions other than wages and hours
may be sunmarized as foilows:
1. It is recommended that pre-war (in general, 1937) legal stand-
ards of safety and hygiene be re-established and that certain slight
but significant changes be made in the pre-war legislation to facil-
16-007 P7 bu

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
itate worker-enforoement of legal standards. It should be noted that
the workers who will be most affeoted by a return to pre-war stand-
ards will be those in the larger, more efficient industrial estab-
lishmonts, whose cooperation will be of maximum velue to the ocoupa-
tion authorities in inoreasing production and alleviating shortages
of goods.
2. The inadequacies of pre-war legislation will limit the effec-
tiveness of the step just recommended, especially since many new
handicraft establishments will probably emerge, whioh because of their
small size will be exempt from the law. It may therefore be asked
whether the legislation ought not be revised to extend its applioa-
tion to cover these new small enterprises.
It is reconmended that no such extension of ooverage be attempted.
In the first place, many of the small establishments will be so poor
that oompliance with the law might put them out of business. Secondly,
finding a sufficient number of trustworthy inspectors to enforoe the
law in these enterprises, and handling the flood of prosecutions whioh
would be neoessary, would constitute a serious and probably insoluble
problem for Military Government.
3. Sinoe the pre-war legislation was inadequate not only in
coverale but also with respect to the standards it set, it may be
considered desirable to modify the law to raise these standards and
put teeth in the law generally. It is recommended, however, that
suoh ohenges be kept to a minimur.
In general, exact specifioations for such items as safety
equipment, kitohen and lunchroom sanitation, or the amount and kind
of bodding or washing equipment, cannot be drawn up except on the
basis of a field survey which would take into acoount local conditions.
It is therefore reoommended that no immediate effort be made to write
more specific requirements concerning such matters into the law. In
practice, definite standards can be developed in individual plants
through collective bargaining.1 Such joint agreements will tend to
represent the attainable standard for the enterprise at the time in
question.
In several important respects, however, the pre-war legislation
can be altered to improve working conditions without complicating
administration. The Industrial Workers Minimum Age Act can be altered
to forbid the employment of any person under 14, and the Ordinance for
the Administration of the Factory Act can be amended to require equal
protection for all workers, whether or not olassified as apprentices
by their omployer. These steps, if taken together, will eliminate
a whole area of substandard employment, and greatly simplify admin-
istration of the laws governing working conditions.
1 See Civil Affairs Guide. Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining in
Japan
10-007 P8 bu

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
4. To facilitate specifio application and enforcemont of
standards through worker-managoment negotiation, the immediate
abrogation of the Factory and Workshop Supervision Aot is reoom-
mended. 1 In addition, it is reconwended that a seotion be added
to the Factory Act, the Regulations for the Employment and Relief
of Liners, and the Act respecting Seamen, to the effeot that no
employee may be dismissed or otherwise penalized because of member-
ship in a trade union or other organization having as its aim the
improvement of working conditions. This provision should be included
in copies of these acts, to be posted in a conspiouous place on the
work premises.
5. Because of the housing shortage which will probably exist at
the time of occupation, it will probably be necessary to continue
the use of dormitories for some time. However, where alternative
arrangements are possible, the use of dormitories ought to be dis-
couraged. Furthermore, it is reoommended that the Regulations for
Dormitories Attached to Factories be amended to provide that the
employee must have free access to his living quarters at any reason-
able hour, but may not be required to spend any time on the indust-
rial premises outside of working hours. (To make possible the
enforcement of any desirable curfew, the determination of the reason-
ableness of the hour ought to be under the jurisdiction of the
Lilitary Government.) An amendment to the same act stipulating that
the free circulation of written and printed material and the free
use of radio-receiving facilities nust be permitted in housing on
industrial premises is also recommended, to counteract the effeot of
wartime propuganda and indoctrination.
6. Since before the war the prefectural governor was given broad
powers by most of the basic legislation governing working conditions
other than wages and hours, it is recommended that an order be issued
by the military authorities stating that with respect to the legisla-
tion in question the powers of the prefectural governor will be
exercised by the Civil Affairs Orficer in charge of each prefecture.
7. It is further recommended that the war measure placing welfare
matters in vital factories and mines under the jurisdiction of the
Munitions Ministry be cancelled, and full jurisdiction over those
matters restored to the Bureau of Labor and the Mines Inspection
Bureau in the Department o. Welfare. In order to expedite adminis-
tration and prevent misuse of police power, the role of the police
in the inspectorate ought to be eliminated as soon as possible, and
these funotions carried out by the appropriate government bureau.
1 See Civil Affairs Guide, Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining
in Japan.
16-007 P9 bu

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
8. Sinoe full cooperation of the Japanese population can be
secured only by encouraging them to rejoot the anti-demooratio
prinoiples of Japanese militarism it is strongly recommended that
the so-called Peace Preservation Act be immediately abrogated.
Suoh action, together with those recommended above and in the guide:
Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining in Japan, will aid in equip-
ping the Japanese worker to think for himself, rejeot his military
overlords, and cooperate with the oooupation authorities in bringing
Japan into line with the democratio world with respeot to freedom
to work for better working and living conditions.
18 007 P10 bu

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER II
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND SAFETY PROTECTION
Working conditions in Japanese industry vary widely depending
upon the industry and plant involved. Before the war, the cheap
labor policy applied to the wages of Japanese workers and the
relative weakness of the trade union movement were instrumental in
keeping working donditions in the factories and mines on a generally
lower level than in Western countries, although above the extremely
poor conditions prevalent in China and India.
A. Factories and Factory Dormitories
1. General Description
For the purposes of this report, Japanese factories can be
classified in four different ways:
a. By size -- as large-, medium-, or small-scale. According
to the most widely-used definition, a large-scale Japanese factory
is one with 100 or more workers, a medium-scale factory has 50-99
workers, and a mall-scale factory less than 50 workers. A factory
with less than 30 workers in considered a workshop, and a workshop
with less than 10 workers is a small workshop. In 1930, 59 peroent
of all so-called factory employment was in such mall workehops, and
53 percent was in shops with less than five workers. Working condi-
tions in mhops with less than 10 workers were not sub ject to any
legal regulations, and not all factories with l0 or more workora
were regulated.
b. According to the presence or absence of a dormitory for
the workers. Questions of working conditions in general, and of
safety and hygiene in particular, are probably most important in the
factories and mines whicn maintain the dormitory system. In 1925
about 650,000 workers (of whom 530.000 were women) lived in dorm1-
tories on factory premises. Standards of safety and hygiene here
apply not only to actual conditions of work, but also to quantity
and quality of food, clothing, modical care, bathing facilities, and
living quarters. The textile industry, which accounted for the bulk
of the dormitory system in the past, shrank considerably in the
course of the war, but to house the increase in Korean contract
laborers, barrracks were set up in steel mills, arsenals, mines, and
numerous other industrial estahlishments. With the termination of
hostilities, the textile industry will again become the principal
practitioner of the dormitory system. While some of the dormitories
appear to have been quite pleasant places, clean and airy, others
were not well kopt. Too many girls were crowded into one room for
18-007 P11 bu

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
sleeping quarters, with the day and night shift sharing the same
bedding and with poor food and careless sanitation. Food in all
factories was badly balanced, and a large number of the occupants
were very undernourished.
C. As a household or pon-household enterprise. A very
large number of small shops are domestic workahops, operated in
private homes, and employing chiefly members of the same family.
Most domestic workshops employ less than five persons. Many such
household enterprises are not included in the factory statistics
at all, because they are operated only part-time. Obviously, most
of these enterprises are subject to no reguation concerning working
conditions.
d. By industry. Even before the war, many workers in
factories with 10 or more workers did not benefit from safety and
hygiene legislation, because certain industries and occupations
were exempt.
2. Prewar Protection
a. Legislation. The regulations governing safety and hygiene
in factories and dormitories attached to factories were embodied in
the Factory Act and four pieces of supplementary legislation: the
Ordinance for the Administration of the Factory Act, the Regulations
for the Administration of the Factory Act, the Regulations concerning
Accident Prevention and Hygiene, and the Regulations for Dormitories
Attached to Factories. 1
The Factory Act, the basic act regulating working conditions
in manufacturing establishments, covered all plants with 10 or more
employees and/or those where the work was of a dangerous nature or
injurious to health. Exempted were establishments subject to the
Mining Act, and factories manufacturing articles made chiefly of
atraw, paper, or woodshavings, those processing food, and those
nanufacturing toys; but none except the first-named was exempt if
the motive power for the factory was supplied by a steam, oil, or
gas engine, steam or water turbine, Pelton wheel, or electric motor.
Factories covered because of the dangerous or injurious nature of
their work were those carrying on any of the hazardous processes
specified in the Factory Act and the Regulations for the Adminis-
tration of the Factory Act, the specified processes gonerally
involving the generation of dangerous fumes or gases, the production
of large amounts of dust, the handling of poisonous or explosive
substances, or the subjection of workers to dangerously high temperatures.
1
Unless otherwise noted, a reference in this Guide to any Japanese
law or decree is to be understood as applying to the text as
amended up to 1937. (After 1937 legal standards were lowered to
meet war emergency conditions.)
16 007 P12 bu

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
From the way the law was phrased, it appears that the exemptions
listed above took priority over the coverage implied in the
listing of hasardous processes, in cases where the applicability
of the act was in question. Certain provisions of the Factory
Act having reference to restrictions on hours and authorisation
for inspection applied to factories, not otherwise included, em-
ploying motive power and engaged in weaving and doubling.
Dormitories housing less than 10 workers were exempt from
most of the regulations governing factory workers' accommodations.
Insofar as it dealt with safety and hygiene, this body of
legislation attempted to ensure:
a. Proteotion from the general hazards involved in
having a number of persons working or living together under one roof.
Under this heading may be classified the regulations governing
lighting, ventilation, the provision and maintenance of messrooms,
cloakrooms, washrooms, and toilets, the prevention of obstructions
on staircases and at exits, and the ban on the employment of persons
with diseases or disabilities likely to prove a hazard to themselves
or their fellow employees. For dormitories, the amount of floor-space
to be allowed for each bed was specified, and buildings used as dormi-
tories were not permitted to exceed two stories in height.
In most cases, however, the legislation was merely qualitative
in the standards it established. For example, "adequate" washing
facilities had to be provided if workers ate a meal at a factory,
and the "necessary articles" had to be furnished in the washrooms.
Similarly, in regard to lighting and ventilation, the prefectural
governor might order such changes as he "deemed necessary". How-
ever, persons afflicted with the contagious, infectious, or other-
wise dangerous illnesses listed in the Regulations for the Adminis-
tration of the Factory Act were categorically prohibited from employ-
ment in messrooms, kitchens, and dormitories, in addition to the
general ban on their employment.
b. Protection from hazards arising from the nature of the
work carried on.
Under this heading can be grouped the provisions covering
mechanical, chemical, and other hazards associated with the processes
listed as dangerous or injurious to health. Mechanical hazards were
dealt with in the legislation under discussion by a number of regu-
lations requiring the fencing or covering of moving parts, the pro-
vision of special apparatus to prevent atrain on the part of the
worker, equipment to stop transmission machinery in case of accident
and the requirement that a warning be given before starting it again,
and the designing of specified parts of machinery so that they could
16-007 P13 bu

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13 -
be opened only when the machines were at a standstill. Fences
or covers for boist openings, vats, or stairways were to be pro-
vided "where possible" and ladders used in work were to be fitted
to prevent slipping or overturning.
Chemical hazards were recognized as requiring the use of
"protective devices" but these were not specified by law. The
prefectural governor might order the occupier of the factory to
supply drinking water, or even gargling facilities, if he "deemed
it necessary". Other dangers, such as those from explosives, oily
rags, or other hazards, were dealt with by simple rules for the
prevention or minimization of accidents, such as the requirement
that special exits and staircases be provided.
The Regulations concerning Accident Prevention and Hygiene
specified that where danger of injury existed, first aid equipment
was to be supplied and kept in a place known to the workers. If
an employee was injured or fell ill in the course of work, the occu-
pier of the factory had to pay the cost of medical attendance,
1
according to the Ordinance for the Administration of the Factory Act.
b. Enforcement.
Three of the five statutes covering safety and hygiene in
factories and dormitories contributed, in theory, to the enforce-
ment of the standards they established. Under the Factory Act the
administrative authorities were given broad powers for enforcement
by Section 13, which provided: "If the administrative authorities
hold that a factory, or the premises or equipment thereof, is likely
to prove dangerous or detrimental to health, morality, or other
public interests, they may instruct the occupier of such a factory,
in accordance with regulations to be issued by order, to take such
measures as may be necessary to prevent or reduce the dangers in
question, and if necessary they may also prohibit entirely or in
part the use of the factory, premises, or equipment in question."
This section also stated that the administrative authorities might
instruct workers or apprentices concerning the measures to be taken
by the occupier of the factory, thus creating the possibility of
worker-cooperation in enforcement. Furthermore, under Section 14
of the Factory Act, any competent official (properly accredited
on specified official forms) might inspect a factory or its annexes,
or examine any worker or apprentice suspected of having an infectious
disease or one entailing prohibition of employment, and any effort
to evade or obstruct inspection carried the penalty of a 500-yen fine.
1
The workmen's compensation and sickness insurance systems covering
factory workers are discussed in the Civil Affairs Guide.
16-007 P14 bu

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
Section 35 of the Regulations concerning Accident Prevention
and Hygiene paralleled Section 13 of the Factory Act, but stopped
short of authorizing the closing of the factory in whole or part.
c. Roports.
A provision of the Regulations for Dormitories Attached to
Factories required the factory owmer to report any rules for the
management of his dormitory to the prefectural governor, and another
provision required him to affix a copy of the Regulations and of his
management rules in a conspicuous place.
Monthly reports were required of factories employing 50 or
more workers, giving the number and type of casualties occurring
in the previous month. In addition, certain types of accidents
were to be reported on a prescribed form by all factories covered
by the Factory Act. Because of the limited coverage of the act,
and the fact that only certain accidents were reported, it is not
possible to use the data thus supnlied to evaluate either the
adequacy of the safety legislation or the level of enforcement.
d. Occurrence of Industrial Accidenta.
Reported accidents increased in number between 1930 and
1938 and if the year 1932 is taken as a base, equal to 100, total
industrial accidents for the years 1936 and 1937 have the index
numbers 238 and 286 while accidents per worker in 1936 and 1937
have the index numbers 154 and 166. Thus while reported accidents
nearly trebled in number between 1932 and 1937, the reported
accident rate increased 66 percent. 1/ For the reasons given above,
no one interpretation of this change can be advanced with certainty.
3. Wartime Developments
a. Increase in Industrial Accidents.
In general, wartime working conditions tend to cause an
increase in industrial accidents. Longer hours, the use of inex-
perienced workers, the deterioration of plant and equipment, the
introduction of new processes, and the increased handling of dangerous
materials all combined to bring about this result.
Department of Welfare figures quoted in the Tokyo Gazette, ugust
1939, p. 20. It is evident that the number of employees covered
increased substantially during the period.
10-007 P16 bu

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
In factories the increase in accidents nted for the period
1930-1937 continued into 1938, when the number of accidents rose to
3.26 times the 1932 figure, the rate rising at the same time to
1.72 times the 1932 rate. Statist'os on the change between 1938
and 1940 are not available, but according to a Domei news release,
there was a drop of 8 percent in 1941 as ccmpared with 1940 in
the total number of induatrial accidents. The news agency attri-
buted this drop to the more stringent enforcement of safety measures
in factories.
Department of Welfare figures indicate that in 1937 and 1938
middle-sized factories had a rate of absences from occupational
injuries nearly twice as high es the rate in large or in small
factories. The definitions of size used are not given, but it may
be assumed that large factories are those with l00 or more workers,
and small factories, those with less than 50. It is possihle that
part of the reported rise in the period 1932-1938 was due to a
greater relative employment in middle-sized factories, with a cor-
responding decline in employment in small factories.
Some of the reported drop in accidents between 1940 and
194l might, in turn, have resulted from a greater relative employ-
ment in large faotories as opposed to middle-sized factories.
The steady rationalization of Japanese industry probably involved
a progressive increase in the average number of persons employed
per factory, and the increase in unit size may have followed this
pattern. It should be pointed out that the lower reported rate
for small factories may be meaningless as a basis of evaluating
safety conditions in 1937, because factories with less than 50
employees were required to report only certain types of accidents.
The difference in rate between medium-sized and large-sized
factories, on the other hand, probably represents a real difference
in safety conditions.
The rise between 1937 and 1938 was accompanied by, and per-
haps in part due to, an increase in the proportion of women in the
total employment for certain occupations, especially in certain
expanding industries such as the machine-tool industry.
b. Deterioration in Hygienic Working Conditiong.
Hygiene in factory lunchrooms and dormitories has probably
deteriorated as a result of labor shortages and shortages of equip-
ment. Labor shortages were reported to be partly responsible for
the abandonment of the school lunch program launched by the Japanese
in l944, and it is probable that maintenance of factory eating and
sleeping facilities has also suffered from lack of manpower. The
acute shortage of fabrics and all consumer goods must likewise have
affected the standards of equipment and cleanliness with respect to
bedding, mattresses, uniforms, and other equipment supplied to the
worker.
16-007 P16 bu

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
4. Problems for Military Government
As an important part of the program to gain the cooperation
of Japaness workers, it is recommended that the provisions of any
laws or decrees nullifying specified provisions of the Factory Act
or its supplementary legislation be abrogated, and that the specified
provisions of the Factory Act and its supplementary legislation be
declared to be in full effect. 1/
After the defeat of Japan, her industry will probably suffer
severe dislocations, Aircraft, munitions, and other industries in
which a large part of the wartime labor force has been employed, will
cease to function, and it will probably be some time before their
plant facilities can be converted to peacetime production. In the
meantime, it is anticipated that a large number of new enterprises
may come into existence, most of these employing only a amall number
of workers. The trend toward larger units in industry, which has
been taking place ever since 1937, will therefore be stopped, and
possibly reversed, As a consequence, the number of industrial es-
tablishments coming under the Factory Act will probably decrease.
Furthermore, the new small factories which will begin operation under
post-defeat conditions will probably have the lowest standards with
respect to safety and hygiene.
Unfortunately, little can be done on a purely legislative or
administrative level about the problem of standards of safety and
hygiene in small-scale industry. Many of the inadequacies of the
small postwar factories will represent a real lack of capital, and
legislating higher standards for these enterprises would be quite
unrealistic, even if it were possible to secure the staggeringly
large staff required to carry out the necessary inspections, reports,
and prosecutions.
Rather than attempting to improve on the inadequate and vague
standards established under the Factory Act and supplementary legis-
lation, it isrecommended that emphasis be placed on enforcement of
Factory Act Standards where they are applicable. At first it will
be necessary to rely on purely administrative measures to accomplish
this purpose, and it is possible that they may not be completely
effective. Later on, when employee-organizations begin to function,
onforcement may be expected to improve. Finally, if industry-wide
agreements are reached between workers and management, better and
more concrete standards may be formulated and proposed for enactment
into law. This will probably be the first practicable moment for
attempting to improve safety and hyglene conditions in factories
with less than 10 workers, and even at that time enforcement cannot
be expected to reach a very high level except in those establishments
in which employee-organizations play an active part.
1 See appendix for index to provisions of the legislation in question.
10-007 P17 bu

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
To provide a toehold for employee organizations in their
offorts to enforce legal standards, it is recommended that a pro-
vision be added to the Factory Act requiring that a copy of the
Factory Act and all orders issued thereunder to which an indivi-
dual factory is subject be kept posted in a place in which they
can be easily read by the workers.
The dormitory system has been introduced into many new
industries during the war, but in most cases they are industries
which will close down with the defeat of Japan. Some of the ac-
commodations provided during the war were of new construction, but
many were converted commercial properties, made available by the
close-up of non-essential enterprises. The bulk of those belonging
to plants which may be expected to continue operation after defeat
are probably structures which date back into the twenties or thirties.
To these will be added whatever accommodations are provided for
workers in the new small-scale enterprises expected to come into
existence. Because of the limitations of capital in such enter-
prises, such accommodations will probably not be of high standard.
It is recommended that with respect to dormitory conditions,
the same policy be followed as that outlined for sefety end hygiene
in the factories themeelves. It should be pointed out that in both
factories and dormitories attached to them the existence of fire
hazards is a matter of concern to the occupation authorities not
only because of the danger to the workers but because of the danger
to the peace and security of the entire area. For that reason, special
attention ought to be given to the inspection of factories and
dormitories for the elimination of fire hazards. It is recommended
that if complete enforcement of the Factory Act and the supplementary
legislation covering safety and hygiene in factories proves to be
impossible, the Civil Affairs Officer in each prefect concentrate on
those provisions covering the elimination of fire hazards, and deputize
responsible peroons to carry out periodic examinations of all industrial
premises (including the dormitories attached thereto) with the object of
eliminating fire hazards.
B. Mineß
1. General Description
Most Japanese mines are poor from an economic standpoint, and
this fact alone might be expected to prevent working conditions from
rising to Western standards. In addition, the traditional employment
of female as well as male labor in mines and the relative isolation
of mining districts have tended to keep working condition standards at
a low level. The "company town" is a ramiliar and depressing sight in
Japanese mining districts, and since the war the miserable homes such
towns have been supplemented by crowded barracks housing the large in-
flux of Korean workers. Legal protection of safety and hygiene standards
in theory extended to all mines, but in practice, even before the war,
10-007 P18 

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
inadequate enforcement, as well as low legal standards, made this
protection relatively meaningless.
2. Prewar Protection.
a. Lestelation
The basio legislation covering safety and hygiene in mines
before the war included the Mining Act, the Detailed Regulations
for the Administration of the Mining Act, and the Regulations for
the Employment and Relief of Miners. This legislation applied to
all mines, but a few of the provisions did not apply to state-owned
mines.
The Mining Act contained the basie authority for the proteotion
of life and health in connection with mining, but included few speci-
fications for safeguarding either.1/ The Regulations for the Employ-
ment and Relief of Miners, in Section 14, prohibited the employment
of persons suffering from any of a number of prosoribed disorders.
(These were identical with those listed in Section 8 of the Regulations
for the Administration of the Factory Act.) In case of injury or ill-
ness, the holder of the mining right was required under Section 18 to
provide medical treatment at his owm expense or to bear the expense
of any medical attendance required.
b. Administration
Administration of the Mining Act and supplomentary legislation
was under the jurisdiction of the Mines Inspection Bureau in the De-
partment of Commerce and Industry (formerly the Ministry of Agriculture
and Commerce). According to the original 1905 aot, if danger was
apprehended in any mining operation, or if it was deemed injurious
to public welfare, the Minister of Agriculture and Commerce might
order the holder of the mining right "to take precautionary measures
or to suspend mining operations" and failure to comply with any such
order carried a fine of 200 yen. The Chief of the Mines Inspection
Bureau ceuld take similar action if "immediate danger" threatened.
This may have been altered when the Mining Act was amended, but in
any event since the staff of the Mines Inspection Bureau was so limited
in size, the chief problem was not one of authority to act, but one
of adequate supervision. An observer comented in 1922 that, "As
the number of mining concessions is so large, even in coal mining
alone, it is almost impossible for this small body of inspectors to
supervise all the mines. Those mines employing more than about five
hundred workers, and those which are dangerous from the point of view
More detailed standards may have been included in later revisions
of the Mining Act, none of which were located, or in the Detailed
Regulations for the Administration of the Mining Act, no text of
which could be located.
10-007 P19 bu

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
of explosion are visited most frequently, while the smaller mes
are visited scaroely once a year." 1
c. Reports and Industrial Accidente.
Under the authority contained in Section 37 bis of the Datailed
Regulations for the Employment and Relief of Miners, the Chief of the
Mines Inepection Bureau might order any reports he considered necessary
and statistics on accidents in mines gathered under this and previous
authorities show a high accident and a high fatality rate in Japanese
mines. Since the smaller mines with lower capitalization were subject
to the least government supervision (due to the limited inspeotion
staff), the accident rate was probably highest in such mines.
d. Dormitories
Dormitories attached to mines do not appear to have been subject
to any government regulation. ▲ variant of the dormitory system was
the familiar "company town" where all the houses were owned by the mine
owner, who also managed the only available stores. The miserable
conditions in these towns reflected the fact that even before the war.
and even for Japan, mining was a substandard occupation.
2. Wartime Developments
The war created a crisis in the Japanese mining industry.
Experienced miners were drafted, and their places taken by Koreans,
women workers, and university students contributing the required two
months of labor service. But the Koreans, after fulfilling their
contracts, wished to return home, and the women workers and seasonal
student help could not take the place of skilled miners. By 1943,
the mine operators were demanding a general conscription of mine workers
to relieve the acute labor shortage which had developed. To aggravate
the situation, there were not enough beams for the pits (due to the
lumber shortage), and the resulting hazards increased accidents and
decreased the willingness of the miners to do underground work.
It appears, however, that these problems might have been solved
in some way if the wages, food rations, and housing facilities for
miners had not been so indescribably poor. In 1944 the government
began to give official recognition to poor working conditions as the
main cause of the labor shortage in mining. Resisting pressure for
conscription of coal miners, the Minister of Welfare stated early in
1944: "I; is not easy to requisition labor for coal mining. The ease
or difficl.lty of obtaining labor depends upon the welfare facilities
end conditions in the various mines, and we are not in a position to
7
"Labor Conditions in Japanese Coal Mines", Intornational Labor Re-
view, Vo1. V, No. 2, Fobruary 1922, pp. 251-264.
10-007 P30 bu

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-19 -
requisition labor at present. Next year three million (yen) will
be appropriated for the improving of welfare facilities in the ooal
mines, and together with special food rations for miners, should en-
able employers to offer better conditions to the miners." 1/
In March 1944 it was announced that physicians would be
stationed permanently at all mines under the jurisdiction of the
Sendai Mining Supervision Bureau, and in September 1944, as a part
of a drive for increased coal production, it was stated that "....
steps will be taken to raise the morale of the coal mine workers,
to insure the supply of labor, materials, tools, and transportation
power, to construct new and expand present living quarters for
laborers, and to strengthen supervision of labor. In addition, the
syatem of commendation of mines and laborers showing excellent re-
sults and rendering meritorious services is expected to be expanded."
At least one step in this program was actually carried out--the
strengthening of supervision over labor. By September of 1944, 200
mines had been placed under the Factory and Workshop Supervision Act.
Under this law, which is fully discussed in Chapter V of this Guide,
mine workers were placed under a pauedo-military system which left
them no choice but to accept the axisting working conditions, however
intolorablo.
Further evidence that the more benevolent measures were probably
not carried out appears in the simultaneous announcement that in spite
of previous opposition to conscription of mine labor, workers from
factories were being arbitrarily transferred to permanent jobs in mines.
A clue to the level of safety, hygiene, and general welfare in
Japanese mines lies in the history of the employment of Korean miners.
Before the war these workers made up less than 5 percent of the mining
force; by 1944 they constituted 30 to 40 percent. Imported by the
Japanese under contract for two years, they have often been kept in
virtuml concentration camps at the mines. Not allowed to bring their
families with them or to mingle with Japanese co-workers, these Korean
miners have endured their miserable lot because they have had no
cboice and because at the end of their service they would have a few
tlousand yen to take home.
In 1944, most workers who had fulfilled their contracts, and
some who had not, wished to return to Korea, and the government became
so alarmed that it made relatively great concessions to the Koreans,
or at least promised suoh concessions. Married workers were to be
joined by their families, while bachelors might live in the same buildings
with Japanese workers, thus, it was announced, considerably bettering
themselves from the standpoint of housing. Additional inducements to
1 Broadcast by Tokyo in Japanese, Pebruary 3. 1944. Since there were per-
haps half a million persons working in coal mines in l944, three million
yen would not go very far towards improving welfare facilities.
16-007 P21 bu

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
renew contracts were promised, such as gold medals, money allowances,
and opportunity for advancement.
It seems clear that such concessions to an oppressed minority,
even if only in words and only until new contracts were signed, imply
thet orking conditions in the mining industry were far below the
average for Japan--and during the war, the average fell very low.
4. Problems for Military Government.
With the defeat of Japan, the double standard of working con-
ditions in mines (for Koreans as against Japanese workers) may dis-
appear, since Korean workers will probably wish to return to Korea,
where economic opportunities may well be superior to those in Japan.
The main concern of Military Government in connection with
working conditions in mines will be the problem of securing maximum
coal production to supply military needs and civilian requirements.
It is very doubtful that even fair production will be forthcoming
unless something is done to improve the situation of the miners. In
this respect, mining is likely to prove the critical industry in
peace as in war, and special measures may be required in order to
secure a satisfactory relationship between the mine workers and
Military Government, and a resulting adequate output of coal.
Since copies of all the legislation covering safety and hygiene
in mines in effeot before the war have not been located, the recom-
mendation that pre-war standards be revived must of course be made
with reservations. The likelihood is, however, that none of the pre-
war statutes went far enough in the direction of adequate standards,
and that revival and enforoement of the pre-war laws will not suffi-
ciently improve the working conditions of miners.
If this proves to be the case, special orders covering indivi-
dual mines or groups of mines will have to be issued. The mines to
be covered should be selected on the basis of productivity, and their
number will have to be kept within limits so that, if necessary, Mili-
tary Government can itself carry out the enforcement of the new regu-
lations.
Special measures planned and oarried out by Military Government
to increase production in coal mines ought to be carefully condidered
in the light of the ultimate objective: willing cooperation on the
part of the Japanese workers. If conditions in mines are bad, produc-
tion may temporarily be increased by the use of force to coerce the
miners, tut in the end the cooperation of the miners and of other
workers may be permanently lost. It is therefore recommended that
an inquiry be made into conditions in Japanese mines (by inspection
tours to selected mines), and if it is clear that a revival of pre-
war standards will not materially improve them, special orders should
16-007 P22 bu

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
- 21 -
be prepared immediately to bring conditions in the most important
mines up to a reasonably high standard. If necessary, special food
rations or other measures may be authorized for miners, and, if
substantial mmmbers of Korean workers remain, special relief measures
mey be taken in their behalf.
C. Merchant Marine
1. General Description
In peacetime, the most important part of the Japanese merchant
marine was probably the vast fleet of small fishing boats which pro-
vides Japan with her chief sunply of animal protein. However, the
majority of these craft were family-owned and operated and were thus
maritime household enterprises. The great majority were of such low
tonnage that working conditions on board have always been exempt from
regulation.
A smaller, but industrially important, part of the Japanese
fishing industry wre the larger "cannery boats", on which deep-sea
fish were caught and packed by hired laborers. These were true sea-
going factories, but their working conditions have never been subject
to any form of regulation. However, if the vessel was large enough,
pre-war legislation sometimes gave some protection to the crew of the
vessel, as distinct from the workers who canght and packed fish. In
general, working conditions on the "cannery boats" were miserable in
the extreme.
Small vessels engaged in coastwise trade or transport, and
all veseels operating on inland waterways were likewise exempt from
regulation as to working conditions. In peacetime, merchant seamen
on the larger sea-going vessels were in a somewhat better bargaining
position than many workers on land, because the maritime unions were
historically rather strong, and this strength was reflected in fairly
good legislation. However, the general disadvantage under which Japan-
ese workers labored extended to the merchant marine, and compared to
the men of other merchant navies, Japanese seamen were not well treated.
2. Prewar Protection
a. Legislation. In l937, earlier legislation regulating con-
ditions of work in the merchant marine was replaced by the Act Res-
pecting Seamen, and in the following year regulations were issued to
supplement this act. Act No. 79, Respecting Seamen, dated ugust 13,
1937, covered working conditions for men employed on:
1. Fishing vessels of 30 or more tons gross tonnage, and
2. All other vessels of 20 or more tons gross tonnage,
provided in all cases that the vessels were not propelled chiefly by
oars and/or were not being operated in inlend waterways. However, men
10-007 P23 bu

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
-22 -
employed by persons other than the shipowner were not covered by
the act. This provision exempted from coverage the employees of
fishing and canning enterprises operating on the high seas in
vessels owned by other concerns, although with respect to the crews
operating the vessels this exemption would of course not apply if
they were hired by the shipowner.
An important difference tetweer te 1937 act and the previous
legislation (which it repealed) was the fact that it did not exempt
sailing vessels. In 1940 there were only 4,214 non-sailing vessels in
the Japanese merchant marine with a fross tonnage of more than 20
tons, while there were more than 15,000 sailing vessels of such tonnage.
While most of the latter were fishing vessels, and would be exempt if
of less than 30 tons, the number of sailing vessels covered by the
1937 act must have been consideratle, even allowing for those exempt
because they were operating in inland waterways.
The Act Fespecting Seamen contained only meagre provisions
covering safety and hygiene aboard ship. Section 22 provided that
a doctor and medical aguipment must be furnished for the care of sick
persons. Under Section 21 the shipowner had to provide rations according
to standards to be set by Imperial Ordinance. An ordinance of the
following year gave minute specifications for rations to be provided
on vessels of 1,000 or more tons gross tonnege, but on other vessels
this sci cdule di not anply if the quentity of food served was adequate.
3. Wartime Developments
The Jepaneso merchant fleet, which had been steadily increasing
in size from 1937 to 1942, had fallon by the middle of 1943 to an
estimated figure 14 percent below that for lovember 194l. Losses since
that date have been on an ever-increasing scale, and in spite of a
feverishly accelerated shipbuilding program the Japanese mercnant marine
will probably continue to shrink until the end of the war.
Since the beginning of war with the United States the Japanese
government has adopted various measures to deal with lowered morale
among Japanese seamen. While the hazards from torpedoing and bombing
have no doubt been most to blame for unrest in the Japanese merchant
marine, seamen have probably suffered as well from the general drop
in standard of living experienced by wartime Japan. By 1944 counter-
measure: included a plan for giving merchant seamen the status of
government officials, thus placing them on e level with police officers,
teachers, and Shinto priests. Steps were also being taken to get
authorization for an increase in wages and a service allowance amounting
to l00 percent of the regular salary, in addition to the existing risks
allowance.
10-007 P24 Du

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
4. Problems for Military Government
In the early occupation period, the Japanese merchant marine
may be placed under the direct control of Military Government. Rail
and highway transportation have never been highly developed in Japan,
and wartime destruction of railroads, bridges, and other facilities
has made tranaportation by boat, coastwise and on inland waterways, of
major importance. However, even with heavy coastwise and inland
waterway traffic, the cessation of military shipping and the certain
delay in the resumption of any substantial trade will leave Japan with
a surplus of merchant vessels, in spite of war losses. The impact of
this situation on merchant seamen will be grave, whether or not ahipping
is under direct military control, because of widespread unemployment,
and if there is no military control price-cutting between rival lines
for the small volume of commerce will weaken the bargaining position of
Japanese seamen, and probably result in further deterioration of working
conditions on board ship.
Since legal safeguards were so few and inadequate before tie war,
the chief source of enforcement of even minimum standards was the pres-
sure of organized workers. It is clear from provisions of the Act
Respecting Seamen that this pressure, even as late as 1937, was an
actual, or at least potential, force. Because of the meagreness of its
provisions for safety and hygiene aboard ship, revival of the 1937 Act
hespecting Seamen will not accomplish very much from an administrative
standpoint to improve working conditions in the merchant marine. How-
ever, by reviving the provisions of this act respecting collective bar-
gaining the first step will be taken in the direction of improvement
of conditions by pressure from the workers. In time employee organ-
izations in the merchant marine may formulate more adequate legislation
and succeed in having it passed.
It is therefore recommended that any laws or decrees passed since
1937 be declared void insofar as they nullify the provisions of the Act
Respecting Seamen, and that this act be ceclared in full effect.
16-007 P25 bu

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
- 24 -
CHAPTER III
SPECIAL PROTECTION FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN
The Factory Act, the Ordinance for the Adsinistration of the
Factory Act, and the Regulations for the Administration of the Factory
Act all contained provisions designed to offer special protection to
women workers in factories. The employment of women in mines was
regulated by certain sections af the Regulati ons for the Employment
and Relief of Miners. Aside from this legislation. the employment of
women was generally unregulated. For example, women employed as dook
workers, streetcar operators, or even waitresses, have never enjoyed
any special legal protection.
A. Special Protoction for Women
1. Pre-war Protection
Under Sections 9 and 10 of the Factory Act and Sections 5, 6.
and 7 of the Regulations for the Administration of the Factory Act.
women were barred from work of certain specified kinds in covered
factories. The prohibited type: of work included all jobs involving
exposure to excessive amount s of dust, gas, or fumes, or to dangerously
high temperatures. Also banned were: the work of cleaning, oiling.
or repairing specified dangerous parts of machinery while the machines
were in motion; the handling of an electric generator; the feeding of
lumber through a sawmill; and any work near unprotected moving wheels,
pulleys, belts, or ropes, or on unfenced shafting ways or scaffolding.
Numerous provisions of the legislation in question regulated
the number of hours and time of night during which women employed in
factories subject to regulation might work. The remaining provisions
directly affecting women workers were concerned with maternity. The
Regulations for the Administration of the Factory Act stated in section
10 that the Prefectural Governor might at his discretion forbid the
employment of women after confinement, for an unspecified period. In
addition, Section 9 of the Regulations forbade the employment of women
for six weeks after confinement unless at their own request, and at a
kind of work a qualified physician declared to be harmless. Section 9
also provided that a woman must be granted four weeks' leave before
confinement, if she requested it. Furthermore, under Section 9 bis.
a woman worker with a child less than a year old was entitled to two
short rest periods a day, of 30 minutes each, during which to mrse her
baby.
Coverage by the loglslation for the protection of women in
factories was similar to that by the legislation for general safety and
16-007 P26 bu

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
- 25-
and hygiene in factories (see pp.l0-11). The proportion of all
women factory workers covered was greater than the proportion of
men factory workers, but the almost total absenee of union organi-
zation among women and their generally weak position made it easy
for employers to evade the law when employing women. Under pre-
war conditicns, the majority of women workers in establishments
coming under the Factory Act were young girls recruited from rural
areas, working under a contract concluded with their parents, many
living in dormitories on the factory premises. Their situation
offered so many opportunities for exploitation that it is not re-
markaole that only a few "model" factories obeyed the letter and
spirit of the law respecting working conditions for women.
Under Section 1l bis of the Regulations for the Employment
and Relief of Miners as amended to 1928, women might not be employed
on underground work in mines after September 1, 1933, except with
the permission of the Chief of the Mines Inspection Bureau, in
certaih mines where most of the coal seams were thin. An Ordinance
of June 5, 1933 made this exception specific by stating that with
the permission of the Chief of the Mines Inspection Bureau, women
might work underground in coal mines where left-over coal was
chiefly extracted. Such mines, in which mechanization was ex-
tremely difficult, were few in mumber and most of them were located
in Northern Kyushu.
In 1933 the mumber of women and young persons 1 working under-
ground in mines had been reduced to 6,000. In 1928 this figure
had been 40,000. Mechanization of the mines was said to have made
this reduction possible. Whether any further reduction was accom-
plished is uncertain, but it is possible that the mumber of women
working underground in mines increased before the war, for the .
Ordinance of June 5, 1933 also stated that women might be employed
on underground work consisting mainly of picking up fragments of
coal. The employment of women underground was prohibited where
the temperature was above 35º Centigrade, and a limitation was
placed on the hours a woman might work underground if the temperature
was above 300 Centigrade. (Section 6 bis of the Regulations for
the Employment and Relief of Miners.) Specific hazardous operations
prohibited for women, listed in Section 12 of the Regulations,
included many covered by the Factory Act, and added a mumber
peculiar to mining, such as uncoupling trucks while in motion,
excavation of minerals or shovelling of rock, placing or firing
charges, erecting or removing props, handling very hot or molten
minerals or slag, working where electrolysis was performed, or
feeding furnaces with fuel.
Maternity provisions in Sections 15 and 16 of the Regula-
tions paralleled those for factory workers, except for the stipu-
1/ Also covered by the provisions listed.
5·007 P27 bu

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-26 -
lation that mursing periods need not be granted to women employed
in underground work if the holder of the mining right, with per-
mission of the Chief of the Mines Inspection Bureau, had made al-
ternate arrangements for feeding the babies of such workers.
2. Wartime Developments
Even before the war, Japanese women were finding employment in
increasing mumbers in machine tool plants and similar industries.
The voluntary invasion by women of occupations formerly closed to
them was accelerated after the beginning of the war with the United
States (partly as a result of the drastic drop in employment in the
textile industry), and as the war progressed it was supplemented
by government measures which more or less arbitrarily assigned
woman-power to high-priority industries. Finally, in 1944, Im-
perial Decrees made it illegal for women to be employed in certain
"luxury" industries, including the traditional geisha houses and
high-class restaurants.
As a result of these voluntary and involuntary shifts, by the
end of 1944 women were employed on a considerable scale in aircraft
factories, made up a large part of the labor force in the munitions
industry, had practically taken over the service industries, includ-
ing urban transportation, and had completely displaced men as dock-
workers.
It is obvious that the employment of women in this wide range of
occupations and under wartime conditions could hardly be reconciled
with the strict enforcement of the Factory Act. As a matter of
fact, Imperial Decrees extending wcrking hours in essential industries
to whatever was deemed necessary mullified the rights, previously
guaranteed to women, to shorter hours and more desirable shifts.
The safety and maternity provisions of the Factory Act and supple-
mentary legislation have not been specifically abrogated, but they
have also been mullified by the various ordinances issued under
the National Mobilization Law, directing the supply of women
workers into some of the very industries and jobs closed to them
under the Factory Act, and by the extreme manpower shortage which
has tended to restrict leave and holidays to an absolute minimum.
The wartime entrance of women into occupations formerly closed
to them was extended to the use of women workers as active coal
miners. As early as Augist 1939 an Ordinance of the Department of
Welfare authorized the employment of women over 25 years of age
as miners until liarch 31, 1942, provided that permission was se-
cured from the Chief of the Mines Inspection Bureau. A cir-
cular accompanying this ordinance instructed the heads of mining
inspection offices not to grant permission for the employment of
women underground in mines where gas or fumes or other hazards
made the work of uangerous nature. The circular also emphasized
16 007 P28bu

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
- 27 -
the intention of enforcing all the statutory provisions covering
night work, rest periods, etc. However, it is clear from various
Japanese publications that these safeguards did not survive the later
pressures of the war. Japanese broadcasts cite instances of women
miners who set endurance records by working all night even when fn
jured. The only barrier in the way of unlimited use of Japanese
women in mines has been the unspeakably bad conditions which have
prevented Japanese workers of either sex from entering this field
of employment in the mumbers needed.
3. Problems for Military Government
The situation of Japanese women workers after the war is in
part problematical. In the unavoidable mass unemployment after
defeat, they may be turned off in larger mumbers than men, and
men may be preferred in any hiring. On the other hand, the lower
wages they accept may result in the retention of women workers
while male workers bear the brunt of unemployment. It is a near-
certainty, however, that whether they are employed in large mumbers
or small, at their new-found skills or at the more traditional
occupations, Japanese women will be in a very weak bargaining posi-
tion, and will not be able to demand or secure adequate protection
from either general or specific hazards until there is a substantial
improvement in the bargaining power of labor as a whole. Ad-
ministrative efforts to enforce the inadequate pre-war legislation
protecting women, while largely a step in the right direction, will
prpbably not result in any very great improvement over wartime con-
ditions. The real offensive against the improper use of woman
labor will have to come from the workers themselves, and it pro-
bably will not come for some time.
The recommendations for legislation covering safety and hy-
giene in factories (see pp.15-16) apply, mutatis mutandis, to the
legislation covering the protection of women workers. The inclusion
of the provisions affecting women in the copies of relevant legis-
lation to be posted on the work premises will stimulate worker-
enforcement of these provisions, and thereby simplify the task
of the administrative authorities.
Since the alteration of the 1928 mining legislation in 1933
to provide that women might be employed underground to pick up
coal or in mines with thin seams was justified on the basis of
a labor shortage which will not exist after the war, it is recom-
men led that the Departmental Ordinance of June 5, 1933 be abro-
gated. However, since there appear to have been further slight
improvements effected by other amendments to the Regulation for
the Employment and Relief of Miners made as late as 1936, it is
recommended that the regislation be revived as of January 1, 1937
with the exception of the ordinance of June 5, 1933.
10-007 P20 bu

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20 -.
B. Special Protection for Children
1. Pre-war Protection
Legislation for the protection of child workers may be classi-
fied under two heads: minimum age legislation and regulations
for apprenticeship. 1/
a. Minimum age legislation. Before the war, the minimum age
act with the widest application was the Industrial Workers Minimum
Age Act of 1923, which embraced nearly all extractive, manufactur-
ing, construction, transportation, and goods handling activities.
Undertakings of the federal or local government or those where the
employer was a foreign power were covered by this act, but enter-
prises including only members of the same family were exempt, and
industrial schools could be exempted where such action was approved
by the administrative authorities.
Under this act the employment of children under 12 was totally
forbidden, and that of children 12 to 14 permitted only when they
had completed elementary school. The employer or manager of any
covered enterprise was required to keep a register listing all workers
under 16 years of age, and under Section 4 (similar to Section 14
of the Factory Act) a properly accredited official might inspect
the premises of any enterprise covered by the act. The penalties
for obstruction or contravention were the same as those under the
Factory Act (fines of 500 and 1,000 yen, respectively).
The Factory Act contained no flat minimim age provision, but
there were a mumber of provisions barring children from work at
certain hours and certain hazardous operations. Workers under 16
were barred from all the hazardous occupations prohibited for women
and certain additional jobs, chiefly those involving the handling
of dangerous or poisonous substances, were also closed to them.
No special protection of this type was extended to children employed
in other enterprises covered by the Industrial Workers Minimum
Age Act.
The Regulations for the Employment and Relief of Miners were
amended in 1928 to prohibit the employment of persons under 16 at
underground work in mines, but as in the case of women, such pereons
might be employed in mines where most of the coal seams were thin,
if the permission of the Chief of the Mines Inspection Bureau was
secured. A later amendment (in 1933) permitted the employment of
persons under 16 at undorground work consisting mainly of picking
up fragments of coal. All of the hazardous mining operations pro-
hibited for women workers were also banned for persons under 16,
as well as certain additional operations. A provision of the
Excluded from consideration in this report are mumerous provisions
relating to the mumber of hours and time of day children might work.
10-007 P30 bu

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 29 -
Regulations for the Employment and Relief of Miners required the
holder of a mining right to report to the authorities arrangements
made for the education of workers who had rt completed elementary
school, and the holder of a mining right was also required to list
all of his employees on a register and for workers under 16 give
the elementary school from which the employee graduated, or state
that he did not finiah school, if that, was the case.
Children under 16 might not be employed as seamen on any vessel
coming under the furisdiction of the Act Respecting Seamen of 1937.
Persons 15 to lc could be employed as seamen only upon presentation
of a medical curtificate stating that they were physically capable
of performing the necessary work. In the case of minors, the per-
mission of the parents was required for their employment, but if
that consent was secured they were considered adult for the pur-
pose of employment contracts. The employment of persons under
18 as trimmers or stokers was flatly prohibited.
A special Act Concerning the Prevention of Ill-treatment of
Children, passed in l933, gave the prefectural governor discretionary
powers for the prohibition of the employment of children under 14
in certain occupationa, such as peddling or entertainment, if the
children were ill-treated or likely to be ill-treated. Contravention
of any order issued under this authority was punishable by a fine
of 1,000 yen or one year's imprisonment.
b. Regulations governing apprenticeship. Section 28
through 32 of the Ordinance for the Administration of the Factory
Act outlined the conditions under which employees might be classi-
fied as apprentices. Persons so classified apparently could be
treated differently than other workers in factories covered by the
act, but it was stipulated in Section 30 that where apprentices
were "minors or females", safeguards to health were to be es-
tablished "according to the spirit of the Factory Act with refer-
enco to workers under 16."
An employer might classify his workers as apprentices if, as
stipulated in Section 28, the work was undertaken to impart the
knowledge and skill necessary for a particular occupation, training
was carried on under the direction and care of a specified person,
definite supervision was constantly given in regard to "moral
training", and the apprenticeship was conducted according to re-
gulations approved by the prefectural governor. To secure this
approval, the occupier of a factory was required, under Section 29,
to furnish detailed information concerning the term and articles
of apprenticeship, the mumber and age of apprentices, the quali-
fications of the trainer and the nature and duration of training,
and various other items of information. The prefectural governor
was authorized, under Section 3l, to order any necessary corrective
measures if he considered that the regulations approved by him
10-007 P31 bu

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
- 30 -
were not being followed, or if he felt that the training purposes
of the enterprise were not being carried out.
Furthermore, according to Section 32, if the requirements of
Section 28 were not fully satisfied or if the approval of the pre-
fectural governor was cancelled, the provisions of the Factory Act
and the Ordinance for the Administration of the Factory Act were to
apply, even though the occupier of a factory described his workers
as apprentices.
Special note should be taken of the wide discretionary powers
of the prefectural governor in connection with apprenticeehip. It
is clear that he alone had the power to prevent the misuse of ap-
prenticeshi, as a device for the evasion of the letter and spirit
of the minimum age laws and other protective legislation covering
children workine in factories.
2.
Wartliie levelopments
In the poriod 1937-1944, legislative measures protecting
juvenile workers suffered the same fate as those protecting women
workers. That is, they often were not specifically abrogated,
but al! were mullified or superseded by the various decrees and
ordinances issuel under the National Mobilization Law. As they
affected the protection of child workers, these measures may be
classifid nder two types: those dealing with all young workers,
and those exacting labor for part or all of the year from children
who woula not normally be in the labor force at all.
The Ordinance for Restricting Employment of Toung and Juvenil•
Male and onale Workers, issued in October 1940 was a semi-indirect
measure for channeling workers 12 to 30 (in the case of females, 12
to 20) into war industries and away from less essential undertakings.
Toward the end of 1943, the employment of men 14 to 40 in a com-
prehensive list of "light" occupations was forbidden. Early
in 1944 restaurants, tea houses, and other places of amusement were
closed in large numbers, and the female workers thus released were
diverted to more essential enterprises. The effect of these
measures has been to direct any boys not yet in uniform away
from the lighter occupations, such as the service industries, and
into factories, mines, and the merchant marine, where they are ex-
posed to new and probably greater hazards. Girls at the same time
have been barred from some of their traditional pursuits and forced
into factories and mines as well as into the "light" occupations
forbiduen to men.
In an effort to increase the labor supply, compalsory labor
service has been exacted of many young persons who would normally
not be working. This has been a gradual development, beginning
in 1938 with the requirement by the Ministry of Education that
school children and young students devote five days a year to pro-
16-007 P32 bu

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
. - 31 -
ductive labor, and until the end of 1943 involving not more than
60 days of such labor. However, in 1944 the labor conscription
age was lowered first to 13 years and then.to 12 1, and a full
year of industrial work was required of all drafted workers. In the
course of the year school children 12 years old and over were gradu-
ally transferred to full-time workers, either in regular factories
or in converted schoolrooms. Indications are that hy the end of 1944
only a neglible munber of middle schools were operating on an educa-
tional basis, and the transformation of elementary schoolrooms to
workrooms was a widespread phenomenon. In addition, students in
schools which had not been converted to workshops were putting in
many hours at work outside of school hours. The development of
neighborhood centers for small-scale industrial work depended heavily
on the use of children, as well as of married women, and children
were also extensively employei in truck-gardening, wood-gathering,
and similar work.
Since the child workers ware drafted because of the shortage
of adult labor, there can be no doubt that they are doing the same
jobs as adults. It seems clear, therefore, that many of the pro-
visions of the Factory Act, the Mining Act, and the Act Respecting
Seamen have gone by the board under wartime conditions. The sus-
pension of the provisions of the Industrial Workers Minimum Age Act
are too obvious to require comment.
3. Problems for Military Government
It is clear that after defeat, Japan will have no labor shortage,
but rather a labor surplus. As a consequence, the measures drafting
young workers may safely be abrogated. At the same time, the In-
dustrial Workers Minimum Age Act should be declared to be once more
in effect. It is recommended, however, that the language of the act
be altered to set the minimum age for employment in covered industries
at l4, regardless of school completion. This elevation of the mini-
mum age for employment will have the double effect of restricting
the labor supply and improving working conditions, since the removal
of sone of the weaker members of the labor force will place those
remaining in a better bargaining position. Raising the minimum
age for employment will also provide a foundation for an extension
of formal education beyond the minimal six years required.
It is further recommended that the provisions of the Factory
Act and the Mining Act prohibiting the mployment of persons under
l6 at haaardous occupations or under dangerous conditions be revived
at the 1937 level. The revival of the Act Respecting Seamen of 1937
and its supplementary legislation of 1938 has been previously recommended,
and will restore the slight measure of protection this act afforded to
young seamen.
1 By the occidental system of computing ages, some of the nominal
12-year-olds are only 10.
10-007 P33 bu

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
- 32 -
The Act concerning the Prevention of Ill-treatment of Children
probably ought to be revived as a temporary measure, but children
under 14 in occupations not covered by the Industrial Workers
!inimum Age Act will constitute a problem which in the end can only
be solved by prohibiting their employment altogether. The diffi-
culty and the necessity for an on-the-spot knowledge of tha employ-
ment of such children as the basis for framing an effective law
seems to make postponement of this prohibition desirable, at
least during the early stages of occupation.
With respect to sections 28-32 of the Crdinance for the Adminis-
tration of the Factory Act, cpncerning apprenticeship, it is recom-
mended that sections 28-31 be declared void, and that section 32 be
rewritten to provide that "the provisicns of the Factory Act and
of all orders issued pursuant to Factory Act shall apply at all
times, even though the occupier of a factory describes his workers
as apprentices".
This will at the same time simplify adminis-
tration of the law and plug up one of the major loopholes in
the Factory Act.
It is further recommended that a copy of the Industrial
Workers Minimum Age Act be posted on all premises occupied by enter-
prises subject to the act. Such a recommendation with respect to the
Factory Act and its supplementary legislation has already been made,
and provisions affecting young workers should be included in the
posted copies of this legislation. An identical recommendation
applies to the Regulations for the Employment and Relief of
Miners. 1/
1/
It is understood that recommendations for posting made in this
report apply only to sections of the relevant legislation which
are concerned with working conditions other than wages and hours.
For index to the provisions of the legislation covaring working
conditions other than wages and hours, Chapter V (Appendix).
10-007 PJ4 bu

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
- 33 -
CHAPTER IV
INDUSTRIAL DISCIPLINE AND THOUGHT CONTROL
Japan is a highly literate oountry and one in whioh industri-
alization has been fairly rapid. The faot that her standards of
worker-protection have, in effeot, been so low is of course partly
due to the ciroumstance that her industrial history has been so
short. Rowever, over and above the eoonomio and oultural lag whioh
might be expeoted to ooour, consoious and syatematio controls have
been exercised whioh have prevented or delayed the emergenoe of a
program of real sooial reform. These measures, as they have affeoted
working conditions, are desoribed here under the general heading,
"Industrial Disoipline and Thought Control".
A. Prowar History of Industrial Disoipline and Thought Control
It was not a mere aocident that nearly all of the beneficial
logislation listed in earlier chapters of this guide was passed
between 1920 and 1929. During that deoade, a good deal of oritioal
attention was fooused on abuses in the Japanese social systen. The
impetus for reform came chiefly from trade unions, but the influence
of the League of Natione through the International Labor Office
acted as a stimulus to Japanese national pride and thus also con-
tributed to progress in sooial logislation.
After this auspioious beginning, social reform in Japan was
slowed and finally halted. The fascist forces whioh were gaining
ascendanoy in Japanese national life inaugurated a series of anti-
demooratio measures whioh progressively narrowed the opportunity
for social progress.
Because of Japan's fairly recent feudal past, many social
patterns still sxisted which could be used to stifle the compara-
tively weak foroe of democraoy. Among these were the traditions of
formalism and authoritarianism in roligion, oduoation, and military
life, whioh lent themselves to the prevention of independent and
"dangerous"thought on the part of the general population. Control
of the sooial and intelloctual life of the people was also facili-
tated by the dormitory system, whioh virtually imprisoned many work-
ors. Contacts with the outside world were easily controlled and in
the place of sooial or oultural aotivities organized by the employees
themselves, ritualistio or propagandistio programs were frequently
made compulsory for workers during their "free time".
Sensing that persuasive measures would not alone suooeed in
crushing demooratio thought in Japan, the ruling oligarohy forged a
16-007 P35 bu

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
- 34 -
powerful cceroive weapon in the shape of e law whioh in effeot made
agitation for reform a criminal offence. Under this lew, The Peace
Preservation Act (passed in 1925 and amended in 1928), leaders in
any activity which was aimed at a "change in the national polity"
could be punished by death. Broadly interpreted, this covered any
offort to change the status quo in any department of the national
life, and extended to efforts to improve working conditions. In
practice it was so interpreted, and, backed by government-sanotioned
police brutality, it was effectively used against the progressive
•lements in the trade-union movement.
It should be clearly underatood that the prevention of further
social reform was not the prinoipal objeotive of Japan's rulors. It
might more properly be said that the measures which prevented reform
were an end in themselves, since they accomplished the subjugation of
the Japanese people to the will of a small minority. This oblitera-
tion of the democratic spirit was the chief aim of the Jepanese mili-
tarist-imperialist faction. The reckless military adventures on which
this group was planning to embark required a dooile, unquestioning.
even fanatical tomper on the part of the general population.
B. Wartime Developments
After the war began, industrial workers were inoreasingly sub-
jected to a barrage of government propaganda designed to distract
their attontion from their grievances and paralyse their oritical
faoulties. With longer working hours, a drastio drop in available
consumer services, and heavy demands on all workers for "volunteer"
activitios after working hours, little free tim remmined for "dan-
gerous" thoughts. Yet in l94l the Peace Preservation Aot was revised
to increase its effectiveness as an anti-demooratio weapon. As it
stood after that revision, it authorised the violation of virtually
all oivil rights of any individual even suspected of "disloyal" aot-
ivities, and application of the death penalty was extended to cover
not only leaders of "disloyal" activities, but any persons convioted
of partioipation therein.
However, even this drastio exercise of police power evidently
was not adequate to cope with problems of absenteeism, low produotion,
and insubordination on the job, beoause by 1944 the government felt
compelled to institute a military system for the control of labor in
factories and mines.
The Factory and Workshop supervision Aot was passed in March
1944, and by September of that year applied to all "vital" factories
and nearly 200 mines. This act, the most extensive form of industrial
aisoipline ever applied to a civilian population by its ou guveruut
18-007 P36 bu

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
-35 -
in modern times, was designed to foroe acceptance of well-nigh intol-
crable working conditions, and destroyed the last vestige of freedom
on the part of the Japanese worker to bargain for any improvement in
se conditions. One announced aim of the Aot was "the improvement
of living conditions". But since Japanese authorities agreed that
"this cannot be done hastily without in some cases impeding produo-
tion efficienoy," it was evidontly decided to deel with morale prob-
lezs by cocrcive rather than ameliorative means.
By this measure, which placed almost unlimited power in the
hands of shop foremen, the Japanese worker became virtually subjeot
to martial law whilo at work. Business managomont was divoroed from
plant management where labor control was conoerned, so that "leaders
in the various stages of wors at the factories might have oontrol of
labor and not morely give teolu ical guidanoe". A pseudo-military
system under whioh each worker was given a definite rank with corres-
pondingly olear-out authority and obligations, oarried with it the
power to punish subordinates for infractions of rules, inadequate
performance, and so on.
In the merohant marine, as has been mentioned on p. 22, the
measures adopted to control seamen were partly conciliatory. Never-
theless, the merchant marine had been operating on a semi-military
basis before that system was introduced in factories or mines.
C. Probloms for Military Government
As wartime developments have shown, at least fifteen years of
anti-democratio persuasion and coercion have not succeeded in com-
pletely subjugating Japanese workers, for if this subjugation had baen
aohieved the progressively stronger and more violent measures des-
cribed above would not have been necessary. It can therefore be
stated with some confidence that Military Government will find a
certain number of Japanese who will be able to think independently to
some extent, and act in their own interest. even at the risk of dis-
approval by the traditional authorities.
To disoriminate between those in this group who are mere
opportunists and those who are motivated by genuine demooratic prin-
ciples will be a serious problem for Military Government. Spokosmen
for various groups of workers, inapeotion and enforcement officers
for the bureau controlling safety and hygiene, and other cooperative
Japereso will be aoutely noeded. But such persons must be genuine
cemcorats, not mere fascist turnooats.
Abrogation of the Factory and Workshop Supervision Aot and the
Peace Preservation Act is hereby recommended, not only for the numerous
more obvious remsons, but because failure to annul these laws would
16-007 P37 bu

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
-36 -
complicate the problon of distinguishing opportunists from sinoere
democrats. Since the very qualities of leadership and sinoerity
whioh are most needed would make a worker the target of these laws,
failure to abrogate them would drive underground all damoorats and
demooratio ideas, and leave the field olear for opportunists and
thinly-disguised fasoist propaganda.
If, on the other hand, abrogation of these laws is announoed
immediately, in eaoh factory and workshop sone independent leadership
will emerge, and with it the beginnings of autive cooperation with
occupation authorities. This is the group whioh will grasp the inten-
tion of Military Government in restoring pre-war standards of safety,
hygione, and the proteotion of women and ohildren, and this is the
group from which will come responsible labor spokesmen and trust-
worthy government inspectors.
Elimination of these two laws will permit the emergenoe of
progressive labor leadership, and worker-enforcement of laws regulat-
ing working conditions will be stimulated. However, a further obstaole
in the way of improving working conditions in any industrial or com-
mercial onterprise will be the large volume of unemployment and the
consequent undermining of the bargaining power of employed workers.
If employers are permitted to fire any workers who attempt to improve
working conditions, very few employees will make such attempts, and
the military government will not reap the benefits of deoreased hostil-
ity and inoreased cooperativeness which would acoompany widespread
employee-action in this field. For this reason, it is recommended
that a section be added to the Factory Act, The Rogulations for the
Employment and Relief of Miners, and the Aot Respacting Seamen to pro-
vide that no employee may be dismissed or penalized for membership
or activity in a trade union or other similar organization for the
improvement of working conditions.
Such a provision would be within the authority to regulate
hiring and firing oontained in the enabling acts oovering working
conditions in factories, mines, and the merchant marine. For that
reason its inslusion would probably be accepted as a natural outgrowth
of Japanese law.
While the continued use of dormitories will have many disad-
vantages from the standpoint of democratio developmont on the part of
the workers, and will oonsequently tend to keep working oonditions in
faotories using the dormitory system from improving as rapidly as they
might, housing shortages will probably make alternative arrangemonts
impossible. To minimize the disadvantages of the system it is recom-
mended that the Regulations for Dormitories Attached to Factories be
amended to provide that no employer may require the presenoe of any
16-007 P38 bu

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
-37-
worker in the living quarters nor in any portion of the industrial
premises outside of working hours, and that no employer may prevent
access to the living quarters provided for his workers at any reason-
able hour (Military Government to determine the "reasonableness" of
the hour). Further amendment of the Rogulations to provide for the
free circulation of written and printed material and the free use of
radio facilities in dormitories is also recomended.
Posting of the Regulations for Dormitories attached to Faotories
and of a copy of the rules for management as filed with the prefeotural
governor is recommended as a requirement which will speed up employee
activity for the protection of workers living in dormitories.
In most of the prewar legislation covering working conditions
other than wages and hours, broad disoretionary powers are reserved
to the prefeotural governor. It is therefore recommended that the
powers of the prefectural governor be assumed by the Civil Affairs
Officer in oharge of each prefecture.
Enforcement powers vested in the Munitions Ministry during
the war would most logically be returned to the Bureaus from which
they were taken. However, the role of the polioe in enforcement,
which in the past frequently led to abuss, ought to be eliminated as
soon as possible, and these functions carried out by representatives
of the appropriate bureaus, operating through the reguler courts.
10-007 P39 bu

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
- 38 -
CHAPTER 
APPENDIX: INDEX TO LEGISLATION GOVERNING WORKING CONDITIONS
This iader gives the titles and contents of the laws governing
safety, bygiene, and industrial discipline in prewar Japan. It is
designed to supplement the description of legal standards given in
the text of the report and to provide a key to the body a& complementary
(and sometimes overlapping) decrees and ordinances.
Where feasible, the subject matter of the various relevant lawe
has been indexed by individual sections. In the case of some amending
ordinences, however, the contents are merely summarized. The inder of
subject matter is usually accompanied by recommendatione for revival or
non-revival of the entire law or of specific sections of the lem.
Becanse certain relevant laws contain sections dealing with matters
outside the scope of this report, such irrelevant sections have been
indered separately wherever possible. In addition to indicating the
contents and recommended action for sections of the laws as they were
in effect before the war, the index contains a suggested text for
several new sections the addition of which is recommended. All recom-
mendations, on both old and new sections, are in accordance with the
policy described in the text of the report.
Relevant legislation as amended through 1937 (the last compara-
tively normal prewar year) has been covered as completely as available
sources permit. The Leglslative Series, compiled by the International
Labour Office, gives a complete English translation of mst of the
basic leglslation for the period 1923-l937. ▲ few ordinances not in-
cluded in this series were covered in the periodical Industrial and
Labour Information, also published by the International Labour Office.
A translation of the basic Mining Act (which was passed in 1905 and bence
1s not included in the Legislative Series) was located in the library
of the Department of Labor in Washington, D.C., but later revisions of
this act. and certain supplementary ordinances, were not available.
16-007 P40 bu

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
-39-
FACTORY ACT
Neme, Effective Date, and
Smurce of Law; Pelevance of
Section umber and Subject Yatter
Sections: Recompendation humber Subject Matter
Factory act, No. 46 of
28 Merch 1911, as amended
by Act Ho. 33 of 29 March
1923.
Effective 1 July 1926.
(110 LeE.Ser.1923-Jap.1)
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
1
Coverage
9-11
Women and minors, re: mork hazarda
12
Vaternity (general authority)
13
Authority to order correction or closeup
14
thority to inspect premises
15
Census office furniah free birth record
13,19,22 Responsibility of managers vs. occupiere;
approvel of managers
20
Fine for contravention of Act
21
Jire for obstructing inspection
23
Appeal from actions taken under Act
24
Extension of coverage (revive as amended
in 1929 -- see below)
25
Coverage
Relevent sections, revival
not reconnended:
Suppl'y Various short-term limitations
(4 par.)
Mixed sections, revival
not recompe cet:
17
"Matters respecting hiring, firing, super
vision of employment agencies, and ap-
prenticeship shall be regulated by
Imperial Decree."
Irrelevant sections:
3.4
Hours
7.9
Rest days
15
Compensotion for injury
Sections previously renealed:
2. 5. 6 Various
New secti ons recommonded:
25
"The occupier of every establishment
covered by the Factory Act shall keep
a copy of this Act posted in a place
in which it can easily be read by the
emplovees of the establisnment."
10-007 P41 Du

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
-40-
FACTORY AOT
(contimed)
Name, Mfective Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Becti an Mamber and Mabieot Matter
Sections: Recommendetion
Number Subject Matter
27
"Xo employee may be dimissed or other
wise penalised becanse of memberahip
in a trade union or other organisation
having as its aim the improvement of
working conditions."
Act No. 21, to mend the
Factory Act. Dated 27
March, 1929.
Iffective date not given
in source.
(110 Leg.Ser.1929-Jam.1A)
Relevant sections, revival
recomended:
2 par. Amends Bec. 24 of Factory Act
18-007 P42 bu

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
-41-
ORDINANCE FCR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE FACTORY ACT
Name, Effective Date, and
Source of La; Relevance of
Section lumber and Subject Matter
Sections: RecompendationsHumber
Subject Matter
Imperial Ordinance No. 153
to emend the Ordinance
for the Administration of
the Factory Act. Dated
5 June 1926.
Effective 1 July 1926.
(ILO Leg. Ser.1925-Ja.1B)1/
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
1.2
Types of exempt establiahments
3
Tynes of covered establishments
5
Hedicel care to te sunplied by occupier
18
Authority to order investigation of
injury, sickmess, or death
21
Fegister of workers (Jeneral order)
27 bis
Two wee:e' notice of dismissal
27 ter
Worker's record of employment
32
Apprenticestip. ND to read: "The
provisions of the Factory Act and
of all orders issued under the
Factory Act shall apply at all
times even though the occupier of
the factory describes his workers
as apprentices."
33
Fine for contravention of Act
Suppl.4 Education of workers who have not
completed elementary school
Mixed sections, revival
rec ommended:
27quater Approval of factory rules for hours,
wages, subsistence, discinline, end
dismissal. AEND, adding: "▲ copy of
these rules as currently approved
shall be posted by the occupier in a
place in which it can easily be read
by the empl oyees of the eatablishment
Relevant sections, revival
not recommended:
28 - 31 Apprenticeshin
Irrelevant sections:
4, 6–17,
19,20,27Allowances
22-25Wages
1/ Text given is that of entire Ordinance as amended to date shown.
16-007 P43 bu

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
-42-
ORDINANCE FOR THE ADMI NISTRATI ON OF THE FACTORY ACT
Name, Effective Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Secti on Number and Subject Matter
Sections: Recommendetions
Number
Subject Metter
Supp1.1
Effective date
Supp1.2
Allowances
Supp1.3
Wages
Supp1.5
Wages
Suppl.6
Various snort-term limitations
Sections previously repealed:
26
Education of minors
34-36
Subject not indicated in source
Imperiel Ordinence No. 202,
to anend the Oriinance for
the Administration of the
Factory Act. Dated 25
June 1929.
Effective 1 July 1929
Relevant sectims, revival
recommended;
None
Irrelevant sections:
9.27
Allowances (amends former Becs. 9. 27)
16-007 P44 bu

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
REGULATIONS FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE FACTORY ACT
Name, Effeotive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Seotion Number and Subjeot Matter
Seotions, Recommendation
Number
Subjeot Matter
Ordinance No. 13 of the
Department of the Interi-
or, to amand the Regula-
tions for the Administra-
tion of the Factory Aot.
Dated 7 June 1926.
Effeotive 1 July 1926.
(ILO Log.Sor.1926-Jap.1C)
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
1
Coverage
5
Types of work under Seo. 9 of Faot Aot
6
Types of work under Seo. 10 of Faot.Aot
7
Types of work under Seos. 10 & 1l of
Fact.Aot with respeot to women over 16
8
List of diseases preoluding employment
9
Maternity leave
9 bis
Leave to nurse baby twice daily
10
General authority to prohibit employ-
ment of siok persons
11
Credentials required for inspeotion
14
Calling physioian for examination or p.m.
16-19,22 Required register of workers
21-22
Approval of factory manager
24-26
Roporting of siokness, injury, death
Mixed seotions, revival
recommended:
12
Informing workers of employment rules;
posting of hours, rest periods, eto.
Relevant seotions, revival
not recommended:
Suppl. Various short-term limitations; effeo-
(2 par.) tive date
Irrelevant sections:
2-4
Hours, rest days
12 bis
Wages
13,15
Allowances
14 bis
Allowances
Sections previously repealed:
23
Subjoct not indioated in souroe
1 Text given is that of entire Ordinance as amended to date shown
18-007 P45 bu

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
-44-
REGULATIONS FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE FACTORY ACT
(contimued)
Name, EYfective Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Secti on Mumber and Sub joct Matter
Secticas: Recommendationmber Subject Matter
New seotions recommended:
23
"The occupier of every establishment
covered by the Faotory Aot shall keep
a oopy of these Rogulations posted in
a place in which they oan easily be read
by the employees of the establishment."
Ordinanoe No. 16 of the De-
partment of the Interior,
to amend the Regulations
for the Administration of
the Faotory Act. Dated
27 Maroh 1929.
Effective 1 September 1929.
(ILO Log.Sor.1929-Jap.1B)
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
27
(Adds new Sec. 27) Coverage, register
Relevant seotions, revival
not recommended,
Suppl.
Effeotive date; various short-term
(2 par.)
limitations
Ordinanoe No. 24 of the De-
partment of the Interior,
to amend the Rogulations
for the Administration of
the Faotory Act. Dated
24 June 1930.
Effeotive 1 July 1930.
(ILO Log.Sor.1930-Jap.2)
Irrelevant sections:
3
Amends Seo. 3) Hours
10-007 P40 bu

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
-45-
REGULATIONS CONCERNING ACCIDENT PREVENTION AND HYGIENE
Name, Effective Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Seotion Number and Subjeot Matter
Seotions: Recommendation
Number
Subjoot Matter
Ordinance No. 24 of the De-
partment of the Interior:
Regulations Concerning
Accident Prevention and
Hygiene. Dated June 20,
1929.
Effective 1 Soptember 1929.
(IL0 Log.8er.1929-Jap.4)
Relevant seotions, revival
recommenat:
Coverage (same as Seo. 1 of Faot. Aot)
3
2-28
Protection from meohanical, chemical
and fire hasards
29
Messrooms, washrooms, drinking water
30
Sucking thread from shuttle
31
Lighting and ventilation
32
Provision of first-aid equipment
33
Messroom & kitohen sanitation; diseases
preoluding employment
34
Cloakrooms, bathrooms
35
Authority to order correction
36
Fine for contravention
Relevant seotions, revival
not recommended:
Suppl.
Effeotive date, various short-term
(3 par.)
limitations
10-007 P47 Du

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
-46-
REGULATICNS FOR DORMITCRIES ATTACHED TO FACTORIES
Eme, Effective Date, and
Source af Law; Relevance of
Beation Mumber and Subieat Matter
Seotios: Recomendation
aber Sablect Matter
Ordimance No. 26 of the Do-
partment of the Interior,
to issue Regalations for
Dormitories Attached to
Factories. Dated 6 April
1927.
Rffective 1 July 1927.
(1L0 Los. Ser.1927-Jmm.2)
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
1
Coverage (revive as amended in 1929 -
see below)
2
Separation of dormitories from work-
shops (specified cases); muthority to
order correction or close premises
3-20
Protection from mechanical, chemical.
fire, and health hasards
21
Approval of rules for management of dorm.
22
Pbsting of the Regulations for Dormi-
tories Attached to Factories and of
rules for management of dormitory
23
Ixemptions
Relevant sections, revival
not recomended:
Suppl. Effective date, various short-ters
(3 par.) limitatione
Ordinance No. 36 of the De-
partment of the Interior
to amend the Regulations
for Dormitories Attached
to Factories. Dated 23
Angust 1929.
Effective 1 Soptember 1929.
(110 Les.Ser.1929-Jap.5
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
1
(Amenda Sec. 1) Coverage
3 bie
(Adds new Sec. 3 bis) Mumber of stair-
cases for dorms.; exemptions
3 tor
(Adds new Sec. 3 ter) Keeping stair-
casen free of obstruction
16-007 P48 bu

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
-47-
REGULATIONS POR DORMITORIES ATTACHED TO FAOTORIES
(contimed)
Hame, Effective Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Section Mamber and Subjeot Matter
Secticns: Recomandation
Rumber ableat Matter
Relevant sectioas, revival
not recomsended:
Suppl. Effective date, varions short-term
(2 par.) limitations
New sections recomended:
24
"Mo employer may require the presence
of any worker in the living quarters
provided nor in any other portion of
the industrial premises outside of
working hours, and no employer may
prevent acoess to the living quarters
provided for his workers at any ree-
sonable hour. In cases of dispute,
such hour shall be determined by the
prefectural governor."
25
"No employer may place any obstacle in
the way of the free ciroulation of
written and printed material and the
free use of radio receiving facili-
ties among and by workere during the
houre they are nat actually workin."
16-007 P49 bu

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
-48-
MINING ACT
Name, Effeotive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevanoe of
Seotion Number and Subjoot Matter
Seotions; Reoommendation
Number
Subject Matter
Aot No. 45 of 7 Maroh 1905.
(Mining Aot.)
Effootive 1 July 1905.
(The Mining Law of Japan.
Law No. 45 of the 38th
Year of Meiji (7th March
1905). Translated by J.B.
DeBeoker. Yokohama. Print-
od at the "Japan Mail"
Office. 1905. 24p.)
Relevant and irrelevant seo-
2
tions, revival recommended
1-70
Coverage (state undertakings are inolud-
ed); definitions; procedure for seour-
ing and exeroising mining right; employ-
ment of land; places in whioh mining
may not be carried on; eto.
71
Responsibility of Mines Inspeotion Bureau
for preservation of peace and proteotion
of publio health and welfare, as related
to mining (general authority)
72,74
Authority to order correotion or closeup
73
Approval of mine managers
75
Regulation of hiring and employment
(goneral authority)
76
Register of workers (general order)
77
Worker's record of employment
78
Wages to be paid in ourrenoy at least
onoe monthly
79
Minimum age, hours of work, employment of
women & ohildren (goneral authority)
80
Compensation for illness, injury, or death
if not through "gross fault" of worker
81-93
Tares, petitions, suits, eto.
94-95
Ponalty for mining another's mining right
1 Only amending aot to this aot looated is Mining Aot Amondment Aot, dated 22
July 1924. (ILo Leg.Ser.l92e-Jap.2). The single provision oovere allow-
ances only.
2
Revival of the act in toto is recommonded on the assumption that no later
version exists whioh would be preferable. Irrelevant sections inoluded are
predominantly of a goneral oharaoter.
10-007 P50 bu

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
-49-
MINING ACT
(contimued)
Hame, Effeotive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Seotion Humber and Subjeot Matter
Sections: Recommendation
Humber
Subjoot Matter
96-101
Penalties for contravention of specific
seotions of aot
102-105
Responsibility of agents, minors, sto.
106
"Provisions of Law No. 52 of 1900 are
applicable mutatis mutandis to this
law & orders pursuant to it".
107
Abolishes the Mining Regulations
108-119
Short-term limitations, overlapping juris-
diotions, application ex post facto,
eto.
16-007 P51 bu

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
- 50 -
REGULATIONS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT AND RELIEF OF MINERS
Name, Effeotive Date, and
Source of Lew; Relevance of
Seotion Number and Subjeot Matter
Seotions; Reoommendations
Number
Subjeot Matter
Ordinanoe No. 30 of the De-
partment of the Interior,
to amend the Regulations
for the Employment and
Relief of Miners. Dated
1 September 1928.
Effective 1 September 1930.
(ILO Log.Ser.1928-Jap.1)
Relevant seotions, revival
recommended:
3,4
Register of workers; information required
5
Hours on underground work
6 bi
Hours women & minors may work at high
temp.
11 bis
Employmont of women & minors underground
12,13
Hazardous oocupations banned for women &
minors; operations banned for minors
14
List of diseases preoluding employment
16.16
Maternity leave, nursing leave
18
Provision of medical care
34
Calling physioian for examination or p.m.
37
Reporting of labor disputes
37 bi
Other reports (general authority)
38,40
Fine for contravention of certain seotions
41
Responsibility of mining agent as against
that of holder of mining right
42
Applioation to state mining work
Mixed seotions, revival
recommended:
Details to be supplied in rules of employ-
mont under Soo. 75 of Mining Aot (oover
hiring, firing, wages, hours, disoipline,
education, eto.
Irrelevant seotions:
2
Hours (goneral authority)
6
Hours for women and minors
7,8,9,10 Shifts and rest periods
7 bie
Method of caloulating hours worked
11
Hours (exemptions)
17,19-33,
34 bis Allowanoes
1 Amondments incorporated in text as given in IL0 Log. Series 1926-Jap.2B.
10 007 P52 bu

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
- 51 -
REGULATIONS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT AND RELIEF OF MINERS
(continued)
Mame, Bffeotive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Seotion Mumber and Subjest Matter
Sections; Recommondations
Number
Subjoot Matter
35
Hours
39
Ponalty for evasion of reliof responsi-
bilities
New seotions reoommended:
43
"No employee may be dismissed or other-
wise penalised because of membership
in a trade union or other organisation
having as its aim the improvement of
working sondities."
Ordinanoe No. 16 of the Do-
partment of the Interior,
respecting exemption from
the provisions of ll bis of
the Regulations for the Em-
ployment and Relief of Min-
ers. Dated 5 June 1933.
Effeotive 1 September 1933.
(IL0 Log.Ser.1933-Jap.1)
Relevant seotions, revoca-
tion recommended:
None
Employment of women and minors permitted
on underground work "oonsisting mminly
of gathering up fragmonts of coal".
Ordinanoe No. of the Do-
partment of the Interior,
to amond the Regulations for
the Employment and Rolief
of Miners. Dated 6 July
1936.
Effeotive 1 September 1938.
(ILO, Industrial and Labour
Information, 12 Ootober 1936.
Vol. LX, No. 2. P. 57.)
Relevant sections, revival
recomsended:
Unknown Hours during whioh underground work alto-
gether prohibited for women & minors.
18-007 P83 bu

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
-52 -
REGULATIOMS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT AND RELIEF OF MINERS
(continued)
Name, Bffeotive Date, and
Souroe of Law; Relevance of
Seotion Number and Subjeot Matter
Seotions; Reoommondation
Humber
Subjoot Matter
Ordinanoe No.of the Do-
partment of Wolfare (Min-
istry of Sooial Welfare),
to amend the Regulations
for the Employment and
Relief of Miners. Dated
29 August 1939.
Effeotive date not given.
(Ibid., 29 January 1940.
VoI. LXXIII, No. 5, P. 90.)
Relevant seotions, revoca-
tion recommended:
Unknown Further exemptions to Seo. 11 bis of
The Rogulations for the Employment
and Relief of Miners.
10-007 P54 bu

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
-53-
ACT RESPECTING SEAMEN
Name, Effeotive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Seotion Number and Subjeot Matter
Seotions; Recommendation
Number
Subject Matter
Aot No. 79, Respeoting Sea-
men. Dated 13 August 1937.
Effeotive date not given in
source.
(ILO Log.Ser.1937-Jap.1)
Relevant and irrelevant seo-
1-6
Chapter I - General Provisions
1
Coverage
2
Birth reoords to be furnished free, ete.
3
Permission of parents for employment of
minors as seamen
4
Minimum age provisions
5
Modical cortifioate for minors
6
Seaman's book
7-17
Chapter II - The Master of the Vessel
Imeludes provisions relating to obli-
gation of mmster to save personnel in
case of danger; burial at sea; report-
ing of deaths, disappearanoes, eto.
18-35
Chapter III - Members of the Crew
18
Approval required for change in contract
19
Pay when ill or injured
20
Hages & allowances (goneral authority)
21
Standards for rations (goneral authority)
22
Provision of medical services & supplies
23-28
Conditions under whioh contract between
master and orewman may be terminated
(firing, quitting, loss of ship, eto.)
29
Relief allowances (goneral authority)
30
Repatriation at end of service
31
Employment reoord to be furnished seaman
32
Statute of limitations on olaims by
oremmen against shipowner
33
Relief allowances (also general)
34-40
Chapter IV - Disoipline
Penalties master may impose on orew
or passengers
41-48
Chapter V - Misoellaneous Provisions
41
Conciliation of labor disputes
42
General authority of the Minister of Com-
munisations to request reports, inter-
rogate persons, or punish contravention
of Aot
1 Because irrelevant seotions inoluded here are concerned only with goneral
authority and not with detailed regulations, the revival of the aot in toto
is recommended. (Note suggested amendment of Section 67.)
16-007 P56 bu

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
-54-
ACT RESPECTING SEAMEN (contimued)
ORDINANCES SupPlomenting the ACT RESPECTING SEAMEN
Tame, Bffeotive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevance of
Section Number and Subjeot Matter
Seotions; Reoommendation
coor
Bubjeot Matter
43-45
Responsibility of managers, oharterers,
consuls, eto.
46-47
Coverage
48
Approval of rules for supervision or orew
49-66
Chapter VI - Penal Provisions
Penalties for contravention of Aot
Supp1.
Additional Provisions
67
Effeotive date. AMEND to read: "This
Act shall take effeot immediately."
68
Repeals Aot Concerning Minimum Age for
Admission of Children to Employment et
Sea, also Seo. 575 and Div. 2 of Chap.
II of Book V of the Commeroial Code
69
Application of Aot to events ocourring
before offeotive date of Aot
T0-71
Various short-term limitations
Now seotions recdmanded:
72
"Mo employee may be dismissed or other-
wise penalised because of membership
in a trade union or other organisation
having as its aim the improvement of
working oonditions."
Imperial Ordinanoe No. 135.
Dated 24 Maroh 1938.
Effeotive date not given
in souroe.
(ILO, Industrial and Labour
Information, 28 November
1938. Vo1.LXVIII, No. 9,
pP. 295-299)
Unknown seotions, revival
reoommended:
Unknown Unknown. (ILo souroe summarises oontents.)
Together with Ordinance No. 21 of the
Minister of Communioations (see below).
this Ordinanoe amplifies and supplemonts
the provisions of the Aot Respeoting
Seamon.
1/ Revival of all of the sections of this law is recommended except such as
specifically conflict with the policy of Military Government or with
recommendations made in this report.
10-007 P86 bu

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.94)
-55-
ORDINANCES Sapplementing the AOT RESPECTING SEAMN (contimled)
Name, Effective Date, and
Source of Lew: Relevance of
Rection Mumber and Sabject Matter.
Sections: Recommendation
umber Mabject Matter
Ordinance No. 21 of the
Minister of Commmnications.
Dated 25 March 1938.
Effective date not given
in saurce.
(IIβ, Ibid.
Unknown sections, revival
recomended:1/
Unknown Unknown. (IL0 source summarises con-
tents.) Same general subject matter
as Imperial Ordinance No. 135 (see
above).
1/ Revival of all of the sections of this law is recommended except smch as
specifically conflict with the policy of Wilitary Government or with
recommendations made in this report.
10-007 P57 bu

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
-56-
ACT CONCERNING THE MINIMUM AGE FOR INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT
ACT CONCERNING THE PREVENTION OF THE ILL-TREATMENT OF CHILDREN
Name, Effeotive Date, and
Souroe of Law; Relevanoe of
Seotion Mumber and Subjeot Matter
Seotions: Recommendation
Number
Subjoot Matter
Aot No. S4 Conoerning the
Minimum Age for Industrial
Employment. Dated 29 Maroh
1923.
Effeotive 1 July 1926.
(ILO Log.Ser.1923-Jap.2)
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
1
Coverage (definition of "industry)
2
Mininum age provision. AMEND to omit from
par. 1 the phrase: "Provided that this
rule shall not apply to persons over 12
years of age who have finished the
oourse at an elementary school."
34
Register of workers (general order)
Authority to inspeot premises
5
Consus office must furnish free birth
rooord
6
Fine for contravention of Aot
7
Fine for obstruoting inspeotion
8-10
Responsibility of managers
11
Application to publio enterprises
Aot No. 40 Concerning the
Prevention of the Ill-
Treatment of Children.
Dated 31 Maroh 1933.
Effeotive 1 Ootober 1933.
(ILO Leg.Ser.1933-Jap.3)
Relevant seotione, revival
recommended:
Children defined (as under age 14)
7
Regulation or prohibition of employment
of ohildren mistreated or likely to
be mistreated (general authority)
10
Fine for contravention of Sec. 7
Relevant sections, revival
not recommended:
Supp1.
(1 par.) Effeotive date
Uninown seotions, no
reoommendation:
Unknown Unknown (ILo source gives oontents only
of sections oited above)
16-007 P58 bu-

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
ORDINANCE RESPECTING THE MARKING OF WEIGHT ON HEAVY PACKAGES
Name, Effootive Date, and
Source of Law; Relevanoe of
Seotion Mumber and Subjeot Matter
Seotions: Recommendation
Number
Subjoot Matter
Ordinanoe No. 16 of the Do-
partment of the Interior,
Respecting the Marking of
Weight on Heavy Packages.
Dated 6 May 1930.
Effeotive 1 July 1930.
(ILO Log.Ser.1930-Jap.1)
Relevant sections, revival
recommended:
Roquiromont for marking of weight
2
Fine for contravention
3
Responsibility of legal representatives
4
Responsibility of consignor
Relevant sections, revival
not recommended:
Supp1.
(1 par.) Effective date
1o-007 Pbt nobu-fina'

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
BA-17
CONFIDENTIAL
Copy No.286
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
ADMINIBTRATION OF THE PROPERTY OF TMPERIAL HOUSPHOLD OF JAPAN
Special attention is called to the fact that this document was
substantially completed prior to the surrender of Japan. Persons
using this document are cautioned that its recommendations were
written priar to the acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration and
the Instrument of Surrender. All recommendations must, accordingly,
be critically examined in the light of current U.S. policy.
Soptembor 1945
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 Cover

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-1-
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
By virtue of his position as head of the state, the Eaperor of
Japan has direct control of a large fortune, estimated at over one
billion yen and including extensive forest tracts, farm land, commer-
cial securities, government bonds, palaces and their furnishings, bul-
lion, specie and currency. Legally, title to this fortune is vested
in the Imperial Household, a highly important government institution
consisting of the Emperor and his immediate family and served by a staff
of some 3,000 regular civil employees organised as the Imperial House-
hold Department. The general lines of management and administration
of the property of the Imperial Household ere laid down by law, and
specific procedures are promulgated by the Minister of the Imperial
Household, who directs the Imperial Household Department. The
Iaperial Treasury Bureau of the Department has custody over bullion,
specie, currency and intangibles; the Imperial Forestry and Estates
Buream manages the forests, farms and stock farms, and other properties
are adinistered by particular buremus in connection with their court
functions.
This immense fortune presents special problems to the Military
Government. The convertability of a good part of the properties to
cash makes them particularly susceptible to use in financing hostile
political and military activities. Stockholdings in certain key corporations
and banks, such as the Yokohama Specie Bank and the Japan Mail Steamship
Co. may offer opportunities for economic obstruction to the policies
of the Military Government anthorities. The use of certain of the
properties, such as productive forests and farms, may be needed in
connection with functional Military Government programs. Moreover,
it is quite possible that much of this property may be concealed or
transferred clandestinely to others, for the purpose of evading fines,
ponalties or seisure for ultimate disposition in accordance with policy
to be determined later. Finally, much of the property, such as
palaces, exhibition halls and estates, will be particularly liable
to looting.
To solve these problems, a close control of the crown proper-
ties by the Military Government will be necessary. The most effective
mothod of control will be to manage the properties as a unit through
the old Imperial Household Department, provided that over-all policy
will permit the complete separation of the Department and its of-
ficials from the control and influence of the Emperor. The degree
of MG supervision will vary with the category of property, and the
actual organisational structure available to MG will depend, among
other things, on the sise of the occupied area and whether the central
headquarters of the Department is included in that area. A proposed
program, which it is believed will provide the most effective control
of the property of the Imperial Household, may be found in detail
in Chapter V below. This recommended program may be summarized
as follows:
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-11
1. A Crowm Property Custodian should be appointed from the staff of
Nilitary Government to vest title or assume custodial title to the
Imperial Household properties on behalf of Military Government and
to take general control of the management, accounting and records
thereof. The MG officer placed in charge of the Imperial House-
hold Department might well serve concurrently as Crown Property
Custodian.
2. All transfers of title to property prior to vesting of
title in or assumption of control by the Crown Property Custodian
should be declared invalid if they took effect on or after 7
December 194l,unless they were made to purchase the necessities
of life for the Emporor and the Court, to pay the salaries of re-
gular Imperial Household Department employees or to pay for customary
property maintenance. After assumption of control,all transfers except for
the above purposes should be prevented,
3. A rough inventory of Imperial Household properties as of the
date of invasion should be maintained or compiled as soon as possible.
As soon as convenient, a detailed inventory should be made.
4. All officials who by their records may be expected to be most
loyal to the Imperial Household or hostile to MG should be ruled in-
eligible to hold positions of authority with respect to Imperial
Household properties. It is suggested that those ruled ineligible
should include all Japanese who actively participated in a respon-
sible capacity in the formulation or execution of Japanese imperial-
ist policies prior to 7 December 194l or in the prosecution of the
Pacific War since that date and also all personal appointees of the
Emperor, 1.e. those holding shinnin or chokunin rank.
5. The Civil List should be terminated. The day-to-day living
expenses of the Emperor or his immediate family, if in MG custody,
should be paid out of goverrmental revemues. Expenses in connection
with crown property maintenance and salaries of the regular employees
of the Imperial Household Department should be paid out of the pro-
ceeds of the crown properties.
6. Bullion, specie, currency, securities and negotiable instru-
ments should be carefully listed and turned over to the financial
section of MG.
7. Management of forests, farms and livestock should be con-
timued, with the customary procedures, in the Imperial Household
Forestry and Estates Bureau, in its present form or in some modtfied
form, under the general supervision of the Crown Property Custodian.
A regular liaison should be set up with other MG agencies to enlist
these properties in any production program deemed essential to
military security or the tranquility of the civil population. Where
wartime conditions make it impossible for the tenants on Imperial
Household farms to pay the customary rent, evictions should not be
10-008 P2 Du

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
resorted to since they would interfere with food production and would
probably contribute to agrarian unrest. Rent receipts above the
amount needed for managing the properties should be transferred to
the financial section of MG.
8. The palace or estate actually used by the Emperor and his im-
mediate family as living quarters might be safely left to the manage-
ment of the Emperor. All other palaces, estates, exhibition halls,
museums, etc., should be sealed after inventory by the Crown Property
Custodian.
9. All transportation facilities should be reported immediately
to the Crown Property Custodian who should make them available to
the occupying forces.
10. Destruction or removal of accounts and records should be pro-
hibited. With the seizure or sealing of certain categories of pro-
perty, particularly the confiscation of bullion, specie, currency and
realisable securities by MG, the assignment of accounting functions
will have to be changed somewhat, but oustomary accounting procedures
should be retained where possible.
16-008 P3 nobu

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Summary
1
Chapter I. Legal Status of Imperial Household Property
1
A. Definition of Imperial Household Property
1
B. Laws affecting Imperial Household Property
1
1. Imperial House Law
1
2. Imperial Household Property Ordinance
1
3. Imperial Household Accounting Ordinance
2
4. Rules for the Application of the Imperial Household
Accounting Ordinance
2
C. Legal status of Imperial Household Property with re-
spect to the Japanese Government
2
D. Legal status of Imperial Household Property with re-
spect to Comercial Transactions
333
1. Hereditary Property
2. Ordinary Property
Chapter II. Extent and Value of the Property of the Imperial
Household
5
A. General
5
B. Crown Forests
6666
1. Extent and Value
2. Location
3. Hereditary and Ordinary forests
4. Forest production and income
7
5. Property and activities associated with the crown
forests
7
C. Agricultural Land
8
1. Extent and Value
8
2. Location, Status and income
8
D. Securities
999
1. Kinds of securiti es
2. Value and income from stockholdings
3. Nature of Imperial Household interest in corpora-
tions and banks
9
4. Economic influence of the Imperial Household
through corporate investments
11
a. Bank of Japan
11a
b. Yokohama Specie Bank
12
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P5 bu

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Pag
E. Imperial estates and other real property
12
P. Bullion, specie, currency and movable property
13
G. Income and expenditures
14
E. Property of the Imperial Princes
14
I. Effect of the War on Imperial Household Property
15
Chapter III. Administration of Imperial Household Property
16
A. General
16
B. The Euperor and his advisers
16
C. The Imperial Housahold Department
17
1. The Minister of the Imperial Household
17
2. The Imperial Treasury Bureau
18
3. Imperial Forestry and Estates Bureau
19
4. Imperial Mows
20
5. Other Regular Bureaux
20
6. The Imperial Princes
20
7. Board of Imperial Anditors
21
8. Special Committees
21
9. Personnel
22
Chapter IV. Accounting and Records
23
A. General
23
B. Accounts
23
1. Responsible officials
23
a.) Officials in Charge of Receipt and Disburse-
23 23 23 23 24 24 25 5 5 5
ment of Funds
b.) Assigned Accounts Officials
c.) Deputy Assigned Accounts Officials
2.
Form of Accounts
a.) Ordinary Accounts
b.) Imperial Capital Accounts
c.) Special Accounts
3.
Accounting Procedures
4.
Budget
a.) Compilation and approval
b.) Balancing the books and auditing
25
c.) Form of the budget
5.
Receipt and Disbursement of Funds
26
a.) Receipts
26
b.) Disbursements
26
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 Pa bu

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
--
Page
c.) Advance paymnts
26
d.) Borrowing
26
6. Contracts
27
C. Records
27
1. Deeds, titles, maps of agricultural and forest land
27
2. Deeds, titles, plans of building
27
3. Hereditary Property Records
27
4. Records of stocks of bullion or specie
27
Chapter V. Problems and Courses of Action
28
A. Mecessity for Military Government Control of Imperial House-
hold property
28
1. Preventing hostile activities
28
2. Insuring final disposition
28
3. Purthering the purposes of MG
29
4. Protecting works of art and other cultural mater-
ials
29
B. Methods of Control
29
1. Splitting up of crown properties
29
2. Management through Imperial Household Department
30
C. Degree of Supervision
30
1. Bullion, specie, ourrenoy, negotiable instruments and
other intangibles
30
2.
Forests, farms, livestock and productive estates
30
3.
Living quarters, furnishings and personal
property needed for the day-to-day existence of
the Emperor and his family
30
4.
Museums, exhibition halls and abandoned palaces
and estates
31
D. Recommended Program
31
1. Appointment of Crown Property Custodian
31
2. Invalidation of transfers
32
3.
Inventory of Imperial Hosehold properties
32
4.
Removal of untrustworthy officials
33
5.
Civil List
33
6.
Bullion, specie, currency, negotiable instruments
33536
and other intangibles
7.
Productive forests and farms
8.
Palaces, estates, museums and axhibition halls
9.
Motor vehicles and similar facilities
10. Accounting and records
36
11. Anditing
37
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P7 bu

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
vii
APPENDICES
Page
Appendix A.
Total Forest Area and Crowm Forests 1914-1939
38
B.
Timber production of Crown Forests
39
C.
Stock-holdings of Imperial Household
and Their Estimated Value
40
D.
Income of Dmperial Household from
Stock-holdings
43
E.
Imperial Estates in 1935
45
F.
Stock-holdings of Imperial Princes in
Japanese Corporations (Aug 1940)
47
G.
Branches and Stations of the Imperial
Forestry and Estates Bureau
49
LIST OF CHARTS AND HAPS
After page
Figure 1.
Forest Areas owmed by the Imperial
Household in Hokkaido
6
II.
Organization of the Imperial Household
July 1943
17
III.
Organization of Bureaus with Special
Property Functions in the Imperial
Household Department,July 1943
18
16-008 Pa bu

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
I. LEGAL STATUS OF IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD PROPERTY
A. Definition of Imperial Housohold Property
By the term "Imperiel Household Property", or as it is fre-
quently referred to in this quide, "crown property", is meant all
objects, real and personal, to which the Imperial Pemily has title
and which are under the direct control of the head of the Imperial
Family, namely the Emperor. While the Imperial House Law (Koshitan
Tempan Art. 30) defines the Imperial Family to inalude the Imperial
Prinoes and Princesses as well as the imediate family of the Em-
peror (i.e., Eapress, Empress Dowager, Grand Empress Dowager, the
Crown Prince and his brothers and sisters, and the eldest son of
the Crown Prince), by law the Imperial Princes are permitted to set
up their own houses and their property is outside the direct juris-
diction of the Emperor. Nevertheless, to the extent that the prop-
orty holdings of these houses (miya), which mmbered fourteen in
1943, are considered to be significant in terms of potential control
by the Emperor and his Household ministers, they are treated in this
Guide. For the most part this Guide is devoted to the property hold-
ings of the immediate Imperial Family.
B. Lawa Affecting Imperial Household Property
The property holdings of the Imperial Family are considered
to be a direct concern of the state and their legal status and man-
agement are defined in four principal laws:
1. Imperial House Law (Koshitsu Tempan) of February 1l,
1889, supplemented in 1907 and 1908. Aside from questions of prop-
erty inheritance, which are identical with the question of succes-
sion to the throne, Artioles 45-54 deal with Imperial hereditary
ostates, the expenditures of the Imperial Household, and property
litigation. Article 6l authorizes further legialation concerning
property and anmual expenditures. In very general terms, the Impe-
rial House Law draws the legal distinction between "Hereditary"
and "Ordinary" property (q.v. below), establishes the Civil List,
provides for accounting of Imperial property and commeroial trans-
actions within the Imperial Household Department (Kunai-aho) and
determines the logal status of Imperial Household Property vis-a-
vis third parties.
2. Imperial Household Property Ordinance (Koshitsu Zaisan-
rei), Imperial Family Ordinance No. 33, December 24, 1910, amended
in 1924, approved pursuant to deliberatione of the Imperial Family
Council and the Privy Council. This law goes into much greater
detail than the Imperial House Liw on the same property subjects
treated by the latter. In addition it provides for a system of re-
cord-keeping, for the establishment of the succession to independ-
ent estates or houses (miya) by Imperial Princes, and for the super-
vision of the financial affairs of the Crown by an Imperial House-
hold Economic Coumcil (Moshitsu Keisai Kaig1).
CONFIDENTIAL
16-000 P0 Du

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
3. Imperial Household Accounting Ordinance (Koshitsu Kaikei-
rei) Imperial Household Department Ordinance, No. 2, July 10, 1912,
amended in 1912, 1919, 1921, 1924, 1928, and 1933. This ardinance
sets up the form of the accounts and the budget, establisbes pro-
cedural rules with regard to income, expenditures, and contrasts,
and designates responsihla officials within ths Imperial Household
Department.
4. Rules for Application of the Imperial Household Account
ing Ordinance (Koshitsu Kaiksi-rei Shikko Kisoku), Imperial Household
Department Ordinance No. 6, July 10, 1912, amended in 1912, 1914, 1915,
1921, 1922, 1923, 1924, 1928, 1930, 1933, and 1939. This ordinance
sets up detailed procedural regulations dealing with investments, bul-
lion, budgets, income and expenditure and contracts.
C. Legal Status of Imperial Household Property with respect to
the Japanese Government
It is impossible to define with precision the present Japanese
theory concerning the legal relationship between the property of the
Imperial Household and the Japanese government without becoming en-
meshed in the suttle disputations in which chauvinist exploitation
of Shinto has involved Japanese constitution lawyers. Howerer, sev-
eral general principles are clear in practise:
1. There is a clear distinction between the entire national
wealth which is in theory the property of the Emperor as the head of
the "national family" and the property of the Imperial Household.
There is also a clear legal distinction between the property of the
state, which belongs to the Emperor as the personification of the
state, and the property of hishousehold.
2. Certain exercises of government functions towards ordi-
nary priwate property do nct apply to the property of the Imperial
Household. Crown property cannot be the ohject of taxation, nor may
the right of eminent domain be applied to it for public purposes.
3. The property of the Imperial Household appears to have
a legal status beyond that of private property or even beyond priv-
ileged private property. Its disposition and management are deter-
mined by public laws. The high officials of the Imperial Household
department, who direct the management of crown properties, are high
governmont officials chosen as much for their abilities with referenoe
to state policy as to crowm property. The administrative employees
are regular civil service employees with regular civil service ranks
and are paid from the national treasury by the Civil List. Much of
the property itself was acquired by donation from the national gov-
ernment or its subdivisions; scme of it ias seen returned subeequently
to the government.. This flexibility in shifting jurisdiotiou from the
Imperial Household to a cabinet department and back is particularly
CONFIDENTIAL
16 008 P10 bu

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
evident in the boundaries of forest areas, wbere land has been shifted
from the Imperial Household Department to the Department of Agriculture
and Forestry and vice versa on mumerous occasions. In general, it mmy
be said that the Imperial Household holds almost all of its property
solely by virtue of the fact that the Emperor is the head of the state
(or in current Japanese obfuscatory verbiage, is the state) ratber than
as a purely private family holding, and that by and large of it may be
considered in the nature of quasi-public property.
D. Logal Status of Imperial Household Property with Respect to
Commercial Transactions
All property of the Imperial Household is divided into two
categories, Hereditary and Ordinary, by the Imperial House Law. The
legal status of each with respect to commercial transactions is quite
different.
1. Hereditary Property (seiden zaisan) consists of real or
personal property which has been so designated by Imperial writ (chok-
usho) with the advice of the Privy Council. I- is inalienable. Sinoe
it is legally nontransferable, it cannot be mcie the object of sale,
donation or other action involving change of title. Furthermore, it
cannot become the objeet of complusory legal execution. However, cer-
tain rights in rem with respect to real Hereditary Property may be
oreated by the Emperor with the advice of the Privy Council on oc-
casions where such action is essential for the public benefit. In
the case of Hareditary Property, moreover, the Real Property Registre-
tion Law is inapplicable and is superseded by a public announoement
of the Minister of the Imperial Household. Hereditary Property may
be transferred to the Ordinary Property category by Imperial writ
after consultation with the Privy Council.
2. Ordinary Property (futsu zaisan). Except for Hereditary
Property, all crcwn property, including revemue from Hereditary Prop-
erty, is "Ordinary" Property and may be bought and sold, or otherwise
disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code. Lit-
igation with reference to Ordinary Property follows the regular rules
laid dowa by the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure. In such
litigation the Imperial Household is represented by the Minister of
the Imperial Household or by a bureau or section chief within the In-
perial Household Department whom he designates. There are only three
major exceptions to the general rule that Ordinary Property has the
legal status of private property.
a. Where the Civil Code and the Imperial House Law con-
flict, as in the questions of inheritance, the latter applies.
b. Crown Ordinary Property is not subject to public
taxation.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P11 bu

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.93)
-4 -
CONEIDENTIAL
o. In the case of forests and estates, the boundary
lines are 'decided in the first instance by the Imperial Household
Forestry and Estates Bureau (Koshitsu Rinya-kyokm) of the Imperial
Household Department and are considered final if no suit has been
brought by adjoining property owners within three months of the of-
ficial notification of such delineation.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P12 bu

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
CONRIDENTIAL
-5-
II. EITENT AND VALUE OF THE PROPERTY OF THE IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD
A. General
The property of the Imperial Household rivals that of Jepen's
wealthiest families in value. Its holdings, which include vast tracts
of forest land, considerable farm land, commercial securities, govern-
ment bonds, palaces, residences, estates, hunting and fishing preserves,
and museums, are estimated to have been worth in the neighborhood of
one hillion yen in 1939-40. While its revemues from these properties
are difficult to estimate, they are believed to have amounted to at
least 30 million yen in 1939, exclusive of the 4.5 million yen allotted
anmally by the Treasury Department (Ckura-sho) for the Civil List.
Since its total expenditures amounted to about 20 million yen anmally,
the Imperial family was financially independent of the Japanesgovern-
ment, and any of its departments or agencies outside of its own Im-
perial Household Department.
This great wealth, of course, has been translated into eoo-
nomic power, but to a lesser extent than might be axpected. Stock-
holdings of the Imperial Household are extraordinarily heavy in a
few of Japan's key business institutions, such as the Bank of Japan,
Yokohama Specie Bank, and the Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan Mail Steam-
ship Co.) but ownership rights in such semi-public corporations are
closely circumscribed by law and elsewhere crown stockholdings are
tco small to convey economic power. What is more importart is that
the record of these stockholdings shows a community of financial
interest with the "zaibatsu" (big business) combines. In general
this community of interest is closest with the older "zaibatsu" com-
bines such as Mitsui and Mitsubishi; in contrast, the Imperial House-
hold appears to have little financial interest in the new "konzerns",
such as the Nissan interests. Pegional interests are particularly
clear in Hokkaidc. wnere most of the crow fcrests are lecated and
where stocks are hald in regional coal mining, paper, railway, bank-
ing and development enterprises. Little direct interest is evidenced
in the Japanese euterprises of the newly conquered regions, such as
Central and North China, and the financial interests of the Imperial
Household are proportionately smaller in Manchuria and Korea than in
Japan Proper.
In the sactions wnich follow, an attempt is made to list and
evaluate the principal categories of Umperial Household pruperty.
The sources of information available on this subject outside of Japan
are extsemely limited and the survey which follcws is admittedly in-
complete. Nevertreless, on the as:mption that a general idea of the
range and tctal value of the crowm properties as well as the ircome
therefrem is necessary for intelligent Civil Affairs planning with
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P13 bu

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
6-
respect to the Imperial Household property, estimates have been
made wherever sufficient data have been available. Guidance as to
where additional information may be obtained in Japan during the
military occupation is given below in Chapter IV Accounting and
Records.
B. Crown Foreste
1. Extent and Value. So far as is knowm, the forest areas
owned by the Imperial Household constitute the largest single cate-
gory of crown property. In 1939, the crown forests covered an aree
of 1,334,000 cho (3,270,000 acres) or 5.5 per cent of all the forests
of Japan Proper. Assuming that the unit-area value of the wooded
portion (1,195,000 cho) owned by the crown was oqual to that owned
by the state, or about 303 yen per cho in 1939, the value of the
wooded area may be estimated at about 362,000,000 yen. The remainder
of the forest tracts, consisting of mountains and deforested plain,
would have brought the total 1939 value of the crown forests to about
380,000,000 yen. However, considering that the crown forosts are
generally of better quality than the national forests, the total value
of crown forests is probably somewhat higher.
2. Location. The crown forests are located entirely in cen-
tral and northern Japan. The Imperial Household owns no forest
tracts or the islands of Kyustiu or Shikoku, or wost of Kyoto pre.
fecture on the island of Honshu. The bulk of the crown forests
(901,000 cho or 2,207,000 acrəs) is situated on the island of Hak-
kaido, where it accounts for a seventh of ali forest land. (See
Figure No. I) Extensive forest tracts along the Kiso River in the
profectures of Nagano and Gifu and in the Oi River valley in Shisuaka
prefecture are also possessed by the crown. The Kiso. forests are
particularly valuable; it has been said of them that "the crown
forests cf Kiso stand first on tha list of largest and most valumble
forests in Japan." Scattered forest tracts of varying extent are
also hald in Aomori, Iwate, Fuknshima, Tochigi, Gumma, Chiba, Tokyo,
Kanagawa, Yamanashi, Aichi, Miye and Nara prefectures. (See Appendix
6)
3. Hereditary and Ordinary forests. While a considerable portion
of the crown forests has been designated as Hereditary Property and there-
fore inalienable without the spscific consent of the Privy Council, five-
sixths of the crown forests have been transferred to the crown in recent
times and are listed as Ordinary Property. All of the extensive Hokkaido
tracts are ordinary property, having been turned over to the Imparial
Household by the Hokkaido government in 1889. More than 2,000, 000 cho
were originally given to the Imperial Household at this time, but mub-
sequently. tracts were returned to Hokkaido from time to time and are
CONFIDENTIAL
15-008 P14 Du

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
PROVISIONAL
EDITION
UNRESTRICTED
140
141
142
143
144
145
46
JAPAN
HOKKAIDO
FOREST AREAS OWNED BY
THE IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD
45
45
o
20
40
60
80
150
MILES
C
20
60
100
140
KILOMETERS
44
44
Asohigawo
Sapporo
43
Kushiro
43
145
Muroran
KARAFUTO
42
45
45
Hakodafe
HOKKAIDO
40
41
Forest oreos owned by the
CHOSEN
Imperial Household
HONSHU
SOURCE
Chiri Koza (Geographic Essays),
35
35
Vol I, "Koratuto-Hokkoido
Tokyo, 1933.
SHIKOKU
JAPAN
KYUSHU
40
140
142
143
130
135
140
145
NO 2075-M
FEBRUARY 20, 1945
DRAWN IN THE
MAPS
AND
GRAPHICS DIVISION, F.E A
Figure 1
G 4420

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
CONPIDEITIAL
now part of private or state forests. The Kiso farests in Central
Honsbu, on the other hand, are largely Hereditary Property. Prior
to the 1867 Restoration they were held by the Owari clan, but were
yielded up to the national government in 1868 and were presented to
the Imperial Household in 1889. As in the case of the Hokkmido for-
ests, a portion was subsequently returned to the national government
to becoke national forest.
4. Forest productien and income. For the most part, the
crowm forests consist of broad-leafed trees but the lumbering is
carried on to a larger extent in the coniferous tracts. In 1939,
1,647,617 oubio meters of timber (of which 942,065 cubic meters mas
coniferous and 705,552 oubic meters was of the broad-leafed vari-
eties) was produced from the crown forests with a value of 24,105,000
yen (17,554,000 yen coniferous and 6,571,000 yen broad-leafed). (See
Appendix B) This return was considerably higher than shown in pre-
vious years and is accounted for partly by increased forest exploita-
tion and partly by the higher price of timber.
The net income available to the Imperial Household from its
lmmbering activities is difficult to estimate. However, a comparison
of 1936 and 1939 production figures is instructive. In 1939, males
amommted to 24,000,000 yen as against 10,000,000 yen in 1936, while
prodmstion sbowed a mmch smsller increase to 1,650,000 cubic meters
from 1,300,000. If it is assmed that the 1936 operations were prof-
itable, even allowing for the increased cost of greater production,
the 1939 net imeome from forestry operations must have been at least
10,000,000 yen, and was probably somewhat higher. 1/
Forest products other than timber were negligible. The total
value af bamboo produots was only 1234 yen in 1939, while charcoal
and firewood was not even listed in the forestry reports.
5. Property and activities associated with the crowm foresta.
The Imperial Household in 1936 utilized 38,958 cho (about 100,000
aores) of its forest domain for pasturing livestock, consisting of
2,324 horses and 9,661 head of cattle. Annual sales are not pre-
cisely known, but are believed to amount to a few hundred thousand
yen anmmally.
In much of the forest area, particularly in the Kiso forests,
spocial nmarrow gauge railways have been constructed for logging pur-
poses. The total langth of these lines in the Kiso valley mounted
the mame proportion as the volume of production because much of the
production cost was fixed. The Civil List covers the salaries of
the regular employees of the Imperial Forestry and Estates Bureau
and most of the equipment used requires no further outlay. Further,
the capital equipment necessary, e.g., forestry, railways, tools,
eto. is rather constant. It is difficult to see how forestry operat-
ing expenses could have amounted to more than a few million yen an-
mmlly.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P15 b

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
COLFIDENTIAL
-8-
to 76 miles in 1938. Similar lines are believed to have been con-
struoted in Hokkaido. The Imperial Household is also a part owmer
of several neighboring commercial railways, such as the Rumae Tstsedo
KK (Rumae Railway Co.) in Hokkaido and the Oikawa Tetsudo KK (Oikawa
Railmey Co.) in Shisuoke prefecture.
Because of its forestry holdings, the Imperial Household
has also been interested in paper milling and owms considerable
shares in the Oji Seishi KK (Oji Paper Mamfacturing Co.) whiah
processes almost all Hokkaido lumber used for this purpose.
C. Arrioultural Land
1. Extent and Value. At the end of 1938, the Imperial House-
hold owmed 39,391 cho (96,500 ecres) of agri tural land or 0.65%of
all cultivated land in Japan Proper. Unfori ately, very little is
known about the grade or type of land. Howevs', using as a basis of
caloulation the 1939 market prices of ordinary agrioultural land,
which were 5760 yen per cho for paddy fields and 3430 yen per cho
for uplands, the value of crown farm land may be estimated at from
226,900,000 yen (assuming it is completely paddy) to 135,100,000 yen
(assuming it is completely upland) or roughly in the neighborhood of
of 180,000,000 yen (assming half paddy and half upland). (Buildings,
farm implements, livestock and other appurtenances are not inalwded
in this estimate.) It may be added that land prices have contimmed
to rise since then and that consequently the crown farm lands are
worth considerably more in terms of the 1945 yen. 2/
The extent of present farm holdings is much smaller than
formerly. In 1924, the Imperial Household omed 164,259 cho (er
402,435 acres), but disposed of most of this property during 1926-29,
presumably in order to make more prafitable investments.
2. Location. status and income. Little is available as to
the location of the crown farms and nothing is kmown conoerning their
number, method of cultivation, crops and so forth. All of the crowm
farms are "Ordinary Property", and may be sold or otherwise alienated.
The only crowm farming tracts definitely kmown are four in mmber,
with a total area of 1758 cho (4307 aares) and were all located in
Aiehi prefeoture in 1935. in Daimine-mura, Kita Shitara-gun.
Exact figures on orown income from farming are unevailable.
If the 1939 figures of 381 yen rent per cho on paddy land and 169 yen
rent per cho on uplands, which ware reported from irvestigations, are
taken as a basis for estimate, crewn income from farm land may be
2/ In 1941, prices were 6880 yen per cho for paddy 1and and 4180 yen
per cho for upland. Resultant values of crown farmland would
therefore heve amounted to from 271,000,000 yen to 165,000,000 yen.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P16 Du

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
COMPIDENTIAL
-9-
calculated at from 15,010,000 yen (if all crown farms were paddy) to
6,670,000 yen (if all crown farms were upland), or in the ne1ghbor-
hood of 10,000,000 yon.
D. Securities.
1. Kinda of securitieg. The securities owmed by the Imperial
Household fall into three categories: corporate stooks, corporate
bonds, and government bonds. of these, adequate information is avail-
able only in the first category. No information is available on cor-
porate bonds except that the Imperial Household holds bonds of the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan Mail Steamship Company). It is kmown that
the Imperial Household owns considerable quantities of mumicipal and
national govarnment bonds; 20,000,000 yen worth of national bonds were
bought during the Russo-Japanese war of 1905 and repeated attention is
given to the treatment of government bonds in the accounting laws. In
addition, the crown is known to own quantities of Tokyo and Osaka mu-
nicipal securities. The total holdings of government bonds are thougirt
to amount to at least 100,000,000 yen or more and may be several times
that figure. 3/
2. Value and Income from Stookholdinga. Total crown holdings
of commeroial stock as compiled from corporation yearbooks, consisted
in August 1940 of 1,062,674 shares beld in 30 banks and corporations
with a combined value of 73,637,238 yon and a combined market value of
160,000,000 yen. (See Table III) The annual income derived from div-
idends declared on these stocks amounted to about 6 million yen in
1938 aad 1939. (Se0 Table IV)
3. Nature of Imperial Housohold interest in corporations and
banka. The heeviest concentration of crown investment in August 1940
was in banking institutions, with about 119,000,000 yen or three-quar-
ters of all commercial stock held. Shipping companies were next with
16,000,000 yen, tion mining with 7,500,000 yen, paper with 4,700,000
yen, railroads with 3,400,000 yen, sugar with 3,200,000 yen, and util-
ities with 2,500,000 yen. Stock was also held in insurance, trust
and colonization companies and in the Imperial Hotel.
An analysis of the investment pattern in Angust 1940 reveals
several interesting facts:
a. The bulk of the investments are in relatively low div-
idend, safe investments or "sure-things".
2
If it is assumed that the Imperial Household averaged a surplus of
5,000,000 yen anmually for the past twenty years and if it is as-
sumen that the sales of 120,000 cho of farm land in the early twenties
brought 200,000,000 yen, then the Imperial Household had 300,000,000
yeh available for investment. Since comparatively little investment
has been made in corporate stook since 1925, it is quite likely that
most of this huge sum has been invested in bonds of various kinds.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P17 b

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-10-
b. Industrial stooks are few and hald usually in eon-
junction with special regional interests. For estumple, the beavy
holdings in paper manmfacturing (oji Seishi K, to the extent of
4,692, 340 yen) and mining (Hokicaido Tanko Lisen XK to the eaxtant of
7,562,198 yen) are reflections of the large forest holdings in Hok-
kaido, and the desire to develop that region industrially to the
benefit of forest exploitation. The Rumae Tetsudo Kk (Rumme Rail-
way Co.) in which the Imperial Household holds stock, is libewise
a small Hokkaido line near certain crown forests while the Yubari
Tetsudo KK (Yubari Railway Co.) lies near coal deposits owmed by
the Hokkaido Tanko Kisen KK. Similarly, the Cikmama Tetsudo K
(0ikawa Railway Co.) investment of 396,000 yen is relatively in-
significant and is explained by the adjacent crown forests in the
O1 River basin.
c. While the Imperial Household does hold shares im
companies set up to further national foreign policies, these are
all older companies operating in regions penetrated or conquered
some time ago. The Taiman Seito KK (Formose Sugar Co.) im which
the crown held 3,215,380 yen worth of stook in kugast 1940, 1s fi-
nanced principally by the Bank of formoee, in which the Imperial
Household also holds shares, and bas been subsidised for years by
the Formosan Government General to develop a needed supply of suger
and alcohol. The South Manohrian Railway, in which 2,720,625 yen
worth of shares are held by the Imperial Household, has been em
instrument of Japanese polioy for desades. Fimally, the Toyo
Takushoku KK (Oriental Colonisation Co.) whose crown holdings were
worth 1,656,250 yen in Angust 1940, owns and direots in varying
degrees a mmber of relatively "respectable" enterprises such as
the Man-mo Geshoku KK (Manohuria-Mongolia Wool Co.), Miahimmn
Seibun IK (Japan-Manchuria Flour Milling Co.), Hanyo Kobatsu KK
(South Seas Development Co., which operated sugar plantatiens,
sugar mills, and shipping lines in the former Japanese Mandated
Islands), Chosen Tetsudo KK (Koree Railway Ce.), Choeen Sekiyu I
(Korea Petraleum Co.), and Hichiro Gyogye XK (Rasso-Japamese Fish-
ing Co.), Into this patterm fit the Dmperial holdings in the
"colonial" banks, such as the Taiwan Giako (Bank of Formose) and
Choser Ginko (Bank of Korea), Chosen Shokusan Gimko (Korea Col-
onisation Bank) and Hokkaido Takushoku Ginko (Hokkmaido Colomisa-
tion Bank).
d. A mumber cf the most important compamies in which
the Imperial Household had isveste? heavily are firms which have
become deeply involved in the prosecution of the war against the
United States and in the exploitation of the conquered Asiatic re-
gions. The Hippon Ginko (Bank oi Japan), for example, has become
the prinoipal institution whereby funds are ehammaled for mumitiens
production, while the Yokohama Shokia Giako (Yekohama Speeie Bark)
has been responsible for financing mmch of the "development" of
Southeast Asia and has inoreased the mumber of its braneh offioes
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P18

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
COMFIDENTIAL
-11-
in that area from 10 in 1936 to 53 in 1943. The Nippon Yusen Laisha
(Japan Mail Steamahip Co.) and the Osaka Shosen Kaiaba (Osaka Com-
maroial Ship Co.) have both participated in the shipping administra-
tion of the occupied areas. It is clear that the Imperial Household
is at least indirectly engaged, therefore, in financing the Pacific
War.
e. Absence of financial interest in certain lines of
activity is significant. For aample, the Imperial Household holds
no financial interest in any of the companies which participated in
the new militarist foreign policy prior to Pearl Harbor, such as the
Manahuria Heavy Industry Company, the North China Development Com-
pany and the Central China Development Company. As of August 1940,
it also held no stock in the newly developed war industries such as
machinery, light metals, aircraft, synthetic oil, or communication
apparatus, nor even in the older war industries such as iron and
steel or ship-building. This means that few of the companies in
which the Imperial Household held stook will be completely wiped
out by the industrial disarmament palicies to be applied by Mi.
f. In general, the financial interests of the crown as
revealed by its stock-holdings indicate a community of interest with
the older zaibatm (big business) concerns such as the Mitsui,
Mitsubishi, Sumitomo trusts and the Tokyo Eloctric Light Co. Aside
from small holdings in the old saibatan banks, the crowm has a large
interest in the Nippon Tusen Kaisha (Japan Hail Steamship Line) which
is clearly a Mitsabishi company, 4/ and in Oji Seiahi KK (Oji Paper
Co.) which is a Mitsui firm. 5 No such commmnity of financial in-
terest with the ghin seibateu (new big business trusts) represented
by the Nissan-Hitachi-Manchuria Heavy Industry Corp. combine and
formerly headed by Yoshisuke AIkAwA is evident.
4. Econosio influence of the Imperial Household through cgr-
porate investments. For the most part Imperial Household stock-hold-
ings are scattered through many large enterprises and are acquirad as
investments rather than for the purpose of enterprise management. In
22 out of the 30 corporations or banks in which the crowm holds stook,
the mmber of shares held are loss than 5 per cent of the total shares
outstaniing and in most cases amount to 1 per cent or less. In 4 of
the remaiming companies the crown owms from 5 to 10 per cent of the
shares outstanding and may, therefore, be able to influence company
of the total mmber of shares, or 2,125,000, the Imperial Household
in Augast 1940 beld 16!,100; Mitsubishi Goshi Kaisha (Mitsubishi
Joint Stock Co.) held 131,375; and Mitsubishi Zosen KK (Mitsubishi
Shipbuilding Co.) held 34,874.
5
of the total mumber of shares, or 5,999,750, the Imperial House-
hold in August 1940 held 62,068, Mitsui Gome1 Kaisha (Mitsui
Joint Stock) held 169,840, and Oji Shoken KK (Oji Securities Co.)
another Mitaui company, held 320,572.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P19 00

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 11a -
policy in partioular instances. These companies are: Hippon Yusen
KK (Japan Mail Steamship Line), 8 per cent; Yubari Tetsudo KK (Tubari
Railroad Co.), 8 per cent; Hokkaido Tanko Kisen KK (Hokmido Colliery
and Steamship Co.), 6 per cent; and Bank of Formosa, 5 per cent. of
the four enterprises in which the Imperial Household holds more than
15 per cent of the outstanding shares, two are insignificant in the
national economy and bring little in the way of economic power, name-
ly Oikawa Tetsudo KK (Oikawa Railway Co.), 20 per cent; and the Im-
perial Hotel, 18 per cent. The Imperial Household participation in
the other two, the Bank of Japan and the Yokohama Specie Bank, requires
more detailed consideration.
a. Bank of Japan. The Imperial Household through the
Haizo-to (Chief of the Imperial Treasury Bureau) 6 held 140,852
shares, or about 47 per cent of the 300,000 shares muthorised in 1940.
The nert highest stockholder owned only 6,345 sbares in Angust 1940.
In 1942, the authorised capitalisation was raised to 100,000,000 yen
and the old stock exchanged for "investment certificates."
The Bank of Japan is the most powerful financial institution,
outside of the goverrment departments, in Japan. In addition to its
general central banking functions such as note issue, discount of
short-term paper, and purchase and sale of govermment bonds, by means
of which it regulates the circulation of currency and the money markst,
since 1942 it may undertake directly the financing of industry and the
purchase and sale of corporate debentures: 7/ By means of its note
issuance power and its fixing of the discount rate, in particular, it
can go far towards determining the success or failure of an inflationary
or anti-inflationary policy.
Were the Bank of Japan a private institution, the heavy con-
centration of stock in the Imperial Household would vest in the latter
immense economic power. Compared to ordinary corporations, howover,
the powers of the stockholders in the Bank of Japan are severely lim-
ited by law; the Governor, Vice-Governor and Managing Direotors are
not elected by the stockholders but chosen by the govermment and are
not responsible to them but to the government. Under the present rules
as revised in 1942 even the General Meeting of the Stockholders has been
discontimued. Since the new investment certificates carry no voting
power, and very limited if any power to sue the officers for grave mis-
management of the Bank, the property rights of the Imperial Household
imply no economic powers.
6
The abbroviation for which was mistaken to represent a nominee named
"Kura" in the Civil Affairs Handbook, -Japan. -Section 3: Money add
Banking pp. 33, 44, 47.
7
Reference is made to Civil Affaira Handbook. Japan. Section 5: Money
and Banking and the Civil Affairs Guide, Control and Use of the Bank
of Japan during the Peried of Military Goverpment for a detailed dis-
cussion of the Bank of Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 ?20 bu

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-12-
b. Yokohama Specie Bank. The crown beld, in August 1940,
224,912 or 22 per cent of the 1,000,000 reg1stered shares of the
Yokohame Specie Bank. This was by far the largest holding, the next
highest amounting to only 22,000 shares. In general, 1t may be said
that the Imparial Household, by virtue of its property rights, can
successfully control the General Meeting of the Shareholders of the
Yokohama Specie Bank.
The Yokohamm Specie Bank is not as powerful an institution
as the Ban: of Japan, but on the other hand it is not as rigidly con-
trolled by the government. As the official foreign exchange institu-
tion, it has been specifically empowered to discount, buy and sell,
deal in, and collect payments on foreign and domestic bills of ex-
change, drafts, promissory notes and other negotiable instruments,
and therefore has considerable potential power over the direction
and volume of foreign trade in general and specific export and import
companies in particular. 8 Unlike the Bank of Japan, the General
Meeting of Shareholders elects the board of directors, which in turn
elects the officers of the bank, but the Minister of Finance has to
approve the election of the directors. Where the government lays
down Bank of Japan policy subject to veto by the shareholders the
shareholders, (although indirectly) lay dowm Yokohama Specie Bank
policy subject to veto by the government. It is apparent, then,
that by virtue of its property rights if wielded skillfully, the
crown has great indirect power over the foreign trade of Japan.
E. Imperial Estates and other real property.
Land other than forests and farm land owmed by the Imperial
Household totalled 5,263 cho (12,894 acres) at the end of 1938 and
was broken down as follows:
Hereditary Property Criinary Property Total
Palaces and shrines
478 cho
236 cho
714 cho
Building land
37 cho
189 cho
226 cho
Miscellaneous land
(including game preserves)
64cho
4.259 cho
4323 cho
579 cho
4,684 cho
5,263 cho
These estates include 18 Hereditary palaces and estates centered
in Tokyo, Kyoto and Nara cities and in suburban and rural area in
pp. 47-52 for further detail.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P21 bu

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-13-
Kanagawa, Shisuoka, Nagano, Giru and Aichi prefectures, as well as
ten Ordinary palaces and villas in Tokyo, Kobe, and Numasu (Shisuoka
prefecture) cities and in rural sections of Kanagama, Tochigi and
Gumme prefectures. In addition, the Imperial Housahold owmed two
fishing and two hunting preserves. 9/
It is almost impossible to evaluate these estates because of
their nature. They yield no income and much of their value is in-
tangible, based as it is on sentimental or traditional conciderations.
Furthermore, there is no way of telling what these estates would
bring on the market. In 1935, all crown real estate was valued at
650,000,000 yen, of which it is estimated 160,000,000 yen represented
farm land and 180,000,000 yen represented forest land at prevailing
price per unit area in that year. Remaining real estate, including
house furnishings, national treasres and art work, therefore, was
valued at 310,000,000 yen. Assuming a minimal 30 per cent rise in
value because of a general rise in the price level between 1935 and
1940, the value of crown real estate other than forests or farms may
be caloulated at 400,000,000 yen. It must be emphasised, however,
that this is a wholly hypothetical figure, and the above property
would have no such value except to Japanese under political and in-
stitutional conditions similar to those which prevail at present.
F. Bullion, specie, currency, and movable property.
The extent, value and iocation of bullion, spocie and our-
rency is unavailable, and is too fluctuating to be estimated. Since
the Bank of Japan is the deposit bank for the Imperial Household
Department (Imperial Household Department Proclamation, 31 Ootober
1929) it is believed likely that a part of these properties are kept
in the vaults of the Bank of Japan. Determination will awmit detail-
ed inventory and appraisal of the property of the Imperial Household
on the spot.
Movable property is similarly unknowm but falls into the fol-
lowing categoriess
1. Furnishings of the Imperial palaces, estates and the peers'
schools. (See Section E above).
2. Contents of the Imperial museuas at Tokyo and Nara (See
Section E above).
3. Livestock on the Imperial farms and forests (See Section
B above).
9 See Appendix E for a detailed listing.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P23 Dw

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-14-
4. Cars, trucks, motorcycles and other vehicles either
under the jurisdiction of the Imperial Mews Bureau (Shuma-ryo) or
the Imperial Household Forests and Estates Bureau (Koshitsu Rinya-
kyoku).
5. Rolling stock of the logging railways in the Imperial
forests in Hokkaido and in the Kiso valley. (See Section B above).
G. Income and expenditurea.
It has been estimated that the current expenditures of the
Imperial Household Department amount to about 20,000,000 yen anmually.
Since 1910, the Imperial Household has been allotted 4,500,000
yen anmually from the national treasury for the civil list. The
latest available information, for the 1944-45 budget, indicates that
this sum is being contimued. 10/ However, it is clear that this sum
(amounting to less than one hundredth of one per cent of the total
national budget) falls far short of the amounts required for the opera-
tion of the imperial menage, and in fact is just about equal to the
combined salaries of the regular employees of the Imperial Household
Department, which totalled to 4,512,276 yen in 1939-40.
The bulk of Imperial Household income is derived from its
property holdings. Any attempt to estimate such income involves
much guesswork, but the more reliable items for 1939 are as follows:
Forestry
10,000,000 - 15,000,000 yen
Agrioultural land
6,667,000 - 15,000,000 yen
Commercial stooks
6,740,000 yen
Civil list
4.500.000 yen
Total
27,907,000 - 41,240,000 yen
In addition to this are the returns from bond holdings, commercial,
municipal, prefectural, and national, which the Imperial Household
owns. However large this item may be, and it may be in the neighbor-
hood of 10,000,000 yen, it is clear that the Imperial Household is
completely independent of the financial support of the Japanese
treasury.
H. Property of the Imperial Princes.
The property holdings of the fourteen Imperial Princes are
quite insignificant compared to the vast wealth of the Imperial House-
hold. The only items of interest, aside from their estates and personal
10/ See Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan, Soction 4: Government Finance
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P23 u

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-15-
possessions, are their stook-holdings. Together, the Imperial Prinoes
owned a total of 89,545 shares in 38 corporations and banks with a
market value in Angust 1940 of from 5,000,000 to 7,000,000 yen. (See
Table VI for detailed tabulation). The only Large investment, however,
was in the South Manchurian Railway, and considering the sise of that
company the holdings of the Imperial Princes were quite mall. In
general, it may be said that the Princes appeared more willing to in-
vest in industrial corporations, particularly in the newer and more
speculative enterprises. In some of the new army-sponsored exploitive
companies, such as the North China and Central China Developmant Com-
panies, token shares have apparently been bought by the Daperial
Princes for propaganda purposes.
I. Effect of the War on Imperial Household Property.
Since 7 December 194l, prices of all commodities have been
steadily rising in Japan so that all Imperial Household properties
other than bullion, specie, currency and bonds have been increasing
in monetary value. Production in forests, particularly, has been
accelerated to meet demands of war industries, and profits of indus-
trial companies have risen sharply. The heavy crowm stookholdings
in banks and commercial companies have probably reflected this in
the form of higher dividends and market prices. National, municipal,
prefectural andcorporate bonds, on the bther hand, since they have a
fixed nominal value and interest rate, have actually declined in real
value.
The destruction caused by the war and military occupation,
the disappearance of wartime markets after hostilities, the enforced
closing of certain industries, and the removal of Manchuria, Karea,
Formosa and the Mandated Islands from the Japanese Empire, are all
expected to counteract the temporary wartime increase in the value
of crown properties. Except in the event of a strong inflationary
movement, it is possibie that the value of the property of the Im-
perial Household will be less than it was in 1940.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P24 bu

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-16-
III. ADMINISTRATION OF DMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD PROPERTY
A. General
Over-all administrative direction of the crown properties is
exeroised by the Empercr, with the advice of the Privy Counoil, through
the Imperial Household Department (Kunai-sho) headed by the Imparial
Household Minister (Kunai Daijin). Within the Department and under
the supervision of the Minister, responsibility for the management of
the crown properties is divided according to the class of property,
as follows: for specie, bullion, currency, negotiable instruments,
government bonds and other intangibles - the Imperial Treasury Burean,
(Naiso-ryo); for farms, forests and associated properties - the Im-
perial Forests and Estates Bureau (Koshitsu Rinya-kyoku); for motor
vehicles and livestock - the Imperial Mews Bureau (Shuma-ryo); for
other miscellaneous orown property - each bureau for property relat-
ing to its special functions; and for the property of the lmperial
Prinoes - each of the fourteen prinoely houses (miya). Orer sll of
these managerial funotions, the Board of Imperial Auditors (Koshitau
Kaiksi Gisa-kyoku) has general auditing responsibilities. Two "inter-
burean" committees. within the Imperial Household Department, the
Daperial Househols Economic Committee and the Budget Committee, tender
advice to the Emperor and the Minister with regard to property manage-
ment. General accounting functions are carried on by the Imperial
Treasury Bureau, exoept for the special accounts in which case the
Imperial Treasury Bureau merely inspects the balance sheets and bud-
gots.
B. The Emperor and hie advieere
The Emperor, as the head of the Imperial Family, controls the
property of the Imperial Household. In theory he has almost absolute
control, being limited only by the Imperial House Law (Koshitsu Tempan)
and the other laws relating to crown property, all of which he can
change if necessary. In practice, be leys down general polioy with
regard to crown property and directly appoints the higher officials
who administer it, but bothers little with the actual administrative
details exmept to (a) designate Imperial Hereditary Property; (b) ap-
prove the anmal budget and the audit of Imperial Household accounts;
(c) approve the establishment of and expansion of Prinoely estates;
(d) appoint special judicial funotionaries to settle litigation between
members of the Imperial Family, and (e) pronounce legal incapacity of
members of the Imperial Family and appoint guardians for them.
In questions of general policy, the Emperor may call on the
Privy Coumoil for advice. 1/ The Daperial House Law specifically
See Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan Section 2A. National Government
for oomposition and duties of the Privy Counoil.
CONFIDENTIAL
104008 Ps5 bu

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
COMFIDENTIAL
- 17 -
charges the Privy Counoil with the responsibility for advising the
Emperor with respect to the designation of Imperial Hareditary Prop-
erty (Artiele 46) but consideration and advice conoerning other as-
peots of crown property are forthooming only at the Emperor's request.
The Emperor, in like manmer, may call on the Lerd Privy Seal for ad-
viee on drown property although no law makes specifie provision to
that effeot. The Imperial Household Minister, whose powers and funo-
tions are disoussed below, however, is likely to be the Eaperer's
olosest advisor on matters of Dmperial Household property. It is
significant that tihe Eaperor's prinoipal property advisers and ef-
ficials are generally chosen for their knowledge of and ability in
national and international affairs, and that property problems con-
stitute only a small part of their field of action.
C. The Daperial Honsehald Department (Kunai-sho)
The Imperial Househald Department, an prganisation originally
establisbed for the carrying out of court fumotions and ritumls, has,
with the enormows sgrowth of the crown properties, beoome im large
part a business organisation for the management of extensive fiman-
oial, cctmeroial and real interests. As the personal secreteriat
of the Eaperor, it is not a regular cabinet department and does mot
fall under the supervision of the Premier or amy parliamentary organ
nor does the Minister's temre correspond to the life of the cakdmet
in power. It is staffed by regular civil servi∞ employees. Since
its property administration is an outgrowth of its ceremenial fumo-
tions, supervision of crown properties is soattered throughout its
various seotions in the manner indicated below. (See Figures II and
III)
1. The Miniater of the Dmmarial Housshald (Eumai Daijin) is
appointed direotly by the Eaperor and is charged with the responsi-
bility of assisting in all affairs of the Imperial Housebald. The
selection of the minister is usumlly determined by palitical con-
siderations and his ability to advise the Emperer in politieal mat-
ters rather than on the basis of his ability to tamage the Imperial
Heusehold. Nevertheless, in practice, almost all of the Bapevor's
authority conoerming property matters is deputised to the minister.
In both arganisation and personnel be has broed general powers; he
lays down procedural regalations with regard to preperty and appoints
in the mame of the Emperor most of the middle and higher afrioials
in the Department. He also has a mumber of speeiried duties:
a.) All Dmperial announcements, in lieu of registration,
soncerning deaignation of Hereditary Property and the sreation of
rights in rem with respeot to Hareditary Property are mede by him.
b.) The Minister or his deputies represent the Dmperial
Househald in legal astions.
o.) The Minister desigmates expenditare items is the re
serve funds, appoints the Budget Oommittee, and approves the anual
budget of the Department.
COUUIRRTIAL

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
FIGURE
ORGANIZATION OF THE IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD. JULY 1943
EMPEROR
(Tenno)
TMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD
LORD PRIVY SEAL
PRIVY COUNCIL
ECONOMIC COMMITTEE
(Na1 Da1j1n)
(Sumitsu-1n)
(Koshitsu Keizai Kaigi)
IMPFRIAL. HOUSEHOLD WINISTER
(Kuna1 Da1jin)
BU'DGET COWMITTER
SECRETARIAT
VICE-MINISTER
(Yosan Iin-kal)
(Daijin Kambo)
(J1kan)
REGULAR BUREAUX
SPECIAL BURFAUX AND INSTITUTIONS
IMPERIAL TREASURY BUREAU
IMPERIAL MEWS HUREAU
IMPERIAL FORESTS AND
BOARD OF IMPERIAL
(Naizo-ryo)
(Shuma-ryo)
ESTATES BUREAU
AUDITORS
HEADED BY CHIEF
HEADED BY CHIRF
(Koshitsu Rinya-kyoku)
HEADED BY CHIEF
(Koshitsu Kaikei
(Naizo-to)
(Shuma-to)
(Koshitsu Rinya Chokan)
Gisa-kyoku)
BOARD OF CEREMONIES
OFFICE OF EMPRESS
PEERS AND PERRESSKS
GENERAL AFFAIRS BUREAU
(Shikibu-shoku)
HOUSEHOLD
SCHOOLS (Gakushu-in,
(Somu-kyoku)
HEADED BY GRAND MASTER OF
(Kogo Kunhoku)
Onago Gekushu-in)
CEREWONIES (Shikibu Chokan)
BOARD OF CHAMBERLAINS
OFFICE OF EMPRESS
PRINCKLY HOUSRHOLDS
(J1ju-shoku)
IMPERIAL MAUSOLEA BURKAU
DOWAGER'S HOUSEHOLD
(M1ya)
HEADED BY GRAND
(Shoryo-ryo)
(Kotaigo aunhoku)
14 in number
CHAMBERLAIN (J1JU-cho)
BOARD OF PRERAGE AND
RERALDRY
IMPERIAL ARCHIVES BUREAU
IMPERIAL POETRY BUREAU
IMPERIAL GUARDB BURBAU
(Sochitsu-ryo)
(Tosho-ryo)
(Shoten-bu)
(Keie1-kyoku)
OTHER TEMPORARY AND
IMPERIAL CULINARY BUREAU
COURT PHYSICIANS'
BUREAU
IMPERIAL MUSEUMS
SPECIAL BOARDS, OFFICES
(Daizen-syo)
(J11-ryo)
(Teishitsu Hakubutsukan)
AND COMMITTERS
MAINTENANCE AND WORKS
BURBAU
(Naisho-ryo)
ADVISORS TO EMPEROR
.  . . F . 

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-13-
d.) He determines the sales price of land, buildings
and other Imperial real property, and designates cases of sales of
timber, agricultural produce and other products of Imperial House-
hold property in which private contracts may replace public bidding.
e.) He designates banks of deposit and other outside
financial institutions through whom the Imperial Household deals.
f.) He appoints examiners to inspect the books of the
Officials in charge of Receipt and Disbursement of Funds (Suito
Kamri), and determines whether they should be held personally re-
sponsible for any losses which occur.
g.) He acts as a general supervisor and executàr of
princely estates (miya). For example, he establishes or alters the
estates of the princely houses and sets forth the accounting regula-
tions thereof, announces the declaration or termination of legal in-
competenoy or quasi-inoompetency of members of the Imperial Family,
manages princely estates until succession is acknowledged, liquidates
princely estates with no successors, and with Imperial Sanction de-
cides the division of princely estates when disagreement as to in-
heritance arises.
h.) He sits on the Imperial Household Economic Committee.
2. The Imperial Treagury Bureau (Naizo-ryo) is entrusted with
supervision of liquid assets and investments, with general accounting
and drawing up the annual budget for the Department, and with the pur-
chase of supplies. It is headed by a Chief (Naizo-to) in whose name
all registered bonds and negotiable instruments are held. The Bureau
Chief sits in an advisory capacity on the Imperial Household Economic
Council and is usually a member of the Imperial Household Administra-
tive Review Committee (Kunai-kan Kosa Lin-ka). The Imperial Treasury
Bureau consists of three sections with jurisdictional responsibilities
as follows:
a.) Finance Section (Zaimu-ka) - Accounting and custody
of the Imperial Capital Accounts (Gyoshi Kaikei); receipt, expenditure
and custody of bullion, specie, currency and specially guarded moneys;
matters relating to the Imperial Household Economic Council; bonds and
other seourities; accounting journal; revenues and disbursements other
than those provided in the budget; and guarding of "chops" or seals.
b.) Accounts Section (Shukei-ka) - Records of budget
estimates and closing entries; ledgers; expenditure or transfer of
veserve funds; carrying farward fixed amounts; charge of the Ordinary
Accounts (Tsujo Kaikei) and their analysis; and inspoction of balance
sheets of special accounts.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-000 P7 mebu

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
FIGURE
ORGANIZATION OF BUREAUS WITH SPECIAL PROPERTY FUNCTIONS
IN THE IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT. JULY IONS
IMPERIAL
TREASURY
BUREAU
(Naizo-ryo
CHIEF
(Naizo-to)
FINANCIALAFFAIRS
SECTION
ACCOUNTS SECTION
SUPPLIES SECTION
(Za1mu-ka)
(Shuke1-ka)
(Yodo-ka)
IMPERIAL MEWS
BUREAU
(Shuma-ryo)
CHIEF
(Shuma-to)
GENERAL AFFAIRS
STABLES
AUTONOBILE
SHIMOSA STOCK
NIIKAPPU STOCK
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
FARM
FARM
(Shomu-ka)
(Kyumu-ka)
(Jidosha-ka)
(in Chiba-ken)
(in Bokkaido)
IMPERIAL FORESTRY&
ESTATES
BUREAU
(Koshitsu Rinya-kyoku)
CHIEF
(Chokan)
BRANCHES (Shikyoku)
SUPERINTENDENCE
BUSINESS
DIVISION
DIVISION
SAPPORO
(Kanr1-bu)
(Gyomu-bu)
ASAHIGANA
GENERAL
PLANNING
AFFAIRS
SECTION
SECTION
(Shomu-ka)
(Keikaku-kn)
TOKYO
LANDS
AFFORFSTATION
SECTION
SECTION
(Tochi-ka)
(Zorin-ka)
K1SO
ACCOUNTS
UTILIZATION
SECTION
SFCTION
(Kaike1-ka)
(R1yo-ka)
NAGOYA
ENGINEERING
TOKYO FORESTRY
SECTION
EXPERIMENT
(Kosaku-ka)
STATION
HOKKAIDO
FORESTRY EXPER-
INENT STATION
M. & . DIV. FEA MO. 2282

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-19-
c.) Supplies Section (Yodo-ka) - Purohase, custody and
expenditure of supplies; hiring, management and supervision of serv-
ants; telephone sxohange; cleaning end anagement of buildings; and
disposition of used goods.
3. Imperial Forestry and Estates Burean (Koshitsu Rinya-
kyoku) has general jurisdiction of forests, farms and other Imperial
estates. It is set up independently of the regular bureaus of the
Imperial Household Minister but is under his control. In accounting
and administration it is almost entirely independent of the remainder
of the Department. Because of the extent and location of the crown
forests, this bureau has five branohes, sixty-three stations and an
experiment station in addition to its Tokyo headquarters, and in 1939
employed a total of about 900 regular employees about one-third of
the entire staff of the Imperial Household Department. The headquarters
of the bureau is headed by a bureau chief (kyoku chokan) and consists
of two divisions and seven sections with responsibilities as follows:
a.) Superintendance Division (Kanri-bu)
i. General Affairs Section (chomu-ka) - Doouments;
seals; correspondence; compilation and sustody of documents and maps;
statistios; establishment, abolition and changes in branches, stations
and experiment stations; police affairs; lawsuits and money grants.
ii. Land Section (Tochi-ka) - Purchase, sale, ex-
change or transfer of land; establiahment, alteration or extinotion
of real rights; renting and use of land; extraction of earth, olay,
stone, or mineral ores; and registration and custody of land titles,
maps and records.
i1i. Accounts Section (Kaikei-ka) - Special forest-
ry accounts; bureau budgets; income and expenditures; contracts and
purchases; disposal of umused goods; hiring and management of forest
workers; construotion, and repairs; management, acquisition and dis-
posal of buildings; registration and custody of building titles, maps
and records.
b.) Business Division (Gyomu-bu)
i. Planning Section (Keikaku-ka) - Examination, re-
vision, compilation and custody of administrative bills and proposals;
establishment of reserved forests and separated forests; water uti-
lisation; boundaries and surveying; custody of boundary charts and
surveying records.
i1. Afforestation Section (Zorin-ka) - Tree plant-
ing, protection, mrseries and restoration of damage to forests.
ii1. Utilization Section (Riyo-ka) - Disposition
of forest produots and stored timber; cultivation of agricultural
land; stockherding; and aquatic enterpriees.
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P20 u

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 20-
iv. Engineering Section (Kosaku-ka) - Construotion
and management of special forestry railroads; construotion and repair
of forest roads and paths; irrigation and dikes; oustody of reccrds
and plans of special forest railroads, tramways, rolling stook, roads
and paths.
In each of the five Branch Bureaux (shikyoku) a similar but
simpler administrative organization has been set up consisting of a
Superintendence Section (Kanri-ka) and a Business Section (Gyomu-ka)
with functions comparable to the headquarters organisation. (See
Appendix A for list of Imperial Forest Branches and Stations)
4. Imperial Mewa (Shuma-ryo) is a third burean within the
Imperial Household Department whioh hus jurisdiotion over a special
category of Imperial Household property. It is responsible for all
vehicles and livestock, except stock farms under the Imperial For-
estry and Estates Bureau. It is headed by the Chief of the Imperial
Mews (Shuma-to) and has three seotions and two stock-farms as follows:
a. General Affairs Section (Shomu-ka)
b. Stables Soction (Kymu-ka)
c. Automobile Section (Jidosha-ka)
d. Shimosa Stock Farm (in Chiba-ken)
e. Niikappu Stook Farm (in Hokkaido)
In 1939 the Imperial Mews had 125 regular employess.
5. Other Regular Bureaux have special limited administration
of crown property in connection with their special functions, e.g.,
the Imperial Culinary Bureau (Daisen-ryo) is in charge of the oourt
kitchens. Only a few cases are specially worthy of note.
a.) Bureau of Libraries (Toaho-ryo) keeps the register
of Imperial Hereditary Property.
b.) The Nara and Tokyo Imperial Exhibition Halls have
custody of the Imperial Art Treasures.
c.) The Peers and Peeresses sohools with their build-
ings and grounds are separately administered.
6. The Imperial Princes (Miya) have administrative super-
vision over the property of their houses. Their accounts must be
kept in accordance with the regulations set dowm by the Imperial
Household Minister and are believed to be subjoct to inspection by
the Board of Imperial Auditors. In 1943 the princely houses were
as followss
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P30 Du

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
COMFIDENTIAL
-21-
1. Chichibu
8. Kaya
2. Takamatsu
9. Kuni
3. Mikasa
10. Nashimoto
4. Kanin
11. Asaica
5. Higaahi
12.
Higashi Kuni
6. Fushimi
13. Kita Shirakawa
7. Yamashina
14. Takeda
7. Board of Imperial Auditore (Koshitsu Kaikei Gisa-kyoku)
consists of a Chief (Chokan), a Chief Secretary (Jimukan) who is also
an auditor, three other auditors (gisa-kan)z/ and two assistant au-
ditors (gisa-kampo). They are under the direct supervision of the
Imperial Household Minister and their function is to audit the ac-
counts of all bureaux and other institutions in the Imperial House-
hold Department. Each year, by August 31, the Board receives the
anmual budget for audit. The Board also makes a special inspection
of the books of the Officials in charge of Receipt and Disbursement
of Funds (Suito Kanri) and determines strict accountability, i.e.,
personal responsibility, for any lost sum. The Chief of the Imperial
Auditors Board sits in an advisory capacity on the Imperial Household
Economic Council.
8. Special Committeeg. There are two significant special
committees with considerably different functions:
a.) The Imperial Household Economic Council (Koshitsu
Keizai Kaigi) was set up by the Imperial Household Property Law
(Articles 80-85) and consists of the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal,
the Imperial Household Minister, and not more than seven Advisors.
The Vice-Minister of the Imperial Household (Kunai Jikan), Chief of
the Imperial Treasury Bureau, Chief of the Imperial Forestry and
Estates Bureau, and the Chief of the Board of Imperial Auditors sit
in a consultative capacity.
This Council,.with Imperiel Sanction, sets general pol-
icy for ne Department on the budget, on reserve disbursements and
extra-budgetary disbursements, on designation of Hereditary Property
and creation of rights in rem with respect to such property, and on
profit and loss of investment and properties.
b.) The Budget Committee (Yosan Iin-kai) was establiahed
by the Imperial Household Accounting Law (Articles 38, 39) and con-
sists of a Chief and six members chosen anmually with Imperial Sanction
by the Imperial Household Ministers from among the higher civil of-
ficials of the Department. It has the technical task of reviewing
2
The Imperial Family Ordinance No. 10 of Oct. 192l, which established
this Board called for five auditors, but in July 1943 only four au-
ditors were listed in the Government Register (Shokuin-roku).
CONFIDENTIAL
18-008 Ps1 bu

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-22-
the budgets presented by the various bureaus and the Imperial Treas-
ury Bureau and submitting them to the Imperial Household Minister
and the Emperor.
9. Personnel. The entire personnel of the Imperial House-
hold Department in 1939 consisted of about 2,800 officials and re-
gular employees. It is impossible to tell how many of them were
engaged in property adninistration or management but about 900 were
in the Imperial Household and Estates Bureau. A amall mmber, only
27, were listed in the Imperial Treasury Bureau, and the Imperial
Mews had 112.
A survey of the higher officials of the Imperial Household
Department indicates that most of them have had straight civil service
backgrounds with no direct outside connections. The present (June
1945) Imperial Household Minister, Sotaro ISHIWATA, is typical of this
element having held such posts as Chief of Regional and national tax
and revemue bureaus, Vice-Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance,
and Councillor to the Finance Minister. A mumber of the higher officials,
however,have been abroad, either as students or diplomats, with pre-
war connections to Axls or Allied countries equally mmerous. The
Imperial Household Minister from March 1936 until Jume 1945, Tsuneo
MATSUDAIRA, was Ambassador to the United States from 1925 to 1928
and Ambassador to Great Britain from 1929 to 1936, and is generally
considered to lean towards the peaceful imperialist policy of the
moderate business elements. On the other hand, Viscount Kimitomo
MUSHAKOJI, the Director of the Bureau of Peerage and Hereditary
(Sochitsu-ryo) was Ambassador to Germany and concluded the German-
Japanese Anti-Comintern Pact in November 1936. A small mumber
have held high positions in the military forces. Admiral Himmnori
FUJITA, who is now Grand Chamberlain (Jiju-cho), was formerly Vice-
Minister of the Navy, Commandant of the Kure and Yokosuka Naval
Bases and war councilor. Takeo YAMAGATA, the Deputy Grand Master
of Ceremonies (Shikibu Jikan) was the secretary to the Navy Minister
and naval attache to the Embassy in Italy.
In general it may be said that the Emperor chooses his higher
officials for their political abilities and devotion to the throne
rather than for technical administrative capacities. Except in the
middle and lower ranks, the officials with authority over the crowm
properties administer their official duties as an honor and as a
minor part of their job. Their principal function is to act as
political advisers to the Emperor.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P3z bo

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 23 -
IV. ACCOUNTING AND RECORDS
A. General
In the management of property so valuable and diverse as that
of the Imperial Household, accurate accounts and records are essential.
Fortunately, all accounting has been centralized and made uniform by
the Imperial Household Accounting Ordinance (Koshitsu Kaikei-rei) and
the Rules for the Application of the Imperial Household Accounting Or-
dinance (Koshitsu-Kaikei-rei Shiko Kisoku). Other property records,
however, still reflect the situation when crown properties were con-
sidered primarily an adjunct of court functions and supervision was
apportioned among the various officials entrusted with those functions.
In determining pronerty holdings, the accounts will be most useful to
Militsry Government unless they have been removed or destroyed, in
which case other types of records will have to be used by MG officers.
B. Accounts
1. Responsible officials. The Chief of the Imperial Treasury
Bureau (Naizo-to) has general supervision of all accounts. He holds
the position of Managing Director (Shukan Bukyoku Chokan) of the Im-
perial Capital and Ordinary Accounts, while each of the Special Accounts
has as its Managing Directer the Division (bu) or Bureau (kyoku or ryo)
Chief concerned. The Managing Director appoints the subsidiary officials
attached to his Account or Accounts as follows:
a.) Officials in Charge of Receipt and Disbursement of
Fundg (Suito Kanri) have direct custody of specie, currency and nego-
tiable instruments for purposes of receipt or disbursement. These of-
ficials are chosen with care, their books are inspected from time to
time by the Board of Imperial Auditors, and they are personally respon-
sible for any losses incurred in their handling of funds.
b.) Assigned Accounts Officials (Bunninkan) are account-
ants who are in charge of any segment of the work which the Managing
Director may assign to them. They assist in drawing up contracts and
budgets, as well as keeping the accounts.
c.) Deputy Assigned Accounts Officials (Bunninkan-no dairi)
assist the Assigned Accounts Officials and are appointed by them.
In addition to these officials the Budget Committee and the
Board of Imperial Auditors have special responsibilities with regard
to accounts which are described in Chapter III.
2. Form of Accounts. In accordance with the Imperial House-
hold Accounting Law, all Imperial Household accounts are divided into
three categories: Ordinary Accounts, Imperial Capital Accounts, and
Special Accounts.
CONFIDENTIAL
1a-008 P33 bu

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 24 -
a.) Qrdinary Accounts (Tsujo Kaikei) are substantially
ourrent accounts and relate to the day-to-day functioning of the court.
They contain entries for income from the Civil List, the sale of land,
miscellaneous income and surplus funds transferred from Special Accounts.
Expenditures listed are those for purohase of food or other goods, con-
struction work, wages and salaries, and, in fact, all expenses not
belonging to other accounts. Surpluses are transferred to and deficits
are made up from the Imperial Accounts.
b.) Imperial Canital Accounts (Gyoshi Kaikei) relate to
the great bulk of the wealth, other than forests and estates, owned by
the Imperial Household. They are divided into two sections plus a
fund as follows:
i. The Main und Section includes the bullion, re-
gistered bonds, negotiable instruments, and the greater part of the
specie and currency owned by the Imperial Household. Capital funds
from Special Accounts are kept in the Main Funds Section. At the end
of the fiscal year, any deficits in the Receipts and Disbursements
Section are made up out of the Main Fund Section and, contrariwise,
any surpluscs are transferred to the Lain Fund Section.
ii. The Receipts and Disbursement Section includes,
among its receipts, income from investments (listed in the Main Fund),
surplus funds transferred from the Fund for Reserve Supplies and from
the Ordinary Accounts, funds transferred from the Main Fund Section
to make up deficits and miscellaneous income. Expenditures listed in-
clude expenses connected with the Main Fund Section, and funds trans-
ferred to the Ordinary Accounts and to the Fund for Reserve Supplies.
iii. The Fund for Reserve Supplies is set up to pro-
vide for the purchase of supplies not to be used currently and there-
fore not posted in the Ordinary Accounts. In oneral, only two types
of supplies are included in this fund, i.e., construction and repair
materials, and special foods and articles needed for Imperial banquets
and gifts. Surplus supplies may be sold and inccme therefrom is in-
dicated in the Receipts and Disbursement Section.
c.) Special Accounts relate to enterprises not directly
involved in the functioning of the court, such as the Peers' and
Peeresses' Schools, the Empress Dowager's Household and so forth.
Capital funds of the Special Accounts are usually kept in the Main
Fund Section of the Imperial Capital Accounts. By far the most im-
portant enterprise among the Special Accounts is the Imperial Forest-
ry and Estates Bureau, whose accounts are kept by a separate Accounts
Section (Kaikei-Ka) within the Bureau. All business receipts and
expenditures are shown in this Account. Annual surpluses in Special
Accounts are transferred to and funds to meet deficits transferred
from the Ordinary Accounts.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P34 nu

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 25 -
3. Aocgunting Procedures. In general, the Imperial Housebold
is believed to use the double-entry bookkeeping system used in the
United States, with the usual Japanese modifications. Transfers from
one fund to another, or from one category of accounts to another is
usually aoccmplished by check.
The calendar year is taken as the fiscal year, and the
books mmst be olosed and balanced by Maroh 31 of the following year.
The year in which reveme falls is determined by the date of the re-
ceipt, the date of notice of payment due, or date of collection, in
that crder of preference, exoept that the allotment for the Civil
List is allocated nine-twelfths to the ourrent government fisoal year
and three-twelfths to the preceding government fiscal year. The year
into whieh expenditure falls is determined by the date of payment,
the date of fulfillment of a contract (where disbursements are based
on contracts), or the yeer scheduled for payment (in the case of fixed
paymants suoh as pensions, grants, allowanoes, eto.).
4. Budget.
a.) Compilatien and approval. Receipts and expenditures
of the Dmperial Household are planned in advance by an annual budget
system. Each year budgetary estimates for the succeeding year are
made by the Assigned Accounts Offioials and the Bureau or Division
Chiefs in Charge of Special Accounts. Upon the basis of these esti-
mates, the Chief of the Imperial Treasury Bureau (Haiso-to) draws up
the main budget for all accounts except the Main Fund Section and the
Fund for Reserve Supplies of the Imperial Capital Aocounts. This
budget is submitted before October 31 to the Minister of the Imperial
Housebold, who sends it immediately to the Budget Committee which in
turn is roquired to approve or disapprove the items listed within 15
days. The budget is then submitted to the Faperor by Deoember 31,
and, after the daliberation of the Imperial Household Economy Council
receives Imperial sanotion. Supplementary budgets are drawm up and
approved in much the same manner as the necessity for them arises.
b.) Balancing the booke and auditing. At the and of the
fiseal year, the Chief of the Imperial Treasury Bureau drafts the
settlement or balance sheet for those revemues and expenditures pro-
vided for by the budget for the year past, and also presents a balancs
shoet for the accounts not included in the budget. These drafts, ao-
sempamied by monthly and annual statements of receipts and disburse-
meats made by the Assigned Accounts Officials, the Ofricials in charge
of Reoeipt and Disbursement of Funds, and the Managing Directors in
ebarge of special accounts, are submitted with relevamd dooumants by
Angust 10 to the Emperor, at which time the Board of Imperial Auditors
is notified. The latter are charged with finding losses of specie, bul-
lien, ourrenoy or negotiable instruments and fixing responsibility on
the afficials cencerned.
o.) Fore of the budget. The budgots for the Ordinary and
Special Accounts are divided into two sections, a working budget and
COHFIDENTIAL
T-

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-26-
an emergenoy budget, and contain preambles explaining the year's ac-
counts and comparing them with the preceding year. Provision for
two reserve funds are made in each of these budgets. The First Re-
serve Fund is intended to supplement unavoidable deficiencies in items
listed in the budget while the Second Reserve Fund provides for neces-
sary expenses arising outside the budget. Items of expenditure in the
First Reserve Fund are designated by the Minister of the Imperial House-
hold at the beginning of the fiscal year. All other emergency expendi-
tures are handled by the Second Reserve Fund, or where it is insufficient,
by supplementary budgets.
5. Receipt and Disbursement of Funds. Subject to the super-
vision of the Imperial Household Minister, the custody, receipt and
disbursement of funds are managed by the Chief of the Imperial Treasury
Bureau, his appointees (particularly the Officials in charge of Receipt
and Disbursement of Funds), and banks or trustees designated by him.
Detailed forms and procedures to be used by them in transactions in-
volving the expenditure or receipt of funds are laid down by the Im-
perial Household Accounting Ordinance and the Rules for the Application
of the Imperial Household Accounting Ordinance.
a.) Receipts. Notices of payment due are sent to the payor
ten days in advance. Payments must generally be made in specie or post-
al savings transfers to the Official in charge of Receipt and Disburse-
ment of Funds or to a designated deposit bank. Receipts are issued by
such officials or by the Chief of the Imperial Treasury Bureau. (In
1928, the Bank of Japan was designated as the official deposit bank
for the Imperial Household).
b.) Disbursements. Except in special instances, disburse-
ments are made in the form of checks drawn upon a deposit bank by the
Chief of the Imperial Treasury Bureau, the Managing Director or the
Assigned Accounts Official concerned. Funds may be transferred to a
local bank on which a check may be drawn for the convanience of the
payee. In every case a receipt must be collected or a disbursement
affidavit made out by the official concerned.
c.) Advance payments. Although generally disburaements
are permitted only after goods have been delivered, contracts falfilled
or work performed, limited exceptions are made to this rule when circum-
stances warrant, e.g., expenses paid before an Imperial visit, travel
expenses, tuition and allowances for persons ordered abroad on official
missions or for study.
d.) Borrowing. Loans from outside sources may be made
with Imperial Sanction after consultation with the Imperial Household
Economic Council. Loans among the various Imperial Household accounts
require no such sanction but must be paid back within the year.
CONFIDENTIAL
16008 P30 bu

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
COMFIDENTIAL
-27-
6. Contractg. Aside from work done by regular employees, all
materials purchased and work performed for the Imperial Household Depart-
ment is arranged on a contract basis. Contracts are normally emarded
after competitive bidding, the procedure for which is outlined in great
detail in the Imperial Household Accounting Ordinance (Articles 77-81)
and the Rules for the Application of the Imperial Household Acoounting
Ordinanoe (Articles 98-li9). Private contracts may be made for pur-
chases of goods for less than 3,000 yen or buildinge and enterpriees
for less than 5,000 yen, and also in a mmber of special cases smch as
extreme urgency, purohase of goods from abroed, arrangements for trans-
portation, purchases in connection with an Imperial visit, or trans-
actions in bullion and negotiable instruments, Where the products of
Imperial Household forests and farms, or orown land and buildings are
sold by private contract, the price is determined by the Minister of
the Imperial Household. Otherwise the subsidiary official conoerned
is responsible.
C. Records
Records other than accounts relating to the property of the
Imperial Household are scattered throughout the offices of the Im-
parial Household Department which have had jurisdiction over the prop-
erty concerned. The central repository for recards is the Archives
Bureau (Tosho-ryo) located in the Imperial Palace, but many of the
relevant records are not located there. In general, the central prop-
erty records for each of the bureaux handling property are believed to
be located in the Imperial Palace in Tokyo, while records relating to
transactions of branch offices will be found at the branches. Certain
types of records are worthy of special mention:
1. Deeda, titlee, mape of agricultural and forest land are
located in the office of the Lands Section, Suparintendence Division,
Imperial Forestry and Estates Bureau at l-chome, Marunouchi, Kojimachi-
ku, Tokyo or in the Superintendence Sections of the Branches. (Ses
Appendix A for a list of branches and stations of the Imperial Forests
and Estates Bureau.)
2. Doode, titlee, plang of building, if connected with the
Imperial Forestry and Estates Bureau, are located in the offices of
its Accounts Section, Superintendance Division located as above.
Building plans of other buildings may be found in the Superintendance
Section, Maintenance and Work Bureau (Naisho-ryo) in the Imperial
Palace, Tokyo.
3. Hereditary Property Recorde are kept in the Archives Section
(Tosho-ka), Archives Bureau (Tosho-ryo), Imperial Palace, Tokyo.
4. Recorde of stocks of bullion or specie on deposit in the
Bank of Japan are probably kept in the headquarters of the Bank of
Japan in Tokyo.
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P37 b

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
-28
V.
PROBLEMS AND COURSES OF ACTION
Necessity for Military Government Control of Dmperial
Household Property.
In order to prevent activity inimical to the security of the
Military Government and the occupying forces on the part of the Im-
perial Household, its officials or employees; in order to insure
the final disposition of Imperial Household properties (in accordance
with policy to be determined later); in order to facilitate the
utilization of such properties for furthering the immediate pur
poses of the Military Government; and in order to preserve works
of art and other cultural materials, it will be necessary for the
Military Government to place Imperial Household property under its
control.
1. Preventing hostile activi:8
The vast extent and value of the crown fortune wakes it parti-
cularly susceptible of use in a manner prejudicial or hostile to the
occupying forces and the Military Government. of its estimated total
value of about a billion yen, perhaps as much as several hundred mil-
lion yen will be in the form of bullion, specie and currenoy or ne-
gotiable instruments and other liquid assets readily convertible to
cash. It is the direct concern of the Military Government to prevent
the use of such assets to finance the activities of hostile groups,
whether political or military in nature. Furthermore, the Imperial
Household, through its shareholdings in certain Japanese companies
and banks, may occasionally be in a position to use its voting pri-
vileges to obstruct special Military Government policies. This is
particularly true in the case of the Yokohama Specie Bank and the
Japan Mail Steamahip Line (Nippon Yusen Kaisha), avan where special
MG controls are set up over such companies.
2. Insuring final disposition
For the reason that the maintenauce of immense wealth in the hands
of the Imperial Household may very well hinder the democratization
of Japan and for the purpose of utilizing crown properties for mpara-
tions or restitution, the nationalization, transfer or other disposi-
tion of the Imperial Household properties may ultimately be required.
In the absence of any clear statement of policy on this subjoct and
for the period of the belligerent military occupation of Japan,
Military Government will not be expected to implement final dimposi-
tion of the property of the Imperial Household. When such policy
is stated final disposition of the Imperial Household properties
will be in order.
Until such time,the principal duty of the Military Government
will be the prevention of the alienation, secret or "above-board",
or the destruction of Imperial Household properties. This will be
particularly true with regard to liquid assets of which no public
16 008 P38 0u

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-29
record has been made and of which little is known at present. In the
very first period after occupstion, it is most likely that the Im-
perial Household, its officiais or agents, will attempt to conceal
such assets in order to avcid the possibility of eventual fines,
penalties or seisures. I's will be the responsibility of the Mili-
tary Government to keep such properties intact and available for
future disposition so far as possible.
3. Furthering the purposes of MG
Particularly with respect to forests, farms, livestock and motor
vehicles, it may be necessary for the Military Government to utilise
Imperial Household property to carry out its programs and further the
military administration of Japan. For example, in the event that
lumber is needed as building material for military purposes, use of
the resources of the crown forests might be required. It will be es-
sential that all peoductive and usable facilities needed in connection
with these programs be administered or managed by perscns known to
be willing to cooperate in attaining MG objectives.
4. Protecting Works of Art and other cultural materials.
In the event that Imperial palaces, axhibition halls or estates
are abandoned, and in view of the fact that such abandoned property
is specially liable to damage or looting, it will be a responsibility
of MG to secure such property in order to preserve law and order
and prevent pillage. Such protection, however, should not have
priority over the security of certain other classes of property
such as those owmed by United Nations nationals, but is espocially
indicated where such works of art may be used for the ultimate
purpose of restitution or compensation.
B.
Methods of Control
In general, two effective methods of control of crown proper-
ties are available to MG:
1. Splitting up of crown properties by category with management of
each category and personnel appertaining thereto transferred from
the Imperial Household Department to the suitable national government
departments.
This method would divorce property control from policy con-
cerning the status of the Emperor and his high officials, and would re-
move crown properties from the furisdiction of officials who might
reasonably be expected to be particularly hostile to MG and loyal
to the Imperial House. It also would help prevent the reconstitution
of the wealth of the Imperial Household after the termination of oc-
cupation. However, it would entail considerable administrative
difficulty and complexity, at least initially, and might interfere
with disposition of the property if policy to that effect were to be
applied during the period of MC.
16 008 P30 bu

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-30
2. Management of Imperial Household properties as a unit through the
Imperlal Household Department.
This method is most convenient because it would retain the old,
rather efficisnt organisstion with a minimum of administrative shifts
and with a direct line of authority. It would also make disposition
of crown property a relatively simple matter at any time. However,
the retention of the old organization intact carries with it a serious
danger of sabotage of MG objectives by the old officials (particularly
those appointed by the Emperor), who might be expected to be loyal
to the Emperor and hostile to MG. Effective control of the Department
can be established only through the substitution of an MG offioer or
officers for the Imperial Household Minister and Vice-inister and by
a thorough-going removal of all doubtful personnel from positions of
authority within the Department. On the assumption that such actions
are in accord with over-all policy, this method is recommended.
C. Degree of Supervision
While the MG authorities will be expected to take over control
of the crown properties, the extent and varied nature of the properties
will make it impossible for detailed supervision to be carried on over
all categories of crown properties by MG officers. Generally speaking,
crown properties will fall into four classes, each requiring a different
degree of supervision by MG, as follows:
1. Bullion, specie, currency, negotiable instruments, and other in-
tangibles are liquid assets and may be easily availed of for promoting
activities hostile to MG. They are also easily transferred fraudulently
or clandestinely to "dummies" or otherwise concealed to evade possible
eventual seizure ard disposition of United Nations authorities. On
the other hand, they present no managerial problems. Such propertias
should therefore be seized and turned over to the financial section
of MG.
2. Forests, farms, livestock and productive estates will present
primarily a problem of management for the purposes of maintaining the
value of the properties and utilizing them most fully in connection with
other MG programs. Since such properties cannot be easily utilised
to support hostile activities they will not require detailed MG
supervision, and since they are not particularly susceptible to pil-
lage, no special MG protection will be needed. As a rule, it will
be most desirable to leave the management of such properties to Japanese
officials subject to the direction of MG officers.
3. Living quarters, furnishings and personal property needed for the
day-to-day existence of the Emperor and his immediate family.
This category of crown property will be quite small in amount and
will not be specially liable to looting or susceptible to hostile use.
Neither will it be of any particular use in MG programs. It will,
therefore, require no outside management and might quite safely be
left to the management and use of the Imperial family within the
10-008 P40bu

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
limits imposed by MG policy towards the mperor and his immediate
family.
4. Liuseums, exhibition halls and abandoned palaces and estates will
require no control other than sealing and guarding.
D. Recommended Program
1. Appointment of a Crown Property Custodian
a. The value, oxtent and variety of the crom. properties, as
well as the importance of controllin. them effectively, make it
necessary to centralize all responsibility for control of such pro-
perties in one office. Therefore, a Crown Property Custodian should
be appointed from the staff of the Military Governrent to exercise
general control of the properties of the Imperial Household. If an
G officer is placed in charge of the Imperial Household Department
as a whole, he might well serve concurrently as Crown Froperty Cus-
todian or else exercise general supervision over the Crown Property
Custodian. In any event, the actions of the Crown Proverty Custodian
should be in conformity with general G policy towards the Imperial
Housenold.
b. In general, the Crown Pronerty Custodian should actively
aassume all the former functions of the Emperor and the  inister of
the Imperial Household with respect to crown property. Le should be
the representative of the crown properties in legal action and his
duties should include the promulgation of such detailed measures
as will be necessary to apply the Military Government property
control program, the maintenance of records, and the receipt and
inspection of accounts, balance sheets and such other reports as
might be required from Japanese officials appointed by
c. It may be desirable for the Crown Property Custodian to vest
title to the crown properties. Such vesting would facilitate the
mana oment of the crown properties by enabling the Crown Froperty
Custodian to dispose of properties when circumstances so dictate,
.g., when maintenance costs of property are too high, wnen retention
is otherwise uneconomical, or when needed to pay the salaries of employees
engaged in managing or otherwise working on the properties. Vesting
would automatically prevent any subsequent alienation of property
or withdrawal of bank deposits without the specific direction of
the Crowm Property Custodian and would therefore make blocking
procedures unnecessary. If it is not considered necessary to vest
titlo, the Crown Property Custodian should assume a "custodial"
title so that transfers might be made when dictated by considera-
tions of sound management.
d. The rown Property Custodian should have the authority to sus-
pend and amend such portions of the Imperial Household Property Ordi-
nance (Koshitsu Zaisan-rei), the Imperial Household Acoounting Ordinance
1 001 41 b

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
(Koshitsu Kaikei-rei), the Rules for the Application of the Imperial
Household Accounting Ordinance (Koshitsu Kaikei-rei Shiko Kisoku), and
such other ministerial ordinances as may be necessary to apply
effective controls.
e. The Crowm Property Custodian should set up a regular liaison
with other MG agencies to facilitate cooperation in MG programs other
than that of property control.
2. Invalidation of transfers
a. After vesting of title to the Imperial Household properties by
the Crowm Property Custodian, no subsequent transfers of title would be
valid unless made by the Crowm Property Custodian. However, if it is de-
cided not to vest title in the Crowm Property Custodian, all Imperial
Household property, including bank accounts, will have to be blocked
except for transactions licensed by the Crowm Property Custodian.
b. All transfers of title which were made prior to vesting and
which took effect on or after 7 December 194l may be presumed to have been
made for the purpose of evading or contravening MG controls and should
be declared invalid, unless they were made for the purchase of necessi-
ties of life for the Emperor and the Court, for salary payments to regular
employees of the Imperial Household Department or for custonary property
maintenance.
c. With the same exceptions, all transfers of title to property
in the yet unoccupied zone made subsequent to assumption of control
be declared invalid.
d. All tranafers, even those taking effect prior to 7 December 1941,
should be declared invalid if made for the purpose of evading or defeat-
ing MG controls.
3. Inventory of Imperial Household Properties
a. The description of crowm properties given in this report is neces-
sarily incomplete, out-of-date and in insufficient detail. As soon as
possible, therefore, Imperial Household properties in the occupied
areas should be listed. This listing need not be in great detail at
first but should be made for the purpose of indicating the properties
over which MG control will be placed. As the zone of occupation ax-
pands, additional crwon properties should be added. As soon as con-
venient, a detailed listing should be obtained or compiled. The
customary records and accounts, which are indicated in Chapter IV above,
may be helpful.
b. As more detailed listings are possible, all properties bearing
prima facie evidence of having been looted from China,or other areas
occupied by Japan, should be sequestered.
10 008 P42 bu

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
4. Removal of untrustworthy officials
As has been indicated above, the control of Crown properties
through a relatively intact Imperial Household Department organisation,
would confirm inlarge measure the authority of the incunbent officials
of the Department. Since such officials will probably be loyal to the
Imperial House and reluctant to harm its interests through certain of
the MG property control measures, close supervision of their activities
will be essential to the attainment of the MG objectives. But, however
close such supervision might be, the advantages conveyed to hostile
officials by their familiarity with the workings of the department and
the contimuance of their authority over their subordinates will make it
possible for them to intrigue against  G controls. It is therefore
recommended that those officials who by their past reoords are most
likely to be hostile to MG or especially loyal to the Imperial House
should be ruled ineligible to hold positions of authority with respect
to crown properties. It is suggested that the following persons be
considered ineligible:
a. All Japanese who actively participated, in a responsible
capacity, in the formulation or execution of Japanese imperialistic
policies prior to 7 December 194l, or in the prosecution of the Pacific
War since that date.
b.. All appointees of the Emperor himself, i.e., those holding shin-
nin or chokmin rank. As of July 1, 1939, there were 94 officials
(4 shinnin and 70 chokunin)of such rank holding office in the Imperial
Household Department, but only ten of these held positions of authority
with respect to crom properties: the Imperial Household Minister,
the Imperial Household Vice-Minister, one Counselor (Sanji-kan) of the
Winistry, the Chief of the Imperial Treasury Bureau, the Chief of the
Imperial Maws Buresu, the Chief of the Board of Imperial Anditors, and
the Chief, the Chief Secretary and two Technical Experts (gishi) of the
Imperial Forestry and Estates Bureau.
5.
Civil List
a. The Civil List was voted the Emperor for the maintenance of
the Imperial Court and the Imperial Household. On the assemption that
the Imperial Court, together w th its ritualh and functions, will be
suspanded during MG, and since the major portion of the Imperial
Household expenses have been incurred through the management of crowm
properties which will be under the control of MG and not theEmperor,
i is recommended that the Civil List be terminated. The day-to-day
living expenses of the Emperor and his immediate family, however,
should be considered as a legitimate governmental expense to be
paid out of governmental rovenues.
b. The pre-war income from the crown properties was more than
adequate to pay for their maintenance and for the salaries of the regular
employees of the Imperial Household Department who managed them.
18-008 P43 bu

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
The proceeds of the crown properties, therefore, should be used to pay
for such maintenance and salaries during the period of MG.
6.
Bullion, apecie, currency, negotiable instruments and other
intangibles
a. All stocks of gold and silver bullion, specie, currency and
all realizable securities, including corporate stocks, short-term
commercial paper and national, prefectural,municipal and corporate
bonds, should be seized, listed and turned over to the financial
section of MG, with the exception of such liquid assets as are neces-
sary to administer the crown forests, farms, stock farms and other crown
properties which are to be operated or maintained under Military Govern-
ment.
b. Lists of bullion, specie, currency and intangibles owmed by
the Imperial Household together with their location may be found in the
Imperial Capital Account or other records kept by the Imperial Treasury
Bureau. Records of short-term commercial paper will also probably be
found in the Ordinary Account kept by the Imperial Treasury Bureau.
The Bank of Japan, as the official deposit bank for the Imperial
Household, may have been custodian of a good part of the bullion,
specie and currency, and in the course of the reorganisation of the
Bank of Japan by MG, such stocks will probably be registered.l
c. No cash should be paid out, except that for salaries of regu-
lar Imperial Household Department employees and for maintenance of pro-
perties.
7. Productive forest and farms
a. Management of forests, farms and livestock should be contimued
in the Imperial Household Forestry and Estates Bureau, as is or in som
modified form, under the supervision of the Crowm Property Custodian.
This Bureau was relatively autonomous within the Imperial Household
Department and it may easily be utilized by the Crown Property Custodian
as a unit. To insure effective supervision, it may be desirable to
appoint an MG officer to take charge of this Bureau under the supervision
of the Crowm :roperty Custodian.
b. Scme of the crowm forests are likely to fall into MG hands
before crown property in any other categories, particularly if the occu-
pation of Japan proceeds from the north. If, as is likely, crown
forests come under MG control before the central office of the Imperial
1
See Civil Affairs Guide: Control and Use of The Bank of Japan during
The Period of Military Government.
10-008 P44 bu

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
Household Forestry and Estates Burean can be taken over, some of the
five branch offices and the sixty-three stations may be available to
MG for management purposes. As a rule, it will probably be most con-
venient for the Crown Property Custodian to work through the highest
administrative office of the Bureau available to him. If two or more
branch officer are in the occupied sone, the Crowm Property Custodian
might set up a skeleton central office to be combined with the regular
central Bureau office when the latter falls under MG control.
c. In most cases, the customary management procedures should be
continued. For security reasons and for the convenience of the Crown
Property Custodian, all communications, including reports and directives,
between stations, branches and the central Bureau office should be made
in parallel Japanese and English texts and duplicates filed with the
Crown Property Custodian.
d. Through a regular liaison between the Crown Property Custodian
and other MG agencies concerned, the crown forests should be enlisted
in any production program deemed essential by MG to the security of the
occupying forces or the tranquility of the civil population. It is
worthy of note that a similar arrangement between the Imperial Household
Department and the Department of Agriculture and Commerce has already
been used with success by the Japanese.
e. While little is known about the crown farms, on the basis of
other Japanese experience, it is likely that they are operated inde-
pendently by tenants with a minimum of superviwion or assistance by the
Imperial Household. Consequently, few problems of direct farm
management may be expected to face the Crown Property Custodian, whose
duties will probably be restricted largely to the collection of rents.
It is possible that temporary dislocation due to the war, sucii as lack
of fertilizer, breakdowm of irrigation, interference with cultivation
by military movements, the obligation of the peasantry to harbor home-
less relatives from devasted urban areas, etc. may compel some tenants
to forego payment of the customary rent. Since eviction of the tenant
under such conditions would interfere with the production of food and
since such eviction might well contribute to agrarian unrest, it is
recommended that evictions from crown lands for non-payment of rent be
suspended until norma? conditions are restored. This would be con-
sistent with customary Japanese practise which is to evict the tenant
only after it became clear that he will be unable to pay his ac-
cumulated back rent at any foreseeable time in the future. Rents col-
lected beyond the amount needed for administration should be transferred
to the MG finance section.
f. Stock-farms will probably be handed most conveniently in the
same manner as the forests.
8.
Palaces, estates, museums, and exhibition halls
As indicated above, the amall part of these properties in actual
use by the Emperor and his immediate family as living quarters might be
10-008 P45 00

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
left to the management of the Emperor. All others should be subjected
to a quick inventory when convenient and then sealed. The necessary
police measures should be taken to prevent pillage. If necessary the
pelaces and estates might be made available for billeting of military
forces.
9. Motor vehicles and similar facilities
All transportation facilities should be reported immediataly by the
Chief or the highest remaining official of the Imperial Maws Bureau to
the Crowm Property Custodian. These facilities are subject to seisure.
They may be of use in assisting military movements and should be made
available to the occupying forces as soon as possible.
10. Accounting and Records
a. A notice forbidding destruction or removal of records and
accounts relative to Imperial Household properties should be issued. 
b. As a result of measures taken by MG with respect to Imperial
Household properties, the accounting thereof will have to be modified:
1. Following the seizure of all bullion, specie, currency and
intangibles and their transfer to the financial section of MG, the Imperial
Capital Account will no lcnger be necessary and might well be closed.
All the items in the Main Fund section of the account will have been
seized, and income and disbursements relative thereto will have dis-
appeared. Any income from crown forests and farms normally transferred to
the Receipts and Disbursements section of the Account might be kept in
the Special Forestry and Estates Account or transferred to the financial
section of MG. The Fund for Reserve Supplies might be transferred to
the Ordinary Account.
ii. The Ordinary Account should be retained to keep accurate
record of the remaining crowm properties not kept in special aocounts.
iii. Certain of the Spacial Accounts might be closed for
the period of occupation if the relevant properties are sealed by .
iv. Other of the Special Acoounts should be retained for
institutions which may be permitted to operate, possibly the Bapress
Dowager's Household, or the Peers' school. In such cases, the ac-
counts should be kept by the institutions concerned. In particular,
the accounting of the crowm forests, farms and stock farms, should be
kept in the Special Forestry and Estates Account by the Acoounts
Section (Tokei-ka) of the Imperial Household and Estates Bureau, or
by whatever agency succeeds it.
c. It will probably be most convenient to assign all budgetry
and accounting functions, other than Special Accounts, to the Imperial
2 See Civil Affairs Quide on Preservation of Key Recorda in Japan.
18008 P40 bu

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
-37-
c. It will probably be most convenient to assign all budgetary
and accounting functions, other than Special Accounts, to the Dmperial
Treasury Bureau, which may be retained possibly in a modified form.
If it is decided to dissolve that Bureau, the Crowm Property Custodian
should make use of its experienced personnel.
d. In general, customary accounting and budgotary procedures
should is retained as far as possibie for convenience of Mù. The
detailed balance sheet and other important documents should be drawm
up in parallel Japanese and English texts.
11. Auditing
Anditing formerly carried on by the Board of Imperial Anditors
should be similarly assigned to a board of anditors, appointed by the
Crowm Property Custodian. This board should consist of carefully
screened Japanese with a knowledge of English and adequate technical
training.
10-000 P67 mebu

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
COIFIDENTIAL
-38-
APPENDIX A.
(in oho)
A. By year
Total
Yoar
Forest Area
Crown Forests
1914
21,033,600
1,942,800
1915
22,279,800
1,488,500
1918
22,292,800
1,391,800
1921
22,042,700
1,420,800
1924
23,215,200
1,376,000
1927
22,902,700
1,361,100
1930
23,203,000
1,444,600
1933
23,842,800
1,425,700
1936
24,186,400
1,380,100
1939
24,079,800
1,334,600
B. By prefecture, 1939
Total
Total
Prefecture
Forest Area
Crown Forest
Prefeoture Forest Area Crown Forest
Hokkaido
6,576,037
901,229
Shiga
158,853
Aomori
624,514
21,101
Kyoto
319,158
Iwato
1,078,957
43,632
Osaka
32,510
Miyagi
443,104
Hyogo
449,210
Akita
762,562
Nara
178,417
Yamagata
632,443
Wakayama
311,757
Fukushima
997,613
1,809
Totteri
203,990
Ibaraki
223,365
Shimane
410,976
Tochigi
411,005
16,543
Okayama
415,833
Gumma
402,035
14,540
Hiroshima
495,105
Saitama
120,220
Yamaguchi
333,432
Chiba
153,724
637
Tokushima
327,989
Tokyo
77,686
1,355
Kagawa
94,359
Kanagawa
120,425
7,414
Ehime
305,679
Niigate
697,955
Kochi
444,585
Toyama
210,638
Fukuoka
218,476
Ishikawa
172,561
Saga
107,015
Fukui
238,817
Nagasaki
146,191
Yamanashi
334,328
3,359
Kumamoto
402,754
Magano
1,033,979
161,684
Oita
447,596
Gifu
759.264
57,264
Miyazaki
572,390
Shizueka
439,844
83,837
Kagoshima
473,310
Aichi
256,687
14,098
Okinawa
130,363
Miye
327,081
5,870
1
Source: Norinsho Tokei-hyo (Statistios of the Department of Agrioulture
and Forestry) 1939 p. 167.
Noto: 1 cho equals 2.45 aorea
16-008 P49 bu

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
10-008P50
bu
AIPENDIX B.
A. By year
Coniferous
Broad-Leafed
Total
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
(cu. motera)
(yen)
(cu. meters)
(yen)
(cu. meters)
(yon)
1929
822,653
7,411,187
376,587
1,791,252
1,199,240
9,202,439
1930
779,389
5,204,868
259,801
923,067
1,039,190
6,127,935
1931
916,007
4,376,202
322,853
848,330
1,238,860
5,224,532
1932
944,501
4,079,861
412,723
998,839
1,357,224
5,078,700
1933
940,851
7,178,853
364,537
1,793,485
1,305,388
8,972,338
COMFIDEIITIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
1934
935,013
7,931,812
339,597
2,162,100
1,274,710
10,093,912
L35
1,012,579
8,207,409
391,600
1,847,090
1,404,179
10,055,099
1936
869,604
7,438,190
438,991
2,560,358
1,308,595
9,998,548
1937
943,610
11,786,911
519,538
4,171,773
1,463,148
15,958,684
1938
863,929
13,580,600
548,211
4,972,070
1,412,140
18,552,670
1939
942,065
17,533,988
705,552
6,571,235
1,647,617
24,105,223
B. By Forestry District, 1939
Sepporo
164,155
2,133,199
307,139
3,044,947
471,294
6,178,146
sahigawa
189,394
2,607,622
278,821
2,893,567
468,215
5,501,198
Tokyo
45,002
458,580
17,128
98,672
62,130
557,252
agoya
179,296
3,884,617
50,637
271,322
229,933
4,155,939
Kiso
357,468
8,363,913
51,767
262,372
409,235
B,626,285
Experiment
6,750
86,057
60
346
6,810
86,403
Station
1
Adapted from Norinsho Tokei-hyo (Statistics of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry)
1939 p. 280

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
1
APPENDIX C.
STOCK-HOLDINGS OF IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD AND THEIR ESTIMATED VALUE
(in August 1940)
2
No. of Shares
Hold by Imp-
Market Value
Corporation
erial Household
Par Value
Per Share  Total Holdings
Banking
Sumitomo Ginkg (Sumitomo Bank)
3,000
¥100
¥156.50
￥469,500.00
Sanwa Ginko  (Sanma Bank)
800
50
73.15
58,520.00
Jugo Ginko (No. 15 Bank)
3,055
100
104.10
318,025.50
Dai Iohi Ginko (No. 1 Bank)
6,000
50
89.15
534,900.00
Taiwan Ginko (Bank of Taiwan)
7,566
100
124.05
938,562.30
Chosen Ginko (Bank of Chosen)
2,600
100
118.60
308,360.00
CONFIDENTIAL
Chosen Shokusan Ginko (Chosen
CONFIDENTIAL
Colonization Bank)
9,000
50
79.20
712,800.00
9,000
25
41.80
376,200.00
-40-
Nippon Ginko (Bank of Japan)
70,426
200
551.50
38,839,939.00
70,426
100
402.50
28,346,465.00
Nippon Kogyo Ginko (Japan Industrial Bank)
22,725
50
61.10
1,388,497.50
22,725
12.5
15.80
359,056.00
Nippon Kangyo Ginko (Hypothec Bank of Japan)
12,750
50
92.55
1,180,012.50
Mitaui Ginko (Mitsui Bank)
4,500
50
85.75
385,875.00
Mitsubishi Ginko (Mitsubishi Bank)
4,500
100
158.00
711,000.00
Hokkaido Takushoku Ginko (Hokkaido
Colonization Bank)
3,000
50
64.65
193,950.00
Yokohama Shokin Ginko (Yokohama Specie Bank)
224,912
100
194.25
43,689,156.00
Totel
118,810,817.80
Trust Companies
Mitsubishi Shintaku KK (Mitsubishi Trust Co.)
5,000
50
25.65
128,250.00
128,250.00
Total
Insurance
Tokyo Kaijo Kasai Hoken KK (Tokyo Maritime
and Fire Insurance Co.)
3,000
50
143.00
429,000.00
429,000.00
16-008 P81
Total
bu

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
16008
P52
bu
APPENDIX C. (cont'd)
No. of Shares
Held by Imp-
Market Value
Corporation
erial Household
Par Value
Per Share
Total Holdings
Railroads
5
humae Tetsudo Kk (Rumae Railroad Co.)
1,000
¥50
50.00
50,000.00
Cikawa Totsudo KX (Oikawa Railroad Co.)
18,000
50
22.00
396,000.00
Ninami Manshu Tetsudo KK (South Lanchuria
Railway Co.)
37,500
50
72.55
2,720,625.00
CONFIDENTIAL
Yubari Tetsudo KK (Yubari Railroad Co.)
5,000
30
35.00
175,000.00
Total
3,341,625.00
CONFIDENTIAL
Steemship Lines
-41-
(saka Shosen KK (Osaka Commercial Ship Co.)
0,423
50
92.60
594,769.80
6,422
25
63.20
405,870.40
Aippon Yusen KK (Japan Mail Steamship Co.)
101,100
50
94.50
15,223,950.00
Iissei Kisen Kk (Sino-Japanese Steamship Co.)
210
50
07.00
14,472.00
Total
16,239,062.20
Yining
Fokkaido Tanko Kisen KK (Hokkaido Coal Lining
79,888
50
75.60
0,044,326.08
and Stoamship Co.)
79,888
12.5
19.00
1,517,872.00
Total
7,562,198.08
Paper
Cji Seishi KK
31,034
50
92.90
2,883,058.60
31,034
25
58.30
1,809,282.20
Total
4,692,340.80
Sugar
Taiwan Seito KK (Formosa Sugar Refining Co.)
19,300
50
111.30
2,148,090.00
19,300
20
55.30
1,067,290.00
Total
3,216,380.00

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX C. (oont'd)
No. of Shares
Held by Imp-
Market Value
Corporation
erial household
Par Value
Per Share
Total Holdinga
Utilities
Tokyo Dento KK (Tokyo Electric Light Co.)
23,972
¥50
¥62.35
￥1,494,654.20
Tokyo Gasu Ki (Tokyo Gas Co.)
11,275
50
71.50
806,162.50
6,637
25
36.50
242,250.50
Total
2,543,067.20
Colonization
Toyo Takushoku KK (Criental Development Co.)
25,000
50
66.25
1,656,250.00
Total
1,656,250.00
Hotels
CONFIDENTIAL
-42-
Teikoku Hoteru KK (Imperial Hotel)
14,700
50
50.75
834,225.00
Total
834,225.00
GRAND TOTAL
¥159,452,216.08
Souroe: Hikiu Shoken kaisha kyokai, Kebushiki haisha Nenkan (Corporation Yearbook) Tokyo, 1941.
In cases where the particular denominations held were not clear, the best guess based on the
limited evidence available was made.
3
Larket value is average of high and low for August 1940.
4
Eeld by the Imperial household Department Mutual Aid Society.
5
Loldings in this company are as of 1933, as no later information was available. In the absence of
1940 market value, par value was used. Source: Ginko haisha Yoroku (Roster of Banks and Companies)
Tokyo,1934, "Tokyo" section p.104.
16-008 P53 bu

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
18-008 PB4
1
APPENDIX D
INCOLE OF TAPERIAL HOUSEHOLD FRON STOCK-HOLDINGS
1938
1939
Corporation
No. of Shares
Par Value
Dividend Rate
Dividend
Dividend Rate
Divided
(in yen)
(in percent
(in yen)
(in peroent
(in you)
of par)
of par)
Banking
Sumitemo Ginko
3,000
100
8.0
24,000
8.0
24,000
Jugo Ginko
3,055
100
no dividend
no dividend
3.5
10,692
Dai Ichi Ginko
6,000
50
8.0
24,000
8.0
24,000
Taiwan Ginko
7,566
100
6.0
37,830
6.0
45,396
Chosen Ginko
2,600
100
5.0
13,000
6.0
16,600
CONFIDENTIAL
Chosen Shokusan Ginko
9,000
50
9.0
40,500
9.0
40,500
CONFIDENTIAL
9,000
25
9.0
20,250
9.0
20,250
Nippon Ginko
70,426
200
10.0
1,408,520
10.0
1,408,520
70,426
100
10.0
704,260
10.0
704,260
Nippon Kogyo Ginko
22,725
50
6.0
68,175
6.0
68,175
22,725
12.5
6.0
17,043
6.0
17,043
Nippon Kangyo Ginko
12,750
50
10.0
63,750
10.0
63,750
Litsui Ginko
4,500
50
8.0
18,000
8.0
18,000
Litsubishi Ginko
4,500
100
8.0
36,000
8.0
36,000
Hokkaido Takushoku Ginko
3,000
50
7.0
10,500
7.0
10,500
Yokohama Shokin Ginko
224,912
100
10.0
2,249,120
10.0
2,249,120
Trust Companies
Mitsubishi Shintaku KK
5,000
50
7.0
7,550
7.0
7,550
Insurance
Tokyo Kaijo Kasai Hoban KK
3,000
50
16.0
24,000
16.0
24,000
Utilities
Tokyo Dento KK
23,972
50
8.0
95,888
8.0
95,888
Tokyo Gasu KK
11,275
60
8.0
45,100
8.0
45,100
6,637
25
8.0
15,274
8.0
13,274

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
APFENDIX D (oont'd)
1938
1939
Corporation
No. of Shares
Par Value
Dividend Rate
Dividend
Dividend Rate
Dividend
(in yen)
(in percent
(in yen)
(in percent
(in yon)
of par)
of par)
Railroads
Olkawa Tetsudo KK
18,000
50
2.0
18,000
2.0
18,000
Minami Manshu Totsudo KK
37,500
50
8.0
150,000
8.0
150,000
Yubari Tetsudo KK
5,000
30
5.0
7,501
5.0
7,501
Steamship Limes
Osaka Shosen KK
6,423
50
6.5
20,904
7.5
24,120
6,422
25
6.5
10,467
7.5
12,075
Nippon Yusen KK
161,100
50
6.0
483,300
7.5
604,128
Nissei Kison KK
216
50
no dividend
no dividend no dividond
no dividad
Mining
Hokkaido Tanko Kisen
79,888
50
8.5
339,524
9.0
359,469
79,888
12.5
8.5
76,692
9.0
89,474
Paper
Ofi Seishi KK
31,034
50
10.0
155,170
10.0
155,170
31,034
25
10.0
77,585
10.0
77,585
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Suger
Taiwan Seito KK
19,300
50
12.0
115,800
12.0
115,800
19,300
20
12.0
46,320
12.0
46,320
Colonisation
Toyo Takuahoku KK
25,000
50
6.0
75,000
7.0
87,500
Hotols
Tefkoku Hoteru KK
14,700
50
4.5
33,075
6.5
47,776
GRAND TOTAL
6.530,09B
6,736,533
Source: Bikiu Shoken Kaisha Kyokai, Kabushiki Kaisha Nonkan (Corporatien Yearbook), Tekyo, 1941.
For translation of company names, see Appendix A.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
16-008 PAA
bu
APPENDIX E.
IMPERIAL ESTATES IN 1935
Estate
Area
Location
(in cho)
I. Hereditary Estatos
578.38
A. Palaces
475.29
1. Imperial Palace
212.31
Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
2. Akasaka Detached Palace
61.86
Akasaka-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
3. Hama Detached Palace
25.16
Kyobashi-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
4.
Kyoto Palace
90.23
Kamikyo-ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
5.
Nijo Detached Palace
27.68
Nakakyo-ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
CONFIDENTIAL
6.
Katsura Detached Palace
4.39
Ukyo-ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
CONFIDENTIAL
7.
Shugakuin Detached Palace
28.08
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
8. Hakone Detached Palace
13.66
Koto Hakone-mura, Ashigara Shimo-gun,
Kanagawa-ken
9. Takanawa Imperial Estate
11.92
Shiba-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
-45-
B. Building land
38.99
1. Shosoin Treasury
1.72
Nara-shi, Nara-ken
2. Ueno Imperial Estato
10.64
Shitaya-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
3. Minami Toshima Imperial Estate
26.63
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
C. Miscellaneous Land
64.10
1. Aoyama Imperial Grounds
.67
Akasaka-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
2. Minami Toshima Imperial Estate
63.43
Yotsuya-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu, and
Sendagaya-machi, Tokotama-gun, Tokyo-fu
II. Ordinary Estates
A. Palaces and Villas
1. Kasumigaseki Detached Palace
Kojimaohi-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
2. Muko Detached Palace
Kobe-shi, Hyogo-ken
3. Hayama Imperial Palace
NA
Hayama-cho, Kanagawa-ken
4. Tatoishi Rest House
NA
Nishiura-mira, Kanagawa-ken
5. Numazu Imperial Villa
I
Agehara-machi, Numazu-shi, Shizuoka-ken

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX E (cont'd)
Estate
Area
Looation
(in cho)
6. Nikko Imperial Villa
NA
Nikko-machi, Kami Tsuga-gun, Toohigi-ken
7. Tamozawa Imperial Villa
NA
Nikko-machi, Kami Tsuga-gun, Tochigi-ken
8. Shiobara Imperial Villa
NA
Shiobara-machi, Shioya-gun, Tochigi-ken
9. Nasu Imperial Villa
NA
Nasu-mura, Nasu-gun, Tochigi-ken
10. Ikaha Imperial Estate
NA
Ikaho-machi, Gumma-gun, Gumna-ken
B. Imperial Stock Farus and Game Preserves
1. Shimosa Stock farm
NA
Toyana-mura, Iohihara-gun, Chiba-ken
2. Niikappu Stock farm
IA
Shizunai-machi, Shizunai-gun, Hokkaido
3. Edogawa Hunting Preserve
NA
Chiba-ken
-46-
Edogawa Hunting Preserve
NA
Saitama-ken
5.
Nagaragawa Fishing Preserve
IA
Gifu-ken
6. Jintsugawa Fishing Preserve
NA
Toyana-ken
7. Imperial Fish Hatchery
NA
Chuzenji-ko, Nikko-machi, Kani Tsuga-gun,
Tochigi-ken
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
NA - Not Available; 1 cho = 2.45 aores
Souroes: "Seiden Goryo-ni kansuru toohi-no shozai chiban chimoku oyobi monzoku" (Location,
number and area of land belonging to hereditary Imperial Estates), Gendai Horei
Shuran, Koshitsu-hen, Koshitsu zsiau, Vol. I p. 237; Koshitsu Keigo Benran (Imperial
Household Handbook) Tokyo 1940 pp 3-16; Japan-lanohoukuo Year Book 1940 p.48.
16-008 P57 bu

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
16-008
APPENDIX F.
STOCK HOLDINGS OF IMPERIAL PRINCES IN JAPANESE CORPORATIONS (Aug. 1940)
No.of Shares
Held by Imp-
Par Value
Market Value
bu
Company
erial Princes
Per Share
Per Share
Total Max.
Total Min.
(in yen)
(in yen)
(in yen)
(in yen)
Chosen Shokusan Ginko (Chosen
Devolopment Bank)
3,730
50;25
79.2; 41.8
295,453
155,951
Dai Nippon Demryaku KK (Great
Nippon Electric Power Co.)
4,625
50;25
64.9; 34.65
308,172
161,156
Hodogaya Kagaku Kogyo KK(Hodogaya
Chemical Industries Co.)
1,000
50;25
67.5;38.9
67,500
38,900
Hokkaido Takushoku Ginko(Hokkaido
Colonization Bank)
9,080
50; 12.5
64.65; 17.35
587,022
187,538
Kita Shina Kaihatsu KK(North China
Development Co.)
70
12.5
16.4
1,148
1,148
CONFIDENTIAL
Koito Seisaku-sho (Koito Engineer-
ing Works)
300
50;25
64.75; 41.25
19,425
12,375
Kyoto Gasu KK (Kyoto Gas Co.)
400
50;30
70.35;41
28,140
16,400
Manshu Dengyo KK(Manchuria Electric
Co.)
600
50;37.5
58.2; 44.4
34,920
26,640
Manshu Denshin Denwa KK (Manchuria
Telegraph and Telephone Co.)
1,200
37.5
43.95
52,740
52,740
Meidensha (electric machinery
mamufacturing)
2,600
50;35
83.5; 63.25
217,100
164,450
Meiji Seito KK (Meiji Sugar Mamu-
facturing Co.)
345
50;30
108.35;68.50
37,308
23,642
Mitsukoshi (building)
280
50;20
81.90;36.50
22,932
10,220
Minami Manshu Gasu KK (South
Manchuria Gas Co.)
300
50
74
22,000
22,000
Minami Manshu Tetsudo KK (South
Manchria Railway Co.)
15,185
50
71.95
1,092,560
1,092,560
Mitsubishi Ginko (Mitsubishi Bank)
2,570
100;25
158.5; 47.45
407,345
122,717
Nakr. Shina Shinko KK (Central
China Development Co.)
30
12.5
19.65
589
589
Nambei Takushoku KK (South American
Colonization Co.)
100
17.5
9.75
375
975
Nippon Aruminiumu Kk (Nippon
Alumimm Co.)
1,000
50;37.5
73.40; 59.35
73,400
59,350

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
(Appendix F - cont'd)
No.of Shares
Held by Imp-
Par Value
Market Value
Company
orial Prinoes
Per Share
Per Share
Total Max.
Total Min.
(in yen)
(in ven)
(in yen)
(in yen)
Nippn Ginko (Bank of Japan)
200
200;100
551.5; 502.5
110,300
100,500
Nippon Kangyo Ginko (Hypothec
Bank of Japan)
3,993
50;12.5
92.55;26.95
369,552
107,611
Nippon Kogyo Ginko (Industrial
Bank of Japan)
9,600
50; 12.5
61.1; 15.8
586,560
151,680
Nippon Koahuwa Jukogyo KK(Japan
High Frequency Heavy Industry Co.) 2,000
30
58
116,000
116,000
Nippon Satekkogyo KK (Japan Sand
Iron and Steel Co.)
1,000
50;25
71.5; 43.5
71,500
43,500
Nippon Seitetsu KK (Japan Iron
and Steel Mamuftcturing Co.)
4,440
50;37.5
62; 47.3
275,280
210,012
Nippen Yuson Kaishia (Japan Mail
Steamship Line)
244
50;37.5
94.4; 78.85
24,058
19,228
Oji Seishi KK (Oji Paper Co.)
1,580
50;25
92.9; 58.15
236,642
202,825
-48-
CONFIDENTIAL
Rikken Korandamu KK (Rikken
Carborundum Co.)
2,000
50
60.5
121,000
121,000
Sankyo KK (Sankyo Co.,-chemicals)
375
50
50;72.80
34,090
34,090
Sanwa Ginko (Sanwa Bark)
2,200
50;25
73.15;35.85
160,930
78,870
Showa Chisso Hiryo KK (Showa
Nitrogen Fertilizer Co.)
600
50;37.5
91.3:77.65
54,780
46,590
Showa Denko KK (Showa Eectric
Industries Co.)
100
50;25
58.5;30.7
5,850
3,070
Showa Hikoki Kogyo KK. (Showa
Aircraft Industries Co.)
2,000
12.5
20.2
40,400
40,400
Taiwan Denryoku KK (Taiwan
Electric Power Co.)
1,460
50;12.5
61.95;19.6
90,447
28,616
Toho Tanko KK (Eastorn Colliery Co.) 3,000
50;12.5
43.55; 12.2
130,650
36,600
Toyo Hatabako KK (Oriental
Leaf Tobacco Co.)
500
50;32.5
98.4; 77.9
49,200
38,950
Toyo Kogyo Kk (Oriental
Industries Co.)
1,000
50; 12.5
70.25; 32.2
70,250
32,200
16-000
Toyo Takushoku KK(Oriental Coloniza-
tion Co.)
5,000
50;37.5
66.25; 52.3
331,250
236,500
P69
Yokohama Sholin Ginko (Yokohama
bu
Specie Bank)
5,838
100
194.1
1,132.155
1.132.155
TOTAL
89,545
7,279,623.
4,929,748

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-49-
APPENDIX G.
BRANCHES AND STATIONS OF THE IMPERIAL
FORESTRY AND ESTATES BUREAU (July 1939)
Sapporo Branch - 1, Nishi, Kita Sanjo-cho, Sapporo-shi, Hokkaido
1.
Hakodate Station - Shiomi-cho, Hakodate-shi, Hokkaido
2.
Esashi Station - Esashi-machi, Hiyama-gun, Hokkaido
3.
Tomekomai Station - Tomakomai-machi, Yubutsu-gun, Hokkaido
4.
Niikappu Station - Shizunai-machi, Shisunai-gun, Hokkaido
5.
Sapporo Station - 1 Nishi, Kita Sanjo-cho, Sapporo-shi, Hokkaido
6.
Yodoyama-kei Station - Toyohira-machi, Sapporo-gun, Hokkaido
7.
Yubari Station - Yubari-machi, Yubari-gun, Hokkaido
8.
Oyubari Station - Yubari-machi, Yubari-gun, Hokkaido
9.
Iwamisawa Station - Iwamisawa-machi, Sorachi-gun, Hokkaido
10.
Kami Ashibetsu Station - Ashibetsu-mra, Sorachi-gun, Hokkaido
11.
Shimo Ashibetsu Station - Ashibetsu-mra, Sorachi-gun, Hokkaido
Asahigawa Branch - Kagura-machi, Kamikawa-gun, Hokkaido
1.
Fukagawa Station - Fukagawa-machi, Uryu-gun, Hokkaido
2.
Rurumoppe Station - Rurumoppe-machi, Rurimoppe-gun, Hokkaido
3.
Haboro Station - Haboro-machi Station, Tomamae-gun, Hokkaido
4.
Furano Station - Furano-machi, Sorachi-gun, Hokkaido
5.
Asahigawa Station - Kagura-machi, Kamikawa-gun, Hokkaido
6.
No. 1 Shibetsu Station - Shibetsu-machi, Kamikawa-gun, Hokkaido
7.
No. 2 Shibetsu Station - Kami Shibetsu-mura, Kamikawa-gun,
Hokkaido
8.
Nayoro Station - Nayoro-machi, Kamikawa-gun, Hokkaido
9.
Shimogawa Station - Shimogawa-mra, Kemikawa-gun, Hokkaido
10.
Teshikaga Station - Teshikaga-mra, Kawakami-gun, Hokkaido
Tokyo Branch - 1 chome; Msrunouchi-cho, Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo-shi, Tokyo-fu
1. Toyozumi Station - 1 chome, Toyozumi-cho, Fukagawa-ku, Tokyo-ahi,
Tokyo-fu
2. Noechi Station - Noechi-machi, Kamikita-gun, Apmori-ken
3. Morioka Station - Hikagemon Sotokoji-koaza, Nio-oaza, Morioka-
shi, Iwate-ken
4.
Tono Station - Tono-machi, Kami Hei-gun, Iwate-ken
5.
Utsunomiya Station - Hanahada-machi, Utsunomiya-shi, Tochigi-ken
6.
Maebashi Station - Kuruwa-cho, Maebashi-shi, Gumma-ken
7.
Yokoyama Station - Yokoyama-mra, Minami Tama-gun, Tokyo-fu
8.
Odawara Station - Odawara-machi, Ashigara Shimo-gun, Kanagawa-kan
9.
Numazu Statlon - Sembon-cho, Numazu-shi, Shizuoka-ken
10.
Tenjo Station - Kami Kano-mra, Takata-gun, Shizuoka-ken
11.
Kawazu Station - Kami Kawazu-mura. Kamo-gun, Shizuoka-ken
CONFIDENTIAL
10-008 P60 bu

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
-50-
CONFIDENTIAL
(Appendix G - cont'd)
Nagova Branch - 1 chome, Buhei-cho, Higashi-ku, Nagoya-shi, Aichi-ken
1. Atsuta Station - Atsuta Nishi-cho, Atsuta-ku, Nagoya-ahi,
Aichi-ken
2. Osaka Station - 4 chome, Temmabashisuji, Kita-ku, Osaka-shi,
Osaka-fu
3. Senzu Station - Kami Kawane-mura, Haibara-gun, Shizuoka-ben
4. Kakegawa Station - Kakegawa-machi, Ogasa-gun, Shisuoka-ken
Keta Station - Keta-mra, Sochi-gun, Shisuoka-ken
6.
Hamamatsu Station - Taka-machi, Hamamatsu-shi, Shisuoka-ken
7.
Toyohashi Station - Nakahachi-cho, Toyohashi-shi, Aichi-ken
8.
Shinshiro Station - Shinshiro-machi, Minami Shitara-gun, Aichi-
ken
9. Aichi Station - 1 chome, Buhei-cho, Higashi-ku, Nagoya-shi,
Aichi-ken
10. Nakatsu Station - Nakatsu-machi, Ena-gun, Gifu-ken
Tsukechi Station - Tsukechi-machi, Ena-gun, Gifu-ken
12.
Osaka Station - Osaka-machi, Masuda-gun, Gifu-ken
13.
Takayama Station - Hanasato-oasa, Takayama-shi, Gifu-ken
14.
Gero Station - Gero-machi, Masuda-gun, Gifu-ken
15.
Oda Station - Furui-machi, Kamo-gun, Gifu-ken
16.
Kyoto Station - Yamato Daiji Higashi-iri, Shichiji-dori,
Higashiyama-ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Kiso Branch - Fukushima-machi, Niahi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
1. Kamimatsu Shipping Station - Kamimatsu-machi, Nishi Tsukma-
gun, Nagano-ken
2. Suwa Station, Kami Suwa-machi, Suwa-gun, Nagano-ken
3.
Ina Station - Ina-machi, Ina-gun, Nagano-ken
4.
Iida Station - Hamai-cho, Iida-shi, Nagano-ken
5.
Narai Station - Narakawa-mura, Niahi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
6.
Yabuhara Station - Kiso-mura, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
7.
Fukushima Station - Fukushima-machi, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
8.
Otaki Station - Otaki-mura, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-kan
9.
Miura Station - Utaki-mra, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
10.
Kamimatsu Station - Kamimatsu-machi, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
11.
Nojiri Station - Okuwa-mura, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
12.
Hidcno Station - Yomikaki-mura, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
13.
Taumakago Station - Azuma-mura, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
14.
Yufunasawa Station - Misaka-mura, Nishi Tsukuma-gun, Nagano-ken
Forestry Experiment Station - Yokoyama-mra, Minami Tama-gun, Tokyo-fu
Source: Shokuin-roky (Government Register) July 1939 Part IV pp. 21-25
CONFIDENTIAL
16-008 P61 bu

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
-51--
CONFIDENTIAL
(Appendix G - cont'd)
Definition of geographical terms used:
aza - hamlet, subdivision of casa
cho - precinot
fu - urban prefecture
gun - county
ken - rural prefecture
ku - ward
machi - urban towmship, or precinot
mra - rural towmahip
oaza - hamlet, sometimes subdivision of shi
shi - city
CONFIDENTIAL
16-00s Poa bu rinal

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.93)
5
My dear Mr. Gaynor:
Ackmowledgment is made of the receipt of the report
894.504/10-2545
entitled "Working Conditione other than Wages and Mours
in Japan" which you so kindly furnished this Division.
Sinoerely yours,
Seymour J. Rubin
Chiof
Division of Hoonomie Seeurity Controls
1T
ld
Xr. Constance G. Caynor, Chief,
Projoot Control Starf,
CR
OCT 24 1445 P.M.
/VJ
Foreign Keonomie Administration,
Washington, D. C.
ES:SJRubin:MF
10-23-45

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION COPY
AVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACTION? IP
IPO:
3691
DVF-G
S
U
Paraphrase before com-
Shanghai via Javy
municating to anyone.
C
A-C
Dated Jenuary 4, 1946
A-D
FE
SECRET
Rec'd 12:50 p.m., 11t.
DC/L
FC
DC/R
RE STATE
P.BS
894.504/1
Secretary of State
又
7ile
16
Washington
74-96
:CN1AL
4, January 4, 10 a.m
Commander Oliver  : ey, Industriar Reletions, Navy
no
-446
Department visited hanghai this week to ascertain avail-
abillty of Chinese labor for construction work in Guam.
Ramsey 1s touring Pacific area for data on available
migratory labor. Lie has already discussed matter 
ITP/D
Philippine officials but does not desire to use Philippine
/∠Hh
labor. He has not explored avallability of Korean labor
ITP
CP
in areas now under Tavy's jurlsdictien or other sources of
ILH
IR
labor in areas under Army or Wavy control. He intends to
LA
V
Ramsey states that he will return Washington
first week February to meke re oumendations to Havy
Contidential Fi
Department and discues metter with State Department.
Consulate assicted Ramsey make contact with Chinese
officials for inforaation purposes only. Lu Ching Shih
Minister Soclal Affeirs thought thet such lebor ig evail-
able and government would be favorably disposed. He
2
ile
suggested that Friedmen take up subject with Minfster
9
during visit
SEORET

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2- #4, January 4, 10 a.m., from Shanghai via Navy
during visit to Chungking.
Sent to Department as Shanghai serial number 4;
repeated to Chungking as number one, January 4, 10 a.m.
We mentioned informally to Ramsey such matters as
international labor standards, international supervision
and inspection, as well as use of foreign labor while
Phil:'jine labor is available.
BSELYN
WTD
NOTE: Delay due to original message being undecipherable.
SECRET

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION CF
 OF STATE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
FF111946
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, January 18, 1946
No. 211
4R
P.B.S
FA
Subject:
: Transmitting Copy of Welfare Ministry Ordinance
Forbidding Discrimination Against Workers.
10R/
FEC
894.504/1-1846
The United States Pclitical Adviser has the honor to
tranemit copies of Welfare Ministry Ordinance No. 2, pro-
mulgated and enforced as of January 10, 1946, penalizing
employers who discriminete against their employees because
of their nationality, religion, or social status.
CS/LE
1946
Copy of Welfare Ministry
Ordinance No. 2
OFSTATE
Original and hectograph to Department.
850.4
JSService: jwb
894.504
4h
FEB 27 1946
CTO
SENT TO 

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
Eaclosure to Despatch No. 21l of Jamuary 18, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan on the subjeet
"Tramsmitting Copy of Welfare Ministry Ordimance Forbidding
Diserimimation Agaimst Workers."
Welfare Ministry Ordinance No. 2,
promulgated 10 Jamuary 1946.
Under Imperial Ordimance No. 542, of 1945, the mployment and
terms of labor for workers are prescribed as follows:
10 January 1946.
Hitoshi Ashida,
Minister of Welfare.
Welfare Ministry Ordinance No. 2
Article l. No proprietor of a factory, plant, or other working
place shall give any discrimimative treatment concerning wages, sala-
ries, working hours, or other terms of labor either for or agaimst
workers in his service because of their nationality, religion or so-
cial status.
Article 2. The local governor or Chief of the Labor Office is
authorized to require a report from persons concermed, if deemed
mecessary for the enforcement of the present Ordinance.
The local govermor or Chief of the Labor Office is authoried to
have an iaspection made by competent officials of the conditions of
labor, books, and other documents, as well as other relevant matters,
by paying a personal visit to the factory, plant, or other working
place, if he deems it necessary for the enforcement of the present
Ordimamce. In this case, the competent officials shall carry with
them the credentials shown on the annexed sheet indicating their of-
ficial status.
Article 3. Any person who has contravened the provisions of
Article 1 shall be liable to a fine not exceeding 3,000 yen.
Article 4. Any person who has failed to submit the report speci-
fied in paragraph 1 of Article 2, made a false entry ia his report, or
refused, impeded, or evaded an inspection by competent officials as
provided for in paragraph 2 of the same Article shall be liable to a
fine not exceeding 500 YEN.
Article 5. In case the representative of a juridical person, or
an agent, employee, or other worker of a juridical person or indivi-
dual has acted in violation of Article 3 or the first clause of the
preceding Article with respect to the business of the said juridical
person or individual, the said juridicel person or individual shall be
liable to the fimes as provided for in the preceding two Articles in
addition to the person at fault.
Supplementary Provisions
This Ordinance shall come iato force as from the day of promulga-
tiom.
Anmered sheet (onitted)

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.89)
OF1
EMBASSY OF THE
FEB 20 1946
UNITED STATES OF ANERICA
Rim
ogotá, January
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 1 4 1946
AA
1331
HO.
Division o
NTERNATIONAL LABOR SOC
AND HEALTH AFFAIRS·ILH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DUN
REPORTING SERVICES
SUBJECT:
rticle frcm Liarie Popular
Japanese Lator Movement.
SHIPPING DIVISION
The Hororat le
The Secretary  State,
894.504/1
M
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
Sir:
I : ave the
derwith, in copy and
tronsia!
earei In the
local tomrunist
2446
the Japanese la or move
ment.
tment will note that the article in
question is stateo to nave
reen written in wossow and sent
to the newsp aper  carle servie
fon cwil
John .ley
Inclosures:
1.
Frem Eiaric Popular
Janvary 23, 1946.
894.504
2.
Translation oi arove
Article.
FEB26 1946
rigtral and nectogranh to 
eDSIC UMRICAN BEIS ARE
D
850.4
DIVISION - (ABA)
AvBentley/m
1-2446
FEB 21 1946
Department of State

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.94)
"DIARIO POPULAR.
January 23/46.
D/ARIO POOULAR
1-23.46
El Imperialismo Nipón Controlat
sus Agentes, el Movimiento Si
Impedía todas las huelgas diciendo
que eran provocadas por agitadores
EXIGIA DIREOTIVAS ADICTAS AL EMPERADOR
RESURGE LA ORGANIZACION OBRERA LIBRE
POR V. RIBAKOV
la cifra señalada es más que mo.
desta. La asociación más impor-
Moscu, enero de 1946. —(Servicio
tante es la federación general de
de cable, especial para DIARIO
obreros del transporte. que cmen-
POPULAR).
ta (on 60.000 afiliados, que reúne
Los sindicatos verdaderamente li
preferentemente a los obreros del
bres están lamados a desempeñar
transporte municipal de Tokio, O-
un papel importantisimo en la de
saka. Kove y Nagoya. La federa-
mocratización del Japón. Al con-
ción del transporte es una organi-
tribair al renacimiento político. e
zación reaccionaria de poca im-
conómico y cultural del pais, csos
portancia. fundada en 1945 por e.
sindicatos podrian dar à los tra-
lementos gubernamentales. Propa-
bajadores nipones un arma de lu-
ga la necesidad de conservador el
cha para mejorar su situación po
poder del emperador y lucha con-
lítica y material.
tra los sindicatos libres.
Como consecuencia de la politica
También la "Asociaclón obrera" es
represiva del gubierno imperial
gubernamental y reaccionaria; se-
que veía en las organizaciones b-
kún ella, persigue el objetivo de
breras librex una amenaza al ré-
"llquidtr" el paro forzomo entre
vimen fascista militar. lor sindi-
los obreros no calificados. Se ha-
atos carecieron siempre de fuer.
llan al frente de esta organización
za. En 1937. por ejemplo. 973 sin-
Kowal y Kano. El primero es pe-
dídatos sólo tenian sé5.000 afilia
rito financiero de varias compa
ex decir. cerca del 7 por 100 de
niax industriales. y en 1943, eta al
obreros y empleados. Después del
calde de Tokio. El segundo es ex.
ataque del Japón contra La China.
gobrenador de Tayama.
en 1837, los sindicatos nipones fur
ron disueltos y una parte conside-
AGENTES PATRONALES
rable de sus dirigenles encarccla-
dos.
Los medios rubernamentales del
Japón se esfuerzan por controlar
CONTROL SINDICAL FASCISTA
el creciente movimiento obrero.
Tratan de impedir la formación
En 1938. el gobierno nipón creò u-
de sindicatos verdade amente i-
sociación fascista, controlada por
bres que puedan convertirse en un
él. según el tipo del "Frente de
baluarte de la auténtica demecra-
Trabajo" nazi. obligando a obre-
cia del pais. El gobícrno y los re-
ros y empleador a afiliarse a la de
presentantes de los mupopelios em
legación industriai patriótica, nom
plean diversos métodos para con-
bre del erganismo mencionadoe. A
seguir sus fines. L.on industrtales
través de ella, la camarilla sober
clausuran empresas y despilen e-
mante fascista hacia propaganda
breros. Las huelgas que estallan
patriética con el fin de forsar a
con este motivo son--sugun ver-
los obreros a trabajar sin protes-
sión oficial. consecucilria de la
tas por el "Gran Japón".
labor de "elementos disolventes"
Después de la capltulación. el go
que dominan en los sindicatos.
blerno japenés se vio obligado lam
Las reivindicaclenes de les obre.
blén a diselver esa erganisación
rem que buscam aumento de sala.
fascieta. Como coneecuencia de
rias para equilibrar la elevacién d
clerta atenmación de la arbitrarie.
los prectes resultado directa de
dad politica, han comeazade à
la especulación—. lamblén sor
constitairse rápidamente sindica-
tribaides a diselventes En métises
tes en Tekle, Koge. Oeaka. Nega-
sbreres. aparecen muy a menade
ya. Kate precese centimáa. El par
prevecaderes de la "Aseciaciém de

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
"DIARIO POPOLAR.
Jamary 83/46.
D/ARIO POOULAR
1-23.46
El Imperialismo Nipón Controla
sus Agentes, el Movimiento
Impedía todas las huelgas diciendo
que eran provocadas por agitadores
EXIGIA DIRECTIVAS ADICTAS AL EMPERADOR
RESURGE LA ORGANIZACION OBRERA LIBRE
POR V. RIBAKOV
la cifra señalada es más que mo.
desta. La asociación más imper-
Moscu, enero de 1946. —(Servicio
tante es la federación general de
de cable, especial para DIARIO
obreros del transporte. que cmen-
POPULAR.
ta (on s0.000 aflllados. que reúne
Los sindicatos verdaderamente li
preferentemente a los obreros del
bres están llamudox a desempeñar
transporte municipal de Tokle, O-
un papel importantisimo en la de
saka. Kove y Nagoya. La federa-
mocratisación del Japón. Al con-
ción del tranaporte es una orgaal-
tribair al renacimiento político. e
zación reaccionaria de poca im-
conómico y cultural del pais, cuos
portancia. fundada en 1945 por e.
sindicaton podrian dar a los tra-
lementos gubernamentales. Propa-
bajadores nipones un arma de lu-
ga la necesidad de conservador el
cha para mejorar su situación po
poder del emperador y lucha con-
lítica y material.
tra los sindicatos libres.
Como consesum ncia de la política
También la "Asociación obrera" es
represiva del gubierno imperial
gubernamental y reaccionaria; se-
que veía en las organizaciones b-
kún ella. persigue el objetivo de
breras librex una amenaza al ré-
"liquidir" el paro forsoso entre
vimen fascista militar. los sindi-
los obreros no calificados. Se ha-
atos (arecieron siempre de fuer.
Ilan al frente de esta organización
za. En 1937, per ejempio. 973 sin-
Kowal y Kano. El primero es pe-
didatos sólo tenian ses.ee afilia
rito financiero de varias compa-
ex decir. cerca del 7 por 100 de
ñias industriales. y en 1943, era al
obreros y empleados. Después del
calde de Tokío. El segundo es ex.
ataque del Japón contra la China.
gobrenador de Toyama.
en 1937, los sindicatos nipones fue
ron disueltos y una parte conside-
AGENTES PATRONALES
rable de sus dirigentes encarreia-
dos.
Los medios rubernamentales del
Japón se exfuerzan por contrelar
CONTROL SINDICAL FASCISTA
el creciente movimiento ebrere.
Tratan de impedir la formacién
En 1938, el gobierno nipón creó u-
de sindicatos verdade amente li-
sociación fascista, controlads por
bres que puedan convertirse en un
él. según el tipo del "Frente de
baluarte de la auténtica demecra-
Trabajo" nazi. obligando a obre-
cla del pais. El gobierno y los re-
ros y empleados a afiliarse a la de
presentantes de los muvopelies em
legación industrial patriótica. nom
plean diversos métodos para con-
bre del erganismo mencionado. A
seguir sus fines. I.os industriales
través de ella. la camarilia gober
clausuran empresas y despklen e-
mante fascista hacia propaganda
breros. Las hueigas que estaflan
patriética con el fin de forzar a
con este motivo mon--gun ver-
los obreros a trabajar sin protes-
sión oficial. conaecuciacia de la
tas por el "Gran Japón".
labor de "elementon disolventes"
Después de la capitulación. el go
que dominan en los sindicatos.
bierno japonés se vio obligado tam
Las reivindicaciones de les obre.
bién a disolver esa organisación
ras que buscan aumento de sala-
fascista. Como consecuencia de
rios para equilibrar la elevacién de
cierta atenuación de la arbitrarie-
los precios--resultado directe de
dad política, han comenzado a
la especulación. también sor
constitairse rápidamente sindica-
tribmidas a disolventes En mite
tes en Tokio, Koge. Oeaka. Noga-
obreros. aparecen mmy a memed
ya. Este preceso contináa. El par
provecadores de la "Asectaciém de
lamento nipén reunido despmés de
Obreres", qur exhortan al deser
la gwerra, se vio ebligado a apro
dem. al saqueo de lo almacrmes
bar una ley concediendo a los o-
etc.
breres japoneses el derecho
graparse en sindicates.
Los elementos obreron cons lested
que se agrupan pariicularmente es
EL MOVIMIENTO ACTUAL
tormo a la erganisacion pregresie
La. la "Liga de la Luseración de
Actualmente existem em el Japés
pueblo", epenon à u polsica 
unes 70 sindicates. con 140 000 a-
fülades. Sim essbargo. es prectse
posible sindicatos de wmeves qu
tener en cmemts que em 1964 ha-
peeden convertirse en irgames
bia em el pais unes 12 milloses de
fectives de Imrha centra las masl
obreres y empleades, de mode que
bras dr les reacrienaries miponed

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
THE NIPPONESE IITEPIALISM, THROUGH ITS AGENTS, WAS
CONTROLLING THE LABOR MOVEMENT
It was preventing all strikes, saying that they were provoked
by agitators.
Directives attached to the Emperor were demanded.
Revival of the free workine oreanization
By V. hibakov
Hoscow, January, l346 (Cahle servicc, especially for Diario
Popular).
The vrally tre synoicates are called upon to play a
st importert tart i the democratization of Japan. In
centriuutin to tc political, eccromic and cultural rebirth
of the country, those syndicates would be able to give the
Japanese werkers a wea on to better their politicaI and
materi al situatich.
Lecause of the repressive pelicy of the imperiaI
tovernment, which sew i the frce working organizations a
tireat to the iascist milltary re ime, the syndicates alvays
lacked strength. in le37, for example, 973 syndicates
only hec es5,00c memrers, that is, about 7 per cent of all
worlkers ard cmployees. After Japan's attack against China
in le37, the Japanese syndicates were dissolved and a
loref part or their leacers were ailed.
Fascist Synuical Control
In 1938 the Japanese Jovernment created a Fascist
association, controllcd by tne overnment, following the lines
of the Nazi 'Lator ront', onl: ing all workers and employees
to join this Patrictic Industrial Delegation, the name of
this organization. in this way, the Fascist governing
touy was iss in patriotic propaganda with the idea of fore-
ine the lat orers to work without protest for tgreat Japant.
After the surrender, the Japanese was &lso obliged to
dissolve that ascist or an:zetion. As a consequence of a
certain attenuation cf the pelitical aroitrariness, syndicates
have rapidly he un to sprig up in Tokio, Kobe, Osake,
and Nagoya. This rowth is contiruin. The Japanese parlia-
ment, w cn met arter tie war, was obli ged to approve a law
grantint the Japanese workers the right to form syndicates.
The Present Movement
There now exists in Japan some 70 syndicates, with about
140,000 members. However, it must be remembered that, in
1944, trere were in the country some 12 million workcrs and
employees, thus making the forementio.:ed figure extremely
modest. The rost important associati n is the General
Federation of Transportation Workers, with about 60,00o workers,
which has its principal strength amone the municipal trans-
portation workers of Tckio, Osaka, Kobe, and Nagoya. The
Transportation

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Transportation Federation is a reactiorary organization
of little importance, founaed in 1945 by elements of the
Government. it propa anoizes the necessity to conserve the
power of the Emperor and strtgrles against the free syndi-
c&tes.
Tie Workin Creanization' is covernmental and reaction-
ary; accordin: to its statements, it pursues the objective
of liquicating' the forced strike amone non-qualified
workcrs. howai and la..o are at the nead of this organization.
The former  a s in l : inancier or severel inoustrial
compan es, and, i.. le43, was mayor of Tokio. The latter
is ex-Governor or Toyama.
The Governin circles of Japan are gathering strength
in o cer to co.trel the rowing working movement. They
are tryin, to prevent the rormation of really rree syndicates
t.at mi ht le co verted i to a  ulwark of the authentic
demoerecy of the country. ie overnment and the representative
of the monopolies are usin varicus methods to achieve their
ends. lhe lndustrialists are closin businesses and dis-
charging workers. he strihes thut occur because of this
are -- accorting to the official version -- caused by the
work or aiscolvin lements! that cominste the syndicates.
The revindicatic s that are seeking salary increases
to meet the rise in orices -- a direct result of speculation -
are also attriruted to the same clements. in workers!
meetis, tnere very recuently appcar agitators from the
Tworkers' Associatio' that preach disorder, the looting
of stores, etc.
The corscientious werkin elements, that are privately
formir. the pro ressive or aniuation, the Leaque for the
Liberation or the reople', tre oppesing to that policy the
task of rormin the  reatest pessinle humber of mass syndi-
cates, that may rc co verted into efrective organizations
to ri nt the maneuvers of the Japanese reactionaries.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
DER
INIIAIIATCL ONLY
File
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: February 20, 1946
SUBJECT:
Meetings with Members of Labor Commission to Japan
PARTICIPANTS:
Members of War Department (Civilian) Labor Commission to
Japan including the Chairman, Dr. Eberling, Mr. W. H.
McPherson and others, and Messrs. Holland, Ross, Swaysee,
Fishburn and Sullivan of ILH
COPIES TO:
ITP - Mr. Wilcox
89
JA
JK
4.504/
ILH - Mr. Mulliken
Mr. Holland
Mr. Ham
5
Four members of the War Department (Civilian) Labor
1
20
Commission to Japan, including the Chairman, Dr. Eberling,
and Mr. W. H. McPherson met with Messrs. Holland, Ross,
4
Swayzee, Fishburn and Sullivan at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
9
February 6 for a discussion of problems relating to
Japanese labor and the projected WFTU Commission visit to
Japan. After a preliminary talk in Mr. Holland's office
the meeting moved over to Mr. Mulliken's office where the
members of the Commission were briefed in respect to
current labor developments in Japan. State Department
opinion in regard to some of the provisions of Japan's
2
new Trade Union Law and other current labor problems was
explained. We were encouraged to learn that the Commission
has now been authorized to include consideration of labor
legislation matters as well as their three original func-
2
-2046
tions of social security, wage and employment stabilization.
Though the labor movement and trade unionism are still not
specifically listed as matters directly concerning them,
it would seem that they must deal somewhat with problems
FTLED
of this nature incidental to their work on labor legis-
lation.
Two

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Two important aids to us may flow from this meeting.
First, the Commission realizes State's interest in this
field, and are informed o our views relating to specific
problems. Second, arrangements have been made so that
we may hope to receive from the Commission a flow of
materials relating to labor developments there.
Mr. Mc Pherson spent most of February 1l in ILH
perusing files of materials dealing with labor develop-
ments in Japan. Copies of ILH memoranda on these
developments were given him for use of the Commission.
Philip B. Sullivan
205.
ILH:PBSullivan:md
2/20/46

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.91)
FEB 26196
96
No.
To the Lsting Umited States Politieal Adviser
to the Supreme Comnender for the Allied Powers,
Zokyo.
The Searetary of State transzits a copy of a memerandm from
894.5C4/2-2
the Aoting Chief of te Division of Intermational Labor, Sesial
and Health Affairs to tihe Crief of the Divialon of Japanese and
Kareen Economic Affairs with respect to the status of Japamese
goverumental plans for handling labor matters. In view of the
conflicting reperts which have been received, the Searetary of
-2646
State requeste the best judgpent of the Acting Political Adviser
on the situation before taking anm' notion through formal champels
to the Supreme Coamender for the Allied Powers.
S
1
Reclosure:
Semorancum dated Jmary: 31, 1946, 
"üizisterial Centrol of Labor Affaire in Japen"
FEr
25 1946
JK:Martin:1me 2-21-46
(Cleared by ILH and JA on
draft of 2-13-46.)

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.88)
so.
To the Asting Politieal Adviser,
Takyo.
The Souretary of state trensuite a eopy of a memsrendum from
the Leting Chief of the Diviaion of Iatermatiemal Laber, Sesial
and Bealth Affairs to the Chief of the Divisiem of Japamese end
Kerean Locsomis Affairs with reepest to the states of Jepanese
govermnental plans for handling labor mattere. In view of the
eeaflieting rsperte shieh have beem ressived, the Searetary of
state requeste the best judgment of the hoting Politieel Adwiser
om the situation before taking ay cotiom through formal chammels
to the Bupreme Conmander for the Allied Pomers.
Enslesures
Hemprendum dated January 31, 1946, on
"Kintsterial Central of Laber Affairs in Japea"
FEB
346
0.05.
JX:Martins1mc 2-13-46
ILM
iwir

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, March 23, 1946
No. 319
SUBJECT:
Suggested Legal Justifications for Labor's Assertion
Of Managerial Powers in Japanese Labor Disputes
4 36
The Hongrable
894.504/3-234€
2
The Secretary of State,
P.3S
Washington.
sfr:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a memorandum prepared
by a member of the staff of this Office, entitled "Suggested Legal
Justifications for Labor's Assertion of Managerial Powers in
Japanese Labor Disputes."
A mumber of recent laber disputes in Japan have been accompanied
by the seisure and exercise of manageriel controls by workers.
While the forms and degrees of control have varied, in most in
stances such actions have been denounced by employers as illegal.
JA
No judicial or police support of employers has yet been noted,
although the Japanese Government on February 1 stated an inten-
tion to prosecute further infringements on "the rights of owmership".
FEC(ERD)
CS/LF
oci
Labor groups and labor sympathizers, especially the Communists,
144
have attacked the February 1 statement of policy on various grounds,
perhaps the most interesting being a defense of the legality of
laborts exercise of managerial powers, which was made by Dr. SU
HIRO Izutaro, a well-known member of the Faculty of Law at Tokyo
Imperial University, in an article appearing in the Mainichi on
February 7 and 8, 1946. The opinions expressed therein (and by
Dr. SUEHIRO personally in a discussion with Mr. Durgin and Mr.
Blakemore of this Office) form the basis of this memorandum.
Admittedly Dr. SUEhIRO's legal theories are controversial,
and it is not the purpose of this memorandum to speculate on
the validity or likelihood of their ultimate acceptance. His
arguments themselves, however, may be regerded as an ingenious
effort to justify a form of trespass, and the publicity afforded
them is evidence both of an intellectual interest in labor prob-
lems and a public concern over matters of legality.
Respectfully yours,
baoowBishop
294 504/2
Max W. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer
Enclosure:

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.94)
eloue:
Memorandun, as stated.
Original end hectograph to Department
Copy to General Headquarters, SCAP
850.4
TLBlakemore: jwb

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to despatch No. 319 dated March 23, 1946, from the
Office of the United States Political,Adviser, Tokyo, Japan.
on the subject "Suggested Legal Justifications for Laborts
Assertion of Managerial Powers in Japanese Labor Disputes".
Suggested Legal Justifications of Labor's Assertion
of Managerial Powers in Japanese Labor Disputes
BACKGROUND:
Among the issues involved in recent labor disturbances in
Japan, that of labor's exercise of managerial controls has fre-
quently appeared. Ten of the one hundred and thirty-nine laber
disputes which ocourred in Jamuary, 1946, resulted in labor's
assumption of some form or degree of control over company or
plant management. The most publicised instances have been the
Hitsubishi Coal dispute in Hokkaido, the Yopiuri-Hochi Hewspaper
dispute in Tokyo, and the Keisei Densha (Keisei Mlectric Rail-
road) dispute in Saitama. The Iomiuri-Hochi difficulty arose
in November over the refusal of employees to accept the manage-
ment of editor-owner SHoRIkI Masutaro. After several weeks of
staff operation, an interim agreement was reached whereky the
management was made subject to the approval of empleyees. In
Hokkaido, a worker's committee has operated the Mitsubishi Miuta
coal mine since Jammary. Oontinued participation in management
was not an issue in the Keisei Densha dispute, but those company
directors whose resignations had been requested by workers, on
the ground of "war guilt", were forced out of office in Jammary.
Apparently disturbed by labor's repeated exercise of mana-
gerial controls and seizure of property, the Ministers of Home
Affaire, Commerce and Industry, Justice, and Welfare, on Febru-
ary 1 made reference to these cases in the following joint state-
ment of the polioy of the Japanese Government:
"While the development and activity of labor
unions is to be hoped for, the Government regrets
to see that cases of violence, coercion, and in-
fringement of the rights of ownership (underscoring
added) have of late taken place in labor disputes.
Such practices should never be resorted to by work-
ers conscious of their responsibility for rebuilding
a new Japan. The Government will be obliged to take
decisive measures respecting such unjust and lawless
actions. The Government earnestly desires that work-
men will exercise full caution lest they should commit
such misconduct."
This declaration aroused considerable criticism from laber
sympathisers, mainly on the ground that employers, through their
refusals to increase plant production in the face of current
business uncertainties, wers engaging in "sit down" strikes,
and that temporary exercises of managerial controls by labor
were acts in the national interest. (Bed Flas, February 5 and 9;
Asahi, February 8: Yomiuri. February 3. All of these papers
consistently follow the Communist "party line".)
A a

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
As a result of such protests, the governmentts poliey was re-
considered at a Cabinet meeting on February 8. Mo agreemant ums
reached, and press comment indicated that a deadlock had arisen
over the question of the legality of laborês use of managerial
powers. Members of the cabinet who were inclined to sympathise
with laborts position were reportedly met with the firm insistanes
of government lawyers that such labor controls over management
are definitely illegal. (Tokyo Shimbun, February 14, 1946.) No
government modification of its policy has been announced as of
the date of this memorandum.
On February 7 and 8 a two article series entitled "The Legality
and Limitations of Laborts Exercise of Managerial Controls" appear
ed in the Hainichi. The suthor, SUEHIRO Isutaro, is one of the
best known legal scholars in Japan. He is a professor and former
Dean of the Law Department of Tokyo Imperial University, and at
present is actively engaged in drafting labor legislation for
the Ministry of Welfare. For more than twenty years his juris-
pradential essays and discussions of current legal problems,
usually written with a liberal point of view, have been widely
publicised in both legal and popular periodicals,
The following description of Dr. SUHIROts theories concern-
ing this particular phase of Japanese labor law is submitted after
a discussion with Dr. SUEHIRO and after a study of the Hainighi
articles referred to above. No opinion is offered of the in-
trinsic value of Dr. SUEHIRO's arguments, which he himself feels
may be somewhat too progressive to be accepted by the present
Cabinet. Rather, this description is made for the following
reasons:
(1) The theoretical basis of this approach to labor problems
indicates that the labor movement in Japan has a certain active
intellectual support.
(2) A significant popular concern over matters of legality
may be reflected in the fact that a newspaper of no especial
leftist leanings (Mainichi) allocates front-page space to a
lengthy, legalistic discussion of this nature.
(3) SUmHIRO:s original and ingenious legal defense of a
form of labor conduct which is particularly difficult to fustify
on conventional grounds may be of interest to appropriats agencies
of the Government.
THE VIEWS OF DR. SUBHIRO IZUTARO ON THE LEGALITY AND LIMITATIONS
OF LABOR*S EXERCISE OF MANAGERIAL CONTROLS
Dr. SUmmImO specifically excludes from his consideration
of the legality of labor's assertion of managerial powers those
non-legal fustifications which usually have been presented by
labor sympathisers. As a lawyer, he wishes to deal with legal-
ities alone, not with equities such as social or economic con-
siderations.
The basic concept of Dr. SUEHIRO's argument is that labor
now possesses a "right of dispute" (sosiken), as a result of the
enactment of the new Labor Union Law (Rodo Kumiai ho). This
right

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
right also will be recognised in the Labor Disputes Arbitration
Law (Rodo Sogi Choteiho), the preliminary draft of which is now
being revised in the special Labor Legislation Committee appeinted
by Prime Minister SHIDEHARA.
Artiele 1 of the Labor Union Law provides:
"The object of the present ast is to raise the
status of workers and thereby contribute to economic
development, through the guarantee of the right of
organisation (Danketsuken) and the protection and
promotion of the right of collective bargaining (Dan-
tai Kooho ken).
"The provisions of Article 35 of the Criminal
Code shall apply to collective bargaining and other
proper (seito) acts (underscoring added) of labor
unions which are performed for the attainment of the
objective of the preceding paragraph."
(NOTE: Article 35 of the Criminal Code provides:
"Acts which are performed in accordance with law
or proper (seito) business shall not be punishable.")
In recognizing collective bargaining, the above article makes
it perfectly clear, says Dr. SUkHIRO, that those legal objections
which formerly were made to the organisation of labor are no longer
valid. Heretofore the contract of employment between each laborer
and his emphoyer was regarded as giving rise to certain rights
and dutiss which would be illegally disturbed through collective
bargaining. Laborers, acting through their unions, now are ex-
pected to bargain collectively. Both labor unions and employers
are given equal "rights of dispute", and in the exercise of
these rights, as in any true bargaining transaction, each party
is fres to use arguments, inducements, and pressures in seeking
to prevail. After a free process of bargaining has occurred.
presumably agreements will be reached and contracts will result.
In past labor struggles, both employers and laborers have
applied a variety of bargaining pressures. Employere have re-
sorted to lockouts, blacklists, have refused to deal with unions.
and have invoked police and judicial assistance. Workers, in
turn, have organized strikes, slow-downs, demonstrations, boy-
cotts, have picketed and committed acts of violence, eto. Re-
contly labor has developed this new method of seizing managerial
controls.
Some of the above-mentioned methods (or weapons of dispute)
are illegal, while others are within the law. Dr. sUmHIRO be-
lieves that labor use of violenoe, blackmail, coercion, and
damage of plant property are clearly and unquestionably illegal.
Acts such as these are crimes under the Criminal Code and are
subject to punishment. The prosecution of individuals committing
such crimes is just and proper. However, such crimes have not
occurred in recent labor disputes involving the exercise of
managerial powers. In implying that they have (see ministerial
statement of February 1), Dr. SUZHIRO claims that the government
is deliberately obscuring issues.
The teot

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
The test of legality of a weapon of labor used in collee-
tive bargaining is stated in Paragraph 2 of Artiole 1 of the
Labor Union Law (quoted above). Acts which are "proper" mmst
be accepted as logal. This standard of legality is vague, end
in csrtain situations there will be differences of opinion. It
would seem evident that acts which constitute crimes are im-
proper. On the other hand, those which are specifically pro-
vided for in labor laws, certainly must be in the "proper"
category. Labor's right to strike, and its right to negotiate
(Article 10 of Labor Union Law) are examples of "proper. hence
legitimate acts.
How does a temporary assertion of managerial controls by
labor meet the above standard of legality? Dr. SUmhIRO sees
at least two possible arguments in favor of the acceptance
of such an action as proper, and thus legal. The most cogent
is an analogy. Under present law, labor is given the right to
strike-- powerful weapon which can work great damage upon
employers. Yet, damaging though this may be, it is perfectly
"proper". Therefore, is it not logical to regard as equally
acceptable a much weaker weapon (from the standpoint of labor)
-one which brings much less pressure to bear upon the employer.
namely the temporary assumption of managerial controls?
Another possible support of the legality of labors use of
managerial powers might be found in the provisions of Articles
Nos. 691-702 of the Civil Code, which concern "business manage
mont"(Jim Kanri).
(MOTE: "Business management" is a relationship kmown to Roman
Law as Negotiorium Gestio. It arises when one person, vithout
previous authority, and without a legal duty so to do, mamages
the affairs of another person. A common illustration is the
assumption of control over the property of a friend during his
absence. Upon the creation of the relationship, the person
assuming managerial powers is charged with various duties, such
as using good care, "acting in accordance with the wishes of
the principal if he kmows or is able to conjecture them" and
continuing his management until such time as the principal is
in a position to act for himself.
In such a situation, the "consent" of the principal to
this safeguard of his interests is presumed at law. To apply
this theory of business management to labor's exercise of
managerial powers in cases where employers have vigorously and
specifically protested labor controls would appear to be im-
proper and unwarranted.)
Both of these justifications of the "propriety" of labor's
managerial acts can be countered by arguments based on the con-
ventional theories of property rights. The accepted concept is
that owmership confers unlimited powers of management, and that
infringements of non-owners, such as laborers, is illegal.
Thus, it appears that acts which could be justified as
proper in one sphere of law might be regarded as improper upon
the application of the concepts of another. How should the
conflict in interpretations be settled?
Dro

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
5
Dr. sUkhIno suggests that the existing property conoepts.
rather than the new laber legislation, are unrealistic and
should be modified. As a practical matter, he says, aren't
there three factors in modern business-capital, labor, and
management! Although the present corporation law may still re»
gard as supreme the control of owners over management, actually
labor unions (backed by the Labor Union Law) are now bargaiming
with owners on an equal footing. Both may legitimately mmke
demands concerning the conduct of business. In a going con-
cern, therefore, the factor of management is distinct from
ownership. It lies somewhere in between ownership and laber
and is responsive to pressures from both.
fore
Therd, in event of a conflict of standards of propriety.
those indicated in the new labor legislation ought to prevail
over those of older fields of law, which are based on outmoded
concepts of business operations. Dr. Suehiro concludes that
temporary acts of management by workers, if unaccompanied by
conduct otherwise of a criminal nature, should be regarded as
lawful and should not be subject to punishment.
Obviously the distinction between temporary and permanent
assertions of managerial control is vital in Dr. SUBHIROºs
analysis. While temporary controls, coming as an incident in
a labor dispute and used by labor simply as another weapon,
may be justified, Dr. SUEHIRO admits that any permanent parti-
cipation of labor in management must be with the consent of
owmers. In certain cases the dividing line between permanent
and temporary may be hard to draw, although usually it is clear.
Whenever labor finds it necessary to engage in financial trans-
actions on behalf of the plant or company or to contract for
services or supplies, it is getting into the realm of permanent
management. As a practical matter, temporary management usually
would consist of continuing plant operations with existing
stocks of raw materials.
Labor aspirations for a share in management are perfectly
legitimate, but any enduring rights of this nature must come
from agreements with employers. Already in one company, Hitachi.
owners have agreed to allow a union a certain voice in managerial
matters. However, since under existing corporation law manage
ment is made an exclusive right of ownership, this participation
of unions in management may be difficult to arrange. A revision
of corporation law to facilitate labor contracts may prove de-
sirable.
Thomes L. Blakemore
850.4
TLBlakemore: jwb

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix
The Legality and the Limitations of Labor's
Exercise of Management Controls
by SUEHIRO Isutaro
(Mainichi Shimbun, February 7, 8. 1946)
As much discussion as has been aroused by the recent actions
of labor in asserting controls over the management of businesses,
a sound analysis of the legal position of these acts has not yet
appeared. The recent declaration of four Government ministers
(to the effect that illegal acts of strikers would be punished)
not only obscured the issues, but fostered public hostility to
labor through its misrepresentations. Actually the government's
denunciation of violence, coercion and the damage to property
was a "red herring". Of course such actions are illegal. They
were not present at all in the recent labor disputes which led
to laborss asmumption of controls over management.
At the outset, a clear distinction must be made between
laborts right of dispute (Sogiken) and the various means and
methods used by labor in the implementation of that right. A
further difference mmst be recognised between acts of control
over the management of a plant or industry, which result imed-
dentally or temporarily from labor's exercise of its right of
dispute, and the right of participation in management which labor
hopes (ultimately) to gain through collective bargaining. Failure
to grasp these distinctions has lead to many unfortunate mis-
understandings between labor and owners.
Sometimes the opinion is voiced that labor has no right of
dispute at all. This opinion applies to labor disputes the prin-
ciples of private law which pertain to contracts between indivi-
duals. A contract of employment--so the argument goes-imposed
upon the laborer (as a party to the contract), certain obliga-
tions. Any evasion of these duties, through collective bargain-
ing, is illegal.
If such a concept of law were applied, labor again would
be completely subject to the arbitrary and unilateral acts of
employers. But it is perfectly clear that the analogy to private
contracts is bad. Both the Labor Dispute's Negotiation Law
(Rodo Sogi Choteiho) and the Labor Union Law (Bodo Kumiai ho)
are predicated on the right of labor to dispute. With the de-
velopment of labor unions, it is safe to predict that decisions
in the form of labor contracts, based on collective bargaining
(Shudanteki Torihiki) will replace the unilaterial decisions of
employers. In collective bargaining naturally points of view
vary, and disputes arise. In capitalist countries, no more is
done than to put pressure on both parties to negotiate and
settle disputes which are harmful to the public interest. The
settlement must be by the free will of both sides. Therefore,
it is clearly

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
2
it is clearly erreneous to regard the right of dispute had by a
workman as being contrary to his duties under a labor agreement.
Everyone must see this. It logically followe that empleyers
also have rights of dispute: these mmst be recoghised.
In any dispute, each side seeks to persuade or force the
other to yield. Both laborers and employers have used a variety
of methods in the past, and new techniques can be expected. 
ployers have used the weapons of lockout, refusal to deal with
organizations, blacklist, police power, and judicial power.
Laborers have used general strikes (Domei Hisyo),amlowdoums
(Taigyo), demonstrations, boycott, picketing, acts of violence,
stc. The latest method is exercise of control over the manage
mont of plants.
It is difficult to lay down any single rule which indicates
which acts or methods are legal and which are illegal. Artiole 1,
Paragraph 2 of the Labor Union Law, however, is an important in-
dicator. It provides that labor unions may make "proper acts",
in accord with the spirit of Paragraph 1 (the basic statement
of objective of the law). Such "proper acts" are not subject
to punishment.
Opinions naturally will vary as to the propriety of acts.
Certain categories--such as acts of violence, property theft.
destruction, and intimidation  are clearly illegal and should be
punished as crimes. On the other hand, a general strike which
interferes with the operation of a factory and likewise damages
the owner, is not a crime. Nor is a demand on the part of labor
representatives to confer with company officials, which is re-
cognized under article 10 of the labor union law as a valid
exercise of the power of negotiation. There is no such crime
as that of "forcing an interview".
The issue of the legality or illegality of labor's exer-
cise of managerial powers is completely different from that of
the legality or illegality of acts which are incidental to the
exercise of managerial controls. Examples of illegal means of
obtaining management control would be the locking out of company
officials, or the disposition of company property. Quite right-
ly, acts of this nature are crimes, and could be prosecuted as
false arrest, embezzlement, or theft.
However, such acts did not occur in the recent Yomiuri
Press and Keisei Electric Railroad disputes. Throughout the
difficulty, good order was preserved and advice was taken from
managers as to things which had to be done. No acts occurred
which can be regarded as illegal. In the Yomiuri incident. the
leader of the employees was given notice of dismissal, but con-
tinued to come to work. The president of the company then sought
to bring charges of trespass under Article 130 of the Criminal
Code which penalizes an act of unlawful entrance and refusal to
leave.
This act of an employer in attempting to prevent labor from
organising was in direct violation of the spirit of Paragraph 2
of Article 1 of the Labor Law. Therefore, the employee's ignoring
of the attempt at dismissal was quite proper.
In contrast

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
3
In contrast to this rolatively simple solution of the legal-
ity of acts committed incidentally in the assertion of managerial
powers, the legality of the control over management itself is
more difficult. Legal scholars may disagres, but there are two
or three theories which can be advanced to uphold the legality.
Non-legal arguments, such as are now heard to the effect that
employers are sabotaging the national effort through inaction
and that national interests require positive steps to restore
prodgction, are not considered here.
The most cogent argument in support of the legality of
labor's control over management is this. Harmful though a strike
is to national and public interests, it nevertheless is a legal-
ly recognized weapon of labor. Assertion of managerial powers
are far less injurious than strikes, and in public utilities
are preferable. If the stronger solution is legal, the lesser
should be acknowledged as legal also.
Another theory is that labor's assertion of management
powers during a dispute is fustified as an assumption of business
custody under the provision of Article 694 of the Civil Code.
Both of these theories run headlong into conventional and
deep-seated concepts of property rights, and definition of in-
fringement. The conventional view is that the owner of pmoperty
has unqualified powers of management, which are not affected by
labor disputes. Therefore, labor's exercise of managerial con-
trols constitutes an infringement. Labor must not lay a finger
on property without the consent of the owner.
Modern scholars are tending to take a different view of the
right of management, feeling that the old conceptions of property
are not in trend with the times. As a practical matter, the
capitalist now merely contributes ownership to the business:
this is combined with labor in general, and with management to
result in operations. Although commercial law still recognizes
the supreme power of a stockholder's assembly over management,
labor law now casts doubt on this authority. Under the new
labor law, capital and labor ere on an •qual footing. Both
have a right to engage in disputes. Management is caught be-
tween two fires.
Labor now uses the temporary control over management as a
method of prevailing in disputes. On the basis of the labor
law, the owmers: assertion of claims of property infringement,
and their appeals to government authorities are most inequitable.
Labor is doing no more than making use of an additional weapon
in pressing its legitimate right of dispute and as such, the
acts are "proper" within the meaning of Paragraph 2 of Article
1 of the Labor Union Law. They are covered by Article 35 of the
Criminal Code (which forbids punishaent for lawful acts).
The government would make a grave mistake in applying for-
mer concepts of private law to the present situations. But also
labor must use great care not to use improper measures in press-
ing claims.
▲ permanent

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.95)
4
A permanent participation of labor in management, er a
permanent exercise of rights of management is quite another
matter. The scope of labor's rights of participatien in
management, even if secured through labor contract, is excsed-
ingly ciroumscribed under existing law. Managerial powers
stem from stockholder's assemblies, and to provide for laber
participation a revision of Company law would be necessary.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
2108
ACT
ONF
AIRGRAM
ESP
2S
GA
JK
FROM
Tokve
G
Dateda
pril 22, 1946
ACTION-ESP
INFO:
Rec as May 7, 1946
894.504/4-2246
DC/R
FE
11:12 a.m.
DC/T2
ITP
Secretary of State.
FC
Wanhington. Do C.
Lo30. 4pr11 22. 1946
Referonce Departments airmail inatmuotien No. 96.
February 26. 1946, enclosing a memorandum from the Acting
Chiof of the Division of Intornational Laber, Social and
Hcalth Affaire to tho Chief of the Divislon of Japenese
end Korean Éconemic Affairs on the onbjast e? Mnisterial
Contrel of Laber Affaire in Japeno.
Reliable inforration indicates that n Labor Ministry
will be formed in tun course, particularly now that Soctalists
have es result of electien acqulred a stratogic political
pesitien. Idea of trensfer of labor functions of Welfare
Kanistry to Home Miniotry vao ariginally proposcd by latter.
Proposal wae disappraved by SCa, end since purge directive
of January 4. Homo Ministry. which was heavily effccted.
has not becn in vesition to push the matter.
APCHESON
850.4
JDEdwardas jub
0

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
fele
TO
ILH - Mr. Ham
DATE:
July 17, 1946
FROM
ILH - Philip B. Sullivan
SCAP's Report on Implementation of SWNCC 92, "Treatment
SUBJECT:
of Japanese Workers' Organizations".
The attached SCAP report, (a copy of which was brought
from Japan by W. H. McPherson) was obtained by me through
the Far Eastern Commission, which recently received per-
8
mission from the War Department to circulate it to the
6
member nations of the Commission.
4
The report itself consists of a detailed summarization
504/7-1746
of the steps taken by SCAP to implement the provisions of
SWNCC 92, "Treatment of Japanese Workers' Organizations".
A study of the document indicates that a high degree of
implementation has been achieved, a record warranting a
statement made by Mr. McPherson that the SWNCC labor
directive has been carried out more completely than any
of the others of a long-range reform nature.
In view of this it is interesting that the sharpest
exchanges between the American and Soviet representatives
on the Allied Council in Tokyo have developed over a labor
program submitted by the latter. I have suggested to JA,
JK and ADO that publication of a report similar to the
attached portraying the achievements in this field would
be a more conclusive answer to the Soviet statements than
CS/ V
openly stating (as we have done) that the Soviet action
is "propaganda". Officers of all three of the above
Divisions believe this a good idea, but JK and JA (out
of bitter experience) hesitate to make any suggestions
to SCAP. I hope to have an opportunity to suggest the
same informally to my contacts in General Hilldring's
office. At the moment it would appear that the labor
issue bids fair to become the chief bone of contention
between Soviet Russia and our Government in the gener
area of the administration of Japan. Communist Inflf
ence in the trade unions, present and potential, is o
course an underlying issue here, hence the probl would
appear to be one of lasting significance.
6
7
Enclosure:
SCAP Report C4-009/4, July 10, 1946.
P.P.S.
ILH:PBSullivan:md
3
7

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.87)
TC
LUROPEAN
DIVISION OF
ACPION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
JELEGRAPH BRANCH
JUL 31 1946
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Actn: EUt
二五
Int0:
Office of
Moscow
3
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
J
Dated July 30, 1946
JA
FE
DC/L
PLAIN
Rec'd 5: 30 p.m., 30th
ITP
Departmer: of State
OF3
7185
Control 959
∴-0
.-B
BA/M
SPCSTATE
SPA
jvr
894.504/7-3046
JOD
3PD
3033, Thirtieth.
OY
July 37 press published NY despatch citing NY POST
and CHicAGo SUN in riticism of Atcheson's attitude
PI
toward Soviet proposals for Japonese labor legislation.
L
SUN was uo ed demanding removal of Atoheson for anti-
X1/R
3oviet attilude
S  Dent 3O33; repeated SOAPPOLAD Tokyo 63.
DURBRCW
SHL:JREO
PLAIN
BiN
981-0000
NE
LR
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
JNITED :
1ES
Tulyo
No. 545
D/R
SUBJECT: Functions and Responsibilities of Japanese Police in
Labor Disputes.
PBS
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
894.504/8-646
1
five copies of a memorandum dated July 15, 1946 prepared by the
Labor Division, Economic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, and addressed to Military
Government Labor Officers. This memorandum encloses copies of in-
structions that have been issued since last November by the Japanese
Home Ministry to Prefectural Governors on the subject of prevention
and control of "illegal actions accompanying labor disputes".
The most recent instruction, dated June 22, 1946, reflects in-
structions from General Headquarters, SCAP, to the Home Ministry and
"earnestly requests" local Metropolitan Police Boards and Prefectural
Governors to "pay special attention to dealing wdth the attitude of
the policemen toward labor disputes and the movements of laborers".
1/ Memorandum, "Instructions of Home
CS/V
Ministry Concerning Functions of
Police in Labor Disputes," dated
15 July 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department.
850.4
JWBurnett/blc
19/46U 08
C ANC
894.504/8-646
0/00
AUG 2: 1946
LDH
FILLD
WuuB

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POVERS
Economic and Scientific Section
15 July 1946
MELORANDUM:
FOR
: Lilitery Government Labor Officers
SUBJECT
: Instructions of Hone Ministry Concerning Functions of Police
in Labor Disputes
1. Attached herewith are instructions issued by the Home Ministry to
Prefectural Governors covering the subject of police functions and responsi-
bilities vith regerd to labor disputes.
2. For your informetion.
THEODORE COHE
Chief, Labor Division
3 Inclosures
1 - Cpy of Translation; No. "Ko" 140,
issued from the Police Affrirs
Sect of the Police Bureau, Hone
Ministry, dtd 6 Nov 45, subj; "Con-
trol of the illegel action, accon-
penied vith mess movenents."
2 - Cpy of Trenslation, dtd 8 Feb 46,
subj: "Prevention & Control of
Illegal Actions Accompanying Labor
Disputes."
3 - Cpy of Trenslation, dtd 22 Jun 45,
subj: "Paying Special Cere to the
Policemen's Attitude Toverd Labor
Disputes and the love ent of
Laborers."

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
.
COPY OF TRANSLATION
No. "KO" 140, issued from the Police Affairs Section of the Police Bureau,
Home Ministry.
November 6th 1945.
From : Director of the Police Bureau of the Home Ministry.
20
All the Prefectural Governors.
Subject: Control of the illegal action, accompanied with the mass
movements.
Although, perhaps, you might heve been already informed of the
above-mentioned subject by the joint announcement of the Home and the
Justice Ministries through the newspapers, the Government has decided,
in the recent cabinet council, the control policy with "re Control con-
cerning the nass movements", which is attached hereto.
By this step, however, we do not eim, as rumored, at oppressing
the freedom of speech, meeting, and associations, or legal, social and
politicel movements, and opposing unlewful restrictions upon them or
enacting new control measures about them. We merely tried to clear up
cur intention that in case of the riotous actions, such as agitetion,
violence or bloodshed caused by the mass moverents, ve resolutely enforce
control by putting the rules now in existence in action. You must, there-
fore, pay regard to the above circumstances, and must be careful to give
justice end order to the mess movements, and msintein the public welfare,
under the egiteted conditions, resulted from the change of the social
situation.
I may add that in the actual control and guidance, pleese keep
in mind the folloving items:
I.
. a. 1. In the items of the second measures of the srticles decided
at the cabinct council, it is stated, "Dispatching considereble number of
police officers for the inspection of the situetion". By this it is
mernt to st tion proner number of police officers in order to inspect, ec-
cording to the circunstances, lest there should be eny illegel action, in-
stced of dispetching many police officers to the plece beforehand in order
to prectise ettendance or inspection for the speech control as ever, or to
propare ageinst the demonstration. Therefore, cautious considerstion must
be given in erranging the police officials lost it should subjugete the
freedon of spečch.
b. 1. By "Prevent beforchand occurrence of bad effairs", is meant
to prepare beforehend ageinst the meeting and the mass movenent lest they
should outstep ths bounds of the legel action.
-1-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
..- Joby of translation, deted 5 Novenber 1945, subject: "Control of the il-
legel ection, acconpenied vith the mess movements," contd.
c. 2. Tre cleuse, "Proper leading to and guidance of a responsible
person end so forth," hss no neening of interference or oppression beforo
tho fact. Its neaning is that, hen the mess moveuent gets beyond tho
bounds and acts illegslly, police officiels will cxplsin on the spot to
a responsible person end make hin consent not to act illeg lly, end thus
neko the rovencnt fair end orderly.
d. 3. The clause, "to cffect conpleteness of lesding" meens thet,
s ccrryin dangerous vce pons csuse an illegal act, police officials vill
observe end leed then carefully vhen it is clean thrt they corry thesc
verpons on the spot of sseibiege and mess rovenent; rnd docs not mean to
control them to the tip of fleg es before.
c. 4. The cleuse, "If breek into ons's residencc," is misunder-
stood to ov rlook cven n ill gl ct sccompanying ress moverent es e ro-
sult of -bolish: nt or suspension of Pesce Pres rving Lev and the others
cone rning th. control of sociel move ent; hovever, this cleuse docs not
on to ov rlook cuch -cts, but it mekes  policy clcor to dispose of such
ct  intrusion into onc's residence or deiegins utensils pronptly end
f. 5. Conccrning th. control of Chinese laborers under contrect,
(Chines prisoners shall b. dealt vith in the su.c mennar ss Allied Forces)
in cose c crim nal off nse hos occurred, the police officicls cnd men shall
inedirtely est-blish con uvicetien vith the conccrned of Allied Forccs end
shell ct not to com it on crror to teke proupt end impertial mersures based
upon the principle vhich has been directed formerly.
II. If moss nove unt cous beyond bounds ond  ets illegelly, it must be
regorded not to pist-ke, consulting "Reference to Controlling Asscr blego
cnd Less Novent."
-2-

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.96)
.
COPY OF TRANSLATION
8 February 1946
FROM : Dircctor of Police Bureeu of Homc Linistry.
TO : Respective Governors of Province, Municipalities, end Prefecturcs.
: Prevention and Control of Illegal Actions Accompanying Labor
Disputcs.
Although thru the dcclarstion made by the joint signatures under
Hone, Justice, Comrerce end Industry, Welfare Ministers (dated 2 February
1946) the plen for this control has been clarified and the present measure
docs not int nd to add linitation unjustly toward labor disputes, oppress,
or deciic upon a new pl-n of control, but in view of the fact, that the
recent trend of labor disputes have been so aggravated, and present situa-
tion in part is such that there is developnent of undesirsble illcgal ac-
tion, s viol:ne., intimid tion, infringenent of right of ovmership thet
this ne sure hopes to clerify with the vin of cnforcing provision of lews
nd r  rulatiens hon ther: is outbresk of unjust cnd unlawful conducts ec-
comparying such labor disputes.
In th. least, for turning tovard cocrcive dircction as to accon-
lish th purpose of i-tor disputes hook or by crock, or running towerd
destructiv cxtrenity these re not only dongcrous for derangenent of peace
i induntries, but since it is considured es to be impedient toward healthy
nd soed grouth of lsbor rovemunts thet when there is eny development of
such illegel ctions pust be prevented or pointed out sfter cercful and
lose considerstion. Thereby, it is hoped to heve respective notified
uthoritics to contribute tovard cchieve ant and cctivitics of sound and
hormonious, inpartiel and orderly disuutes. It is -lso requested thet in
i sling vith such suidonce nd prevention thet it vill be done sfter con-
iderotion of folloving points, and no mist-ke or over-doing be made.
ACCOUIT
1. The control of the present mersure in desling vith labor disputes
 not intended to control or chcck nctivitics of l-ber disputes itsclf,
t it purports to carry on labor disout s thich are sound and orderly.
bs objuct is to check illegel cctions hich develop ccceapanying lebor
sputes. In crse there ore unlauful ects uhich cre in ensely hormful for
crcc erd velfore of the socicty, es violencs, purder, injury, lerceny,
robbery, demoges and loss sust-in d upon goods (-pparotus, furnitures,
tc.) cnd buildings, or in crse there is outbreck of unjust cri.unal ects,
these must be controlled in sccord-nce ith stipulsted pr vision of lavs
nd reguletions.
-3-

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
py of transletion, dated 8 Februery 1946, subject: "Prevention and Control
of Illegel Actions Acconpenying Labor Disputes," contd.
Note: The situstion when illegel acts or innensely unjustified crine
developed neans that it must dctcrnine whether it will disrupt the
order of dispute or not by sufficient consideration of circun-
stences leeding to end of disputes, end just c mere and slight of-
fense, for cxanplc, a brcakage of a sheet of windon gless - - taking
it up of it of the case just by evidence of it act does not always
be th preservetion of crder of disputes. Rather by controlling it
act vill bring up the unnecessary friction. Thereupon, in deeling
vith such centrol it ncens it must closcly delibcrate upon degrees
of offenses (hcther it is slight, scrious, or not), time and other
mcttcrs.
2. In casc of intiridation: Through the Labor Union Law, Articlc I,
the right of coll ctive bargeining of laborers has been recognized and
cuarantced. As ? result it connot bo measured with conception of "threat"
's hitherto considorcd. By Clauso II of the samo Article its illegality
s been grertly checked, end thereby for proper and definite acts nust
toke into consideration of various objective conditions lesding to it for
judgent, and ultinate decision must be left for the judgnent of the Court.
It, thurefore, must pay special ttention in handling end judgnent in deal-
ing ith this case.
3. Denending upon the situ-tion, if there is denger of outbreek of
illegl ctions in lator disoutes, nd if there is feer of monecing the
sof ty of the sunerel public, the e rgency police forces should be deployed
to th scene for  -intin-nce of order. But in this cosc, the duty of the
dispotched olice forc: is gurrding the possibl. occurrcnce of illegal ac-
ticns, and of course, it has no rel tion ith disputes itsclf. Therefore,
in judging vhether there is n cessity or not of disp tching must fully con-
sider of the situ-tion, nd in cse of it dispstch, it must cxercise every
prec-ution to void hompering the frecdon of disoutcs. This cim should be
thoroughly convinccd both to the laborer end  ployer so ns to neintein full
understending.
4. Cther then c-ses cccor ponyins illeaal -ctions of three prescribed
peints, until there is se instruction from the competent ministry, it
is advised not to becoe ooject of issue for centrol of Lebor's perticipe-
tion in or control of .onecenent.
5. The dir ction rust be received efter close coordination vith the
public procur-tor's cut ority in case there is n ccesity of judicicl dis-
position in re -rd to l-bor disputes.
6. As ru rd to the control of ss- overonts hich devulops accom-
ponying th disputes, it must be hendled by brsing it on "Re. The Control
-4-

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
Gay of trensletion, deted 8 February 1946, subject: "Provontion and Control
F Illegal Actions Acconpanying Labor Disputes," contd.
of Illegel Acts Acconpanying Eass-noverent" (Notification issuod by the
Director of the Policc Burcau of Hone Office, K0-No. 140, deted 2nd
November 1945).
7. Regarding labor disputes, it is directed to try to prevent such
illegel ections in then by operating fully the Labor Conmittee which is to
be sut up soon according to the Labor Union Lew with such purposes as the
prevontion, thc mcdirtion cr the arbitretion of labor disputes.
8. Cencerning the cutbreek of illcgel ecticns in lebor disputes, in
vic of not s fcw facts thet the enployers lacked understending end coopera-
tion, a proper warning should be given to the employers.
-5-

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY OF TRANSLATION
22 June 1946
FROM : Dircctor of Policc Bureau of the Hone Ministry.
TO
: Superintcndent General of Netropoliten Police Board end
Prefectural Governors.
SUEJECT:
Paying Special Care to the Policenen's Attitude Toverd Labor
Disputes and the Lovement of Leborers.
In accordance vith today's instructions fron GHQ, SCAP: ve
carnestly request you to pay special cttention to desling with the attitude
of the policenen tovard labor disputes and the novements of Iaborers that
they nay not ke a bit of mistake hereafter, and to drive hone the itens
as set forth belo: to your policeren.
1. With regard to the labor disputes, you must onsure absolute
obedience to the purport of thc nomorandum of Director of Police Bureau,
"Subject: the Control and Provertion of the Lawless Actions ettendent on
the Laber disputes," No. 10, Hone Ministry, dated Fcb. 8, 1946, end pey
speciel care to the folloving items.
1) You rust never inturfere in the leber disputes itself.
2) In connectien ith th. l-bor troubles, if there is a fear of
the occurrence of the unlruful actions under certain circunstences, (those
circunstances include the riotous b havior vuntured on the part of the
Irborers s vell as the cnses here the corpany nd other associations,
organizing the song of terrorists or self-defending band, appeel to force
or other provecativ: ctions.) or  d-nger to disturb public velfore, you
must dispatch policerun -s th occasion de ends, and reke them mrintrin
order.
Especislly in these coses, it is ne dless to say that their
duty consists tholly in the prevention of unlowful sctions ttendant on
the laber disputes nd it hos ne relation vith the dis ut's itsclf, so,
s to hether the disp tch is unavoid-ble or not, you nust toke the cirour-
stances fully into consideration, cnd, in case of the dispatch, take special
ttention so as net to copress the freeden of the troutles for this reeson,
and, furthermore, tc  oke ell concerned undurstand the purport completcly.
3) In case of the dis utes the dispatched policunen must take
care not only to ssu:  feir ttitude oll the ti  to ard both partics
conccrned, end to be dreim into the vortex of the troubles et rondon, but
Iso not to vake th.  atter orse bec use of too strict control of triflo
crines.
-6-

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.96)
oy of trenslation, deted 22 June 1946, subject: "Peying Speciel Caro to
the Policemen's Attitude Toverd Labor Disputes and the Moveront of
Laborcrs," contd.
2. Thc Trade Union Lew (21/12/1945 - Lew Numbcr 51) guarantecs the
right of Japenesc peoplc to organize or join trade unions freely. In order
to essure these rights, therefore, police should never do such ection as to
nterfere in any vay vith labor union activities except where necessary to
uell public disorder, physical violcnce and other crincs that have occurred
or ere occurring.
3. The practice of regular police attondance et lebor union neetings
or collective barg-ining confcrences vill be discontinued.
4. Police will att nd labor union mictings or collcctive bargaining
conferenccs only hen
1) Such nectings are held in & public place and the number in-
volvd is so lrrge as to ruquire police to mint in public order. In such
coses, the nuiber of police vill be held tc a mininun and in no casc will
they be so nu erous rs to give a thrcetening epperrance.
2) Diserder, physicel violence or ether specific crimes are in-
∵lvod.
5. Police vill not collcct inforrotion on labor union business end
will not interrogete 1-bor union officiels or members except in connection
vith s  cific crires or contr-ventions of law. The function of gathering
infor  tion vith respcct to l-bor unions or lrbor disputes is not e police
Punction but r ther  function ci the Welfare Ministry.
6. Ey the SCAP emorondum ef 4/10/1945, subject: "Removel of
E strictions on politic-, Civil, and Religious Lib:rtics," survcillance,
supcrvision over, or rustriction of political, civil ond religious
liberties on the pert of the individu-ls or groups of persons are pro-
ibited. Hence, it is needless to soy that frecder: of ction, thought,
peech, asse bly, ond crganization of essocistions vhich ere guaronteed by
ris Meror nau: should not be wetched over or threstened, provided thet no
rines cre committed vhile uxercising such right. Conscqu ntly, action
 ntrory to parogr-ph 2, 3, 4, nd 5 violates the intention of the SCAP
cotber 4th Henerondun, ond the Trode Union Lar, nd therefere you must be
riously careful to follc: these instructions cccur-tely.
-7-

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.90)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIBERRTMENT OF STATE
3
FOR JAPAN
PECEINED
NOV7
STAT
INTERNASOCTAL
1946 N0V1 9 56
AND HEAL DIAFFAIRS-ILH
Unrestricted
Tokyo, october 22, 1946
D9K
No. 663
DC/M
HCH
Cwer
 SULECT:
The Labor Relations Adjustment Law, passed by
Japanese Diet, Leptember 20, 1946.
894.504/10-2246
The United States Political adviser has the honor to
transmit herewith copies of the Inglish translation of
"The Labor Reletions Adjustment Lav," passed by the Japan-
ese Diet on september 20, 1946.
Chapter I outlines general principles. Chapters II,
III, and Iv provide for the machinery to deal with con-
15
Chapter V ceals with the restrictions or prohibition
of certain scts of dispute ane lays down the important
prineiple that "no act whicn hamners or cr uses the stoppage
oLabn. nd
or maintenance o normal oneration of safety accommodations
at factoriee, mines or other place: of employment shall be
3Wan.Iend
resorted to is an act or disputc." It also disallows an
act of diep te in public welftre works until a request for
mediation h  been lodged anc thirty days heve elapsed from
10
employees are prohibited from resorting to acts of dispute.
This law marks a significant step forward in Japan's
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOHLIGN
NOV - 4 1946
or legislation, and while not perfect, is believed to be
of the mere important legislative accomplishments of
Japtnesc Government under the Occupation.
de
CS/V
E
TATE
 A
Endlosure:
ENT OF STATE
4 copies "Labor Relations Acjustment
1946
Law"
Original and Hectograph to Department
850.4
GhAbbey: cbk
mus

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation
LABOR RELATIONS ADJUSTVENT LAW
Passed by the
Japanese Diet, 20 September 1946
GHQ SCAP
ECONOMIC & SCIENTIFIC SECTION
Labor Division

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
THE LABOR RELATIONS ADJUSTMENT LAW
Passed by the Japanese Diet 20 September 1946
CHAPTER I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Art. 1. The aim of this Law shall be, in conjunction with the Trade Union
Law, to promote a fair adjustment of labor relations and to prevent or settle
labor disputes end thereby to contribute to the maintenence of industrial peace
and to economic development.
Art. 2. The parties concerned with labor relations shall make special
endeavors mutually to promote proper and feir lahor relations, and fix by Trade
Agreement metters relating to the establishment as well as menegement of regular
agencies to adjust differences constently, end in the event thet lsbor disputes
occur, to endeavor to settle them autonomously in ell sincerity.
Art. 3. The government shell assist the parties concerned with 1.bor re-
lations to find a settlement of the differences of their claims concerning labor
relations in order thereby to prevent to the utmost the occurrence of the acts
of dispute.
Art. 4. Nothing in this law shall be construed either to prevent the
parties from determining for themselves their 1shor relations or from adjusting
the differences of their cleims concerning lebor relntions by direct negotia-
tions or collective bergeining or to relieve the parties concerned with lebor
relations of their responsibility for making such endeevors.
Art. 5. In effecting any edjustment under this present law, the parties
and the Labor Reletions Committee end other organs concerned should as fer es
possible utilize evory appropriate convenience to expedite the disposal of the
cse.
Art. 6. In this lew, labor dispute shell meen & disegreement of claims
arising between the perties concerned with labor reletions regarding lebor re-
letions resulting in either conditions with the occurrence of acts of dispute
or conditions with the denger of their occurrence.
Art. 7. In this lew, ect of dispute shell mern strike, soldiering, lock-
out and other ccts and counter-acts, hempering the normal course of work of en
enterprise, performed by the perties concerned with labor relations with the
object of ettrining their respective cleims.
Art. 8. In this law public welfere work shell meen the following work
which provides services essential to deily life of the generel public:
0.
Transportation work.
b.
Post, tolegraph or telephone vork.
C.
Work for supplying water, gas or elcctricity.
d.
Medicel trentment and public heelth work.
Tho competent minister shall have pover to designrte, other then the work
in any cleuse of tho preceding peragreph, eny work the stoppege of which will
seriously effect the netional economy or seriously endenger the deily life of

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
the general public for e specified period of time not exceeding one yeer in
accordence with the decision of the Centrel Lebor Rel»tions Committee.
For the decision of the preceding peregreph, the egreement of e majority
in each instance of the members representing the employers, workers and the
neutral shell be required.
Immedietely efter the designation of public welfere works mursuent to the
provision of the second peregreph, the competent minister shell be reguired to
widely publicize the metter by eppropriete means such as the newsnaper and the
radio, in eddition to the notice in the officiel Grzette.
Art. 9. When ects of dispute occur, thc partics concerned should rcport
thereon to the Lebor Relations Committee or the edministrstive euthori' without
deley.
CHAPTER II. CONCILIATICN
Art. 10. The Lebor Rel-tions Committees shall cech conoint end keep e
penel of concilietors.
Art. ll. The concilietors shell be men of knowledge ond experience who are
capeble of rendering essisterce for the settlenent of the lrbor dispute under
the provisions of this Chepter nd need not reside where the Lebor Rel-tions
Committee hes jurisdiction.
Art. 12. In event of a dispute, upon the request of both or one of the
nerties or on his oun initistive, the chrirmen of the competent Labor Relntions
Committee shall nproint e concilintor from the ponel, cxcent thet with the ep-
proval of the Committee a person not on the penel mry be eppointed by the cheir-
men es s temporory conciliator.
Art. 13. The concilietor shell endesvor to contrct both pertics, scertein
their respective points of vier end assist them in rriving nt e settlement.
Art. 14. In the event thot the concilietor hes no prospect of cffecting a
settlement, he shell vithdrar end report the solient fects of the cose to the
Lebor Relstions Comrittee.
Art. 15. Proccdurel matters concerning concilintion other then those pro-
vided in this Chapter shall be fixed by en ordinence.
Art. 16. Nothing in this Chanter shall be construed to prevent th settle-
ment of e dispute by other meens of concilistion then thoso fixed here..., either
by mutuel egreoment or in ccordence with the provisions of  trade rgroement.
CHAPTER III. MEDIATION
Art. 17. Liediction by the Labor Relations Committee under the provisions
of Article 27, paragreph 1, clause 3 of the Trade Union Law shell be carried
out under the provisions of this Chepter.
Art. 18. The Lebor Rcletions Committee sholl carry out medietion in ny
of the following cases:
-2 -

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
(1) When a request for mediction has been mede to the Labor Reletions
Committee by both perties concerned ith the disoute.
(2) When both or cither one of the partics reoucsts medietion to the
Lebor Reletions Committee in accordence vith the vrovisions of ? trade grcement.
(3) When in s cese involving public rclfore vork, a reouest for media-
tion hes been mede by either perty to the Lebor Reletions Committee and the
Labor Relstions Committee decidc that medietion is necessary.
(4) When in e case involving public welfere work the Labor Reletions
Committec decided that it is necessery to cerry out medirtion et its orm
initietive.
(5) When in a case involving public relfore vork or, in e cnsc having
greet scope or involving work of n speciel nature end for these reesons
seriously affecting the public welfare, & request for medietion hes been mede by
the Administrative authority to the Lebor Relntions Committce.
In the cvent th-t a mediation by cither a local Laber Relntions Committce
or by e speciel Labor Rel-tions Committee under the rrovisions of the proceding
paregreph failcd, the Centrel Labor Reletions Committee shell have pow  to effect
mediation either et the request of both or of one of the perties concerned or
et its own initintive.
The medietion corried out by the Centrel Lober Rclstions Committec at its
om initietive in accordance ith the provisions of the preceding paregreph
shall be confined to the ceses under paregreph 1 (5).
Art. 19. The medistion by the Labor Relctions Committee shall be carried
out by setting up a Mediation Conmittee consisting of the members reprcsenting
the enployers, the mombers representing the workers nd the neutrel rembers.
Art. 20. The numbers of members representing the employers nd workers
stll bc cquel.
Art. 21. The members of the Medintion Comnitten shell be cppointed by the
cheirmen of the Labor Relstions Committee from emong the members of the Labor
Reletions Committee: provided, however, thet outside members mey be epnointed
by the chrirmen of the Lebor Relotions Committee rs follors:
(1) For sclecting employer represent-tives from outside, if egreed to
by the employer rembers of the Labor Relntions Cormittec.
(2) For sclecting lsbor representatives from cutside, if rereed to by
the labor members of the Labor Reletions Committee.
(3) For selecting neutrel representetivs from outsid, if egreed to
by e mejority of cach of beth the cnployor ond wcrker ne-b rr of the Lrbor
Relations Committce.
The members ppointed in ccordrnce vith the provision of the preceding
poregroph sh-ll be regorded rs stoff members engoged in officirl business under
lrws and ordinnce.
- 3 -

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
Art. 22. There shall be n chairmen for the Medi-tion Conmittce. The seid
cheirman shell be elected by the Medirtion Ccrmittee from mong the neutrel
members thereof.
Art. 23. The Medistion Committee shell be corvoked by its chairmen end
the decisions of the Medirtion Committee shall te made by  mnjority vote.
No meeting shrll be held unless the members representing the employers end
workers ere present.
irt. 24. The Medistion Conmittee shell fix the dote, request the presence
of the prties concerned and request them to present their vic:s.
4rt. 25. The Nedintion Committec sholl hove the po er to exclude from the
proceedings eny persons other then the prrties nd relevont vitnesses.
irt. 26. The Medintion Committce shell hove the pc er to dreft n proposo1
for settlement, prcsent it to nd recomnend tho portics concerned to nccept it,
end to publish the proposed settlement together ith  statcmcnt of the rensons
therefor.
If necessery, it moy recuest the neuspepers oni the redio office for es-
sistence in r-king them public.
Art. 27. Special cxpedition end precedence in consideration shall be given
to ell mediotion crses involving public velfere verk.
irt. 2. Nothinr in this Chrpter chall be construed to prevent t' settle-
ment of a cose by mudintion by other mens than those lrid dowm here, cither by
mutuel rcement of the partics or in accordonce vith the rrovisions of the
trede greement.
CHAPTER IV. ARBITRATICU
Art. 22. The arbitr-tion by the Lebor Relntions Committee in nccordonce
with the provisions of the Trode Union Lew, Article 27, porngroph (1), clause 3
sholl be carried out accordiny to the provisions cf this Chopter.
irt. 30. The Labor Rel-tions Conrittee ch-ll -rbitrate in ory one of the
folloving crses:
(1) When a requcst for erbitratien by th. Labor Relotions Committce
has been made by both parties cencerned with the dispute.
(2) When e requost fer arbitretion by the L-hor Rel-tions Conmittee
has been made by both or cither one of the porties in e case here the trade
agrcement provides thet epplicetion for prbitroticn by the Lohor Rel-tions
Committec must bc made.
Art. 31. The rbitration by the Lobor Relotions Committee sholl be corried
out vithout setting up  specirl committee, providel, ho ever, thet - special
sub-committee may be esteblished to dctermine the frcts in the case. When so
requested by the Labor Rel-tiors Committce, it must submit to thc Committce a
dreft evard of erbitration.
-4 -

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.96)
Lrt. 32. In erbitretion proceedings, tho Labor Rclations Committee shall
have the pover to exclude any persons other then the perties and relevent
witnesses.
Lrt. 33. The arbitretion everd shell be madc in riting, end the poper
shall state the date the e.ard goes into effect.
Lrt. 34. The awerd of erbitretion shell heve the seme effect as a trade
agreement.
Lrt. 35. Nothing in this Chepter shall be construed to prevent the set-
tlement of a case by other meens of erbitretion cither by mutuel egreement or
in eccordonce vith the provisions of the trede agreement.
CHAPTER V. RESTRICTION OR PROHIRITION OF
CERTAIN ACTS CF DISPUTE
irt. 36. No cct which herpers or causes the stoppage of meintenence or
normel operation of srfety ccommodations et factcries, mines end other pleces
of employment shell be resorted to as en ect of disnutc.
irt, 37. In public vclfare vorks, acts of disnute by the parties con-
cerned should be disallored until request for medintion under the provision of
irticle 18, peregraph 1, clausc 1-3 has been mede and 30 days clansed from the
dey the seid request hes been made or from the dry the decision under cleuse 4
of the seme paragraph or request under clause 5 of the seme peragreph hes been
made, provided, however, thet such disalloence shell not nnly to act of dis-
pute et the : orks here ects of dispute heve already been in protress even if
the snid  orks be designsted as public welfere vorks pursuant to the provisions
of Irticle 8, paragraph 2.
irt. 38. Police officers, firemen, those cmrloyed at prisons and thoso
officinls and enpleyees engeged in the mork of the notional, nrefecturel ond
municipel government cdministrstion or judiciery, exclusive of public enter-
prises, shell be disallored to resort to ects of disrute.
irt. 32. In case there is a contrevention as under the preceding two
paregrephs, the enployer or his orgenizetion, cr the Irborcrs' orgenizetion or
other persons or organizrtien who ere responsible for such contravention shell
be subject tc a fine not exccodin 10,000 yen.
The regul-tions of the preceding paragreph shell, hen such employer or
such organization or such labor orgenizntion vho rre resnonsible are juridical
persons, epply to the trustees or directors or other cfficiels discherging
officiel duties of ? juridicel person. In cnse such persons, porties or
orgenizetions ere net juridical porsons, the regulstions sholl pply to the
reprcsentatives cr some other officirls discharging officirl dutics.
Thc totel fine inposed for one caso of dispute shall not excccd ,000
yon.
When epplying the reguletions of paregroph 1, the dissolved juridicn1
persons, or the cmployer's orgenization or the lpbor union vho ere not
juridicel persons, or organizetions of the parties in dispute, or other bodies,
- 5-

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.96)
shall be considered es still in existençc.
irt 40. The enployer shell be diselloved to disch-rge or give dis-
criminetory treetnent to e vorker for heving perforned ects of disnute or for
the testimony he made et the proceedings cf ndjustrent of labor dismut nder
this lew, provided, horever, that this shell not anply then rgreed to  the
Lebor Relntions Committee.
Lrt. 41. Those who contraveno the provisions of the preccding frticle
shell be lieble to confinement not excceding six nenths or n fine not exceeding
500 yen.
irt. 42. The considcration of coses of contraventions rrising under the
provisions of Article 39 and of the preceding Article may be initinted only et
the request of the Lebor Rclrtions Comnittee.
Lrt. 43. The chairmen of a Medi-tion Committce or the cheirmen of the
Labor Relations Connittee, in carrying cut mediction or erbitretion shell heve
power to order the withdrewel of enyone obstructing the feir progress of medie-
ticn or erbitretion.
CHAPTER VI. CCHPENSATION
Lrt. 4, The members of the Labor Rel-tions Comnittces, the concilietors
under Article 12, end the menbers of the Medietion Committec, in accordrnce
with the proviso of Article 21, paregreph 1, end those whose ettendence has been
requested fer mudisticn or erbitration of & labor disnute by the Labor Rel-tions
Comnittee shall be compensated ccording to the provision of an Imperiel
Ordinance.
SUPPLEMENTIRY RULES
The date of enfcrcement of this Lew shell be fixed by on Imperiel Ordinence.
The Laber Disputes Mediation Act shell be phrogatcd.
The Trede Union Act sroll be pertielly arended.
The Trade Union Act, Article 1l, paregroph 1 sholl be emended to reed es
follo!s:
The employer shell bo disrllcwed to discherce cr give - discrininetory
treatrent to a vorker for his being member cf e trade urien, for heving tried
to form cr join & trade union, or for heving perforned prorer ccts of  trode
union.
- 6-

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
ATE
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
JK
WASHINGTON
DEC
AH
My dear Mr. Secretary:
In its final report of July 29, 1946, the Advisory Committee on
Labor in Japan, consisting of twelve American labor experts, makes sig-
nificant recommendations to the Suprene Commander for the Allied Powers
for increasin the effectiveness of the Occupstion in the labor field.
According to the Committee some of its recommendations are being put
into effect. I unlerstand, however, that as yet no steps have been
taken to implement the Commi tee's two key recommeniations regarding
the establishment of a seperate, fully ctarfed Labor Section in General
Head uarters, Supreme Conander for the Allied Powers, and the organi-
zation of a stron, ani indepenient Jananese Ministry of Labor.
m
5
Wiiile lefinite pmropress has been made in the labor field since
4.504/1
the surrender, the ressing task of the future is developing and guid-
ing Japanese laior adminictration and rroperly orienting the rapidly
expanlinc labor orfanizations. The labor rogram will recuire constant
and increasin, ettention to assure lasting accomplishment of the objec-
tives of the Occupation. I  ree wit the Committee's strongly supported
conclusions that the present subor linste status of the labor functions
within the cononic anc Scient ific Fection does not give labor considera-
2
tions the influence they should have both within General Headquarters
1
and in dealings with the Japanese government and the Japanese people.
4
In adlition, the Connittee oin's out thnt the present stair assigned
4
3
to lubor functions is ina lequate to cope effectively with the difficult
jot ahead.
The prerent mubmergence of Japanese letor funetions in the
Hinistry or Healt ena Telfare is neithey comm nsurate wit the inerees-
Inm imwort nce of lator in Jamn ince the surrenier nor in accord with
the pry ctice in ail modern Jemoert tic netions. The ceveloyment ef addi-
tienal labor fanctions in the port-surrenler period, vrticulerly in the
field of laior relations, urther emmirsizes the need for un independent
Ministry of L lor viet can ea realictically with the prot lems of newly
C
organized lebor organizations, promote lrbor educational prorrams, end
(0
develop effective arenclr for melistion an erbitration, as well as
21
17
FULED

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
expand and improve the traditional functions of Japanese labor agencies.
The major part that labor considerations must play to assure the develop-
ment of democratic processes in Japan makes it especially imperative that
Japanese governmental labor functions be administered by a Ministry with
Cabinet status.
Accordingly, I urge that the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers be renuested to take the necessary steps to carry out the recom-
mendations of the Advisory Committee, particularly in respect to the
establishment of a separate Labor Section and an independent Japanese
Ministry of Lebor.
A similsr lette" is being sent to the Secretary of War.
Yours very truly,
.
L. B. Schwellenbach
The Honorable
The Secretary of state
Washinston, D. C.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.93)
SIATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
bsew
FACI IF R 
Tekyo, December 9, 1946
RESTRICTED
Tle
25
o.765
OCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPORTING SERVICEA
DIVISION OF FORLIGA
DEC 151946
JECT:
"Final Report of the Advisory Committee on Labor".
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
894.504/12-946
four copies of the "Final Report of the Advisory Committee on
Labor", dated July 29, 1946, dealing with labor policies and pro-
LH-1
cul
grams in Japan.
Tu:
Chapter I of the report is a condensation of the remaining
FE
chapters and containe in a concise form all of the recommendations
22.9
made in the full text.
1 Lubor.rend
Enclosures:
18
4 copies "Final Report of the
Advisory Committee on Labor".
7
Original and Hectograph to Department.
850.4
GAAbbey:1h
DEPARTMENT F 
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AN
ACQUISITION AND DIST 
DIVISION
DISTRIBUTION BRANC:
ir
ECONONIC AFM
JAN 6 1947P
DEPARTMENT OF 
JAN 2-1947
2
1 e. ENCL. RETAINE

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.93)
JA
INGOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR-91947
TOR
Fiile
84
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
10:59 a.m.
894.504/4-147
ARTMLNT OF STATE
fuue Am-l1
11947
APR 16 1947
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returmed to DC/R central fies with notation or action taken.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.92)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
932
Tokyo, October 7, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
No. 1318
A-S
NOV7 1947
AN. SALTZMAN
UBJ CT:
Transmittal of a Report Concerning Japan's
Labor -ovement.
894.504/10-747
The Counselor of Mission has the honor to forward
five copies of a report dated april 2, 1947 concerning
Japan's labor movement, prepared by the Civil Informa-
tion and ducation section of this Headquarters.
Enclosure:
COF18
Five copies of a Gi, C,
308
report, Japan's Labor Move-
ment, pril , 1947.
1947
Criginal and ozalid to Department.
020
CS/A
RH Bushner:mm
1947 OCT 17 PM 12 19
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LIAISON
94     43
DC/L
RECEIVED
DIVISION OF FR
8
MAIL OOM
Jile
0735
794.504
197 0 10
ESER
94    56
π
POLICY
An
INIERNAIADE

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HFADQUARTFRS
SUPRENT COIMANDER FOR THT ALLIED POTRS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
PUBLICATIONS ANALYSIS, 2 Anr11 1947
No.99
Janan's Labor Hovement
Recent magazine writing on the subfect of labor covers a
wide range -- from tracts on the underlying económic causes for
labor unrest, through studies of the unions and the possibility
of their unification, to interpretations of general labor currents
and the outlook for the future. Hany of the labor writers appear
to be conscious of the obligations of the unions and their members;
others view the labor movement variously as a means of social,
economic, or nolitical struggle to improve the lot of the workers
alone. Few extrame oninions are noted and many writers, backing
their stands with documentation, show evidence of considerable study
of the problems. It is often stressed, too, that union actions
should reflect the will of the majority of their members, rather
than that of the leaders alone, and considerable concern is shown
for the education of workers in order that they may be able to
understand and direct their own movements.
Recent Labor Develonments
Most of the writers in this field are advocates of a strong
labor movement; therefore, whether they are writing to urge labor
to greater activity or to clide union members for their faults,
their point of view is usually prolabor. Kihachiro Kimura is
typical in his SUUKAN ASAHI summary of labor developments and the
outlook for the future. Kimura commences by quoting an ASAHI edi-
torial which says that salaried workers and farmers suffer most
from inflation. Consequently, according to the editorial, "the
problem of inflation imnlies class strife. Strife for higher wages
is not sufficient, and workers and farmers must embark on a poli-
tical movement in order to check the causes of inflation." Those
who are favored by inflation naturally will do nothing to halt
rising prices, Kimura asserts - hence, "it is un to the workers and
farmers to launch the industrial recovery movement. Accordingly,
I believe that the industrial reconstruction movement must arise
sponteneously among the labor groups."
larly labor activity featured such aims as establishing the
rights of workers and receiving nrotection against discharge. Now,
declares Kimura, labor's goals have been extended to embrace
positive action aiming at solution of the production crisis and the
reconstruction of industry. The J.F.L. therefore inaugurated the
Fconomic Reconstruction Conference, "favoring a program of indust-.
rial recovery conferences along the lines of the management
conference, and expressed the view that industrial recovery would be
difficult without the cooneration of the canitalists." Meanwhile,
the N.C.I.O., sponsoring the Industrial Recovery Conference,
"maintained vigorously that  movement by the labor groups should
be held concurrently with the canitalist-controlled management
conference." (Before this article was published, the N.C.I.O. had
already made its decision to participate in the jRC; however, the
IRC was not abandoned and is still active.)

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
The writer charges that many purgees, continuing their aoti
ties under cover, are holding up Janan's democratization, and are
behind the Government's nresent inflationary policy. "Under this
circumstance, a unified labor front of the J.F.L. and N.C.I.O. will
be hard to realize and cooperation between labor and capital will
be the more hopeless." Replecing the present Government is the
only solution to the country's economic problem, Kimura says, and
"when the time is ripe for the establishment of democratic govern-
ment, unity between the J.F.L. and the N.C.I.O. will be achieved
quickly and & patriotic industrial recovery movement will be launch-
ed throughout the countrw."
The progress of labor in the year and a half sinee the end
of tho var is summarized in a NIrPON HYORON article by Shinichi
Matsumoto which lists the registered unions as 13,6oo and their
membership as 3,936,000 as of August, 1946. :atsumoto is another
who feols that unions should have a political mission. "If we are
to achiove the cconomic objoctives of the workers, political
struggl cannot be avoided. Desnito the adverse criticism of the
people, the l: borors in general suprorted the idea of political
gonerai striko bu tro C.I.O. (last fell) Tven in the J.F.L.,
which is said to bo coonerative vith tre'canitelists, there is a
remarkable trend cmong tho lover organizations tovard class struggle.
nd the leaders soom forced to heod them." The lack of unity on
the lrbor front is the rosult of personal differonces nmong the
leadors, tsumoto believes, ind "if the unions are serious in
their nursuit of stated aims, unification could casily be achieved."
Matsumoto sees tho gonoral strike s a political move within
constitutional limits. "The agoncy of noaceful revolution exists
in the systomatic noliticel strike. The political strike which
tro unions ro going to adont is strictly e neaceful measure.
Vhother a political goneral strike vill turn into a disturbance
denends upon the attitude of the Government and the governing
classcs."
Grector stross is Irid on the social than on the political
cims of unions by Junichiro M tsumoto, Hosei University sociologist,
in Sozo. Tho labor movemont is symbolic of the new Jo nan, this
writer declares. hereas prower labor movaments in this country
are declared to hevo beon guided chi fly by foreign forces, the
present movement rofl cts tho vill of the neonle. "It is featured
by the workers' own will, ani is aimod :t the climinr tion of
foud lism nd at the crcation of a domoeratic socicty. * * * The
laborers engaging in lebor disnutes heve  social ideal in mind,
beyond mere economic problcms. * * * Hov foolish are the Communists
who re instigting mss domonstretions without teking account of
the true foolings of the workors."
Labor is seid to be seeking the cr  tion of some sort of new
socirl order. "Th workers do not wish merely to have thoir
demands met under the presont monagement, but intend to stablish a
new form of management." Prasent-day id ologicel tronds ere said
to nurture the growing strength of labor -- " nd tho trend of
nublic oninion concerning the labor movomort is fovorcblo." How-
ever, "nublic oninion will require such linitation of the labor
movemont s is suitablc to tho present situt tion of the country."
The success of the labor movement donends on the will of the
peoplc, for "when nublic oninion assents and supnorts it, the
heclthy development of the lobor movement will be possible, but
if public oninion denics and ncglocts it, the movement wili de-
cline."
The ppcarance of strike denonstrations and narades in city
strects draws continual comment from Jaranes? cartoonists.
A. MiNGA cartoon by Kentaro Kancchika depicts en office boy lolling
in a nresident's chair. Ho shrugs off his friend's warning that
- 2 -

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
-he w  e fiped with an casy ref rence to the protection afforded
him
his union. 4 more satirical MAnGA cartoon by Takcshi Saji
sho
a group of wives berricaded in a housc, on strike against
the husbands. Their slogans include: "Fquality of Sex," "Better
Treaement," and "Freedom from pregnancy," while a placard urges
them to "Be Chaste During Strike."
Specific Disnutes
Discussions of snecific disputes focused attention primerily
on those of the clectric workors in the Iate fall. SHUKAN ASAHI
gives an account by Masao Koizumi of the proceedings from the
point of vicw of the Nippon Elcctric Industrial Trade Union Con-
ference. The three demands made by the Conference are summarized
as (1) the abolition of burcaucratic control and unification of
the country's clectric sunnly; (2) cstablishment of the minimum
standard of living, based on an index of living exnenses (this
meant a 50o yen minimum wage, the writcr says), and (3) formulation
of a retirement llovonce systen. The writer then follows the
electric disrut through tho nogoti-tion stages to what he calls
the fin-1 triumph of the union -- chievement of the 5oo yen
minimum wege.
4 DAIlMONDO writer attecks the Government, the Central Labor
Committoo, and tho union, ll tcgether, for their actions in the
electric disnut. The Government is hit for its arbitrary attitude
in refusing to consider the CLc recommendations, whilc the Commi-
ttee is rebuked for making an arbitrory pronoscl without a sound
basis. As for the workers, the writer recognizes that they are
having conomic difficulties, but adds, so is everyone else. "As
the Comuittee stetes, the firm's average weges cre comnaratively
high. T! orcforc, their wagrs should not bo raired any higher above
the woges of other industries and jobs. * * * Vhy should the nation
have to nay higher wagos to the cloctric vorkers alone? * *   We
hone that the lectric workers as woll as the Central Labor Commi-
ttec may recognizc tho ctual status of cconomic conditions follow-
ing our defeat."
I. TOVO KUIZAI SUIIPo accouht of the disnute of the Tokyo
Shibaure Tloctric Comnany stresses thrt, under the settloment,
the full cooneration of all the workors is neccssary in order that
total production may be brought to a point capable of sunporting
an averago total wgo of 1, ooo yen. (ifuch of this is in efficiency
payments.) The writer reelizes that production suffcred during
the disnute, takes into account the rising costs and the need of
incressing prices, and advises the vorkors to reach their goal
of one hundred miilion yen total seles before snring if they wish
their sr lerios to reach  1,00o yen averege. tdvice given by the
writer to workers includes the statoment that "labor and capital
should frrnkly acknowledge the sunerfluous workers (in this plant)
and allow for thom by incrcrsing outrut for the sake of cfficient
managemont and productior. * * * The comnany should give snecial
attontion to cquipnent which nertains to the welfare of the
employee. * * * Tho cmployees should seck to incrcase production
and should not arbitrarilv provont tho smooth management of the
company."
Th, Yomiuri newspaner strike is attributed to Communist in-
flucneos in a HORITSU SHIIPO articlc by Kanichi Yamaura. Yamaura,
 Yomiuri staff member, further asscrts thet the dispute's objec-
tive was nolitical and not aimed nrimarily at the solution of
snccific grievances, but at the overthrow of the Government through
a general striko. Its true naturo ho likens to "a suit of armor
barely shown benoath a scarlet robe." In ThIHfI, Hidemitsu
Tanaka, e railwayman and Communist writer, offers belated comments
on last Sootember's projected Government railvay strike. "A union
-3

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
of the working class is the only way to break through the 
in our economy, and only thc Communists are capable of bring
about the unification of the workers." With the Government o
cials absorbed in "maintaining their own political power and the
capitalists paticntly waiting for high prices, while hoarding
materials," Tanaka declares that it is almost impossiblo to educate
the workers to the neods of the situation as speedily as is
required; hence a generel strike is the most effective and powerful
weapon possessed by thc workers in their offort to unite all labor.
Ho blames incomplete development of the Communist Party for the
strike's failure.
Unions and thcir Unification
"After a year, orgenizod laborers are said to number thrce
millions and their unity is loudly proclnimed. It has now come to
be felt that nothing can be accomplished in the reconstruction of
the country or the rehabilitation of industry without the coopera-
tion of the laborer class," writes Susumu Sawahira in introducing
a JITSUGYO NO NIPPON survey of unions. The Japan Federation of
Lebor Unions, under the chairmanshin of Komakichi Matsuoka, is
described as being closely  llicd to tho Social Democratic Party,
with all its leaders as party members. Membership is said to
number 870, 000 and the aims, as secn by the writer, ere to
ostablish the laboring class as the base of the Social Democratic
Party. "Nothing is so sinistor to the canitalist class as the name
of the National Congross of Industrial Organizations (Sangyo Betsu
Kaigi)," Sawahira asserts. "The public brands the N.C.I.O. as
communistic, but nothing annoys the N.C.I.O. more than this rumor."
The writer calls it an organization of single unions of every in-
dustry, and says that it docs not interfere with the political
beliefs of its mombers. It has about 1,630,000 mombers, and its
leaders ere reportedly almost all grcen hands in labor organization.
The Japan Congress of Labor Unions is clrssed as weak by Sawehira
and dcemed unable to achievo its aim of serving as go-betwcen in
effecting unificntion of the lebor front. Although labor lceders
agreo on the principle of unification, thcy have failed to reach
any agrocment on the metter. Sawahira has no suggestions for a
solution, but classcs this as one of the unions' primary problems.
Zongoro Shimagami, writing in Ki.Izo, thinks it doubtful that
the N.c.I.O. has any sorious intention of seoking unification
as long as it continues its nahit of attacking J.F.L. lcaders.
While the unification is tormed an urgent necessity by this writer,
he belioves such  merger would br useless should it be only nomi-
nal and without mutual understanding and harnony. Shimegami tells
of tho discussions between tho two groups and advocates submission
of the pronosal for unconditional morgor to genoral assemblies
from both J.F.L. end N.C.I.O., so that the docisions might be those
of the majority and not merely of the lecdcrs. If proper accord
and friendship are not prcsent, the unification of labor groups
will succced only in diminishing labor's power, he declares. He
defends the J.F.L. statement of last November which objected to
the activities of Communists in the N.C.I.O. and terms this a stop
toward the complete understanding of cach other which the two
sides must possess if unification is to bo successful.
Pictures of cight leaders of the Struggle C ommittee for the
schoduled 1 February goneral strike appcar in a recont ASaHI GRaPH.
"It cannot be denicd that there are some differencos of opinion
among them, according as thoir mental or physical environment
differs," says the commentary. "To tell tho truth, it is said that
there were two opposing oninions as to the object of the struggle
-- whether it was a political strike or an cconomic strike. But
all woro agreed that thc industrial rehabilitation of Japan must
bacerried out through the action of the labor unions." Among

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
those pictured are Sei-ichi Suzuki of the Government Railway Wox
Union, a trackman with a primary school educatioh, IMasao Iware
of the Teachers' Union, a primary school teacher and poet, Reizo
Goto of the Modical vorkers' "nion, a doctor at thc Fkoda Sanator
and Mori-ichi Okeda of tho Financo Office Operetives' Union, a 34
yeer old pressman at the printing office.
Wage-Pricc Stabilization
The most immediate and basic ceuses for labor's dissatisfection
-- considered to bc wagc-prico dispariti s and unomployment -- are
carnestly discussed by a nunber of writers. The Government is
urged to take cll necessary measures to dotormine, create, end
enforce a reasonable standard of wage-nrico stabilization, a move
which will rcquire the cooperation of all the nation. Such ection
is sought snccdily by a TOvO KEIZLI SHIMPo staff writer. "The wage
demands of th lectric workers' unions, teachers' unions, and
Government omployees wore undorstandeblo in the light of the rise
of commodity prices to a lovol four times as high, compered to
the low wages, as that of the provious ycer," he explains. "We do
not care what measure may be taken, but through the immediate
ostablishment of a ntional, autrorized basic wage system, such
other factors as commodity prices, the distribution of daily
necessities, tc., must be stabilized. Otherwise the reciprocal
spiraling of pricos and wages inovitably will produce vicious
inflrtion, crisis, and ponic." Furthermorc, the peonle must re-
cognizo the d snorate situation,vhich the writer believos, con-
fronts them. "Th wholo nation can have no choico but to work hard,
curbing thoir standard of living to fit the moager national cconomy,
thoroughly recognizing the sterk facts of surrender." The writer
warns against any wcg doliberation council which lcans too heavily
toward the sid. of the Government and neglects reprcsentation
from the workors.
1. Dt.IaMonDo writ'r commonts on tho series of disnutes which
follow d the conclusion of the electric vorkers' strike, and dec-
lares thet ch settlomont is only tomnorary, vith vages and prices
continuing to romain unbalenced. Ho shous how tho pay policics of
different comnanies vary widely end atternts to sliow that there is
no real "labor offonsivo," but simuly : strugglo by laborers for
wages they can liv on. "4 standardizod wage policy should be
adonted, and this should Iso be oxpanded to ineludo prices, for
vago stándardization must bo tied to prico stabilizetion."
Figures, based on the rosults of a "elfare Dopartmont survey
through six prefectures, ar used by another DaIfHonDo writer to
show that averago vegos inereased 5eo percent betvcen Sentember,
1945 and October, 1946. Novertheless, he noints out, labor dis-
putes continue because even these weges fail to keen pace with
over-advancing pricos. The averago incomo of a family of four or
five nersons is 1088 yon, or only 62.2 porcent of the exnenditures,
which com: to 174? yen. 4 portion of the deficit is said to be
made up by solling ona's clothes and about half of the deficiency
is sunplicd through the food products of home gardens. Thus work-
ers' aims, this writer maintains, ero not to raiso their living
standards, but simnly to balance income gainst expenscs. "Elimi-
nation of the cconomic unbalance cannot be accomplished solely by
the raising of weges," ho edmits. Re sonable and accurato demands
by lrbor and real undorstanding shown by management will holp the
situation somowhat, but labor probloms vill be solved, the article
concludes, only whon production is restored.
An EKONOMISIUTO staff article advocat s a system of efficiency
wages. In Japan, tho writer corments, vweges traditionally have
been based on tho living requirements of the worker rether than
on experience or ability. "It is natural that efficiency remains
low. rages must be connected with output. * * *  basic wage,

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
which insures a standard living, should be the primary
If the basic vago is satisfactory, it is not necessary to
wages excent en cfficiency wage." At present, however, the
wage is only e smell part of the total, being supplemented by
"the besic wege ... form the greater part of tho total; supplemen
tary (cfficiency) vages being added according to e scale. This
be the ideal form." The Government, he declares, must make gront
offorts to ston infletion. "On the other hand, if laborers are
content with making cleims for higher wages and do not attempt to
incrorse the output, not only the accumulated capitel of a compeny,
but the wholc canital of the nation, will be decreased and, at the
worst, all will be lost."
Unemployment
4 realistic (valution of the omploymont situation anncars in
T&IHrI; tho author is Masao Tekoheshi. it tho hoight of the war,
he writes, "full omployment" was attained. Sincc then - with the
devastation of industrirl cquinrent, rcduced amounts of raw material,
susponsion of r imnorts, loss of cquipment through reparations,
and closing of ontorpris s throuph canccllation of war damage
indemnities - tho mrans of production have decrensed. At the samo
time, tho labor sunnly has increased with the return of re-
patriates and domcbilized soldiers. Furthermorc, Takehashi asserts.
cech clrss, groun, and inaustry is solfishly sccking to advance
itsolf at the exponse of all others. "In order to escape from this,
there is no other way but to diffuso tho spirit of d mocracy and.
sociclism."
Only productive industry can croate full employment and a
balenccd conomy, Seibi Hijikate cxnl: ins in DaIinoNDo. Paying
out funds for work vtich produces nothing meterial is compared with
digging a holo and filling it un again. Unemployment is ceused
primarily by lrck of basic matorials and gcods, and Japan must have
imports, as vell as produce useble substitutes, if she is to put
all her'lobor to work, Hijikata assorts.
The unenployront policics of cach of the major politicr1
parties ere presented in JITSUEYO NO NIPPON, with one writer
representing cach party. The Liberal writer stresses "enforccment
of gonoral polici s which aim at tho stebilization of tho neonle's
lifo by orgcnizing all the people into : normal industrial system."
The Progressives, sccording to thrir spokesman, plrce emphasis on
the reconstruction of industry end encouregomont of modium and
small industrios to absorb largo numbers of workers. He also points
to  numbor of nublic ontarnrises cnlculntod to furnish jobs.
The Socialists fevor national control of imnortant industrics
(coal, iron, fertilizer, etc.), shortening of work hours,
establishment of ninimum vnges and unemnloyment insurance. The
Cooperatives have a lerge nrogram for public works, reclamation
and rohbilitation, with csnccial conccrn for oncouraging coal
production. The Communist progran would trke from the rich -
including the Emperor - to holp the messes, cst: blish a national
bank and national industries under the control of the people,
"democratize" all industries, and initiato a hugc public works
nrogram.
Methods of Achievement of Labor Goals
4 simple, explonatory article on the labor unions, presented in
question and answer form by Keizo Fujibayashi, anpears in FUJIN
GiHO. The key objectives of the lsbor unions are described as the
establishment of job nd economic security, and improvement of
working conditions. Management by the wili of the individual
members is mentioned as a democratic feature of the unions, which
aim to close the gap between capitalists and workers by means of
labor participation in management.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
Fujibayashi also considers labor problems in two other
megazine articles. In BUNGrI SINJU ho meintains that labor
tions are still rolativoly unstcbilized bccause management hen
relatively uninterested in coming to terms. (This article pree
the 1 Fobruary general strik threct.) He speaks of a sliding
scale system, in effcct in Englend, which features wages basedion
compiled information concerning tho avorage cost of living, end
says that neither canital nor labor can ouestion the herd feets
thus provided in case of any disnutc. But in Jspan, ho points
out, there is afforded no reliablo end clcer-cut fcundation of
facts to substantiate or renudiate the claims of cither side. In
C UO KORON, Fujibayashi makes observctions on the advances of labor
during the previous year. Strikes have changed from minor dis-
putes of small individual groups to organized, industry-wide
affairs. "One great change is that disputes are becoming fair.
Sccondly, disputes take the form of strikes, but not of production
management." However, Fujibayeshi believes that labor unions in
Janan are for fron maturcd, and points out treir recklessness in
commencing disputes without concern over the funds with which to
finance thom. Un to now strike leaders have been able to force
settloments which compelled managemont to nay back wages for time
lost during the disnute. Counting on such settlements, they have
been able to launch movements of great magnitude, invoiving cooper-
ative and even "sympathy" strikes. Fujibavashi thinks that such
settloments for back pay re injurious to the healthful growth
of the labor movement; for, after all, it is the indulgonce of
management which thus sunports the unions. at, the writer asks,
would hanpen to the unions should mnagement fofuse this back
pay for lost tine? Labor should become better organized and more
thoughtful of tre future, cautions Fujibayashi, before projecting
largo-scale offensives upon so unstabic  foundation.
4 TOYO KUIZlI SHIMPO staff vriter foresces development of
a managomont council systen, which he exnects will smooth labor-
menagement relrtions under tho Lrbor Roletions djustment Act. By
creating committoos comnosed of represontatives fron both sides,
labor and canital furnish themselves with a medium for meeting on
a voluntary and cooperative basis to settle mutual probloms and
grievances. The writer gives reasons why this cannot be expected
to prevent all disnutes: labor still retrins the right to strike,
tho right of final decisions and policy-setting must be reservod
for management, nd the laborer cannot be allowed unlimited parti-
cipation in managoment, for this would involve the assumption of
major responsibilities and, in cffect, the canitalization of labor.
But particination in management will heln to provide labor with
work inccntive cnd a sonsc of resnonsibility, he says, and actual
strikes will become  last rosort, after all attempts to reach
agreement have failed. The article notes thet the J.F.L. strongly
approves the idca of nanagoment councils, whilo tho N.C.I.O. has
indicrted some interest. Hopes are hold by the writer that this is
the solution to Janan's labor problens and the means to stabiliza
tion of tho nation's economy.
I. new attitude toward labor lavs must bo adonted, according to
Takenobu Kawashima, Tokyo Imperial University nrofessor of law, in
CHUO KORON. The labor movoment arose of nocessity from the contra-
dictions inherent in the canitalistic system, be explains. In
most cases, the sdvances of labor viclato traditional civil law
such rights as thoso of collective bargeining and striking were
acquirod first by the use of pressure and force, and then mede
legal by logislation. Labor legislation, therefore, "involves
- 7 -

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
a changing of the old order, in the direction of soqial
national law is useless.". What is required is not a syste
laws which fit snugly into the existing civil legal structui
says, but a new concept, based on sociological study of moder
ing standards and ideals.
Education of Unionists
Both critics and labor spokesmen agree that education of the
working classes is a necessary condition to a healthy labor move
ment. One of the critics, Dr. Kazuo Okochi of Tokyo Imperial Uni-
versity, mentions the need for labor education in NIPPON DOKUSHO
SHIMBUN. Because "union members have no knowledge of their position
they are not well informed concerning the social system and, above
all, they lack any sense of labor ethics. Thus we seriously doubt
whether they can play an important part in the program of demoerati-
zation; aiso we draw the conclusion that the labor union has neither
the desire nor the capacity to participate constructively in joint
management." Hidezo Kondo, MANGA cartoonist, charges that most
strikers are unaware of the significance of what they are doing,
although he is "of the opinion that under the existing economic
structure strike action is unavoidable in order to secure a decent
living for the masses." But Kondo is irritated by the careless.
attitude of labor leaders. "If the chairmen of the committees or
any other leaders believe that their principles and policies are
justly founded in humanity, why do they not take the trouble to ex-
plain this? Militant leaders, I will cease to complain if you be-
lieve that the time for enlightenment has passed. But I, who am
confident that a bloodless revolution must have its moving spirit
in the masses and in their complete education, will have to turn
aside from the red flags which represent a forced and unnatural
movement."
The need for education is illuminated in a FUJIN NO ToMO ar-
ticle by Tokuko Yamemuro about the girls who do clerical and clean-
ing work at Ueno Station in Tokyo. The long hours and poor working
conditions (the cleaning girls get up at four-thirty in the morning
and get to bed at midnight, the story relates) are described graph-
ically. "e are always tired," one of the girls is quoted as say
ing, "and so we cannot appreciate new ideas. The story of the labor
unions is also hard to understand. Though I was persuaded to join
a demonstration, I went home because I was too sleepy." The writer
then advises: "It is to be desired that they be given education and
encouragement, which will afford them interest in their work, be-
cause they now work merely from the habits acquired in wartime."
A KAI20 piece by Fukuo Otomo studies the Japanese laborer cla:
asserting that the whole world has known of their long hours, low
wages and feudal working conditions. "It is said that Japanese cap
italism, strangling all freedom, created wage-labor of the lowest
type, deep-rooted in the primitive agricultural economy. An inde-
pendent and self-disciplined class has not been formed, and persons
with initiative, high social standards and labor fervor have never
developed. * * * It is evident that labor unions, organized from
those workers, have no fervor,and no ability to participate posi-
tively in management. Thus it becomes necessary to re-educate
workers from this feudal group to a modern productive class." Ja-
pan did have a few progressives in prewar times who fought against
the most difficult conditions. This fact, plus "the strength of
the labor movement suddenly given expression after the defeat, and
the steady strides of labor are proving to us that the immaturity
of our labor class is not immutahle -- and Japanese laborers are
acquiring increased class consciousness through their struggles.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Trend3. Warnings, and Hopes
In an article deploring the condition of his country, Hitoshi
Yamakawa, writing for TAIHrI, finds grounds for hope in the labor
movement. (It is to be noted that Yamakawa is a prominent Social-
ist and may be considered to be speaking at least partially for the
J.F.L.) "It is noticeable that the salaried business class is
holding the reins in the prevailing labor movement. * * * The
leaders are generally intellectuals with university degrees. They
are said to be the most radical elements in the labor movement 
if they were cold to it, such rapid development could not have been
expected. * * * It is a significant social phenomenon that engineers
and business men have made up their minds to share the fortune of
the workers. Labor unions which include the staff members of a
company naturally will try for cooperation rather than outright
strife."
An FKONOMISUTO staff article lauds the N.C.I.O. participation
in the Fconomic Reconstruction Conference, declaring that this shows
the desire of labor and capital to join in a cooperative effort.
The article also condemns the Yoshida Government for anti-labor
policies: "The crisis must be surmounted at cost to either the
capitalists or the mass of workers. Is the Yoshida Government --
which asserted in a New Year's statement that the labor movement is
a dangerous action by lawless people -- confident of surmounting
the crisis? * * * Vithout proper recognition of the labor unions
there can be no industrial rehabilitation. Yoshida Government,
wake up or resign! It is impossible to surmount the present crisis
unless Government, labor and capital cooperate frankly."
The history of general strikes is traced in KAIZO by Iwao
Ayusawa, who note: that both the people and the governments of the
United States and Ingland oppose such moves. "In the future," he
writes, "the general strike will not be practiced and will not
need to be practiced." Its previous results have not been good, he
says, and as social policies come to reflect the popular will more
and more, its causes will be removed. Only if they are oppressed
continuously by undemocratic power, must the Japanese laborers rise.
Such necessity is removed if "we enforce the most thoroughly
democratic labor policy."
Jananese labor is not striving for the actual ideal goals set
up for it in the new Constitution, writes Kazuo Okochi in HIKARI.
Instead of seeking to realize the rights of "a healthy and cultural
minimum standard of living," they are simply pressing demands for
immediate benefits. At the same time, the State should "strive for
the improvement and advancement of social welfare, social security,
and nublic health." Labor is showing no concern with establishing
what he calls "the worthwhile life," says this author, and is not
sincere in its request to be allowed to take a responsible part in
management.
Constructive Advice
One of the most objective of all the labor essays is an
editorial in the labor review RODO HYORON. The author comments
on the surprising progress made by Jananese unions up through the
beginning of this year. His figures show the greatest number of
unions in prewar years to have been 993 (in 1935) and the largest
membership 420,589 (in 1936). In 1941 there were 11 unions with
895 members. Now there are more than 15,000 unions and 4,000,000
members. The writer warns, however, that this development is not
something which has been "won" entirely by the laborers them-
selves. "Our labor union movement has made a rapid outward
development, under the guidance of the Allied forces, and although

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
1ts full intcrnal development lcaves much to be demir
gained unexpcctodly succossful results in its strife.
"there can be no more dangcrous way of thinking than to be
intoxicated with the successful accomplishments- without rmr
ing upon thoir real causes - and on this basis to take an o
optimistic view of the future. There are many inconsistondiem
and irrationalitics in the growing labor union movoment, and
only by incossant efforts to sottle end overcomo them can we
achieve a real development of the lebor movemont."
Sources
(Magazincs, Circuletions* and luthors*)
4SAHI GRAPH (Asahi P1ctorial News) 70,O00, Masayoshi Kodai;
BINGFI SHUNJU (Litorary Roview) 70,O0O, Kcizo Fujibayashi;
CHUO KORON (Contral Roviow) 100,O00, Koizo Fujibayashi, Takonobu
Kawashima; D4.ILMo"D0 (Diamond) 90, O00, Soibi Hijikata, 3 staff
articlcs; IKONOMISUTo (Economist) 35,O00, 2 staff articlos;
FUJIy Gl.HO (Vomon's Pictoricl News) 1óO, O00, Keizo Fujibayashi;
FUJIN NO TONO (Vemen's Friond) 1OO, OOO, Tokuko YamamurO: HIKARI
(Light) 80, O00, Kezuo Okochi; HORITSU SHIMPO (Journal of Law end
Politics) 25,OOO, Kanichi Yamaura; JITSUGYO NO NIPPON (Japan's
Industry) 50,000, Susunu Sawahira; K/ I20 (Reconstruction) 80,000,
Zengoro Shimagani, Fukuo Otomo, Iwmo Ayusawa; W NGi (Cartoon)
120,O00, Kontaro Kancchika, Takoshi Saji, Hidczo Kondo; NIPPON
DOKUSHO SHIIBN (Nippon Book Revicw) 100,O0O, Kczuo Okochi;
NIPPON HYORON (Hippon Reviow) 50,O0O, Shinich1 Matsumoto; RODO
HYORON (Lebor Rev1ow) 50,000; SIUKAN LS(HI (4sahi Wock1y) 250,000,
Kihachiro Kinura, Masao Koizumi; S0zo (Crcation) 35,O0o, Junichiro
Matsumoto; T4IHmI (Peace) 50,000, Hidrmitsu Tanake, Masao
Takahashi, Hitoshi Yamakawa; TOYO KnIzlI SHIMPO (Oriental Ecohomist
25,000, 3 staff articlcs.
10
* Whorc availablc

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.91)
0
D-
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 13, 1947
SA:
STATE
ADEC 1
UNCL.SSIFIED
No. 1329
STATE
PCIR
SUBJECT:
Trensmittel of English-Jepenese Glossary of Labor
Terms.
94.504/10-1347
The actine .oliticai dviser has tho honor to enclose
1/
five copies of cn Lhglish-Japenese clossery of standardized
americen lebor teras (translater into depburn Romaji, and
Kenji), cated se: tember l, 1947. The list was compiled by
the Lebor Division of the Economic nd Scientific Section
of this Headquerters to fecilitete the development of
healthy, denocrt tic unionisn in Ja en and to aid military
government officers in the field.
Enclosure:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Five conies of un Eglisn-
15
RECEIVED
Japanese Glossery of Labor
Teras, Se: tember 1a, 1947.
0211947
VOIR
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE
COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/A
Original und ozelid to the Department.
RECEIVED
850.4
RIBushner: vr
I 894.504/10-184).
1947
Jie
C.1
os
4
1947 001 20
ap
1947 01  9 51
POL1IOY
INIENARIDE
OFFICE 9F

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.91)
ECONOMIC ND SJIENTIFIC SECTION
LAX? DIVISION
APO J00
12 Soptember 1947
SUBJT: Word List of a urican L.sor Terminology
TO:
Allied Forsonnel Corcerned
1. To facilitate n? encourae the erowth of a healthy democrutic trade
union movement in Jupan, eouraso nd meuningful standardizod terms re indis-
pensable to cler thinkine. after consiuerable resaarch on the part of ESS
Labor Division porsonnel (tot! allicd nd Japaneso) nd following consultation
with union mombers unl 1 ber uthoritios, the Libor Division hus devoloped this
proliminary list of many merican lucor teras with oguivalont trnslations in
Japinese.
2. any lerican cxpr seions und iaous are now to the Japanoso trade
union movement. Exiet trunelutions are therefore often not possiblo. Some of
tho words wore left in the original English. Others were literally translated.
3. Military Gevernmont ofriccrs in the field m-y find this list of uso
to them in providiny, thoir intorprotors with technicul labor tormt. Furthor,
although p rh  e not posseseing - good knouledge of tho Jup noss language, en
officer in the li ld by knovin the koy torms conteined horein cn chock on the
basie validity of trunslations corducted in his prusence. Parther, whon local
Jep nose sources visit Militury v rum at or explunations of cort in moricen
end English words, Hilitur: overnn nt may Fird this list o? some uso.
4. The L bo a ist hs just issued . glossary of L.bor torms containing
comploto oxplunation oi  h m. You kav bpen snt a copy of this Clossary
on 12 September 1947.
5. Ess/La vould appreciale my criticiss md sug estions sont to this
offico which would rale a furt r iosuo or this list more valuablo to llied
perconnol in the fiuld.
11.
isllil
J.MES S. LILLEN
Chiof, Lubor Division

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.82)
Hoph
Japanoso
En lash
缺康平
Absenteeism, rute of
kesceki ritsu
d journ
Reiki
向会
administrution, Union
Kanri, kumiai
管理，理合
助享丁天
návize, to
Jo en suru
四盟：3
Affitiato, to
moi suru
地合
ffiliuted Uxions
Lamei kudai
議事次事
enda
Giji shidai
Hoikoku soodoomei
merican Faderution of Labor
年全蛋
mal ec
.enk.ihi
保證平全
ushoc ne:. kin
annual dge, Guaratced
提
Teiso
-al
王
Hoos ikomisho
application Slank
Looshikoni c suru
Dly, to
Totei
供
apprentice
是(培)
Zonin (oosen)
-pproval
Chuusiis..
rjitar
Chuusni
roitration
i.
Finco
arreaps, in
Fukahin
sessmont
会计校查
Laikei kunsa
uditin
公计投查委员会
Liikoi kensu iinkui
uditin Conmnittee
威
1.eni
uthority
可
Finka
ut.crization
委任了了
Icinsuru
ut torize, to
核八理人
 en dairini
athorisedt
未次(裁定)
Sui tsu (Sitei)
裏口契沙
Ura uchi keiyzlu
Backdoor contruct
溯及的哈與
Sokyuuteti kuyo
Eack pay, retroletive
無資格組合員
mshikahu kwmiiin
Bad stunding, member in
黑資格組合
Euchikahu Fumei
3. d st náina, union in
提票用紙
Toohyoo yeoshi
3ullot
交涉.
Bargcin
00s100
基本圭菜
Bisic fdustry
Fihon sengyoo

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.78)
E. lish
Rburn
Janese
Blacklist
Chuuijinbutsu hyoo
注意人7表
(burutku risuto)
(アラックリスト)
Bona fide
Seijitsu
誠實
Roná
Fos! solin
保ご金
Tonued officer
tosho a rete yaai
保證
Berus
Reycott, V ion
ubai Domci
下
Bact
Y0r
Bul letin Bourd
ilis
揭极
Sull seesion
Sho: o. i
联場悉会
Dre 
局
Dusinese a at
nsei
常行書记
Sisc
cl, (e mev)
.c.
招累
Jall, py
tobidasi chin in
呼心发之货金
(o)
運動
Cussiore
1. zei ka iil
遊說粗合員
J 1
To' h itoural
黨派社密会
Chir
議長
3 ar e. to pim
o tsu s
告说丁る
( )
(訴する)
..f
天引
o. ief Stovard
so i 
職陽委員長
child labe
年少勞功
civil pirooo
1
民權
chea up ti e
soji ji 
掃除時間
秘密会
clos-i meatin
i iesukei
Ccllective a reot
團体協利
r stor
mis keii no mice
会社經営店
Joany tov
Iuis no ach
会社入町
Jopany union
Go-yoo kuni-i
御用組合
Conciliation
斡旋
Condition
J0k0.
条件
Jongluct, (. ublic estin)
Shu i suru
主催寸3

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.86)
Sglish
Hepburn
Japanese
Con ress or I dustri-1
Sanayobet u lumiei kaigi
產業別組合會議
Ornizati (U..)
Constitution
Kiyaku
现約
Consumers' cooperative
Srohishu ky cdoo kuniai 消费者協同組合
Congmers' union
Shoohisha lauiai
消費者組合
Contract, (indenture)
Icivalu
契约
Convention
Tairai
大会
Cooling off periou
Chirsei kikan
鎮靜期間
Copy
Uteushi
寫
Correspon unce courst
Tstustin Looza
通信講序
Cost of livin
sei utsuhi
生活费
生產要
Cost of procuctios
Seisanhi
Crart union
Shoku yobetsn kusiaj
職言别組合
C eder.tial
Drinjoo
委任状
Deadlocked
nshoo e no ia ern
暗礁入液っ上げ子
Debate
:coron
討論
Declaration of v. c ty
etsuin no sence.
缺員の宣言
Doen advisatle
Telitoo to minusu
保護資金
Defense Iu
He to shiki.
代表委真
Deleto
Duihyoo 1
民主
Democratic purty
i shitoe
De ocratic procedure
ins! ut ki tetsuzuki
民主的十法
De artment
3u
部
Dopartment, national
conkerubu
全国部
解宣
Diseharge, (sisniss)
iko
Disci lire
okai
德戒行為
Fisciolinary action
Choo at ko i
Dicmiral pay
laikoboate
孵星手当
(Tcishokuteate)
(退藏手当)
Descolve en crgeninasicn
Datri o kaisu. sum
闭体正解散乃
Livián and conquer
maats sisa
分割政策
言深
Divisiou
天
家事使用！
Domestic worker
-ji shiyoonin
組合黄
Dues, union
kumiui hi
公的義務
Duty, (ublic)
looteki gimu

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.88)
English
Hepburn
Jananese
Duty, (personal)
Shiteki imu
私的義秀
Economic security
Keizaiteki hoshco
經落的保證
Efficiency rating
Roo itsu byooka
能率評價
Employee
Hiycosha
波者
Employer
Shivcosha
使用者
Enforce, to
Shikoc sru
施行了
Equal terms, ne otiato on
0 cji shikain de
同に資格で交涉る
kooshoo sru
Equal pay for equal vork
Doitsu sa yoo niwa
同一作業
coitse tingin
同一貨金
Ex crficio
S okker ni yeri
職權12依
Executive bourd
Shikkoo iinkai
執行委員会
Expulsicn
omei
除名
Fact finding bo
Fitsujeo choos. iiukai
定情調查委員会
Factory t
L. a joo 1oo
工場法
Faction
Totoo
徒黨
Far Eastern Commission
yolstoo iinkai
極東委員会
Favo.tism
co jitsu
情宾
File
mori souzuri
書類綴
Foreman
k 
職工長
Form
coc.1
樣式
Pratorul dele ate
Yuucitchi deibyo
友誼的代表
Full employment pro ran
n koro pro ra
完全庵傭…ロラム
Full ti e officer
Semmin vek
專任後員
Gannster tacties
co yokndn sen juteu
暴力田戰術
cmoral strike
Sooccomei Licyo
十
Good ctandin, memtess in
anzen shireku kaiin
完全资格
Good st ndin, nions in
nzen shikahi kuriai
完全資格租合
Grievance
Ruhei
不平
Grievance for or slip
Fohui kinyu yousci
才平記入用紙
Grievance machinory
Fuhei short kikoo
下平管理機構
Guarenteed minimum carninn
Saitei heshoo shotoku
最低保證所得
Guila
Girudo
ギルド

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.83)
English
Hepburn
Japanese
Hazardous eployment
Liken sholugyoo
范險職業
Hirin. threu h the union
kmiai o tsuujito
koyoo suru
ILO - WFTU
Sekai roodoo kunini
さ
Ponmei
Individual arcainin
Tojin koos.co
Industrial union
Sua vo betsu kumiai
I.dustry-wise
San yoo betou
I formatio.
Toohoo
Iritiation fee
Myuukai lin
2.
L writing
a ree vent in writin.
S. n eer
crievance in writin
son f
Lnterferenee wit. the ri ht to
sushiki en e no kansi.oo 
opcanize
Inte national uion
inbacat kustai
I voluntar soevitu
Kyposet a teki
Joint bourd, po lore co aneil
oo 1i
Jericsietion
Jrie ieti  i
La or adcinictretion
Labor hors
Pe co ()
Le or di pt
10040o co 1
Lavor force
Recdco Sm
Labor Pront
reodoe se .sen
Labor a peenere
L op a peem nt elaus.
Re  o joo: oc
L or jorn-lirt
toodon m
L bo lyer
wodo  o
Labor rela:ions
Rocdso :ur. ei
La or supply
Roo:n: veo yuu
L.be: textbooks
odo  pokasho
Labop turnover
Rishoku ritsu
Labor union
Roodoo uniai
11,

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.85)
English
Fepburn
Jprese
Labor legislation
Rocdoo rippoo
Layoff
RyuushoFu
Leave of alsence
Shika
Levy, to
Chooshau curu
Locals
Tomi kumiai
Local union
Tei kuiui
Lockout
12o joo heisa
Majorit.
Tisuu
Majority vote
hansun toohyo
2. 
Maintenance of momoereip
Ruidiir srikaku iji
Management conference
Reiei kyoo ilai
Hanpower
Fuukoosoc jinin.
27
Nass produetion
io se
ass support
Taishon shiji
一
Maternity leave
Sazen oro e 
laxi:um ber.ofit
Saidi rieli
Yeal poriod
sto jr 
Lediation
Minority
Mino ity vote
Sheoson toonyou
inutes of meetin.
jijirek
Mining .ct
0 hoo
MHiscellaneous
Zassoku
Motic.
National Fede tion
Zenitokat soodcomei
3. 1F.
Taticnal houd vuurter
o! u Lontu
Nationa: union
Zeneku Jomici
No.otiution
1003100
omination
Shimei
Oat: of ofrice
Shularu sencei
Occupation
Srola joo
Cecupation discase
 0
of the people, by tho peo le,
Jinnin no jimmin ni yoru
for the people
jinmin no tumeno

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.81)
English
Hepburn
Ja)-nese
Officer
Yahuin
Open to the public
Kookai
公司
Crgenize
Soshikisy-
Out of work receipt
Shitsu yo teate
Overtime pay
Zangyo tsute
Parliatentary procedure
Fei i tetsozuki
Perelysie strike
Lahi (acirilo) suto
Pasticipate in a reetin.
Lmi i ni seY sure
Participace in na  ne
reici s
P tera lis
o. cosn i
Fer capit: tix
at..w pi  iik
Petition
. 
Phyriolercie 
Serrt voke
Picket c. tain
shi cho
Ficime line
L sris
Picke. pass
hi t oo
Piece vor
Platfora
CC
Poliey etatement
2
Political actic.
111 1000
Pepelar Prot
. ca
Portal to portal 
Prow le
Preferential ion s.
s io 
President, umion
1
Proe otivity
学
Provision
Joo Y0o
Peotecsic.. or i voperty
ho.
Publie toerin.
ictyokai
Public orinion
Yoron
Punish your eneny and resers yo oodoo buil
friend
Quorum
Teisokisun
宇
Rank-und-file
Ippan amiai taishuu
一大

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.89)
English
Hepburn
Japanese
Recall
K:ininsei (ilooru)
Recognize, to
Shoonin suru
Recomnendation
Kankoku (suisen)
Referendua
Ippan tolyo
Rui-ter
Tooro!u
Regulur meeting
Teiki shuuki
Representative
Dihycosha
Resolution
Lstsui
Fost period
Kvukoi jikn
Revenge
Shuunyuu
入.
Roll call vote
Fomei toohyoo
Fotation
Rinbunsei
Ruhber stamp
ekur ban
Rumoff election
Lessu. toohyoo
So
iota ji (tai you)
Safety program
mon puro rmu
Salary
Ho k.
Scale of puy
Chinrin ritou
Seccdc, to
Dutt. soru
Socendury leldership
Shoosoo shidoosha
Secret bullot
Tumitso toohyoo
Soniority
Nurko
Soniority pey raine
Kinkt 
Serceant of arms
S:iriiin
a.
Sho, closed
uroozu do shoppu
Shop corritte
Sholhb_ jinlui
3hit
Footai saoo
法
Shop ect
Shooten hoo
Shop chairman, deputy, eteverd
Shokut. iin
Shop stewurd system
sholuba iin soido
Sick lo-ve
Pycohi lbuure
Solidrity
Icchi dnketsu
Slave labor
Doreiteki "oodoo
Sliding scale
Suraido sci
. - 9 -

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.85)
E= 1ich
Yo. pur
J.169
SoRirinm
Tuio
Spsedup
S iifo uppu
Strdin conmittec
J:.ni:. linkai
Statistics
Tookei
Status quo
Gen jo
1.
Strar coss
Sutoro bosu
Suspension
Shukkis teishi
Sweat Shop lator
lusu roodoo
Strike benefit .un
ii o shiin
Strike kitchen
.o yoodo suiji
Sorile meet in
 o ki
Strite breaker, (soad, ronk)
a yaburi
Strike vote
o bob.
Su vey
3..0..
Sympatey strike
Dojyo hirve
Teller
Tachiaini
Trade union rosronsibility
Roccoo kuriai seltin
Tre sfer care
T 1 hautc
Time study comrittee
Teim otade inkai
Travel y m ot o town co
suclyo ryeki shicai sarro  
Triul board
Chinsel
Trail procedure
shinsa teteuzuli
U: Pai
oosei
Union cutton
1
Union counseling
mi i soo
Urion label
koriai retteru
Unio:. leude.
Lumici chidooshe
Unio.: shop
Kumiai kojo
Union shop cure
mii kaneiter kudo
United action
D ti kodo
U oranized shop
isu shiki ko jo
Uiox. nizod vorkers
Misoshiri roodoosha
-10-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.92)
En-lish
Hepburn
Japanese
有合作瑕
Vacation with py
Yuukyuu kyuuka
副会长
Vice preaident
Fuku kaichoo
Vote
Tcohyoo
Waiting time
Taiki jikan
货金
Wuces
Chingin
Cinin choosei hocshiki
Wage adjustment plan
Chingin tai busk: kankei n
Wage-price relationship
職場放
Walkout
Shokuva hooki
Yanake suto (i,oohoo suto)(
Wildcat strike
Withdrawal card
Tiishoku k: do
人会
Homon'o auxiliury
Kui i enjo fujinkai
专業婦人
S-ngyoo fujin
Woman in industry
Ichi ni chi roodoo jiken -间
Work day
位事認
Worl permit
Shioto ninia
Work week
Isshuu roodoo jikn
Sagyo wariato keik-ku
Work shering plan
肯犬契約
Koken keiyaki
Yellow Doc contract
-11

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.91)
del
ENAINADE
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
29 A 10 00
RESTRICTED
le
No. 1332
15
D1k
SUBJECT:
Trans.ittal of a Report Concernin a Discussion of Labor
Problens ut un Asiatic Societ Study Group Meeting,
October 9, 1947.
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
~2
894.504/10-1447
RECEIVED
The Honorable
The Secretar of State,
wasl. in ton.
3
sir:
5
I lave the honor to enclose copy of a report containing the
substance of remarks concerning the subject, "Japanese Labor's
Present Position," ade at a meeting sponsored by a study group of
ACT
the Asiatic Society held on Cctober 9, 1947. r. Burton CRANE
1LH
(New York Times correspondent) : resided, and the following special
cuests were present:
Yr. Paul SD,
Acting Chief, Labor Division, Deonomic and Scientific
Section;
Hr. YA ADA Setsuo,
Menber, Mouse of Councillors; Generl Secretary, Sodonei
(Japan Federation of Labor);
Mrs. KATO Shizue,
Member, House of Rep resentatives; Member, Central
Executive Committee, Social Deaocratic Party;
Mr. KATO Kanju,
CS/V
Chairman of the Labor Co: mittee, House of Representatives;
Chairman of the Labor Unions Co. mittee, Social Democratic
Purty;
Mr.. SUZUKI Mosaburo,
(11
Chairman of the Budget Co... ittee, House of Representatives;
Chairman of the Political and Econonic Research Institute,
Social Democratic Party; Chairman of the Economic Rehabili-
tation Co mittee (a joint business-labor organization),
Mr. KAN Makoto,
President, Sambetsu (Kational Congress of Industrial
Unions)
Mr. LIZOTA

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's 1332,
October 14, 1947.
-2-
Ur. IZOTA George,
Interreter, Second Demobilization Bureau.
Ir. STANCymTEID expressed this Headquarter's policy of encourag-
ing the rowth of a strong labor movement. During the course of the
meeting, Mr. K and r. YA ADA set forth in general terms the prin-
ciples of their respective mions. In response to a question by
'r. Stanchfield, they both stated that the strike weapon should be
used only as " last resort. In the past, horever, the expediency of
the moment and the imnoder te action cf pressure roups within the
unions lave ofter precipitated strikes tefore ll measures of peaceful
cettle ent have been exhausted (see this Hission's despatch No 889
of rch 4, 1947 concernine the proposed general strike which was
planned to begin on February 1, i947). Purthermore, it prears that
de  he inter ret the hrase "lest pesort" in an extrembly
Plee mmer.
7
I. response to uestions from ir. Facia: (Horld Report correspond-
ent) nd Mr. Lsol (Labor Attaelé, Unit ed Kingdom Liaison Mission),
Ir. Khio Kur.ju statel that ourtail ent of the right te strike would
result in sup: ressine the hole labor move nt. His susgestion for
the  revention of strikes was that h goverraent should have more
"disonssions" vith lebor fficiuls.
As iplie  . . R. oD (a ember of he Labor Division,
Econolle und scientifie Section), mco. endations of the Central
Laber Rel tions co mittee, a Jipanese counterpert of the National
Labor Relctions Board, re ften suarily rejected by the unions.
r. Kan's llegation thet e Jo ittee diseriminates against labor
seens to indicate th t he sbes not understand the functions of a
ediatien body. Attention is ivived to ir. Harold's statement that
there are nov cisputes between the Japanese Govern ent and unions of
the electricel  orkers, tachers,  nd government railway workers,
which  ill soon come before the Central Labor Relations Coumittee.
In vier of intimations a pearing in the Japanese press that a "labor
offensive" is expected luring ectober, i is felt that these disputes
may take on a politicsl color nd my ror in magnitude.
In connection with a possihle s'rike by the teachers unions,
Ir. Crane asked hether embers of such  profession have mitual
interests with laborers, hether they have the rit to strike, and
if they should be pernitted to have a closed shop. Ir. Kato iaplied
that the fuct that teachers unions exist tnd that their right to
strike has net been denied was a sufficient answer. Mr. Yanada
stated that arents would prevent a long school strike.
The Chairnan did not sumarize the meetine; such a su mary
would lave to take into account the manner in which answers were
linited by the phrasing of guestions, as well as the attenpt of
the speakers, while setting forth their opinions vigorously to avoid
possible offense to the Occupation authorities. As a result, there
was much generalization. Thus Mr. Yamada and lir. Kato supported
strikes only as a means of attaining economic ains, and lir. Kan
apologized for the immaturity of the Sambetsu, an organization vhich
could hardly be considered conservative in its policies. The latter
took care to qualify his support of the Labor Relations Conmittee,
suggesting

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 1332,
October 14, 1947.
-3-
suggesting the possibility that the Sambetsu will not hesitate to
reject recomendations which may be made by the Committee in the
future.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald,
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosure:
Copy of report, "Japanese
Labor's Present Position",
October 9, 1947.
Original and hectograph to Depart ment.
850.4
RHBushner/blc

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1332, dated October 14, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Transmittal of a Report Concerning a Discussion of
Labor Problems at an Asiatic Society Study Group Meeting,
October 9, 1947".
COPY
JAPANESE LABOR'S PRESENT POSITION
Meeting Sponsored by a Study Group of the Asiatic Society,
October 9, 1947
PARTICIPANTS:
Er. Burton CRAIE,
New York Times Corresp ndent;
Mr. Paul STANCHFIFID,
Acting Chief, Labor Division, Econonic and Scientific
Section;
Mr. YAADA Setsuo,
Hember, House of Councillors; General Secretary, Sodomei
(Japan Federation of Labor);
Mrs. KATO Shizue,
Member, House of Representatives; Member, Central
Executive Conmittee, Social Democratic Party;
Mr. KATO Kanju,
Chair an of the Labor Jomittee, Rouse of Representatives;
Chair an of the Labor Unions Committee, Social Democratic
Party;
Mr. SUZUKI Mosaburo,
Chairman of the Dudget Co mittee, louse of Representatives;
Chairmrn of the Political and Econonic Research Institute,
Social Democratic Party; Chairman of the Economic Rehabili-
tation Conmittee (a joint business-labor organization);
Mr. Kll Makoto,
President, Sambetsu (Hational Congrees of Industrial
Unions);
Mr. LIZOTA George,
Interpreter, Second Demobilization Jureau.
Substance of Discussion Follois:
Mr. Crane, provisional chairman of the Asiatic Society's economic
study group, introduced the uests named above and explained the
purpose of the discussion roups set up by the me bers of the Asiatic
Society. He stated that the discussion for the evening would deal
with Japanese labor's present position and pointed out that ideas
expressed by Occupation personnel might not be so identified, but
that they were not "off the record". First to speak was Ir. Kan.
LR. KAN:

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1332,
October 14, 1947.
-2-
IR. Kl: Labor org mizations today have not grown naturally
but are based upon So.P support. Their membership is thought to
be between five and one-half and six illion. of these, 1,200,000
are me nbers of the Se betsu.
Tere lave ben a nu her of criticisns of the Sambetsu, aaong
them that  e lean to ard strikes, and that we oppose for the mere
purpose sf opposing. It should be re..e.bered, however, that the
Sabetsu was orgunized ro saller industrial units nd has had
little experience in union organisation. I ust ad it that there
lave been excess s, brout bout both by inexperience and reaction
to itiful lihor conlitione hich have existed since the war.
ere are  eleents inan ich are not workin toward
deapcracy and the Sbet su is deter ined to opp ose the. To gain a
"new life" we 1 n to ovureo e the crisis  organized labor. Our
first ste will be towird inereased production. Ae first factor
necessary to chieve inereesed production is a minimum wage. No
luuries are expected  ve do not reject the life of lardship which
the Katayam Sabinet las sd is uavoiduble. e do not want an
inlationary wage-price spiral but we ust have a supply of daily
necessities for our filies. He Pvor eradication of tre black
market vnd ip roved lec 1 distrtution.
with ren? to urioliz onindustry" (or decentralization
of industry), labor fuces se ischer. le advocate increased pro-
duction to ,reven such hardsh ip, nd believe that such an increase
can be ade at the factory b e fforts ef  he workers. We have,
therefore, recot ended nification f che labor front.
Sone of the isery of vorkers  y be uttributed to lack of edu-
cationtl  ctivity, lack of reseurch ficilities, and consequently lack
of  scientific basis for action. uch scurcit of culturul activity
Is due to e extreme poverty of the luborers.
Sumbetsu las both  youth sect ion nd a  onan's section vhich
have often "eted independently. There has now been established a
committee to "cuide" these sections and to coordinate their activities
ith the policy of Sambetsu.
i. STAllClIEID: SOAP's poliey toward labor has been generally
denonstrated throu hout the Occupation. I is well knorn that S0AP
encourages the roth of  stron labor ove ent. The re oval of the
restrictions on labor began in December 1945 with the  assage of a
lubor union law by the Diet very similar to the Nagner Act. Recently
(September 1947) the Labor St ndards Law and the Labor inistry Law
lave been passed.
I should like to preface certain questions I have in mind with
a basic premise. The achievement of labor rights depends on
collective bargaining. The right to strike is a necessary part of
labor's power but this right must be conditioned by the state of the
nation's economy. The position of Japan's economy at present makes
certain

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1332,
Cctober 14, 1947.
-3-
certain forms of the strike  hardship on the whole people. For
example, a strike in ublic utilities, in view of Japan's low pro-
duction, might be an interruption which would postpone the day of
recovery.  first question, then, is: to what extent can the
right to strike be used  hen it might create disaster and weaken
the labor movement in goneral? y second question is: to what
extent should the leaders of the labor novement use a strike for
political purposes not directly connected vith the interests of
labor (for eximple, the abortive February 1 general strike)?
IR. YADA: As for the first uestion, it has always been the
policy of the Sodomei to use the crike :eapon as a last resort when
collective bargaining las failed. With regard to the second question,
the Sodomei policy has been never to  ix trade unions with politics.
The function of a union is not to cxercise political influence but to
obtain economic ins. Tor this reason, the Sodomei opposed the
February strike on account of its political purpose. However, we
have presented a wiited front with the Sanbetsu in our econonic
de...ands.
IR. K: It is the  olicy of th.e Sa mbetsu to carry on collective
bargaining to the last ditch and to depend on the Labor Relations Com-
mittee, but this course is made ifficult by the painful position of
labor today and the unde ocratic attitude of c.mployers. As for the
second question, the Sambetsu has never begun from the stendpoint of
political considerations but las depended primarily upon economic con-
siderations. In tle Februr strike it becane arparent that the
destruction of the Yoshida Cabinet was recossary in order to obtain
our econo ic de uds. unl certain cle cents in the Stcmbetsu had
rinary olitical p rposes. t our national ceting in June, it was
deter ined to carry out political move ments tl.routh the Communist and
Soc: 1 De..ocratic prties.
LR. SUSUKI: I should Iike to begin with a basic pre. mise: the
most important point to consider is that the rehabilitation of Japan
requires thut each must do his share. Labor shonld furnish labor,
and the oner ust turn over ll his coods to increase production.
The rerettable features of the S: betsu's past action have been
that (1) they have been more prone to argue than to nake constructive
decisions and (2) the Sambetsu believes that I borers must carry out
the rehabilitation of Japan, but we beliove that cooperation between
labor and o"ners is necessary.
With regard to str kes, it should be re eibered that the 1,800
yen wage set by the Katayana Cabinet is not sufficient. We ust
request the Japanese Covern lent to increase wages by Hovertber, either
by increasing "renl" wages or by addition l rayments in kind. To this
end, SCAP pernission is solicited.
An increase in wages broucht about by a strike (even up to 3,000
yen a month) vould not be sufficient. Terefore, labor and employers
should depend upon the Labor Relations Committee. Labor cannot obtain
its

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1332,
October 14, 1947.
-4-
its aims by strikes in individual industries; only an increase in
total production will bring inprovement.
LR. MiTO: I object to Mr. Crane's statement in the intro-
ductory remarks7 that I was in instigator of the February strike.
I opposedthat strike bec use its clhief purpose was political.
A labor union re resents the economic interests of labor and
chould call  strike for econo ic purposes. The Social De mocratic
Party is op osed to  political trike, which should be made in the
nave of the politic-1 arty nd not the labor ore nization.
Horever, a strike by govern ment employees may be mistaten for
a politicnl eve ent since the party opposed is the goverment.
such a strike y rise from an ccono e be inning nd vy be poli-
Licelly tineed (as the Febrr rik was) by the government. Such
tinner
. : e   l ed he fundamentel prin-
 le t the s, . Y ude t like to set forth those of
 .
S. YA D.: he Sodomei s Sounded as  friendly society in
113  . Sui, whe bd beun  enced, hen in Aerice, by
Sa mel compers. For purposes f cenceal ment, t was set up as a
labor schoo? attache to a rist un society. Despite the "public
peace peasures" and vigorour oppresslon by the police and the Home
inistry, lere vere smll s rilhes b t e Socielists end Coraunists
amng students and teachers in e schools of Japan until 1929. The
th ree  ajor prineiples ef tle Sodomei are unti-comunisu, anti-
capitalism, y' unti-fascism.
Political poliey shoule be de tonstrated through Parliament. We
believe in a polic of inlustrial peace wit the strike  eapon to be
used :s a last resort. First, collective biraining should be
utilised, then the Labor Relations Co muittee, and finally, if
necessary, the strike weapon.
At the eetine of the Sodomei, hich enced today, it was resolved
Lo remain cautious toward the Worla Federation of Prade Unions because
of the political influences which exist therein. Russia and the
Co unist Party have too much influence in the Federation and, there-
fore, the Sodo. ei does not wish to articipate.
IR. FRoi (World Report Correspondent): at would be the effect
of a proposal recently made in the Diet by the Liberal Party to curtail
the right to strike? For example, a comparison might be made between
the operation of labor unions in the Inited States and those in Russia
here the right to strike has been curtailed.
LR. KATO: A comparison between Russia and the United States is
inpossible because union policies depend on the conditions in each
country. If the strilte ri ht were curtailed in Japan, the young
inexperienced labor movement would draw into its shell, except for
a few enlightened elements vhich might take action. Labor reaction-
aries would again return to control. Instead of curtailment of the
right

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1332,
October 14, 1947.
-5-
right to strike, we should have discussions between labor and
governnent officials.
IR. ILsoN (Labor Attaché, United Kingdon Liaison Mission):
Perhaps a comparison vould be possible between the use made of the
strike wearon in the United Kingdom and in the United States. The
United Kingdom is similar to Japan in its need for increasing pro-
duction. If satisfactory negotiating  achinery between government
officials and labor existed, would the unions be satisfied to with-
hold a strike until every means of settlement was explored?
R. KATO: The need for production in Japan is the same as in
the United Kingdom, but the labor movenents are very different.
Democracy and labor unions are old in England but young in Japan.
Governnent curtailment cf the right to strike mi ht bring about
unexpected results. Discussion betveen labor and the government is
necessary.
LR. J. R. HARoLD (le mber of Labor Division, Economic and
Scientific Section): The Con unists are now opposing the Social
De ocrats and atter ting to brine about  downfill of the coalition
cabinet; the Co munists are stron me bers of the Sambetsu. On this
basis, if the Lbor Relations Co nittee makes a reconmendation, will
the meabers of the Sambetsu accert that reco  endation or will the
Conmunist menbers of the union, in order to bring about the downfall
of the Cabinet, subordinate lheir union interests to the party line?
In explanation of this puestion, it should be noted that there
are now disputes between the evern ont and unions of the electrical
workers, teachers, covernment rilvay vorikers, etc. These disputes
Will soon cone before the Centr l Laber Rel tione Committee. Since
the anage ent nd labor embers of that comaittee usually balance
out, the cormittee recon endation will be the reco mendation of the
neutral members, and ay be exy ected to be best for the people as a
Hole.
iR. KAl: The Sambetsu vants aprove ent of living conditions-
by a strike if it is unavoidable. e Sambetsu will respect the
recon.cndations o? the Central Labor Relations Co mittee, but such
decisions are not alweys favorable to labor. to understand this, one
need only look at the membership of the comittee. Co. munist members
of the Sa betsu mill met as union a bers in the interests of the
union.
IR. EeiERSLEy (First Seeretury, Australien ission): Has any
check been ade to see if e bers hich belone to one union do not
also belong to the other? This i tht be :ossible since the Sodomei
is divided geogr phically and the Sambetsu is divided industrially.
M. aDA: There is no duplication of ma bership.
T. Ml: Only one Instance of such duplication has been found,
a 70- ember union in Shizuoku Prefecture.
A HENSPt En COREsr eNDENT: Are the needs of teachers suffi-
clently sisilar to the needs of other orthers to make mutual union
me bership useful? Secondly, do te chers have  right to strike
and,

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.91)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1332,
October 11, 1947.
-€-
and, fintlly, do they have a rilt to a closed shop, in effect, to
decide vho may teach?
IR. K0: he irst gestion is ansi rel inasimch as teachers
unions do exist. heir right to strike las not been denied. In
February, the teachlers planned a strike but on account of the oppo-
sition of parents could not carry it out.
L. YDA:  enerel publie (parents) woula revent a long
school strike.
Ln. KAto: I  tt a ilir witi the labor move lent but I have
had  any conversations vith te chers and I  ave told them that in
the United States teacl.ers whio lave not been paid for as many as
four or five months 'd not strike. Even though living conditions
for teachers in J in are difficult, the  ture of their profession
es "red fiav" wrong
s (fro te floor): ut stps re bing en to
educate mion leadere that tey should not reserve rights to the
tuslons  ich belong to nage ent? or exa ple, recently made
collective barcainin contricts contain provision for a union veto
over lecisions mde b directors d executive cfficers of the
company.
IR. ADA: S omei wnts ts  rened, but finds that
labor- managelment couneils co not  rk because tle euployers fail to
attend the teetinge. mion ore cmmot sccept the mord of minor
com ny offic:als.
L. Y: Smbetsu loes not t uny generl position on union
anage ent plans.
The discussion closed vit out furtler renarks.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.95)
suee
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Octeber 28, 1947.
RESTRICTED
No. 1356
SUBJECT: Tranamittal of a Report Concerning the Relatienship
of Labor Organisations to the Press and Radio.
894.5
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward (under
separate cover) five opies of a report dated September 23, 1947
prepared by the Analysis and Research Division of the Civil Infor-
mation and Education Section of this Headquarters, concerning the
relationship of labor organizations to the press and radio.
The report contains a brief history of the development of labor
organisations among press and radio employees and a description of
the attempt of certain elements within such organisations to inter-
fere in the editorial prerogatives of press management. An outline
is given of recent progreas, following the apparent failure of that
-2847
attempt, toward a more stable and democratic outlook on the part of
press and radie labor organisations.
PHINLAF-TATE
Jile
Enclosurd (under soparate cover):
PBS
Report, *Some Aspects of Labor
ANE FALTH AFTAIRSI
Organisation in the Press and
Radie in Postwar Japan", dated
Septomber 23, 1947.
Original and osalid to Dapartment.
850.4
RHBushner/ble
NOV 21 19+7
FLND

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
'S O ME
A S P E C T S
O F
L A B O R
OR G A N I Z A T I O N
I N
T H E P R E S S A N D R A D I O
IN
PCSTWIAR
JAPAN
Special Report Prepared by
Information Media Research
AR-292-IM-98-PP-E-24
23 September 1947

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T F I C T E D
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER
AR-292-IM-98-PP-E-24
23 September 1947
TITLE
Some Aspects of Labor Organization in the
Press and Redio in Postwar Japan.
SUBJECT
The development of labor organizations in
the press and radio since the surrender,
with reference to their reletionship to
the growth of a free and responsible
press in Japan.
PREPARED BY
Infornation Media Research
DATES OF STUDY
28 Apri1 1947 to 3 July 1947.
PURPOSE On BACKGI:OUND
To gather and record materials on the subject, in or-
der to provide information on the background and present
status of press and radio employees' unions for the bene-
fit of personnel interested in this aspect of the develop-
ment of a free and responsible press in postwar Japan.
SCOPE
Limited primarily to labor-management relations in a
selected number of enterprises. These enterprises include
newspapers that form a .cross-section of the Japanese press
--large and small, metropolitan and provincial. They ac-
count for more than half of Japan's entire daily circula-
tion--9,878,700 out of a total of approximately 17,705,000.
Also included are the monopoly Broadcesting Corporation of
Japan that reeches the populace through 5,704,256 radio re-
ceivers (as of 1 April i947); and the largest news agency,
Kyodo, that serves virtually all of Jepan's daily news-
papers.
R E S T A I C T E D

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
2
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
SOURCES OF DATA
This report is based on docunents available in the
files of the Civil Information and Educetion end the Eco-
nomic and Scientific Sections of SCAP; on conferences with
personnel of these sections; on interviews with union and
executive personnel in 13 orrenizstions, of which seven are
loccted in Tokyo and the others in Kyoto, Kobe, and Fukuo-
ka; and on Japanese press and pul:licetion sources. Open
sources only were used. Main document sources within CIE
Were the Press and Publicetions end the Radio Units of the
Information Division and the Inforretion Media Research and
Media Analysis Units of the Analysis and Research Division.
Main source of documents within Ess wes the Lator rivisjor.
EVALUATION OF DATA
Tris report consists in large pert of factual materi-
als that are believed to bo accurate insofer as they go.
Sources are indiceted in footnotes. A conscientious effort
was mede to gather as much information on this extensive
subject from as many sources as time and facilities pormit-
ted. It was obviously impossible, however, either to ob-
tain or to record all of the pertinent fects. Cccupetion
personnel who have been dealing at firsthand with this sub-
ject, therefore, inevitably will note lacunae in the chroni-
cle. Statements of opinion by Jepenese need to be weighed
with two considerations in mind: one, ties derived from
position held; two, tendency to sey hat the speaker re-
lieves to be proper under current circumstances. Finally,
attention is directed to the fact that the Civil Intelli-
gence Division, G-2, was not corsulted. With all of these
qualificetions, it is believed nevertheless thst the over-
all picture presented is reasonably εccurate.
SUMMARY
During the fall of 1945, press unions were orgenized
rapidly and on a wide scale. In a number of instances, the
organized pressure of employees forced reorganizctions
upon the menagements and geve the newly formed unions an
unprecedented degree of participation in adninistration.
F. E S T A I C T E D

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
INTRODUCTION
3
During 1946, some of these unions or their leaders ex-
tended their activities to the point of teking over basic
manegement functions, such as determination of editorial
policy.
The climax in this process ceme in October 1946,
with the fsilure of a generel press and radio strike called
by the All Japan News end Radio Workers' Union. Techni-
cally, the strike was designed to protect the job rights
of union members who had been discharged on the ground of
interference in the editorial prerogatives of management.
Actually, the strike was part of & politicel offensive
launched by leftist labor leaders.
The chief trends noticeable since then are two: pro-
gress toward lebor-menagement modi vivendi in various en-
terprises; rejection of extremist leadership and policies
by the unions. There is little evidence thet unions at
present actively are exercising improper influence, es-
pecially any that works directly against the development
of a free and responsible press. In the opinion of some
responsible figures of the Japanese press, however, this
quiescence on the part of redicel leftist elements within
press unions is only & temporary and politic withdrawal.1
1. Conferences: Bunshiro SUukI, former Asahi director
and present editor of the Japanese edition of
Readers Digest, 18 July 1947; Masanori IT0, presi-
dent of Kyodo Tsushin, 18 July 1947.
R E S T A I C T E D

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.96)
F. E S T F I C T E D
Chepter 1.
THE PEOBLEM
~
THE CONCEPT OF A FTEE AND FESPO E IBLE PRESS
(ne of the fundementel problems in guiding Jepen to-
werd a denocr:tic society is the development of a free and
responsible prcss. Such a press is essential to the cre-
ation of en informed public opinion which, in turn, is es-
sential to the emergencc and perpetnation of a sovereign
populer euthority.
The concept of e free and responsible pross hes de-
veloped out of the experience of frec societies in foster-
ing end preserving their systems of populer governme nt.
.Their experience proves thet the press must have freedom
of infornation in order to obtain legitimete news. It
must heve freedom of expression in order to report and in-
terpret the news.
At the seme time, the press must be rosponsible in
the use of its freedons. The needs of a free society re-
quire thet reporting be as eccurate, objective, complete,
and balanced es humenly possible. They require that in-
terpretation be clearly distinguished from reporting, and
that it be directed to constructive purposes for the food
of a free society.
These responsibilities inevitably are reposed in the
owners of the press and in the managers selected by then.
It is they who are held account:l le, by the free people
they serve, for the responsible use of their freeccms. It
follows, therefore, thet the owners and managers of the
press above all are responsitle to resist pressures from
individuals or groups that seek to monopolize it for their
own benefit.
In modern society, the over-ell responsililities of
the menegers of the press ere multiplied by two primary
factors. The first is that much of the press hes becee
F E E T: IT E D
-4-

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
THE PROBLEM
5
big business. Only a few people or groups can mobilize
the cepital and facilities that a newspaper of large cir-
culation requires. The second 1s that the citizen needs
as much information and guidance as possible in order to
act intelligently on the complex issues of modern society.
APPLICATION OF THE CONCEPT IN JAPAN
These considerations apply with particuler force in
present-day Japan, where the press hes a vital role to
play in the reversel of the authoritarian tradition, but
is limited by inadequete facilities and an acute paper
shortage.2
At best, the concept of a free and responsible press
enjoyed only a limited reelization in Japen prior to
World War II. During the war, any'semblance of a free
and responsible press vanished in the face of officiel
controls such as censorship, newsprint rationing, amal-
gemation of competing journels, positive direction of
editorial policy, end subsidy of the monopolistic Domei
News Agency.3 The Broadcasting Corporation of Jepan (BCJ)
2. The best exemple of inedequete fecilities is thet
many newspapers sterted since the surrender ere
forced to meke their press run in the plants of
long-esteblished newspaper companies.  Thus, two
of Kyoto's five newspepers rent their facilities
to two others, and the fifth is printed in Osaka.
This problem is not ecute, however, because of the
paper shortage. With the loss of the major source
of supply in Seghalien, and the low coal produc-
tion, Japen's newsprint output was reported by the
1946 Jiji Nenkan to have dropped from 579,701,000
pounds 1n 1940 to 147,466,000 pounds in 1945.
Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, reports that
production of all kinds of peper, including news-
print, in May 1947 wes 38.8% of the averege in the
base period 1930-1934.
3. For a contemporary account, see Masuo KATo, The Lost
War, Alfred Knopf, Inc. 1946, Chapters VIII and
X passim.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
6
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND FADIO
presented no problem of control, being a Government-char-
tered monopoly4 under direct official supervision. The
major distortion of the concept, therefore, was the result
of totalitarian officiel influence and direction. The
fact that the press served official purposes during the
war undoubtedly accounts in considerable degree for the
unanimity with which the Japenese supported the wer, end
for the lack of influence on the pert of those few who did
not. Against this beckdrop, the Occupation began.
One of the first concerns of the Supreme Commender for
the Allied Powers (SCAP) was to lay the foundetions for a
free and responsible press. The principel directives to
this end included the Press Code of 19 September 1945, that
set forth standards of prectice for a free press; a direc-
tive of 24 September 1945 thet ordered the Japanese Govern-
ment to disassociate itself completely from control or in-
fluence over the press; end e directive of 27 September
1945 thet specified further steps toward freedom of the
press and of speech.5
Since the early days of the Occupetion, a new threat
to the concept of e free and responsible press hes arisen,
not from the Japanese Government, but from within the
ranks of newspeper and radio employees. The threet has
been exercised through the instrumentality of employee
unions end expressed in influence on editorial policy. In
some ceses, the threet undoubtedly has been the result of
misconception of the freedom of the press on the pert of
employees. In others, it undoubtedly has been the result
of deliberate stretegy to gain control of the media of in-
formetion.
At any rete, the threat hes brought criticism upon
the employees' unions that formed the channel of influence.
This study proposes to survey some aspects of the postwar
rise of labor organization in the press and recent trends
of the unions; and to set forth some observations ebout
present union organizetion and activities.
4. CIE, SCAP, Special Report, Cherter of the Broedcasting
Corporation of Japan, 9 March 1946.
5. Respectively, SCAPIN's 30, 51, and 66.
F. E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
R E.S.T. R. I C.T E. D
Chapter 2.
POSTWAR RISE OF LABOR ORGANIZATION
The unionization of workers in newspaper companies
and the BCJ, as well as in other enterprises, has been
one of the remerkable developments in post-surrender
Japan. It is the direct sequence of besic Occupation
policy to encourage "the development of organizations in
labor, industry and agriculture, organized on a demo-
cratic basis."6 The SCAP "civil liberties" directive of
4 October 1945 instructed the Japanese Government to re-
move restrictions on individual liberties, including the
right of free assembly. On 11 October 1945, the Supreme
Commander told the Prime Minister that the "encourage-
ment of the unionizetion of labor" was one of the reforms
the Japanese Government was expected to institute in
order that labor "mey be clothed with such dignity as
will permit it en influential voice in safeguerding the
working man from exploitation and raising his living stand-
ard to a higher level..."7
"DEMOCRATIZATION" DURING 1945
The organization and self-assertion of employeos was
particularly early and spectacular in the press. In
practice, however, the movement first was directed more
toward what its spokesman termed the "democratization" of
the Japanese press than toward specific objectives, such
as higher wages and better working conditions. The "demo-
cratizetion" movement was most clearly manifested in
Japan's three largest and most influential newspapers
--the Asahi, Mainichi, and Yomiuri. A number of provin-
cial papers followed suit, but in their cases the changes
6. Statement of "U.S. Initial Postwar Policy Toward
Japan," issued by the White House, September 1945.
7. PR0, SCAP, Press Release, 11 October 1945.
R E S T R I C T E D
-7-

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
8
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THB PRESS AND FADJO
apparently have not hed such important effects in influ-
ence on readers or infringement on editorial policy as in
the cases of the three giant..
The Asahi's internal reorganization began in mid-
October 1945, when President Nagataka MURAYAMA brought out
a plan to change leading editorial personnel.9 Six men
affected by the proposed change voiced their objections and
served him with a demand for his resignation. In addition,
the resignations of the entire board of directors and of
Seiichi UENO, its chairman, were requested. Finelly, the
employees wanted one of the editorial staff to be named
representative director with authority to reorpanize the
company.10 The announced purpose of these demands ws: to
"clarify" war responsibility and to "democratize" the com-
pany. A meeting of the employees on 19 October endorsed
the demands and in addition proposed the establishment of
an employees' union.
MURAYAMA and UENO were and are majority stockholders
in the Asahi. When MURAYAMA refused to resign, a movemont
was initiated among the employees to secure the recuested
resignations by direct action. The six men to be replcced
stuck to their posts; handbills denouncing MURAYAMA were
published; and ultimetums were served on him. According
to a statement by MURAYAMA,11 the focus of the movement was
in the editorial department, but "leftist elements among
the employees" seized the opportunity to develop a "radical
labor union movement."
8. For an early summary of the movement, see CIE, SCAP,
Special Report, Democratization of Japanese News-
papers, 19 March 1946.
9. For additional details, see CJE, SCAP, Special Report,
The Asahi Shimbun Publishing Company, 10 Mey 1946
pp. 4-7. Other sources: files of Information Mecia
Research Unit, CIE, SCAP; interviews with Representa-
tive Director Tadeshi HASEBE and Union Chairman
Kyozo MORI; and "Democrecy and Journelism," in Con-
temporary Japan, January-April 1946 issue.
10. Cited in CIE, SCAP, Press Analysis, 24 October 1945.
11. On file in Information Media Research Unit, CIE, SCAP.
RE S TR I C TE D

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
POSTWAR FTSE OF LABOR ORGANIZATION
9
Under such pressure, IURAYAMA agreed to resign in
token acceptance of responsibility for the Asahi's war-
time record. Further than that he did not want to g?.
He was not supported by the entire board of directors,
however. A compromise was reached by which MURAYAMA,
UENO, and all but three directorsl2 resigned early in
November 1945.
On 3 November 1945, the employees of the Tokyo
office of the Asahi organized themselves formally into
a union. The origins of the union lay in the beginnings
of the dispute in October, when a proclamation appeared
in the name of the entire editorial staff. "...The only
way to meet the responsibility for our newly acquired
freedom of speech is to place the newspaper in tre hands
of the staff which makes the paper," the proclamation
read in part. When the union was formed, it announced
that employee participetion in management, as well as
better wages and working conditions, were its objectives.
In Merch 1946, a "management committee" was instituted
in the Asahi, with employee representatives designated
by the union.
Early in 1946, director NOMURA requested recommenda-
tions from the Asahi staff for nominations for a new
board of directors. Each section of the newspaper selec-
ted delegates to a nominating committee. The committee
passed up to NOMURA a slate of names from among the em-
ployees of the paper--six for directors and one for
accountant-auditor. These names NOMURA recommended to a
shareholders' meeting in April 1946, where they were ac-
cepted by acclamation. At the same time, the shareholders
voted to designate MUfAYAMA and UENO as owners (shashu)
without either rights of participation in management or
responsibility for the conduct of the paper.13
12. Hideo NOMURA, Junji SUGIE, and Uichire NITTA, of whom
NOMURA acted as chief. All three were honest and
respected, according to HASEBE and MORI. Inter-
views 13 June and 20 May 1947, respectively.
13. The six directors Were T. HASEBÉ, M. KOMATSU, G. KATO,
M. NISHIMURA, I. KAMBE, and S. YONEMURA; the ac-
countant-auditor, G. YÁMASHITA. HASEBE, NTSHIMURA
and KiTo are reprosentative directors of the Tokyo,
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
10
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
Internal reorganization of the Mainichi was a simpler
process,14 Late in August 1945, some of the leading exec-
utives of the paper resigned from their posts voluntarily.
Subsequent change in the management was facilitated by the
fact that the bulk of the shares of the paper were owned
by the employees. After a mass meeting of employees on
31 October, the directors resigned, and new ones were se-
lected by an employees' committee from the employees'
ranks. Mr. Itsuo KANDA became "representative director"
as well as chief of the editorial bureau. The new board
of 1l directors included eight bureau chiefs and three
auditors. The Mainichi Employees' Union was founded in
Tokyo on 22 November 1945, and in the Csaka and Moji offices
in December 1945. Management councils including representa-
tives of the union and of management were formed in each of
the offices to enable the employees to have a voice in any
matters of concern to them in the publication of the paper.
Yomiuri's internal upheaval began on 19 October 1945,
when staff members led by Tomin SUZUKJ, the chief edi-
torial writer, proposed to organize a union, "democratize"
the company, and improve working conditions.15 On 23 Octo-
ber, a mass meeting of 1,000 employees demanded that the
president and majority stockholder, Matsutaro SHOfIKI, and
other leaders of tre Yomiuri resign; and that editorial
control be turned over to an cmployees' committee. Their
action was motivated by the fact that SHORIKI had followed
since the surrender a policy of suppressing news or edi-
torial comment critical of Japan's wartime leaders and in-
——————————————————————— ——-——-
14. Sources: files of Information Media Research Unit, CTE,
SCAP; interviews with Managing Editor Masaharu NAGATÁ
and Liaison Department Chief Tchitaro TAKATA; and
Contemporary Japan, op. cit.
15. For additional details, sec CIE, SCAP, Special Report,
Yomiuri Shimbun Publishing Company, 13 March 1947.
Other sources: interviews with President Tsunego
BABA and Union Ohairman Fumitaro WATANABE; and Con-
temporary Japan, op. cit.; CIE, SCAP, Press Analysis.
Osaka, and Kyushu offices, respectively. In April
1947, a seventh director was added: G. TABATA. In-
terview with Tadashi HASEBE, 13 June 1947.
F E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S TRI C TE D
POSTWAR RISE OF LABOR ORGANIZATION
11
stitutions.15a
When SHORIKI refused the employees' demands, they
seized control of the newspaper, ejected SHORIKI, and
turned the columns of the Yomiuri against its legal owner.
On 3 December 1945, SPORIKI was designated for ar-
rest as a war crimes suspect. On 12 December, just prior
to his confinement to prison, an agreement with the union
was reached through the good offices of an interim media-
tion committee. The chief provisions of the agreement
were the designation of Tsunego BlBh, a recognized liberal,
as new president of the company; and the organization of
a menagement council. This council, consisting of repre-
sentatives of the union and of the management, was to "be
consulted on important matters related to editing and
business."
The net result of the democratization movement of the
fall of 1945, outlined briefly above, was fourfold. First,
unions were organized in Japan's three leading papers and
in many lesser ones. Second, managements were reorganized
in many instances in accordance with the demands of the
employees. Third, employees geined a theretofore unheard
of degree of participation in the conduct of manegement,
including the formulat:on of editorial policy. Fourth,
through company executives chosen by union dictation, em-
ployees occasionally controlled financial resources of
firms with disregard of the rights of the firms' legal
owners (stockholders).
15a. News articles denied publication included discussion
of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association, criti-
cism of TOJO Cabinet power politics, discussion of
constitutional revision, facts about Jepen's pre-
war foreign policy, information on the treetment
of Japanese soldiers taken prisoners, and proposal
to dissolve the Zaibatsu. In early October, an
attempt was made to prevent publication of the
MacArthur-Hirohito photograph. CIS, CCD, SCAP,
Special Report on Yomirui-Hochi Newspaper, 8 Decem-
ber 1945.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
12
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADJO
Concurrently, the press manifested an increesing will-
ingness or desire to expose unrevealed facts about the war
and the role of wartime leaders; to criticize the institu-
tions that had facilitated Japan's going to war; and to dis-
cuss the steps necessary to reorient the nation.16
It would be hasty to conclude that the reorganizations
were solely responsible for the new trends in newspeper
practice; yet it is probeble that they played en importent
role.
The methods by which these results were won, however,
were more questionable. The sens of vulnerability of the
owners and executives of the Asahi and Mainichi es virtime
leaders undoubtedly cleared the path for the exertion of
employee pressure toward reorganization. In these two
cases, the changes of management were effected without re-
sistance, though their legality never has been subject to
a court decision. The Yomiuri's reorganization wes at
least partly the result of seizure of the plant by the em-
ployees in contravention of the legel rights of the owner.
Detention of the president as a war crimes suspect enabled
the employees' union to secure a contractural right to
shere in the functions of menegement.
EXTENSION OF POVER DURING 1946
The year 1946 witnessed an extension of the influence
of newspaper employee unions, both in securing better vages
and working conditions and in participating in menagement
functions, including editorial policy determination. In
the latter category, the two outstanding cases were those
of the Yomiuri and of the Hokkaido Shimbun.
The management council of the Mainichi, and that
formed in the Asahi in March 1946, apparently functioned
smoothly enough to avoid open collisions on policy. The
Mainichi employees' union, or at least printing shop mem-
bers of the union, in cne instence exercised a kind of
editorial control. Mimpo, a fled ling paper at the time,
16. See, for example, any issue or CIE, SCAP, Press naly-
sis for this period, especially November end Decem-
ber 1945.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
POSTWAR RISE OF LABOR ORGANIZATION
13
was printed on the presses of the Mainichi. On 24 June
the Mimpo edition carried a cericature of the Emperor that
was in keeping with the editor's anti-Imperial policy.
When the press run was finished, the Mainichi workers re-
fused to allo: the issue to be circulated, and burned some
40,O00 copies, because, they said, "It is opposed to the
editorial policy of the Mainichi union to allow such an
outrageous caricature of our Emperor to be in print."17
Cooler heeds in the Meinichi union sought without avail
to persuade the printshop members to release the remain-
ing, unburned copies of Mimpo. Occupation authorities
admonished the workers that they were denying Mimpo free-
dom of the press. The remaining copies, however, were not
delivered to Mimpo until early in July.18
Both the Hokkaido Shimbun and Yomiuri cases repre-
sented a more extensive and fundamental threat to the
freedom of the press than did the Meinichi incident.
Briefly, the story of the Hokkaido Shimbun follows.19
In February 1946, five employees of the Hokkaido Shimbun,
the only paper then published in Hokkaido, appeared in
Tokyo and related to SCiP that the editor-in-chief had
ordered all subeditors, reporters, end compositors to
join the politiccl party (Communist) to which he belonged,
or suffer discharge. SCAP told them that such a practice
would be not only undemocratic but also contrery to direc-
tives.
The directors of the Hokkaido Shimbun appointed a
new editor-in-chief. Although no further complaints of
politicel dictetion to the employees were heard, the edi-
torial policy end news coverage were so extreme and
biased as to incur the anger of the populace. SCAP in-
vestigation in June 1946 disclosed that the newspaper was
guilty of irresponsible journalism on a number of counts,
chief of which was violation of ell of the Press Code.
The fault lay vith the editor-in-chief, a member of the
local Communist Party, end with the president end direc-
tors who permitted.the situation to develop.
17. Files of Press and Publicetion Unit, CIE, SCAP.
18. Ibid.
19. Tbid.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
R E E T R I C T E D
14
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
In defense, the president stated that he had been de-
ceived by his employees, both in the main office and in
the Tokyo office, who had not informed him correctly as to
SCAP policy.
Told that he must put his house in order, the presi-
dent on 21 June discharged 25 and suspended 28 editorial
employees. hlthough the employee union's executive com-
mittee voted to accept, under the circumstances, the
menagement's action, the men affected subsequently contend-
ed that their rights as union members had been infringed
upon. The dispute on this point lasted until December 1946,
when the local Labor Relations Committee finelly decided in
favor of the management.
The Yomiuri dispute wes more complicated.20 It grew
out of the dissipation of editorial responsibility that
resulted, in this case, from the institution of the manage-
ment council. In the six months following the agreement
of December 1945, Chief Editor Tomin SUZUKI, who wes also
chairman of the employees' union and a member of the
management council, gained more control over the editoriel
policy of the Yomiuri then President BABA. SUZUKI gener-
ally wes recognized to be a Communist sympathizer,21 and
under his direction the Yomiuri became so leftist in tone
that the circulation declined. Moreover, the paper was
guilty on numerous occasions of ineccurate reporting.
BABA and SUZUKI disagreed both on editoriel policy and on
means of ensuring accurate news reports. Their disegree-
ment came to a head in June 1946, in the wake of SCAP ad-
monitions over two particularly flagrant violations of the
Press Code,
President BiBA offered his resignation to the board
of directors, stating that he could no longer accept re-
sponsibility for the paper under the circumstences. The
directors refused to accept it. With their support, the
20. Sources: CIE, SCAP, Special Report, Yomiuri Shimbun
Publishing Company, 13 Merch 1947; intervievs with
BIBA and WATANABE; CIE, SCAP, Press Analysis; files
of Press end Publicetions Unit, CIE, SCAP, end of
Lebor Division, ESS, SCAP.
21. SUZUKI was a candidate for governor of Niigeta Prefec-
ture in April 1947, running on a Communist ticket.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
POSTWAR RISE OF LABOR ORGANIZATION
15
president on 13 June discharged sUZUKI and five other edi-
torial employees. Is subsequent events proved, some 1,800
of the 2,O00 employees supported the president's action.
Nevertheless, the six men concerned refused to accept dis-
charge unless it were approved by the manegement council,
of which most of them were members. They held that the
December 1945 agreement, and subsequent practice, dictated
that the president clear such action with the council.
Since they did not consider the discharge action legiti-
mate, they forced their way into their offices with the
support of members of their faction. This sort of action,
however, was stopped on 21 June, when police arrested more
than 50 of the disputants.22
It the end of June, an investigation was begun by the
Lebor Rclations Committ e. Even while the committee was
deliberating, the dissident faction of workers forced the
paper to shut down between 12 and 17 July. The power of
this faction appears to have resided in the threat of its
printshop members to pie the type. As a result, 31 em-
ployees considered responsible for the strike were dis-
charged. Their cases were added to those alreedy under
consideration by the Labor Relations Committee.
Meanwhile, the grest majority of the employees formed
a new and independent union.
On 3 August, the Labor Relations Committee issued
its decision. The basic question was one of drawing a
dividing line between the actions the management might
take to protect its editorial responsibility and the ac-
tions the union might take to protcct its members from
capricious discharge.23 Thc Labor Relations Committee
held that "the dismissal of sUZUKI and the other five exeo-
utives was prompted by unavoidable circumstances," i.e.,
22. All but four were released the same day. Those held
were dischargees. Charges of illegal entry subse-
quently filed against them cre dropped, end the
men released on 2 July 1946,
23. According to Article 11 of the Trade Union Law of Dec-
ember 1946, the employer may not dismiss employees
or treat them unf: vorably because they are union
members.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
16
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
was justifiable because they hed infringed on the editorial
responsibility of the manegement. As for the other 31 dis-
charged persons, however, the Labor Relations Committee
found that "it is necessary to investigete whether or not
they involve an 'unavoidable reason." In effect, the Com-
mittee wanted the menagement to prove its contention thet
the 31 men discherged had exceeded proper union activities
and constituted a threst to the management's editorial re-
sponsibility.
Up to this point, the net effect's of the developments
in the Yomiuri dispute had been the restoration of edi-
torial control to the management, formation of a ne union,
end the posing of a problem in lebor-management relctions
peculiar to the newspaper field.
The solution of the problem wes delayed more than two
months. President B/BA refused to reconsider his ection
egainst the 31 men because, he asserted, he hed to dis-
cherge them to assure his editorial control. Vainly, the
discharged men and their supporters insisted thet this was
strictly a question of job rights that had nothing to do
with editorial policy. Their strongest point was that
they were still considered by. the All-Jepen News and Fadio
Workers' Union (AJNRWU) to be the legitimate Yomiuri union,
although in fact they constituted a minority and dissident
element.
The AJNRWU had, in fact, pl:yed a prominent role
throughout the Yomiuri dispute. Some clue to the reason
for its interest can be derived from its lesdership. Its
chairman at that time was Katsumi KIkuNAMI, an Asabi edi-
tor who played & pert in the reorganizetion of the hsah1
in the fe11 of 1945, and in the cstablishment of the
AJNRWU on 9 February 1946. KIKUNAMI was and-1s generelly
considered to be a Comrunist sympethizer,24 and the me jori-
ty of the members of the central executive committee dur-
24. He was, for example, prominent in the Communist-spon-
sored "May Day" end "Food May Day" demonstrations of
1946. Interviewed 12 Mey 1947, he stated thet he
sympethized with Communist principles, but had not
become a perty member b:ceuse he wished to take a
"neutral stand" as chairman of the NCIU.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
POSTWAR RJSE OF LABOR ORGANIZATION
12
ing the Yomiuri dispute were considered to be leftists.
In August 1946, the AJNRWU was one of the most active or-
ganizetions in the esteblishment of the National Congress
of Industrial Unions (NCIU).25 KIKUNAMI became chairman
of the NCIU as well es the AJNhWU, and was at the helm
of both organizations during the labor "October offensive."
From June 1946 on, he espoused the cause of his friend
Tomin SUZUKI and of the other men discharged from the
Yomiur1, helping to mobilize demonstrations by other labor
organizetions against BABA and to present the case before
the Labor Relations Committee. After BABA regained con-
trol of the Yomiuri, the paper frequently pointed out the
danger inherent in a leftist-gontrolled national union of
newspaper and radio workers.26 On the eve of the general
press and redio strike deadline, 4 October 1946, a Yomiuri
editorial justified the discharges of union members on the
grounds that they were Communist Party members or sympa-
thizers and that "there is no rcom for such a foreign
element in present press circles... A member of the Com-
munist Party is in no sense a liberal or a democrat."27
SHOWDOWN OF OCTOBER 1946
The militant leadership of the AJNRWU in September
proposed a "general strike" of its chapter unions in news-
papers, news agencics, and the BCJ with three basic pur-
poses.28 The first was to scttle the Yomiuri dispute29
and its close parallel in the Hokkaido Shimbun. The sec-
ond was the conclusion of labor-management contracts.
25. According to Lebor Division, ESs, SCAP.
26. See, for example, CIE, SCAP, Press Analyses for 25,
27, end 29 September 1946.
27. Cited 1n Press Inalysis, CID, SCAP, 4 October 1946.
28. Thet is, overt purposes. It was frequently charged,
as by the Yomiuri union on 23 September, that the
covert purpose was to furtl er the current NCIU cam-
paign to overthrow the Yo. IDA Cabinet. Kyodo re-
lcese, 24 September 1946.
29. ".. Along the lines of" the 3 hugust 1 or relations
committce rccommendation. Kyodo relcase, 25 Sep-
tember 1946, i.e., to win the reemployment of at
least the 31 men in the second group of dischargees.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
18
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
The third and least emphesized was to win higher wages end
better working conditions.30 The leaders apparently hopcd
to force the hands of the Yomiuri en Hokkeido Shimbun
managements by creating public pressure on them es a re-
sult of the interruption of new: services.
Although delegates from chapter unions voted for the
strike,31 there wes considerable indecision in the renk
and file. It was charged that the strike decision was mede
arbitrarily and without adequate consultation with the rem-
bership of the chapter unions; and it wes feered tret the
proposed strike was designed by the AJNRWU leadership to
be more a pert of the political "October offensive" of the
NCIU then an action for. the benefit of the union menbers.3?
On the eve of the strike, as local chapters were de-
bating whether or not to perticipate, the Aschi union denided
to stay out.33 hccording to the present Asahi union chair-
man, the decision was besed lergcly on the conviction that
the AJNRWU Wes "undemocretic."34 Immedietely the Muinichi
union followed suit, and in their wake all of the more im-
portant members of the AJNRWU.
When 5 October came, only the BCJ union and those of
a handful of minor papers throughout the country, includ-
ing the Communist organ Akehata and the leftist Mimno,
actually went out.35
The effect of this abortive "strike" on the Yomiuri
was nil. President BhBA and the independent Yomiuri unfon
on 8 October 1946 concluded a collective bargeining con-
tract36 thet hed been under norotistion since the forma-
tion of the independent union. oreover, an agreement was
30. Kyodo releases, 17 Scptember 1946. Interviev with
AJNR"U Cheirman Takayuk1 M. AZOE, 23 May 1947.
31. Kyodo release, 25 September 1946.
32. See, for example, CIE, SCAP, Press Analyses for 24, 29,
and 30 September, 4, 5, 6, and 7 October 1946, et sea.
33. Kyodo releese, 4 October 1946.
34. Interview with Kyozo MORI, 19 May 1947.
35. Kyodo rclease, 6 October 1946.
36. For text, see CIE, SCAP, Special Report, Yomiuri Shin-
bun Publishing Compeny, 13 Merch 1947, 1ppendix TII.
F E S T E I C T E D

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
POSTWAR RISE OF LABOR ORGANIZATIONS
19
reached with the dissident Yomiuri elements whereby the
original six dischargees were considered to have resigned
and therefore were given back pey and retirement allow-
ances; and 31 dischargees were rehired on the understand-
ing that they would resign immediately, Most of the
striking faction also were rehired and became members of
the independent union.37
The radio strike lasted until 25 October. Its set-
tlement was complicated by the fact that the Minister of
Communicetions piaced the BCJ under direct Government
control to ensure a minimum schedule of news, woather in-
formation, and other essential broadcests.38' The chief
objectives of the BCJ union were to obtain a contract
and a number of economic demands. Management was willing
to agree to most of the latter, but held that a contrect
was difficult so long as the Bćj union renained affilia-
ted through the AJNRWu with the NCIU.39 At the conclu-
sion of the strike, the union oitained some 75 percert
of its economic demands, but failed to obtain a collec-
tive bargaining contract.40
37. Interview with union chairmen, Funitaro WATANABE,
29 Mc 1947,
38. Kyodo rcleasc, 6 October 194s.
39. Ib1d., 16 October 1946.
40. Tid., 25 October 1946; Radio Unit, CIE, SCAP.
R E S T H I C T E D

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
Chepter 3.
RECENT TRENDS
The foregoing outlines the. high points of the ectivi-
ties of labor organizations in the press durirg the first
14 months of the Occupation. Some such beckground is
necessary to a more deteiled discussion of recent trends
and the present status of these org:nizetions.
Since the feilure of the "general strike" of press
and radio in October 1946, two primary trends stend out
in cases observed and reported. First, press unions in-
dividually have continued and even accelerated the process
of reeching working relationships with manegement through
contracts and regular procedures. Second, they have gone
fer to reject extremist leadership and policies, both in-
dividually and in their national union. The two tronds,
of course, are interlocked. In general, indivicuel un-
lons seem to have achieved the soundest growth and work-
ing relationships in proportion as they heve reject d ex-
tremism. In the national union, this process wes sherply
defined and is treated seperately, as is the cese of the
Proadcesting Corporation of Japan.
DEVELOPMENT OF WORKING RELATIONSIIPS
The failure of the October 1946 strike seemed to cc-
celerate, if anything, the process of establishing work-
ing relationships between press companies and their unions.
There eppeered to be steady progress towerd better-defined
contractual relationships and toward the use of consulte-
tive mechinery for the peeceful resolution of labor-men-
agement issues. At the same time, there were indicetions
of & growing understanding among th rank and file of un-
ion members of the concept :nd proper functions of a un-
F E S T H I C T E D
-20-

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.96)
R E S T R I C T E D
RECENT TRENDS
21
ion.41
In the case of the Asahi,42 for example, union leader-
ship was changed soon after the abortive "genera? strike"
of press and radio in October 1945. Kyozo MORI, a life-
long newspaperman who was Asahi correspondent in Washing-
ton before the war, was elected chairman on 20 October.
At the same time. Tomo HIFOOKA, editorial writer, was
elected a vice-chairman and head of the Tokyo branch of the
Asahi union. Bctn MORI and HIROOKA had opposed Ssahi per-
ticipation in the 5 Occober strike; HiRookh hed attempted
to negotiate a sattlement in the Yomiuri dispute: Their
election marked a victory for the moderate majority of the
Aschi union that had, as much as any other factor, broken
the 5 October strike b: vot ing not tc participste. Under
such leadership, the h ahi unior negctiated for and cb-
tained a wage in rease in November 1945. Turthermore.
negotiations for a co tract, in process for some time be-
fore the proposed Octotor strike, were brought to fruition
on 1 December 19:6.
The contrac: provided, among other things, for the
establishment of a managenent council consisting of 10
union and 10 management representatives. From its in-
auguration to date, the mantgement council has settled
seven items of dispute between the union and the manage-
ment, items having to do with wege scales, special allow-
ances, vacations and holidays. MORI and HITOOKA have held
their positions since their original election in October
1946; the chairman of the Osaka branch was replaced in
January 1947, and that of the Kokura branch in April 1947.
41. As defined by the Chief of Lebor Division, TES,
SCIP, "A union is a free, responsibie, and self-
governing association of working men and women
Which uses its collective power and influence in
all lawful and proper ways to edvance the wages,
working conuitions, and gomerai welfere of its
members."
42. Factual nsterial on this toyo sup jicd by Asahi
Union haiuman Kyozo MoRi in interviews, 19 and
20 Ma 1947.
R E S T R I € T E D

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
22
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
The Mainichi union43 appears to have gone through more
vicissitudes then that of the Asahi in developing toward
the relative stability of the present. The union's exe-
cutive committee has changed four times since October 1946.
Although the Mainichi has had e contract since 22 April
1946, these changes of leadership appear to reflect both a
working out of labor-manegement reletions and a contest for
power within the union itself.
The first of these changes followed closely, as in the
Asahi, on the failure of the 5 October "general strike."44
A new executive committee, elected 16 October, lasted only
a short time. Its chief achievement was to take the
Mainichi union formally out of the general strike, but it
resigned, partly as a result of criticism by leftist ele-
ments within the union,45 and partly as a result of dif-
ferences among the Meinichi union branches.46
The next executive committee foundered on a wage in-
crease question. As the cheirman favored the figure that
the company was willing to grant,47 he was criticized by
leftists among the union members. The company's figure
wes finally accepted, but the executive committee resigned
on 25 January 1947.
43. Factual material on this topic supplied by Ichitaro
ThKATA, chief of Liaison Department, and Yoshio
MIYhMOTO, at time of interview, member of prepara-
tory committee for new union, in interview 16 May
1947.
44. On the early morning of 5 October, even after the un-
ion hed voted against participation, some 30 mem-
bers, including the majority of the executive com-
mittee, staged a thrce-hour wildcat strike and pre-
vented the delivery of the Mainichi.
45. Because Mainichi delegates demanded the resignation
of Katsumi KIkUNAMI, chairman of the AJNRWU, who
had led the abortive strike.
46. The Tokyo and Moji branches favored, while the Osaka
branch opposcd, participation in AJNRWU-directed
anti-YoSHIDA cabinet demonstrations.
47. A payroll of ¥4, 450,000, as opposed to the union re-
quest for ¥6,500,000.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.96)
R E S T R I C T E D
RECENT TRENDS
23
On 6 Februery, a new executive committee was elected,
the majority of whose members were "definitely leftist"
in outlook. The election of such men through normal pro-
cedures was the result of "leftist maneuvering."4e This
committee drefted a contract intended to supplement the
one already in effect in the Mainichi by binding the man-
agement and the AJNRWU in contractual relationship. A
general meeting of the union 21 and 22 March rejected the
proposal, and the dreft never wes submitted to the man-
agement.' The executive committee resigned, and the union
embarked on a new course thet tock it out cf the AJFrV!U.
The salient features of lajcr-maragement rclations
in the Yomiuri49 since October 1946 i:e in orde:1y nego-
tiations on wage and allowance cuest ors. The inion has
been under the same chairman, Fritaro, WATArABE. sinee it
split off from the AJNRWU in t! summer of 1946 curing
the height of the Yomiuri dispute. Tre cortraur of ceto-
ber 1946 providcs for a menageme nt council which nas dis-
posed of 98 percent of the labor-management business.
Settlements on wage or special allowances cuestions were
reached in October, November, and December (thrice), 1946,
and February, March, April and May, 1947. On two occas-
ions, at least, differences arose that were not easily
resolved. Late in 1946 the union requested sigrt of the
company's books with a view to "rationalizing" its wege
requests. The management was reluctant to accede, but
fina1ly did so in January 1947.50 In April 1947, the
management council was not able to reach an agreement on
union requests for further special allowances. The un-
ion set up a special struggle committee (tcso  inkai)
that negotiated the matter directly with the menagement.
In accordence with contrac: provisions, management
consulted the union through the management our il on per-
48. According to TAKATA and MIY MOTO.
49. Factual mater al on this tup supplic" by uaion
Chair n Feitaro WAr.  rve 29 May 1947.
50. Pread ut Tsunego BABA conr  rhe tocks are
cooted thet he   sr ihe union has
anyone xpert enough to. comprehend them. Interview
29 May 1947.
H E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
24
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN TIE PRESS AND RADIO
sonnel chenges affecting the chief of the technical depert-
ment (komubucho) in November 1946, tvo section chiefs in
the editorial department in Mey 1947, and the chief of the
general affairs section in May 1947. In the last instance,
the union successfully opposed the change. The union's
general assembly on 18 Mey 1947 elected new representetives
to the manegement council, three of them on the basis trat
section chiefs are too close tg the manegement to repre-
sent the union satisfectorily.51
In the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, 52 the employees' union
since 1ts inauguration In Noveniber 1945 has been under the
leadership of three leftists, supported by a coterie of
about 35 out of the total of 500 memlers. Apptrently th
activities of the union were bothersome but not seriously
so during 1946. There were 12 separate requests for wege
incregses, speciel allowences, and other economic bene-
fits;53 union executives overdid their use of the confer-
ence room; and employees tended to become lazy. However,
the union did not participete in the October strike, nor
did it attempt to meddle in editcricl matters. A con-
tract wes signed on 31 October 1946.54 From December,
however, the union leaders presented a number of requests
that the president considered excessive. One such wege
demand in April 1947 was emphatically and flatly refused.
The rejection apparently hed the effect of weekening .the
position of the leaders, rather than the reverse, for
they proved unable to deliver what they had promised. At
any rate, the three officers of tle union withdrew fron
their concurrent positions as members of the struggle com-
mittee thet hed been set up to win the demand.
The employeest union of the Nishi Nippon Shimhun
51. Section chiefs (except for the personnel section) are
allowed to be members of the Yomiuri union.
52. Factual material on this topic supplied by President
Ritoku OBIMA and Hakue1 OGIHARA, chief of forcign
news section and member of union. Interviews 27 Mey
1947.
53. All of which were granted and non of which were "un-
reasonable," according to CPAMA.
54. President OBAMh, who conf ssea he had not yet read it,
said he understood it to be a "model contrect." In-
terviev: 27 May 1947.
F E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTE D
RECENT TRENDS
25
(Fukuoka) was militant in leadership and pölicles during
1946.55 There wes some question as to union participetion
in editorial affairs, and the paper was accused of un-
truthful and biased reporting and of excessively leftist
editorial policy. It received six warnings for violations
of the Press Code during the fall. The union wes one of
the few throughout Japen, and the only one in western Japan,
to perticfpate in the October strike. This action precipi-
teted the adoption of a contract, together with a standard
wage scele, on:7 October 1946. Nevertheless, the union
-chairman resigned in December, partly es e result of the.
growing sentiment among the rank and file that their walk-
out hed been "unnecessery."56 Poor communications end in-
adequate understending of events in Tokyo led the employees
to follow the directions of the AJNRWU; and in the end they
were "deceived" by the Asahi and Meinichi unions, whose
hnother reeson for the chairman's resignetion quite.possi-
bly was thet the menagement of the newspeper underwent a
major reorganization in December, in the wake of Occupa-
tion authorities' warnings against malpractices, end union
members deemed it expedient to follow suit.
The present (June 1947) officers and executives com-
mittee of the Nishi Nippon Shimbun union were elected at
a regular general meeting on 11 April 1947. Since then,
the chief business of the union has been to advence e re-
quest for a new wage increase, and to work out details of
an age limit system scheduled to go into effect on 1 July
1947.58
55. Material on this topic obteined in interviews with
leeding executive and union personnel in Fukuok.,
6-9 June 1947, and integrated in report deted
16 June 1947, on file in Informetion Medie Research
Unit, CIE, SCAP.
56. Stetement by present union cheirman, Sedao YANo, in
interview, 7 June 1947.
57. Ibid.
58. Those more than 55 yeers of age wil1 be pensioned.
Management had agrecd in principle to such a sys-
tem as early as November i946, as a reguler means
of retiring older and less: efficient employees:
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
26
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
The primery focus of union-management relationships
in the Kyodo News Agency59 since October hes been negotia-
tion for a.contract. Although a draft was initieled eerly
in Merch, formal egreement hed not been reached by July
1947. The chief points of difference lay in the clause
fixing hours of work, and in atteched provisions for a man-
agement council. The issue over the manegement council lay
in disegreement on its scope and functions.60 Kyodo execu-
tives considered thet the union concept for the council
would give employees an undue degree of participation in
manegement.6l In the opinion of the union chairmen, the
difficulty of reaching & compromise on this point wes
heightened by belief on the management side that the union's
executive committee was still too "leftist" in outlook.
Despite the lack of contractual relationship, union and
management heve negotiated smoothly on & number of questions
involving wages and working conditions. Furthermore, there
has been informal consultation on personnel changes end on
union activities, such as psrticipation in demonstrations.
A survey conducted by the Japan Newspaper Association62
59. Factual material on this topic supplied by Maneging
Editor Masuo KAT0, interviews 28 and 31 May 1947;
end Union Chairman Ishimatsu OBOSHI, intervievs
31 May and 2 July 1947.
60. There is no objection to establishing a council, which
merely would formalize existing consultative prac-
tices, according to both KATO and OBOSHI.
61. In the union draft, one of the objectives of the coun-
cil would be "to democratize management," and one of
the functions would be to discuss "conduct of com-
pany business and union activities."
62. Nippon Shimbun Kyokai, sometimes translated as Jepan
Editors' and Publishers' Society. Membership at
time of survey, June 1947, was 120, including vir-
tually ell daily newspapers end important news agen-
cies. The figures are incomplete, as five member
compenies had not answered the association's ques-
tionnaires, and some had made partial responses.
Survey tabulations on file in Information Media Re-
search Unit, CIE, SCAP.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
RECENT TRENDS
22
revealed that.es of 1 June 1947 atileast 63. press com
panies hed concluded contracts with their employees' un-
ions.  The survey also revealed thet at: least 47 of these
contracts-had been concluded during or since October 1946.
REJECTION. OF EXTREMISM
The trend toward moderete:leadership and policies was
most sharply seen. in the story of the AJNRWU.  After the
failure of the.October strike, a national convention was
held on 22-24 October 1946. Delegetes of four 1ocal:63
presented a motion of non-confidence. in the leaders who
hed ealled the strike, and asked that "minority dictator-
ship" be rejected. and that the union be "reorganized along
democretic lines "64, After turbulent discussion, a cóm-
promise was effected under which the motion wes withdrawn
and the AJNRWU officials resigned. Takayuki KAyAZOE,
financial news editor of Jiji Press, was elected chairman.
His election was interpreted as a victory for moderates
in the union, and it was expected that his main efforts
would be directed toward consolidating the badly shaken
structure of the union.65
The national union next came into prominence in con-
nection with the plans for the 1 February 1947 general
strike projected by Government railway and office workers'
unions, components of the CIU.  Along with other affili-
ates of CIU, the AJNRWU central.committee called e sym-
pathy strike to coincide with the Government employees'
walkout. The decision was: adopted on 29 January by a vote
of 60-4.66 The attitude of the locals, insofar :as ascer-
63. Mainichi Shimbun, Hokkaido Shimbun, Chubu Nippon, Jiji,
Shimpa.-
64. Jij1 Press release, 22 October 1946.
65. Ibid., 25 October 1946: Other officers were drawn
from the Mainichi, BCJ, Asahi, Nishi Nippon Shim-
bun, and Tokyo: Shimbun
66. The four were Akita Sakigake Shimbun, Kahoku Shimpo,
Fujin Shimbun, and Gifu Times: Intervfew with
AJNRWU Chairman Takayuki KA: AZOE, 23: May 1947. It
is worth noting that the BCJ union had indicated
much earlier its intention to participate. Kyodo
release, 21 January 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S TR I C T E D
28
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
tained, was based not only on sympathy for the Government
workers' demands, but also on the practical basis thet pub-
lication would be next to impossible if communications and
transportation were stopped.67 Neither the Government wor-
kers' strike nor the sympathy strikes took place on 1 Feb-
ruary, because of SCAP intervention. The AJNRWU central
committee, however, did not rescind its strike call until
O010 hours on 1 February.68 Most locals already had de-
cided independently not to strike. Reviewing the event, a
meeting of the central committee on 9 February concluded
that "in the future there must be closer cooperation on all
matters between headquarters and union locals." The com-
mitteemen also saw signs of "inactivity" on the part of un-
ion members, and warned, "We must not look too much to
leadership which is likely to bring about a centralization.
There 1s a danger of creating union fascism, namely, the
despotism of a few of the leading staff."69
There is no doubt, however, that the performance of
the AJNRWU, as well as the prohibition of the general
strike itself, was an important factor in the subsequent
censure of 1ts leaders and policies. The first and strong-
est censure came from the Mainichi union.
As already described (p.27), the Mainichi union was
ready to lay a ney course after the resignation of its
leftist executive committee in March 1947. In proposing
a contract between the Mainichi manegement and the AJNRWU,
the committee had raised the question of the employees'
attitude toward the AJNRWU itself. Heated debate arose
during the 2l-22 March general meeting of the union's Tokyo
branch as to the AJNRWU and CIU--hether they were "under
serious influence of the Communist Party"; whether the
67. Interviews with Asahi Union Chairman Kyozo MORI: 19
May 1947; Nish1 Nippon Union Chairman Sadao YANO,
7 June 1947, et a1.
68. Interview with Asah1 Union Chairman MORI, a member of
the committee, 19 May 1947.
69. Shimbun no Shimbun (Newspapers' Newspaper), 15 Febru-
ary 1947. This 1s a generally reliable trace publi-
cation with a circulation of 8,000 every other day
to press personnel throughout Japan. It was inde-
.pendently established in 1924.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRIC TED
RECENT TRENDS
29
leaders had gone too far in the October strike and the at-
tempted February strike; whether the leaders "acted in de-
finance" of the general will of the members; whether pres-
ent AJNRWU policy "does not contradict with the employees'
loyalty toward the company and their spirit of improving
their own paper."70 A test vote came on the issue of type
of membership in the AJNRWU--individual (kojin kanyu) or
group (dantai kanyu).71 A majority (282-166) favored
changing the current individual form of membership to the
group form. This action amounted to a vote on-non-confi-
dence in the AJNRWU.
The next step in the new course was for the Mainichi
unien's three branches to send delegates to a meeting in
Osaka for the purpose of determining the attitude of the
Mainichi union as a whole. These delegates, representing
Mainichi at a regular national convention of the AJNR!U
In Osaka on 27 and 28 March, advanced a proposal that mem-
ber unions of the AJNRWU should be free to disassociate
themselves from the CIU. when the proposal was not ac-
cepted forthwith, the Mainichi delegates announced that
they had no alternative but withdrawal from the AJNRWU, a
step that automatically severed them also from CIU. Their
stand was ratified on 2 May by meetings in the branch of-
70. Memorandum from Ichitaro TAKATA, chief of Liaison De-
partment, 24 March 1947, on file in Press and Publi-
cations Únit, CIE, SCAP.
71. According to Article IV of its constitution, the
AJNRWU is based on individual members and not on lo-
cal branches (shibu). However, if an individual
newspaper union affiliates with AJNRWU, all of its
members become members of the national union. The
theory seems to be that group membership (i.e:,
local) protects the interests of the local more
than does individual membership. In other words
under the group membership system, the individual
becomes responsible to the leadership of his local
rather than to the leadership of the national union.
In practice, however, there seems to have been al-
most complete autonomy on the part of the individual
chapter. Thus, the October strike failed because in-
dividual chapters voted not to participate, despite
the orders of the national union to do so.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
30
LABOR ORGANIZATION JN THE PRESS AND RADIO
fices, the vote in the Tokyo branch being 237 to 94.72
Concurrently, a preparatory committee was electec to
launch a "new" independent union. It came into being on
14 May with Kikutaro IKEDA as chairman and a new consti-
tution and set of by-laws.73
Satisfaction with the course of events was expressed
by the Mainichi's management in an editorial in the Eng-
lish Mainichi, of 17 April, and a meeting of the board of
directors the next day. Withdrawal from the AJNRWU, said
the editorial, was an action "rooted in the deep convic-
tion of the Mainichi workers that membership in the AJNRWU
is a definite menace to a demonstration of the supreme
mission charged to the. democratic press and its workers."
The editorial criticized AJNRWU for despotic leadership
that had in October ougnt to transform the iejor union
"into a machine for olitical revolution." Or 18 April
(then) Representative Director Itsuo KANDA told other di-
rectors:
.....While newspapers have been suppressed in
Europe, many new papers have appeared in Japan
to promote the thorough democratization of the
country. From this point of view....to let the
labor movement have an unnecessarily great voice
in editorial, personnel and management rights
is a very deplorable matter. Under such condi-
tions, I am surprised that the newspapers have
not been ordered to cease publishing altcgether.
So I am very pleased that the Mainichi labor
union has decided to quit the AJNRU.74
Withdrawal of the Mainichi from the AJNRWJ might be
called the third serious blow the national union had suf-
fered. The first was the withdrawal of the Yomiuri union
in the summer of 1946, the second was the faiiure of the
October strike. Now the largest component chapters re-
maining were those of the Asahi and of the BCJ, with the
72. Letter from Ichitaro TAKATA, 4 April 1947, on file in
Press and Publications Unit, CIE, SCAP.
73. Jij1 Press release, 14 May 1947.
74. Shimbun no Shimbun, 25 Apr11 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
RECENT TRENDS
31
Asahi union the more important of the two in point of in-
fluence.
The future of the AJNRWU, therefore, depended in
large measure on the attitude of the Asahi union. At the
Qsake convention, Chairman MORI of the Asahi unfon had
criticized the lack of democratic practice In the AJNRWU;
nevertheless, the Mainichi's proposal that the press un-
ion split from the CIU came as a' complete surprise to him
and the rest of the delegates. MORI requested that the
Mainichi refrain from precipitate action until he could
consult the general will of the Asahi members.75 When the
question was put to vote at the convention, 45 delegates
went on record against the Mainichi's motion, and 95
favored postponing decision to the next national conven-
tion.76 The Mainichi delegates walked out, and the con
vention was "recessed" until the next session on 27 and 28
May in Tokyo. MORI called a general meeting of the Asah1
union for 9 and 10 May to decide on the question.
During the recess, events occurred both within the
Asahi and within the AJNRWU that further underscored the
trend toward the rejection of extremism. First, the with-
drawal of the Mainichi union started a chain of similar
actions on the part of smaller chapters. The Shin Osaka
union quit AJNRWU on 31 March, with the declaration that
it intended to "make a new'start in a genuine union move-
ment free from any political affiliations."77 Others
withdrawing were Akita Sakigake Shimpo (Akita) on 1 April;
Godo Shimbun (Okayama) on 12 Apr1l; Saga Shimbun (Saga) on
26 Apri1; and Kochi Shimbun (Kochi) on 8 May.
Second, and concurrently, there arose a demand that
the AJNRWU and the CIU "re-examine" -their leadership and
policies.
One token of the rank and file sentiment wes the
failure of Katsumi KIKUNAMI, chairman of the CIU and for-
mer chairman of the AJNRU, in his campaign for election
to the House of Councillors of the Japanese Diet. Al-
75. Interview with Kyozo MORI, 20 May 1947.
76. Kyodo release, 29. May. 1947.
77. Jij1 Press release, 31 March 1947:
RE S TRI C T E D

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
32
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
though his name was well known, and although he ran as
candidate from the national constituency, KIkUNAMI fir-
ished 104th among the group from which only 100 were to be
elected--for of a total of 250 members in the House of
Councillors, 150 stand for election from local regions,
and l00 are candidates at large (national constituency).
"Observers" cited by Jiji Press considered that KIKUNAlI
relied too heavily on support from members of the AJNR!U,
the majority of whom "appeared to have voted for othe
candidates of newspaper career."78
At any rate, on 6 May Chairman Takayuki KAWAZOE of
the AJNRWU formelly petitioned the CIU to call a general
meeting in order to "re-exemine its activities and pol).-
cies of the past and formulate new clear-cut policies to
clarify its stand in the eyes of the general pubiic."79
Executive officers of the CIU duly met and discussed the
adoption of a "new policy" designed to "eliminate domina-
The executives confessed to "over-emphasis on strike
strategy" and promised "far-reaching democratization" of
the CIU. Chief Organizer Tago KAMEDA admitted, among
other things, that CIU had "failed to make adeguate ef-
forts to negotiate with management" and that it had "given
its member unions little time to think before resorting t:o
strikes." KAWAZOE pointed out that "member unions must re
strengthened to cope with the critical economic situa-
tion.81
While the AJNiWU and CIU thus were maneuvering to
forestall disintegration,&2 the Asahi union itself was as-
78. Jiji Press release, 25 Apri1 1947.
79. Kyodo release, 7 May 1947. Other CIU components bring-
ing similar pressure in one way or another included
the All Japan Printing and Publishing Workers' Union,
Netional Federation of Coal Mine Workers' Unions,
and the General Federation of Government Railways Em-
ployees' Unions.
£0. Jiji Press release, also Kyodo release, 12 May 1947.
81. Ibid., 14 May 1947
82. Yomiuri commented on 14 May, "...the self-criticism
professed in this new move of CIU is merely a step
to check further secesrions of member unions and
does not touch upon any fundamentals...The only man-
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRIC TE D
RECENT TRENDS
33
sailed by Nagataka MURAYAMA, former president and one of
the biggest stockholders of the paper: On 3 May, MURAYAMA
made public a statement83 to the board of directors in
which he charged, "The whole Asahi organizetion is prao-
tically being dictated by a union dominated by a Communist
minority, which has gone to ludicrous extremes to distort
the paper's: conception of democracy."
He therefore made three requests of the directors:
1. .....To take immediate and appropriate steps to
have the Asahi employees' union secede not only
from the AJNRWU but also from the CIU of Japen,
both Communist dominated.
2. .....To rid the Asahi organization of Communists,
toteliterians,. and all other destructive ele-
ments which constitute a menace to a free press,
in order that the editorial policy of the Asahi
might become entirely free from influence or
dominetion by labor unions.
3. .....To put the management back on a reasonable
and finencially sound basis.
The statement was well timed for maximum effect. The
Asahi union had been pondering its attitude toward the
AJNR!!U and was on the point of adopting a formal decision.
Its decision undoubtedly would determine the prospects of
the AJNRWU.
The reaction to the statement, however, was not all
that MUFAYAMA probably had hoped. Four of the six direc-
tors described MURAYAMA's assertions as "absurd" and "en-
tirely contrary to fact."84 . Chairman MORI said his un-
83. On file in Informetion Media Research Unit, CIE, SCAP.
84. Stars and Stripes, 5 May 1947, UP.report.
ner in which CIU can liquidate 1ts past errors is
to dissolve altogether the dual nature of the CIU,
which is part labor union and part Communist poli-
tical arm, and have each of its member unions start
anew independently."
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
34
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
ion was prepared to refute all of the allegations, adding,
"Mr. MUhAYAMA is attempting to force us to adopt the kind
of political philosophy which he believes in... Such an et-
tempt should be rejected, as any attempts by a minority
group of the workers to take over control of any lebor or-
ganization."85 According to MORI,86 MURAYAMA's statement
angered rather than cowed. the union membership.
At the 9-1o May general meeting, MORI counseled against
hasty decisions; he apparently f ared that indignetion
against MUfaYAMA might strengthen the left wing of the un-
ion. The main decisions of the meeting were to favor the
severance of the AJNRWU from CIU, and to uphold the current
individual membership system of tl.e AJNRWU.
Meanwhile both MORI and members of the directorate
sought to disabuse MURAYAMA of what they held to be the "mis-
informetion" that had guided his action.87 On 10 May, an
agreement was signed between MURAYAMA and HAsEBE that
brought the episode to a quiet conclusion. Briefly, MURA-
YAMA withdrew his allegations that the "Communist-domina-
ted union" controlled the newspaper; the directors took
responsibility for editorial "mistakes" and pledged to main-
tain a "strictly neutral" editorial policy free from inter-
ference; and MURAYAMA voiccd his full support of the pres-
ent board of directors.88
The net result of the episode was, if anything, to
leave the union where it was before. Apparently the un-
ion•s decision to recommend AJIRWU severance from CIU meε
its own and not the result of HUiAYAllA's pressure.
85. Kyodo release, 7 May 1947.
86. Interview 20 May 1947.
87. MORI stated that he called on MURAYAMA to explein the
orgenization of operations of the union, and to rec-
tify MURAYAMA's misunderstendings. MURAYAMA accep-
ted the explanations and seid he was "sorry," ac-
cording to MORI. Intervfew 20 May 1947. HASEBE es
well as MORI believes MURAY/MA was acting on the
basis of misinformation supplied by some interested
party. Interview 13 June 1947.
88. Interview with HASEBE, 13 June 1947.
R E S T F I C T E D

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
R·E S T· R I· C T E D
RECENT TRENDS
35
The announced "self-reflection" policy of the CIU did
not check the ebb of AJNRWU strength. A spokesman of the
Asahi union made 1t clear on 13 May that his organization
would not change its stand. The Asahi union desired, he
said, to form a "united labor front for newspaper workers,"
including those of the Yomiur1 and Mainichi, and. the in-
eviteble first step must be separatlon of the AJNk U from
CIU.89 On the eve of the resumption of the AJNRTU con-
vention, the union of the Chugoku Shimbun (Hiroshima) an-
nounced that it, like the Asahi unlon, favored AJNRWU with-
drawal and individual membership.90 Three more: press un-
1ons mede public on 26 Mey their decision to withdraw from
the CIU but not from the AJNRVU. These were Jiji Shimpo
of Tokyo, and Shinshu Mainichi and Yukan Shinshu of Nagano.
The Kyodo News Agency union, however, voted to remain a
member of CIU if the latter changed its attitude and poli-
cies; also to urge AJNhWU to establish a special orgen "to
work for the unification of the entire labor front."91
When the AJNRVWU netional convention resumed in. Tokyo
on 27 May, therefore, chairman KAAZOE reported that mem-
bership had fallen in the two months since the Osaka con-
vention from 72 locals with 31,695 members to 67 locals
with 26,497 members. Only one union--the 65-member organi-
zation of the Fukushima Minyu Shimbun--had Joined during
the period.92 Under the circumstances, KArAZOE and other
executives tendered their resignetions.
Debete centered on two proposals: one for the dele-
tion of Article 1 of the AJNRWU constitution that stipu-
lated affiliation with CIU; and one for revision of Arti-
cle 6 to establish membership on a collective instead of
an individual basis. On the former question, debate was
hot and lines were sharply drawn. . Those favoring deletion
of Article 1 were led by the Asahi delegetes,93: and those
89. Jij1 Press releese, 13 May 1947.
90. Ibid., 21.May 1947.
91. Kyodo release, 27 May .1947.
92. Jiji Press release, 27 May 1947.
93. Chubu Nippon (Nagoya), Chugoku Shimbun (Hiroshime),
Hokkeido Shimbun, Nishi Nippon Shimbun (Fukuoka),
Chukyo Shimbun (Nagoya), Jij1 Shimpo (Tokyo), Shizu-
oka Shimbun, and Kyushu Times (Fukuoka).
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
36
LABOR ORCANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
opposing were led by the BCJ delegates.94
MORI, for the Asahi union, argued that the common in-
terests of press employees roquired a common front; such a
common front would be impossible without perticipation of
the Yomiuri and Mainichi unions and others that objected to
AJNRWU because of its affiliition with CIU; and to maintain
CIU affiliation only would d ive 1ts leadership more to the
left.
BCJ delegates held thet CIU's "self-criticism" should
be eccepted at face value; tlst withdrawal from CIU only
would further weaken both CIl and AJNR"U by promoting fur-
ther withdrawals; and that CIU and AJNRWU "must be defend-
ed."95
Finelly the two sides were able to agree on a proposal
advanced by e Nihon Keizai Shimbun celegate. The perties,
he suggested, differed only in strategy for achieving a
united labor front of press employees.96 After confirming
its policy for e united front, the convention made the fol-
lowing decisions:
1. To delete the se: tence in irticle 1 stating that
"AJNRlU shall be a member of the CI." (Passed unanimous-
1y.)
2. To remain a member of the CIU. (By a vote of 274-
157.)
3. To establish a "labor front unification council"
for the purpose of establishing a common front among all
press unions, both within and without the AJNRWU. (Passed
unanimously.397
94. Kyodo News Agency, Tokyo Shimbun, Gifu Times, Hokkaido
Mainichi (Kanazawa), J(mo Shimbun (Maebashi), Yama-
pata Shinbun, Shin Iwate (Morioka), and Shikoku Shim-
bun (Tekanatsu). Source: Yomiuri Shimbun, 28 May 1947.
95. Jiji Press release, 27 and 28 May 1947.
96. Ibid.; 28 May 1947.
97. Kyodo release, 29 May 1947. These resolutions hed been
advanced by Kyodo News hgency delegates. Jiji Press
release 29 May added that this resolution contained
a provision that AJNRWU would be prepared to break
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
RE S T RI C TE D
32
RECENT TRENDS
Thus the convention struck a compromise intended pri-
marily to boister the waning strength of the AJNRWU. Al
though the nationel press union did not withdraw from CIU,
its chapters were free to do so without quitting the
AJNRWU. Furthermore, efforts would be made to bring un-
1ons like those in the Yomiuri and Mainichi back into the
AJNRWU.
On the membership issue, the convention accepted
Asahi proposals intended to give individual chepters greater
Independence. Although individual membership was con-
tinued in principle, the "autonomy of each local" was to
be recognized. This seemed to mean that each chapter would
be entitled to act as a unit, although its members might
be, individually, members of the AJNRWU and theoretically
subject to its decisions--& confirmation of existing prac-
tice.98
Another Asahi proposal stipulated that each local.
should have power to recall its delegates to the AJNRWU
central committee and executive committee.99
These proposals were to be formally advanced in the
next AJNRWU convention scheduled for October 1947.
Finally, the convention elected new officers. KAWAZOE
was continued as chairman, and Asahi and BCJ men were given
vice-chairmanships.100
The results of the convention indicated that the dele-
getes compromised to pre'serve the unity of the AJNR"U at
98. Interview with Shichiro MORIOKA, accountant-euditor
end information officer, AJNR!/U, 19 June 1947.
99. Cheirmen MORI of the Asahi union pointed out that
celegates had tended to fall out of line with opin-
ion in the organizations they were supposed to
represent. Interview 19 May.1947.
100. Vice-chairmen: Shonosuke SUENAGA (Asah1), Hideo ARA-
KAWA (Jij1 Shimpo), Kazuo OTSUKI (BCJ). Secretery-
general: Shichiro MORIOKA (Nishi Nippon). Jiji
Press releese, 29 May 1947.
with CIU "if necessary," a provision to vhich BCJ
delegates objected strenuously.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
38
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
the expense of the CIU; and they compromised to preserve
the unity of their chapters at the expense of the AJNRWU.
Although AJNRWU remained affiliated, individual chapters
could sever their affilietion through AJNi"U with CIU.
The autonomy of the chapters was recognized, end the
AJNRWU thus took a step towerd recornizing its actual fcrm
as a federation of press unions rether than a unitary in-
dustriel union. Moreover, thc pove toward rapprochement
with the non-member press unions sugrested & willingness
to seek the lowest common denominstor of interests and
policies for the sake of some kind of a united front.
The alternatives to the conv ntion's compromise well
might have been the loss of any senolance of common front
both on the national scale and on the chapter scele. A
vote either to stay with or to secede from the CIu might
have split the convention and also split the individual
chapters.
As it is, there are evidences that the unity is none
too strong. During the convention, the Asahi delegates
served notice that their chepter might in the future se-
cede not only from CIU but also from .JNR!U.
"However," the delegate promised, "any such action
will be teken at a general meeting of the AJNRWU."1O1
According to Ishimatsu OBOSHI, chairmen of the Kyodo
union, the convention's decision to establish a labor
front unification council wes 70 percent motivated by the
desire to bring the Yomiuri and Mainichi unions beck into
the fold; this and the decision on CIU affilietion were
compromises to avoid splitting the Asehi union.102
Early reactions to the AJNR!U cctions were not def1-
nite. Up to the end of June 19:6, no further press un-
ions were reported to have severed connections with either
the AJNRWU or with the CIU. On the other hand, there was
little evidence of progress in the direction of e common
front. The projected unificetion council wes set up with
101. Kyodo release, 29 May 1947.
102. Interview 31 May 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S TR I CTE D
RECENT TRENDS
39
MORI of the Asahi as chairmanlO3 and a hend-picked roster
of members.104
Qne clue to the attitude of the Yomiuri unlon might
be seen in the Yomiuri's editorial for 30 May,105 which
expressed. regret that the.AJNRWU hed not quit the CIU el-
together:
In establishing a council to unify its labor
front, the AJNRWU has stipulated that it would
secede from the CIU.if necessary. However, if
the union refuses to make an exhaustive study of
its own organization, it would still be diffi-
cult immediately to unify the labor front.in co-
operation with Communist-dominated unions, even
though they carry out their condition of seceding
from the CIU.
Nothing was heard from the Mainiohi union, and the
AJNRWU. made no public reports of the progress of:its pro-
gram.
THE BCJ--AN EXCEPTION?
Developments in the BCJ since the end of the radio
strike in October 1946 suggest that the broadcasting em-
ployees' union has lagged behind .most press'unfons in pro-
gress toward working relationships and in the rejection
of extremism. During the last three months of 1946, the
BCJ was preoccupied with a personnel dispute.106 In the
103. Jij1 Press release, 29 May 1947.
l04. liembers include OBóSHI of Kyodo, and representetives
of the unions in Jiji Shimpo, Nihon Keizai Shim-
bun, Tokyo Shimbun, BcJ, and of the unions In
eight leading provincial pepers. Most of them
were recommended by MORI to the AJNRWU central com-
mittee. Interview with Kyozo MORI, 27 June 1947.
105. Since the formation of the independent union, there
has been no evidence to suggest that the mejority
of the employees do not agree with the menegement
on attitudes toward AJNR!TU. and CIU.
106. Fectual material on this topic supplied by Redio
Unit, GIE, SCAP, except where otherwise noted.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
R ES T RI C T E D
40
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
course of the radio strike, which ended in October, nine
section and sub-section chiefs (bukacho) hed refused to
cooperate in the limited broedcesting schedule that was
carried out under State control. All of the colleegues in
the Bukecho Kai, an associetion independent of the BCJ un-
ion, hed obeyed the 5 October.order of President Iwesaburo
TAkANo to go to work under State management. Immediately
after the strike ended, TAkANO suspended the nine chiefs.
The union pointed out that on 25 October TAKANO had reached
en informai understanding with the strikers thet there
would be no discherges or personnel chenges as a result
of the strike. Both the union and the Redio Advisory Com-
mitteel07 sought to obtain the reinstetement of the nine
chiefs. The management's ection was besed on the necessi-
ty of disciplining the men concerned.108
..."e intenddto exemine the conduct of these
nine chiefs while they were occupying their
posts as chiefs and not es members of the un-
ion. : In other words, this metter is being taken
up as an absolute necessity in order to.reestab-
lish the discipline within the BCJ.109
Unable to deter the management from some disciplinery
action, the union and the advisory committee argued that
the nine should be reinsteted as ordinary staff members.
Eventually, the union appealed the case to the Tokyo Dis-
trict Labor Relations Committee. On 29 December, this com-
mittee arrived at the decision thet the nine men should be
reinsteted as ordinary staff members, and the decision was
accepted by both parties.
Immedietely a new question arose. Reorgenizetion of
the BCJ Program Department (hensei kyoku) had been under-
taken eerlier, in June 1946. This partial reorgenization
107. A. committee appointed by the Minister of Communica-
tions early in the Occupation to furnish advice on
personnel policy. Files of Radio Unit, CIE, SCAP.
108. Technically, the men were suspended pending action
by a disciplinary committee appointed by TAYANO
without consulting the union.
109. Memorandum from Tetsuro FURUKAKI, generel meneging
director of BCJ, 19 November 1946.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
R.E S T R I C T E D
RECENT TRENDS
did not achieve the desired results, and adoption of an.
more thorough plan was held up by the radio strike and the
discipline question. The new plan was approved by the BCJ
Board of Directors in Januery 1947,110 and practical im-
plementation became possible by the end of February. Ap-
prised of the plan shortly before the intended effectivi-
zation date of 1 March, the union balked. It then ad-
vanced its own ideas for the personnel changes involved,
including.section and division ohiefs (throe in the news
section). The union also sought from management some form
of recognition of its ight to participate in personnel
affeirs. At the same time, there remeined the unfinished
business of a contract, and of wages and special allow-
ances.
On 3 March 1947, the uniqn issued "Directive No. 6"
instructing members to disobey orders putting the reorgani-
zetion plen into effect. When President Iwaseburo TAKANo
of BCJ attempted to address the employees over BCJ fecili-
ties, the union issued "Directive No. 7," undor which un-
ioh members pulled the Jacks and left TAkANO before a dead
microphone. These actions raised the question of the
relative authority of the union and of the manegement in
respect to personnel questions, and the matter was submit-
ted to the Central Lubor Relations Committee (CLRC).
On 5 April, the CLRC advenced a conciliation plan.11l
The union was to lift "Directive No. 6," and management was
to give due weight to union representations. lthough the
CLRC draft specified that "supreme power over the business
110. In brief, funotional sections of the Program Depert-
ment were to be realigned. The sections hed Cone
their own planning, performer recruiting, end pro-
duction. The new plen provided for planning, pro-
duction and news sections, esch of which was to heve
complementary and non-competing functions in the
business of broadcasting, In most cases, the men
concerned would continue in the same work; in 24
cases, however, the new plan called for whet
amounted to changes of function.
111. By agreement. the CLkc concentrated on the personnel
question, ietting eside contract end pey questions
for later liscussion.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRIC TED
42
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
operations and personnel metters rests with.the President,"
it proposed that proper organs should be set up to eneble
employees to perticipate in management, to consult in
personnel matters., and to enable employee opinion to be
heard in personnef metters, and to meke possible solution
of employee complaints. This proposal was rejected on
7 April by the union's executive committee, 20-4.112
Next dey, the CLRC offered enother conciliation pro-
posal providing that the personnel changes under discussion
should be effectueted only "efter sincere deliberetion of
the union proposel on the conduct of personnel affeirs and
after meking prompt revision of the pointe of the BCJ plan
not considered rational." This the union accepted anc the
management rejected. A third CLiC conciliation prop sol
was rejected by both parties.
A new approach, therefore, ves indiceted. At the un-
ion's suggestion, with the management's consent, the CLEC
directed its efforts toward the conclusion of a contract,
the provisions of which would include e settlement of the
personnel question. At the end of June, the parties hed
not yet been able to agrec on ε dreft. The chicf points
of difference were three.
First, the union wanted to include as members all e-
ployees up to department chiefs. Manegement favored the
exclusion from union membership of all executive personnel
--depertment, section, and civisien (or sub-section)
chiefs.113
112. Kanto District brench members of the union voted.527-
506 to accept the plan, but the executive committee
rebutted that the Tohoku, Kwansai, Chugoku end Shi-
koku branches voted ageinst it. Files of Rcđio Unit,
CIE, SCAP.
113. Of the 356 department, section and division chiefs,
union officiels contended that the majority of the
210 division chiefs feel their interests to be closer
to those of the union than the menegement. Such
personnel, the union argucd, whould have the right
to join the union if they desire. Interview with
Yoshio MATSUBARA, chairman, and Tadao KUNIEDA, men-.
ber of BCJ union executive committee, 3 July 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
RECENT TRENDS
43
Second, the two disegreed on the form and functions
of the proposed management council. The union wanted a
council not only for the BCJ as a whole, but also for each
department end section, with a labor majority on each
panel, and with authority to deal not only with policy
matters but also with day-to-dey operations. Menagement
preferred one over-all council composed of equal numbers
of representetives with authority to hendle only the rou-
tine iebor-menegement issues.
Third, the union wished to be able to admit to mem-
bership persons not employed by BCJ, a stipuletion which
the management firmly opposed.
Agreement had been resched as of 21 July 1947 on the
first of the three points of contention.ll4 Menegement
succeeded in limiting union membership to a level below
chiefs of divisions.
A compromise εlso had been reached on the second of
the points in issue, the form and function of management
councils. This would result in the formetion of nine
labor-menagement councils and a number of technicel com-
mittees, one in each depertment, section end division.
The nine councils would consist of e Joint Council of
Manegement in the Tokyo office, seven similar councils in
each of the principal district stations, end a Central
Committee on Personnel Matters. Eech joint council would
heve manegement and labor equally represented, end could
meke recommendations to the chief executive (and, in the
cese of the district stetions, to the centrel headquarters)
on any matters of general policy, with the specific excep-
tion of personnel problems, In the latter, decisions
would be mede by the management, and employees not satis-
fied then might consult the Committee on Personnel Metters,
which would be authorized to meke recommendations to the
BCJ's executives. The menagement-labor representation
ratio of the Personnel Committee hed not been determined.
The Technical Committees, of which there would be approxi-
metely 350 (see footnote #1:3), might offer opinion and
114. Information conce"ning the progress of BCJ contract
negotiations to 21 Juiy 14? was secured in an in-
terview with BCJ general menager FURUKAKI on thet
dete.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.97)
R E S T R I C T E D
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
advice on any technical metters such as progremming, mein-
tenence of equipment, etc.
The third point of contention,.union membership for
non-BCJ employees, remeins unresolved, and as yet (20 Au-
gust 1947) no actual contract hès been signed embodying
the agreements described above.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.97)
RE S TR IC TE D
Chepter 4.
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON PRESS UNTONS
Japan's press unions range from the 5,815-member or-
genizetion in the Asahi to the 65-member organizetion in
the Yuken Kyoto. Generel observations are difficult, be-
cause every case is different; but it eppears that in.
generel the larger unions have the greetest substance and
understanding of their function. The unions of the Asahi,
Meinichi, and Yomiuri, like the pepers themselves, are in
a separate class in respect to size, influerce, and degree
of orgenizetion.115 A second level of unions might be
considered to include those in the 500-1,500 member cate-
gory as in the Kyodo News Agency; Jiji Press; Tokyo Shim-
bun, Nippon Keizai, Jiji Shimpo; and in the leeding pro-
vincial papers--Chubu Nippon (Negoya), Hokkaido Shimbun,
and Nishi Nippon Shimbun (Fukuoka) and Kahoku Shimbun
(Sendai).
The remeinder, in generel, do not eppeer to pley en
importent role either within their own compenies or in
the AJNRWU. In older papers, Tike the Kobe Shimbun, re-
letionships tend to be vell-esteblished; in post surrender
pepers, like Miyako Shimbun (Kyoto), the staffs are likely
to be too small and too much engrossed in meking their
venture succeed to provide fruitful soil for the union
menegement.
The following observations, therefore, apply chiefly
to those unions with more then 500 members,
SALIENT ORGANIZATIONAL FEATURES
The most striking aspect of press union.orgenizetion
in Japan is that it takes   naustrial, or verticel
115. Mainichi union memoership: 5,221, Yomiur1: 2,045.
The BCJ union also falls in this clase, with 7,014.
Figures es of May 1947.
F E S T R T C T E D
-45-

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
46
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
form. Members, in most cases, include everybody regulerly
employed from errand boy to department chiefs.
But the trend is to exclude persons in executive posi-
tions from union membership. For example, the Kyodo union
originelly included everybocy except the maneging director;
In the reorganization of the Meinichi union that followed
1ts secession from the AJNRr:U, depertment chiefs and chief
editors were mede ineligible for membership.117 The union
of the Nishi Nippon Shimbun (Fukuoka), at the suggestion
of the Fukuoka Prefectural Labor Reletions Committee, last
fall limited its membership to those below the rank of sub-
section chief.118
The chief recson given by union representatives for
such limitation is thet persons in executive positions ere
too close to manegement. Manegement spokesmen, on the other
hand, seid thet they desire to keep union influence out of
their councils. A survey conducted by the Japen Newspeper
Association in June 1947 (see pege 26; footnote 62) showed
membership limitetions in 89 press unions .es follows:
No regulation
2
President endvice-president
2
Directors end above
28
Department chiefs and above.
26
Depertment vice-chiefs and ebove
8
Section chiefs and above
12
Section vice-chiefs end above
1
Sub-section chiefs and ebove
2
Sub-section vice-chiefs and above
1
Several of the above hed edditional special exceptions.
In addition, four press unions hed selective limitetions,
ll6. Managing director, chief editor, three executive edi-
tors, treffic and business manegers, and six bureau
menegers. Interview with Meneging Éditor Masuo KATo,
31 May 1947 and Union Chairmen Ishimatsu OBOSHI, 31
Mey 1947.
117. Interview with Liaison Depertment Chief Johitaro TAkATA
end Union Official Yoshio MIYAMOTO, 16 May 1947.
118. Interview with Union Chairman Sadeo YANO, 7 June 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON PRESS UNIONS
47
and three did not reply. As might be expected, stricter
limitations were found in larger press unions.
With the vertical form of orgenizetion, however, the
unions tend to operate disjointedly--that is, by groups
of members in the departments, sections, or sub-sections
in which they are located functionally. In the big three
and the BCJ, general meetings of the entire membership are
virtuelly impossible, and in the middle strεta of unions
they ere difficult.119
Therefore the theory and practice of representation
assume considerable importance. To teke probebly the
most refined exemple--the Asahi--the closest represente-
tion is found in the generel assembly of eech brench,120
where each delepate represents five union members. Since
the delegate is selected by colleagues in his functional
unit of the newspaper, emphasis is placed upon the in-
terests and attitudes of the employees in terms of their
functionel location in the compeny. This proportional
representstion of the verious units of the company's 'or-
ganization is carried up into the brench committee, where
each delegete represents 25 members; into the general
assembly of the entire Asahi union, where each delegete
represents 30 members; and into the centrel committee,
where each represents 300 members.121 The executive
mechinery, consisting of branch executive committees and
a central executive committee, does not carry functionel
representation to the same degree as does the "legislstive"
machinery, but does have the tendency. As & result, the
entire Asahi union, like other press unions, tends to be
divided into threc mein groups--editorial, business, and
mechenical employees.
119. Generel meetings of the Tokyo branch of the Mainichi
union are made up of the 400-500 members who can
crowd into the newspaper's assembly hall. . "We
would have to rent Hibiya Hall for a true general
meeting." Interview with TAKATA and MIYAMOTO.
120. Asehi union constitution, Article 21. There are
three branches--Tokyo (2,335), Osaka (2,350), end
Moji (1,130). Interview with union chairmen,
Kyozo MÓRI, 19 Mey 1947.
121. Asahi union constitution, Articles 22, 13, and 14
respectively.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
48
LABOF ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
In generel terms, the business employees are the con-
servetives emong union members, wherees the editoriel end
mechenical depertments include personnel whose attitudes
range from conservgtive through indifference to leftist.
Representetive Director HisEBE of the Asahi estimeted thet
leftist elements may influence up to one third of the en-
tire steff, depending on the specific issue at hend.122
When the Asehi union voted ageinst participetion in the
October 1946 press and redio strike, he pointed out, rough-
ly one third of the membership held out for the strike.
This èlement, in HASEBE's observetion, falls into three
categories: the ideologicelly motivated, the melcontents,
and the economicelly depressed. On the issue of pertici-
pation in the 1 Februery strike, according to Union Cheir-
man MORI, the initial decision in fevor of the strike vas
adopted by vote of (very roughly) the editorial and me-
chanicel employees egainst the business employees.123 In
the Mainichi, active leftists were estimetedl24 to number
epproximetely lo0, most of whom were in the editorial de-
pertment. In the Nihon Keizai Shimbun,125 the union's
extremist leadership came from & member of the mechenicel
department and e reporter, with the support of some 35
men, most of whom were mechanicel employees.
THE·AJNRWU AND ITS LOCALS
The most notable fact ebout the netional union is the
degrec to which it has not represented its locals, even
elthough all the requisite machinery is provided.126 The
122. Interview, 13 June 1947.
123. Interview, 19 May.1947.
124. Chief of Lieison Depertment Iehitaro TAKATA and Union
Offic1al Yoshio MIYAlOTO, interview 16 Mey 1947.
125. According to President Ritoku OBAMA, interview 27 May
1947.
126. Generel meeting convened et leest once a yeer, with
each delegate representing 50 members; centrel com-
mittee convened at -least every two months, cech dele-
gate representing 250 members; central executive com-
mittee convened when necessery, composed of 15 mem-
bers plus national officers elected for one-yetr
term by generel meeting. AJNRWU constitution, Chap-
ter VI, sections 1, 2, 3, respectively.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
SOME OBSERV.TIONS ON PRESS UNIONS
49
best proof, of course, lies in the tardiness of the netion-
al union in reversing its strike calls in October 1946 end
February 1947.
This phenomenon has given rise to two sets of com-
plaints that epitomize the two mein attitudes towerd the
union on the pert of its members. One is thet the na-
tionel union is undemocratic; the other is that the locals
are too weak. In general terms, those who hold the for-
mer view have been seeking to make the netionel union
more representetive of its locals; those who hold the lat-
ter view heve been seeking to strengthen the authority of
the netional union over its locels.
The conflict between the two attitudes wes clearly
evident in the events and issues described in Chepter TII,
"Rejection of Extremism"--events thet demonstrete the
present trend towerd escendancy of the first attitude. It
1s worth noting thet AJNRWU leaders ceme to the 27-28 May
1946 general meeting ermed with proposals for a revision
of the nationel union's constitution thet, if adopted,
would heve operated to bolster the strength of the netion-
al organization at the expense of the locels. The pro-
posals envisaged the creetion of a series of councils em-
bracing horizontal strata of union members--regional coun-
cils, and councils of youth and women workers and of
mechanical workers. In each cese, the stated purpose was
to "protest the common interests"'of the members concerned.
The councils would heve been empowered to convene generel
meetings of their members, but any decisions on "important
subjects" would have required approval of the AJNRWU cen-
trel executive committee.127 These proposels, alonf with
those of opposite tenor advanced by the Asehi delegete
(see pege 37), were postponed for formal deliberation εt
the next generel meeting.
Another facet of the AJNRWU organizational plan hes
been the conclusion of contracts not only between menege-
ment and union in any one enterprise, but also between
management and the AJNRWU itself. It already has been
noted (pege 23) that the Meinichi union rejected such a
supplementery contract. As of May 1946, the AJNRyU hed
127. Draft for revised constitution, Chapter VI, sections
3, 4, 5. Supplied by AJNRWU headquarters, 22 May
1947.
F E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R T C T E D
50
LABOR ORGANJZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
contracts with 18 newspaper firms.128 These contrects ere
couched in general terms. The Asahi-AJNRU contrect129 in-
cludes standerd provisions intended to essure union and job
security, end in addition specifics thet the Asahi "shell
recognize the freedom of union members to join politicel
parties, engege in politicel activities, or hold public
office." An attached understanding, however, sanctions the
trensfer (ido) of an employee who engeges in such ectivi-
ties to the "serious detriment" (hana-hada-shiku shisho) of
his newspeper duties. Ceses of disegreement are to be set-
tled by collective bergaining. It mey be noted, however,
thet the Asehi union on 12 Merch 1947 favored the tempor-
ery suspension from duty of union members who run for pub-
lic office.130
The point on hich the two attitudes towerd the AJ!?"U
seem to agree is the necessity of preserving the organize-
tion. Those who want to strengthen the netional union's
authority and to keep it tieu with the CIU well may heve
been besting & stretegic retrert during April end Mey 1947.
It would be netural to expect thet redicals would hope to
preserve as much as possible of the machinery through which
they could try in future to reelize their purpose. On the
other hend, those who aspire to unite ell press unions in
a common organizetion, even at the expense of the CTU end
of the original conception of the AJNRWU, profess to be
motivated by legitimete lebor concerns. Cheirmon MORI of
the Aschi union, hes pointed cut that individuel press un-
ions mey not be able to continue to secure their members'
128. Asahi, Chugoku Shimbun (Hiroshima); Gifu Times, Hyuge
Nichinichi (Miyazaki), Ise Shimbun (Tsu), Inate Shim-
po (Mor1oke), Jiji Press, Jimmin Shimbun (Tokyo)
Jomo Shimbun (Meebashi), Koryo Shimbun (Tokyo), Mim-
po (Tokyo), Nishi Nippon Shimbun (Fukuoka), Shimo-
zuke Shimbun (Utsunomiye), Shin Yukan (Tokyo),
Shinano Meinichi (Negano), Too Nippo (Aomori), Yema-
gata Shimbun, and Yuken Mie (Yokkeichi). Such con-
trects also had been concluded with Kochi Shimbun
and Akita Sakigake Shimbun, which withdrew from the
AJNRWU. Interview with Shichiro MORIOKA, AJNR"U
accountant-auditor and informetion officer, 22 Mey
1947.
129. Appendix I.
130. Shimbun Kyokai-ho, 24 March 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
51
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON PRESS UNIONS
welfare as they have done so far. Press manegements, in
his view, are united in the Japen Newspaper Association:
they are bound to join in an effort to keep payrolls down
and to decrease their staffs. Therefore he considers it
essential to meet the managers with a united front on
crucial issues.131
There appear to be serious obstaales to the meteria-
lization of any kind of a united labor organizetion among
press employees, let elone the soundest and most legiti-
mate kind. First, there is the incompatibility, most evi-
dent in smaller enterprises, between the union concept
and the traditional personal relationships of superiors
and inferiors. Second. and complementarily, there is the
tradition of paternalism, under which a man who once got
on the peyroll could pretty well count on the employer
permanently to assume responsibility for him. This fector
is probably stronger in the smeller papers. The Kobe Shim-
bun is a cese in point. There a union was orgenized on
1 Jenuary 1946, "not for the purpose of working against the
manegement," according to its chairman, "but because other
newspaper companies had unions and the Kobe Shimbun em-
ployees wented one too."132 Actually, as the newspaper's
president pointed out, some provision for the welfare of
the employees had been mede already with the institution
of a Mutual Assistance Association (gojokei). The presi-
dent also steted thet his advice usually preveils in un-
ion councils.133
Third, there is evidence of appreciation among press
employees thet. they cannot benefit in the long run by
forcing their employers into bankruptcy. This sentiment
was encountered at nearly every interview. Some executives
--in the Asahi, Yomiru1, and Kyodo News Agency, for ex-
ample--meke it a practice either to give union representa-
tives sight of the compeny's books or to keep them informed
in some detail on its financial stetus.
Fourth, the press is still fundamentally a competitive
industry, even though paper retioning et present makes
competition nominal. An employee, therefore, hends an ed-
ventege to his rivals when he strikes his own shop without
131. Interview, 27 June 1947.
132. Interview with Union Chairman Mokichi SENDA, 4 June
1947.
133. Interview with President Shido ASAKURA, 4 June 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
52LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
improving the ebility of his own company to meet his re-
quests. This observation does not apply to the employees
of the monopoly BCJ, whose intransigence undoubtedly is
augmented by the very importance of their function during
this period of paper famine.
Finally, there is the difference in attitudes among
the employees themselves, a subject that already hes been
touched upon.
CHIEF UNION-MANAGEMENT ISSUES
The chief questions at issue between press unions and
managements eppeer to be the standard questions of wages,
workine conditions, and job security. These questions well
may prove more and more difficult to resolve until Jepan's
overall economic conditions improve, for they are enmeshed
with infletion, the newsprint shortege, and the surplus of
manpower. Infietion drives salaried men to seek more pay
and benefits; the newsprint shortege mekes it difficult for
management to justify the employment of normal staffs, let
alone former employees repetrieted since the surrender; and
the surplus of menpower makes unions and manegements alike
reluctant to retionalize staff to needs. Therefore, man-
agements have in general conceded union wage demands, re-
tained unnecessarily large steffs, and soucht relief in in-
creased subscription prices, in side-line ectivities, end
in bank loans.
There is no law that forbids the discharge of surplus
personnel.134 It would undoubtedly be difficult to obtain
union consent to a lerge-scale lay-off plan.135 However,
134. Article ii of the Trade Union Law of 21 December 1945
forbids the employers to "discharge or give dis-
criminatory treatment to & worker for his being a
member of a trade union, for having tried to form
or join a trade union, or for having performed proper
acts of a trade union." This would enjoin discherpes
that aimed to break a union.
135. Most union contrects contain a clause specifying thet
the union shall be consulted in regard to hiring,
firing, rewards, and punishment.
F E S TR T C T E D

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T·R I C T E D
SO!E OBSERVATIONS ON PRESS UNIONS
there appears to be little desire to pere down excessive
staffs. A characteristic attitude was voiced by Masaharu
NAGATA, representative director of the Mainichi, when he
declared that menagements feel a responsibility for em-
ployees; they are reluctant to discharge surplus personnel
because of the lack of adequete Japanese Government pro-
grems for the support of the unemployed. Under the cir-
cumstances, he added, there might be reeson.to fear thet
As for union wage demands, resentment on the pert of
menagement appears to heve been limited to clearly exces-
sive proposals. Some persons interviewed asserted thet
the increeses granted at union behest would have been
forthcoming whether or not a. union existed. "If the un-
ion wants to think it won its requests," commented one,
"well, let it. think so."137.
Apart from large-scale discharges, a question thet
has not yet come up, most personnel matters appear to re-
ceive fairly routine hendling. There have been some com-
plaints of unreesonable union opposition to transfers pro-
jected by menagement. The major instance 1s the BCJ,
where a functional realignment has been under debate since
the beginning of March (see Chapter 3, "The BCJ-an Excep-
tion"). In mid-Mey, the management of the Mainichi effec-
ted personnel shifts that involved some 40 men in the edi-
torial department of the Tokyo office. A dozen of these
men were put on inactive stetus.. The trensfers relegated
to innocuous positions personnel believed to be ideologi-
cally unsuitable for responsible posts:138 The action
was debated in union councils, where some members ob-
jected that the company had acted "under the pretext of
establishing editoriel rights" against men who had been
"very feithful to the workers' union movement."139 The
majority, however, approved the action.
136. Tnterview, 23 Mey 1947.
137. Masuo KATó, managing editor of Kyodo News Agency,
interview 28 May 1947.
138. Interview with Maneging Editor Meseheru' NAGATA,
23 Mey 1947.
139. Shimbun no Shimbun,. 23 Mey 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
F E S T R I C T E D
54
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
It εppears, then, thet press employees' unions heve
made progress toward sound and &:cepted practices of pro-
tecting and advancing the interests of their members in
accordance with besic Occupetion policy.
There remeins the question of union activities that
go beyond the besic interests of wages, working conditions,
and job security. Contrects commonly include a declara-
tion of purpose to "democratize" the enterprise con-
cerned.140 It is difficult to obtain from a union member
a concrete definition of what is meant by such phraseology.
ht any rate, there hes been little indication of wide-
spread desire to effect sweeping reorganizations in mnn-
agement in the fashion of the "democratization" movennt
of late 1945. The naticnel union end severe1 locals et
up "purge committees" early in 1947 with the intention of
recommending cendidates for removal in the pending press
purge. The AJNhWU committee went so fer as to cemend thet
the purge of journalists should be based on its recom-
mendations, end thet it should supply some of the members
of the government's Central Screening Committee.l4l The
demands were rejected, and the committee subsequently dis-
solved.142 The AJNRVU also contcmplated the institution
of a newspeper criticism committee, whose functions were
undefined.143 On 8 February 1947, the BCJ union formelly
served President TAKANo with a request for the esteblish-
ment of Conference for the Promotion of Broedcesting
(Hoso Shinko Kaig1) orgenized on a joint union-manegement
basis. Its stated purpose--the realization of "radio for
the averege man"--was to be attained through joint en-
deavor in programming, technical functioning, and business
administration.144 As of the end of July, the conference
140. The Nihon Keizei Shimbun contract, for example, states
that the union "wishes to democratize thoroughly
the media of speech end information in accordance
with their public character," end adds as one of its
objectives "to promote the participation of union
members in mensgement." Chepter I Article 2.
141. Shimbun no Shimbun, 25 March 1947.
142. Interview with AJNFWU Cheirman Takayuk1 KAWAZOE, 23
May 1947.
143. Ibid.
144. Document supplicd by BCJ union, 3 July 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON PRESS UNIONS
was still on peper.145
As for the determination of editorial poliey, no news-
paper executive interviewed admitted the existence of un-
ion influence at the present time. In some lerger orgeni-
zations, union leaders do not engege in their regular news-
paper duties. Thus  the cheirman of the Asahi union sur-
rendered his position as vice-chief of the political news
section in the editorial department when he took union
office.146 The cheirman of the Kyodo union, a member of
the social news section, has devoted himself exolusively
to union business.147 On the whole, both union end man-
agement personnel in enterprises visited appeared to be
well aware thet editorial policy determinetion is a func-
tion of menagement.
The attitudes expressed by menagement personnel in
regard to union locals end the AJNRWU ranged from tolera-
tion to distrust. Representstive director HASEBE of the
Asahi stated that, in his belief, no press union in Jepan
is more sound and democretic in leadership and practices
than that of the Asahi. Nevertheless, he said, he had
come to the conclusion that management must ebandon its
"cooperative" policy and let union end management go their
separate ways. As for the AJNRVU, HASEBE gave as his
opinion that the netional union is now "quite powerless"
and unlikely to constitute again the threat it represented
in October 1946.148 Of the Yomiuri union, President BABA
voiced annoyance with the frequency of union requests for
higher wages end speciel allowances. "Unions are unions
the world cver," he commented. He regarded the AJNRWU
145. Menagement agreed "in principle," on the basis that
union cooperetion in all phases of management was
a good idee, provided the cooperation remained con-
sultative and edvisory and did not embrece attempts
to direct management. Interviews with Meneging
Director Tetsuro FUTUKAKI, 9 July 1947.
146. Interview with Kyozo MORI, 19 Mey 1947.
147. Interview with Maneging Editor Masuo KATO end Union
Chairman Ishimatsu OBOSHI, 31 May 1947.
148. Interview, 13 June 1947.
149. Interview, 29 May 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
F E S T R I C T E D
56
LABOR ORGANIZATION IN THE PRESS AND RADIO
Masuo KhTO, managing editor of Kyodo, considered the Kyodo
union "a good thing" so long es it keeps within the sphere
of whet managenent is willing to concede. On the whole,
he stated, it docs not seem likely thet radicel elements
will be able to push press unions into extremist poli-
cies.150
The main concern for the future, a concern thet is
strong in menagement and apperently gcining pround among
union members, is thet press unions should not agein fall
under the sway of extremist leadership. In Jepen, as else-
where, the unions provide a fevoreble setting for the
mechinations of parties whose objectives only incidently
parellel those of labor. The press unions, end perticu-
larly the union in the monopoly BCJ, inevitably would in-
vite the attention of leftist elements. Yet the press un-
ions, like the press itself, heve'& vitel role to play in
the basic objective of encouraging democretic tendencies.
in Jepen, a role that is recognized in fundamental Occupa-
tion policy. From this point of view, the development of
press unions organized.on ε democratic basis and devoted
to legitimete purposes assumes dourle importence.
150. Interview, 28 Mey 1947.
F. E S T F I C T E D

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
52
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON PRESS UNIONS
was still on peper.145
As for the determination of editorial polioy, no news-
paper executive interviewed admitted the existence of un-
ion influence at the present time. In some lerger organi-
zations, union leaders do not engege in their regular news-
paper duties. Thus the cheirman of the Asahi union sur-
rendered his positfon as vice-chief of the political news
section in the editorial department when he took union
office.146 The cheirman of the Kyodo union, a member of
the social news section, has devoted himself exolusively
to union business.147 On the whole, both union end man-
agement personnel in enterprises visited appeared to be
well aware that editorial policy determination is a func-
tion of menagement,
The attitudes expressed by menegement personnel in
regard to union locals and the AJNRWU ranged from tolera-
tion to distrust. Representative director HASEBE of the
Asahi stated that, in his belief, no press union in Japan
1s more sound and democretic in leadership and practices
than that of the Asahi. Nevertheless, he said, he had
come to the conclusion thet management must abandon its
"cooperative" policy and let union and management go their
separate ways. As for the AJNRVU, HASEBE gave as his
opinion that the netional union is now "quite powerless"
and unlikely to constitute again the threat it represented
in October 1946.148 Of the Yomiuri union, President BABA
voiced annoyance with the frequency of union requests for
higher wages and speciel allowances. "Unions are unions
the world over," he commented. He regarded the AJNRWU
145. Management agreed "in principle," on the basis that
union cooperetion in all phases of management was
a good idea, provided the cooperation remained con-
sultetive and edvisory and did not embrece attempts
to direct management. Interviews with Managing
Director Tetsur. FUT UKAKI, 9 July 1947.
146. Interview with Kyozo MORI, 19 May 1947.
147. Interview with Managing Editor Masuo KATo and Union
Chairman Ishimatsu OBOSHI, 31 May 1947.
148. Interview, 13 June 1947.
149. Interview, 29 May 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
58
APPENDIX
Article 7. The Asehi Shimbun·shall recognize the freedom
of union members to Join political parties, engage in
political activities, or hold public office.
Article 8. The contract shall be valid for one yeer from
the date of conclusion. In case neither of the parties
expresses an intention to revise or rescind the contract
befpre its expiration, this contract shall continue to be
valid autometically. However, in case both parties reach
agreement, the contract mey be revised or rescinded re-
gardless of the term of validity.
In case both parties cannot reach agreemont on a new
contract before the expiration of the term of validity,
and either party lays the question before the Labor Com-
mittee, this contract shall be valid until the new con-
tract is concluded.
To witness the conclusion of the contrect, this con-
tract shell be drawn up in triplicete. The Asahi Shimbun
and the union shall keep one copy each, and the third
shall be submitted to the administrative authorities.
Representative of the Aseh1 Shimbun
Ali Japan News and Radlo.Workers Union
MEMORANDUM:
In regard to Article 7, freedom of perticipation in
any political party is recognized. However, if perticipa-
tion causes serious detriment to duty, transfer will be
permitted. Any union member will be free to engege in po-
litical activities and to hoid public office unless there
is serious detriment to office duty. These cases will be
decided through collective bargeining.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
R E S T R I C T E D
SOURCES
A major portion of the information upon which this re-
port is based was secured from conferences with newspeper,
BCJ, and union officiels. These conferences were heid in
Tokyo, unless otherwise designeted, on the dates indicated.
All Jepan News and Radio Workers' Union
KAWAZOE, Takayuk1, chairman, 12 end 13 May 1947.
MORIOKA, Shichiro, accountant-auditor and informetion
officer, 22 May 1947.
HASE, Toyoj1, member centrel executive committee, 22 May
1947.
Asahi Shimbun - 3,353,658 circuletion.
HASEBE, Tedeshi, representative director and chief editor,
13 June 1947.
MORI, Kyoz0, union chairman, 19 and 20 May 1947, 27 June
1947.
Broadcasting Corporation of Jepan
FURUKAKI, Tetsuro, general maneger, 9 July 1947, 21 July
1947.
MATSUBARA, Yoshio, chairmen of union's executive committee,
3 Ju1y 1947.
KUNIEDA, Tadao, member of union's executive committee,
3 July 1947.
Kobe Shimbun.(Kobe) - 142,000 circulation.
ASAKURA, Shido, president and chief editor, 4 June 1947.
SENDA, Mokichi, union chairman, 4 June 1947.
YOSHIDA, Denichi, union vice-chairman, 4 June 1947.
MORIOKA, Toshio, reporter, 4 June 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D
-59-

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
60
SOURCES
Kyodo News Agency
KATO, Masuo, managing editor, 28 and 31 May 1947.
OBOSHI, Ishimatsu, union chairman, 31 May 1947, 2 July 1947.
Kyoto Shimbun (Kyoto) - 124,940 circulation.
TAKAYA, Teiichiro, standing director and chief of editorial
départment, 3 June 1947.
YANO, Mr., editorial depertment, social news section chief,
2 June 1947.
Mainichi Shimbun - 3,504,790 circulation.
NAGATA, Masaharu, managing editor, 23 May 1947.
TAKATA, Ichitaro, chief of Lieison Department, 1 May 1947.
MIYAMOTO, Yoshio, member of union preparatory committee,
16 May 1947.
Miyako Shimbun (Kyoto) - 71,9ε0 circuletion.
SHIOGAI, Junji, president, 3 June 1947.
MURAKAMI, Kay S., reporter, 3 June 1947.
TSUJI, Yutaka, reporter, 3 June 1947.
Nippon Keiza1 Shimbun - 310,077 circuletion.
OBAMA, Ritoku, president, 27 May 1947.
OGIHARA, Hakuei, chief of foreign news section, 27 May 1947.
Nishi Nippon Shimbun (Fukuoka) - 527,748 circulation.
TANAKA, Nariyuki, representative director, 6 to 9 June
1947.
HIRONAKA, Denji, director and chief of printing depertment,
6 and 7 June 1947.
NAKAHARA, Kotaro, managing editor, 7 and 9 June 1947.
NODA, Shunsaku, shareholder and nenber of House of Coun-
cillors, 9 June 1947.
KIDO, Akira, editorial committee member, 7 June 1947.
YANO, Sadeo, union chairman, 7 June 1947.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
R E S T R I C T E D
SOURCES
61
Shinko Yukan Shimbun (Kobe) - 73,484 circuletion.
TAKEUCHI, Mr., president, 5 June 1947.
Yomiuri Shimbun - 1,700,000 circulation.
BABA, Tsunego, president, 29 May 1947.
WATANABE, Fumitaro, union chairman, 29 May 1947.
SHIBATA, Hidetoshi, secretary of the president, 12 June
1947.
MUTO, Santoku, chief of business department, 12 June 1947.
Yukan Kyoto (Kyoto) - 700,000 circulation.
YAMAGUCHI, Shigetero, managing director, 2 June 1947.
MATSUI, Katsumi, chief of advertising section, 2 June
1947.
NUMATA, Imajiro, union chairman, 3 June 1947.
In addition, information was obteined from the per-
sonnel and files of the following offices:
Information Division, Press and Publications
Unit and Radio Unit, CIE, SCAP.
Analysis and Research Division, Media Analysis
Unit and Informetion Media Research Unit, CIE,
SCAP.
Labor Division, ESS, SCAP.
Japanese press and publications sources are indica-
ted in footnotes.
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
RESTRICTED
DATE: November-6, 1947.
SUBJECT:
Japanese Labor Situation.
NOV 1 0 1947
2
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Killan - SCAP GH
ir. Sullivan - ILH
Mr. Howland - ILH
Mr. Evans - IR
Mr. Swayzee - ILH
Mr. Karst - INP
894.504/11
Mr. Horowitz - ILH
Mr. Green - NA
Mr. Wiesman - ILH
COPIES TO:
NA:
Mr. Allison
OE:
Mr. Whitman
3
DRF:
Mr. Hunsberger
A-3:
Mr. O'Sullivan
1-1493
There follows a summary of the main points made by Mr. Killan,
Chief of SCAP's GHa Labor Division, in his discussion of the
Japanese labor situation:
1. Coal shortage
"Most" of Japan's econonic ills can be traced back to the
shortage of coal. The coal shortage in turn is largely the re-
sult of inexperienced and ill-fed labor, lack of mining equip-
ment ans a elleral deterioration of mines prought about by wartime
exploitation. Before the war most Japanese mines were operated
by Korean and Chinese "slave" laborers who worked a 6o-hour week
and for whom there were no safety siandards. In contrast, today
newly recruited free miners enjoy a 48-hour week and are pro-
C
tected py a comprehensive Lator Standards Act. The experience
S
or sCAP has been that the 8-hour day produces maximum efficiency,
particularly under the prevailine primitive mining conditions.
Althou h the ue ree of apsenteeism in the mines is disturbing,
there is no wiuespread unrest. In fact labor relations in the
1
coal mines have, sirce the war, been so ood that SCAp's Labor
Division undertook to iave incorporated In the Coal Nationali-
1
zation Bill measures to protect existine collective bargaining
procedur's. (Comment: Recallin that 3 of the 8 hours are
DCR - ITP Unit
NOV1
Anal.
FILED
spent
Rev
RESTHI CTED
Cat.
Dist

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
-2-
spent in getting to and from the pit-face and that a slightly
greater number of miners today are producing only 30 per cent
of 1936 levels, one is led to suspect that labor productivity
may have suffered considerably under the impact of trade union-
ism -- a suspicion not entirely removed by ir. Killan's emphasis
on the deterioration of mining equipment, etc.)
2. Surplus labor
The traditional Japanese concept of family persists in
industry. Once on the payroll, the worker is regarded as a
member of the company's family. Even if the company 1s opera-
ting on a reduced scale, due to war damage or lack of raw mate-
ri Is, there has been a tendency on the part of employers to
retain war workers as well as ex-employee returned servicemen.
Against this back round there has been considerable agi-
tation for rationalizin the surplus labor force on the grounds
that it has encourated inefficiency, raised costs and has pre-
judiced the Japanese competitive position in overseas markets.
However, 3CAP has opposed any large scale rationalization program
because: 1) as long as the workers are employed they are pro-
ducing something, however small; 2) the Japanese Government has
inadequate relief forces ano funds to take care of any large num-
ber of unemployed; and, 3) the Japanese Government is not strong
enouch to withstand the political consequences of such a ration-
alization prograu. SCapis policy will continue to be one of
encouraging the gradual shift of workers to jobs where they are
Lost needed.
3. Stabilization
Since setting the average composite wage at l8oo yen a
month, the index of living has risen 25 per cent and 1s likely
to continue upward as a result of the supplementary budget. It
will trerefore be impossible for the Government to resist a grow-
in worker demand that the wage scale be adjusted. SCAp's Labor
Division has suggested the formula that wage increases be based
on production increases with price ceilings being maintained.
4. Communist infiltration in trade unions
The Communist Party definitely controls the electrical
workers' union and has made considerable progress in penetrating
into the government transport and communications unions.
5. Future
PESTRICTED

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
-3
5.
Future of trade unionism in Japan
Mr. Killan spoke with evident conviction along the lines
that trade unionism in Japan is only beginning to take bold and
that, if the U.S. were to withdraw its control of Japan within
the next year or two trade unionism would be rapidly supplanted
by traditional Japanese labor practices. Speaking more gener-
ally, Mr. Killan expressed the opinion that unless the U.S. re-
tained direct control of Japan for at least another four or five
years, our efforts to bring about a democratic Japan would neces-
sarily fail. (Mr. Killan is presumably unaware of the current
thinking in the Department on post-treaty controls over Japan.)
mg
RESTRICTED
NA: MGreen: hhc

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
CHNANAL TRADE
FOLICY
1948 JAN 14 AM 11 04
Tokyo, December 29, 1947
No. 1483
MESOATER
RESTRICTED
DNISION OF OCCIPIED AR AS
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
JA 12 9 44
5
RECEIVED
SUBJECT:
Directive Instructing the Japanese Governnent to
18
Over-come the Causes of Labor Shortages.
04/12-2947
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a directive issued by this Headquarters (SCAPIN 1832)
dated December 19, 1947, informing the Japanese Government that
there is a shortage of laborers needed to complete Occupation
projects and that the shortage is attributed to inefficient
distribution of food and clothing rations, lack of transportation,
844-015
and financial difficulties of contractors due to delay in payments.
The Japanese Government is instructed to take remedial measures by
making prompt payments in accordance with contracts, properly
supervising equitable distribution of food and clothing rations,
and furnishing adequate transportation.
IPED
It is believed that certain of the conditions to which the
shortage of laborers is attributed are not limited to the Tokyo
CPIES
area but are to be found in varying degrees throughout Japan.
TO:
Such conditions appear to be one of the chief causes of labor
1R
inrest, inefficiency of labor, and low production levels. As may
FE
be gathered from many editorials and communications of the "letter
to the editor" type appearing in Japanese newspapers, inefficient
0c0
and inequitable distribution of food, clothing, fuel, and electricity
DCIR
are of major concern to the people.
CS/V
Enclosure:
GHQ, SCAP, directive,
December 19, 1947,
FE3- 2 1340
concerning the shortage
OFFICE OF LITELLIOGNGE
of Japanese laborers
COLLECTION AD 
(SCAPIN 1832) (five copies).
MAR 25 1948
894.504
FILHD
Original and ozalid to Department
880.4
RHBushner/bo
RESTRICTED

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.92)
GENEPAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 04.06 (19 Dcc 47)GD
APO 500
(SCAPIN
1832)
19.ecesor 1747
MEMORIDUM FOR: JAPAIESE GOVERIEEIT
TIROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
S:
Shortage of Japanese Laborers
1. It has cone to the attention of General Headquarters, Supreme
Comuander for the Allicd Fovers, that a shortage of Jepanese labor exists
for cortain construction being rerforned for the Cccupation Forces. This
shorte is most acute in the Toso area, and the project suffering the
ereatust labor shortage is the Grent Heights project. Chis lacor shortage
is attriout:d to inefficient distributior of food ana cloting rations, lack
of transport tion, und financial aifficulties of ccatrcctors due to celey
in u..ts  the Ja anese Govermment.
2. To co-rcct tis cituetion. it is directed thet tie Japanese Govern-
mont iritirto rm ir morsures in edietely to include ut not to be limited
to the rollovin
a. Payments dte on contracts will te kopt curreit in sufficiont
amounts to cneble ccntractors to pay their omployoes proipslr. Supervision
will be such as to insure that employces will be so prid.
b. Positive supcrvision end control vili be exereised to insure
an couitable end proper listribution of prescribed food ene clothins rations
to the leborurs.
c. adequate transpcrt tion vill be made avuil ble to or trovided
for the luborers.
3. an initinl report of progrese made in the exccution of the foreroing
directive vill be rendered to General Hecaruarters, Sunr me Comaander for the
Allicd Povers, not later than 30 D.cenber l47.
FOR THE SUPPELE COLADER:
L
Colo1, .
Adjutrit Goneral.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, January 6, 1948.
No. 13
214
CONFIDENTIAL
Nooth Eastasi
AssAivs
DA/R
JAN 21,
SUBJECT: Text of a Memorandum Believed to Have Been
Prepared by Elements of the Japan Communist.
Party.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.504/1-648
19
The Honorable
005
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of the text (in
translation and Japanese) of an undated memorandum which
is believed to have been prepared by certain elements of
the Japan Communist Party. The paper, which contains
the minutes of two meetings of a conference of the
"National Fraction of Coal Miners" (held on October 4
and October 12, 1947, respectively), was presented to me
informally by Mr. ESAKU Sato, Vice Minister of the
Japanese Ministry of Transportation, as evidence that
IR
the Japan Communist Party has agents in labor unions and
government positions.
From the memorandum it may be seen that Communist
elements are endeavoring to encourage labor strife, with
the obvious purpose of delaying the rehabilitation of
the Japanese economy and preventing increased production.
This purpose is revealed by the memorandum in which the
"really serious" economic crisis in Japan is welcomed as
CS/A
"helpful to the Party combat". Such crisis is desired,
not only because it furnishes conditions favorable to ex-
pansion of the Japan Communist Party's strength, but also
王要
because development of economic chaos would discredit the
policies of the Occupation and simultaneously those of the
United States. (That criticism of Occupation policy is
considered another means of attacking United States for-
eign policy is evidenced by the manner in which Soviet
propaganda organs link the two by use of such terms as
"American Occupation authorities".)
That discrediting the Occupation is an objective of 
the Soviet Government has already been amply demonstrated
by the manner in which the Soviet Member of the Allied
Council for Japan has distorted facts. As the Departments
194864
is aware, he has, at meetings of the Council, repeatedly
made
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 287 === (confidence 1.00)
ORIGINAL of Enclosure to Despatch No. 13
dated January 6, 1948 from the Office of
the United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Text of a
Memorandum Believed to Have Been Pre-
pared by Elements of the Japan Communist
Party".

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No.13
January 6, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
made statements critical of Occupation policies such as
those concerned with education, land reform, public health
measures, and the repatriation program. (In connection
with the latter, reference is made to this Mission's des-
patch No. 1471 of December 22, 1947, concerning the pro-
posed prosecution of a Communist Party newspaper for
violation of the "Press Code" and previous correspondence
concerning Communist misrepresentation of the repatriation
program of this Headquarters). The Communist line of the
"fraction" which circulated the enclosed memorandum is
clearly indicated by repetition of propaganda from Pravda
with regard to international affairs. For example, upon
the basis of an interpretation of an article from that
newspaper, the statement is made that "by a rapid growth
of the people's popular influence in Western Europe, the
Soviet voice in the United Nations is gaining power every
day".
A desire on the part of such Communist elements to
discredit the Occupation may further be implied from
criticism of policies commonly believed to be supported
by this Headquarters. For example, rationalization of
industry, anti-monopoly measures, and the "Temporary
Agricultural Production Adjustment Law" are each attacked
as part of an "intrigue" to orient the Japanese economy
toward that of a foreign colony by subsidizing exports
through "half-slavery" wages. In addition, the implication
that the withholding tax (collection of which has received
favorable comment from officials of this Headquarters) has
resulted in collection of taxes from labor only, is cal-
culated to cause resentment on the part of employees and
may contribute to tax delinquency.  The abolition of income
taxes, also recommended in the memorandum, would have the
effect of preventing the financing of reform programs
recommended by this Headquarters. Effectuation of such
recommendations would also have serious effects upon the
delicate balance of the Japanese Government's financial
stability.
A familiar Communist method of attack may be noted in
the recommendation that "local struggle and...workshop
battles" be used as an election weapon. It is believed
that the use of local disturbances rather than a general
strike is advised as a means of avoiding repetition of an
order such as that issued by General MacArthur on January
31, 1947 prohibiting a proposed general strike.
Of incidental interest is the recommendation contained
in the memorandum that support be given to the affiliation
of the National Coal Miners Union (Zen Tan) with the National
Congress of Industrial Organizations (Sambetsu) an important
labor organization in which Communists are believed to be
influential.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
1n 740.00119ntalC
Tokyo's No.13
894.00
January 6, 1948
895.5043
894.5043
CONFIDENTIAL
7400011glantral
(japaw)/12-1247
A-S DRF
this Mission's despatch No. 1449 of December 12, 1947
No. 22 issued by the Military Intelligence Section of c
this Headquarters, containing information regarding Com-/LH
munist influence in certain unions.)
EURIX
Respectfully yours,
W..Secac
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosure:
071
Copy of the text of an undated
instruction believed to have
been prepared by elements of
the Japan Communist Party (in
original and translation).
Original and hectograph to the Department
800.
RHBushner:cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.91)
開催し上京中の地方フラク、党本部他産別フラクの加を
面の賃銀闘爭を中心とした闘爭方針を決定したが十月四日全
並に炭協全國大會を機に上京中の國フラクを召集し九月二
日決定に基いて次の如き闘爭方針を決定した
兰各地方フラクは此の決定に基いて各地方の情勢にじて強力に具
化し之に基いて夫々のフラク機関にかけて速に其の決定を覚本
組織活動指導部炭フラク宛報告してもらい度い
一國際國內情勢報告
イ國際
ソ聯の経済学者「ヴアルガ一のブラウタ紙に寄せた論にも
はれてる如く米の恐慌は拡大化し英はボンド幽を閉鎖し更
欧洲に於けるマーシャル経済政策は一大難関に逆着した。一
中西欧の人民民主主義勢力の志速なる増大に伴つて國聯に於
るソの発言確は日を近つて強大となりつつあり最近の國
に於てソが頭から米を叩いてると云ふ事実は此の事を
けるものである。然し此の人民勢力の弟揚と中共の压倒的な
利に伴つて日本に対する相対的出力は極東に於ける拠点とし
極東に於けるルール化日本の炭開発に対する極力其の力
増しつつある
口半れい奴的低質銀勞働に依る輸出に依つて日本経済を植民地
の方向に再編成しようとする金触独占資本の蔭課は賃加工的
出產業生產を強行しつつある企業整備一八○○円平均釘付
銀の固守貢本の集中排除更に農業生產調整令等は此の一
に連なるものである。此の調整令こそはけふ價格差一シエ
を法律的に個定化して農民と勞働者とを同時的に收奪しよ
するものである。然し此の結果勞働力は破壞される。職揚
等は此の現はれである。勞農通信の調査に依ると現在要求

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.88)
出中の大衆は概ね三〇〇万人に上ると言はれており二
当時より遙かに大きな規模で動いていると云ふ
又今議曾に上程される追加豫算は一一○○億に上るだら
の結果十二月下旬から物價は高騰する。安本では來年國
頃には前大戦后のドイツに於けるルクの乱発当時に於
態上り更に惡化すると見て居り更に來年末頃迄には日
行高は四○○○乃至五○○○億に上るだらう。今や日本
危機は全く深刻である。此の事は闘爭に有利である。然
の解決方法は敢早や命的方法以外にはないと云ふ事で
そこで我々は今次闘爭を丞本的にはゲリラ消耗戦ストラ
ルチサン戦法で闘ねはならない。堅固な敵の防備態勢
攻で行くのは徒らに牲多く闘ひは困難である。此
てこそ找々は賊場闘爭を相み重ねて之を地坡闘爭に押し
行かなくてはならないのである。而も之をやるのは覚細
2
基本的は九月二十一日決定を全曲的に再確認才る。然し只五
突破資金所得稅或は保安確保鬪爭等の個々の問題を做底的に
ラバラに闘ふのではなく其の場合必ず最低貨銀闘爭と結び付
ふと云ふ事最低貨銀制の闘爭を如何なる場合でも必ず併行
ふと云ふ事。從つて敢低貨銀の闘爭だけで單独に闘つて行け
夫のみでもドシドシ闘爭を展開しなければならないのであ
吾々は決定的な中命的な鬪を此の敢低實銀獲得闘爭を徹底
ふ事に低つて押し進めて行かなくてはならないと云事を再
2
此の意味で技俯的には中央炭協の安求は
山敢低賃銀制の確立四所得伐徹退職金閩鉉員給與
15保安設備の完備
各地方各川の要求は
危機突破資金四所得稅曾社負担同保安設備の完備
等が中心となり多用的な各山に應じた闘爭を展開する

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.86)
第
回然し大れ
三四
此処に於て吾々
さ
十月から
(1)
な
安方
に從つて一本で押し進めるが矢張り時をかせぐ方向で行
かねはな
る
には時至かせ
施办敢
再度下部に流し來るべ
せる意が明
の場合北海道は特にさ
らな
Sと公ふ
言文革命的段階
で進む之は木た細胞か完全に此の貞金柔至つかんで大衆を
の大會に於て此
0
にも拘は
らな
力
口
上
し易
ij
は如何に爲すべきか
らかだ
つて々は
らす灰聯か割つて出た時には吾々は吾々
い方同に持つて行かなけれ
き
为
き
の貨銀安求を巡つ
2
に於ける故低質銀闘爭を貫做し
人會に於て吾々
れた技能給と地坡等でも
中立組合を廣況に從得し炭聯幹部左叩
であ
心。
0
0
力
て炭は炭協組を分裂
安を一本にする
口
れ
はな
一案の二本貨銀案を
はな
み再度北海道
久
と
なけ
<
しては細
の主張
れば
とs
あ

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.87)
三
ふ
生
安
な
办
更
認
術
中
增
卽
大衆
國
つ
C
事
産
け
1)
に
め
的
小
强
ち
管
て
於け
に
闘
る
れ
氣
自
さ
Vに
炭
の
保安設
の
行
な
争
に
ば
を
由
せ
は絶対案を
礦
為
同題
<
る大會を
る
と
吾
な
取
C
の
の
結
5
5
備
と
で
C
は
な
れ
本
の
L
S
て
家
然
完
て
る
大
を
否定
1)
は
備
S
衆
叩
方向
5
に
き
2
此
て
福
1り1
の
國
利
に
云
公
管
び付け
F
傾
见
党
を
C
生
み大
S
が
官
依
施
殆展
て
正
僚
F
つ
設
3
會
は
L
を
に
て
の
の
絶
バ
<
結
始
確
左
L
对
47
ひ付
め
保
(图
め
に
左
て
口
な
曾人民管理
け
山
退
け
け
る
て宜傳啓
米
職金
n
を
但
る
北
は
S
與
L
6
0
海道独自
と
國
0
云
な
管
を
蒙
で
得
な
ふ
促
吳質的
十
あ
S
事
樣
進
る
る
生
で
と
之
汇
に
特
產
6
云
を
L
は
に
技
に
の

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.92)
五
生
(3)
(2)
(1)
と
ク
7
4
過
之
つ
主
現
大
產
法
更
衛
而
基
の
口
ラ
年
十
で
て
張
在
增
的
VC
的
L
本
提
L
ク
度
れ
さ
頭
勤
强
拘
納
操
具
的
携
貨
は
办
た
勞
稅
國
束
稅
作
体
C
を
銀
5
增
会
5
所
反
争
力
の
が
的
は
詳
四
加
大
の
得
対
及
は
取
C
延
5
争
細
五
所
が
引
稅
び
な
務
5
は
期
な
と
左
億
得
さ
其
以
争
石
S
者
れ
で
け
資
の
稅
常
れ
の
外
炭
と
は
る
字
な
れ
Cび
料
経
の
C
る
の
復
云
会
C
<
は
付
が
営
四
脫
勤
制
大
興
な
撤
な
け
出
豫
倍
稅
勞
弱
衆
会
争
で
る
路
5
更
さ
算
從
L
近
程
課
議
を
あ
ま
で
な
に
れ
の
集
て
得
度
稅
对
知
つ
で
行
課
る
九
0)
S
稅
L
VC
策
つ
て
<
其
稅
办
C
九
る
の
於
て
延
期
反
5
倍
從
み
取
け
置
期
で
で
対
五
は
近
1)
が
り
る
<
不
行
吾
同
大
<
て
そ
立
稅
事
納
<
々
盟
は
が
追
の
て
收
が
と
は
等
之
課
微收
加
対
5
入
有
於
办
を
5
稅
豫
象
れ
は
利
け
会
結
の
で
さ
算
と
な
で
る
成
具
あ
れ
な
S
事
あ
吾
負
L
体
る
る
つ
狀
実
る
担
て
的
近
粘
0
て
態
所
と
農
<
0
居
C
得
対
民
実
全
に
億
1)
あ
稅
T
の
市
を
財
な
が
而
等
る
技
民
バ
の
る
通
6
從
を

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.89)
に實銀闘爭と結ひ付ける從つて拘束六時間
て
如
亦
統
の
の
云
大
は
0
み
九
三
吾
主
提
吾
樂
之を前面
月
千
の
体
案
4
と
を
爭
万
は
具
的
を悉
つた
は
共
で
十一日決定に於ける保安設備
卜
は
交皆制を
と
條
経
な
あ
れ
する
幻想
け
2
出
れ
と
炭
Sて
と
は
云
の
る
云
左
に於てだん王
ふ事從って王
4
办
らな
質的益路打開闘爭
を暴
する
へて其
露
前
つ
C
め
あ
し資
に封建的低貨銀勞働に
の
石
る
弱
事幹部だけで
を真向
の
を
で
家
勞
此
は
闘爭を官識の弾
の徹底
其
资協
办
の
左
2
の
ら
面で
く保安設備鬬爭が既
四交替で配置轉換に反対
展
餘
調
て
は
的
件
的
之
ね
し國
生產
が
つ
け
そ
け
低る勞強
ろ
と結び付け更
だけ
國の
を糾だ
と
の
云
くして
和
VC
為
ん
化
吾
本
(7)
L
が
線
々
家
と
で

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.90)
5
て
て農市
大
左
金
的
だ
は
に
の
L
炭
組織活
て
現
L
S
闘
ん生
何時迄
全國的共
を
共
協
に全炭
新規採用等
0
民と
爭
捨
闘
で
を始
を
を
1D7
ち
動
事
あ
排除
6
て
方
の
高秋支部
る
め
6
針
と
に
L
全國的單
の
あ
の
6
して大衆課祝反対
展開
强
址
3
結論を出寸前
力
に
体で
し次期選事鬪乎
では拘東六時間二交答を
に
止
を
してだん力のあ
めて道
あ
基
る
此
件
合
4
と
を
り
くN
の
を
方
云
に
决定的
意
作
針
充分檢討しな
7
ラ
の鬪爭保安設備闘
と
味
る
左前
に迄結
は
办
介
往
あ
5
地
面
の
職場
や
縣炭
方
に
誤
り
命
每
出
出
付
統協佐
に
た機
け
爭を細胞
け
C
共闘安
求
れ
て行かな
て行
を
あ
械的變更性
積
手等
る
縣協內の全炭派
立
な
<
ち
5
を
を推し
會
上
な
ね
くて
を
落
5
S
を抹
作
う
は
と
廣
り
る
と
域
左
L
め
更
6
L

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.87)
1
以
(3)
回全炭の新運動方針
(1)
今後の対炭協対策として
一既にブル新聞で報ぜられた通
ら地壊毎に敢低賃金を組み立てて闘って行く事を明示し強い所から
大會の報告眞相を徹底的に
上の三つを中心として討議し次の如き決定をした
統一对策
紙
國
する爲直に十二日
大會の席をけって退場した此
闘爭方針
に依って詳
7
ラ
を
炭磁全國
召集した尚大會に於ける日
議
番
に報導するか
使党本部か
7
ラ
ク
力
3
ら檔極的に利用していただきたい
ら
の
1)
八
口
中央委員二名の出席を願つて炭全
分裂に基いて今後の闘手方針を討議
日欽炭聯
會議議事錄
リ
1
を
の手
欽炭聯の製切行爲は全炭機闕
の大部分は十月十二日炭協
健
を
一九四七一○一二
せしめた事矣の
上に各職場か

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.91)
5
4
3
２大會強留努力を急速に固める必要があり今とそ全炭は枠を外して合
質的に推進する名杯を炭協○○地方協議會と寸る卽ち頭に灰協を附
的
で
つ
一本になるといふ事とれが現実化したのであ
と從つて從來の基本方針に基いて共同闘手から脫洛したものを捨て
分殺し單一化といふ事は共同闘爭を通して現段階に至つたと云ふこ
なくてはならないので
言いかへれば留組を單一化し脫退派を共同闘爭にまき込んで行か
はな
て脱退した大衆に喰ひ込んで之をどしどし吸收して行く事を怠って
要するに実質的な全炭が二十二万に増大したといふことになる從つ
同しなければな
争に入つて之を波及させて行く
C
あ
る。だから中央炭協は圈体交涉は促進せしめ地方的闘爭を計畫
り吾々は炭協の線を強刀に
らな
と
め
S
て行き地方では強力に縣協組織を強化して共同闘爭を実
らない時である
ある
別に出して全炭のを外して行くの

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.92)
6対產別問題
7
を行はなけれはならない
求才る彼等が平均貨金交涉を進めて吾々別個に強力に團体交涉
にこの獲得したれべる迄貨金を引上けさせ笑に吾々は最低貨金を要
日
基本方針を精力的に宜傳し産別加盟を提唱しなけれはならない
會に於て大衆討議に依つて決せられるこの時とそ全炭は強力にその
の組織がある以上産別云々の問題はあり得ない從つて單一結成の大
單一化された時卽ち全がを外す時に問題になるのであつて全炭
して単一への形をへさせる
炭聯が平均貨金で協定するかも知れない此の場合吾々は無條件
以
上

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch No. 13 dated
January 6, 1947, from the Office of
the United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Text of
a Memorandum Believed to Have Been
Prepared by Elements of the Japan
Communist Party".
TRANSLATION
I. On September 2l, the Tokyo Headquarters of the
Party called a conference of the"Central Fraction of
Coal Miners". This conference was attended by the
representatives of local fractions then visiting Tokyo
the Party Headquarters personnel and the fraction of the
National Congress of Industrial Organizations (Sambetsu),
and a combat policy was decided upon with the wage question
as its center. On October 4 a conference of the National
Fraction of Coal Miners"was called, taking advantage of the
opportunity of the presence in Tokyo of representatives who
were attending the general meetings of the National Coal
Miners Union (Zen Tan) and the National Council of Coal
Miners Unions (Tan Kyo Zenkoku). The following combat
policy was adopted on the basis of the decision made on
September 21:
II. The local fractions are to take vigorous
action to establish a concrete plan on the basis
of this decision according to local conditions;
obtain approval of the local fraction organs; and
report their decision to Party Headquarters, the
Leadership Department of Organized Activities,
and the Coal Mine Fraction.
MINUTES (Conference of the National
Fraction of Coal Miners, October 4,1947)
I. Report on international and domestic conditions:
(a) International Situation.
As manifested in an article contributed by a Soviet
economist "Valga" (or Varga) to the Pravda Newspaper, the
economic crisis in America is spreading, Britain has
closed the sterling block, and the Marshall economic policy
in Europe has met decisive difficulties. By a rapid growth
of the people's democratic influence in mid-Western Europe,
the Soviet voice in the United Nations is gaining power
every day. This is proved by the fact that Soviet Russia
is striking the United States on the head at the latest
sessions of the United Nations. Following this growth of
the people's influence and the overwhelming victory of the
Chinese Communists, pressure upon Japan is gaining weight
proportionally, especially against the development of coal
mines as the Ruhr of the Far East--the foundation of the
Far East.
(b) Domestic Situation.
By the intrigue of financial monopolistic capitalists,
who are trying, by means of half-slavery wages, to orient
the Japanese
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's 13
January 6, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
the Japanese economy toward foreign colonies by exports,
production in the wage-earning industries is being
forcibly carried out. The rationalization of industry,
maintenance of an 1,800 yen average monthly wage level,
opposition to concentrations of capital and the agricul-
tural production adjustment law--are all related to this
one point. This last mentioned ordinance is especially
calculated to establish legally the price differential
(Shiere?) for the purpose of exploiting the agricultural
and industrial laborers simultaneously. This, however,
results in the destruction of labor's power. The abandon-
ment of workshops by the laborers is the proof. According
to the Labor-Farmer News, the masses who are submitting
their demands at present are estimated to exceed 3,000,000,
or on a larger scale than at the time of the general strike
of February 1.
Furthermore, the supplementary budget which is pre-
sented to the present session of the Diet will reach 1l0
billion yen. This will raise prices beginning in the lat-
ter part of December. The Economic Stabilization Board
expects the economic condition in Japan in April-May next
year to be worse than the disaster in Germany after the
World War I. The note issue in Japan at the end of next
year will reach 400 to 500 billion yen. The economic
crisis in Japan is really serious. This situation is ad-
vantageous to our combat. There is no longer any other
solution than a revolutionary method. This time we must
fight fundamentally by commodity-exhausting guerrilla tac-
tics and by Baltizan strike tactics. A frontal attack upon
the strong defense line of the enemy is wasteful and dif-
ficult. We must develop our workshop struggle to an area
struggle and it is the cells of the Party which do this.
II. Wage Combat.
As the fundamental issue, the decision of September
21 is re-affirmed in an over-all way. We, however, must
not wage a separate battle for a winter-passing allowance,
a reduction of income tax, or for assuring safety devices;
each battle must be related to minimum wages. All efforts
should be made in parallel with the demand for minimum wages.
If a fight can be staged for minimum wages alone, it should
be pursued vigorously. We hereby re-affirm that we must
carry out a decisive and revolutionary battle by pushing for-
ward in thorough-going combat for the acquisition of minimum
wages.
In this sense, technically, the Central Coal Miners
Council (Chuo Tan Kyo) should develop a many-angled fight
according to the conditions in the coal mines, by means of
the following demands:
(1) the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 302 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.13
January 6, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
(1) the establishment of minimum wages; (2)
abolition of income tax; (3) introduction of the
retirement allowance; (4) miners' allowance; (5)
completion of safety devices.
In each mine and in each locality the following demands
should be presented:
(1) payment of a winter-passing bonus; (2)
payment of income tax by the company; (3) completion
of safety equipment.
It is clear that the Federation of Coal Miners' Unions
(Tan Ren) is trying to split the organization of the Coal
Miners Council (Tan Kyo) on the question of the wage demand.
What should we do then?
(1) There are two wage plans: one for 2,400 calories
of food monthly; and another for 2,200 calories advanced
by the Federation of Coal Miners' Unions. We must advance
with one demand for wages, grasping firmly upon the wage
plan, as our cells are not yet in a position to exercise
influence upon the masses.  For the latter reason, fractions
must lead the cells in such a manner as to facilitate their
activities in the easiest way. For this purpose, we must
gain time to transmit two wage plans to the lower parts of
the workers' organizations. Through this process, we can
capture the support of neutral union members, and inflict a
blow upon the leaders of the Federation of Coal Miners' Union.
(2) If the Federation of Coal Miners' Union outdoes us
in spite of this, we will stick to a one-way demand, laying
stress upon gaining time. In a word, in the present revolution-
ary stage we must fight out the minimum wage struggle.
In the case of 1 above, Hokkaido should fight for the
skill-encouraging allowance and for an area wage demand. Ef-
forts should be exerted to hold a general meeting in Hokkaido
again, and even if such a meeting is not possible, Hokkaido
should fight by itself.
III. Combat Through National Coal Control Law.
National coal control should be combined with our combat
as a question that affects the masses. In other words, such
matters as the completion of safety devices, welfare facili-
ties, payment of retirement allowance, the acquisition of
materials for increasing production, etc., are made possible
only through national control of coal mines. Such is es-
pecially true with small mines. This fact should propagandized
as a means of combat. Technically the absolute plan should be
avoided, and the secondary plan adopted (people's control
should be recognized in practice).
Further, the Liberal Party capitalists should be at-
tacked, and the Social Democratic Party bureaucrats supported.
In expediting national coal control, care must be taken not to
give
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 13
January 6, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
give an impression to the masses that the Social Democratic
Party is right.
In short, we must never tamper with the law; we must
relate national coal control to our production combat, and
lead up to a wage struggle.
IV. Combat of Opposition to Taxation of the Masses.
At present there is collected only 20% of all taxes
imposed on the masses (mostly business income tax) except
the income tax on labor. Only the income tax on labor is
collected l00%, as salaries and wages are paid by the com-
pany less income tax, and the companies do not turn over
all tax revenues collected. If the supplementary budget of
ll0 billion yen is passed, four times the increased income
tax and nine times the old income tax will be collected.
90% of the business budget this year (amounting to 114.5
billion yen) represents taxes on the masses. As detailed
data will be presented by our fraction in the Finance Ministry,
concrete figures will be exposed for the purpose of our wage
struggle. We must form a League for Opposition to Taxes and
join hands with the farms and city-workers. Thus we must
pursue the following steps:
(1) as a matter of principle, abolition/of
income tax7, rather than delay, must be stressed;
(2) concretely, technical operations are
adopted, such as delaying payment until workers'
living expenses are in the black, or making em-
ployers bear the income tax;
(3) it is advantageous to know that the
party responsible for the payment of tax (income
tax) is the employer, and an employee is not
legally bound for delay or non-payment.
V. Fight for Increased Production and Policy
Toward the Coal Rehabilitation Council.
In order to avoid the oppression of the authorities,
the combat for completing safety devices, decided upon
September 2l, should not be displayed prominently.  Safety
devices themselves constitute a subject for combat. This
means that a bona fide battle should be fought to rejeet
oppression, and that a combat is to be staged not only by
the chief officials of the Party but also by the masses.
We must destroy the false illusion that the economy
can be rehabilitated through the Economic Rehabilitation
Council or Coal Rehabilitation Council. At present,
conditions are ripe to expose the paternalistic character
of the Coal Rehabilitation Council and to crush all proposals
made by the capitalist side. We must carefully examine our
subjective conditions, re-examine the weaknesses of the two
Councils, and work for the formation of a labor front through
the Coal Miners Council.
Before
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.13
January 6, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
Before we mention the shift system, we must expose
how intensive labor is imposed on the workers by feudalis-
tic low wages, and accuse the capitalists of production
sabotage. Our combat for opening up the bottleneck in the
production of 30,000,000 tons of coal is combined with the
state coal control battle and our wage struggle. Naturally,
we insist on four shifts of six hours each, and oppose the
shifting of positions. Careful consideration should be
given before coming to a conclusion in favor of the employ-
ment of new workers. An example is furnished by the Takahagi
Branch of the National Coal Miners Union (Zen Tan) which de-
mands a two shift system of six hours each.
VI. Policy of Organized Activities.
We should cast off the false mechanical idea of the
past that the Coal Miners Council (Tan Kyo) is the founda-
tion upon which unity of the coal miners is established.
We have to bring forward our fundamental policy of building
unity through common struggle, and a single national union
should be established even if we abandon those who drop out.
A common combat committee should be formed in each locality,
and a national common combat committee should also be formed.
In this sense, it is a wrong policy to keep forever the
faction of the National Coal Miners Union (Zen Tan) in the
Saga Prefectural Coal Miners Association (Tan Kyo). Re-
jecting oppression, and developing obstinately local strug-
gles by repeating powerful and flexible workshop battles, we
should tie up these battles with the next election campaign.
The fractions, with cells as the center, should create
advantageous conditions, however slight, for the purpose of
winning a decisive revolutionary battle to be fought in co-
operation with the farms and city workers, for increased
wages and complete installation of safety devices, and
against taxation of the masses.
Minutes of a Conference of the National
Fraction of Coal Miners (0ctober 12, 1947)
I. As reported by bourgeois papers, a great majority
of the Japan Miners Union (Nikko) and the Federation of Coal
Miners' Union (Tan Ren) walked out of the general meeting of
the Coal Miners Council (Tan Kyo) which was convened on
October 12. In order to discuss future combat policy in the
face of this new split, a meeting of the National Fraction
of Coal Miners was called on the night of October 12, with
the presence, by invitation, of two central committee members
of Party Headquarters. The betrayal of the Japan Miners
Union (Nikko) and the Federation of Coal Miners' Unions (Tan
Ren) will be reported in detail in the press organ of the
National Coal Miners Union (Zen Tar); it is recommended that
positive action should be taken on the basis thereof.
Minutes
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyots No. 13
January 6, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
Minutes
The following three items were chiefly discussed as
future policy; (1) counter measures toward labor unity;
(2) policy toward the new movement of the National Coal
Miners Union (Zen Tan); (3) policy of combat.
As a result the following decisions were adopted:
(1) By means of thorough propaganda, a true report
concerning the general meeting should be made known and
the responsibility for setting our combat back exposed;
with this as a pre-supposition, a fight for the acquisition
of minimum wages in each workshop and in each locality,
with 2,400 calories as the base is clearly indicated;
fighting should begin in the area where the Union is strong
and be expanded to other areas;
(2) The unity of the remaining unions must be con-
solidated as speedily as possible; for this purpose, those
remaining in the National Coal Miners Union (Zen Tan) should
be unified and union regulations discarded;
(3) In short, the National Coal Miners Union has in-
creased to 220,000 members in practice. The opportunity
must not be neglected of cutting into the masses who seceded
from the general meeting and of absorbing these elements
successfully. In other words, the remaining unions should
be unified, and the seceding unions dragged into a common
combat;
(4) The present stage has been reached through common
battle, by split, and by unification into a single body.
Therefore, the policy pursued up to this time of abandoning
those who fell out of the common struggle, has now been
realized.
(5) Question with regard to National Congress of
Industrial Organizations (Sambetsu).
This question comes up only when unification is com-
pleted, or when the National Coal Miners Union (Zen Tan)
discards its regulations. As long as the organization of
the National Coal Miners Union exists, the question con-
cerning the National Congress of Industrial Organizations
cannot arise. Naturally, at the time when decisions are
taken by mass debates at the inaugural meeting of such an
organization, the National Coal Miners Union should pro-
pagandize its fundamental policy most energetically, and
propose affiliation with the National Congress of Industrial
Organizations.
(6) The Federation of Coal Miners' Unions (Tan Ren)
and Japan Miners Union (Nikko) may come to an agreement on
the average wage question. In this case, we must uncon-
ditionally demand wages equivalent to those they have ac-
quired. In addition we must demand minimum wages. Even
when
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.13
January 6, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
when they begin negotiations for an average wage, we must
undertake collective bargaining separately and most power-
fully.
O O O O
Translator:
KAMII, Yoshio

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
FORM DS-516
5-13-41
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
NA

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.94)
48   9 2
UNITED STATES'POLITICAL.ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 59
MES
DCIR
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Directive Instructing the Japanese Government to Take
Additional Measures to Overcome the Causes of Labor
12704.5018
Shortages.
S N OF OCCUPIED AR IS
ARS
erle
894.504/1-2748
2MAR91948
DE
DEPARTMENT OF
The Acting Pólitical Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despatch No. 1483 6f December 29, 1947 concerning instruc-
tions issued to the Japanese Government to overcome the causes of
labor shortages. There is now enclosed copy of a directive issued
by this Headquarters (SCAPIN 1832/1 of January 16, 1948) informing
the Japanese Government that a shortage of laborers needed to complete
Occupation projects still exists and that further corrective action
is necessary, especially in improving distribution of food and clothing.
Attention is invited to a directive issued by this Headquarters
14H
(SCAPIN 1775/1 of January 13, 1948) transmitted to the Department
with this Mission's despatch No. 54 of Jamuary 24, 1948 concerning
PTES
plans of the Japanese Government for reducing governmental expenditures.
FE
This SCAPIN prohibits the Japanese Government from general use of
supplemental rations (over and above rations allowed to all workers)
to obtain labor for construction on projects of the Occupation Forces.
In addition, in order to prevent payment of amounts in excess of
DuIR
legally established prices, procedures must be established for avoid-
ing undue delay in processing legitimate claims for payment.
a1
Enclosure:
SCAPIN 1832/1, "Shortage of
Japanese Laborers", dated
January 16, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department.
850.4
RHBushner/blc
CS/V
UNCLASSIFIED
MAR 12 1948
ao
FILED

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 59,
dated January 27, 1948, from
the Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, entitled "Directive
Instructing the Japanese Govern-
ment to Take Additional Measures
to Overcome the Causes of Labor
Shortages."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 004.06 (16 Jan 48)GD
16 Jamuary 1948
(SCAPIN 1832/1)
D
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERIBENT
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJECT:
Shortage of Japanese Laborers
1. Reference your letter, C. L. O. No. 9917 (AG), subject as
above, dated 30 December 1947, which forwarded initial report of
progress required by paragraph 3, SCAPIN 1832.
2. The labor situation has not yet improved sufficiently, and
further vigorous action is necessary, particularly in regard to the
distribution of food and clothing rations to laborers. It is desired
that such action be taken without delay.
3. An additional report of progress (in duplicate) is desired
not later than 10 February 1948 and thereafter at ten day intervals
until further advice from General Headquarters.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
A. J. Rehe
for R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
NA - Mr. Bond
DATE: January 30, 1948
FROM :
ILli - Mr. Holland ω 
SUBJECT:
Japan: Suggested Decentralization of Administrative
Control over Labor Systems and Programs
Information received in this Division from Japan
indicates that the Labor Division, ESS, SCAP, is under
some pressure to agree to a move involving the transfer
Centr
RM/R
Inspection System and the mployment Security (Employment
Service) Pro ram from the  ational Government of Japan to 6
the governments of the various Prefectures. This pressure
cent dust Be Returned
has grown out of administrative changes contemplated as
a result of the recent passage of the Local Autonomy Law 5
by the Diet. Our information does not state whether the O
source or this pressure is from other Sections or Division
within SCaP or from the Japanese Government. Whichever
the case may be, the Labor Division is concerned and has
1
infornally requested that we forward to them material
they can use in maintainin their position that decen
30
tralization or thes particular administrative functions
would be undesirable. In view of the importance of 
this issue, however, we would like to inform you at 
this time of the views of this Division on the matter
in question.
CSE
We believe that decentralization or administrative
control in the fields of labor standards inspection and
BM
employment service programs would be unwise in that it
would move in a direc ion contrary to that dictated by
past experlence to be necessary for the efficient oper-
ation of such systems. International practice, as seen
in various Conventions and Recommendations or the
International Labour crganization, also supports this
position. The ollowin examples typify the fLo position
in regard to this problem.
A proposed convention of the International Labor
Organization, to be submitted to the Thirty-First
Session
894.50
4
8-h

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
Session in San Francisco in June of this year, stat
"The employment service shall consist of
a national systen or employment offices under the
control of a central authority." (artiole 2)
The drafting committee for this proposed convention,
consisting of 60 mewbers (30 government, 15 employers',
15 workers') representing many different countries
adopted this articl: without discussion. a step which
bears witness to the universality or the acceptance of
the soundness of this administrative practice.
Another convention or the ILo, concerning Labour
Inspections in Industry ani commerce adopted in 1947
states:
1. "So rar as is compatible with
Administrative practice or a He.iber, labour
inspection shali be placed under the super-
vision and control or a central authority."
(Article 4)
The qualiried language here, it should be pointed out,
is the result not of any question as to the desirability
of centralized control of the labor inspection function
but of the recognition of the practical impossibility
of securing a shift in the existing control systom in
countries such as the United States where such functions
are historically decentralized.
We are bringing this matter to your attention in
case this issue either comes to you for consideration
or the Department at any time in the near future reviows
policy in connection with the general problem of dooen-
tralization of Government powers in Japan. In either
case we would appreciate consideration being given to
the viewpoint of this Division in regard to the admin-
istrative arrangements for these two labor laws, and we
would be glad to discuss the matter in greater detail
with you at any time.
CC: A-S
OE
ITP
ILH:PBSulIivan:md
1/30/48

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Japan, February 7, 1948.
PAS
No. 78
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
DEPAI
andof the Central Labor Committee.
56
8
C
PM 3 05
1
894.504/2-748
OF STATE
C:
The Honorabe
The Secretary of State,
Waghington.
EB
Sir:
have the honor to enclose copies of a memorandum dated January 21,
1948 concerning a conversation (which is summarized below) with YONEkUBO
ATION
Mitsusuke, Minister of Labor; YOSHITAKE Eiichi, Vice Minister of Labor;
LH
KATSURA Takashi, Acting Chairman, Central Labor Committee; AYUSAWA Iwao,
Secretary-General of the Central Labor Committee; and two officers of this
FE
Mission. Subjects discussed were efficiency of Japanese labor; national-
ization of governmental administrative personnel; responsibilities of
Euklx
governmental agencies and the Central Labor Committee under Japanese labor
DR
laws; the Emperor and his trips through Japan; and encouragement of eco-
nomic disruption by Conmunists and ultra-conservatives.
Summary. Minister Yonekubo stated that present Japanese labor
legislation is equal to the best in the world, but has a long dis-
tance to go before being fully implemented. He stressed that lack
of'effietency of Japanese labor is a major hurdle and that there is
urgent ne'ed to awaken labor to its duties and responsibilities as
otherwise, he feels, raw materials and financial aid will not be
attracted to Japan.
Mr. Yoshitake said that a cut of 25% will be made among govern-
mntal administrative employees. However, since most governmental
agencies have less than their authorized personnel, this reduction
will reguire dismissal of only 5% of those presently employed.
Minister Yonekubo indicated that a bill similar to the Taft-
Hartley Labor Act had been proposed in Cabinet discussions but that
he strongly opposed it. He believes Japan's labor laws should be
amended to define more specifically the terms "dispute" and "act
of dispute". Mr. Katsura and Dr. Ayusawa intimated that Cabinet
Ministers have not taken full advantage of their statutory authority
to discipline employees. Mr. Yoshitake pointed out that labor union
officials usually refuse to accept responsibility for labor disorders.
Mr. Katsura observed that both communists and ultra-conservatives
welcome economic disruption as a means of undermining democratic
reform. Minister Yonekubo singled out the National Congress of
FILD
Industrial Organizations (Sambetsu) as strongly influenced by com
munists. He said communists are now shifting concentration of their
disruptive efforts from coal to transportation.
57
19
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.75)
CONVIDENTIAL
Tokyols No. 78,
February 7, 19hs
-2-
nitso Yonekon cp essed aopovai or the aperorts
inspestfon bri s as sti alat ia, oro detion but wee acphatic
in osir a c.cten  enet es  tho Emperors
rorH
topteto
11
slietol Advise.
CODAL

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.80)
CONPLDEN  (Por Departrent Use Only) Enelosure to Dempaton No.
J2t. Pebruary 7, 1948, fr
the Office of the United Stat
olitieal Advisor for Japan
,on the sub ject nComror
o ith orricials or the
inietr of Lavor and
Jentral Labor Comaitteo
1,1948
). :
ve Persommel
1ad the
ve,der Jaxuneso
Jo sts and
nr
ie ission
sher cor
oF;
,trel Levor
1e sentral
oftate
islation
is t al 
od
t, h vi von several
ti lese
tioe  r oranization
ato2Lond
distarce t
cted can e fully
duplee to
 l irove catislactory
to Jop if
icis Anorican labor
on te esis
vr1sits to Anorica
nea
 jof Anerican and
Japaee l r woto Lbbor
inister foneltato Jecled that there is a real need for an
additional cvapai  to e a .ese labor conscious of its duties
and responsicilities.   o a ajor point of stressing that Japan
must improve the etricieuey of ita labor. Ne declared that Japan
has the manpower and sills  ie' are essential for inereased pro
duction, but does not ve sufficient raw materials or means of
finanaing

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.68)
rl.rs No. 73.
71018.
wustrel
tion
woecd and
tt tne
alroduction
attex datoe coel
 in nes
Hogever,

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.73)
al. to Pokyole Neo 
Prary 7, 1943.
centers or
 w 
Les Cor unload
10
sir to
th
er
1

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Ddf
Tokyo, Japan, February 7, 1948.
No. 78
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
89
DEPAI
Subject: Conversation with Officials of the Japanese Miniry oLabor
and of the Central Labor Committee.
5
x
13
CEIVED
8
894.504/2-748
10
PM 3 05
The Ronorabte
The Secretary of State,
Waghington.
B
Sir:
FE
have the honor to enclose copies of a memorandum dated January 21,
1948 concerning a conversation (which is summarized below) with YONEkUBO
ATION
Mitsusuke, Minister of Labor; YOSHITAKE Eiichi, Vice Minister of Labor;
LH
KATSURA Takashi, Acting Chairman, Central Labor Committee; AYUSAWA Iwao,
Secretary-General of the Central Labor Committee; and two officers of this
FE
Mission. Subjects discussed were efficiency of Japanese labor; national-
ization of governmental administrative personnel; responsibilities of
Eunx
governmental agencies and the Central Labor Committee under Japanese labor
DYR
laws; the Emperor and his trips through Japan; and encouragement of eco-
nomic disruption by Conmunists and ultra-conservatives.
Summary. Minister Yonekubo stated that present Japanese labor
legislation is equal to the best in the world, but has a long dis-
tance to go before being fully implemented. He stressed that lack
of'effietency of Japanese labor is a major hurdle and that there is
urgent ne'ed to awaken labor to its duties and responsibilities as
otherwise, he feels, raw materials and financial aid will not be
attracted to Japan.
Mr. Yoshitake said that a cut of 25% will be made among govern-
mntal administrative employees. However, since most governmental
agencies have less than their authorized personnel, this reduction
will reguire dismissal of only 5% of those presently employed.
Aential File
Minister Yonekubo indicated that a bill similar to the Taft-
Hartlay Labor Act had been proposed in Cabinet discussions but that
he strongly opposed it. He believes Japan's labor laws should be
amended to define more specifically the terms "dispute" and "act
of dispute". Mr. Katsura and Dr. Ayusawa intimated that Cabinet
Ministers have not taken full advantage of their statutory authority
to discipline employees. Mr. Yoshitake pointed out that labor union
officials usually refuse to accept responsibility for labor disorders.
Mr. Katsura observed that both communists and ultra-conservatives
welcome economic disruption as a means of undermining democratic
reform. Minister Yonekubo singled out the National Congress of
Industrial Organizations (Sambetsu) as strongly influenced by com
FILED
munists. He said communists are now shifting concentration of their
disruptive efforts from coal to transportation.
C1
19
Minister
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.76)
Tokyola No. 7e,
CONVIDENTIAL
February 7, 1946
-2-
Hindao. e Fonekuoo c p essed aoppoval or the Baperorts
ins pestion brips as sti ulatia, pro aetion but wee ecphatic
in osir a cetctien r ovenit wes   tho Emperorls
s
opeto
li.tol Aivise.
DAL

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.74)
20 (Tepartrent  ae Only)nelosuce to Deepatch No 70
1 lebruary 7, 1948, from
fiicehe United State
l Loal Advisor for Japan
 sub joct Conven
i rictels of the
iieor or Labor and
otra? Laor Comuitteo
2
1,194
1th
oeso
ts 
istios
3
3.H
aton
i,hvi neverol
toLom
catislactory
ten labor
ts to Aorica
r Averica and
duistee ince 1 eed for an
addinrot c or conseios of its duties
und reeporsi ilisies.
o xint of st cessi that Japan
ust irprove tr et co.  t Teror. declared tret Jepan
has te rer s   e afel for fooreused pro
ductlou, docs  sipient ray materials or means of
financing

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.66)
.to ors No. 78
11048.
xuerriel
tion
wrec end
at tne
alproduction
04
s
llosever

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.72)
rl. to Tolots No
7194
cente s of
tes  vnioa
iut
0k

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.91)
OFFICE OF. THE UNITED.STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
PO. CY
FOR JAPAN
FEB 2450
Tokyo, February 13, 1948.
No. 98
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFTED
FEB 25 1948
LIVISISA 
LD NEALTH APPAIRS·LN
ubject: ubmission of Monthly Labor Report by Japanese Government.
894.504/2-1348
I
11 +
F
The Acting rolitical Adviser has the honor to enclose five
=E
7
copies of a directive issued by this Headquarters (SCAPIN 1852 of
OE
OCO
January 26, 1948) to the Japanese Government\instructing the
selR
Government to prepare and submit data concerning the number of
workers furnished to the Allied Forces and the amount of cash wages
and wages in kind paid to these workers. The report of the
Japanese Government, to be made monthly, must include a table show-
ing the various Allied organizations receiving labor services from
the Japanese Government and the extent of services rendered each
organization.
unclosure:
GH, SUAP, directive (SCAPIN
18 FLB 20 AM 9 16
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1852, January 26, 1948) con-
CS/V
cerning submission of a month-
RECEIVED
ly labor report by the Japanese
Gover ment (five copies).
9
C.
∑
19
0
EB3
F
850.4
594.504
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department.
MAR 1 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
FILHD
122

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 98, February 13, 1948.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRTE COFANDER FOR TH ALLID POWERS
APO 500
AG 004.06 (26 Jan 48 ) OGA
26 January 1948
(SCAPIN
1852
METMOR FDU FOR: JAPAUESE GOV RNENT
THRU:
Central Lieison Office, Tokyo
SUBJCT:
Submission of Monthly Labor Renort
1. References:
a. AG 001.3 (20 Oct 45) ESS, SCAPIN 260, dated 10 November
1945, subject: Monthly Labor Report.
b. AG 004.06 (19 Jul 47) OGA, SCAPIN 1749, dated 19 Ju1y 1947,
subject: Chanze of Submission Date of Monthly Labor Report.
2. References la and r are resoinded.
3. The Japanese Government will prepare and submit the following
certified data for each of the forty-six (46) Japanese prefectures, for
each mont!. beginning with January 1948, and each month therea ter:
a. Actual number of wor:ers furnished to the Allied Forces on
Labor Reguis: tion from the first through the last day of the month.
b. Actual number of workers furnished to the Allied Forces on
Frecurement Domand from the first through the last day cf the month.
c. Total amount of cash wages actually paid by the Japanese
Government to the laborert supplied to the Allied Forces on Labor Re-
quisition rom the first through the last day of the month.
d. Total amount of cash wages actually paid by the Japanese
Government to the leborers supplied to the Allied Forces on Procurement
'emand from the first through the last day of the month.
e. Tstimated value of wages in kind, suoh as food, furnished
by the Jananese Government, without cost, to laborers working for the
Allied Forces on Labor Requisition from the first through the last day
of the month.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
AG 004.06(26 Jan 48) 0GA
(SCAPIN
1852
f. Estimated value of wages in kind, suoh es food, furnished
by the Japenese Government, vithout cost, to laborers working for the
Allied Forces on Procurement Demand from the first through the.last day
of the month.
4. On cach roport shall appear the actual breakdown of each item
of data detailed in paragraph 3 above that should be chargod to:
United States Ary (exoluding Air Foreo)
United States Air Force
United States Navy
United States Marine Corps
Unitod States State Derartment
United States Maritime Commission
Ja. an Oil Storage Comcany
Amerion Red Cross
Foreign Li :uidation Comaission
Atomic Bomb Casus.lty Commission
Far Rastern Comnission
Far Fastern Advisory Commission
International Hlitar' Tribunal Far Mast
United M.tions Nutional Reliof Administration (UNRA)
Allied Coincil
International Reliof Comaittee
Australia
Canada
Cina
Donnark
France
Great Britain (BCOF)
Nethorlands
New Zealand
Philipuines
Portugal
Spain
Sweden
Switgorland
Russia
All Others not listed horeon
5. The rerort will be submitted to the Supreme Commander for the
Alli d Powers, attention: General Accounting Soction und is due on
the 2 th of the onth: following the period reported.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.93)
AG 004.06(26 Jan 48) 0GA
(SCAPIN
1852
E. Direct com unication between the General Accountin Seotion,
Goneral Headquarters, Suprome Commander for the Allied Powors, and the
Lahor S ction, Accommodat on Division, Special Procurement Board, con-
cornin matters  ithin the scope of this memorandum is authorized.
FORHE SUPR COHANDTR:
agπehe
for
R. IEVY,
Colcnel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.92)
batt
UNITED STAT3S POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
POLICY
Tokyo, February 13, 1948.
1948 MAR 2 PM 4 23
Ho. 95 (For Use of Department Only)
CONFIDENTIAL
MESSAGE CENTER
BIM
DIvsibg
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
JUL 1 5 1948
SUBJECT: Comments Regarding the Labor Situation in Japan.
MAR 1 AM 10
PARTA
RECEIVED
30
DEPAMEN OF STATE
TMFUT OF
8
894.504/2-1348
The Hongrable
The Secretary of State,
, OAL
3
2
s0:
I have the honor to transmit for the information of the
2
Dopartment copy of A study entitled "Policies to Cope with the
Impending Econonic/Collapse of Japan" prepared by a committee of
ACTID
meabers of the Industrial Club of Japan under the direction of
ILH FE
TonA Toyotaro, Adviser to the Club, and voluntarily submitted to
COPIES
this Mission on February 6, 1948 for its consideration. There is
1O:11
also enclosed copy of a statement entitZed "Need of Changing
Labor Policy as the Fundamental Prereghisite for Economic Re-
dE
habilitation of Japan" prepared by KIraoka Juitsu, former Chief of
A=S
the Japanese Delegation to the International Labour Organization,
and voluntarily submitted to this Mission on January 30, 1948 for
CP
3
its consideration. In this connection, copy of memorapdum regard-
IR
ing the collective bargaining contract between the Mitsubishi Heavy
euRIx
Industry Company, Limited, and the Zeh Nippon Kiki Trade Uniom is
enclesed as of possible interest to the Department.
OCX
DC/R
The positiom is taken in the enclosed Industry Club Committee
study that labor unrest is the most serious impediment to Japants
economic recovery and the opinion exprossed that so leng as it
xn
persists, meither domestic nor foreiga capital will be attracted to
C
Japamese industry. In order to miaimize labor unrest, the Committee
41.
urges that measures be taken te elimimate communist influence from
labor unions and that labor legislation presently in force be
02D
revised. The view is expressed that the Trade Union Act (passed by
the Diet in October l945) has resulted in the comfusion of demecracy
7
with cemmunism in the mimds of most of the Japanese people and should
be amended so as to ensure the neutrality of labor relations boards,
te prescribe an orderly collective bargaining procedure, to prohibit
JUL
unfair acts by workers, to defime more clearly those representatives
o employers: imterests, and no longer to permit government employess
to becomo members of unioms. As for the Labor Standards Law (passed
11948
by the Diet in February 1947), the Cemmittee regards it as premature,
too idealistic, and a luxury which Japan can ill-afford at present,
and furthermore, "tends to make labor fully conscious of all its
rights but only faintly conscious of all its obligations". In the
opimion of the Cemmittee, the provision that conditions must be such
as would meet the need of the worker who lives a life "worthy of a
human
CONFIDENTIAL
