894.20240 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Europe Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., February (File 1506)
ID: 894.20240-1506   Pages: 100   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20240-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
SUPREME HEADQUARTERS
ALLIED EXPEDITIONARY FORO
MAR 3 1945
Political Orrioe, US
MR. DUNN
26 February 1945
Dear Jimmy:
I have elayed in answering your letter of 23 January
unti: it was possible to talk to Stanley Hornbeck and John
Allison in London. I was not able to get over myself, but
Bob Pell had to make the trip in connection with his work
with G-2, and talked to them both for me in London.
e are in full agreenent that u center for Japanose in-
telligenc, be set up as early as possible. For the prosent
it seens desirable tht this should be set up in London be-
cause it looks us tiough the joint Anglo-American lotivity
is crystalizing in Lonuon. At the same time a fieid ropro-
sentutive would continue to work with the mobile military
group now part of shaef. It was in this sense tht Bob
Murphy recommendeu that Bob Pell be attached to his staff
in oruer that ne might continue the contact wnich now, aftor
several months' work, has been firnly established and i
bearing results. John Allison would be the Direotor in
Lonuon and we suggest that a circular be sent to the mission
in Europe informing them of the establishment of the conter
and instructing them to keep allison currently informed
through safe channels of Japanese activities in oach area
and to reply promptl, to such request for information as he
may address to them. I assume likewise that the Department
would inform the War ana Navy Departments, notably M.I.D.
and O.N.I., of the establishment, location and composition
of the center. The British Government would also prosumably
have to be informed through the proper channels that Allison
is the Department's authorized agent in this field in London
In this connection I enclose copies of (a) Stanloy
The Honorable
M
James Clement Dunn,
Assistant Seoretary of Stat
Washington.
2
21945

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Hornbeck's letter to me on the subject (b) John Allison
Memorandum dealing with the coordination or Japanese intel-
ligence, (c) a Memorandum which Bob had prepared for dis-
cussions with R. Murphy and me prior to his London trip, and
(d) the G-2 Directive setting up a special Japanese seotion
at Shaef with which the Department's representative would
continue to work. Bob Pell likewise talked the matter over
with Waldy Gallman while in London wno authorized him to say
that he was sure the proposal would have the full support of
the London Enbassy and that he hoped the Department, by fur-
nishing personnel to assume his extraneous responsibilitios,
would make it possible for Jonn Allison to give his full at-
tention to the Far Eastern field.
I believe the rorogoing with its enclosures should give
you the conposite or our thinking on this side. I also at-
tach for your inforwation a copy of a secret report of Liouto-
nant Comanuer Abbott to is principals on Japanese activitios
in Europe wicn contains in summarized form the results of
Bob Peli's trip to Switzerlanu. This report has as an annox a
microfilm of Japanese documents wnich is going forward to you
unuer separate cover.
With all best wishes,
Yours as ever
Jau
c.c. John Allison

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
near the Netherlands Gover
5, Grosvenor Square
London, W. 1.
February 19, 1945.
Dear Sam:
I have read your letter of February 1& and its
enclosures, notably the correspondence exchanged with
Jimmy Dunn; I have talked with Pell and Allison; and
I share your interest in the problem of coordimatimg
and centralizing certain types of activity in Burope
relating to Japan.
Without a doubt our Government should have such
information as may be available in Europe regarding
Japanese dealings with European Governments, organiza-
tions, enterprizes and persons, and should be in a
position to know--as much as these things can be kmowe
in what activities, hidden as well as open, the Japemese
are engaged and what their aims and objects may be.
Moreover, I agree with Jimmy that it would be appre-
priate to assign to John Allison, with London as a cemter,
responsibility with regard to the gathering of such imfor-
mation, and to Bob Pell, working closely with Johm,
responsibility for continuance of operations in this
connection with the mobile unit in the field.
In brief, I endorse this proposal in principle, but
if I were called upon to vote yes or no on it I should
vote yes only if it were attended with certain speeifiea-
tions and commitments.
First, I favor the plan only if it invelves a eare-
fully considered decision on the part of the Departmemt
to give the project adequate personnel and facilities,
and to see it through. I have seen all too many sweh
be suddenly discontinued. We should not disregard the
faet
Sammel Rober, Esquire,
priesn kbassy,
Paris, Franee.
SKH:1gh

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
compete) both with and against professional le
support. We should not try to do this thing im a sido-
show fashion or on a shoe string basis.
Second, if John Allison--or anyone else--is to be
given this responsibility, it should be arranged that
his whole time and whole erfort should be devoted te is.
John might continue with his present work of coneermimg
himself with Far Eastern political problems as they afree
Anglo-American relations and might take on the respomsiba
lity involved in this contemplated plan; but if he takes
on the latter, he should be relieved of any other
responsibilities. Adequate handling of the two subjeets
indicated would be a full time job and might well eall for
the whole attention not only of one officer but of seme
staff. This point should, in my opinion, be made clear
in any directive which might be formulated with regard to
this part of the proposed plan.
With regard to operations in the country to whieh I
am accredited (the Netherlands), the Department will
assume, I am sure, that the contemplated organisation will,
if it comes into being, have my interest and support. I
should not expect to find the Netherlands Government
unsympathetic or remiss in the premises; that Govermmemt
is alive to and is seriously concerned regarding the broed
problem of "the Japanese".
What I have learned of the situation which prevails
in France, and to a lesser extent in Belgium, with regard
to current handling (or failure to handle) of the Japemese,
causes me to believe that something should be done whish,
if done, might be more helpfully important in its effeets
than would any operations which may be undertaken in the
absence of such action. It would seem to me that our
Government and the Governments of our major Allies, and
our military and navel people should feel seriously
concerned regarding that situation; and that they should
be indicating to the French authorities in no uneertaim
terms that tolerance and continuance of that situatiom is
a disservice to the common cause and effort of the Allies.
The vigor with which action is taken toward cleaning up
that

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
-8.
which embark on a procedure of keeping an eye e 
activities of the Japanese in Burope as a whole.
I am sorry I have not had the pleasure of looking
into your countenance since my arrival on "this side";
and I hope that I may have that pleasure, either here
or in Paris or elsewhere, in the not distant future.
Memnwhile, it 1s pleasant to have seen Bob.
With every best wish--I am, always.
Yours sincerely,
STANLEY K. HORNBECK
SKH:1gh

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
CRET
COPY
MEMORANDUM TO: Robert T. Pell
FROM: John M. Allison
SUBJECT: courcination of Japanese Intelligence
Shoulu it be deciued to set up an organization to coor-
uinate Japanese intelligence, both military anu non-military,
and snoulu, as contemplateu, I be uesignated to run the or-
ganization in London, I believe the following points should
be carefully considered:
1. If this work is to be properly done it will take
considerable time and I believe that some arrangement should
be nade to relieve me of the extruneous matters at the Embassy
with w.ich I am now charged. I should, of course, want to
continue the work I am uui  in following Far Rastern mattors
as they affect Anglo-american relations and should expoot to
continue ay coitacts with the Foreign Office on this subjoot.
However, the additional work on Far Eastern intelligonoe could
naturally be allied to t.lis. At the present time, in addition
to work with the Far astern Jepartment of the Foreign Offioe,
I am charged with work on uropean Inland Transport Organiza-
tion, the United Nations Shipping Pool, CIoS work, and have
been in the past and night in the future be detailed for work
in connection with international whaling and fishing confer-
ences which have taken place in London. With the exoeption
of the CIoS work, none of tuese matters have even a remote
connection with the Far astern situation at presont and they
all take time for meetings anu conferences. It probably will
be necessary for me to continue CIos work for some time but
that shoulu not be too great a burden if the other responsi-
bilities can be shifted to someone lse.
2. The 3tate Jepartment shoulu make it clear in
wasnington to the war and Nivy Departments that I am the of-
ficial State Department representative in London on intolli-
gence matters unu therefore shoulu receive from these depart-
ments and tueir representatives in London the nocessary coo-
eration.
3. If it is desired that contact be mde with British
agencies interested in this general field, it is believed
that the British should be notified turough the proper channols
that I an the authorized State Department agent.
4. If the present plan goes into effect, I suggest that
it might be useful for me to spend two or three days with you
at Shaef headquarters in order that I may learn what has been
done, what is being done and some of the methods followed so

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
that I will be in a better position to coordinate the
in London. You may feel that this would not be nooosmery
I am only suggesting it for your considoration.
(signed) J. M. A.
London February 19, 1945

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRBT
Memorandum for the Honorable Sammel Reber
and
The Honorable Robert D. Murphy
1. There is cumulative evidence that the Japanese are lay-
ing the basis now for tneir post-war intelligonee in Europe.
2. Inrormation available woula indicate that the Japanose
have few illusions regaruing tneir present desperate position
and the probable outcome or what they frankly Look upon as the
first round or their struggle with the United States. As a con-
sequence they are projecting thoir thinking ahead to the second
round and are planning to araw neavily upon Europe for teeamieal
assistance and the sinews of reconstruction and war.
3. There are reliable indications also tnat in the intolli-
gence riela the Japanese are graaually cutting Loose from the
Germans ana are establianing an intelligence heaaquarters in
Switzerlana, apparently in Zurich, from which they have begun to
operate in several airections and areas.
4. On tne American side Japanese counter-intelligenoe i
concentrated in G-2, Shaer, with the OSS engaging in some "blaek
activity, and tne Political Orrice, Shaer, giving general sup-
port to G-2.
5. The British have a mission with the Japanese Sub-Seotion,
G-2, Snaer, including representatives or the Royal Navy, the
Army and the RAF, ana the British SOE, under the Foreign Orrioe,
is exceedingly active indeed in this fiela.
o. Tne French through tneir Special Services, notably S
and the Admiralty, take a desultory interest in the Japanese.
Altnough they would like to strike out independently they are
teaming up with tne British through necessity and as a result or
the British control of botn groups in the London and Algiers per-
iods tnrough SOE.
7. Nothing is known about the Russian aotivity in this fiola.
8. The other Allies are not known to nave made any spooial
provision for Japanese counter-intelligence and whatever aotivity
they may undertake in tnis sphere is strictly in conjunotion with
ana unuer the control or the British through Sok.
9. Not only do the British nave a virtual monopoly of Japan-
ese counter-intelligence now, but tney nave laid careful plans
ror the future, botn in the periods immediately ahead - that is
in the SCAkF ana Control Council periods - and in the Long range
post-war period. Their ofricers assigned to Shaef are assigned
also to the Control Commission and will be assimilated to the
Control Council machinery. Sok will carry over into the post-war.
l0. As matters now stand there is no provision for the con-
tinuation or the American services beyond the SCa perioa.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
SECRET
11. Accoraingly it woula seem essential to provide now for:
(a) Tne inclusion of Japanese counter-intelligonoo
in the American macninery to be set up under the
Control Council for Germany;
(b) The continuation of tlis service in the post-war.
12. Anything wnich you can do to promote (a) will be appro
ciated.
13. In connection with (b) it is nighly desirable that Japan-
ese counter-intelligence in Europe in the post-war be built on
the Ame ican side (the British nave this already tnrough Sog) aroumm
the kernel of close collaboration between tne Army, tne Navy and
the Department of State. Tne practical value of this method of
procedure nas been demonstrated vivialy since September in the
Liberated areas of Western Europe where the tnree servioes by
cooperating closely nave producea results or mutual interest and
aavantage which would have been lacking had any one service at-
tempted to carry out tnis mission singlehanded.
It is aesirable, moreover, tnat the airection of tnis
activity be concentrated in one "control tower" and not split up,
as it was berore tne war, among several unrelated military, navai
and diplomatic missions with no central focal point.
Tnere was a tentative precedent for collaboration or
this sort during the pre-war years in the Department of State's
European Information Center to whicn Army and Navy ofricers were
assigned. Tneoretically this was a bureau for the exchange or
inrormation between American ofrices in Europe, but it beoame
something more ana, had it not been disoontinued, might have Lent
itselr as a cover to a userul Army-Navy-State collaboration in
the counter-intelligence fiela. Something of tnis sort might be
revived on a modest plane, to begin with, say, as part of the
machinery under tne Control Council and later at some central,
but not major capital point, as, ror instance, The Hague. This
suggestion is thrown out merely as a tnought teaser. The impor-
tant thing is that serious thought shoula be given without delay
to tne future of American counter-intelligence in general in
Europe and specirically to American counter-intelligence (Japanose).
Robert T. Pell
SECRET

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRE
COPY
SUPREE HEADUARTERS
ALLIED EXPEDITIOLARY FORCE
Ofrice of Amsistant Cuier of Staff, G-2
Main Headyuarters.
1 February 1945
INTELLIGENCA DIRECTIVE
NUMBER24.
DIRECTIVE ON LANDING OF JAPANESE INTELLIGENGE
I.
OBJECT
1. To lay uown the procedure for the nanuling of infor-
nation available in urope coicerning Japan or Japanese act-
ivities, which is of operational inportance to the Allied
ilitary Authorities responsible for the conuuct of the war
in tne Pacific.
II. ORG.ATION
2. a Jupanese intelligence Jection, whose personnel
represents the dairalty, War rrive, Air Ministry, War De-
partment and Navy Jepart..ent, ha, been constituted and is
attacheu to G-2 upreme Heau. uarters, A.E.F.
III. MISSION
3.
Tais section nas been assigneu the responsibility
Tor Jupanese Intelligence in this Theater. Its tasks inolude
the scrutin, sirting anu preliminary analysis of the data
recovered, ana its transmission with appropriate priority to
the allieu ilitury nutn rities concerned.
IV. TARGETS
4.
Japanese Intelligence oojectives, hereafter called
targets, may incluue inaiviauals, materiel, aocuments ana doc-
ument locations. rersons may be eitner uropean or Asiatic;
documents muy be written in Japanese, Chinese or in any other
language.
V.
INTARROGATION
5.
In oruer to obtai. the fullest value from nigh
priority Japanese targets, it will be necessury to i.iterrogate
individuals incluuing Japanese subjects. Japanese-speaking
officers are available ut Supreme Heauyuarters, A... to
carry out whatever interrogations are necessary. Instructions
will be issued later regaruing the method of hanuling Japanose
detained for interrogation.
VI. DOC U.LENTS
0.
It is the responsibility of all Intelligence Staffs
including "T" forces to eek out and safeguard all documents
dealing with Japan. Known targets will be promulgated with
appropriate priority assignnents through "T" Sub-Division or
G-2, Suprane Headyuarters, A.E.F.
7. Documents or ther information relating to Japan
and Japanese activities in Europe will not normally be released
for local exploitation, but will be sent back through Intel-
ligence ohannels direct to G-2 Documents Section, Supreme
Headquarters, A.E.F., with operational priority.' In the
event or this proving impracticable, owing to their bulk,
condition, etc., the Japanese Section, G-2, Supreme Head-
action may be taken. Japanese-speaking ofricers wilk

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
available at Suprene neau. uarters, A.E.F., to visit lower
formations, to auvise on such uocuments as roquired.
VII DISPOSITION
8. Japanese docwaents deened to be of technioal, tao-
ticl or strutegic importance will be reproauced and forwardod
simultaneously to the Adairulty, War Orfice, Air Ministry,
ur Depurtuent nu Nuvy Jepart ent by G-2, Supreme Hoadyuar-
ters, ... other Jupunese uocuments wiil be turneu over by
the Japanese Section, G-2, Suprene dead uarters, A.E.F. for
any disposition consiuereu uppropriate. The Documents Section
w ll mii .tain ut its center copies of all material dissominated
to the nilit ry authorities by the Japanese Section. Original
docuaents un. those incapable of rsproduction will be forwardod
either to lasningt n or to London, depending on which is the
prine research uithority on the subject concerned.
9. Agencies collecting static Intelligence in roar aroas
may come u, n docunents relating to Japan or Japanese aotivi-
ties in r e. jucn uocuaents are to be consiuereu as "or
operational importance" anu hanaleu is in parugruph 7.
uirection of tne Supreme Commandor:
.B. SMITH
Lieutenant General, Us Army
Ciel ortuff
OFFICIAL
K.W.D. STRONG
Ma jor General, GS
A C of S G-2

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.94)
SECP
ALLYED EXPEDITIONARY PORGE
Offiee of Assistant Chief of staff,0-2
MAIN HRADQUARTERS
Serial W.A.-1001
SECRET
13 February 1945
Memerangum
for Intelligerme Offieer, Commander
U. S. Maval Forees in Earope
Subject: Japanese Aetivities in Burope
Reference (a) C.N.0. Conridential letter of 23 Decem-
ber, 1944 serial 02843816 0p-16-B-7-0,
Subjeet: Japanese Consulate at Marseilles.
Franee;
(b) Com Mav For France Seeret Despaten for
Captain Shelley of 23 January, 1945.
Enclosure (A) Copy of Seeret Memorandum for Head,
Counter-Intelligence Sub-Division, G-2
Division Supreme Headquarters, Allied
Expeditionary Foree with mierofilm em-
olosure of French Doeuments covering Pre-
Viehy Period.
1. Referenee (b) was forwarded to serve as a basis
for an interim reply to referemee (a). melesure (A)
sets forth all data available to reporting offieer at
this time on the more general subjeet.
2. In order to proteet sources of offieial deeu-
mentation, it has been considered advisable to limit
distribution of this repert to the serviees whose feeil-
ities permitted these data to be compiled.
3. It is requested, therefore, that the erriee of
Maval Intelligenee, the Military Intelligemee Serviee
and the Department of State be so advised.
4. Attentiom is invited to the faet that at the
present time there is meither Ameriean mor British Maval
represemtatios in Switserlamd. It will, therefere, be
difrieult to maintain a continuous flow of infermation
frem that cemter.
Lt. Comr.,U....
Copt to: Cem Nav Joe Prence
(Intelligenee errieer)

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
SECR
SUPRES EEADQUARTERS
ALLIED EXPEDITIONARY FORGE
Office of Assistant Chier of Staff,0-2
MAIN HRADQUARTERS
Serial W.A-1000
SECRET
13 February 1945
Memorandum for Head, Counter Intelligemee Sub-Division
0-2 Division, Supreme Headquarters, Allied
Expeditionary Poree.
Subjeet: Japanese Aotivities in Kurope, Estimmte of the
Situation.
Enclosure (A) French Doouments covering Pre-Vieny Period
OEIERAL
1. Since 1, Oetober, l944, efforts have beem mmde
through the ohannels available at this headquarters to
determine:
(a) What is the ofrioial attitude and rela-
tionship of the provisional governments of liberated
portions of Europe to Japan.
(b) How such polieies are refleeted in the
planning activities of the Intelligenee Services of suen
governments.
(o) What regulatory measures have been taken
to break up and render impotent Japamese subwersive er-
ganizations in liberated territories.
(d) What Intelligenee concerning the Japanese
and their allies was available for exploitation by Al-
lied Intelligemee Serviees.
ORDOTIVE
2. It was hoped that the answers to (a) and (b)
would be useful to Allied operational starrs in deser-
mining the extent and quality of participatiom of Uaited
Natieme Allies in the war in the Pasirie As the seme
time, it was eansidered desirable to bring to the astem-
sion ef agensies eharged with sseurity and counter-la-
telligenee respemsibilities, any evidemee available
intellí
mighs be ebeaimed.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
METHOD OF ATTACK
3. Informal enquiry among allied Intelligenee ses-
of the Far East. That this apathy was supepfrsial beeem
fease Mational protested strongly to the SHak Missien
against the continuous stream of Allied  fricers making
duplicate requests to French ministries for Far Besterm
information.
4. This protest, which was conourred in by the
Minister or Colonies, through Mr. Coulet, was quiekly
followed up by a direetive to French serviees frem the
Defense National, that Far Eastern intelligemee avail-
the Deuxieme Bureau of the Defense National aleme, amd
in the days immediately after its promulgation, Gemeral
Juin's Chief of Staff, Capitaine de Vaisseen Barjet en
detached serviee from the French Admiralty, personally
arranged interviews and olearances for conferemees with
lower echelons.
5. Lack of organization, engendered by the liber-
ation of Paris, the muration, and the arrival of mew
agencies from Algiers contributed to the somewhat ais-
interested atmosphere eneountered in French agemsies
when the Japanese were mentioned. In general their "lime"
might well be deseribed as a "yes-but" one. Yeg, we sup-
pose we are at war with the Japanese. General de Gaulle
stated as much in Algiers last summer. mt, we have
to think of Indo-China where there are Fremek people
and Freneh property. They must he protested. Then the
variation on this theme. Yes, we are organising an
expeditiomary foree for the Far East, bt we are alse
trying to introduse now blood into our Intelligemse
services there, so we must be very carerul in our treat-
ment or Japanese and Japanese properties here.
6. Following several weeks of conferemees, thure
was tranamitted on 12 November, 1944 to the Direetien
Geaerale Serviees Speciauz, a list or Japanese residents
in Franee togetker with a list of Japanese believed se
be in Paris at that time with the request that they be
skeeked wisa sae Fereign orriee to elimimate indivi-
eals whese errises and resldenees were cevered by ds-
2

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
without saying that appropriate security measures against
them had long sinee been instituted.
8. M. Massigli or the Foreign Orriee took a mest
favoreble stand with respest to our projest in a elear
ments had been conaluded between the Provisional Gev
erament of Franee and any third power coneerning the
protection of Japamese nationals and their property, and
that any agreements mmde by Viehy were of course not
binaing.
9. On 21 November, 1944 the Etat-Major, Bureau de
Seeurite Militaire of the Military Government of Paris
constituted a commission directed by mseigme de Vaimsees
Mortier (a recently commissioned enlisted mam) and eom-
prising one inmpector of polioe, which was ordered te
visit Japanese dwellings and to:
(a) Seareh for and apprehend enemy agents
Left benind after the liberatiom;
(b) Seize userul dosuments.
10. Almost before it started operations, the Fremen
Commission was stopped by Swiss Diplomats who pretested
the Commission's entry and referred the matter to the
Freneh Foreign Orrice. Meamwhile, M. Massigli mad left
for London as French Ambassador there, and after severel
weeks of delay, the Foreign Orriee reversed its fermer
pesition and dirested the Securite Militaire to respeet
all Swiss motioes of proteotion.
1l. Since the efforts of the Commission were almest
entirely frustrated by diplomatic seals everymhere, imelue-
ing the Japamese Club or Paris, the orrices of the South
Manehurian Railways and the homes of nom-diplomatie per-
sonmel, the mmtter was referred to the Politieal Orrieers
of this headquarters. They are now attemptins, tarough
the Allied Eabassies in Paris, to reaeh an usderstanding
with the Freneh Government to have the Swiss seals remeved.
JAPANESE NATIONALS IN PARTS
12. Br considerable interest was the reaetiom in the
of iarermation to the Pelitieel Ofriee, Sheer, whe is

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRBT
said that the perquimition was handled in sueh a way thas
they had time to "nide" suoh objeets as might have eaused
ambarrassment and to warm their Freneh friemds. In this
conneetion, Mr. Numasawa, Secretary or the Japamese Glub.
7 rue de Debareadere (one of the locations cevered by
Swiss proteoton) is said to have been informed by high
orricials of the Prefecture tmt the action on the part
or the Frenen was taken merely to plaeate the Amerieams
"ana wus not serious."
13. The same souroe reports that the Frenon poliee
organizutions and miuistries are using as a pretext to de
Little Jr nothing the fact that Kamimura Saimo, a Japamese
believed to have been active in the Greater Bast Asia Sesiesy
1s employed as a cook by an American ofrieial or the Ofrise
of War Inrormtion. Responsible Frenou authorities are
saia to have observea that if Amerieans employ Japamese.
they can not expect the Frenah to take too seriously their
request to rouna up Japanese subjeots in Paris.
14. Ciroumstanees attending the employment of Kamémare
are under investigation at the present time by appropriate
military autnorities in view or the report that wit was
arranged" that the previous cook's expenses should be too
high ana tnat ne be replaced by Kamimura.
15. Kamimura, a man or about rifty, 1s known to mave
been a resident or France ror twenty years, und is deseribed
as an intelligent, eaucated Japanese, a type not momally
found in domestie serviee. He is believed to have some
knowledge or English and is reported to have beem presems
while the most seeret details or the American propegande
organization in Europe were discussed over a dinser teble.
1o. A translation from a report on tis imaividual pre-
pared ror the Assistant U. S. Politieal Orrieer to Sheet,
is set forth below:
"During the German ocoupation, Kamimara werked
from time to time in Paris wither with a Germmn or with a
White Russian who earried on blaek market activisies fer
the Gerans.
"At the time or the evaeuation of Paris by the
Largest portion or the Japamese Coloay, Kamimere was ed-
wanted to join tae convey, a plase had beem reserved for
him ia tae orriee or the Japanese Military Asteeke La

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
Sooiety or Paris, Numazawe, 7 rue de Debaroadere, who semt
him every day a aubstantial pareel."
17. An interesting commentary on the Freneh orgami-
zation dealing with internal Japanese proble is set
forth in the following translation of a report provided
by the same confidential souroe:
"Lieutemant Guedy, who is looking after Japanese
questions at the Securite Militaire is, as we thoughs, a
reserve orricer. In pemce time, he is a proressor of
nistory or Literature at a Lyeee or College. He has
held his present job only sinoe the liberation.
"Knowing little or nothing about Japamese massers,
he has called on the Japanese themselves, in partieular.
Mr. Numazawa, Secretary of the Japanese Club or Paris, ia
order to document himmelf. Thus, the people he smoula pus
under surveillance are those who supply him with inrermm-
tion.
"Sinoe ne is indebted to the Japanese for earsain
information, ne is making a show of doing favors for them.
To quote Mr. Numazawa, he has already done a good deal ame
the Japanese in Paris are grateful to him.
"Aotually, Lieutenant Guedy is looking for Fremen
women who may have been the mistresses of the Japemese
and among other things he asked Mr. Numazaya ir he didm't
personally know whom these women were. Numazawe's reply
was negative.
"Japanese who had serious attachments to Frenen
women stayed in Paris. The only exoeptions were Mr. Ishimwe
and Mr. Dan.
"At the present time the inquiry concerning .
Saito*she only Japamese presently detained is finisked.
following the final interrogation whioh Lieutemant Geedy
put nim through. He will soon be freed. The only other
Japazese detained in Franee is Mr. Aoyama* amtiquarian
from the Quai Seint Miohel who was arrested and is in a
prisen at Ronen. Lieutenant Guedy has triee to intereede
on his behalr but without suecess. Rouen hes e eertein
ausenomy.
"With reference to other matters, the Japasese
Ceasular autnorities, not eontent with havins lert a gmrasem
at the Chaneellery or the Eabasay, 24 rue Greame, and
amether at te Ambassader's rosidense, 7 Avenue Meel
.b. ir. saite and r. Leyem heave now beom frod.
-5

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
Serial W.A.-1000
SBCRET
with the partioular mission of keeping olose waten on
these locations. As a result, Mr. Shi1ma (Somoji) (11
triots, where all questionsstouehing the Japaaese in Paris
are disoussed."
JAPANESE CONSULAR PERSONNEL
18. On the 22na of January, 1945, the souree or the
above information reported the following date set ferth im
translation:
"Yesterday, I learned about a faet of whieh I
was completely ignorant. The Japamese Consul at Marseilles,
Takawa Hiroshi, his Chaneellor, Mr. Suyematsu Masaki and 
police protection. The three Japanese were takem inte em-
tody, their papers and effeets confiseated and they have
been detained sinee that time at Perpignan.
"A letter from the Swiss Iabessy (in Paris) to
the Securite Militaire (presumably of the Military Geverm-
ment of Paris) called the attention of that agemey to the
their liberation and their transfer to Paris where Mr.
Shiina, an old mployee of the Japanese Embassy (at pre-
sent the guardian of the Chaneellory and the residemee of
the Japanese Ambassador in Paris) and Mr. Morita, the pre-
sent president of the Japanese Colony in Paris guaramteed
to pay not only for the expense of the traasfer of these
individuals to Paris, but also for their maintemamee during
their stay in Paris. This guarantee was given to the Swiss
Rabassy.
"On the other hand, a letter frem the Ministay
(Freneh) suggests the liberation of these Japanese and the
oign Arraire suggests to the Misister of the Interier
eities.
papers tamm frm
6

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
interesting and even important ones. On the other hand,
Mr. Takawa being a man who Loses lis head rather easily
may perhaps have lert in the Marseilles consulate at 12 rue
de Coq or at his house 15 cours Joseph Thierry some im-
teresting doeuments. Who knows? perhaps a code - which
would not neeessarily be one in use today. Ian't there
indieatea a surprise searah there?"
The correspondenee referred to is set forth below:
(Letter from Swiss Legation)
"47 B 9/44
Interets Japanais
"Mon Commandant
"Arrestation du Consul du Japon a Marseille et de ses eella-
borateurs.
"Confirmant l'information pue mon collaborateur Measieur
Renaud, a fait a votre service il y a quelques temps as
sujet de l'arrestation de Monsieur Tokava, aneion Comsul
du Japon a Marseille, de Monsieur Masaki Suematsu, Chande-
lier et de Monsieur Toshio Takiyasu employe dudit somsulat,
j'ai 1'hoanour de vous communiquer ci-apres les remseigme-
ments detailles que j'ai pu obtenir sur ces arrestations.
"Les trds fonotionnaires precites ont quitte Marseille
1e 18 aout 1944 pour se rendre en Espagae, ils sont arrives
a Perpignan Le soir du 19 aout, des combats ayant liou dams
cette derniere ville, ils n'ont pu poursuivre leur veyage
et se sont presentes a la Police Centrale, ils ont ete mis
an prison, puis le 21 aout 1ls ont ete transferes a la
Citadelle, ou 11s resterent pendant 20 jours. Ce n'est
que le 9 Septembre qu'ils ont ete transreres de la Cite-
delle a l'Hotel surveille ou ils se trouvent emoore ee-
tuellement.
"A La Poliee Centrale, les trois fonetionmaires Japemats
ont ete fouilles, tous leurs effets personnels et meme lears
papiers d'idemtite leur ont ete enleves, lls ne sont meme
plus em possessiom de leurs passeports. La voiture aute-
mobile orricielle a egalement ete requisitionnse.
"Je vous scrais infiniment recoamaissant de vouleir
a Paris.
7

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
"Je remets copie de la presente lettre au Ministre
des Afraires Etrangeres, pour sa documentation.
"Veuilles agreer, mon Commandant, l'assuranee de m
consideration distinguee.
"Le Cher de Division
"Au Commandant de Roquemorel
Securite Militaire
24 Boulevard Malesherbes - Paris"
(Foreign Orrice Note to Surete Nationale)
"DIRECTION DES TRANGERS ET DES PASSPORTS ETRANGERS
"Le Ministre des Arfaires Brem
"Surete Nationale
"j'a1 1'Honnour de vous tranamettre, sous ee pli,
copie d'une lettre adressee par la Legation de Suisse -
Interets Japo ais - a la Securite Militaire, au sujet
de l'arrestation de l'ancien consul du Japan a Marseille
et de deux de ses collaborateurs, par les Autorites de
Polioe de Perpignan.
"En raison des repereussions graves que eette mesure
pourrait provoquer sur le sort des Franeais residams em
territoire controle par les Japonais, je vous serais eb-
lige de vouloir bien envisager d'urgenee la pessibilise
de faire liberer Mm Tokawa, Suematsu et Takiyasu. Les
interesses pourraient etre invites a designer ume residenee
de leur ehoix, ou ils demoureraient sous La surveillanse
de la Poliee. Leur sejour dans la region de Paris, ou
dans les grands centres urbains, serait toutefois è eviter.
"j'attasherais du prix a etre tenu au courast, aue-
sitot que possible, des mesures que vous aures pu prendse
pour faire liberer ees etrangers."
OTHER JAPANERB XN PRANCTE
19. Arter having consulted ofrieial documests, the
turbed by the absemee or detailed infemation on eme
s epínion was that tais iadividual migkt still be in
Marsdkles, gmrding deeumeats at the resieence of the
Censul at No. 15 Gours Jeseph Thierry.
20. This cbservation he fellewe up wita the fellom-
ing biegraphy:

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.94)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
Sonoda, Kenta
Rue Consulat
Marseilles
This individual is married to a Freneh woman wmese
first name is Camille. He is living at the present sime
at the nome of M. Posante, 6 Boulevard Clememeeaß - Salem
(Bouche du Rhone). Aecording to she "Minon Jim Meisemm"
of 193s, Somoda 1s deseribed as an "Export, impert and
luggage ofriee".
21. Souree's report on Sonoda is as follows:
"Was charged in Marseilles with the passege er
packages to Japan sent by Paris Japanese 3rd Bureau ef-
ricials, the Embassy Maval Attache and the Military At-
tache. These were ordinary packages as well as 'speeial'
ones. Being in Marseilles some time ago, I Learaed frem
Sonoda himeelf that he had been charged for a leng sime
with the responsibility or passing to the Captains of
Japanese mhips, wnen they were in the port, impertamt
telegrams whieh those ships tranamitted by their radies
to Japan. Curiously enough, it was more espesially sae
offiee or the Military Attache whieh used this eemmmi-
cations ehannel. Mr. Sonoda sent out montnly, fer sev-
eral months, telegrams valued at several teas of theusanes
or franes. In addition, he complained abeut not having
been surrieiently reimbursed for tnis serviee. As these
telegrams were received by him as registered mail, the
Direstors or the Postal Service of Marseilles were, at
the end, quite curious about this repeated correspendense.
"A seareh was made both at his house as well as
at the ofriee of Sonoda, naturally without resulss. The
poliee were content with seising doeumeats earrying she
Letterheed "Japamese Embassy', 'Ofrise of Milisary At-
tacke', ete. Yet, the telegrams, or at least the eopies,
were on Mr. Sonoda's table.
"Mr. Soneda's name having been found repeated
ities fer espienage) a mew searok by the polise took
place arter the afrair of the Gaeme cempany, equally
months under ceafinement in his quarters at Marsedlles.
Seneée mas pleaded illness since these ineiaesss.
16 dissppeared during the ccoupation."
22. Seuree of tas abeve repert Liste the fellomin
-9-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
Serial W.A.-1000
S E C R E T
Japanese in residenoe at Marseilles as of August, 1943:
BOKU, Toretsu - Coreen
ohez Mme Miolis - 39 rue du Dr. Ernest Massila
FUJIWARA, Iohizo
11 bis rue Viotor Maurel - Endoume
Sa remme (me Jeane)
Sa rille (Yuki)
HIRA0, Chez Mme Maronez - 120 rue Reinard
HORIKAWA, Seiho - employe du Consulate, 5 Cours
J. Tnierry
HASADO, Kihaon1 - 81 rue St. Jaoques
Sa Feme,(Rose-Marie)
MATSUNAGA, Eijiro - employe dans une firme frameaise
56 Rue Sylvabelle
SUYEMATSU, Masaki - Consulat du Japon
12 Rue du Coq,
SONODA, Kenta - 98 Rue Consolat
TAGAWA, Kakuso - 73 Rue Grignan
TAKIYASU, Tomhio - 196 Rue Paradis
UKDA, Ch1yo - 8 Rue Bernex
YAMANAKA, Mototsume - 43 Rue de La Darse
Sa femme (alsacienne)
YAMANAGA, Suehiro - 1 Bd Grae - Saint-Louis
FRENCH INTELLIGENCE CONTROLS
23. Although Frenoh authorities were requested so
provide information coneerning Japanese activities in
Franee, they have produoed nothing of partieular interest.
The following undated letter (probably of resent date
in view of the faet that the Direotion Generale des sudes
et des Reoherohes is a recently oreated organisation) frem
the Ministry of Colonies to Colonel Manuel is of consid-
erable interest:
"Direction des Affaires
Politiques
"Service Colemial de Controle
des Indégemes
-10-

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
Serial W.A.-1000
S E C R E T
"Le Ministre des Colonies -
a Monsieur le Direotour General
(Direotion Generale des Etudes et des Recherohes)
Presidence du Gouvernement Provisoire de la
Republique Pranoaise
10 Boulovard Suohet
"Je suis informe vue les ressortissants japonais qui
avait ete replies en allemagne, apres la Liberation, viem-
nent de passer frontiere suisse. Les personnalites of-
fioielles nipponnes residera tant a Berne qu'a Zurieh et
Geneve. Les Japonais auraient amenage reseau de renseis-
nements dont les ramirioations s'etendraient en Franee et
surtout a Paris.
"A partir de l93o, mon Departement a dispose de eer-
tains postes d'ecoute telephoni ue ui etaient bramehes
sur l'Ambassade Japon et ses annexee: le Bureau Militaire
et le Bureau Naval. 'experience  montre e ce mode
de surveillanee etait indispensuble pour suivre l'aetivite
d'espionnage japonais qui s'exercait de facon intense,
tant sur le plan politéque que sur le plan economique, dans
certain milioux du monde des affaires et de la presse.
"Durant l'ocoupation oe controle a pu etre assure,
en zone libre, jusqu'au moment ou la ligne de demareation
at ete supprimee.
"A l'houre actuelle, tous les ressortissants japonais
sont places sous la surveillance de la peliee et seste
mesure a reduit dans une certaine partie le travail de
penetration qui pouvait etre efreotue.
"Toutefois, certaines rirmes constituees au moyem de
capitaux japonais mais amployant des dirigeants et un
personnel frencais continuent de fonetionner. Il est a
craindre vue derriere une facade d'apparenee franeaise,
les liaisons ne s'etablissent aveo des agents seerets
demoures sur place.
"En consequence, je vols serais reconnaissant de
vouloir bien envisager la possibilite, si les eireonstamses
Le permettent, de mettre a la diapesition de mon Departe-
ment certains postes dont je conrierai a nouveau l'esoute
a Monsieur
 C'est un agent de toute confiamse
comnu de la Surete Nationale et dont Le Ministere des Gel-
oaies utilise les serviees depuis dix ans. Il pessede a
foad la langue japenaise dont La eomnaissanee, éomme veus
le saves, est extrememest rare.
"Il serait desirable ue les pestes d'eseutes fussems
branekes sur les establissemeats suivasts:
-11-

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
"La 'Yokohama Spec1e Bank' - 13 Ave ae 1'Opera
Telophone: Opera 5175, 76, 77
"La 'Banque Franoo-Japonaise' - 33 rue Camben
Telophone Opera 7944, 45
"La 'Soolete de la Sussan, sucoursale de La
'Mitsui', 1, rue Paul Cezanne - Telophone Ely.0604
"La Soc1ete francaise de la 'Mitsabismi' rue
d'Amsterdam, Telephone: Pigalle 8033, 34, 35"
This corresponaence was rollowed by letters set fortn
below:
"Le Direoteur General des Etunes et des Reeherenes
"a Monsiour Le Ministre des Colonies Direetiom
des Afraires Politivues
"En reponse a votre lettre no. //S.C.C.I. relative a
une surveillance yu'il serait indispensable d'exereer a
l'encontre de certaines rirmes japonaises, j'ai l'hommeur
de vous faire co naitre que je suis tout è fait dispose a
raire surveiller pour votre oompte les postestelephomiques
mentionnes dans votre lettre.
"Touterois, la regle de centralisation des surveil-
lanees telephoniques par la Direction des Services des
Controles Teonniques ne permet pas de mettre direstment a
La disposition de votre departement des postes a'eeouse.
Cependant, si vous vouliez bien detacher dans mes serviees
, dont la connaissance de la langue japonaise
pourrait en efret etre tres precieuse, il serait emarge
des eooutes en question, dont les resultats vous seraiomt
communiques direotement.
"Je vous serais reconnaissant de bien vouloir me faire
connaitre votre accord.
"P.0. Le Sous Direeteur du
Cabines"
"LE MINISTRE DES COLONIES
"A Monsiour le Prefet de Poliee
Cabinet
Sous-Direetion Administrative
-12-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
Serial W.A.-1000
SE C RET
"Depuis la Liberation, oertaines rirmes franeo-
japonaises constituees au moyen de oapitaux náppons mmis
employant des dirigeants et un personnel franeais eontin-
uent de fonetionner. Il est a craindre que derriere ume
racade, a'appar nee francaise, des liaisons ne s'establis-
sent aveo les agents demeures sur place.
"En consequence, je vous serais oblige, de vouloir
bien me faire parvenir tous les renseignenents utiles teuem-
ant les sooietes francaises suivantes:
"la Societe Foukokoi - 33 rue Cambon
"La Societe Frunoaise Bussan - 1 rue Paul Cesamme
"La Societe Francaise Mitsubishi 0 70 rue a'Am-
sterdam
"La Banque Franoo-Japonaise - 33 Rue Cambon
"La Yokohama Spec1e Bank - 13 Avenue de 1'Opera
"Les trois premieres firmes, sont des riliales au
grand consortium japonais Okura et Mitsui-Mitsubishi. J'at-
taoherais du prix, notamment, a savoir quels sont les prin-
oipaus employes francais.
"Signe: Laurentie
24. The results or the "eooutes telephoniques" des-
cribed in paragraph two have been reeapitulated and have
become available for our use, not as a result of ofrieial
requests ror inrormation, but through special sourees.
Enclosure (A) represents the early Pre-Vieny period. The
material covering the later years will be available in a
fow weeks.
SWITZERLAND
25. In order to oarry out General Betts' suggestion
that an "estimate of the situation" in Switzerland be made,
the Assistant U. S. Political Orrieer at this headquarters,
Mr. Robert Pell, made a short visit there for us. Altmough
Lt. Colonel White had promised to make the necessary elear-
anees for Mr. Pell to confer with British Speeial Serviees
as well as with our own, nothing appears to have beem deme
and the British authorities deelined to meet nim.
26. Mr. Pell's report is set forth below:
REPORT ON A VISIT TO SWITZERLAND
by the
Assistans Political Orricer, U.S.,Bheer
"1. I visised Switserland frem Jammary 29 to Pebruary 6.
under the cover of consulting Red Grees autmorities rogai
-13-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
the status of prisoners of war. I visited Bern, Basle,
Zurioh and Geneva, canvassed available Ameriean inrormm-
tion and was in contact with Freneh, Polisn and Swiss
sourees. Unfortunately instructions from Shaer to the
British organizations misoarried so that I was umable to
consult them.
"2. My conolusion is that Switzerland to all appearamees
is a main, if not the main, Japanese communications and in-
telligenee center in Western murope at the presems sime.
"3. As regards communioations, not only has the volume
of telegraphic communication from Bern to Tokyo amd other
points multiplied many eimes in recent months but the
courier trafrio in and out of Switzerland nas beem ssreagly
on the inorease and personnel nandling communieations, sush
as code olerks (listed for the most part as attaehes.
oipher experts, despatohers and so on,) has beem mterially
strengthened.
"4. With regard to intelligence, special ageneies, notably
in the guise of newapaper ofrices sush as Asshi in Gemeva.
Dome1 in Bern and Domei and Yomiuri in ZurTeh, have becem
very active under the general asgis of the Military and
Naval Bureaus, and there is every reason to believe that
they are operating aoross the Swiss frontiers, not only
in and out of Germany but aeross the Franco-Swiss border
as well.
"5. In a general sense Japanese activities in Switserland
are rather rigidly compartmented on three layers: (a)
Normal politieal relations through the diplomatie missions;
(b) Financial-economio relations through the Fimameial At-
tache; (e) Intelligenoe through the Milttary and Maval
Bureaus and the "newspaper ofrices."
"6. Minister Kage, Shuniehi and his starr, ineluding a
Counseler, Secretaries, numerous Attaches and a momweem-
missioned personnel, are on excellent terms wish the Swiss
autherities who are impressed with their courteous, cerrees
atsitude and serapulously carerul observance of diplematie
etiquette and the international "convenanses." The Mis-
ister hes pleasant relations with mumerous key ofrieials
in the Bwiss Geverament ineluding Poreign Minister Stuekis
fermerly Swiss Minister in Vishy, and evidently has set
out to build up eapital in the highest Swiss quarters whien
pesed te rerese a request of the Japamese to be a
-14

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
Serial W.A.-1000
3BCRET
to Swiss territory, all the more as Switzerland is the pre-
teeting power or Japanese interests in Allied countries
and of Allied interests in Japan.
"7. Snimamoto, Toru, the new Finanoial Attache recemtly
transferred from Berlin to Bern, is exceedingly aetive in
the rinanoial and seonomio fields and is staking out geed
relations with Swiss businessmen in Basle, with bankers is
Geneva and with industrialists in Zurieh. I ram aeress
nis trail in all three cities, as well as in Bern where he
has developed userul contacts with the rinaneial ame eson-
omic branohes or the Swiss Jovernnent. I was tola, more-
over, on goou authority, whion was conrirmed Looally in
both cities , that he will open shortly branch ofriees in
Lurioh and Basle, drawing personnel rrom the former Lega-
tio s in Central Europe ind the Balsans, now in Veniee.
At present he is a regular weekly visitor to Basle and
Zurioh and a more infrequent visitor to Geneva where he is
in contact with banking interests. In Basle ne appears to
be oanvassing the finanoial nouses, building up good will;
in Zurioh he is In regul r relations with the Seiden-
Juoker, A.G., the silk people, notably the Chairman, M.
Bosshart, who spont many yours in Japan, and with whom he
lunohes every Thursuay noon at the Bose (or Bourse) res-
taurant. Through Bosshart, I am i  formed on the most re-
liable Swiss banking «uthority, Shimamoto is in contact
with silk firms i. Lyons, :mong others the Ponge.
"8. Mr. Shimamoto's efforta in tais field are bout to 
seconded by the establishment of a full-fledged Japanese
Consulate General in Zurioh headed by Koda, until now
Counselor or the Japanese Legation in Stookholm. At the
Baur-au-Lao it zurioh I was inrormed that Mr. Koda was
expeoted "any day" and had reserved : luxury suite for
himself and auditio al suites ror members of his staff
with still Further reservations at the Hotel Bellerive.
I was reliably informed, moreover, that Japanese ofri-
oials from Bern had, approaened real estate ofriees in
Zurien and were in megotiation for the remtal of a whand-
some villa" in its own grounds to serve as the Consulate.
Likewise it was repcrted to me that the Japanese, who re-
seived permission from the Swiss on January 1, 1945, to
open the Zurieh Consulate, will snortly request permis-
slon and it is likely that the approprlate exequatars will
be granted te open a Consulate at Basle and a Gonsular
Ageney at Geseva. Without a doubt shese shree ofriees
togetker with the two brench Financikk wrriees will abeerb
quite legitimately a large part of the ofrieial Japanese
perseanel frem Gemtral Burepe.
and Maval Bareaas, metably the former, and whsck the
mans Gemerels
-15-

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
Berial W.A.-1000
S E C R ET
with the Asahi the prinoipal clearing house in Geneva,
Domei in Bern the colleotion center for doouments and re-
lated material, Dome1 and Yomiuri in Zurioh.
"l0. Contaots from aoross the Frenoh border, whieh all -
especially the Frenoh and the Poles - assured me was wide
open, take place in Geneva. At the Pacirio House, where
some or the Japanese have apartments, the coneierge told
me that the Japanese were "most hospitable" receiving
visitors all during the day and late into the night.
Moreover, the volume of material which the Japanese eer-
respondents telegraph, usually after midnight from the
Gare telegraph office, is enormous and it is mupplemented
by a regular courier servioe to Bern from which seeret
material is despatohed. Parenthetioally I could find mo
one who would suggest tnat the Japanese orossed the Frasse-
Swiss frontier themselves. The inferenee was that Japamese
agents, who are non-Japanese, do the frontier crossing and
contact their Japanese prinoipals and paymasters in Gemeva.
In addition, to the "correspondents" there are other Jap-
anese in Geneva, estimated by the American Consul at 17,
by other informants at 10 or 12, inoluding Professor Mayede.
Goro, who leotures on Japanese history and art at the Ui-
versity and gives Japanese language courses waioh are well
attended by young Swiss.
"ll. Mome1, Bern, is evidently the Japanese olipping and
dooument center. There dooumentation of all deseriptions
is assembled, translated and despatohed. Above all the
Japanese are in the field as purohasers of Ameriean or
English books, magazines, newspapers, and so on, and our
servioes are doing a good business selling them carefully
sorutinized back copies of obsolete magazines and news-
papers, through intermediaries of course, at extravagamt
prioos.
"12. In Zurieh Japanese "newspaper" activities are eom-
centrated in a triangle formed by the Hotel Bellerive,
No. 1 Seefeld Quai and Nos 7 and 10 Bellerivestrasse.
No. 1 Seefeld Quai is a a flat-iron building known as
Fraseati's. There was an apartment to rent, and I visited
the owner, Dr. Adolr Sporre, known for nis German connee-
tions, but he found that the apartment had gone, only an
hour before, so sorry. On the ground floor at Fraseati's
there is first of all, at the narrow end of the irem, a
bar with two entramees, one on Seefeld Quai, the other on
Bellerivestrasse. Then comes a danee hall with three
entrasees on Seereld Quai and two on Bellerivestrasse.
Next there is a beerstube with an entrance eash on the
wee1 and another from the mhort street sonmeesins tae quei
and Bellerivestrasse. No. l0 Bellerivestrasse, a whelly
entranee te No. l0 is thpough a gatemay (thke plaee
otherwise beanded by a high iron fenee)
site the resteureat. I tried to go throngh the
-1

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
Serial W.A.-1000
SEE CRET
at onoe a man (Italian looking) in snirt sleeves rushed
aoross from the restaurant and asked me where I was going.
I said "To do some business at No. lo". He retormed shat
there was no one there (it was a Sunday) that he was the
guardian and I should give him the name. I deeided not to
pursue the matter further.
"In the basement of Framoati's there is a spacious
ball room whioh is used on state occasions only; other
times it is looked (I tested all the doors.) Abeve tme
restaurant, eto., there are two floors of apartments, mow
exclusively occupied by Japanese or their friends. All
day and well into the early morning people come and ge
quite naturully in one or the other or the divisiems or
Fraseati's or pass from the divisions up the stairs to the
apartments or cross over to Nos 7 and l0 Bellerivestrasse.
or visit the Hotel Bellerive where several Japamese have
apartments. In short,contacts can flow freely whien pre-
bably accounts for tne mass of material telegraphed by the
"oorrespondents" or sent by courier to Bern.
"One aspect of the Japanese "newspaper" activities in
Zurioh is especially ourious, and that is the elese idem-
tirieation of the Military Attache's ofrice with Remel.
In fact, with the Zurioh poliee (who, inoidentally are on
bad terms with the Bern Political Police and in eonmequense
exomange very little information with the latter oreani-
zation) Lieutenant General Okamoto, Kiyotami, the Milisary
Keniehi, are listed as Domel correspondents. Mereever,
the Domei ofrice at No. 7 Bellerivestrasse is listea in
the name or Horigate, Yosinori, an ofrieer in the Military
Bureau. In the case of Lt. General Okamote it is explained
that he is suffering fro. a tropieal disease contreeted
during the Burma campaign and is consulting a spesialist
in Zurien where he wishes a certain anonymity, hemse the
Domei guise.
"13. In snort, the Japanese are strategieally well situased
for sheir work im and from Switserland, but a werd of eeu-
tion should be maid regardi & the reports that Japamese
have entered Switserland in recent months "in hundrees"
and that "hundreds of applieations" are now pending. Ae-
cording to swiss resords whick have been emmined by an
ageat Less than rifty Japanese have entered Swisserland,
during the last six months, in mall driblets, a fow as a
time. Mereever, according to the Swiss there are enly
are sesting up an elite starf in Swisserland,
-17-

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
Serial W.A.-1000
SECRET
"14. Tne list or Japanese known to be in Switzerland at
this time is as follows (named marked Ab. are Japanese
who have been listed in Switserland but whose present
whereabouts is unknown):
Civilian Orrieials
ARAKI, Tokiso, Attaone, Legation, Bern
ADaCHI, Takemasa, Clerk, Legation, Bern
HAYAO, Suetaka, Jirst Seeretary, Legation Bern
HIISKKI, Kinya, Attache, Legation, Bern
HORIKAwA, Haruo, Chanoellor, Legation, Bern
HORIUCHI, K1, Courier, Bern-Madrid
IGUCHI, Ab, Student Seoretary, Legation, Berm
IKOMA, Hajima, Courier, Bern-Berlin
INAGAWA, J, Cierk, Logation, Bern
ISHIHaRA, Naomori, Attaohe, Legation, Bern
ISHIKAWA, onakiohi, Clerk, Legation, Bern
KAKURaI, Shukutsuke, Chanoellor, Legation Berm
KASE, Shunioh1, M1 ister, Bern
KUSAI, Tadakaze, Attaohe, Legation Bern
KIHARA, Gunani, Attaohe and Code Clerk, Legation, 
MORIYAMA, Takasuke, Tnird Seoretary, Logation, Bern
MUKAWA, Motoy, Attaohe, Legation, Bern
NaGATA, Daijiro, Second Seoretary, Legation, Berm
SAJIU, Hiroshi, Consula e General, Zurioh
SHIGsMITsu, Akira, Attaone, zgation, Born
HKUsHI, Kakumai, Clerk, Legation, Bern
HIaAmoTo, Toru, Finanoiul Attache, Bern
TATEKA A, Moto1, Clerx, Logation, Bern
TAkaGI, Musatake, Clerk, Legation, Bern
T. URuoka, Senjin, seoretar., Legation, Bern
ULDA, Tsuneuki, Tnird Beoretary, Legation, Bern
URYU, TomaJiro, Clerk, Legation, Bern
YAMANAKA, Toshio, Attache, Legation, Bern
YOSANO, 3higeru, Counselor, Logation, Bern
b.
Military Orficials /correspondent, Zurish.
/then Asst. M. A., rinally Yemiur?
HORIGUCHI, - Ma jor, First was Domei correspondamt
KOHTANI, Etsue, Oapt. Code Clerk, Military Bureau
NAKAMURA, Kenioh1, Maj. Asst. Mii. Attaehe, Legation
Bern.
NICHIHARA, Iohiro, Capt, Naval Attaohe, Bern
OKAMOTO, Kiyotami, Lt. General Military Attache,
Legation Bern.
YAMADA, Saji, Commander, Assistant Naval Attache,
Journallets
FUKUI
IMAI, Minori, Aeahá, Geneva
-18-

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.88)
.A.-1000
JRET
3 E
KC. ASAKI ... Yomiur1, zurich
KURAGI
... Free Lande, dern
MORIHIMA .. Pre LanGe, Bern
RYU, Snintaro.. Free Lance, Bern
SASAKI, Riniohi, Asal1, Goneva
SASA 40T), .. ahI, Coneva
TAGUCH .... Free Lanse, Bern
ToKMI, C, Yoniuri, Zurich
WAKAYA4, Junohiro, Maiuion1, Bern
YAL ATO, Jasuo, Jome1, Born
d.
Others
FUJIT... . b.
IYAM.... Ab. Born
INAGA A, JirO, Bern
INOUE.. . Ab.
ITO, r,., Bern
ITO, Gu, Student, Geneva
KAGAAAD.
KNOA.. Ab.
KASHIGAWA.. AD.
KIT MUR., Kojiro, Yokonama peoie Bank, Born
AAYDA, Goro, Prof, Geneva
NuM , Rev. Tneologioal stuucnt, Born
XIAKI,... Ab.
SAIDA, Tokioni
SAKAI, Naoyosh1, Ab.
JHINYA, Yomhio, ... Ab.
IUKI... Ab.
INODA... Ab.
UMIYA... Ab.
TOKULAG.... Ab.
YOHMO.. . Ab.
TACUCHI.. . Ab.
ToMIzAWa, Rev. Theological Student
27. It may be interesting to have some researeh done
on tuis mnterial in washington where records are more som-
plote than ours in the riold. Ir you agree, will you ur-
range for its tranemission to the Assistant Chier of steff,
G-2, War Department and I xill send mierorilm oopies to-
gether with tnis report to U. S. Naval authorities and to
the U.s. Politieal Orrioer ror the Department or State.
Respeetrully submisted,
william Abbett
Lt. Comdr,U.S.N.R.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Fle
ACTION: FC
INFO:
/-28-46
S
ASB -Y.
7314
U
No paraphrase necessary
C
Stockholm
A-D
LE
SEORET
Dated. nury 21, 1946
EUR
FE
Rec 'd 4:09 p.m.
C ON
SPD
ESP
Secretary of State,
DC,/1
JAN 21946
Weshington
six
894.202
US URGENT
NIACT 161, Janury 21, 6 p.m.
Two  Cc intelligence offioers arrived Stookholm
today tc iutcFw:ew former Japanese Military Attache
Jenecal Onouc concerning secret information allegedly
given him (and possibly to Germans) by French national
0/1-
Garnier, former officer of French Legation Stockholm.
Officers indicated they well awere of Onodero's ten
years record as espionage agent in Europe.
-2146
We informed them Onodero and Jap group had already
left Sweden by Bzsen route to Naples. French officers
sw goutx potsibility of detaining Onodero in France
or ronci zoe of Germany for interrogation. Legation
recomendeu this action be not taken and urged Onodero
be permitted proceed with group to Naples where he could
be interviewed prior to boats departure Janvary 28.
French officers egreed to this procedure.
Possibility exists however French officers may be
hoodwinking Legation and Onodero may be removed from =
group when it is in French controlled territory. Thi5
preliminary French interrogation may be undesirable 
94.20240
from American viewpoint as American authorities may ventt
Onodero catch the boat and may wish to interview him 
W
first themselves. Department therefore may desire to
OCR NF Unit
edppt one
Ana
-SEGRET
R€
DECLASSIFIÈD
Oat
P760175
72562
Dist.
KLNARs, Don Z0duly '78

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
ENTRAL SERVICES-
LEGRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SEOREP
-2- NIACT 161, January 21, 6 p.m., from Stockholm
adopt one of fol owing courses cf action: (1) Do
nothing and hope Onodero reaches Naples according to
schedule (2) detain Onodero in Arerican zone of Germany
elther (A) tc interrogate him there or (B) to fly him
direct to Neple: in time to arrive January 28.
Accorting to Russian schedu e Onodero reache
American zone late January 22 at Kasyel reaches Minnheim
January 23 about  900 and leaves American zone at
Stuttgart January 24.
Suggcst conault War, Naoy, Sst.
RAVNDAL
MRM

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.91)
2100d
18 November 1946
FOREON
ONE.Tilo
1946
TO:
Mr. Jack D. Neal
State Department
Room 203 Architoot Building
1735 New York Ave
Wash. D. C.
FROM:
Chief, Dissemination Branch, So
The attached material, which has been obtained from
reliable sources, is being forwarded to you in the belief that it
may be of interest.
AU6 15 1949
31947
APR
mld
DOR
NF Uni
m8
ettouch
a
121
Chief, Dissemination Branch, 80
Dist
SECRET
ontial Fild
DB-1225
BECLASSIFIED
NND 2500GS
 2/ Cy810 21

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
ASE OLEAR WITH UFFICE OF
RIGIN BEFORE LIITIATING AC-
ION BASED GI THIS HENORANDU!
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT, WAR DEPARTEIT
Washington, D.C.
30 September 1946
COUNTRY:
J, orhern Erope.
SUBJECT
Japenoso Wartime Intelligence Activities in Northern Europe.
DATE OF TFORATIOL
1940-l945, vith earlier background
EVALUATICH:
B-2, oxcept as othervise noted.
(a) oHonERA. Major General Hakoto  Biographical Sketah
REFERENC 3:
of: SSU, 25 Septenber 1946, DB #1226.
(0)
OOUCHI, Hajor Gonoral Mirose, and HIROSE. Colonel
Ei chi - Biogrtphical Sketches of, SSU, 25 September
1946, DB /1229.
(c)
IHOUE. Yoichi; ITO, Colonol Kiyokazu; KIGOSHI, Major
Yu ukcsu: SATO. Kichinosuke; and SATO, Najor Tatsuya
Bioerephical Sketchos of: SSU, 27 Sept. 1946, DB #1246.
(i) Ot ors, an indicated.
Tie fol owiny survey is based on information obtained from
interrogation of sub jects of References (c), (b) and (c) at Sugano Prison. Tokyo, by
a ropresentative of SSu. CIonERa vas under interrogation fron 6 May to 20 July
1946. the othor8 Prom 5 Jne o 20 July.
Table o' Contents
I.
Introduction.
JT.
Dovelopment and Objeotives of the Offices of
Mils tary Attaohe at Stockholm and Holsinki.
III.
Intolligence Aids and Methods.
1
Finances
2、
Coraunications
5. Mothods Usod in the Cathoring of Intolli-
Fence and the Maintenence of Socurity.
IV.
Con acts and Sources
i.
Polish
2。
Finnish and Baltic
3.
Gernan
4.
IHungarian
5.
Swedish
6.
Rolations vith Other Japaneso Missions in
Europe
V. Sunmary of Intelligence Obtained
I. INTRODUCTION
Statements made under interrogation by subjects of References (a), (b) and
(c) -- particularly ONODERA, Japanese Military Attach& et Stockho1m fram 194i to 1945.
and ONoucII, vho held the same post at Helsinki from 1940 to 1944 -- have revealed the
DB #1225
1

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
following important and hitherto little known facts about Japanese intelligenoe
activities in Europe before and during World War II.
First, the Japanese Army General Staff has for many years collaborated olojo-
ly with the General Staffs of the Polish, Finnish, Estonian, and Latvian Armies in
subversive and intelligonco activities ageinst Russia. After the outbreak of war 
the Pacific, the westen Allios were also included ns ono of their targets. Thi
collaboration ineluded the exchonge by official agreerent of Genoral Staff offioers
for training and instrretion, the cxchange of erypto-analytic and other intelligence
material, joint financing end planning of subversivo oporations in peace as well as
in war, and jcint traininf and direction of espionage and sabotago agents.
Second, in Europo cho Jepanece Military Attaches functioned as leading fig-
ures in all such activities. Both in peace and in war they were responsible not only
for normal diplomatic dutios and the generally rocognized intelligence work of military
representatives in toroign countries, but also for every kind of subversive activity
including direct contact vith espi onage and sabotage agonts, maintenance of olandestine
W/T communications, racio interception and illegal commercial operation. In Sweden,
Finland, Poland and the Baitic states, they wero the only Japanese to do this work,
and there is little if any ovidonce to show that the Navy or the Foreign Office
played moro than a cecondary role insofar as intelligence was concerned.
Third, ONCmI and Cuouclif themsclves had been treined for years as specialist.
in Russian intelligence. When the fonner was firct sent to Sweden it was in that ca-
pacity only. However. as the e: dcveloped his office gradually became the most im-
portant Japanose espionago post in Europe with directives covoring all fronts and
with c ose to 2,Ooo, Co0 Yen held at his disposal for intelligence operations. His
orgenization, through vhich ho obtained outstandingly successful results, was based
on the collaboration already mentioned. RYBIYcWSkt, former head of the German Seotion
in Department Il of the Polish Goneral Staff, worked in is office for almost three and
a half years. IAasING, former chie of Dopartment II of the Estonian General Staff
end officiully a refugce in Stockiolm, was his chief agent throughout the war. When
the Finnish crypto-analytic cection under LALIAMAA fled to Sweden they relied on
ONODERA for funds and flcced the results of their work at his disposal. In addition
to these he also hed a source within the Swedish Goneral Staff in the person of Major
PETERSEN and he made exconsive exchanges of intelligence material with Karl Heinz
KRAEMER, who is generally acknovled ed to have been one of the Abvehr's most success-
ful operators.
CLOITROL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
II. DEVELOIT AID JECTIVES  THE OFFICE CF HILITARY ATTACIE AT STOCKHOLM AND
HELSINK
A。STOCKIOIM
1.A.
GlorA ae d o tho post of litur Attache at Stockholm in November
1940 and assu cd  oly ca 5 Pebruary J941, succeoding Colonel NIsèIMURA Toshio,
an expert on Rusci t P. He vae told that the Russian and German Sections in
Department  of  oe ial dererel Staf? wented hin stationed in Europe as one of
their forenost R csir mec al sss. His job wes to bo an observer and to study the war
fron what vae co.sics  peeond line positton, in contrest with the first line of
quasi operationa  ine pelligorent cories. Such an assignment seemed the
more Ptti  s o soatery vas arothor of his specialties. onodERA
streesus that    Stoelhoim was nover ple mod as an active intelligence center
and becane so o es  resls o she progress or the ver. He was always handicapped
by the ract tt o  le Japa entirely unprepered for such a development and there
fore never obied c or oquixent approprinte to an operational intellipenoe post.
Though ecroc  oly to the Swedish Govoramont, ho was considered responsibl
al so for Norway nd Do  Te Froquently went to Norway, where he had good connootions
in Gorman military cirotes. Demerk was kept closed by tho Germans because of unsettled
conditions, cnd  su ceeded in roinr there cnly on his way to Berlin and for one
moetiny wi th the ropr sentativee o? Ast Cslo.
OucbEkA vac noe conneetod adainistratively with any other military mission in
Europe. Ho clains to  beon camplctely indopandent even with the Japanese Legation
at Stockholn, and cite. as evidence tho facts that his funds wore separate (he had no
contact with MkuRA, e Logation paymaster) and that he had a personal code for
direct conmunicavion vith Tokyo.
2。
Direotives
The diroctives which OiopERA receivod fran Tokyo changed, as did the nature
of his work, vith the progross of the war. In gonerai they were of two types, basic
and spcoial, He never felt bound by than and frequently agted on personal initiative
when he thought he could best sorve his country's interests in that way.
a.
Basic Directives
i.
Goneral intelligence on Russia-military, technical, political
and oconomic, This was proper to the Stockholm post and fitted
in with his own previous training.
ii。
General intelligence on Gemany. This was also a regular
target for the Stockholm post. It was altered somewhat as
Japan and Germany became more closely allied, but continued
nevertheless throughout the war.
iii. General intelligence on Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and, after
August 1944, Finland and the Baltic countries.
iv. Study of the general strategic development of the war.
Study of new tactical methods developed by both sides.
Japanese military publications on this subject, some of
which had been prepared by ONODERA himself, were considered
to be out-dated.
vi. General intelligence on the western Allies (after 8 Deoember l941).
8

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
Speoial :reetives
i。
Po
To collst cll material on Geman prepara-
uin vi particular emphasis
or p a   OiooeR seys that Pokyo evidently
wiured to ooorl nate pions n the Pacific vith German action
in Erepe.
He ronored on he besis of information obtained from Cerman
en I  n cou ces that not Brioain but Russia was about to
be jirad d. Tolye dHo had beer receiviny contrary reports
fro OSirA in. Berlin and at fire: rofused to believe ONODERA.
When lio wife crcived in Hay 194i, she warned him that Head-
quar  frieicle were very displeased with him and that he
conln expct to bo recellad.
ii.
sooteer es. To pake arrangenents to ttako over the espionage
or ztiont f e Ais povers, (For an account of OODERAºs
at pts to do is see "Japanoso Wertino Collaboration with the
Cer n Int 11i enee Servico" -- SSU, 4 October 1946, DB #1239.)
iii。
May 194f. To collect all information on the redeployment of the
Alliod forcep in the European theator to the Far East.
Febratry 1944. To purchaso ball bearinga in Sweden, regardless
of uhe lavs rorbidaing their exportation. This was an especially
urgeno directive. ONoDERA nade thrco unsuccessful attempts to
carry it out. The first was through the Bulgarian Minister
NICOLAIEFP and the Conmereial Attach& SERAFIHOV, who had agreed
to make the purchases for him and arrange for tho shipment to
Cerrany Where tho ball bearings vere to be forvarded to Japan by
submarine or blockade runner, Hovever, Bulgaria surrendered be-
fore it was possible to carry this out.
The socond attenmpt was through VoECZKOEIDY and others of the
Hungarian Legation. This also failed bocauso Hungary was invaded.
The third was through a Swedish contact, ERIC ERICSSON, who
clnimed to have made the necossary arrangements with FINkE, the
reprocentative of the S.D. in Sweden. At one time they planned
to sond the bali bearings by air over the northern route, but
thi: schemo also foll through. ERIcSsoN received about 7000
kronor for preliminary expenses. ONODERA had been authorized to
spend the total of the War Ministry funds in his possession for
this purpose.
3. Development of Intelligence Activities in Stockholm
Before the outbreak of the Russo-German war the Japanese mission in Stockholm
was regarded as relatively unimportant in the over-all organization for Europe. Even
after June l94l it coutinued to be neglected by Japanose military circles, who were
under strong German influence. At the beginning of 1942 it began to be interesting
as an observer's post and it was somewhat strengthened by the arrival from Berlin and
Paris of newspaper men who began to report on the western Allies to their news ser-
vices. A representative each of Mitsui and Mitsubishi was added to the Military
Attache's office at that time - another Mitsui man a few months later - and in the
middle of 1942 a Navel Attache's office was created.
At the end of the same year, the staff of the Legation being nearly doubled
with the arrival of a new minister (OkAmOTo), a stronger impulse was given to intelli-
gence work. Late in l943 some members of the diplomatic mission to Rome came to
Stockholm. By mid-l944 the effective distribution of Japanese diplomatio staffs in

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
SHORETCOPTROL
continental Europe had changed considerably: the Berlin mission had begun to foel
that its days were numbered, the French mission was completely dissolved, and the
Japanese diplomatic situation in Spain and Portugal had become most uncertain. 
a result, Stockholm became a vital point for Japanese intelligence and people were
transferred there from each of the plaoes mentioned. At this time there was again
a noted incroase in press vork. Pinally in 1945 a group of twenty naval offioers
hoaded by Adniral ABE crrived fra Denmark. (Thoy vere iuterned by the Swedes,
however, and were never able io de any intelligonce work.)
Notvithstending those doveloments, CHoDERA emphesizes that throughout the
war, to the bost of his knoledge, his vm office was the only Japanese organization
in Sweden which was engaged in cecret intelligence operations.
4. Office and Porsonnel
The Military Attaohè's office as situated at Linnegatan 28. ONoDERA and
his family lived in the same apartmont building. Other members of the office had
their own houses or flats in Stockhoim and its suburbs. During the summer months of
June, July and August a house was rented near Stockholm at Djursholm, Stookholm Wog
Staff Intelligence Department. and Hrs. BERGEmAlL, a relative of Minister of Foreigh
Affairs. All the office force wers frequently invited to this summer place and it
was occasionally used for business purposes.
When OjODERA arrived in 1941 his only helper was YOGOI, a refugee business
man. Mrs. OlODERA was obliged to asaist with office work until April 1942, when
HogiA and IlHouyE (of Hitsui and itsubishi respectively), were assigned to the
office. Neither or these men was trcined for intellirence work. In October of the
sane year thoy vere joined by SATc Kichinosuke (fitsui), who came from Berlin not
because of his qualifications but to recover fron a serious caso of ulcers.
It was not until early in 1944 when Hajor SATo Tatsuya came from the dis-
banded Italian mission that an officer was assigned to ONoDERA as Assistant Hilitary
Attache. SATO was on aircraft engineer with little experience or interest in intelli-
gence work. In December 1944 Cclonel ITO and Major KIGOSHI were transferred to
Stockholm. Again neither was connected with the General Staff or had had any training
in intelligence.
The Stockholm office was never pr  vided with the proper stenographic help for
work on Japanese reports. OlloDERA made repeated requests for a Japanese female secre-
tary to be sent from Tokyo, but the outbreak of the Russo-German war made this im-
possible. As a result all secretarial work had to be done by his assistants.
For a list of personnol of the Office of the Military Attache at Stookholm,
with brief description of each, see APPEDIX A. (The steff of the best of the Loga-
tion is given in APPEIDIX D.)
5. Japanese Newspapermen in Stockholm
OlCDERA states emphatically that no Japanese journalist was ever employed
in his office and that he never used one for intelligence work. (He explains a
prevelent impression to the contrary by the fact that the newspapermen, many of whom
had friends among his assistants, were always using his office as their meeting place
and that at least once a week Mrs. ONODERA gave Japanese dinner parties to whioh they
were all invited.) He has never heard of any official arrangement, secret or other-
wise, by which Japanese military missions were connected with newspapermen for intelli-
gence. The majority of the journalists, he says, were sent to Stockholm after December
194l to observe developments in the United States and Great Britain and report on them
to the head office of their agencies in Tokyo. They tried to keep in contact with
foreign journalists and they made it their business to obtain all foreign newepapers
and publioations which came to Sweden, including those whioh reached the country
illegally in spite of British and American censorship laws. There was much traffio
in these and high prices were paid for them. According to ONoDERA, the ohief souroe
from whioh they came was the crews of planes arriving from England.
5

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
Tho Japencomlicr covaunicated directly with their Tokyo agenoies
through Swedish cai  e h coptnien. Phoy vere able to do so at a
reasonable e boctutu exeh ontracts between Swedish and
Japeneso news servico.  uo cass or Domei, OoDiA nade an agreement whereby he
could use trose facil ties und Jhus evoid delay in reporting non-confidential in-
fomation.
Unti! the nd of 1942 the Counsellor of the Japanese Legation (KoDA Jotaro)
was officially n chcge of the journalists. When the new minister (okAioto) arrived
he took hem over insel. In he viter of 1944 proas conferences were instituted
at the Lopation. The, veve attended by the Ministor, the Counsellor and the service
attaches or their ropresontativas. The pposo of the mootings was to review the
progross of the wat md co ob ain from io journaliste any information of value.
They were a fel lure toeanse none of the journaljets over contributed anything.
aopee oays that ho mede cevet unsuecocer efforts to use the journalists.
He offored to alle. cn to scnd conridon ial aews to Tokyo by using his secret code,
but they nover tvai ted   eives or i. Dn les whon ho was looking for new sources
on the wontern A lius, be carefull considere  cnch one of then as a potential inter-
mediary wi foreifm rmalirts fo ntellicnce purooser. He docided not to use
any of then, koveve. becouse vwithout exeerion they lacked the personal initiative
and discrotion cascatal to sueh worr. . o example, they hoard that one of the
Legation officials hol an irteresting c et o. they almost always broke in to ob-
tain a story. Cn one oceasion Hajor ATo  oromising contact with RIEDEL. the
German Assistant Air Actache, which wus a loe by Koco, who was after something
sensational. Again, Counsellor KoDA d . op crtunity to obtain intoresting material
from the renegado Sovict diplonat DIus lost it because of the interfereno
of KOGO and URESIII!O.
Hot until 1945 did OlHoDkA meet  journalist who suited his purposes. For
an account of this men and his relations)i, vith OHODERA, see SSU memorandum "ENO-
MOTO Momotaro," 7 Ootober 1946, DB #1247
Brief notes on he Japaneso nows services and their representatives in
Stockholm will be found in APPElDIX C.
B。 HELSINKI
1. Apoointment and Authority
The post which Maj. Gen. (then Colonel) Hirose ONouChI took over on his
arrival in Helsinki on 29 Septomber 1940 had formerly come under the authority of the
Stookholm Legation and had usually been occupied by an Assistant Military Attache.
It was changed into a full time position when the outbreak of war against Poland and
the occupation of the Baltic Statos by the USSR left Finland as the only border state
of the Soviet Union in northern Europe.
ONOUCII's predecessor, Col. NISliJMURA, continued to serve as Military Attaché
at Stookholm until relieved by ONODERA in February 1941.
2. Directives
ONOUCHI says that he roceived no special directives from Tokyo Headquarters
because he had only one code, the additive of which was gonsidered weak. Orders were
therefore sent more frequently to offices like those in Berlin, Rame and Stookholm,
whioh had numerous codes and were felt to be more secure. His general directives
were as follows:
1. General intelligonce on tho USsR. This was his chief objeotive. Priority
was to be given to order of battle, taotics, forest and street fighting.
the use of tenks and new weapons.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
SEORBTGONTROL
ii. General intelligence covering Finland. ilitary developments,
war potontial, political conditions.
iii.
Gonoral intelligance covering Germany. This was to be conoen :
tratad on German military activity in Finland and the Baltio area
with prioritios ci ilar to thoso listed under "i".
. Am  cnn orr of battle. (ireciven conoornod with the
Wes  Allies wer eceived c.tor Decerber l941.
Anglo-Amc:can shipping.
Collao ralon on cryp co-analysis win the Finnish General
Star. s wes a  hy seeret order veccived from the Cen
Brai Suec: el Intellirence Buroeu e he Eaperial General Staff,
an ce slded vith the errival os L. Col. HRosE Eiichi. The
Minisor imsolf was not advised of the nature of HIRosE's
rmission, nd all cubsequont details were handled only by HIROSE.
(See belo, III 2. - Comunications)
3. Office and Porsonrel
In l940 the Military Attacha'a office and residence were both located at
Parkgarten. Lator, in 1945. en offico wes cstablished at 28 Karewan in a house
rented fran Col. S0m70. In 1944 the rosidence at Parkgarten was bambed and
ONouckI moved to Grankurn. where the bulk of the office work (including receipt of
measages) was carried on, although a small office continued to be maintained in
Helsinki.
Despite the importance and quantity of tho intolligonce available at Hel
sinki. ONouclI's staff was extrenely small. Only one officer vas assigned to him
permanently as an assistant. Ho occasionally received visits fram student officerd,
but they vere on spoctal micsions and gould not be considered as members of his taff.
His civilian assistants vere also inadeguato in number.
For a list of perconnel of the Office of the Militery Attache at Helsinki,
Bee APPEHDIX B.
- 7 -
CONTROL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
SEORET-GOHTROL
III。
INTELLIGEICE AIDS AID  ETHODS
1。
Finances
(For surpl ertary detil see SSU merorandum "Wertime Finances of the
Japanene Jilitary 4 c   Stohom nd Helsinki," 4 October 1946, DB #1232.)
A.STCCYTON
The funds assigned to the Pilitary Aucache's Office cane directly from
Tokyo and wer antire y indepeadent cf the Logetion. OlHoDeRa dealt with the diplo-
matic finance office only efter tho Japanese surrender, when he was instructed
to hand over the lal ee or his roscurces to then. His budget was divided into
three categories: o o adain stration, intelligence, and the purchase of war ma-
terial s. Tho ad ini, rative and intellipunce funds come from the General Staff; the
purchasiny aecout wa: upylied by the War Ministry and mainteined in OnoDERA's name
by represetatives o t c Brlin officos of OKURA, NITSUI, MHITSUBISHI and SHOWA
Tsusho. Tuome co pa: c: vore cormis ioned by the Japenese Government to buy war
materiuls (bal!  arips, pinno wirc, ete.) in Swedon, but they could not obtain
foreign currmey i icient uanticies fron the Reichsbank, which released it only
to certain i -vni diplots. A portion of this account was assigned to Air
Force purcnases ord vas administered by mujor SATO.
unti! Augus 1f4 payments were maue in dollars oy tae rokohama Specie
Bank in To'yo  ro: He York to the Military Attachè's account in the Enskilda
Danken in Suocld ohn
The dollars were then changed into lironer by OlloDERA. From
August 1sal to e  o  all Pe wore transferred by way of the Y.S.B. Ber-
li. braneh. : ren o, until the ond of the ver, money from the General Staff
came directly fror o Y.S.B, in Tokyo to the Skandinaviska Banken in Stockholm and
that fro: the Wor istry directly to the Enskilda Banken. The accounts in both
banks were in C ODSitA's neme,
(oDMA  ves the followin account of total yearly expenditures from
General Staff find.; (evaluate B-3):
Administrution
Intelligence
1941
Kr.
120,000
Kr。
30,000
1942
Yr。
120,000
Kr.
40,000
1943
Kr.
120,000
Kr.
40,000
1944
Kr.
120,000
Kr。
360,000
1945 (ti11 Nov.)
Kr。
75,000
Kr。
40,000
The lrrrest item of administrative expense was telegrams, with supplies
next and general administration (including, certain payroll disbursements) last.
(In 1942-1944 t!cirannual average was Kr. 75,000, Kr. 25,000 and Kr. 20,000 respeo-
tively.) The irrelligence fund was used to nake direct payment to secret sources,
for the transmirsion of money to agents abroad, for presents to officials and other
contacts and for entertainment; small sums also went to INoUE for the payment of
publications obtained from clandestine sources.
During the early years of the war OnoDERA himself was paymaster; after
December 1944 the job was turned over to KIGOSIII. Among the civilians HOID'A, SATO
and IllOUE continued to receive their salaries fram Mitsubishi and Mitsui, as did the
press representetivos from their respective newspapers or services. All civilians
received additional campensation from ONODERA for overtime. SAZAKI, a clerk originally
assigned to Stockholm, continued on the payroll even though he moved first to Hel-
sinki and later to HIGUCII'a office in Berlin. ONODERA put about 1O,OOO Kroner of
the administrative fund at OHOUCIlI's disposal each month for the purohase of daily
necessities not available in Helsinki. He also received sums for similar purohases
fram his colleagues throughout the belligerent and ocoupied countries.
8
SEORET-CCHTROL

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
B. HELSINKI
All funds sent by the Japanese General Staff to the Offioe of the Military Aftache
in Finland were transferred through the Yokohama Specie Bank's Borlin branch. A the
war progressed and the disappearance of foreign trade made the acquisition of foroi
ourrencies increasingly difficult, the Y.S.B. found it almost impossible to carry
out the necessary conversion irto Finnish or Swedish currency. Resulting delays in
the arrival of funds frequently made it hard for OnoucuI to cover his office expenses,
particularly paymenta for conmunication servicos. In l944 an agreement was finally
reached for the transfers to bo o footed through a bank tn Switzerland (name not
remembered).
There were two office budgote ono for adninistration and the other for intelligenoe.
The latter served a function cinilar to that of OloDERA in being expended for infor-
mation obtained fran secret sourcos, gifts entertainment, the salary of one Pinmich
private secretary, etc. ONouchi cays that his everage yearly expenditurea for uoh
itema outside of oxceptional casos ves 380,000 Finnish Marks or 38, J00 Yen. The ad-
ministrative budget averaged 1,470, 000 Markc or 147,600 Yen annually: 24,000 Yon for
ffice expenses, 3600 for salarios and 120,000 for conunications. HIRosE, who took
over tho functions of paymaster in l944, civen the same figures for the administrative
account but estimates intelligence oxpellses at 20, ooo Yen yearly. In making these he
paid money to OllouchI on demand in cxchango for a recoipt, without always knowing to
whom payment was made. (Evaluation of figures in above paragraph, B-3.)
2。Conmumications
(For supplenontary dotail soe SSU nemorandum "Wartimo Communication Faollities of
the Japanese Military Attaches at Stookholm and Helsinki," 4 October 1946, DB 1234.)
A. STOCKHOLM
In reporting to Tokro Headqunrters and in communicating with tho other Japanese
missions in Europe, OlloDERA used ordinary mail, diplomatic couriers, radio and secret W/T.
Before the outbreak of the Russo-German war on 22 June 194l, liaison with Tokyo was
made by official Jepanese couricrs about once a month; they travelled by train, air or
both. Thereafter and until Augugt 1945 there was no regular courier service to and
from Japan, and the few documents which vere sent back and forth were carried either
by diplomatic parties who had receivod visas to cross Russia or by blockade runners
and U-boats.
Courier service within Europe was carried out by officers fram uhe staffs of the
various Japanese diplomatic missions. OlODERA says that tho Stoclholm office sent
oouriers only to Helsinki and Borlin. It was rarely necessary for him to dispatch any
of his personnel becauso everyono in tho belligeront or occupied countries wanted to
make trips to Stockholm to buy food and other articles which were rationed or unobtainable
elsewhere. When he did send a pouch by someone in his ovm office it was carried by an
officer accompanied by one of che civilians. ONODERA froquently took the pouch to Ber-
lin himself.
He says that the only Japenoce military radio station which existed in Europe during
the war was at Budapest, and that hardly ever functioned. All his radio reports were
sent to Tokyo through Svedish canmorcial cables. Before June l94l ourrent material was
sent to the office of the Military Attach& in Moscow and forwarded through a Russian
company beoause of a Russo-Japanese radio contract allowing relatively cheap rates.
Later it was forwarded through Berlin, where a similar arrangement existed with the
Germans. Urgent dispatches were sent directly from Stockholm. Press material also
went direotly beoause of a mutual exchange agreement between the Swedish and Japanese
news services.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
ONoDkRA olaims to have no knovledge of the existence of W/T sets in the offioos
of any of his colleagues in the other neutral countries of Europe. He himself had
been oquipped with any by Tokyo, he admits having came into possession of two which,
however, he says he never used. He declares that his conneotion with olandostine WT
work was largely indirect, through the Fiunish I.S., the Pole RYBIn OwsKI or the Estonin
MAASING.
B。IELSINKI
Until June 194l a ro ular courier came to lHelcinki oach month from Tokyo via Moscow.
After the outbreak of the var between Russin and Germany this sorvice was broken off and
couriers wero used only for trips to Stookholm and Berlin. Since there were no pro
fessional diplanatic couriors available, the trips vere made by office personnol; URA
was the one most froquently cont. Pouches were occasionally dispatched, as by the
Stockholm office, vie blockade runner or gubmarine, but never those whioh contained
documents of any value.
After Juno 1941 telograms were the only vay of trensmitting reports to Tokyo. Thoy
were of two kinds, urgont and routine. Urgent messages wore sont directly from the
Holsinki Goneral Post Offico, which used its own digoretion in routing, via Berlin or
Swoden, depending, on atmospheric conditions. This was the more direct method but it
was very exponsive, ono vord costing, 50 Finnish Marks (5 Yen).
Routine messages wore dispatched through the Helsinki Post Office to the. Military
Attache in Borlin. At the beginning, of the text the dostination of eaoh message was
indicated: "G" stood for the Berlin Military Attache, "A" for Tokyo only and "aa" for
both Tokyo and Berlin. (Thoso indicators were changed from time to time.) This mothod
was oheaper because of the wireless tolegraph rate agreements with Germany, but it had
the disadvantage of taking a lonf, time.
Both radio and tolophone vero used to conmunicato with other Japanese missions in
Europe.
3. Methods Used in the Cathering of Intelligence and tho Maintenance of Socurity
Both ONoDERA and OHOuCHI laid a substantial part of the foundation of their highly
successful intelligence vork at Stockholm and Holsinki in their prevlous assigments
to the post of Military Attache at Riga, Latvia -- ONODERA in 1936-1938 and ONOUCHI in
1939-1940. Both were adept at exploiting the contacts made by thamse1ves at that time
and by their predececsors earlier. OlloucllI was not explicit in the course of his brief
prelininary interrogation on the subject of his techniques as such; the following sum-
mary was givon by O!oDERA.
He used two principal metlods of obtaining intolligonce. The firat and most suo-
cessful was espionage. his ovn spocialty. The second was newspaper and publication
analysis which he left in the hands of his assistants, assigning to each the subjedts
for which his technicel experionoe bost fitted him.
Ho prefers to wor: alone. Ho nevor confided fully in any of his assistants with
regard to intelligenco work. When he called on them it was for isolated jobs of a
teohnioal nature and he never allowed them to have complete knowledge of his methods.
He refers to himself as a dictator and says that he likes to bo the only one giving
orders and to know thet all those who are working with him are completely dependent
on him.
a. Positive Intelligence
OnODERA believes in working with organizations rather than vith individuals.
An individual cannot provide information unless related to some sort of organization,

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
SHARET COUPOL
and a well-established organization is the only source fram which a Military Attach
can hope to get a constant flow of reliable information. He says that as a first
step he always establidhod contact with the loading intelligonce officers, both
native and foreign, in tho coutry to which he vas accredited. He then studied and.
appraised thoir possibilities and fonnuleted a plan by which he could best obtain
what they hed to offer.
He believes thnt the relationship in such a case must be initially based on
collaboration end friondship rather than on money. The more gradually the relationship
is built up the bettor. His om best sources during the war were men whom he had
known for many years. ifis second step was, whenever possible, to find a way of en-
suring the loyalty of tho men he considered valuable by binding them to him through
gratitude for services rendered so their families or for protection in diffioult times.
He stresses that he nevor ceesed to plan for the future in this conneotion, and oites
as an example his attempts to find young Hungerian scientists whose education he oould
finance, thus placing, them under obligation to Japan. (See Ssu memorandum "Possiblo
Diversion of Funds of the Japanese Military Attach at Stockholm to the Training of
Hungarian & Finnish Students...." - 30 September 1946, DB #1233.)
He says that he got sone of his best results by working with the Genoral Staffe.
of small countries. They were usually better infonmed than anyone else with respeot
to their powerful neighbors; they had many possibilities for obtaining intelligence
but did not possess the necessary finances. He found that if he was tactful he oould
supply them vith monoy and gradually create a cituation whereby they were morally o-
bliged to give him information because their debt had became so large.
To illustrate his theory he gives the following exemples taken fram his ex-
periencos during the war. In oach case he combined friendship, collaboration or
money in varying degroes to suit the situation.
i.
Estonia: He formed friendships working with Estonian General
Steff officers vwhile Military Attache in Riga from 1936 to 1938.
At that time he did a great deal to finance their common opera-
tions. Later vhen many of the same officers were in finanoial
difficulties in Germany he supported their families from Stookholm.
Consequently he reoeived information from them throughout the war
even when they were working for other services. He says that as
the German situation beceme worse, almost all the best Estonians
made lnown their wish to come and work with him in Stookholm.
ii。
Finland: During the first part of the war his collaboration vith
the Finns was based on friendship and exchange of information.
Later after their defeat he made them a considerable payment,
not only for what they could offer at the time, but in the hope
that it would bind them to him for the future.
iii. Poland: This very fruitful relationship had been prepared in
earlier years by other Japanese officers. ONODERA's own work vas
entirely dependent on the friendship and protection which he gave
to one man, RYBIKUWSKY.
iv. Germany: Friendship and the necessary collaboration between two
allies fighting a war together were tho basio elements of his
relationship in this case.
4。
Hungary: The limited material obtained fron the Hungarians was given
in official exchanges with the Military Attache.
vi. Sweden: In this case official exchanges were facilitated to some
extent by personal friendships.
For further details of ONODeRA's relationship with the above services
see below, part IV (Contacts and Souroes).

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
b. Counter-Intelligonce and Security
The Japanese mission in Stoolkholm had no joint seourity system. The Loga-
tion was deplorably lax in this respect and did not institute a night watoh unti1
the autumm of 1944. OllODERA solved his ovm problem separately; he recalls no
case of penetration of his office.
It was a ceneral rule among tho Japanese never to use a foreign pouch, even
that of an ally, for sendinp classified material. Out of necessity ONoDERA once
used the Polish pouch in en attempt to send money to tho Japanoce Tilitary Attach
in Moscow, a venture which failed because the monoy mas intercepted by the Britiah at
Gibraltar and returned to Stockholm. Ho also sent an official letter to the Japa-
nese ilitary Attache in Berlin through WAGilER and the Abwehr pouch, but it never
reached its destination despite his repeated protosts and WAGllEr's pramises.
His contact with the Finng was the bost method for ensuring the protection
of his oodes. The Japanose crypt-analytical station in Budapest also contributed:
HAYAslI, the Military Attache, onco varned the Stockholm Legation that one of its
ciphers had been broken by tho British. Howevor, subsequent tests initiated by
Hinister OKAloTo tended to contradict his statement.
OIODERA's chief source o? counter-espionago information was MAASING. to vhem
he went to cheok all new sources end agonts. MAASING had agents in WAGIIER's organi-
ation, in the Russion press office and in the British passport control office.
Through them it was possible to find out about and forestall any action which was
being, planned against the Japanose. OlonERA does not kmow the idontity of any of
these men. MAASIG's contacts in the Swedish police served to warn OHODERA of danger
from that quarter. A cheok on JLAASING himself vas provided by OllODERA's close personal
relationship vith many of his former colleagues on the Estonian General Staff.
HiGuCuT, who worked in liaison at Berlin vith the German counter-espionage agency,
was a former pupil of OloDERA's and kept him informed of German cotivity and in-
tantions, as did the Manchurian diplomatic representatives in Berlin.
o. Penetration Agents
ONODERA used the Finnish and Baltic organizations for penetration work a-
gainst his principal target, Ruscia. This was simply the continuation of work
already begun during his stay in Riga. It was not necessary for him to be conmected
ith any of the details. As the war developed and he received directives to initlatd
intelligence operations against the vestern Allies, he begen extensive preparations
for this vork. However, he says tliat he only succeoded in launching one mission -
against Britain - and that this ono was of dubious reliability.
He claims never to have used consciously any double agents. The closest he
came to doing; so was in the case of BELLEGARDB, agent of the nission just referred
to. OnoDERA realized that he must be vorking for the British but never openly dis-
closed the suspicion. He says further that he vas well aware that many of the Scanda-
navian and Baltic agents with whom he vorked were also employed by the Allies, but
in most cases he trustod them and felt that the best vay of consorving their loyalty
was to make no attempt to turn such activity to his om use. Ho was, of course,
always careful to check them whenover an important matter wes under consideration.
d. Deception Material
OlODERA says that it was very difficult for him to use deception material be-
cauße he never received any information fram Tokyo regarding Japanese strategy in
the war. He studied the possibilities of using as channels for this purpose the
journalists whose agencies had exohango agreements with Swedish papers (for instance,
Yomiuri with the Afton-Bladdet, Nichi Nichi with the Svenskadagerblat, and Domei with
T. T.). However, lack of properly coordinated material made this impossible.
12

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
SEORET CONTROL
MAASI!G occasionally passed tendentious information through hir  ents to the Rus-
sian Legation, but ONODERA was not directly connected ith thi: :pect of MAAsInG'
activity.
He was himself the recipient of deception ma, rial several times during the
war from both the Allies and the Germans. In 194l, the latter, in an attempt to
hurry Japan's entry into the war, put on a deliberate campaign to convince Ambassa-
dor OSIIMA in Berlin that they vere going to invade G. at Britain. OSHMA was takon
to visit tho invading, bases and shown troops in training and large quantities of
landing craft. OODERI, on visiting tho headquarters of Commanding General FALKEN-
HORST of the Germen occupation forces in Horvay, vas told the same story by a Col.
VORONITSKY.
From the British, whose talont he admires in this respect, OHODERA believes
that he received the following, false information:
i. Soparate peaco rimorc. These came to him through the most varied
cources, including MAASING (who had obtained it form SCIEEL, an
Estonian refugee in Stockholm) and DUITRIEVSKY, the renegade
Soviot diplonat.
ii。
False datos for the Hornandy landings. Thoso reports were in the
form of an attenpt to persuade the 'apanese and the Germans that
the Allies would be afraid to risk  ie operation. As soon as the
large-scale boabin, atiack bogan, ovover, it bocame evident that
they vere untrue.
iii.
Russian entry into tho war against Japan. This material was more
cleverly placed than any othor. It came to ONODERA through VAGY
of the Hungarian Legation; he had received it fron a Hungarian
Jewish refugee banker in Stockholm. It was given out just before
tho 1943 Attache's meeting in Rome, where it was discussed and re-
ported to Tolyo. OlloDERA heard later that it had caused a great
deal of trouble in the General Staff.
iv。
The redeploymont of the American 8th Bomber Command to the Far East
through Russia, and the visit of an American Air Mission to Russian
air bases in Eastern Siberic. Both items cane through KRAEiER of the
Abvehr, but OlODERA believes the original instigator to have been
British. These reports also vore taken sericusly in Japan because
they wero vritten in great detail. ONODERA always suspected the air
mission report on account of a reference to Suisoewke, near Vladivostok,
vhere he knew there was no airfield.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
OOHTROL
IV. CONTACTS AID SOURCES
1. Polish
A. BACKGROUND
Collaboration betvoen the Polish and Japanose General Staffs dates back to
the Russo-Japanese var and has always been based on a common hatred of Russia. It
began in Europe eurly in tho contury betwecn Ceneral Baron AKAslI, Military Attache
in Stockholm, and General PILSUDSK1. A further tic was provided by officers who
had been prisoners of vnr in Japan and who had been so kindly treated by the Japa-
nese that they formed a club, rembers of vhich entertained Japanese officers later
coning, to Poland as diplonatic reprosentatives. OloDERA says there were many cases
in which such Japanose livod at tho homes of club menbors during their stay in
Poland, (lle adds that it vas formerly a Japanese tradition to treat prisoners well
and that he was profoundly shockod to hoar what had happened during World War II).
Active collaboration beticon the tvo countries on a military basis began immediately
after the last war, vhen PILsSUDSKI vas president of Poland. ONODERA does not know
the details of what took place at that time. He says that Major General YAIAWAKI
Masataka and Lt. Generel FUJITSUKA are well informed in this regard.
Until 1939 the center of Japanese intelligence activity against Russia was
always in the Warsaw Military Attache's office. An arrangement existed whereby
Japanese officers were periodically sent to Poland to study Russian codes with the
Polish General Steff crypto-analytical section, ONODERA cites the following Japa-
nese officors who were trained according to this agreement: General HYAkUTAkE
Seikichi and General (KUBO Shunjiro in the late 1920's; Col. SAKAI (deceased) and
Col. KUDO in the early 1930's; Col. SAKURAI Nobuta and Col. FUKAI Eiichi in 1935-1936.
The Japanese system of press and document analysis practiced so extensively
during the war and its success ul use for intelligence purposes were also learned
fron the Poles. Col. KOWALESKI, later Polish Military Attache in Lisbon, was an
authority on this system and had risited Japan for the purpose of teaching it; two
or three other Polish officials had similarly instructed members of the Kvantung
Army Intelligonce Service in Harbin. In cxchange for such instruction the Japanese
undortook to supply the Poles vith Soviet code intercepts and other intelligence
material obtained in tho Far East.
As a result of this background of cooperation, when Poland was cccupied by
the Germans and the Russians in 1939, and the Polish General Staff forced to take
refuge in London. Col. GANO (head of the Polish T. S.) proposed to Col. UEDA (Japa-
nese Military Attache in Warsev) that the Japanese take over the Polish intelligence
organizations against Russia and Gerriany. This offer vas officially refused by
Tokyo Headquarters because of the allianco with Germany. However, individual Japa-
nese and Polish officers in Europe continued to work together under cover, and Poles
who had stayed behind on the continent were given Japanese or Manchurian passports
and employed in the Embassies and Consulates.
Wishing to tale every advantege of the possibilities of this collaboration,
Col. GANO in 1940 arranged vith Col. UEDA to send a Polish intelligence mission to
the Far East for work on intelli once ageinst the USSR, in Japan or at Kwantung
Army Headquarters. When most meabers of this mission returned to Europe in 1942 with
the Polish Military Attach to Tokyo, Col. REVEToW, tvo (one a lieutenant named SKoRA)
sought and obtained peimission to renein in the Far East and continue their work
against Russia in secret, still in collaboration vi th the Japanese. The request was
forvarded to Polish Headquarters in London through ONoDERA's office. Within a short
time Goneral SIKORSKI, despite the fect that a state of war existed between Poland
and Japan, answered that permission was given in accordance with the long tradition
of collaboration between the iwo countries. Lieutenant SKORA, who OHODERA thinks
is connected with crypto-analysis, was last heard of in Manchuria.
OEORETOONTROL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET COUTROL
B. ONODERA
OllODERA's om successful and extensive collaboration with the Poles was
centered around the ox-Polish General Staff intelligence officer RYBIkowsKI, who
worked with him in his office for thrco and a half yeare. When ONoDERA arrived
in Stogkholm, he found collaboration betwoon the Jepanoso and the Polea already
established and functioning. In 194O Col. NISIDURA, OMODERA's predecessor, had
agreed with Col. GAllO that RYBIKOWSKT (formerly head of the German section. and ono
of GAlo's best assistants) should bc riven a lManchurian passport and a cover job
in a Japaneso Iilitary Attecha's ofi ice At Cirst ho had been assigned to Col.
ONoucuI's office in Rifu. Late then hje vas closed as a rosult of tho Russian
invasion of tho Baltic counorios, he movod to Suoukiolm. When he arrived in Sweden
there Were two other Poles, GIREVITCl and KoNAR. Working, thore. They controlled an
espionage group in Copcnhagon and tho original plan had boen for all three to re-
main and work against Cormuny and Russia. However, Gl. EvIrCl vas compromised when
one of his agents was errested by the Swedes in Goteburg and ho was obliged to
coase his activities, cvcntualay coin to Eagland in l94l. RYBIkowSkI remained as
tho only P.I.s. representarive. in order to vccure additional cover he obtained
fron Finland, whero he had contactc in the Finnich police, a fal se Russian pass-
port in the nane of PI( TRE JWAW. No hed proviously been using the alias HICHAI-
LOWSKY
ofoDMna worle ith hin on the most intinato toims until the spring of
1944 and rofors to him as his "Chiof of Staff." Al though RYBIkOWSKI was employed 
in nia office, he atloced hin absoluto independence in his intelligence activities
and doliberatoly r d ignorant of tho doteils of many of hia oporations. His
two main targets  Lays Ruasin and Germany. Ho never gave OJoDERA any information
about the veetern Ailics and OloDEkA says that ho never asked for any.
Working in OHODERA's pay and at his Stockholm office, RYBIKOWSKI received
reports fran his oxton: ivo netvork of agents situatod throughout northeastern Eur-
ope and in tho USsR ana foriardod them via Japencse diplomatic couriors to Polish
Hoadquarters in London. Japanoso offices which played a part in this system were
locatod in Germany, the Balsic countries, Finland and Poland. Early in the war
Berlin was the most activo oxchange conter; there. another Polish I. S. officer
named JAkUBIC  KUNCEWICZ had been civen a Japanese passport and vorked in the
Embassy with Attachos  IURA and ISlIDA. In Koonigcberg the offioe of the Japanese
Consul, SUGIIARA, was used, and in Riga and lator in Hclsinki tha't of ONOUCI.
A notwork of Polish agonts who roportod to RYBIkoWSkI oxisted in the cities
of Bialystok (Poland) and Minak and Smolensk (Russia). the first having long been
a center of Polish inte lligunce activity against the UssR. Anouher wes under the
protection of tho ancl urinn Conculatc Coneral in Warsaw, which remained open
aftar the Japanoso Embessy had closed dovm and until ourly in 1942. SUGIHARA's.
offico in Koenigaberg vas de lheadquartors of egeats who vere in contact with mem-
bers of tho Polich cnistatce movomout at Kaunca, Lithuanic.
RYBIKoWSkI had uo sources in Pinlend: ZABA, a ncwspaporman working in
the Polish Logation at Helsinki, who received information fron agents in Russia,
and POEYlony o? th, Tinnish I. S. (see bolow). Thero vero two Polish agents at
Narva, Estonit, tvo at Riga, Latvia, and a group in the Ura? and Caucasus regions
o eastern and pouthern Russia. RYBIKOWSKI ves unablo to cstablish communications
with tiis group fron Siockholm and therefore a description of the organization
with a list of tho agents' nemes was gont to Tokyo. ONoDERA doos not know how this
information was used by the Japanosc, but ho thinks that liaison with the group must
have been made by the Japanose Military Attach& in Persic or Turkey and that Gen.
ISOMURA (M.A. at Ankara) was probably the ono to have rosponsibility for such
liaison at the time.
In August l94l when Generel SIkORSkI's London goverment sont an official
mission to Moscow for tho first time, a Polish I. S. officer accanpanied them. He
15
SEORETCONTROL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
SEORETCOHTROL
was able to send information back to London vhence it went to OllODERA in Stookhal
through the Polish diplomatic pouch. Tlis source produced excellent information
until 1942 when it was compromised through Russian breaking of Polish codes.
For a summary of the information received by Ol:ODERA from RYBIKOWSKI see
below, V., Sum ary of Intellicence Obtained.
C
OUOUCI
(oic.I's coniections vn th the Polish I. S. were always indirect. He con-
Firms the facts that a workin; agregnent had lonr existed between the General Staffs
of te toc countries tn that Polish officers workeo vith Japanese military missions
in several European capitals, including Bucharost and Ankara as well as Berlin and
Stoclholm. At Bucharest a group of several Poles in the Japanese Military Attache'
office gathered information on internal conditions in the USSR: food supplies,
industries, communications, etc. They collaborated with Lt. Col. FUJITrsUkA until the
sprinf; of 1942 and then vri th: Col. SIlANUYI until the Russian occupation; OHOUCHI
heard that some of then were arrested by the Germans and says that Col rcucI
Fukashi (liaison officer in Berlin with Abt II and III of the Abwehr) knows the de-
tails of the case.
O'OucHI's first contact with the Poles occurred vhen he was stationed in
Harbin, on duty with the local Special Service (Tolamu Kikan) unit of the Kwantung
Army. Instruction in locument analysis as mentioned above and also in crypto-
analysis was iven there under the direction of Consul YUYATKOWSKI (Japanese spelling),
assisted by one or two Polish cfficers who had been sent Trom Warsaw and who worked
under cover as civilian members of the consulate staff. One of these was a document
analysis specialist whose name Oi:O CII remenbers as resembling "RIPUTSKI." He adds
that t lis was almost surely a cover nane, and it is quite possible that t may have
been Col. KOWAL.ESKJ. Anotler name remenbered in this conmection is PAVLOWICZ. The
group vorlked under General YAILA'OTo and Col. SUZUKI and trained Japanese orficers
specially sent fram Tc.cyo, anong them ISIHIZEKI Sakae and NOURA Saburo,
In Latvia OHOUCIHI came into contact with RYBIKOWSKI in connection with
work which was being organized jointly by the Finnish, Polish and Japanese intelli-
gence services. He had met him formerly in Sweden at MISIMURA's office. He
believes his real name to have been LIBITSkI, though he is not certain of this and
says that in all his on dealing with him the name IWAiow was used. At that time
RYBIKOWSKI had only Danish and Polish papers and was in need of a passport from
a country not occupied by the Germans. OlouCllJ arranged for him to obtain a Man-
churian passport through ELARA, Counsellor of the fanchurian Legation in Berlin,
the particulars of which vere as follows: name, PIOTRE IWAlOW; race, Russian; home
address, Hailar.
RYBIKOWSKI cane to Rige shortly before the Russian invasion of the Baltic
States to make contact with a Polish group working for SUGIllARA, Japanese Consul
in Kaunas, Lithuania, and to build up a network of Polish agents in Latvia. He suo-
ceeded in setting up an organization whose members were located on the Baltic coast
in Riga, and on the Russian frontier. It vas headed by a former painter whose name
OIJOUCIII belioves wes KUBKEWIECZ and whose headquarters were near the frontier.
His chief agent in Riga was a Polish waman who worked as a laundress. After
RYBIKOWSKI returned to Sweden OllOUCII forvarded reports from these people and from
SUGIlIARA to Stockholm. He complains that they were all written in Polish and that
he was in no way rewarded for his trouble. In August 194l OlouCHI says that the
liaison became difficult because a Russian agent was assigned to watch his house.
In Riga ONOUCIII also knew the Polish M. A. Col. BRZESKWINSKI. but the
latter was depressed about his country's defeat and did little intelligence work
before the Russian invasion made it necessery for him to move to Stockholm.
SEORETGONTROL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRETOONTROL
At the beginning of ONOUCHI's stay in Finland, RYBIKOWSKI came to Hel-
inki and cooperated with BOEYIIONEll - assistant to PAASONEN, chief of the Finnish
I. S., and a specialist in espionage - in establishing lines to Estonia and
Latvia. ONOUCHI obtained the results of their work through the office of SALO-
KORPI, one of the leaders of the Finnish cryptoanalysis group. He does not kmow
the details of this activity. He says that it was still going on in l94s when
ONODERA, acting on RYBIKOWSKI's behalf, asked ONOUCHI to have POEYHONEN send a
liaison man to Stockholm. Later on he found out that POEYHONEN had done so.
In Helsinki he knew of the following, members of RYBIkOWSKI's organiza-
tion: ZABA (see above); a Pole about 50 years old described as a slippery
character who had fled vith the American Minister's party; and an excellent con-
tact in the passport section of the Finnish police. ONCUCllI was in direct contaot
with ZABA, who was introduced to him by RYBIKOWSKI in October 194O. He obtained
frm him some information on Finnish politics and internal affairs. ZABA went to
Stockholm shortly after the outbreak of the Russo-German war in June 1941.
OWOUCIII's other Polish contacts in Ilelsinki included a refugee named
BERSON, who had been introduced to him b/ NISHI!URA, and the Polish Military Attaoh,
Col. LOS. He made repeated attempts to exchange information with the latter but
soon found that he was doing no intelligence work. (Los later moved to Stockholm
where he worked for the Polisn i. s. against Germany.) He also wanted to meet the
Polish Minister, said by NISHlURA to be exceptionally well informed about Russia,
but this man left for Sweden beforo he could do so. BERsoN, who had lived in Mos-
cow, merely fave ONOUClI some superficial information on Russia.
SEORHTUONPROL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
2. Finnish and Baltic
a. Finnish
A. BACKGROUIID
There had been extensive contacts and exchanges between the Finnish and
Japanese intellienc: services before ONOUCHI arrived in Helsinki or ONODERA in
Stockholm, Their collaboration, as in the case of the Polish-Japanese relationship,
had originated in the days of the Russo-Japanose War and had always fooused on work
against the USSR: it had been given an historical foundation in theories of racial
kinship. Because of the relative inactivity of the Finnish I. S. before 1934, how-
ever, it had remainei largely superficial until in that year Col. TERADA was appointed
the first Japanese Military Attache to Helsinki. He and his successor Col. KAto laid
the groundwork for tie more intimate collaboration which began with the arrival of
Col. NISHIMURA in 1938.
Relationship botween the two services vas on a strictly military basis and
was kept secrot; according to Oloucill. none of the Finnish political leaders or even
President RYTTI knew about it. Work was carried out on an exchange basis. The Finns
gave the Japanese instruction in crypto-analysis and access to all types of intelli-
gence on the USSR, and the Japanese gave money (through payments made to the Finnish
Military Attachè in Tolyo) and a certain amount of Soviet intelligence and interoopt
material obtained in Asia.
In 1939 ond 1940, as a result of the Soviet threat to the high secreoy of
activities being, carried on in Finland, the center of espionage and sabotage collabora-
tion between the Finns and the Japanese moved to NISHIfURA's office in Stockholm. At
the end of the Russo-Finnish war in March 1940 it returned to Helsinki. At this
time, the Poles too collaborating, RYBIkOWSkI went to Riga (see above).
During: the sme period, as a result of negotiations initiated by NISHDMURA,
the Kwantung, Army requested of the Finnish General Staff that two Finnish officers
be sent to the Far East to teach methods of vinter warfare. The Finns agreed and
sant Col. KAIlA, an outstanding, specialist on the subject who had commanded the 4th
Division on the Mannerheim Line during, the war, and an assistant, Major REINER, an
artillery officer. They traveled through the United States and arrived in Japan in
Nevember 1940. In Manchuria they vorked w th Cel. KoTAJI Etsue (chief of the
Kwantung Army's Intelligence Section) and Col. KATO Yoshihide. They were prevented
from returning by the outbreak of war between the UssR and Germany, and remained in
Japan as military attaches. According to OlouClI, they were still (at the time of
his interrogation) in Tokyo, where he had last seen them on the street in July l945.
In studying the Russo-Finnish war and in conversations with the Finnish War
Minister, NISHIMURA discovered that perhaps the most important cause of the Finnish
successes against the Soviet armies had been the crypto-analytical service under Col.
HALLAMAA. It had succeeded in breaking the codes used in Soviet combat communications
so rapidly that it could communicate Soviet orders to Finnish unit commanders before
they reached their destination in the Soviet lines. NISHIMURA determined to acquire
this valuable weapon for the Japanese services. He consulted with HALLAMAA and worked
out an arrangement whereby a specially designated Japanese officer would be assigned
to the Finnish crypto-analytical section for the purpose of learning their methods.
The Japanese paid for this privilege with money of which the Finns were sorely in
need as a result of the war, and with Russian cipher material -- five digit -- ob-
tained in the Far East and forwarded by Tokyo.
The appointment to NISHIMURA's office in 194O of Col. HORIUCHI and a naval
officer whose name ONODERA cannot recall was the immediate result of this agreement.
HORIUCHI, who had had no previous training in such matters, proved unequal to the
task and was replaced in 194l by Col. HIROSE Eichi, a trained specialist who re-
mained until the closing of ONOUCII's office in 1944.
OEORETOOHTROL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET CONTROL
B。OIOUCHI
NISlILURA': a n, UNO:IYA. introduced ONOUCHI to Finnish General Staff
circles. his work vitn h Ceneral Staff begen at once and continued without in-
terruption throughou. his pe iod of duty (Sopt. 1940 - Sept. 1944). He made the
following, trips and inspecticns in connection with it:
February 1941.
Inspection of tho Suomusalmi battle fields
'or tho study of winter warfare.
2
Geptember 1941.
inspection of the front in the Kannas sector.
3.
November 1941.
Inspection of the front in Karelia. HIROSE
replaced OHOUCHI on this trip.
4.
April 1942.
Inspection of the central Karelian front.
5.
Apri! (?) 1942.
Visit to plane factory at Tanmerbors.
6
June 1942.
Visit to Finnish General Staff Headquarters
at Mikkeli. Inspection of the underground
installations of the General Headquarters.
7.
Noverber 1943.
Inspection of fortifications, tour of nor-
thern Finland as far as Rokniemi.
8。
February 1944.
Accompaninment of Japanese military, air and
naval mission headed by Col. KOTAMI to
inspect German Air Force winter inscalla-
tions in northern Finland.
9.
July 1944.
Accopaniment of Japanese Doctor KOORI of the
Berlin Embassy to inspect an army hospital in
central Finland.
10.
July 1944.
Visit to Finnish General leadquarters at Mikkeli.
11.
Juby 1944.
Visit to Hangc.
In February 1944 a Finnish-Japanese intelligence conference was held in
Helsinki. The Japanese were represented by OJOUCHI, HIROSE, and Col. ISHIZUKA, a
technical intelligence specialist sent from the Berlin Embassy. The following
Finns attended: Col. PAASOUEU, chief of Department II; Col. SOMERTO, chief of the
positive intelligence section; Col. KOEkKONEN, his assistant; Major RANTANEN, air
specialist of the estimates section; and Capt. SALOkORPI of the espionage seotion.
They discussed Russian military developments, industry, and war production capacity.
ISHIZUKA brought with him German technical röports from Berlin. The conferenoe
concluded that the defeat of Germany mas inevitcble.
Department II of the Finnish General Staff was located in Helsinki at the
time of OnoUcèI's arrival. When the General Staff moved to Mikkeli in June l94l,
the operational seotion of Department II went with it but the offices with whish
MouChI was in contact left representatives in Helsinki. His account of the ov

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
B. ONOUCIII
NISIIIMURA's assistant, NINOIIYA, introduced ONOUCHI to Fimish Genoral Starr
circles. His work with the General Staff began at once and continued without in-
terruption throughout his period of duty (Sept. 1940 - Sept. 1944). He made tho
following trips and inspections in connection with it:
1. February 1941.
Inspection of the Suomusalmi battle fields
for the study of winter warfare.
2.
Ceptember 1941.
Inspection of the front in the Kannas sector.
ö.
November 1941.
Inspection of the front in Karelia. HIROSE
replaced OI!OUCHI on this trip.
4.
April 1942.
Inspection of the central Karelian front.
5.
Apri! (?) 1942.
Visit to plane factory at Tanmerbors.
6.
June 1942.
Visit to Finnish General Staff Headquarters
at Mikkeli. Inspection of the underground
installations of the General Headquarters.
7.
Noveriber 1943.
Inspection of fortifications, tour of nor-
thern Finland as far as Rokniemi.
February 1944.
Accompaniment of Japanese military, air and
naval mission headed by Col. KOTAlI to
inspect German Air Force winter installa-
tions in northern Finland.
9.
July 1944.
Accopaniment of Japanese Doctor KOORI of the
Eerlin Embassy to inspect an army hospital in
central Finland.
10.
July 1944.
Visit to Finnish General Headquartors at Hikkeli.
11.
Judy 1944.
Visit to Hangc.
In February 1944 a Finnish-Japanese intelligence conference was held in
Helsinki. The Japanese were represented by OJOUCHI, HIROSE, and Col. ISHIZUKA, a
technical intelligence specialist sent from the Berlin Embassy. The following
Finns attended: Col. PAASONM!, chief of Department II; Col. SOMERTO, chief of the
positive intelligence section; Col. KOEKKONEN, his assistant; Major RANTANEN, air
specialist of the estimates section; and Capt. SALOkORPI of the espionage seotion.
They discussed Russian military developments, industry, and war production capacity.
ISHIZUKA brought with him German technical reports from Berlin. The conference
concluded that the defeat of Germany was ineviteble.
Department II of the Finnish General Staff was located in Helsinki at the
time of ONOUCnI's arrival. When the General Staff moved to Mikkeli in June 194l,
the operational section of Department II went with it but the offices with which
ONOUCHI was in contact left representatives in Helsinki. His account of the over-all
organization is as follows:
Department II: Chief, Gen. IELAnDER:
Assistant, Col. ENkEL
19

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET COUTROL
Positive Intelligence Section:
Chief, Col. POEYHONEIL.
Estimeton Section: Chiof, Col. KOEkKONE.
Crypto-Analysic and Monitoring Soction:
Chief, Col. HALLAMAA;
Assistant, Capt. PALE.
Eupionape and Sabotcpo Soction:
Chir fa, Lt. Col. SANTAVUOR and
Cop. SALOKORPT;
A:s s.ant, Lt. RUIELA.
Counter intelligonce Soction:
Chiof, Col. WALDEI;
Assistant, RAUTSUO.
Linison Section:
Chief, Col. ROSEIBREUER;
Acsistant, Col. SLOEOR
In July 19l HELA DE? vas succecdod by Col. PAASONEI (whom ONOUCIII did not
meet until 1914), a confidant of ANIRiIEI! and Precident RYTTI, whose family lived
in the latter's official ruaidence. PAlsonEll was half Hungarian, married to a
Hungarian, and a reduate of Saint Cyr. Ho did not got on well with POEYhonEN and
in 1942 replaccd hin vith Col. SonRTo, who had beon Finnish Military Attache at
Moscow in 1939. SO RTO in cun was succeodcd by Co1. KOEKKONEN in June 1944.
POLYIONE vos OHOUCiII's closest contact in the Finnich General Staff. He
was a spocialitt in craining and dispatching espionago and sabotage agents against
Russia. He spcke the language well, had studied the subjoct for many years and
was much lookcc up to in Finnich military circles. OlouciI describes him as a
daring, positive workor with great ability for gathering intelligence and only one
weak. point - in ovaluation - which is said to have caused his downfall with PAasonE.
Thoy exchanged information and worked togother in planning operations.
POEYlOlE's heedquarscrs were divided between Helsinki and Mikleli. ONOUCHI never
visited the latter plece but wes in regular contact with the Helsinki offico. For
a time this was under the direction of Lt. Col. SAITAVUORI; ONOUCHI's coatacts,
however, were either with POEYlOlEI himself or with Capt. SALOKORPI and his assis-
tant, Lt. RUELA (vho workod on Soviet radio activities). SALOKORPI was a specialist
in espionage and in charge of the fabrication of false papers. When POEriolE was
transferred, SALOKORPI handled all of OlIOUCllI's contacts vith Department II. (For
a description of the material received by OIOUCIII fram POEYIONEI and his section,
see below, V., Sunrnary of Intelligence Obtained.)
Apart fran the Finnish General Staff, ONouClI had a personal source of in-
telligence and several official contacts among the Finns at Helsinki. The intelli-
gence source was a lavyer named SHIHIliAn (Japanese spelling), who had been employed
for several yoars at the Japenese Legetion until he was dismissed by Minister SAkAYA.
He supplied OHouCI with roports on internal conditions in Finland and received from
him a monthly salary of 3000 Finnish Marks (300 Yen), increased in 1943 to 5000 Marks.
The other ccntacts were with the following Finnish officials, who ONOuChI
claims were in no way connected with intelligence and from whom he seys he never
obtained information:
HAKKARAIlEI - Section Chief in the Foreign Office who was in charge
of liaison with Japanese diplomats.
NISSOIEI
An employee of the Foreign Office from whom ONOUCHI
received official invitations, visas, ration coupons, eto.
Dr. RASTEAD (probabl3 spelling; Japanese version is RAMUSUTEDDO) - A
former Finnish minister to Japan, and language professor
in the Finnish university.
le was president of the Japanese-Finnish Society, honorary
president of which was the Japanese minister. While
ONOUCHI was in Holsinki this society held one staff meeting
a year; other meetings were pancelled because of the war.
He knows nothing of its membership, no list of which had
been published sinoe 1939.
20

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRETCONTROL
OlloucHI obtained sone information about Finnish political developments and
internal conditions from the Japanese minister, whose source was an ex-member of
the Foreign Office named LAUTKARI, then on the staff of the Finnish newspaper
Kaupalahkti (Japanos( spelling). This information was particularly interesting
in February 1944 durin che por od vhich precedod the peace negotiations, and
again in August of th e sane yoar with rogard to the peace terms.
C. JHIROSE
A valuable Goneral Staff contact and working arrangment with which OnoucHI
was not directly assoc ated va: maintained for three years by his subordinate,
Assistant Military Attach& HIR0SE Eiichi, who until the beginning of 1944 had no
other duties in the Military Attache's office than to write reports on crypto-
analysis for Tokyc Hoadquarters. IIROSE was sent to Finland specifically to cooperato
with the Crypto-analysis Soction of Department II, a mission considered as highly
secret and personal. Not even the Japanese Minister to Finland was aware that he
was anything more than a routine Ass't M.A. For administrative purposes he was
attached to the Japaneso War Ministry, but his directives were communicated to him
personally from the Central Special Intelligence Section, Except for matters of
office routine he was e.tirely independent of ONoucnI.
Immediately after his arrival in Finland in the spring of 194l HIRoSE was
taken to Grankura, e naval monitoring, and crypto-analysis station located about
40 kilometers west o? Helsinki. It wes commanded by Capt. POKARIlEN with a staff
of about loo. This station concontrated on interception and deciphering of Soviet
messages origineting in the Baltic area, particularly thoce from the main Soviet
naval base.
At the begirning of July HIROSE was taken to General Staff Headquarters
at Mikkeli and introduced to Col. HALLAlAA, who took him to the Army crypto-analysis
center at Savonlinna. There ho met the Finnish officers who were to direct and
assist him in his study of Soviet codes: Lt. (later Capt.) PALE, next to HALLAAA
the best Finnish crypto-analyst, who worked on the codes of all nations but who was
handicapped by a lack of knowledge of Russian; Capt. PARko, another crypto-analyst;
BOGOJABLENSKI, a White Russian refugee vho had taken Finnish nationality. HIROSE
is not sure who commanded the Savonlinna center but says that it came directly under
the authority of HALlAMAA in Ifikkeli; it too had a staff of about 100.
In December 194l the Grankura and Savonlinna stations were amalgamated and
their personnel and equipment transferred to Soldavala on the shore of Lake Ladoga.
Capt. PARKO was put in conmand of the new center and PALE became chief of the crypto-
analysis services. HIROSE says that the total staff was about 500 men, including
200 signal operators. This mber included several Russian refugees whose knowledge
of the language was of considerable assistance to the Finns.
Except for periods of report-writing at the M.A.'s office in Helsinkd, HIROSE
spent all his time at Soldavala until early in l944 when he was told by the Finns
that, as a result of an order by MANNERIEIM which applied to all foreigners, he was
no longer authorized to go there. He thinks that the real reason for breaking
off cooperaticn may have been that the Japanese were not supplying enough material
to the Finns. The development of the war at that stage may also have been a contri-
buting factor, since contacts between the Finns and the Soviets for the purpose of
arranging a separate peace had already begun. (For comments on the results of
HIROSE's cellaboration in crypto-analysis, see below, V., Summary of Intelligence
Obtained.)
While on duty in Finland HIROSE made a number of trips to other European
countries. He went to Stockholm three or four times a year to buy living necessi-
ties not available in Helsinki, and about once a year traveled to Berlin with
occasional side trips to plaves with whioh he was unfamiliar:
194l - Berlin for health reasons.
1942, February - Berlin; Budapest for a conference with orypto-
analyst SAKURAI.
1942, September - the Stalingrad front with a delegation of

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
ONOUCHI obtained some information about Finnish political developmente
internal conditions from the Japanese minister, whose source was an ex-member of
the Foreign Office named LAUTKARI, then on the staff of the Finnish newspaper
Kaupalahkti (Japanese spelling). This information was particularly interesting
In February l944 during, the period which preceded the peace negotiations, and
again in August of the same year with regard to the peace terms.
C. HIROSE
A valuable General Staff contact and working arrangment with which OnouchI
was not directly associated was maintained for three years by his subordinate,
Assistant Military Attach& HIROSE Eiichi, who until the beginning of 1944 had no
other duties in the Military Attachè's office than to write reports on crypto
analysis for Tokyc Hoadquarters. HiROsE was sent to Finland specifically to cooperato
with the Crypto-analysis Soction of Department II, a mission considered as highly
secret and personal. Not even the Japanese Minister to Finland was aware that he
was anything more than a routine Ass't M.A. For administrative purposes he was
attached to the Japanese War Ministry, but his directives were communicated to him
personally from the Central Special Intelligence Section, Except for matters of
office routine he was er.tirely indepondent of ONoucHI.
Immediately after his arrival in Finland in the spring of 194l HIRoSE was
taken to Grankura, e naval monitoring, and crypto-analysis station located about
40 kilometers west o? Helsinki. It wes commanded by Capt. POKARIllEN with a staff
of about l00. This station concontrated on interception and deciphering of Soviet
messages origineting, in the Baltic area, particularly those from the main Soviet
naval base.
At the begirning of July HIRoSE was taken to General Staff Headquarters
at Mikkeli and introduced to Col. HALLAlAA, who took him to the Army crypto-analysis
center at Savonlinna. There ho met the Finnish officers who were to direct and
assist him in his study of Soviet codes: Lt. (later Capt.) PALE, next to HALLALAA
the best Finnish crypto-analyst, who worked on the codes of all nations but who was
handicapped by a lack of knowledge of Russian; Capt. PARko, another crypto-analyst;
BOGOJABLENSKI, a White Russian refugee vho had taken Finnish nationality. HIROSE
is not sure who commanded the Savonlinna center but says that it came directly under
the authority of HALlAMAA in Ilikkeli; it too had a staff of about 100.
In December l94l the Grankura and Savonlinna stations were amalgamated and
their personnel and equipment transferred to Soldavala on the shore of Lake Ladoga.
Capt. PARKO was put in conmand of the new center and PALE became chief of the crypto-
analysis services. IIRoSE says that the total staff was about 500 men, including
200 signal operators. This  'mber included several Russian refugees whose kmowledge
of the language was of considerable assistance to the Finns.
Except for periods of report-writing at the M.A.'s office in Helsinkd, HIROSE
spent all his time at Soldavala until early in l944 when he was told by the Finns
that, as a result of an order by MANNERJiEIM which applied to all foreigners, he was
no longer authorized to go there. He thinks that the real reason for breaking
off cooperaticn may have been that the Japanese were not supplying, enough material
to the Finns. The development of the war at that stage may also have been a contri-
buting factor, since contacts between the Finns and the Soviets for the purpose of
arranging a separate peace had already begun. (For comments on the results of
HIROSE's cellaboration in crypto-analysis, see below, V., Summary of Intelligence
Obtained.)
While on duty in Finland IIROSE made a nimber of trips to other European
countries. He went to Stockholm three or four times a year to buy living necessi-
ties not available in Helsinki, and about once a year traveled to Berlin with
occasional si de trips to plaves with whioh he was unfamiliar:
194l - Berlin for health reasons.
1942, February - Berlin; Budapest for a conference with crypto-
analyst SAKURAI.
1942, September - the Stalingrad front with a delegation of
Japanese military engineers. He says that he
was on leave at this time and went along out
of curiosity.
1943, October - Berlin, Budapest (where he again saw SAkURAI),
Sophia and Bucharest.
1944, August - Berlin to observe conditions in Germany after the
21
-SEGRET CONTROL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
aoumnor
opening of the seoond front.
In July l943 an assistant was unexpectedly assigmed to him from Budapest
HAGATA Kozaemon, civilian graduate of the Foreign Office Language Sonool who had
been working under SAkURAI. HAGATA was trained in the Russian language but did
not speak it. HIRosE says that he was not able to be of much assistence in orypto-
analytical work because of inexperience due to a long period of inactivity in
Budapest,
D OHODERA
As Military Attache in Riga (1936-1938) ONODERA had been in tough with tho
Finnish I. S. and had came to know bcth PAAsOlE and HALLAiAA. Inasmuch as all the
countries in the Baltic area were asseciated in obtaining information about their
powerful eastern neighbor, the F.I.S. had been aware of OnODERA's already existing
relationship with the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian General Staffs (see below).
During the early part of his stay in Stockholm he had no direct relationship with
the Finnish service -- that being within the province of ONouCHI -- but
PAASONEN
and HALLAliAA made it apparent that they did not vant to lose their personal contaot
with him and he continued to keep in touch with them through Capt. WILLuan the Fin-
nish Naval Attache at Stockholm.
Besides receiving general roports on the situation at the Russo-Finnish front
from ONoucllI, who sent them regularly and who also visited Sweden about fifteen times
during tho war, OHODERA kept abreast of the Finns by working with WILLlLAN and with
Col. STEWEN, the Military Attach&. STEWEI was one of his most productive souroes
during the first part of the war; le vas a personal friend of the Crom Prince and
had excellent contacts vith Swedish officers in the General Staff. Among these was
Major PETERSEI of the Espionago Section; OlHODERA believes that he had STEWEN worked
cTosely together unti! near the enc. of the var when they quarrelled and STEwEn began
speaking agcinst him.
STEWEN disliked the Ger-
mans and avoided the Military attache Vo! UTilAnN, but he was always friendly to
the Japanese, He was unpopular with many of his compatricts: HALLAMAA distrusted
him and warned OnoDERA against him.
ONODERA got intellirence fran him (see below, V., Sumary of Intelligence
Obtained) by exchange and by purchase, He says that he was astonished when the
official representative of Finland asked to be paid for this information. He says
that STEWEl received lOoo Kroner for a report on three or four occasions. ONODERA
also gave him Russian material and general estimates on the progress of the war.
STEWEl wrote his reports in Swedish, the only foreign lenguage which he spoke fluently.
Although the information which WILIl'All supplied was less extensive, ONODERA
regarded him as more intelligent and honorable than STEWEl. His chief source was
the Finnish Genoral Staff; ho probably also had good personal sources in Sweden. Al-
though he was in toucn wi un mricit aad merisan cfficiels he never gere owodere eny
information concerning the western Allies. To OloDERA's knowledge he did not work
with CELLARIUS (see bolow) or any other German I. S. representative.
ONODERA was al so in touch with Capt. HORIGREN, WILIl AN's predecessor as Naval
Attachs; they exchanged some information. ONODERA believes that HORiGREn had, in one
of the three Ba cic countries, a source of information on Soviet naval activity which
In August 1944 OlODERA heard fram his Finnish friends of the imminent
peace between their country and the USSR. He immediately made contact with
PAASOME! and HALLAIIAA through WILLAil and undertook to do what he oould to proteot
and help the Finnish services. About that time a group of more than a thousand
Finnish intelligence operators -- including a special service parachute battalion
of 400 men -- seoretly came over the frontier into Sweden, bringing with them their
radio equipment and their archives. This undertaking was given the active support
of the Swedish Army, whioh assigned Major PETERSEl to carry out the details. The
Finmish group contimued its former activities, setting up a orypto-analytical seo-
tion near Stookholm and operating three or four monitoring stations in northern
Sweden. It was in direot communioation with the Finnish resistanoe movement.
22

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET COUTROL
OlonERA cay: that in spite of what was done for these Finnish exiles by the
Swedos, they were despcrately in need of money and were not even able to apply
for holp to thoir traditiona? frionds, the Americans. Aooordingly, hi offorts
in their bonalf took the form of inancirg them to tho extent of about 250,000
- 300,00o Yoner -- his ontire funds including War linistry money, which he
later had to replace. He had praised more and had received an additional
150, Ooo Kroner froam Tokyo for this special purpose when the war ended before ho
coulr delivor it to them. Hc says that, although the information which ho
roceived at the time was in no way conmensurete with the amount expended, ho
considerod it an excellont investment for the future from the Japanese point
of view.
OHODERA received intolligence fram the Finns in two ways, through per-
sonal contacts and in written reports. HALi.A'LAA and PAAsOllEl both visited him
separately on tvo occasions. They brought him no particuler item of information
but came to discuss the progress of the war in general, the situation of the
Finnish refugee group in Sweden and the developrient of their mutual collabora
tion. Whon they were both absent from Stockholm, PALE was their representative
and carried out their instructions. He was llALLAliAA's most outstanding orypto-
nl and at the sane time the guardian and archivist of the files and oquipment
which the refugee group had brought with them. l. woum lco come with
reports fron Finland three or four times. He had been Finnish Hilitary Attache
in Moscow and was, with SALOkORPI, in charge of HALLAiAA's agents behind tho
Russian linos. Alius, a Lavian radio c  to-analyst (oonsidored
second only to PALE) who had worked in Berlin before joining the HALLAMAA group,
was also in touch with OHODERA and MAASING (see below).
Orer a period of about ten months written reports were delivered to
ONODERA veecly, usually on Hondays, by WILLJLAiI or by Mrs. MAEKINEI, an mployee
of the Finnish Legation. The information contained in these reports (see below,
V, Summary of Intelligence Obtained) reached Stookholm in three different ways:
a。
3y radio. The Finnish Legation had a W/T set which was in
touch with Finland, (OlODERA believes that this was operated
vith the knowledge and tacit consent of the Swedes). In this
case the reports were usually written up by WILLilAll, PALE, or
KOEKKONE in Stoolholm.
b. 3y the Finnish diplomatic courier.
C.
By clandestine frontier crossers. This method was used
mostly in 1945. OlIODERA believes that they were secretly
assisted by the Swedes (probably llajor PETERSEW), but he
kmows no further details.
ONOnERA also had a Finnish source which was in no way conneoted with his
relationship to the General Staff: a former police officer named KUrIUs who
had collaborated with the German CELLARIUS during the first part of the war and
who came to Stockholm as a refugee Tate in 1944. OllODERA employed him as a
general informant for counter-esp1onage purposes. KUElIUS supplied Amerioan
publications, acted as intermediary between OllODERA and prospective agents and,
since he was vorking simultaneously for HORN and SALZINGER of the German I. 8.,
gave the latest information on German activities. OllODkRA paid him a total of
about 10,000 Kroner for his work.
b. Baltic
A. ONODERA
Of all OHODERA's sources at Stookholm, the best came from Estonia end
the other two Baltic republics. His contacts with them had been founded on his
23

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
SRARET GODDOL
General Staffs in 1936-1933 when he was Ifilitary Attache in Riga. During thos
years he had formed personal friendships with several of the officers and
worked very closoly with them in obtaining intelligence on the UssR. Aoting
in the name of the Japanese General Staff, he had succeeded in raking an re
ment with Ccl. HAasIuG, Chief of Departnent II of the Estonian General Staff,
to sot up u joint Javanese-Estonian organization through which Estonian gent
recru ted by the E.I.S. vere briefed by the Jupanose Military Attache, returned
to th E.T S. for further tre ning and thon sent into Russia. Resulting in-
telis ene vae to po slarer t both co ntrtos.
:A d to E.T.S. with 16,000
 Por taking
mtthe oint
arvhorovided
 and later from
ropoed eventually
Two I  ERA's closest ccllaborators in this undertaking were Major
 a-l. cs.  foo, in charre of the Estonian service's two
training centers for cgents, ran an espionage not insiue nussia, e members
of which were Estonians located in the folloving; places: Leningrad (a mall
proup the ciief of whi h was a doctor); Hoscow; the Volga region (among the
Estonian colonics); end eastern Siperia. o iuue, wio late scceeded
MAASING as loaI of tho E.I.S., also had sources in Russia.
CIOD)ERA wc:. recalled before he was able, himself, to witness the full
results obtained fromn this or anization. However, he says that it was so suo-
cessful that wiereas his predecessor, Col. T. OucllI, had sent forty cablod ro-
ports to Tokyo and OHODERA tvo lundred, his successor Col. T. TAkatsukI sont
three hundred in a shorter ti.e than either of them. ollonEk was highly oom-
plimented on this fact when he returned to Tokyo.
A sinilar joint arrangement vas made by OllODERA with Col. KIkkUs, ohief
of Departnent II of the Latvian General Staff, who had an eapionage training
school located at Dunabruck (Daugavpils) and a small organization which operated
in Ostrov, Pskov, and the neighboring frontier region. His assistant was Lt.
Col. PETERSON, sucoeeded by Lt. Col. ZERINS. After the Russians ocoupied Latvia
in 1940 thay discovered this organization and ZERMINS committed suioide. PErER-
SON fled to Germany, where he fought through the war as an officer in the German
army not connested with the Abwehr or the S.D. KIkkUS took refuge in Stookholm.
BIRZINS. Latvian Liinister of the Intorior and Chief of the "Latvian Volun-
teer Corps", also worked with ONODERA, who says that he is unusually intelligent
and well informed on Russian matters. After the invasion he went first to Fin-
land and then to Stockholm. There he cme into contact with OnoDERA's predecesor.
Col. NISHIMURA, who introduced him to YAMAMOTO of the Berlin Babassy as a man
who could be valuable to the Abwehr in work against Russia. However, the Germens
were against BIRZINS because his volunteer corps had opposed the German inspired
Latvian National Sogialist movement, and he was finally arrested by the S.8. In
spite of efforts made to secure his release, he disappeared. OwoDmRa says in
this connection that the intermediary most frequently used by the Japanese in
Berlin for obtaining special favors from the S.B. was Erau Von Rosmprml, wife
of a Latvian General who had been captured by the Russians.
During the war the Bstonien and Latvian General Staffs were disbamded end
the officers whom OrodmRa had known beoame scattered, either living as refagees
in Sweden or working for the Pinns and the Germans. Rowever, be memeged te heeg
in toush with them for collaberation whenever they were in a pesitiem te be wes-
ful to him. If their families were in finanoial difficultiee he helped them wéem
funde and other necessities whish could be obtained more casily ln Seodem thome
formed nd obtained some ef his mest interesting infermatiem frem
ether Japamese ebeervers in Barepe were wmeble to teusk.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.93)
SEORET-GOHTROL
OlODERA's closest and best collaborator vas Col. HAAsInG. A former
officer in the Czarist armies who had graduated fram the HInsk Military Aoa-
demy and fou ht in World War I as a captain, MAasIllG was chief of the Estonian
I.S. durin, the period of O.'ODERA's service in Riga. Shortly before the
Soviot invanion he movod to Stockholm where, as Estonian Military Attache, he
cont ina d o direct. Estonia: espionae epainst tho USSR. In 1941 he joined
 o.  C LiAus iCr pe E and with other Abwehr sections
rd  vays reported to OODERA
 AL 104?, at ONODERA's
re r trned to Stock
A chret independent
nteyee within
A.I 'I., I he was absent in Finland
and Go /. gave him a nonchiy salary c ctween 1,00o and 1, 50o Kroner and
also pccusional presents, From Stockholm he continued to direct his espionag
organicacion against the Soviet Union, using agents located in Estonia, Latvia,
Leningrud and Moscow, Thoy vore mostly Estonians from all walks of life and
included Courunist Perty members. Among them were some of his former colleagues
01 nθ 
n anturod and taken to Russia, like
Col. TOBERG of the Estonian Air Force, whom the Soviets put to work teaching
in a military academy. O"ODERA implies that TOMERG pave excellent information.
Can--nl DArnua. formor Estonian Chiof of Staff, and General UDE'S, Chiof of
Operations, were in sinilar situations. AASIlIG cold oTODEA that mest of the
senior Estonian officers had been givon such assigments by the Soviets. He
conunicatod with this organication by moans of agents among, the crews of
Soviot shia.
Althouh he was anti-German, HAAsInG had a number of sources within
Germany. Ie was a friend of Admiral CAllARIS, who held him in high regard.
OHODERA says that in l944, shortly before CAilARIS fell into disgrace, he wrote
"AASIlG a lotter in which ho described the position of Germany as being des-
porato and proposed that steps be tal-en irmediately to croate an organization
for the future. MAASIlIG's cllief source in Germany was the Estonian Col. JACOB-
SM, wio was able to furnish good information because of his special position in
the Abwohr. Goneral SAIDRA of the S.S. was also an informant. Another was Col
GROsS'A!, an Estonian who had attended the Ecole de Guerre in Paris and was
active during, the war in Upsala and in Germany.
I.AASIiG had excellent connections among officers of the Swedish army
becauso, in the prenwar days when he was chief of the E.I.S., the Swedish
Genoral Staff had sent some of their officers to study under him. Col. JULIN-
DAlnFELD recently appointed Chief of the Swedish I.S. and former Military Attachè
in Berlin, and Col. KAEMPF, also of the S.I.S., were among, his former pupils.
General JUNG was a Triend of MAAsING, who was also very close to Major PETERs.
OllODERA believes that in addition he had valuable contacts within the Swedish
crypto-analytical section, probably among Finns who had tranaferred from HALLAA's
service. le was in close touch with the Swedish State Police, which he had been
instrumental in organizing before the war. This organisation funotions under
the Winistry of the Interior and is responsible for civil counter espionage.
?HAASING's oontact was with PALJIGREM (?), one of its directors.
Among, the Finns, HAASIIG's best friend was General 'TLADER. HALLANAA
was hostile to MßLAnDE! because the latter had "deserted" the allianoe of Baltie
nations in l942 at a cruoial moment. Later this fact was forgotten and at the
end of 1945 they were working, together again.
HaasING also ad a number of sources mong the western Allies. The best
was GArNImR, the Frozoh (Gaullist) Assistant Military Attaché. Simee Gamrm
was inexperienoed and did not have sufficient funds to pay maasine fer istells-
him as stupid and eays that he was woll ware of masi ne's eommeetiem
Jupanese, oven trying to uee kdm to btadn codmna'a helg ia moe

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.90)
SEGRET GONTROL
between Conaul CARLsOl and an American intelligance operative of the me me)
and the Englishmen CKEBBIIIG (?) and CHESHIRE. (For a description of the
raterial vhich OHODERA received from MAASIIIG, see below, V, Summary of Intoll-
i gonce Ontained.)
Lrot to. close friond cf OHODERA from the Rica days was Col. JACOBSEN,
Lescribed a: a very clever man who was irierested above al: in politics and
irino
Arter the Soviet in ar on io led to Cermany. Being a
noc no ab car cnd uced for special missions
t.
 ch with MAASIHG, but
e political
f jobless in
roStockholm.
e was res-
Ji. ALPYREUT, the head
12
 UIN-DAFEID, who for-
warded his luttern o Co)EtA chrough the Swedish diplomatic pouch. At the end
of tho war vo wer interned in FLEiSBURG. He hed fone there in an attempt to
rOuCh U.
psots.  had formerly been a wealthy
man, but his proporty in Estonia had been confiscated and nis veiu,ic in
Berlin destroyed by bambing.
o  r re ainin: contects aon th psco s d Col. S.
Maj, Khi TA and Aloxei de  GA . A.I G'e successor as head of the
Estonicn I.S., SAAR El is deseribed by OHoDM:A as s most intinate Estonian
friend. He worked or the Gernans throughout the war, though not always at their
bidding, und keps in touch with O.'ODEkA. He htd exeellent contacts with the Poles.
KTIA! se also below, B.) whan (oDdRA as known for ten years, was
larrely reoponsible throurh his ability to handle espionage agents for the suo-
cess of thc joint Ja anese-Estonian penetration of the USSR whioh was organized
before the var After serving as Estonian il:tary Attache in Finland in 1940-
194l and leter vorking for the Abwehr. ho care to Jcockholm in 1944 and offered
to work for CoDgkA The latter gave him a yetr's living expenses out of grati-
tude for his forier services but says that KiIsTIAN had changed markedly over the
years und vus no longer trustworthy, therefore, the offer was refused. OnodERA
states emphatically that e did not receive any intelligence from KRIsTIAN at
this time or at any other tine during the var.
BEI ECARDE was an excoption among OliODERA's Estonian sources because he
was not corneoted with the Goneral Staff, and OtonERA had not knowm him before
the war. They first met in August 1942 at ONonERA's Stockholm office to which
BELLEGARDE cane fron Germany with a card of introduction from JACOnSEI, whom
ONODERA had previously asked for sources on England and America. BELLEGARDE
continued to work in and out of Germany for the Abwehr, meanwhile visiting
Sweden fror time to time and reporting to OHoDERA on German activities. Early
in 194e he moved his housohold from Berlin to Stockholm. Planning to go to
England, he proposed to OloDERA that he act there as an apent for the Japanese.
OlTODERA says that in spite of the fact that he was distrustful of BELLBGARDE
he agreed to the proposal because he had no direct contact in Great Britain and
the riak from his standpoint was not great. BELLEGARDB left in September 1944
and fraw then until the ond of the war reported rogularly, even arranging to
have the New York Times overseas odition sent to OloDkRA once a week. (See
below, V, Sumnary of Intelligence Obtained.)
. 
While n00CHI was stationed in Riga (1939-1940) he oarried on the es-
pionage operations initiated jointly by his predecessors, OmODmRA emd TAKaTsUkI,
with Col. HaasInG, heed of Department II of the Estonian Gemeral Staff.
His chief collaborator was Major KRIs, who ram a treiing emter mese
before the Soviet iavesiom KRisrIan west to Éelsinki ee Bptemim malst

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.92)
between Consul CARLSOl and an Amerioan intelligence operative of the
and the Englishmen ICKEBBIIG (7) and CIESIIIRE. (For a desoription of
material vhich OHODERA received fram MAASING, see below, V, Summary ef
igence Obtained.)
Another close friend of ONODERA fram the Riga days was Col. JACOBS,
desoribed as a very clever man who was interested above all in politios and
diplomatic intrigue. After the Soviet invasion he fled to Germany. Being
friond of CANARIS, he was taken into the Abwehr and used for special missions
in the Baltic countries and ccoupied Russia. He was in touch with MAasInG, but
independently of that fact he sent OnODERA occasional reports on the politioal
situntion in Germany. When CAllARIS was disrraced, JACOBSEI was left joblea in
Berlin and OloDEA elned him and his family with money and supplies from Stookhol.
ii excel ent contacts in Sweden. OroDEkA believes that he was res-
ond le r he o ginn contnct between CAlUAI IS and CoI. ALDERKREUTZ, the head
L   a s rin of LIN-DAFELD, who for
 th S dish ploratic pouch. At the end
Hero in an attempt to
born a vealthy
07
:Ca1
iu!  the
: A Ls
 aost intiate Estonian
Friond.  orhod or ahe er througho the var. though not always at their
biddin, md e i.: touch w: th o.'ObkA. He htd excellent contacts with the Poles.
YA se also below, B.) whan (oDMRA as known for ten years, was
larely roponsiule throurh his ability to handle espionage agents for the suo-
cess of ir join Ja ancse-Esconian penetration of the USsR which was organized
before to var Afier servin es Estonian 1:tary Attache in Finland in 1940-
194! ard lster vork ng for the Abwehr, he core to Scockholm in 1944 and offored
to vork or CookA Tho la ter gave him a yeur's living expenses out of grati-
tude fer his forer serviccs but says that  IsTIAN had changed markedly over the
years d vas no longer trustworthy, therefore, the offer was refused. omodERA
states emphatically that e did not receive any intelligence from KRIsTIAN at
this time (r at any other tine during the var.
BELI ECARDE was an excoption among ClHODE'A's Estonian sources because he
was not corneoted with the Goneral Staff, and otonERA had not known him before
the war. hey first: met in August 1942 at OllonERA's Stockholm office to which
BEL EGA DE cane Fron Germany with a card of introduction from JAconSE, whom
ONoDERh d proviously askod for cources on England and America. BELLEGARDE
continucd o wori in and out of Germany for the Abwehr, meanwhile visiting
Sweden fra timo to time and reporting to OlloDimA on German activities. Barly
in 194 ho moved his housohold fram Borlin to Stockholm. Planning to go to
England, he proposed to OoDERA that he act there as an arent for the Japanese.
OODERA says that in spite of the fact that he was distrustful of BELLEGARDE
he agreed to the proposal becausc he had no direct contact in Great Britain and
the risk from his standpoint was not rreat. BELLEGARDE left in September 1944
and fra. tl en until the ond of the war reported rogularly, even arranging to
have the New York Tires overseas edition sent to OlODERA once a week. (See
below, V, Sumnary or Intelligence Obtained.)
B. U
While OllOUCHI was stationed in Riga (1939-1940) he oarried on the es-
pionago operations initiated jointly by his predecessors, OnODERA and TAkATSUKI,
with Col. HAAsIHG, head of Department II of the Estonian General Staff.
His chief collaborator was Major KRISTIAll, who ran a training oenter near
Tallinn and directed all recruiting, training, and dispatohing of agents. Just
before the Soviet invasion KRISTIAN went to Helsinki as Estoniam Military At-
taohè and began to work with the CELLARIUS Abwehr organisation. In August 1940,
because of Russian threats, he moved to Stookholm and then to Berlin where he
spent six months working in Abt II and III of the Abwehr. After Jume l94l be
returned to Finland to rum an espionage and sabotage training center for Es-
-26

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.89)
SEORETGONTROL
toniars ahout 30 kilonstors frcn Helsinki, nc resumed his contacts with
ONOJ I und CEIAR TUS, At ign O'OUCII recsived intelligence obtained from
the uc tivity of l.T.S. conts in Russia.  Iis roports to Tokyo this was
ref e o ts "o ("a")  itolligenee. In rot rn he gave exchange ma
teria pl ed by Tolso a collaborated n he priefing of agonts. He
a1.
  e no soo ononthl t the Estonian Goneral Staff
s ii an!ater in dollars. Shortly
14cl ed the last in-
 seoarato parts
 by
kipus
oc uontion and
 sionian General Staff,
who. o  icere vere seaesored rour Genmany and the Seaadanavian countries.
Howev r. o kepe in touch with YRISTiAi and bought fron him reports on the
USSR or fOCO Finn sh Marke apiece. OHOUCHI had another Estonian contact in
Admiral PTTKA, vwho sold hin rovorts on political conditions in Estonia under
the Soviet occupation.
In the case of the Latvian General Starr unOlcnl aguin iuiuriot a
Riga the situation which had been built up by OilODERA and TAkATSUKI. He worked
mith cc kixkUs. wio later fled to Stookholm. and with Lt. Col. ZERINS, who
committod v: cide in July 1941.
e coopornted on an espionge syscom similar to that conducted by the
Jaoaner ne tha Estonian I.S. The i.. ormition vhich OllouclI received as a
resul nr rofe red to in royorts to Tokyo as "Otsy" ("B") type. On the whole,
it wa: n cr ior in quality and quantity to that was obtained from the Estonians.
In exchn c or it O CuctI ave advice in she training of agents, Soviet in-
telli geuce cent from Tokyo and the monthly equivalent of 8o0 Yen, whioh went
to the Gei.eral Steff through KIKKUS.
- 27 -

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.91)
SHARET COUSROL
3. German
(For furthor details seo "Je anese Wartime Collaboration with the German
Intelligonce Service." SSu, 4 Cccober 196. DB #1239.)
A. GIIO ELA
1f nd dasagreed with
tacts with them
 d ny tended to
Juptu: and Germany
ence organiza-
Crn cources
  by saying
 Set yountiowith the ex
cepion oP YPAE ER, vore pmariy irtercs d in counter-ospionage, whereas
is n ain ob jcctive was positive intell ernce. German suspicion of the
activitics of RYBIYOWSKI in his office and hic on experiences with WAGNER and
irorcble mtual distrust. There follow
brief descriptions  his relationshins with various Germau persoualiviee;
for the results of his work with them see belc, v, Summary of Intelligenc
Obtained.
Acmiral CAAIS. OC EA first  et the chief of the Abwehr while,
as lilitury Atttch a Rire, he as on a trip in sstonia vith Oslnla. He re-
nenbers the dato as thut o! the oxecution or Marshal TUkiachlEVSkI, Kremlin-
purced Red Army 1ender (12 June 1937).
Duriny tho var they saw each other briefly whenever they were in
Berlin at tis samo tine, di cussing the ovcrall war situation and the needs of
thoir respec ive intelligonce services. OllODERA says that they got along well
with each other and becene lose frionds A further bond betveen them was
croated by tho fact that CA ARIS was also friend o? HAASIIG. JACOBSEI and IELANDER.
At ONODERA's  oquost CAlARIS sent him OKW reports in their original
form vithout tho usual cansorship by the Attache Depurtment. OHoDERA passed
these on to tho office of Gen, KolHATSU, the Military Attache at Berlin. KOATSU
considored this contact with CAlARIs to be most valuable beoause the Japanese
in Borlin otherwisc rooeived only material which had lost its value through
security prooesging before it reached thom. Such a situation had existed
sinco K ATsu's arrival in orlin early in l943, vhen previous direct colla-
boration between Ambassador OSlIA and the Abwehr was broken off by the Ger-
mana.
b. Karl Heinz KRAE ER. Although socially he knew KRArtER - one of
the Abvehr's most successful operators - as early as l943, ONODkrA did not
begin to work with him until August 1944 when they were brought together by
VON HEIllELAlll, the German Air Attache vho had been recalled from Stookholm to
Berlin. Fram that time on they collaborated closely and OlODERA considers
KRAElER to have been one of his most valuable sources. They met once a week
efther in the German Eabassy or in the office of onodERa, and from time to
time in the apartment of one of the latter's assistants. wazLaU, a Russism
specialist, who had joined kRamER in 1944, was often present. ouoDRA al-
ways went alone. He says that he revealed seme of his own sources but ueually
in an indirect manner so as somewhat to camouflage them. However, mam
revealed none of his except official Germen Air Force publicatioms.
o. Dr. (Col.) Hans Wamm. Chief in Stookholm of Abwekr K.0. Bekmede.
Be first made oontact with OomA on CanaRis's orders at the bepimming of los
From that time on they met ceeasionally when Wacnme had reeedved maberial frem
Berlin with instruotiome to pess it on to Codek. They did met got alenge
ooam tried to bribe the madd cerveate in hie hame. Zosever, he deee

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
OOHROI
l AASIlG, who lmew WAG ER's organization, had a low opinion of
his abilities, ar did most of tho other Gercans in Stockholm. This was one
of the reasons why Ol'onERA lade lirect contcct with Ast Oslo instead of
going through WAG R ac ho shoul huve done To keeo up appearances OloDERA
sometimes officiclly asked WAGN for coun or-espionage or security informa-
tion as, for instance, in the case of BELL GAlDE. Honever, the answers were
never satisfactory. WAcuER always promised a great deal but never produoed
anything of interost. O 'OIRA claims to know almost nothing about UTERARk,
WAGUER's assistant, Whon he norely sow onco or twice when UTER ARK came to
deliver cssages at his off co. After the July 20th (1944) plot egainst
Hitlor,  ODLRA was told in Oslo by SALZIIGER of Abwchr III F that UTERLARK
had superseded WAGi R in K.0. Schweden bectuse he had good connections in the
S.D.
d. Colonel Vol HEIl miAll, Air Attache at the Gorman Logation. Born in
the Beltic rogion, ho was a Russian specialist who spoke the language fluently.
ONODERA began to exc'hange intelligence with him in the sunmer of 1942. He gave
Soviet ilitary material and recoived from VOI HEIHEAmi infomation on the
Amorican and Britich air forces and on Soviet war industries, all of which came
from official German Air Force publications Generally speaking, the informa-
VOII HEINELAIIN hud many friends amog the Swedes. OHODERA believes
that ho evchanged in 'ormation wi h General Ur GDAHL, Chief of Staff of the
Swodish Air Foree. He was acalied to Bor  n in ceeover reei ana shortly be-
foro his depcrture he initi ated the oxchar es between OFODERA and KRAE TER, who
had been vorking with him. OHodERA nevor csteblished anything more than a
social relacion vith his successor, Colone GoLCHER.
o. Major VoU ROSENBLATT, Gernan Assi stant Air Attaché. He had fre-
quent contact with OHoDERA. They did not iako official exchanges of informa-
tion but VOI ROS NBLATT, an aircraft engineer, kept ONODERA supplied with
material on the latost German technical developments. He was born in Finland
and spoke Russian fluently.
f. Colonel VOU UMEAIIN, Military Attach&. He was OHODERA's closest
official contact among the Germans. They did not exchange material but met
about once a month to discuss intelligence matters and the over-all problems
of the var, each giving his opinion of future developments. von Utirianll's
job was devoted almost entirely to exploiting contacts in Swedish military
circles and he therefore did not have muoh information of interest to ONoDERA.
E. CELLARIUS. For the first three years of the war there was no
direct contact botween OHODERA and CELLARIUS. During early and suocessful
operation with "Gruppe Et of the Abwehr, CELLARIUS forbade the officers
working with him to have any contact with OOnERA because of the latter's
employment of RYBIKOWSKI. Nevertheless, OlIODERA was kept informed of his
activities by MAASIING through KALJUS, who frequently travelled fram Estonia
to Finland and gave OllouCiI reports whichn were in turn forwarded to Stook-
holm by courier. In 1944 ONODERA found out tlrough SAARSEN that CELLARIUS
was trying to organize counter-espionage activities against the Poles in
Finland. In October 1944 HORN, CELLARIUS's assistant, made contact with
ONODERA on his chief's behalf. He proposed that ONODERA act as an inter-
mediary for messages between CELLARIUS and certain members of the Finnish
I.S., inoluding HALLAMAA. However. the plan fell through and OHODERA states
that he received no information from CELLARIUS at any time, nor did he ever
have any more direct connection with him than has been stated.
h. Other Contacts. Throughout the war ONODERA made rogular trips
to Norway at the invitation of the German Commander-in-Chief, General vom
FALKEHORST. In 1942 he went on an official tour of the northern sone in the
company of other Axis Attaoh&s from Stookholm, among them Colonel GARBmA
(Rumanian) and Colonel ROERO (Italian). In 1945 he was personally invited to

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
ILAASING, who lnew WAGER's organization, had a low opinion of
his abilities, as did most of the other Germans in Stookholm. This was ome
of the reasons why OllODERA made direct contact with Ast Oslo instead of
going through WAGi!ER as he should have done. To keep up appearances Onod
sometimes officially asked WAGNER for counter-espionage or security informe
tion as, for instance, in the case of BELLEGARDE. However, the answer wore
never satisfactory. WAGllER always promised a great deal but never produood
anything of interest. O'ODERA claims to know almost nothing about UTEARk,
WAGER's assistant, whom he merely saw once or twice when UTER"ARK came to
deliver mcssages at his offico. After the July 20th (1944) plot against
Hitlor, C ODLRA Wn: told in Oslo by SALZJIGER of Abwchr III F that UTERLARK
had superreded WAGi R in K.o. Sc weden bectuße ho had good conneotions in the
S.D.
d. Colonel Voll HEIlmiAll, Air Attaché at the German Logation. Born in
the Beltic rogion, ho was a Russian specialist who spoke the language fluently.
ONODERA began to exchange intelligence with him in the sunmer of 1942. He gave
Soviet military material and recoived from VOl: HEIHEAli infomation on the
Amorican and British air forces and on Soviot war industries, all of which cme
from official German Air Force publications Generally speaking, the informa-
VOII IHEINLAIIll had many friends among the Swedes. OHODERA believes
+het ho evchanged in Pormation wi h General JU GDAHL, Chief of Staff of the
Swodish Air Foree. He was ecalied to Ber n in oooover lid ad chortly be-
foro his deperture he initiated the oxchar es between OVODERA and KRA ER, who
had been vorkin with hin. OuonERA nevor ccteblishod anything more than a
social relac:on vith his successor, Colone GoLCHER.
u. Major Vou ROSElmLATT, Gernan Asui stant Air Attaché. He had fre-
quent contact with OloDERA. They did not inko official exchanges of informa-
tion but VOI ROS HBLATT, an aircraft engineer. kept ONODERA supplied with
material on the latost German technical developments. He was born in Finland
and spokte Russian Pluently.
C. Colonel VOU UTEAlll, Military Attach&. He was ONODERA's closest
official contacs among the Gormans. They did not exchange material but met
about once a month to discuss intelligence matters and the over-all problems
of the var, cach giving is opinion of future developments. Von UtriAl's
job was devoted almost entirely to exploiting contacts in Swedish military
circles and he thereforo did not have muoh information of interest to ONoDERA.
E. CELLARIUS. For the first three years of the war there was no
direct contact botween OlODERA and CELLARIUS. During, early and suocessful
operation with "Gruppe E" of the Abwehr, CELLARIUS forbade the officers
working with him to have any contact with ONonERA because of the latter's
employment of RYBIKOWSKI. levertheless, OlIODFRA was kept informed of his
activities by MAASING through KALJUS, who frequently travelled from Estonia
to Finland and gave CllouCiI reports vhicih were in turn forwarded to Stock-
holm by courier. In 1944 ONODERA found out through SAARSEN that CELLARIUS
was trying to organize counter-espionage activities against the Poles in
Finland. In October l944 HORN, CELLARIUS's assistant, mede contact with
ONODERA on his chief's behalf. He proposed that ONODERA act as an inter-
mediary for messages between CELLAPIUS and certain members of the Finnish
I.S., inoluding HAILAMAA. However. the plan fell through and ONODERA states
that he received no information from CELLARIUS at any time, nor did he ever
have any more direct connection with him than has been stated.
h. Other Contacts. Throughout the war ONODERA made regular trips
to Norway at the invitation of the Gorman Commander-in-Chief, General von
FALKEHORST. In 1942 he went on an official tour of the northern sone in the
company of other Axis Attach&s from Stockholm, among them Colonel GARBEA
(Rumanian) and Colonel ROERO (Italian). In 1943 he was personally invited to
visit the German military installations and was guided by Colonel VON ROsBkRG
of FALKEmORST's staff.
In the same year ho established contact with the looal Abwehr
- 29 -
SEORET_COUTROL

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
SEORET COUTMOL
Stelle through Colonel IIOERST, also of FALKEMORST's staff. The chief of the
Ast was Captain VOn BOl!I!u, who was assisted and later suooeeded by Major von
GALLEI. Through them ONODERA arranged to receive reports on Allied military
activity in Great Britain -- troop movements, and air force and naval motivities.
The reports were transnitted to him through the office of vou UTF Am! three or
four tines a month. They were received by OilODERA's assistant Col. ITo from
one of the German Assistant Militery Attachès, VOU KOE IGSEGG of VON WATZDORF.
Some of tlhem oririneted in Berlin, but they vere operational and much better
than anything, recoived by KOATSU'g office. They ceased after 20 July 1944.
B. ONOUC!I
As Japanese Military Attachè at lHelsinki OHoucllI had few German contaots.
He vwas officially in touch with the Germen Military Attachb, Col. KITCL A,
and the Javal Attache, Capt. Von BollIn (he says that the latter spoke good
Russian and was the more interesting of the two), but they were more oooupied
with details of the alliance between Germany and Finland than with intelligonce
work. To OHOuC'II's astonislment, they were completely ignorant of vhat ws
going on when the Tinns first put out feelers for a separate peace With the
Soviets. In ceneral, the Finns saw to it that no contact took placd between
their German and Japanese collaborators: for instance, POEYHolEl took great
pains to keep Ollouc I away from the Finnish-German espionage training camps
located near Rovaniomi.
OUOUCIII had sole slight (and unproductive) dealings with GELLARIUS,
whose work was known to hin indirectly through KRISTIAll. On the whole, he had
a low opinion of it.
4. Hunrarian
(For further details soe "Japanese Wart me Collaboration with the Hungarian
Intelligance Service," SSu, 4 October 1946, DB #1241.)
A. OHODERA
To OlloDEu'; knovledge, there hes never boen any official collaboration
between the Japarese a:d Hungarian General Staffs on a basis similar to that
which has boen doscribod in the cas s of Poland. Finland and Estonia. Limited
cooperation did exiot in Budapost botwcen a group of Humgarian civilian and
military code ex erts on o one hand, and on the other Col. HAyAsII, the
Japanese Military Attacht, and Col. SAKuRAI. who directed a small crypto-
analysis section.
In Stockhol: Japaneso collnboration with the Hungarians vas limited to
offisial cxehonger otycen OucDRe's office and that of the Hungarian Military
Attache, Col. KOBOR. KOBOR hinself was accredited to botn weuen and Fin-
land and during he war resided in llelsinki because he was able to obtain
mcro veluable material there. Consequently, OllODERA rarely saw him, though
ONouc(I knew him well. le worked with  
 Pinnich
General Staff through PAAsOlEl, whose wife was Hungarian. OUODERA says that
his work was poor and that he wes lazy and a drunkard.
From February 1942 to January 1944, ONODERA dealt with a resident mem-
ber of KOBOR's staff, Col. VAGY. VAGY's experience in Department II of the
Hungarian General Staff before his arrival in Stookholm had been confined to
Rumanian affairs. OllODERA wae able to help him with background information on
the USSR, his primary target, and says that he was well qualified for his work;
he became one of the most successful intelligence officers in Stookholm. They
met once a week to exchange information and became close personal friends.
(See below, V, Summary of Intelligence Obtained.)
In January 1944, VAGY was replaced by Col. VOECZKOEDY, who had pre-
viously been with the Russian Seotion of the Hungarian I.S., and with Abt II
of the Abwehr in the southern sector of the eastern front. OlODERA desoribes
him as much more interested in the intornal political intrigues of the Hum-
garian diplomatic mission than in gathering intelligence. His sources, if he
had any; were probably among journalists.
OnODßRA saw him frequently but their contact was social and the

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
Stelle through Colonel HOERST, also of FALKEIORST'. staff.
Ast was Captain von BOnIll, who was assisted and later suooeeded by
four times a month. They were received by OllODERA's assistmt Col. Iro frem
one of the German Assistant Lilitary Attaohès, VOU KOEIGSBGG of VON WATZDO
Some of them originated in Berlin, but t'ey were operational and much better
than anything received by KOlArSU's office. They ceased after 20 July 1944.
B. ONOUCII
As Japanese Military Attachè at llelsinki OHOucllI had few German contaots.
He was officially in touch with the Germen Military Attache, Col. KIToL A,
and the Naval Attache, Capt. Voll BoliIll (he says that the latter spoke good
Russian and was the more interesting of the two), but they were more oooupied
with details of the alliance between Germany and Finland than with intelligonce
work. To OHoUC'II's astoniclment, they were completely ignorant of vhat ws
going on when the Tinns first put out feelers for a separate peace With the
Soviets. In general, the Finns saw to it that no contact took placd between
their German and Japanese collaborators: for instance, POEYHOlnEm took great
pains to keep Ollouc I away from the Finnish-German espionage training omps
located near Rovaniomi.
OUOUCIII had sone slight (and unproductive) dealings with GELLARIUS,
whose work was knowr. to hir indirectly through KRiSTTAll. On the whole, he had
a lo opinion of it.
4. Hungarian
(For Purther details soe "Jaoanese Wartme Collaboration with the Hungarian
Intelligance Service," SSu, 4 October 1946, DB /1241.)
A.OVODERA
To OHonsu'; kmoulodge, there he never boen any official collaboration
betvcen the Japarcse a:d Hunpgarian leneral Staffs on a basis similar to that
which has boon dosaribod in thc cs s of Poiand, Finland and Estonia. Limited
coopcration did cxi in 3 daport b twcen a proup of Humgarian civilian and
military code ex os o o cne and, and on the other Col. HAYAsII, the
Japanese Military Autacn, and Col, SAFlRAl. who directed a small crypto-
anolysis section.
In Stockthol. Jaoan o colitooration with he Hungarians vas limited to
ffial h orice and that of the Hungarian Military
Atteche, Col. KOnOR. KOBOR h nself was accredited to boch sweden anu Fin-
lanc and during he war resided in lelsinki because he was able to obtain
mero veluable ma erial there. Cousequently, OllODERA rarely saw him, though
ONOUC(T knew hin weli. lo vorneu w
P1nnich
General Staff through ?AAsOlEl, whose wife was Hungarian. OUoDERA says that
his work was poor and that he wes lazy and a drunkard.
From February 1942 to January 1944, ONODERA dealt with a resident mem-
ber of KOBOR's staff, Col. VAGY. VAGY's experience in Department II of the
Hungarian Genera? Steff before his arrival in Stookholm had been confined to
Rumanian affairs. OllODERA wec able to help him with background information on
the UssR, his primary arget, and says that he was well qualified for his work;
he became one of tho most successful intelligence officers in Stockholm. They
met once a weok to exchange information and becae close personal friends.
(Sec below, V, Sununary of Intelligence Obtained.)
In January 1944. VAGY vas replaced by Col. VOECZKOEIDY, who had pre-
viously been vwith the Russian Section of the Hungarian I.S., and with Abt II
of the Abwehr in the southorn soctor of the eastorn front. OoDERA describes
him as much more interested in the internal political intrigues of the Hun-
garian diplomatic mission than in gathering intelligence. His sources, if he
had any, were probably anong journalists.
ONODERA sew him frequently but their contact was social and they never
made any exchanges or studies together. He occasionally gave OoDERA miscell-
aneous information on political conditions in Great Britain and on the morale

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
SPORET_COLRL
of Allied soldiers in North Africa, and he described how he had formorly
cooperated vith FREYTAG VON LORIIIGIOVEI in training and orgenizing a group
of Polish agents and parachutists who operated behind the Soviet lines in
the Ukreine. He also sold OJODERA United Statos and British nowspapers and
magazines which he obtained allegedly fron British pilots through the Countess
CZERNIN. His relations with KOBOR, in contrust with those of VAGY,were exoellont.
He saw the Germans frequently and was in touch with KRAmiER. OHODERA says
that altlhough he was qualified to be a gcod source on the UssR, he was too
closely bound to the Germans to to trusted.
Ho returned to Hunga: y in the autumn of 1944 because the Swedish govern-
mont refused to recognize tl.3 recently installed Hungarian Nazi regime which
he supported. (For further mention of him see SSU memorandum DB #1233, 30
September 1946, "Possiblo Divo on of Funds...to the Training of Hungarian and
Finnish students...")
B. ONOUCIII
At Riga (1939-1940) (0Uc I had worked for a short while with the Hun-
gurian Military Attache before the latter was transferred to Jloscow. (When
 thisn 1 to the ungarian Army and in 1942 was taken
prisoner by the Sovicta.)
In Helsinki O'OUCHI new Col. KOBOR. though at first contacts with him
were dificult to make becutse koson made y p to unrary. Active
collaboration between t).on on intelligence matters began in September 1943,
however, when KOßOR becemo OlOUCT's best source for information about the wes-
tern Aljies. Becaure of his excellent connoction with Col. PAAsOlEN, he ob-
tained very complete material on this subject Iron the Finnish Attache Section.
(See below, V, Summary of Intelligence Obtainei.)
OHOUCliI describes the above-mentioned Japanese-Hungarian collaboration
in Budapest as "close" and says that in addition to assigning Hungarians to
the crypto-analysis office headed by Col. SAKURAI, the Hungarian General Staff
gave official permission for a Japanese military radio station to be set up in
the office of the Japanese Military Attache.
S1

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET GOUTROL
5。 Swedi sh
(For further detaile soe "Japanese Wartimo Contacts vith the Swedish Intelli-
pence Service,' SSU, 4 0ctober 1946. DB #1243.)
('cDEl. cluins to have lofe many good fri nds in Sweden -- more than did any
othe: renher o the Japaneso diplonutic mission. He says that this fact is duo to
his having always nade a point of keeping business and sooial matters striotly
separated, a courtesy nuch appreciated by the Swedes during the var. He had Imon
some oi the in Japan rovioisay: for instance, the GADELIUS family, whose firm
had  rtded petwoen the tvo coutries for severel generations and whose ohildren
have Japanose names. The IURT  Asol family vere a similar case. He had a long
stancing acqunintanceship with such Swedish diplanats formerly acoredited to Japan
as BAGGE, vuo hai been Minister for many years and who knew ONODERA's family; and
RIPA ard SCIJD(W, who had both been Counsellors.
His best friend was Professor Bock, the icthyologist, who had studied in Japan
for many years He also knew General THOERIlELL, General EIREISVARD, Admiral
STROEIW OC", Count DOUGIAS. end Count BOIIDE, and was active in the Japan-Sweden
Club, whose president vwas Admiral DESCiAlPS and whose vice president the engineer
 ded current events with these people, he
clains never to have asled any of them for intelligence information, and he says
that they were all correspondingly grateful to hi. OloDERA's and his wife's
popularity was evidenced by tho fact that their Svedish friends gave a large tea
party in their honor shortly before the repatriat on; there was no such prty for
Minister OKA oTO or fer any other rmember of the mission.
Obtaininf; intelligence fron offioial Swedish cources vas very difficult and
OoDERA says that the greater part of what he succeeded in getting came to him in-
directly through other sources liko :AASING or KRAEiER. He describes the Swedish
people as being most reserved in their offices and most likely to talk, if at all,
when they are drinking at a party. He cites as an exampie the case of General
NORDEISCIIIL), Conunander-in-Chicf of the Swedish Air Force, who in 1943 at a fare-
well cccktail party in honor of Col. GARBEA, the Rumanian lfilitary Attach, gave
OllODERA a detailed account of American and British Air Force concentrations in
England and forecast the date of the impending bomber offensive against Germany
with considerable accuracy. OllODEA  s that this information turned out to be
very useful.
ONODERA vas never able to get complete information about the Swedish I.S. He
was in touch with each of three chiefs of the General Staff, Dept. II, who sue-
ceeded each other during the war: Col. ALDERKREUTZ, Commander LANDQUIST, and Col.
JUHLIN-DANNFEID. He says that the intelligence command changed because the Swedes
wanted to keep up with the progress of the war as it developed in favor of the
Allies. ALd)ERKREUTZ had been known as a friond of Admiral CANARIS. LAHDQUIST
was not discreet about his contacts with the Germans; OlODERA once met him tra-
veling on the plane to Berlin in the company of WAGNER. JUILIN-DANNFELD he describes
as having been pro-German while he was lilitary Attache in Derlin at the beginning
of the war, but as having later espoused the Allied cause with great vigor. ONO-
DERA was also acquainted with Col. BOERNSTR JORNA end Col. KAEIP of the Military
Intelligenoe Seotion, with Major PETERSEN of the Espionage Service, and with BOHDE
of Counter-espionage. He exchanged intelligence only with ALDERKREUTZ and PETER-
SEN (see below, V., Summary of Intelligence Obtained).
6. Relations with Other Japanese Missions in Europe.
(See also "Japanese Wartime Military Missions in Europe," S8U, 4 Ootober 1946,
DB #1245.)
The various Japanese military missions in Europe comrunioated frequently. Theis
representatives gathered onoe a year at an official Attaohè meeting whioh was pre-
sided over by the senior afficer present. At these meetings each Attache gave a
82

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.89)
as seen frot is post. On the basis of these observations a joint report inoor
porating such rocon ondetions s were degned r.ecessary vas dravm up and forwarded
to Tokyo. )) A has a poor pinion of the results aohieved by the meeting,
which occured us follcws:
1941
Borlii
Presidin! (ficer, Gen. BAilZAI.
1942
11
11
11
1"
n
1943
Poro
1)
1”
Gon. YOHATSU.
1944
ndat
”
11
Gon. OYA OTO.
I udd. tion it vae custoty f dif  err pests to supply oach other with in
fonasi on "or  se in oxchanges wit: roccign sc: ces. Eithor a report was prepared
ut the requos, of a spec ic  st, or popies ci reports to the General Staff were
forwarced sitlaneously ith o original. ( ODERA had agreaments for suoh x
changer wi i the fellowing:
8.
Bor i A er Tokyo, Berl  wan OodEr's nost inportant source of exohange
materi A U (she  isary Attacho) was occupied more with diplomatio
affuir: tha vith intelligence, but OlloDEtA was in touch with the heads of
di feret nections in his office from eaoh of whom he received information
on requvs
i.
Fran Col. KOTAll Etsuo who, he says, wes une most active member of
tho Military Atunche's offic, he received general information on
li wen a veva ercellent. KOTANI being one of
the ororosu Juoto oce oecielist in such matters.
j.i
From Ce, StI izush: he received trcop movement reports ohtained
fro  Gernan Gonere. Stat and fron Geruan Air Force Headquarters,
with uhich IopI ves Laison officer.
iii,
Fron Coi. IS IZuKA ho cbtaingd infon ction concerning Soviet war
production and technic l developrents. IsHIzUkA vas liaison offi-
cer v t). he Econoric ection and the Armament Department of the Ger-
man Goneral Staff. lHe had cpent two years in Russia and knew Soviet
tec nicl mothods weil
iv.
Fre. Col. HIGuchl Fukasn! he reeoived reports concerning the Abvehr
(Ab J and III) and tio Gestapo and Kripo. With Ass't Military At-
tac YAA OTO, HI(UC van in charge of Liquidating the Japanese
pol  tict.l sabotare plan against the Ussk which had been handed over to
the Gorr ans in June 1941. Their work was kept highly secret. HIGU-
CII. had once served under OlODELA as an archivist in the Russian
Sec ion of the Japanese General Staff.
Col. SAyUkAI Nobuta, liaison officer vith the German crypto-analytical
sorviccs, cane once to Stockholm to take material which OoDERA had
obtainec fram HAILAiAA.
In exchenge for the infomation he received from the above sources,
OODERA supplied military intelligence on the Russians and the wes-
tern Allies as well as reports of German troop movements on both
fronts. The latter were espocially appreciated by the Japanese in
Berlin because they were difficult to obtain in Germany.
b. Helsinkl. ONODERA's exchanges vith ONOUClI were made several times a
month by courier. OlfOUCHI supplied some Soviet material not obtaiued
by ONODERA from lis other souroes. In return OODERA gave general in-
formation about Soviet and Scandanavian matters.
c.
Madrid. At the Attachè meeting held in Rome (1943) ONODERA had agroed
with Col. SAkURAI Keizo, the Military Attache in Spain, for a regular
series of exchanges betveen Stockholm and Madrid. SAkURAI sent reports on
the armed foroes of the western Allies in Europe and North Africa. He
obtained them from official Spanish sources and from what ONODERA heard
to be Hungarian and Italian agents. OnODERA sent back information de-
rived from the Swedish General Staff and from BELLEGARDE.
33

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
d. Lisbon. At the Romo meeting OvoDERA hed made e similar arrangoment
exohia ges with Maj. General MISIiIliA, Iilitary Attaohe in Portugal.
ISiILA's contribution consicted of press studies taken fram Britich
American publicatiors. which were more plentiful in Lisbon than in 
neutr l coun ries. oDEA upplied hin with copies of the reporte mo
to i.f.rid,
OObE A lanies that o recsived any military information on other than
persoal ncscages frx the office of the lilitary Attache in Switzerland
He v frequontly in comunication vith the Berne Legation but says thet
mont f he correspondence i question concerned the health of one of hi
reitt ves who hat feilen ill there and who subsequently died.
He had same conversetions with Goneral ArEIclI, the Nilitary Attache ip
Ankarn, but never oficially exchenged information with him. He says
that lthough TATEICI had Polish sources, the information which he cited
as having; boen obtiited fram them was fragmentary, disconneoted and far
in'erior to what OJODERA was getting frum RYBIKOWSKI.
Before ths outbreas of the Russo-German war, exohenges of Soviet material
with the Military Ittachh in Moscow were frequent; after June 194l, these
re Po  .    di n  Pis.
Bucharest or Sophia. Those with the Budepest post were technioal and oom-
cornud only with cummunications and crypto-analysis.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
v.
SUTARY OF IITELLIGECE OBTAINE)
For an acoount of the intelligence exchanged among the Japanese themselves 
above, IV. 6., Relations with Cther Japanese Missions in Europe.
The following summery is concerlod largely vith Positive Intelligence. Through
their collaboration with the in elligence services or with various official
and nationals of certain countries vho were also among, their targets, the
Japanese inevitably cained conciderablo lmovlcdge of a Counter-Intelligenco
nature ccncerning thoso countrics. The general structure of what they mew and
told in the intorroration has boor. largoly covored in the foregoing account by
countries of their contccts and sources, hovevor, and only supplementary in-
stances are oited bolow.
It is reasonably certain that OHODERA and OIOUCII received from Finnish, Swodish
and perhaps Polish sources a good deal more intelligence on the western Allies
than that admitted to in their interrogations and given here.
1. General Summary by Sources
Nationality lame of Page Subsource and/or
Target
of Source
Source
Rof. Nationality
Nature of Intelligence Supplied Country
a. Polish
(A. ONODERA)
RYPIKCUSYI 15 Extonsivo network
Various and detailed,
USSR. &
of Pelec incl. JA-
incl. OB, troop movements, Germany
KUBIC @ KUC VICZ
baces, strategy and
in Bo lin, othors
tactics, economic intell.
at Bialy. bok, Hinsk,
Smoleasl, Warcew,
Kaunes, ocnigsberg.
Riga, He sind, Narwa
BRZESK-
16 GAIIO (Polish I.S.
Declaration of var, troop
WINSKI
Chief) in London
movements.
RYBIYOWSKI in
Allied military activity
USA &
England
in India and Burma,
Gr. Brit.
(B. OMOUCIII)
ZABA
27
Politics and internal
Finland
affairs.
BERSON
17 Provious contacts
General information, des- USSR
in Mescow
cribed as superficial.
b. l'innish
(A OIHODERA)
STEVIEN
22 Finnish Gen. Staff.
Soviet military strength. USSR
HALLAMAA, Finn.
Red Army Eastern Front OB. USSR
(Probably Swedish)
Internal political situation Gr.Brit.
" PETERSEN (Swed.)R.A.F. tactical methods.
健
(Allegedly a source
Allied troops in Iceland.
Western
located in Iceland)
Allies
Dept. II, Finnish
German Army Eastern
Germany
General Staff
Front OB.
35

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
SBORET-GONTROL
Nationality Name of
Page Subsource and/or
Target
of Source
Bouroe
Ref. Nationality
Nature of Intelligenoe Supplied
Country
b. Finnish WILLMAN
22
Finnish refugee
Soviet flest aotivities and
USSR
(oont.)
group in Stock-
troop movements in the Baltio
holm; personal
area; codes.
sources
German troop movements.
Germany
Resistanoe movement activities.
Finland
Military and diplamatio oodes.
Gr. Brit.,
Franoe,
Vatiean,
Portugal,
Turkoy,
Rumania,
Yugoslavia.
HORMGREN
22
Source located in Soviet naval activity.
USSR
one of Baltio States
KUMENIUS
23
HORN & SALZINGER, Publications (magazines).
USA &
German
Gr. Brit.
2
"Latest info on Gorman
activities."
Gormany
7
CE vetting services.
(goneral)
PAASONEN,
23 Generally, the
Soviet code material (both as
USSR
HALLAMAA,
widespread con- codes and as subject matter).
KALMUS,
tacts of the Finnish
PALE &
refugee group
Security services: protection
(goneral)
(incl. crypto
of ONODERA's codes.
section) of
Stockholm
Reports on progress of war.
USSR
PALB
23
Finn. crypto
Info that Swedish crypto sect.
Sweden
sect。
had brokon ONODERA's goneral
aode.
SALOKORPI
23
PALE archives
Soviet oodes.
USSR
of Finnish crypto
seotion
(B. ONOUCHI)
POEYHONEN
20 German forces in/Finnish Gen. Staff reports on
USSR
(in his
Finland & Dept. II, development of war.
absence,
Finnish Gen. Staff
SALOKORPI
Allied oonvoys in Murmanak &
Allies
or RUNELA)
frohangolsk.
Dept. II, Finn.
Technical: planes, tanks,
USSR
Gen. Staff
rooket gums.
n
Military training methods.
War production capacity.
n
Interrogation of P.O.W.'s
36

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
SBORBTOONTROL
Nationality
Name of
Page Submouroe and/or
Targot
of Souree
Bouree
Rof. Natienality
Nature of Intelligence Supplied
Country
b. Finnish
dI Seet. of Dept. CI reports & ammual "persen-
Allies
(cont.)
II
ality primer."
Bstimates Sect.
Reports.
II
SALOKORPI
20
Esptonage" 1I
Use of propaganda & doveption
USSR
material in combat by Rod Army.
PALE
20 Crypto
Codes of all nations.
USA.
Gr. Brit.,
USSR,
Turkey,
othèr
SLOEOR
20
Finniah Gen.
Fimish Army & war capacity.
Finland
Stafi Attachè
Frapmontary German litto.
Germany
Sootion
LAUTKARI
21
A Finnish newa-
Internal conditions end politi-
Finland
papor
cal developmonts,
SHIHIMAN
20
Not given
Internal conditione.
Finland
c.Estonian
(A. ONODERA)
MAASING
aff, WAGNER (Gorman); CE: vetting of all CNODERA's
(general)
Sovist press
now souroos and agents.
office; Stoskholm;
British passport
control office, do.;
Swodish police
Entoniad:
Agenti in Esto- Probably various.
USSR
nia, Latvia, Lon-
ingred & Moscon
Officers on Sov,
General Staff:
TOMBERG, RAIDNA,
UDENS
JACOBSN (Abwehr)
"Good information," inoluding
Germany,
plans for invasion of USSR.
prob. USSR
GROSSMAN (1n Swo-
Unknown.
on & Germany)
Finnish: NELANDER
Probably CE.
(goneral)
Indiv. unknown
Teohnical and soientific.
USSR
German:
n
CANARIS
Unknown.
Prob. USSR
CELLARIUS (Ab-
Germany(?),
wehr "Gruppe E")
USSR
SAIDRA (SS)
SS Divisions.
Germany
Abwehr
OB reports.
37

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.95)
BBORET-CONTROL
Nationality
Name of
Page Subsouroe and/or
Targot
of Source
Bource
Ref. Nationality
Nature of Intelligence Supplied
Counttry
c. Estonian
MAASING
Swedish: Army
Unknowm; probably various.
(general)
(Cont.)
(Cont.)
OfTicers JUHLIN-
DANNFELD, KAEMPF,
JUNG, PETERSEN,
crypto section,
state police
(PALMGREN)
PETERSEN (7)
Military activity
USA
Gr. Brit.
Polioe
Advance notiso of Swedish CE
Sweden
measures.
Indiv. unknowm
Arnhem attack plans,
USA,
Gr. Brit.
Franch: GARnIER Troop movanents, OB
France:
USA,
Gr. Brit.
R
Polit. & mil. developments
France
imerican:
Unknown, if any.
CARLSCN
British: McKEBBING,
R
CHESHTRE
Subsourees in
Troop movements, political, war
USSR
generel
potential.
Unknorm
Publications.
USA.
Gr. Brit.
MAAS ING
Unknown
Atam bomb.
USA?
(9)
7
V-weapons.
Germany
7
Tank produotion.
USBR
BELLB-
28
Abwehr; Swedish Probably various
esp.
GARDE
& Russian agents;
Gormany
Swodisn Army; Est-
onian refugee
Allied attsck and oooupation
Western
group; CARLSON
plana.
Allies
(Amorican consul)Alliod army for Far East.
CHESHIRE (British
Impert Contr.
Troop movements and OB.
USA,
Off.); resi-
Gr. Brit.
dence in
Arrival of oonvoys in England.)
England
Second frent.
Internal and political.
France
Internal conditions.
Germany
JAOSEN
25 Abwohr; CANARIS
Political
Germany
(Via JUE-
LIN-DANN-
FELD)
38

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
SHORST CONTROL
Nationality
Name of
Pago
Subsource and/or
of Souree
Sourde
Ror.
Nationality
Hature of mtelligence Supplied
o. Estonian
KRISTIAN
26
CELLARIUS (Germ.) (Indireot results only, thru
UBSR:
(oout.)
the Finms, none from KRISTIAN
Germsmy?
himsolf.)
SAARSEN
26
Gorman (Abwehr); Unknown.
prob. UBSR.
Germeny
Poliah
(B. ONOCHI)
UBBR/
PITTKA
27
POEYHONEN (Finm), Political.
& PITTKA's con-
Estonia
taots in Estonia
d. Latvian
(A. ONODERA)
KIKKUS,
24
Latvian network
Probably various.
UBSR
PETERSON,
in Ostrov, Pakov
ZERIIUS
& neighboring
frontier area
BIRZINS
24
Uninown
Unknowm
USSR
(B. ONOUCIII)
KIKKUS,
27
Latvian Gon.
Probably various.
USSR
ZER'INS
Staff
. German
CANARIS
28
Abwehr
OkW reports; interrogation of
USSR
(via
Soviet P.O.W.'s, Soviet mili-
(to ONOD-
WAGNER)
tary publications.
Western
ERA only)
Troop movements in India.
Allies
n
Military studies in chemical
Germamy
and biologioal warfere.
3
Conversational sitreps, die-
USSR,
oussion of needs of German &
Westorn
Jap. intelligence services.
Allies,
Germany
KRAEMER
28
Abwehr
Technical reports on aircraft
USA,
produotion; airborne & ground
Or. Brit.
foroe troop movements.
Ger. Air Foroe
Floet movaments.
Gr. Brit.
Unknowm
U.S. attacks on Okinawa &
USA
Philippines, in advance.
Unionown
U.S. Air Foroe delegation
USA.
to USSR.
USSR
Sedish
Metal produotion.
UBBR
Unkmown
Publications.
USA, Gr. Brit.
Unkmewn
Tanks and artillery.
Gr. Brit.
KRADER
Unknowm
Atam bomb.
UBAT
(9)
-39-

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
Subsource and/or
Bationality
of Bourve
Wane of
Bouros
Paco
Wationality
Nature of mtelligenee Supplied
USSR
Ge
KRABER
28
Unknown
Tank production.
(cant.)
(1)
VON
Western
UT.DIAN
29
VON BOTIN & VO
Military activity in Gr. Drit.
Allies
GALLE (Gormen)
(general)
Swedish Military
Wonthly disoussion with OODERA
Circlos
of intolligence matters.
USA,
VON UBI- 29
Official German
Air force information.
Or. Brit.
NEANN
Air Foree publ.
USSR
War industrios.
Germany
Latest Germen tech. dovelop.
VON RO-
29
German
SOIBLATT
USA
RIEDEL
Berlin
Names of sections of U.S. War
Production Board.
(Gorman
Asd't Air
Attaohé, Stockholm)
Allies
KOENIGSEGG 
German
Ganaral information on the
progress of the war.
VON WAT- 30
ZDORFF
f. Hungarian
(A. ONODERA)
USA
VAGY
30
Probably Swodish, Pacific offensive plans, in
perhaps LANDQUIST advance.
Western
Unknowm
Miso. data on Allied forces
Allies
in No. Africa & westorn front.
Hungarian Gon.
Military forces, tech. dovelop., USsR
staff
war produotion.
Germ ny
Indirectly from
Germ. western front On
Swed. Gen. Staff
(subsouroes in gen-
eral inoluded Swed.
F.O., Gen. Staff &
prob. Crypto Seet.s
STERES (Finn):
GARNIBR (Frenoh)
USA,
VOECZ
30
Allogodly British Newspapers and nagasines.
Gr. Brit.
KOEHDY
pilots through
Countess OZERNIN,
a Csech raised in
Vienns
Or. Brit.
Unknown
Misccllaneous political.
Western
Unknoem
Morale of soldiers in No.
Allies
Africa.
-40-
COORDT COWTROL

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
BHORET GONTROL
Nationality
Name of Page
Subsource and/or
Target
of Source
Bource
Raf.
Nationality
Nature of Intelligence Supplied
f. Hungar-
ian
(B. ONOUCI)
(Contd.)
AOBOR
30 ff. Finmish M.A. at U. S. shipping and war produo-
USA
Washington; PAA- tion; 1942 industrial outlook.
SONEN. Finnish
Attachà Section
PAASONEN & Fimm- No. Africa OB, late 1943.
USA,
ish Attaché Sect.
Gr. Brit.
IMisc. reports on Germ. Army.
Germany
Soviet activ. in Balkans.
USSR
Soviet Army & Air strength.
Finn. Gen. Staff Tech. reports on ordnance.
g. Swedish
(ONODERA only)
PETER-
32
Swed. Gon. Staff Western front OB.
Western
SEI
Allies
Troop movemont reviews.
A11
belligerents
"(T)
Soviet troop movements on
USSR
Finnish & Baltio fronts.
"(7)
Germ. eastern front OB.
Germany
”(T)
Technical studies: e.g., on
Germany
rocket bombs.
Swed. Secret
Semples of German sabotage
Germary
Police
apparatus.
(Possible sub-
sources of some of
the above: attachôs
& diplomats of amall
countries)
JUHLIN- 32
JACOBSEN
See JACOBSEN.
DANIFELD
(Estonian)
ALDER-
32
Swed. Gen. Staff, Troop movements; Baltic
USSR
KREUTZ
Dopt. II
Fleet OB.
NORDEN-
32
Swed. Air Force
Air force concentrations,
USA,
SCHILD
bamber offensive (inadver-
Gr. Brit.
tently given).
MANSON
32
HANSON Import-
Disoussion of trade and
(general)
Export Co.(Swed.) produotion trends.
8
Legation bulletins.
USA, China
-41-

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
SEORET CONTROL
Nationality
Name of
Page
Subsource and/or
Target
of Souroe
Bource
Ro.
Dationality
Nature of Intelligence Supplied
Tountry
g. Swedish
HALM
Skandinaviska
Swedish Quarterly Review and
(general)
(cont.)
STROEN,
Bank (Swed.)
other eoonamic publ. giving
Direotor
worldwide production figures.
Assistance in draming up
(general)
econamic reports.
ESSEN,
Dagsposten,
Artioles on internal conditions
UA,
lianager
Swed. pro-Nazi
Gr. Brit.
newspaper
VICKLUND
Personal ex-
Disoussion of trip to Britain.
Gr. Brit.
perience in
Great Britain
TIYNE
Swedish firm of
Prioe quotations and market
Swed. &
GADELIUS
conditions.
general
Frau
Swediah procs
Translations.
LARSBER-
CHER (employee
in ONODERA'
office)
2.Detailed Summary by Target Countries
Items affecting the United States and Grent Britain jointly, as well as a few concerning other
of the Allies thsn those two or the UssR, wiil be found listed under b., Western Allies.
Targot
Date Obt.
Sourcs and/or
Subsource end/or
Country
Description of Intelligence Obtained
(When known)
Nationality
Nationality
USA
Reports dealing with the atom bamb.
Aftor Oct.
KRAETMER (Gorm.)
Unknown
(2)
1944
or MAASING
(Estonian)
USA Plan for the general U.S. offensive
Time of
VAGY (HunG.)
probably Swed.,
in the Pacific (subsequent develop-
attack on
perhaps
mente proved thi information to
Bougainvillo
LANDQUIST
have been accurate).
(page 32)
Plan for tho U.S. attaok on tho Aleu-
1 month
n
tians, and other information about
in ad-
U.S. forces in Alaska.
vance
Report of the forthooming U.s. attacks
"Suffioient KRAER (German)
Unknown
on the Philippines and Okinawn.
ly in advance
Desoribed as not detailed enough.
to be inter-
esting"
Reports of U.s. Air Force delegation
Between
visit to Soviet airfields in Siberia.
Aug. 1944 
(OnODERA says he never received
May 1945
further conrirmation.)
Reports on U.S. plane produotion, in
Horthly
Unknom
Written in
great detail and containing production
during
German
figures on various plane types.
1945
-42

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
Target
Date Obt.
Source and/or
Subgouree end
Country Desoription of Intelligence Obtained
(Whon Known)
Wationality
Nationalsey
USA Report, seemingly derived in part from
Barly
KOBOR (Ung.)
GRENDAR (apell
publications, on naval and merohant
1944
ing?), Finmish
marine shipping, in the U.S.
N.A. Washington
General revort of war production in U.S.
Industrial outlook in U.S. in 1942.
1942
7
PAASONEI & Pinn.
Attaché Seotion
Names of the different sections of the
RIEDEL (Gorm.
Derlin
War Produotion Board.
Ass't A.A.)
U.S. diplaatio code (see concluding
1943
PALE (Finn)
Fimish Crypto
seotion 3., below).
(broken
Section
1941)
U.S. magazines (publications).
late 1944-
KULTITUS
Unknown
July 1945
(Finn)
Western Allies
A report of plans for the Allied at.
!HAASING (Est.)
Swedish
tack on Arrheim (sic). Thie doubtloss
refers to Arnhem, where paratroops of
the First Allied Airborne Army landed
15 Sept. 1s44. No comment as to how
far in advance or how aocurato.
Roport of a gecond Alliod attack on
After D-Day
BELLEGARDE
Unknown
the southern side of Cherbourg Penin-
(5 Jume
(Estonian)
sula, scheduled for Aug. 1944. (This
1944)
report was considered important by the
Germans, who hed been expeoting, the
second attack fron the north in the
vioinity of Honfleurs and l Havre.)
Allied plan for attack in the
Deo. 1944
BELLEGARDE
Unknonm
direction of Osnabruck in larch 1945.
(Estonian
(The Germans had expected such an
in England)
attack in July.)
Detailed account of U.S. and British
1943
HORDENSCHILD
(Swedish Air
air force concentrations in England,
(c-in-C of
Forca sources)
with a considerably accurato forecast
Swodish Air
of the impending bomber offeneivo
Forco)
against Germany. (ONODERA says this
information turned out to be very
useful.)
Very detailed reports on airoraft
Monthly,
KRAEER
Probably official
production in U.8. & Great Britain.
Aug. 1944
(German)
German Air Foroe
Sometimes contained important items
May 1945
publications
about now methods or changes in the
location of faotories.
Western front B: doteiled studies
2 or 8 00-
PETERSE
Swedish General
by the Swedish Gen. Staff. (ONODERA
casions
(Swedish)
Staff
mentions one he gave to KRAg.ER as
betwoen
having been dated 22 Peb. 1945.)
mid-1943 &
April 1945
- 43 -

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
SBORET GONPROL
Pargot
Date Obt.
Souroe and/or
ub sourse
Country Desoription of Intelligence Obtained
(When known)
Nationality
Nationalie
b. Western Allies (oont.)
Reports on Allied convoys In Murmansk
POEYHONEN
Finnish General
and Archangelsk.
(Finn)
Staff; partly
from Gorman for-
cos stationed in
Finland.
Esoellent reporte on movement of Al-
Regularly
Unknown
Unknown
lied air bases in Duropo with details
during
of OB, plane types, etc.
1944
Reports on the passage of Allied
7
Gorman
planes through (sio) Gibraltar.
Reports on changes of oommand in the
Regularly
n
Unknown
military foroes of the western Allies.
in 1944 &
early 1945
Detailed report on organization in
Farly 1945
BELLEGARDE
n
England of an army for the Far Eaat.
(Estonien
in England)
Details of mobilization and troop
Before
CANARIS
Abwehr
movements in India.
Har. 1944
(German)
via WAGUER
Allied military aotivity in Great
3 or 4
VOH UTI-
VOIN BONIN &
Britain, trcop movements, air force
times
VON GALLEN
and naval aotivities. sone of these
nonthly
(Gorman)
(German)
originated in Berlin but wero opora-
from 1943-
tional and much better than anything
20 July
received by the Jap. H.A. office there.
2944
Arrival of convoys in Dritain.
id-1944
BELLEGARDE
Unicnown
(Estonian)
Anmrera to quostions about the
n
Second Front.
Fragmentary reports on Allied troops
STEVEL (Finm)
According to
in Iceland.
STHEI!, a souroe
in Iceland
Technical material on new U.S. and
Aug. 1944-
KRAE ER (Germ.)
Probably official
British plana types.
MMay 1945
Germ. Air Force
publications
D of U.S. and British Air Foroes in
n
Durope and India. Those of Europe
were detailed, containing group num-
bers. plane types, armement and base
loostion.
Desoription and movements of U.S. and
(OWODERA thinks,
British airborne divisions.
judging from the
style, that this
may have come
from e British
military source)
General U.S. and British troop move-
n
Offieial Germen
ments on all fronts.
A.F. reports
(The same type
of info was also

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
Date Obt.
Souroe and/or
Desoription of Intelligenos Obtained
(Wheen lndwn)
Wationality
b. Western Allies (oont.)
Reports on Allied convoye in Murmanak
POEYHONEN
Fimica
and Arohangelsk.
(Finn)
from Gesmmm
ces statiomed im
Finlend.
Escellent reports on movement of Al-
Regularly
Unknown
Unknown
lied air bases in Europo with details
during
of OB, plane types, etc.
1944
Reports on the passage of Allied
Gorman
planes through (sio) Gibraltar.
Reports on changes of oommand in the
Regularly
Unkmown
military foroes of the western Allies.
in 1944 &
early 1945
Detailed report on organization in
Early 1945
BELLEGARDE
3
England of an army for the Far East.
(Estonien
in England)
Details of mobilization and troop
Before
CANARIS
Abwehr
movements in India.
Har. 1944
(German)
via WAGUER
Allied military activity in Great
3 or 4
VOU UTI-
VON BONIN &
Britain, trcop movements, air force
times
VON GALLEN
and naval aotivities. Sane of these
nonthly
(Gorman)
(German)
originated in Berlin but woro opora-
from 1943
tional and muah better than anything
20 July
received by the Jap. H.A. offioe there.
2944
Arrival of convoys in Dritain.
Mid-1944
BELLEGARDE
Unknown
(Estonian)
Anawera to quoatione about the
e
n
n
Second Front.
Fragmentary reports on Allied troops
STEWEI (Finn)
According to
in Iceland.
STETEI!, a souroe
in Iceland
Technical material on new U.S. and
Aug. 1944-
KRAE ER (Germ.)
Probably official
British plana types.
YMay 1945
Germ. Air Force
publications
B of U.S. and British Air Foroes in
Europe and India. Those of Europe
were detailed, containing group num-
bers. plane types, armament and baso
Iocation.
Desoription and movements of U.S. and
(OWODERA thinks,
British airborne divisions.
judging from the
style, that this
may have come
from a British
military source)
General U.S. and British troop move-
n
Official German
monts on all fronts.
A.F. reports
(The same type
of info mas also
furnished by
HAASING, PETER-
SE!, BELLEGARDE)
-44-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
SHORS?-GOWPROL
Date Obt.
Source and/or
Bubecuree 
Deantry Depoription of Intelltgance Obtained
(When Known)
Nationality
Raticnalfty
b. Western Allios (cont.)
Swedish Gen. Staff reviews of troop
Mia-1948-
PETERSEI
Swedish General
movarents of all bolligeronts on all
April 1945
(Swedish)
starf
fronts.
Iimo. data on Allied forces on the
Feb. 1942-
VAGY (Ang.)
Unimown
western front and in No. Africa.
Aug. 1943
Warale of Allied soldiers in
1944
VOECZKOEDY
No. Africa.
(ung.)
B of U.8. and British forces in
Late 1945
KOBOR (Lung.)
PAASONEI & Finm.
North Afrioa.
Attaohé Sootion
Genaral info on progress of var.
Weokly
KOENIGSEJG 
(Office of Gorm.
fram Oct.
VON WATZDORFF
IR.A., Stookhokm)
1944
(German)
Reports desoribing Alliod plane char-
1945
Unknorm
(In English, ovi-
acteristios.
dently not writ-
tan by a toch-
nician)
U.s. md British Air Foroe info.
Mid-1942-
VON HEINE
Official German
Oot.1944
MANII (Gorm.)
A.P. publ.
Fimmimh Dept. II CI Section reports
POEYIONEN
As indicated
(Finn)
Pinmmish Dept. II Bstimates Section
" and
n
reports.
SALOKORPI
U.S. and British newapapers and
1944
VOECZKOENDY
Countess CZERNIN,
marasines.
(Hung.)
allegedly from
Brit. pilots
Ditto: The Economist, Tho Finanoial
UTTUS (Fim)
Unknows
News. The Finanoial Times, the New York
JHAASING (Est.),
Times, Life. Time, Fortune, oto.
KRAE TR (GOTM.).
IHumg. M.A., ot al.
Translations from the Swodish press.
Frau LARSBER-
Swodish newe-
GER (Swediah)
papers
of OIODERA'
office
Artiolee for Domai on intornal con-
ESSEI, pro-
(Presumably
ditions in U.s. and Great Britain.
Nasi Swede
sources of the
Swed. nows-
paper Daga-
posten)
Politisel and military developments
GARITTER
Gaullist Gen.
in France.
(Fronch)
staff, preb.
other French
souroes

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
SEORST CODTRIOL
Terget
Date Obt.
Source and/or
Ceuntry Desoription of Intelligence Obtaimed
(When known)
Nationality
. Western Allies (cont.)
Intarnal political conditions in
Apr. 1945
BELLEGARDE
(Personal d-
France.
(Eatonian,
servation in.
in England)
Uaroh 1946)
Chinese Logation (Stockholm) bulletin.
LLANSON (Swed.)
o. Great Britain
2 reports oontaining extensive material
STEWEN (Finn)
Prob. Swedish,
on R.A.P. tactioal methoda, described
perhaps PETER-
as most valuable. (OlOnERA wa can-
SEN
plimented by Tokyo HQ for getting them.)
Reports on British tanks and artillery. Feb. 1945
Probably
(Writton in
KRAEIER (Germ.)
derman)
Plans for Britimh Army of Occupation
Mid-1946
BELLEGARDE
Unknown
in Germany.
(Estonian,
in England)
Britich Govt. code of l934, camplote.
Har. 1945
WILLIAN (Finn)
Fim. refugee
orypto group
A report on the political situation
STEWEN (Finn)
Probably Swedish
within Great Britain.
Misc. info on ditto.
1944
VOECZKOEDY
Unknown
(Hung.)
Discussion (with ONODERA's assiatant
VICKLUND
Personal obper-
INOUE) of a trip to Britain.
(Swod.)
vation
a. USSR
Significant material
Soviet mobilization plan.
Spring 1941 MAASINO (Est.)
Unknown
Plans and desoriptive details of the
n
"Stalin Line."
Reports on Soviet Gan. Staff conver-
Late 1941 or RYBIKOVSKI
sations of Oot. l94l: disoussion be-
varly 1942 (Polish)
tween StalIn, who wanted to defend Mos-
oow at all costs, and TiOSTtENxo, who
adreoated retresting beyond the Volga.
lovement of Soviet reserves oalled back
frem the Volge line to defond Mosoow
(winter 1941-1942).
Seviet plans (Spring 1942) for strate-
1942
RYDIKOWSKI
Gie retreat to Don-Stalingrad-Volga-
(Poliah)
Xuben line.
Reports conoerning removal of Soviet
wer industry to the Ural region.
The Soviet operational plan for the
n
central front.
46

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
BEORET CONTROL
Terrat
Date Obt.
ourse andfor
Country Desoription of Intelligoncs Obtained
(When Knowm)
Nationa Tay
Wationall
d. USSR (COnT.)
Soriet Gen. Staff estimates of German
2223
RYBIKONSKI
Unknown
operations in 1942 (STALI!l feared a
(Polich)
German attack against the left wing of
the Moscow front).
Impending Soviet deolaration of war
After Gar-
BRZES NW IS KI
GANO (London
against Japan.
man surron-
(Polimh)
Polish I.S.
dor
Chief)
"ovament of 10 Soviet divisions to
n
the Far Bastern front.
Situation reports of the eastern front
Weekly for
PILJHAIN
Finmish
and of Soviet troop movements. These
10 months
(Fimm)
refugee
were most complote, containing detailod
prior to
group
identification of units and positions,
Japanese
but ONODERA complains that they always
surrender
camo too late to bo of use.
Regular reports on Soviet troop move-
3 or 4
MAASTIG
Uniknown
nents in Finland. Latvia, Estonia,
times a
(Eot.)
White Russia, Leningrad and (to a les-
morth
ser extent) losoow. They were vory
(exact
detailed, giving umit identifications
period
and pinpoint positions.
unknom)
Finnish Gen. Staff reports on dovelop-
every
POEYIOLEII
Finnish Gen.
ment of the war against USSR, troop
10 days
(Finn)
Staff, Germm
movements, air and ground foroe OB,
(exact
forces in
ordnance, suppli and roplacements;
period
Finland
naval activities in the Baltio.
unkmom)
Soviet Baltic Floet OB: a oamplete re-
April
ALDERKREUTZ
Swed. Dept. II
port which ONODERA passed on to the
1941
(Swodish)
Japanese W.A. at Moscow.
Reports on Soviet fleet and troop
Prior to
WILLHAI (Finn)
Fim. Gen. Staff:
movaments in the Baltic area.
Har. 1945
persomel sources
in Sweden
Complote OB of Soviet eastera front
STETE (Finm)
NALLAA of Finn.
armios (1 report).
crypto group
Reports on Soviet military forces,
Honthly,
VAGY (TunP.)
Dungarian Ges.
technical developments and var pro-
Feb. 1942-
Staff
duotion.
Oot. 1943
Technical reports on new developrenta
POEYIONEU
Finniah Gen.
in construotion of Soviet planes, tanke
(Finn)
Staff
and rocket cuns.
Estinates of Soviet stratogio reserves. Frequently
RYBIKONSKI
Unknown
after 1942
(Polish)
Detailed desoriptien of new Soviet
1948
WILLWAN
Fim. Gem. Staff
airoraft carrier.
(Finm.)
or personal
sources in
Sereden
-47-

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET CONTROL
Target
Date Obt.
Source and/or
Coumtry Desoription of Intelliponce Obtained
(When Known)
Nationality
d. USSR (cont.)
Extensive Soviet code material (see
Throughout
Various
Finnish Crypto
below).
the war
Finne
Seotion
Miso. Reports on Troop Movenonte, OB oto.
Soviet troop movenonts in Latvia, Lith- Feb.-June
RYBIKONSKI
Unknown
uania and East Poland.
1941
(Polish)
Ditto, northeastern & contral fronts.
After 1942
Reviews of Soviet military strength.
Monthly
STEWEN
Finnish Gen.
(exact por-
(Finn)
staff
1od unknown)
Soviet naval aotivity.
NORMGREU
Subsouroe in one
(Finn)
of Baltio states
Operational reports on eastern front.
Unknown
German B.S.
Soviet troop movements on the Finnish
Unknown
frant.
(Fim)
Ditto, northern seotor of eastern
Aug. 1941
ALDERKREUTZ
Swed. Dept. II
front.
(Swedish)
Movement of Soviet armies and divisions Between
PETERSEN
Swed. Gen.
on Finnish and Baltic fronte.
mid-1943 &
(Swedish)
Starf?
Apr. 1945
Reports on strength of Soviet army
KOBOR
Fimm. Gen. Staff,
and air foroe.
(Tung.)
PAASOINEN & At-
taché Seotion
General info on progress of the var.
Woekly
KOENIGSEGG &
(Office of Germ.
from
VOU WATZDORF
M.A., Stookholm)
Oct. 1944
(German)
Soviet military training methods.
POEYHONEN
Finm. Gen. Stafr
(Fimm.)
Misc. Reports on Technical Subjeots, Produotion Capacity, War Potential eto.
Figures of railroad transportation of
Feb.-Jume
RYBIKONSKI
Uninown
Soviet war materials and troops in
1941
(Polish)
eastern Poland.
Soviet soientific and technical develop.
MAASING
German and
(Est.)
Fimish
Soviet war industry produotion figures.
Unknom
Figures and estimates of Soviet war
POEYHOTEN
Finnish Gen.
production capacity.
(Finn)
Staff
Reports on Soviet ordnance develop.
KOBOR (IIung.)
Finn. techmiciems
-48-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
GBORET CONTROL
Targot
Date Obt.
Source and/or
Bubpewre
Country
Description of Intelligence Obtained
(When Known) Nationality
d. USSR (cont.)
Soviet tank production.
Mar. 1945
KRAEER (Germ.)
Unknown
or MAASING
(Est.)
Soviet war industries.
Mid-1942-
VON HEINEHANN
Ofricial Germem
Oct. 1944
(Gorman)
air force
publications
Codes, CE Material, P.O.W. Intorrogations
Four Soviet military codes: (1) Five-
Nov. 1944
WILLIIAU
Firmish refugee
symbol operational code complete with
(Finn)
orypto croup
method for use; (2) Five-symbol MKVD
code complete with method; (3) Four-
ymbol tank combat conmunication code,
incamplete--about 20-25% broken; (4)
Four-symbcl air force commumications
code, ditto.
One four-symbol Soviet military code,
Jan. or
incomplote -- about 25% broken.
Feb. 1945
Four Soviet codes: (1) NKVD five-
Probably
PALE archives
digit, complete analysis (same as
SALOKORPI
of Finnish
above?); (2) NKVD five-digit, inoom-
(Finn)
refugee crypto
plete analysis; (3) and (4) military
group
combat commmication codes, possibly
for tank units (same as last tuo above?)
(Soe also concluding seotion 3., below.)
Soviet army use of deception material
Dec. 1940
SALOKORPI
Finnish Dept. II
and propaganda in combat.
(Finn)
Espionage Section
Finnish Dept. II CI Section reports
POEYIONEI
Finnish Dept. II
and yearly 'personality primer.'
(Finn)
CI Seotion
Reports on interrogation of Soviet
n
Finn. Gen. Staff
P.O.W.'s.
Ditto dealing with eastern Siboria.
Beforo
CANARIS (Gorm.)
Abwehr
Lar. 1944
via WAGNER
Publications, Political, Miscellaneous
Soviet military publications reoently
Before
CANARIS (Gortl.)
Abvohr
captured on the eastern front.
Nar. 1944
via WAGHER
Translations from the Swediah press.
Frau LARSBER-
Swedish
GER (Swed.) of
newspepers
ONODERA'= off.
Soviet political devolopmente in Fin-
MAASING (Bst.)
Unknown
land, Latvia, Estonia, Mhite Russia,
Leningrad and Hosoow.
-40-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
SEORET CONTROL
Target
Source and/or
Subsouree end/
Date Obt.
Country Desoriptiou -' Tntalligenoe Obtained
(When Known)
Natiallty
Nationalsty
d. USSR (cont.)
Political conditions in Estonia under
Rogularl;
PITTKA (Est.)
POEYHONEN (F1mm)
Soviet occupation.
fram Cot.
in late 1940;
1940
PITTKA's con-
taots in Estonis
Report on Soviet activity in Balkans.
KOBOR (Hung.)
PAASONE (Finn)
& Attache Seotion
(Genoral?) reports on the US3R for
KRISTIA!
CELLARIUS (Germ.)
which ONODERA paid 500 Yen apioce.
(Est.)
SALOKORPI (Fimm)
Finnish Dept. II Estimates Section
POEYHONEN or
Finnish Dept. II
reports.
SALOKORPI
Estimates Section
(Finns)
General info on the USSR -- super-
Fall 1940
BERSON
Provious contacts
ficial.
(Polish)
in lloscow
•. Finland
Intornal conditions and political
LAUTKARI,
Unknown
developments, especially with regard
Finnish
to:
newspaperman
. Impending peace negotiations;
Feb. 1944
(via Jap.
'finister at
b. Peace terms.
Aug. 1944
Helsinki)
Reports on Finnish army and war
SLOEOR
Finn. Gen. Staff
capacity.
(Finn)
Attaché Section
Military and political developments
SALOKORPI
PALE arohives.
in Finland.
(Finn)
Finn. refugee
crypto group
Info concerning activities of the
10 months
WILLU'AI!
Finmish refugee
Finmish resistance movement.
prior to
(Finn)
group
Japanese
surrender
Internal conditions -- rogular reports.
SHIHTA!
Unknown
(Finm)
Politios and internal affairs.
Oot. 1940-
ZABA (Polish;
Jume 1941
one of RYBIKOTSKI's
network)
T. Germany
Plan for invasion of the U8SR in
MAASING
JACOBSEI (Est.
June 1041.
(mst.)
in Abwehr)
Bstablishment of German air bases
Detween
RYBIKOSKI
Unknown
in Poland.
Fob. &
June 1941
Concentration of Germen foroes in East
n
e
Prussia and near Warsew.
(Through the above two items, OMODERA
was able to confirm other informatio.
which revealed the German plan to
attaok the USSR.)
- 50 -

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
Target
Date Obt.
Source and/er
Courtry Desoription of Intellipence Obtained
(When Known)
Nationallty
f. Germany
General strategio plans of the German
HAASTNG
SAIDRA (Germem
lligh Command for the spring of 1943.
(Bst.)
8.8.)
Very detailed reports on wostern
1943
VAGY (Ilung.)
Obtained indir
front OB.
cotly from swed.
Gen. Staff:
prepared by
JUHLIN-DAMNFELD
Soviet Gen. Staff estimates of German
Between
RYBIKONSKI
Unknown
operations in 1942.
July 1941 &
Deo. 1942
OB in great detail, including umit
"Bost in
LIAASING
Abwahr
identification and positione.
1941-1942"
(Est.)
Miso. material on the German army, inol.
KODOR
PAASONE: & Pinn.
a report on the limits of the German re-
(Ibmg.)
Attaohé Seotion
treat on the eastern front and an esti-
mate of German capacity to hold the
Beltic states.
Reports on German teolnical develop-
Between
PETERSEN
Swedish General
monts: •.g., V-1 and V-2 rooket
Oot. 1944
(Swad.)
staff ?
bambs. These were camplete studies
& Apr. 1945
with photographs.
German military studies of chemical
Before
GANARIS
Abwehr
and biological warfare mothods. These
LHar. 1944
(German)
were in great detail and were con-
via WAGTER
sidered interesting by Tokyo.
Germam Army OB.
After 1942
RYBIKONSKI
Unknown
(Polish)
Formation and oamposition of new S.S.
MAASING
SAIDRA (Gorman
divisions.
(Est.)
s.s.)
OB reports of German units on eastern
STENE (Fim)
Swed. Gen. Staff
front, reoeived regularly.
Dept. II
Ditto (armies and divisions).
!ad-1948-
PETERSEI
Swedish General
Apr. 1945
(Smed.)
starfi
Frequent reparts with estimates of
After 1942
RYBIKONSKI
Unknom
German wer industry production.
(Polish)
Techndcal developmants in Germany.
Unknom
Gorman
Latest Germen technioal developionts.
VOn ROSEN~
Official Gorma
BLATT (Germ.)
sources?
Semples of Germen sabotage apparatus.
Betweon
PETERSEI
Swedish Souret
mid-1945
(ssed.)
Poliee
and April
1945
military and oommaroial transporta-
1944
Unknows
tion on the Daube.
Periodic reports (goneral in scope?)
Aug. 1948-
BELLBGARDE
Sépt. 1944
(Bst.)

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
Date Obt.
Sourse and/er
Ney Degeription of Intell1gence Obtained
(When known)
MathonaHty
f. Germany
Gemmral strstegic plans of the Germen
HASING
SATTRA
ligh Commend for the spring of 1948.
(Bet.)
.8.)
Very detailed reports on western
1943
VAGY (Hung.)
Obtaised ind
front B.
Gen. Staff:
prepased by
JUHLIN-DASNFELD
Soviet Gen. Staff estimates of German
Between
RYBIKONSKI
Unkmown
operations in 1942.
July 1941 &
Deo. 1942
OB in great detail, including umit
"Best in
LIAASING
Abwahr
identification and positions.
1941-1942"
(Est.)
Miso. material on the German army, inol.
KOBOR
PAASONE: & Pinm.
a report on the limits of the German re-
(Itumg.)
Attaché Seotion
treat on the eastern front and an esti-
mate of German capacity to hold the
Baltic states.
Reports on German technical develop-
Between
PETERSEN
Swedish General
ments: •.g., V-1 and V-2 rooket
Oot. 1944
(Swed.)
staff ?
bambs. These were oamplete studies
& Apr. 1945
with photographs.
German military studies of chemioal
Defore
CANARIS
Abwehr
and biological warfare methods. These
Mar. 1944
(Gorman)
were in great detail and were con-
via WAGUER
sidered interesting by Tokyo.
German Army OB.
After 1942
RYBIKOWSKI
Unknown
(Polish)
Formation and oomposition of new S.S.
HAASING
SAIDRA (German
divisions.
(Est.)
s.s.)
OB reports of German units on eastern
STENE (Fimn)
Swed. Gen. Staff
front, received regularly.
Dept. II
Ditto (armies and divisions).
!1d-1948-
PETERSEI
Swedish General
Apr. 1945
(Swed.)
stafft
Frequent reports with estimates of
After 1942
RYBIKOWSKI
Unknowm
German wer industry production.
(Polish)
Techndcal developmants in Germeny.
Unknom
Gormen
Latest Germen technioal devolopmonte.
VOU ROSEN-
Official Gorman
BLATT (Germ.)
sources?
Samples of Germen sabotage apparatus.
Betweon
PETERSEI
Swedish Seuret
mid-1945
(ssed.)
Polioe
and April
1945
Military and commeroial transporta-
1944
Unknom
Unkmown
tion on the Damube.
Periodic reports (goneral in scope?)
Aug. 1942-
BELLEGARDE
Abwehr
Sept. 1944
(Bst.)
General Staff reviews of troop nove-
Between
PETERSEI
Swedish Genere
ments of all belligerents on all
mid-1945 &
(Swed.)
staff
fronts.
Apr. 1945
-51-

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
Parget
Date Obt. Bouroe and/or
Jountry Desoription of Intelligence Obteined
(When Known) Wationality
f. Germany (cont.)
Reports on the political situation in
Oooasion-
JACOBSEN
CANARIS &
Germany.
al until
(Est.)
Abwehr
Itar. 1944
Anmwers to OODERA' questions about
Sumer
BELLEGARLE
Uninowm
internal conditions in Germany.
1944
(Bot.)
"Fragmentary Germen material."
SLC:OR
Fimm. Gen. staff
(Finn)
Attaché Seotion
g. Sweden
Advance notice of pending Swedish CE
HAASING
Swedish Police
measures.
(Est.)
and other
Info that Swedish crypto servioe had
Carly
PALE of Finn.
Unknown
broken OHODERA' goneral node.
1946
orypto group
3. Foreign Code Haterial Obtainel by the Japanese through Collaboration with the Pimish
Crypto-Analymis Group
(For background see page 21, above.)
In his work with the Finns. HIROSE was associated with that branch of the Crypto-Analysis
Cection which ooncentrated on Soviet codes. He was ware, however, of the work of other
branches and knows that they were successful in brealing oodes of the United States,
Trest E itain, Turkey and other nations. On instruotions from Tokyo he had frequently
requested results obtained fram the study of U.S. material; they were refused until the
autumn of 1943, when he was given a diplomatic strip-type oipher whioh he desoribes as
consisting of 15 horisontal lines of 30 letters each and designated, he believes, as
"A-l." He says that the Finns were able to break this American code because of enoiphering
mistakes made at the Embassy in Viohy during 1941. The same code was later found to be in
use by the Amerioan missions at Bern and Chungking, the last messages whioh HIRoSE sw
having been dated December 1942. Ne adds that the Finns were sometimes helped in their
attempts to break new Americen ciphers by the fact that a new system would be used for
communications between European stations while the old system was still being amployed to
send the same message between London and Washington.
ONODERA denies that he ever had a U.S. code; he says that he repeatedly requested such
material from the Finns but received the answer that the Japanese already had the best
available in Tokyo. As indicated above, he did receive one complete British oode and
considerable Soviet material; and in Haroh 1945 he obtained from the Fimish refugee
orypto-analysis group (through the Finnish Naval Attache, Capt. WILLHan) the following:
a. One Turkish military attache oode, complete with method, whose name OuoDERA
remembers as "Gankai," and three or four inoamplete Turkish codes (nemos
unromembered). Ne was offioially complimented by Tokyo HQ for obtaining
.the complete one.
b. Two French (Vichy) diplamatio codes, inoomplete.
o. Two Rumamian diplomatio (?) oodes, inoamplete.
d. One Vatioan cede, inocmplete.
. One Yugoslav code, inoomplete.
f. One Portuguess oode, inoamplete.
The Finnish Crypto-Analysis Section's Russian branch (with which IIIROsE oollaborated)
was successful in breaking Soviet infantry, tank and sir foroe ccmbet commmications
oiphers. It failed to break the Navy "Red" five-digit code because call signs and keys
were changed daily fran the very beginning of the war -- a system later adopted by the
Red Army.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
The NKVD four-digit codes presented no difficulties. They varied according to the
regional divisions of the uss with special types for Hosoow, Leningrad, eastern
Siberia and the NxvD frontier guard posts. Individual codes differed through changes
in the additive tables. The best results obtainod with these orse from material inter-
cepted by the Japanese between Kemohatka and Vladivostok.
DIROSE describes the development of Finnish crypto-analysis during the war as followss
at the beginning of the invasion of Russia by the Gerins in Jume l94l, various weak
points in the Soviet Army codes were exposed by the German surprise attack. The Finns
easily deciphered these codes and when they tored the war in July they had already
accumulated considerable information on nə disposition and strength of the Soviet
armed forces which faced them. The vital five-digit code used by the Soviete in the
summer of l94l was easily deciphered because of its systematic arrangenent of digits
and the use of a set additive table.
At the end of l94l the front was temporarily stabilized and the Soviets tried to correot
the weaknesses in their cryptographic system. During the intervening period prior to
the distribution of a now cipher, they tried to strengthen the existing mystem by using
a double additive on each message. They began at that time a routine of revising their
codes at intervals of fram two to six months. They also controlled the use of additive
tables, dividing them into three categories -- one-time pads, rotating and general --
thus making it difficult to decipher messages unless a large number were mcoumuleted.
They used a tmo- to four-digit code of increasing, complexity, often changing both the
key and the oipher.
In l942, in spite of these difficulties, the Finnish crypto-analysts managed to keep
up with the changes in the Soviet codes. The major portion of the messages whioh they
deciphered were related to the German sector of the front rather than to their om,
since operations on the latter had almost ceased whereas the former continued to be very
active. The following conditions are described by HIROSE as being responsible for the
Finnish successes:
a. Interception of material from the Gorman front.
b. Simultaneous use by the Soviets of old and new ciphers during a poriod when
ciphers were being ohanged.
c. Ifistakes of enciphering (fixed habits and non-adherence to regulations).
d. Special characteristics of long messages.
•. Special characteristics of short messages.
During the spring of 1943 the volume of Soviet traffic greatly decreased, and there was
an over-all intensification of precautionary measures as a result of whiah it beome
impossible to decipher operational messages. The only success encountered was with four-
digit codes. In l944 difficulties increased. The Soviets employed even stricte seourity
moasures, instituted a large mumber of camunication regulations and greatly restrioted
the use of W/T so that the Finns found it no longer possible to break Soviet ciphers by
interoepting operational traffio.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
SPORET COUTROL.
APPEIDIX A: LIST OF PERSOIT EL, OFFICE OF TIE "ILITARY ATTACIE AT STOCKHOLI
ITO, Col. Kiyokazu, Ass't Hilitary Attache)
KIGOSIII, Haj. Yasukazu,
”
11
11
SATO, Maj. Tatsuya,
11
"
See Reference (c)
INOUE, Yoicli, civilian
SATO, Kichincsuke,
HIGUCHI, Lt Col Fukashi, Acs't Mi li tary Attnch
Though carr ed on the diplmintic Ist as accredited to Sweden and Finland, HIGuchI
was resident in Berlin where he worked wnder Cen YAMAMOTO (Ass't M.A.) on special
liaison witi the Abwehr (Abt II and III) and tho S.S, OlHODERA says that he was
officially assigned to positions in Stockholm and "l inki because he would thus
obtain diplomatic facilities for hus nove
ked with a liaison group
concerned with CHHAlDRA BOSE. (See abcve, IV. , 
with Other Japanese
Missions in Europe.)
HOP A, io
itoui epresontative. shipping, expert. He hed formerly been stationed in London and
had ure reli d to uh: United Staton. Spain, Italy, France and Germany, In Stockholm
he orked oi shippinr publicatioas tnd coding. He acted as intermediary between
OvonuRA and Frau HATnEll, an eaployee of the Finnish Legation, and meetings with
the Finns 'AAson. UALAAA and PALE were held in his flat. He was also in touch
with ERIcsson and FTikE in connection vith the preposed ball bearing purchases.
URA, Saburo
A painter wno had lived in lurop: for nany years and had been recruited for service
in the offico of the Hilitary Attache at Helsinki at the beginning of the war. He
came to Stockholm after the Finnish surrender in the fall of 1944. He was used
most frequently as a courier and general messenger. The Finns all knew him and he
therofore sometimes acted as intermediary with then, particularly with SALOkORPI of
the F.I.S. Espionage Section. OilODERA says that he was too fond of vomen and drink
to be trusted with serious intelligence work.
YOGOI, Shinichi
Japanese businessman married to an Estonian and formerly resident in Helsink. He
had lost all his possessions through the war and come to Stockholm as a refugee.
OllODERA found him already employed in the office when he arrived. YOGOI helped
with all the office work but it was never possible to trust him because he suffered
from a nervous disorder. In May 1942 he left for Berlin to work in the Manchurian
Legation.
SASAKI
A clerk fron the Japanese Var Ministry vho was originally assigned to the office of
the Military Attache in Stockholm. However, he never worked for ONODERA because
he had already been transferred to Helsinki by NISIIIIfURA late in 19:O. He subse-
quently went to Berlin where he worked with HIGUCIII. (See also APPENDIX B.)
KJESSLER, Karin (Mrs.)
Stenographer who was a member of OODERA's staff throughout his stay in Stockholm.
She was in charge of all matters requiring the use of the Swedish language suoh as
protocol, social invitations, etc. OlODERA says that she never participated in
any intelligence activities.
LARSBERGER, Mrs.
Employed during 1943 to translate Swedish publioations into English for OlODERA's
assistants who were preparing economic and teohnical studies.
-54-

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
RYBIKOWSKI @ RYBICKI, IICILAILOISKI, Piotre IWANOW
Ex-chief of the German Section of the Polish I.S. who possessed both a Russian
and a Manchurian passport. He wns carried on the office roster as a secretary
until expelled from Sveden because of German pressure in the spring of 1944.
(For further deteils see above, IV. 1., Polish Contacts and Sources.)
T following individuals have all been reported at various times as having been
con lected with OlfODERA's office, but he denies over having emploved or had mere than
casual contact with any of them:
GUKSIH, Boris (probably the same as KUKSII)
HANSEGARD, Hits
JERUSTROM, Kerl Ewert
LEDDIAR
LDBERGER, ric
SELAIDER, Moud
STALGARDE, Sixten
APPELDIX B: LIST OF PERSOMIEL OFFICE OF TIE HILITARY ATTACHE AT HELSINKI
HIROSE, Lt. Col. Etichi, Ass't lilitary Attache
At the begirning of his tour of duty in Helsinka HIRosE spent nearly all his time
in coll borct on with the Fiunish crypto-analysis group. Later on this was broken
off and he vook over the work of adniaistrative officer and paymaster for onoucíf.
or c description of his work see above, IV 2. a, Finnish Contacts and Sources;
for a biographicul sketch of subjoct, Reference (b).)
EIGUCHI, Lt, Col. Fultashi, Ass't IBlttary Attaché
HIGuClI was nover resident in Finlaad. He came to IIelsinki in December 194o to ob-
tain information on the use of propaganda and deception material in combat by the
Russien Army, collaborating in this work with SALOkORPI of the F.I.S. Espionage Seo-
tion, and again in 1941 and at the end of 1943.
KIKKAWA Akira.
Civilian assistant in oharge of office administration and coding. He was transferred
to Bulgaria when a Military Attache's office was opened there in July l944. He was
chronioally ill and umable to contribute much to office aotivities.
SAZAKI.
Cierk, worked on administrative matters end drafted final reports for Tokyo. He
always romained on duty at the office when OnouchI was away travelling. He had for-
merly been cssigned to Col. WISHlURA in Stookholm, but when the latter returned .to
Japan he was transferred to Fin  . He had previously been there on temporary duty
to substitute for KIKKAWA.
HAKATA Chozaomon.
Clerk, essisted HIRCSE in matters connected vith crypto-analysis and prepared the
reporte on thet subject for Tokyo. Ile also worked as a code clerk. He had pre-
viously been in the crypto-analysis office in Budapest and was suddenly transferred
to Helsinki without being requested by OllouchI. He knew the Russian languag but
could not speak it well.
- 55 -
SEORET GONTROL

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
SECPET COUTROL
URA Saburo.
Secretary. A former painter whon OuoucI deseribes as unfitted for work in a
military attache's office. He had fonmerly been in Stookholm with NIsunuRa.
The following officers cane to lHalsinki on special missions: HoJo, Lt. Col. in
the Medical Corps. He was sent ron Tokyo in March 194l to investigate the uso
of bacteriolcgical verfer by the Russians during the winter campaign of 19s9-1940.
His arrival was delayed because the Russians at first refused to give him a transit
visa. His findings revealed some evidence of the use of carbon poison bacillus
(?) on a small seale. He went to Berlin end remained there for the rest of the war.
KOTANI, Col. tsuo.
Camo to Finland in February 1944 as head of a mission of Japanese Army, Navy and Air
personnel to inspect Corman air force winter installations.
OCHIAI, 1st Lo.
Engineer. Came fror Berlin in July 194l to study conditions on the Eastern Front.
He returned to Berlin.
APPEIDIX C: JAPAESE JOURUALISTS T STOCYIOLH
1.
Danoi
SAITO IHasmi, SAZAKI Rinicbi.
Donei was the only service which vas actually connected with OHoDERA's office.
As stated above, he used it for eommunicating non-confidential matters to
Tokyo. These consisted of business, technical and military analyses prepared
by his assistants; material fron illegally obtained publications was sometimes
included. JmOUE was closely associated with tho Danei men in this arrangament.
SaiTo had previously worled in China, Berlin and Lisbon. He frequently came to
the Military Attach's office to discuss the var or arrange for the sending of
dispatches, but wes never in any sense a member of the staff. OnoDERA says that
he received more information than he gave.
SAZAKI arrived fron Italy at the beginning of 1944. He was SAITO's assistant
and played a subordinate role.
2. Yomiuri
URESIIINO, KITAURA Hiroshi, MAKI Shin.
URESIIIJO representod this service when OHODERA arrived in Stockholm. He was
hard working and intelligent and occasionally produced interesting items whioh
he passed on to the Ifinister or the Counsellor.
KITAMURA, in spite of his reputation as a savant, OUODERA considers totally
unsuited to intelligence work. He describes him as an intellectual cretin.
Shortly after his arrival he offered his services to OjoDERA and wanted to
work as an agent in the cathering of military intelligence, but OnodEnA re-
fused. In the spring of 1945 KITA URA reoeived no funds from Japan and was
reduged to such a preoarious state that OlODERA wes obliged to lend him mall
sums for living expenses.
MAKI Shin was assistant to KITATURA. He also borrowed money fran ONODERA in l945.
3. Asahi

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET_COUTROL
URA Saburo.
Secretary. A former painter whon OmouclI deseribes as unfitted for work in
military attache's office, He had fonmerly been in Stookholm with NIshnura.
The following officers cane to Helsinki on special missions: Hojo, Lt. Col. in
the Medical Corps. He was sent fran Tokyo in March 194l to investigate the uso
of bacteriological warfere by the Russians during the winter campaign of l9s9-l940.
His arrival was delayed because the Russians at first refused to give him a transit
visa, His findings revealed some evidence of the use of carbon poison bacillus
(?) on a small scale. He vent to Berlin and remained there for the rest of the war.
KOTANI, Col. Etsuo.
Came to Finland in February 1944 as head of a mission of Japanese Army, Navy and Air
personnel to inspect Cerman air force winter installations.
OCHTAI, 1st Lt.
Engineer. Came fro Berlin in July 194l to study conditions on the Eastern Pront.
He returned to Berlin.
APPEIDIX C: JAPAHEE JOURALISTS I STOCYIOLH
1.
Donoi
BAITO Hasmi. SAZAKI Rinichi.
Donei was the only service which vas actually connected with OHoDERa's office.
As stated above, ho used it for conmunicating non-confidential matters to
Tokyc. These consisted of business, technical and military analyses prepared
by his assistants; material fron illegally obtained publications was sometimes
included. JiOuE was closely associated with tho Danei men in this arrangament.
SAfto had previously worled in China, Berlin and Lisbon. He frequently came to
the Military Attach's office to discuss the war or arrange for the sending of
dispatches, but wes never in any sense a member of the staff. OoDERA says that
he received more information than he gave.
SAZAKI arrived fron Italy at the beginning of l94e. He was SAITo's assistant
and played a subordinate role.
2。
Yomiurs
URESHINO, KITAURA Hiroshi, AKI Shin.
URESIIJIO representod this service when OPODERA arrived in Stockholm. He was
hard working and intelligent and occasionally produced interesting items which
he passed on to the Mininter or the Counsellor.
KITAMURA, in spite of his reputation as a savant, OJoDERA considers totally
unsuited to intelligence werk. le deseribes him es an intellectual cretin.
Shortly alter his arrivai he offered his services to OJoDERA and wanted to
work as an agent in the pathering of military intelligence, but OnodERa re-
fused. In the spring of 1945 KITA:URA reoeived no funds from Japan and was
reduced to such a preourious state thet OlloDERA wes obliged to lend him amall
sums for living oxponsos.
MAKI Shin was assistant to KITAlURA. He also borrowed money fron ONODERA in l945.
3.
Asahi
WATANABE Shinichiro, EINA.
WATANABE had only social contacts with ONODERA. He got into trouble with tho
Legation for sending as information from his own sources material taken from
a copy of Time magazine which he had suoceeded in getting sooner than hip.
colleagues. He was succeeded by ENNA, whom ONoDERA hardly knew.
56

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
4.
l'ichi Nichi
KOGO Eiichi, desoribod as a lozy drunkard;
EATO Minuo;
 ( cotaro  Soe SSU enernr hm of that title; 7 October 1946, DB #1247.
APHD  A DLPLOPOOL
The apanone colog in Stockiolm w nt le up ontirely of Legation officials and a
few ournalists:  re vero no o Ja anese rosidents. The great Japanese trading
firmn of Clu'a,  taui and Mitsucs vero represented by Swedes and their Japanese
agonts only cane to Stcckhohn on ocuasional visits.
elloorRa kncws ono or enized intelagcnce activity within the Legation. e says
thut ther voro onl threc men qual Picd for such Work - TSUCHIYA Jun, KODA Jotaro,
URIu Matao - and cy vere prevonted frorn engaging in it by Minicter OKAioTo, who
vas stron y opponed to it on prine plo incofar as accrodited diplomats were con-
cerned. CoEkA, Who bitterly disl on the minister, says that he alvways obstructed
intelligence wor! whenever he could. Tho chief activity of Legation employees was
pross nd publication analysis. ODA eud TSuCHIYA had contacts with certain Swedes
and :ith EIT RI AaYy, e renegade Soviet diplonnt fran whom they obtained some use-
ful in or t on on lusnia. As prev cusiy nentioned, olloDERA made an unsuccessful
astemp: to obtain into lifence throu h press conferonces and discussions in propa-
candn neetngs
The Laval At aché. Captain MIIA ori, I, vas a radio specialist and had little
interont in obtaining ntelliponce by any but the normal straight forvard methods.
Jis nssistanes worlod (n pross analysin and he had same contacts among Swedish
spapers icluding Gunnar lUElLR. OHODERA never heard that he tried to get
information ron secre sources or ns connocted in any way with espionage. He does
not have a h'gh opinion of MIsilIiA' abilities and at one time arranged with Captadn
KOJDMA, the naval attache in Berlin, to have him replaced by Capt ain OJI. However,
the developmont of the war prevented this transfer.
Minister: OKAtOTO Suemasa. Arrived in Stockholm in November 1942. Formerly
stationed in the U.S.A. and in England. At the outbreak of war in
the Paci fic he was Consu! General in Singapore. He was interned in
India and aiter his relense by exohange came straight to Stcckholn.
He is a specialist in matters concerning, the United States and
Britain and considered by the Japenose to have been socretly in favo
of the Allies. ONODERA is omphatic in stating that he did everything
in his power to hinder the successful carrying out of secret intelli-
gonce activities by the nombers of his staff.
Counsellor: KODA Jotaro. In Stockholn from Feb. 1941 till Jan. 1945, when he
vas transferred to Zurich, Switzerland. Ho worked with DMITRIEVSKY
and was in touch with Jananese and foreign journalists. German
specialist. OllODERA says that he is well qualified for intelligence work.
First Secretary: YAMAGUCIlI Iwao. Arrived in February 1942 from Vienna where he
had been Consul General. At the time of the outbreak of war he was
Consul at Bombay and was interned in India. Subsequently he served in
Belgium and Germany. He was the administrative officer and head of
the financial section of the Legation.
First Secretary: TSUCiIYA Jun. Specialist in matters concerning the United States;
speaks good English. He had good contacts with members of the Swedish
Foreign Office, among them GAVE of the press section, GIENANT, and HEPP.
-57-
-SEORET CONTROL

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.90)
Tnird Secrotery SU3ITA. On duty in Stockholm fram October 1941 to Aprii
Formerly n Gormany and Switzerland. Did only Consular work. Lar
to join the staff of Yomiuri in Berl: .
Third Secretery: HaTToRI. Arrived the summer of 1944. Formorly in Vichy,
worked n press anelysis cnd matters relating to France.
Third Secreary: UIU Matao. Arrived in Decembor 1943 from Italy. He had
Po morl oeen in Englerd. His chief occupation wes press analysis
o' mitt s co cerning Tritain. OgoDERA considors him olever and
well-su ted to iutelli onoo work. He may have had a conneotion with
DITRTE/SEY.
A.tacho:
 Kinchi. r ved the sumer  194e. Jad fomorly been in France
nd Per al. His job wen enzlysis of British and American publica-
one.
A tao :  o Ryuichi. Arrived the sumner of 1944 with TO. Had formerly served
 tno ntted Suntes and Li sbo. Worked on United States pubiications.
A tace:  0 Kacu osh. Arrived in Cctober 1942, formerly In London, Eoonomio
apecialics.
A bac:8:
EJ0 Goichi Arrived in Jeotober 1942 from Germany. Expert in G
p maters.
E Men oni. Arrived in tho sumer of 1944, formerIy in France. Radio
i c vic an. o vas an ole man and knew little about the latent radio
wvelopor a. Ho vas in charge caly of the reception of the Caily
wws broaines a trom Tokyo.
cork
Ho. Arrived in the su nor of 1944 from Lisbon vith T0 and AlDo. Code
clerc.
C'erl:. HAT NAKA. Code clork.
C. erk: YAG JCI. In Stockholm since 1940. Worked undar YAMAGUCHI Iveo in the
cininis rative and finencial seotion.
C. ork: MA JRA. Also in administrative and finencial section.
O Pie: of the Navel Asteche
val Astaclé: sa Cptain Lor (see above).
Ar sinmant Ieval Attache. INABA, Capt.. JR. Came fron Italy in l944. Diebwsing
O ficer, carried out liaise  th the Lilitary Arteche's efrice.
Clork. YAI lAK. Crme to Stockdhobn ron Borlin. Stenogrepher.
Civilian erployee: WAKUTA Kohiohi. Engineer; arrived in April 1942 as üitsu-
bishi reprosentative. iad fomorly been in the United States.
Civilian employee: SEZAKI Haruo. Office clerk. Formerly in Paris, where he
had studied painting before the war.
Distribution:
PLEASE CLEAR WITH OFFICE
OF ORIGIN BEFORE INITIATING
G-2, CINCAFPAC, Tokyo
ACTION BASED OU TIIS LE1O-
TD-WDGS
(1)
ONI
(3)
State
(1)
CIG
(1)
58
FBI
(1)
BEORET GOTPOL
