894.20210 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In America. Pan-America Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaga (File 1155)
ID: 894.20210-1155   Pages: 87   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20210-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
VISN0
U
IAFF IRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0)
DEC 8 1934
RECEIVDNISION OF WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
DLPARTMENI OF STATE
December,4, 1934.
1934 DEC 18 AM 10 52
LA
Mr. Wilson
DIVTSION OF
head of M.I.D., he said thet the Var Depertment was
894.20210/1
again in receipt of &larming reports from Colonel
Schley, the Governor of the Panama Canal Zone, re-
garding Japanese activities in Central American and
northern South America.
The War Department accord-
ingly asked vhether the State Department would issue
instructions to diplom: tic and consular officers in
the six Central American countries, Colombia, Vene-
zuela and Ecuador, asking them to report any inform-
ation on Japanese uctivity, economic or political,
FILED
that might come to their attention.
1 1934
General Smith suggested that the reuest for
the moment be an oral one. I told him I would pass
it on to you and that if you had any questions or
observations you would undoubtedly get in touch with
him and if you desired that the request be made in
writing that you would talk that point also over
TM
with him.
Pierrepont Moffat.
WE:PM:VAS

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
MEXICAN AFFAIRS
DEC 20 1934
NaT Er2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3
RECEIVED
LATIN-AMERICAN AFFAIRBparlmnt of Sta
DEFARTMENYONATE
4.20210
MEMORANDUM
934 DEC 18 AM 10 52
Deoember 11, 1934
SRn
OVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND E ORDBC
st
A
WEV
ME
During a conference yesterday with Governor Schley
894.20210/
I spoke of the matter referred to in the attached memo-
randum. Governor Schley said that there had evidently
been some misunderstanding at the War Department. He had
said to General Drum that the Canal Zone authorities were
receiving absolutely no reports from the War or Navy De-
2
partments in Washington regarding information made available
to them concerning Japanese activities in countries near
the Canal Zone. He had pointed out to General Drum that
undoubtedly reports were being recei ved by the War and Navy
DE
Departments from the consular and diplomatio officers of
C
FILED
2
the United States in these countries, as well as from various
1
1934
independent sources available to the two Departments. He had
also suggested to General Drum the advisability of a coordinat-
ing board in Washington to analyze and evaluate the various
reports concerning Japanese activities in this area.
I told Governor Sohley that our people in the field in
this
K

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-a-
this area were fully alive to the importance of reporting
all Japanese aotivites, political and commercial, that came
to their attention, and that various reports were being re-
ceived. I said that copies of such reports were available to
M.I.D. and O.N.I. Governor Schley agreed that there was no
point in any further instructions to our people in the field;
the difficulty was in coordinating the work in the military
departments in Washington.
.He said that he would speak
further with General Smith and General Drum on this matter; and
I said that, in view of the message to me from General Smith
as conveyed by Mr. Moffat, I would also speak with General Smith.
I telephoned General Smith this morning and spoke with
him along the foregoing lines. He made a vague reference to an
instruction he had received "some four or five mo nths ago"
from General MaoArthur to work out some system of coordination
with the State Department regarding information on Japanese
activities. He said that he "believed" that the War Department
was to do nothing in the matter until it had heard further from
the State Department. I said I knew nothing of this. I asked
if by any chance he was referring to the arrangements made at
the time the fleet transited the Canal to the Atlantic side,
when an inter-departmental committee had been set up to deal
with counter-espionage questions. He said, no, that he had
been

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
been a member of that committee, and that the committee
had completed its task. He said that he would speak to
General MacArthur to see what the latter's directions were
in the matter.
As regards the phase of the matter raised by Governor
Sohley, I told General Smith: that reports received from
our men in t he field in the Central American countries, Panama,
Colombia, Venezuela and Peru conerning Japanese activities,
political and commercial, would, when they were of particular
interest, be sent to M.I.D. and O.N.I.; I said that while
this was being done currently I would recall to the officers
of the Division the interest of the War and Navy Departments
in receiving these reports. I also said that we would welcome
at any time visits from officers from M.I.D. and O.N.I. who
wished to discuss uch reports. As regards Go vernor Schley's
suggestion for a coordination board to study and evaluate the
military significance of these reports on Japanese activities,
I said that I assumed the General Staff would consider this
matter and that if the General Staff desired any action or
participation by this Department we would,presumably,hear
from the War Department in the matter.
General Smith said that he intended to discuss the whole
matter with General Drum and also with Governor Schley; and
that

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
that he planned to send an offioer of M.I.D. to this Division
tomorrow to discuss reports we may have recently received
bearing on this matter.
Edwin 0. wixson
ECW/EMG

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Me
DIVISION OF
MEXICAN AFFAIRS
RECEIVEL
MEMORANDUM
854.2021012
partment of State
Division of
CONVERBATIONMMUNIOITIONS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AND DS
DEC 15 1934
Department of State
Major Coulter, of M.I.D., called with reference
894.20210/3
to reports of Japanese activity in the vicinity of the
Canal Zone. He came under General Smith's instructions,
and with reference to Governor Schley's desire to be
kept informed.
He said that M.I.D. was particularly interested in
three aspects of Japanese activity: 1, infiltration
of Japanese; 2, military activities, that is, movements
of military and naval officers, etc; and, 3, espionage.
He said that M.I.D. was particularly interested in
having reports from Colombia because there was evidence
that the Japanese were concentrating their activities in
EC 2 6 1934
FILED
that country. I told him we would be glad to send a
special instruction to Colombia, reminding our repre-
sentatives there of our desire to receive reports on
Japanese activities. Major Coulter agreed that there was
no need of sending instructions at this time to the other
countries in that area.
He said what he would prefer, of course, wms to be
F/G
able to send a Military Attaché to Bogotá once more, but
that

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
that lack of funds had prevented the War Department from
doing this up until now.
He said that copies of our reports whioh he received,
were not send to Governor Schley, since they were held
to be strictly confidential and kept in special files in
M.I.D. This doubtless accounts for Governor Schley's
failure to receive adequate information. I suggested that
pertinent information contained in our reports might be
sent to Governor Schley confidentially, without objeotion
by us.
Major Coulter suggested that we hold periodio in-
formal conferences, at which time he will review the in-
formation we have sent to him, agree on what can be sent
to the Canal Zone, et cetera.
It was agreed that I should draft the instruction
to Colombia and Major Coulter would suggest another
conference after material from Colombia had begun to
come in.
Willard L. Beaulac.
LA:WICMS

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
THe UNDEH SECRLTHY
JAN9
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 8, 1935.
JAN 15 1935
M.I.D.'s report dated Deoember 28,
1934, covering Japanese activities in
Contral and South America.
Japanese political, economic and
immigration activities in these regions
are steadily increasing. For example:
Japanese exports to Central America in
1933 were Yen 4,237,000; for first six
months only of 1934 they were
Yen 12,736,000.
In Panama, Japanese exports have in-
creased from 2,657 in 1931 to $693,329 in
1933. Today, "Japan is second only to the
United States in exports to ranama. A
large number of Japanese trade representa-
tives have visited ranama recently, and
several important new stores have opened.
About 300 Japanese live in Panama. r'rom
various sources it is indicated that there
is continuous observation, hydrographic
sounding, and transmission of military
information by Japanese. Uur military
attaché"reports that "there is, in ranama,
an efficient working system of Japanese
espionage with a force adequate to carry
out any act of sabotage required of it".
The report covering ranama is, to
a greater or lesser extent, typical of
the
" (in Costa Rica)

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
the other Central American and nearby
South American countries. Faced by
trade restrictions in British territories,
by a Chinese boycott, and by threats of
restriotions in other regions, Japan is
making a determined effort to capture the
trade of industrially undeveloped Latin
America. Japanese trade infiltration
has seldom proved to be free of political
Implications.
WTT/DLY
894.20210/4

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.82)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ISION OF LATIN-AMERICAN
AFFAIRS
hu. wilhth.
This i the
ine 
B

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.88)
11
SEORET
Confdtl
file
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
VTT.
AN 7- 1935
W
Department of State
AF
MESORANDUN FOR THK ADJUTANT GRNERAL:
AN 7 1935
Subjeet:
of J IPAMENT OF STATE
sesivities ia Pand
894.20210/4
LOFFICE OF OMIC ADVISER
JAN 11
151985W
The Seeretary ef War. direets:
DEPANIMLII OF STATE
I. That e seeret letter, mubataatially as fellowe, be sent
te the Cammemding Geseral, Paneme Canal Depertment:
1. There are traammitted herewith, two copies of
é eeeset mmary of Jepenese larilteetien eesivisiee in
Pamme end vieiaity during the past twe yeare, eading
Rovember 80, 1084.
S. The ehief sourese of iafummatiem eu the wsbjeet
have beem the reperts frem your headeuarters. However,
894.20210
all peperts reseived by the War Departmeat have been
digested ia the preparatien of the summary.
S. New Lafermatiem reseived by the War Department
an thie subjeet will be made the basis of subeequent
reperts.
6. It La destred that you turatah eue cepy of the
II. In vieu ef the seeset mature ef these documeste, 1t 1a re-
gueated that they be prepesly oealed and delivered te Me. Beanlee,
Confidential File
ALJRED T. SMITH.
Brigedier Genevel, Generel Staff.
AN
THE SECRETARY
FILED
9 19
SPEGIAL
JAN 15 1935
MR. DUNN
16

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.89)
JAPAERNE INFLLERATION IN PANANA
AND VICINITY.
(To include Nevember, 1984.)
1. Ger.
At the present time Japanese politieel, ecenemie, and
immigretien aetivities in Central and South Ameriean coumtries are
steadily imereasing. of these activities, ecenomie penetretiom is
the mest premouneed. As an example of this, the export figures for
the first six months of l98e, as compared to the entire year of l9ss,
1llustrate the development of Japenese trade:
1935
1034
12.756.000
A11 Ceatrel merica..... ¥ 4,,000
14.099,000
22,159.000
All Seuth Ameriea.......
In additiem te the three factors mentiemed, reports from different
seurees shew that Japanese propaganda and espionage astivities are
being earried Ah the aree to some extent.
2. Infiltration in Each Country in the Paname Aree.
In order that the various angles of Japanese iariltration
in the peeerel Paname aree may be presemted, the econemie, immigraties,
propagamda, politieal, end espiomage activities in Paname, Coste Riea,
Celombia, Pera, Venesuela, and El Salvador are treated separately as
fellows:
(1)
Reenamis. In Paname, Japanese trede expemsien
has iaereased at sush a repid mate during the past year that, teday,
Japea is seeend to the Uaited States in experts to the Isthmas,- thus
replesing Great Britain. This premouneed change is showm by the felles-
ing imerease in trade:
Pereen tere of Increase
Vatye
2.687.04 (approx.)
16% 1nerease over 1031
1088
319.085.00
119%
"1988
1958
895,889.00
59.0%
"" lot oiz
1984 (let siz
409,159.75
mos. of 1988
mes. caly)
(M/A, Costa Riea, 9/24/34; letter C.G., Panama Canal, 5/31/34.)
-1-

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
In Cetober, lass, a Japanese trede csmmiesion
mited peneme, and atetemeate by same er ste membere were to the
ereet thet "Japen eammeree is te sell as mech as it ean, at priees
pemmitting no cempetitiem." This commissien had already visited
Seate Damimgs, Cuba, Puerto Riee and other Cemtral Ameriean coumtries.
Frem Paname the eomiesiem centinued on iato Celembie, Vemesvela end
ether South Ameriean ecumtries.
During the momth of Apr1l, 1934, a large mumber
of Japeaese trade represen tatives arrived in Paname. It ms evident
they intended to rediate therefrem in covering the surroumding coum-
tries, and by stay 1, 1934, as a result of the visit (0etober, l9ss)
of the trade eommission, tons of Japenese merchandime had resehed
Pamema. This deluge of goods was consigned to Chile, Peru, Celembis,
Oube, Jamiee, Virgin Islands, Mexico, and all the Central Ameriean
comtries. Severel Paname merohants huve declared that they were eam-
pelled to purchase Japanese merchandise in order to compete with Japen-
ese steres.
In June, 1934,there were six Japenese stores
of eemsiderable financial backing in the City of Pnnamm, and two new
merchandise corporations nad filed papere for estebliahing stores (2)
with strong financial backing. These new enterprises were eleimed to
be opening up in "competition" to the Japanese then deing busimess.
In July, 1934, ur Military Attaebe in Costa
Riee reported: "A year ago one raroly saw a Japanese in Coste Riee;
teday every airplane coming from Pename or returming therete earries
from one to three Japs."
In l930 a trade treaty was negotiated by Paname
and Japes; sinoe thet time this treaty has beon approved end sigmed by
the President, but the present President of Pameme (Arias) refuses to
exehange ratirieations und thus nullifies the treaty.
(2) Immigretien. In 1916 there were approximately
50 Japanese in Paneme; at the present time this mu ber hae inereesed
to about 300.
The follewing extreet fram e report of the Cem-
mamding General, Panamm Canal Department, dated May 31, 1934, indieates
the nature of this growth:
Yoar
1918.
1915 - Canal Zome - 4)
Colen City
Panama City -S0).....
55
Dee. 15, 1019 - Fe. 5, 1938, Panama C1ty -14s)
Celem C1ty - 39) m0

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.88)
(Oemtmed)
May 1, 108s - Pamame 01tw. Mm - 1604)
w)
Ch11avem- 6
Celem city.
Womem - 14
Childrem - 10 )
Interier,
Men - 3 ).......
Apr11 12, 1084, Pamamm C1ty, Hem - 129*)
Hom- 36 )
Chilaren - 65 )
Colom C1ty. Mem - 39
- 12
Childrem - 17
Interior, Mem - 4 )......
• Includes 9 men in Jupauese Legation.
** Deerease of mule population due to
departure of mny fisbemen.
There is no law whieh prohibits, in mny way,
Japamese frem eatering and settling in Yanama. Law No. 31 (1917)
dess prehibit imigretiem by Chinese, Syriaas, Turks, and Afrieans of
Syriem or Turkish hereditary eenveetiems.
The Panammmiam Chiof of Lxmigreticn claims
that enly 10 Japanese entered Paname during 19s5.
(3) Prepagapéa. The prinoipel propaganda eetivi-
ties have bemn of an ecomemic nature. In uddition to this, boeks,
beth im English and Spanish have been presented, from time to time,
te high Pasammniun officials. These books are desigmed to advertise
and esqumiat Latin Ameriean people with the power and prestige of
Japan.
(4) Politieal. President Arias made the state-
memt early in Jamuary, T054, that the Japaneme eloment in Peasme would
appreve ef a mew administretion because he has declined te exehenge
metes of ratifieatien of a eampleted, approved, and simed treaty of
cemmeree nd immigratiem (giving certain immigratien privileges to the
Japanese).
Heesures were taken by the Govermment of Pasme,
La Jeauary, 1sse, to change the tariff system in order to eurb Japanese
imperte.
The Commanding General, Panema Canal Depertment,
belleves the Japenese have "kopt out or polssies ia Panema," but our
Military Attache in Coste Riee is of the epimien that "they have beem
susssseful in covering up their pelitieal activities."
(5) Eamismmse. It appeare frem a Lotter of 0-2,
Pessme Canal Departmeat, thet "there are regularly employed Japemess
ageate in Paseme. Their aetivities are direeted te keepins lafermed

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.89)
and merohaate throughout the Ropuklie ef Pasame and mith tremsiont
Papesese trevelers. They are iavolved comersially, pessibly pelisieelly,
with déseentented elessats of the oppositien parties in Paamme. There
ls me direet evidenee of plans or plots for sabotage."
Prem many other sourees, less reliable or ces-
servutive than the foregoins, there is indieated a contimmous epereticn
of ebeerving, hydrogrephie soundings and tranenissiem of infommmtien of
a military chareeter.
Reports from our Military Attaehe, Coste Riea,
are infrequent and their velue may be cntimeted fram his owm statement,
that Japanese espienage activities are little knowm to him sinee he has
mo feeilities for wnearthing such notivities and that anything be learns
is eem hand. He believes, however, that "there 1s, in Pename, 
efrieiemt morking system of Japanese eapionage with a foree adequate
to sarry out any aot of snbotuge reguired of it."
b. Coste Riee.
(1) B0epem10.
Value of Importation
Pereentage of Laerease
1963
147,069.00
93% inerease over 1952
1934 (lst quarter)
64,328.00
754
1935
(four timee above)
267,528.00
(seeret letter from M/A, Coste Riea, May 31, 1934.)
A most signifieant phase of Japanese eeenomie
pesetratiem in Coste Riee is indicated in the following statement given
te the press by the Commerotal Seeretary of the Japanese Toreign Offiee,
mhe arrived in Costa Ries on Cetober 19 on a missi on of commereial ap-
preeeh between Japan and Latin merioan countries:
"Ne are most willing to ald the contriee of
contys) amerien ia the catabliakment of their own induptriee.
La thet manner we have progressed Ln Japan. We firat learned
frem the foreigmer, m took advantage of his eapitel and of
hés experte, and after some ten er fiftesm years we were able
te ceatimme forward without foreign aid and we remained with
iadustries to give work to cur native soas. I am qure thel
Jemaese eperge to alepessd to ae thoge countplee to faepeo
  r   the de the
(M/A, Cesta Riea, Repert No. z886, Oet. 26, 19s4.)
It is reperted that a Japanese radio staties is eperatins ia Costa Ries
at she preseat time. (G-2, Panamm Casal Deps.)

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.85)
(8) J No Japasese mtatin to Ceste
e t four Japese l resel velere.
(4) Pallttanh. No resident Japamose asplematie afrs-
elale. The Japenese Cenoul Ia Faaame, whe epen't several daye La Ceote
Riee in Auguet, loss, ia seeret cenfevenee with redieal lesder ln Coste
Rieas cenevess, elaimed he breught desunee tary evidemee thet Pannme
Satended te iavede Ceste Riee. The impression preveiled that the Japen-
ese Cenenl wes cemaivins with the Coste Riean Lesder in order to mbarrass
the Daited stetes.
(5) ieme. No informtie.
Celembla streseed the faet that Japan is anxioue to establish the besis
fer eammeretal Laterehaage with Colambte. They stated that they eame to
study the esememie situatiem, agrieultural, cemmereial and banking activi-
ties, and were partieularly interested in purchasing cettem and coffee.
(0-2, Paname Camal Dept., Jan. 1. 1os4.)
Osakm Latim Ameriean Manufecturess' Experting Asse-
eiaties, handling Latin Ameriean marketing for about twesty- three lending
mamufeeturers of Osaks, Japan, hes extensively cireularised imperters is
westese Celembis, ammouse ins it iatesded to epen an efriee is Paname frem
whieh treveling representatives weuld call cn the Celembian treée. Frem
reliable seuress it has bess learmed that representatives of seme Celembian
fimme have sone to Japes to study the Japamese market and place crders,
partiealerly for textiles. Proof is lacking that they reseived paseage
em Japanese limers, but it is rumored they were iavited to travel as guests
of severel trade assoeiatiens.
Ofrieial figures are not yet available to shew
Gelembées-Japemese trede fer loss, but provisiemal figures for the first
three meathe of l934 shew a healthy trade in Japanese exports to Celembia.
(Cammeree Dept., Jume 11, 19se.)
Japan has mde offere for the entire petrelemm outpes
ef Calembia. (Amer. Cemsal, Lima, Cet. 8. loss.)
(2) hmmlazatáem. In the past, Japen ade strennees
to Gelembia in loms with the objeet of assertaiming Celembia's pessibili-
sies es e field fer future immigretien, partioularly alene the merthwest
eeast ia the viesaity of Cartagene. Calembie objeeted to Japeaese iammigre-
ttem et thet sime and mothing further wms necompliahed. Japen seat a
specdal emvey to Celembie la loze to investigate pessibilities ef epeming
a legat lem la Begote (ceasidesed the first step tomand celemimatien), bet
the envey reeeived se eaeouregement. There are estimated te be about 50
Japemese in Celembia at the present time.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.82)
HT.
(8) 
tke Theve ta evidenee (ralee Gos, Peeeme
of Golemtde.
(4) pelslanle The twe oatriee have resently i
Legatien was establisbed in Japes and Calambien Ninister reseived la
Apell, 19ss. The fellowine 1s frem the C-S, Paaase Canal Department.
agoat la Paname, Loft for Colombia em September 11, 1ose. The Japasese
Cemsal in Peaema, Takahibe Makabayashi, will leeve seem fer Celembía.
shere he will stay fer about two weeks and 'assist' in establimhing à
neuly ereated Japesese Legatien in Begeta."
(5) Lspieme. No iafommation.
sos%, aecordlng to W/A, Coste Rica, Nov. 1954.
Jamaece kxporto to Pery.
Yoaz
(frm Jan. to July)
195
1,858,000
1954
8,000,000
(Freom Japanese sourees, Cetober, 1954.)
"Important Japenese iatereste are actively engaged
La megetiatiems leekins to Japenese contrel of the Peruvian steemehip cem-
pany, the Cempania Pesease de Vaperes. It is hardly neceessary to peint
out the sigmirieanee of the negotiasiens in qusst lam for Japem, ia ease
theve sheule be aay pesaibility of a war for that ceuatry in eay quarter.
Ls a reserveir of res materlals and a merket for stesdily laereesing eom-
moses, south Ameriee and partieularly the west ceast, is a regien ef the
sreatest sigmifleenee for Japem." (Amer. Ambassader, Pera, May, lese.)
The Amerienn Ceasul in Lime reperte that be hes
16  emsellent eutherity thes the Perurian Goveramsnt has appresched the
Lasesmatsemel Petrelomm Company in an effert to have 16 surreader 1te
eptéen te parehase the crude eil belengine to the Govesmmens under the
arseegemeate for the expleitatien ef eil fields in Pere. It is mderoteed
that the Intesmet senal Petaeloum Cempeay is mot dispesed to meet the Govesm-
amtal 1ose. The motive prempting the Govermment to make ite prepeenl is
a very wrgont request en the part of the Japenese she are werking es hare

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.87)
onle to pereuede the Perevian Govesmmnt to buy all ef 1te ame
ease ef ssene, to tahe evesything Pere preduees. It is belsoved that,
La ovder to be free frem ether sourese ef supply and to prepere hereelf
fer sesà military actien as she may have to take in ssie and oleewkere,
Jepan is deing her very best to make sure of forsiliser and petreloum
sapplies on the west eeast of Beuth ameriee.
(2) Immiraties. Aecording to the W/A, Pere, ia
Jemuary, 19s1, there were about 90,000 Japanese. Other sourees sive
20,000. In a repert frem the Amerieam Comsul, Oetober 8, 1oss, the
Japanese, ia returm for cheeper priees effered fer sele of mmitieas to
Pere, requested thet Peru permit the immigration of from two to s0,000
Japemese Lamigreste within the next fow years. The immigrat iem laws
which restriet Japanese have not been repealed, but there is a seatlemen's
agreememt with the present Govermment, apperently, mot to enforee them
and Japanese keep cming Àa large mumbers. The Japanese to net have to
(Frem em observer en the greund, Mareh, 1934.)
(3) Prepagée. Considerable Japanese prepaganda is
put out. During the Manehoukee trouble, beautifully priated beeklots in
Spesisk wese prefasely distributed free. The prepegande indieated that
the Iasae eame frem the Oriest and that the people are of oriental ex-
trestiem aad kin to the Japaness.
Trade commiesions e through frequently end a
pemmament industrial exhibit of Jepanese produets is meintained.
(4) Pelitiesk. Undoubtedly the Japanese are quite
favered by the present Peravian Goverament. A certein wing is very
decidedly bent on fosterine elose relatiems with Japen to seeure assist-
anse ia ease of wer, and are thas granting many privileges. Prectieally
all Japeness business la the couatry is orgenised as a sort of ceopere-
sive ia which appereatly the Jupamese commereial attache has a defimite
part. They are gradually gaising & predemimant position in the bus iness
of tho ry.
In emeheage for guano about 80 million seles of
military equipmeat were seeured reeently frem Japan. Se meeh guase
mas sent eut shet is seriously affested demestie agriculture, and losel
srevere are cemplaining that the sovermmeat memepely is set supplying
them sugfieiest quaatities aad that whieh is supplied is tee fresh to be
of aay wse. Mash of the equipmeat of the (kardis Civil came frem Japes.
The best port in Peru, and the caly seed pert
perhape up te that peint seuth of the canal, 1s Chimbote. Backed by the
Japanese ceeperetive, the Japanese have, slowly so as not to sttraet toe
mmeh attentien, been settling around this bay, watil 1t has a very domi-
meat Japemese eeleny.
-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.87)
There La ne dertaite cerrebevat ten ef the repert
mé Tegenese esrleess are twalaine Perevien seleiere, though in a ease
(8)  No iafmation.
Caseess ia Pebereary, lose, to parebase steres of metel junk and atated
his fim was umder eentreet with the Japenese Govermmeat. This is the
fourth instenee within the past year where the Japenese Govermment hes
besm iaterested in eperetiems in Veneswela, 1.e., the investigetiem made
with a view to extending Japanese stesmship lines to Venesuelas porte:
the survey of e group of Japanese cosmereial men sponsored by the Japanese
Govermmsmt, mhieh is attempting to anter the loeal markets; and last, the
eil eperetiems. (Amer. Mimister, Caraens, Yeb. 3, 19s4.)
(2) Lmirete. There are few Japanese ia Veneswela;
estimate, 11. In Oeteber, 1951, seven Japanese arrived in La Cuaime and
teek eut fiahing lieeases. Luter, tem more arrived. They all left later
but eme mem whe tried to got a coneession frem the Goverament for a riee
plantatiem and admittance for l00 mem. President Comes wes opposed te
1t. (0.N.I. repert, Apr11, 1952.)
(8) Propa. No Laromat ios.
8.
lieved to have inereased in greater proportiem than to any of the ether
Cemtral amerieas countries. These exports have grown et an enemous
rate during the past year, accerding to the Ameriean Consul in Ban Salvador.
There are mo definite figures on Japamese trade, but
the W& reports an inerease of 461%.
Resent legialation provides for the impositiom of ome
of three kisds ef tariffs on all poods imported by El Salvador, vis.:
(a) Mlaim Tayift: Ordimary impert duties cn goods
Imperted frem those ceustries purehasins
an equel er greater value of Salmderean
(b) Iatemediate Taritfl Ordinary tarirt plus a 15%
sureharge en geods frem those countries pur-
chasing more than 25s of the value of the
seeds which they export to Xl Sulvader.
charge en soods frem those coumtries purekes-
ing Salvadesean predusts valued at less then
mo of the merehandise which they export to
x1 Salvader.
There are twe countries profoundly affeeted by the
sees oareharge prevtded under the mazinm tariff. The firet, and meet in-
to Japesese empins methels in El salvador. The seeend ene - whieh indiregtly
-8-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.81)
  salvadee Lo heeughs y the weet Indle 0s11 C0., a mube sasany of
Japanese restãe ia Xi salvedst.
(8) Prae. No epeeial prepageda ether then
.cemmde.
(4) Pala. Japene ttvitiee er - pelitea)
mature heve been mese provaleut in Xl aalvader than la the rest of
Osmtrel Ameriea.
In August, l955, Japen endeavored to megotiate
a treety of friemdehip and commeree in return fer a market fer ceffee.
This was met aeeempliaked et that time.
In May, 1984, K1 Balvader recegaised the Japanese-
spensered state of Mancheukue, muppesedly in returm for a eerfee market.
In Jume, lese, a Japenese Ceasal Gemesal wes ap-
peinted to El Selvader, with instrueticms to segotiate a comereial
tseaty whereby El Salveder cculd sell large quaatities ef eeffee to
Jupen end Maseheakrse.
while there have beem ramors of the existemee of
seevet arreagemento between Xl Sa lvador and Japen, by whieh the latter
would be eranted the assistaace of Xl Solvedor in establihing mbmarine
bases fer uee by Japas in the evest ef eperet ions against the Paaame
Camel, these is mo svidenee to support these rumers, ascerd ing to the
Amerieem Minister in Kl Salvedor, July, los4.
(5) Eminase. No.informatiom.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
January 4 1985:
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL - FOR STAFF USE ONLY.
198
894.20210/4
PAY EASTEHN AFFAIRS
JAN 7- 1935
The Honorable
Department of State
Antonio 0. Gonzales,
Amerioan Minister,
Panamá.
sir:
There is transmitted herewith a sealed envelepe
addressed by the Adjutant General's Offiee of the War
Department to the Commanding General, Panama Canal De-
partment. Please arrange for the safe delivery of
this envelope to the addressee.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Sumner Welles
Confidential File
melesure:
sealed emvelope.
CH
8197
A ua y of
LA:WEB! FES

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
LLIGENCE DIVISION
LVING
REPER TO
In Braulae
WAR DEPARTMENT
1A
WASHINGTON D. C.
December 18, 1934
1935
WE
COILNTLA
January 4 1985
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Wilon, Dion of Latin merican ffairs,
Department of State.
DAN- 135
894.20210
8
and Peru.
394.20210/5
1. The question of properly safeguarding the Panama Canal
in time of peace is a matter of considerable concern at present to
the military authorities. For this reason, Japanese activities in
the vicinity of the Canal Zone are of great interest.
2. Due to budgetary restrictions, no Military Attaches
are or can be maintained in Colombia, Venezuela or Peru; yet these
countries are so situated as to constitute potential bases, in time
of peace, for unfriendly activity.
3. as the War Department has no means of obtaining infor-
mation from these countries except through the assistance of the
State Department, there has been prepared (and attached hereto) an
outline of the kind of information desired. It would be very much
appreciated if as much of this information as can readily be obtained
from time to time were furnished the Military Intelligence Division
by the State Department. Under normal conditions reports on the sub-
jocts mentioned in the accompanying memorandum might be sent by diplo-
matic or consular personnel or other agents to the State Department;
in the case of an obvious emergency, the information might be conveyed
by the quickest means to the merican Minister, Panama, who is in
F
close liaison with the military authorities in the Canal Zone.
JAN 11935
C. Burnett,
Colonel, General Staff,
Foreign Liaison Officer.
Encl.
hbr

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
December 18, 1934
MDORANDUM Por Mr. N1lson. Division of Latin American Affeirs,
epartment of State.
Subject: Information from Colombia, Venezuela
and Peru.
1. The question of properly safeguarding the Panama Canal
in time of peace is e matter of considorable concern at present to
the military autnorities. For this reason, jupanese activities in
the vicinity of the Canal Zone are of great interest.
2. Due to budgetary restrictions, no /ilitary Attaenes
are or can be maintained in Colombia, Tenezuela or Peru; yet these
sountries are so situated as to constitute potential bases, in time
of peace, for unfriendly activity.
3. as the War Department has no means of obtaining iafor-
mation from these sountries exeept through the ssistance of the
State Department, there has been prepared (and attached hereto) an
outlime of the kind of information desired. It would be very much
appreeiated if as much of this information as can readily be obtained
from time to time were furnished the Military Intelligence Division
by the State Department. Under normal conditions reports  the mub-
jeets mentioned in the accompanying memorandum might be sent by diplo-
matie or consular personnel or other agents to the State Dopartment;
in the case of an obvious emergency, the information might be comveyed
by the quiekest meams to the merican Minister, Panama, who is in
elose liaisom with the military authorities in the Canal Zome.
C. Burnett,
Colomel, Gemeral Staff,
Foreiga Liaison Officer.
Bnel.
bbr

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
G-8
JBC/IMA
VEDENTA
INTELLIGENCE BRANCH, G-2.
December 17, 1934.
MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL BURNETT, M/A AND F/L Section:
Subject:
Expansion of Military Intelligence Act ivities
in the Vicinity of the Panama Canal.
In accordance with verbal agreement this date on the above
subject, there are listed below the general topics on which military
information is desired from Venezuela, Colombia, and Peru.
1. Political.
a. General.
(1) The susceptibility of the existing
government to foreign influences (particularly
Japanese).
(2) Laws and decrees affecting foreign
relations, with particular reference to the
political, economic and military factors.
(3) Influence of residents from foreign
countries (temporary or permanent) on internal
political affairs; particularly with reference
to Japanese nationals.
(4) Foreign influence being exerted to
effect changes in the existing government.
b. Political Issues and Problems.
(1) Political Problems end issues which
have international significance.
(2) Foreign influence on executive, legis-
lative and judicial actions proposed, pending
or consummated.
c.
Diplomatic and Consular Representatives
Accredited from the Japanese Empire.
(1) Activities and influence from the
national and local standpoints.
d. Foreign Relations.
(1) Present status and changes in prospect,
with particular reference to the Japanese Empire.
(2) Recent treaties.
-1-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Economic.
a. Foreign Trade.
(1) Development of foreign trade, with
particular reference to Japanese trade missions,
agents, volume of trade, tariff restrictions
and embargoes.
b. National Resources.
(1) Japenese interest in the production or
acquiremet of strategic raw materials, particu-
larly oil and mineral products.
(2) Japanese participation in commercial
aviation, shipping (particularly coastwiso), and
communication (especially cable end radio).
c. Financial Loans.
Foreign loens made to national or local govern-
ments, with the purpose thereof and the security
furnished.
3. Military.
a.
Influences Affecting Policy and Military
System.
(1) Jepanese interest in the development
of industrial areas.
(2) Dependence on foreign trade, particularly
Japanese.
(3) Foreign military and naval missions
(or individuals) accepted and their influences
on the combat, technical and administrative trein-
ing of the armed forces.
(4) International agroements in the event of
war.
b. Strength and Composition of Military Forces.
(1) Summation of combet power of the active
army in personnel, armament, and transport, as
indicated on the attached table.
(2) Acquisitions, changes and improvements
in equipago. Changes in the active army and navy
as influenced by budgetary variations.
-2-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
c. Distribution of Troops.
(1) Location of the principal units of the
land, air, and naval forces.
(2) Coast defense system of the country,
including a description of the location, charac-
ter, armament and construction of the several
coast defense installations.
d. Militery Budget and Expenditures.
(1) An annual report showing the approved
military budget and moneys allotted by decree
for the army, navy and aviation, each to be re-
ported separately.
e. Armament and Militery Supply.
(1) Purchases of armament and military sup-
plies from foreien countries, giving the nature
and quantities of such supplies under the several
categories reported upon.
(2) The method of payment for supplies
secured from foreign countries.
f. Foreign Liaison Agencies and Activities.
(1) Significant activities and influences
of these agencies and actuel results accomplished.
(2) Espionage and propaganda by Japanese
agents, with particular reference to interests
of the United States in the Panama Canal Zone
and areas adjacent thereto.
4. Neval Establishment.
e. Strength and Composition.
(1) A statement of the tactical organizetion,
number of ships, ship characteristics, and the
geographical distribution of same.
(2) Organization, strength and characteristics
of naval aviation.
(3) The name and location of naval bases and
repair installations.
(4) The changes and acquisitions in the naval
forces, including armament and modernization of
naval units.
FAY W. BRABSON,
Colonel, General Staff,
Chief, Intelligence Branch.
op
1 Incl.
-3-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
January 4 1985.
Im reply refer to
A AF
LA
Confidential
Deparmrot of Stave
894.2021
My dear Colonel Burnett:
With referenee to your confidential memorandm of
December 18, 1934, arrangements have been made 1nformally
by officers of your Division and this Division that
copies of all despatches received from our missions in
5
Central America and Colombia, Venezuela and Peru, having
to do direotly with any Japanese activity in those
countries, will be transmitted to your office. In
addition, it has been arranged that an officer of your
Division will risit the Department periodically to read
summarized rep  ts and to read those complete reports
whioh he may consider of interest to your Division.
It is contemplated that this arrangement will be
given trial, and that ohanges in the procedure may be made
later 1f they should appear to be desirable.
Sincerely yours,
CB
1986
JAN
Edwin C. Wilson, Chief,
Division of Latin American Affairs.
Colonel C. Burnett,
Military Intelligence Division,
y
CB
War Department.
LA-WShBTES
Jan. 4 1985

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECHIVED
JAN 7 - 1935DIVISION OF LATIN-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
w9
MEMORANDUM
PAR EASTLRN ALLAIRS
Camber 31, 1934.
JAN 8- 1935
To:
Mr. Wilsan
From:
Mr. Beaul'ac
Deparme 7 ct State
Major Coulter and Major Almond of M.I.D. called
894.20210
894.20210/6
with reference to Colonel Burnett's memorandum to you
of December 18. The procedure outlined in the attached
letter to Colonel Burnett was agreed to. I suggested
the possibility of transferring the office of the
Military Attaché in Costa Rica to Colombia, the Attaché
to be accredited also to Venezuela, Ecuador and Peru.
They said that what the War Department had in mind now
was transferring one of the Military Attachés in Habana
to Colombia.
With reference to Colonel Brabson's memorandum of
December 17, 1934, transmitted with Colonel Burnett's
memorandum, Major Coulter explained that the list of
F/FG
topics was intended to serve as an indication to us of
JAN 15 1935
what the War Department was interested in, and that they
did not expect that special reports on all the subjects
indicated would be requested of our missions.
It was arranged that Major Almond will call on me
in about two weeks and read the General Conditions Reports
from the countries in which he is interested, and such
reports listed therein as he may wish to read.
LA:WLB: FES

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGATION OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Panama, January 11, 1935
560
CTLY CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: Delivery of Sealed
Envelope.
wK
A
wem
5  1   45
B
MIcATINS
ND RDS
S
894.20210/7
r.
The Henorcble
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Departmen of State
Sir:
894.20210/4.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
the Department's Strictly Confidential Instruction
No. 198, dated January 4, 1935, which directed the
Legation to arrange the safe delivery of an enclosed
sealed envelope addressed by the Adjutant General's
Confidential File
Office of the War Department to the Commanding Gen-
eral of the Panama Canal Department.
The Department 's instruction was received today
and the sealed envelope was personally placed in the
hands of Major General H. B. Fiske by a commissioned
member of the staff of this Mission.
Respectfully yours,
UlleameBwant
FILED
F/FG
5 1935
Fr
William C. Burdett,
Charge d'Affaires a. i.
RPJ-r

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.89)
Paneme, Jamaasy 11, 1935
560
SUmJmOT: Dellvery of Sealed
LY OGNVIDENTIAL
velepe.
The Honorable
The Bearetary of State,
Washington, . C.
sir:
I have the nonor to aeknowledge the reseipt of
the Department's Strietly Confidential Instrustion
Ne. 19s, dated Jamuary 4, 1935, mhieh direeted the
Legatiem to arrange the safe delivery of an enolosed
sealed emvelepe addressed by the Adjutant General's
Offiee of the Har Department to the Commending Gem-
eral of the Pamme Camel Department.
The Departesms's instrestien was reeeived tedey
and the senled mvelepe wme persemally pleest ta the
hamde ef Majer Gemeral H. B. Fiske by a commissiened
mber of the staff of this Mission.
Respestfully yours,
Walllem C. tets,
 a. 1.
A true copy of
the signed orig

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
Pamema, Jamuary 11, 1935
LY CONFIDENTIAL
sumJmor: Dellvery of sealed
Snvelepe.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Hashington, J. C.
sir:
I have the honar to asknowledge the reseipt of
the Department's Strietly Confidemtial Instrussien
No. 196, dated Jamuary 4, 1935, mhich direeted the
Legation to arrange the safe delivery of an emelosed
sealed emvelepe addressed by the Adjutans General's
Offlee of the War Departmene to the Cemmendins Gen-
asal of the Pammme Camal Department.
The Departeens's instrestien was reseived seday
and the sealed mvelepe was persenelly plased in the
hamés ef Majer General H. B. Fiske by a eommissioned
mber of the staff of this Mission.
Respestfully yours,
malliam C. Bardess,
maé a'rtires a. 1.
Atrus conv

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
Aw
LESATION OF THE
UNITED/STATESFOB AMERICA
WE
15 1935
B%
No. 943.
Montavideo, January 25, 1935.
Subject: Japanese activities in
South America.
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
BY
LEAVING MONTEVIDEO
131935
JAN 2 6 1935
MR
894.20210/8
2
E8 -4 35
ET
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
FE81 95
Washington.
M
I have the honor to inform the' Dopartment
that I had a call yesterday from the Russian Min-
ister, who in the course of the conversation stated
that he had information from Russia to the effect
E
3
PTLED
211935
that an endeavor was being made by Japanese agents
to aoquire submarine bases in Perú, Venezuela and
Northern Brazil. The acquisition of these bases
F7FG
was furthermore connected, according to the Rus-
sian Minister, to securing supplies of fuel oil
in case of a war in which Japan would be involved.
I questioned the Russian Minister as to his
sources
1<

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
sources of information, and was unable to obtain
further explanation from him. He maintains that
the above-stated activities of the Japanese are
aimed at the Panama Canal. The Russian Minister
also stated that an order had been placed by Perú
in Japan for thirty-five warships, mostly submarines
and destroyers. He thought, although he was not
sure, that Brazil had also placed an order for
war vessels in Japan.
I inquired of the Russian Minister whether
he had information about similar attempts on the
part of Japan elsewhere in South America. He re-
plied in th negative. According to him, the re-
lations between Japan and Uruguay have been restric-
ted so far to commercial intercourse. This con-
firms reports on the situation obtained from other
sources.
Respectfully yours,
hunWom
mmars
711
Leon Dominian.
LD:W
J
3.s out
Jel-6 2.R

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.90)
FE
7ma.
TE
SECRET
(0OFY)
1935
1900-280
13.0
ON OF
BBADQUARTERS PANAMA CANAL DEPARTMENT
orfiee of the Assistant Chief of staff, -2
tche
marry Heights, Oaaalzene
January 31, 1936.
894.20210/9
Subjest: Japanese Activities.
To:
Assistant Chiof of Staff, a-2,
Har Department,
Washington, D. C.
894120210
1. The following is the substance of a report made by
one of the Muropean Ministers to Paname in May. l9se:
"Mr. Wakabayashi, the Japanese Consul, informs
me that the Yoreigm Offiee in Tokye has allotted
5,500,000 yen for use in espiomage work in Central
and South Ameriea during 1954. A Department ealled
the Culturel Offiee has been organimed in the Fer-
eign orriee te handle the work."
2. The Mimister who sent this report to his Govermment
was kmewm te be wakabayashi's mest intimate friend here.
FRED T. CROBE.
Lieutenant Colenel, General Starf Corps,
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
F/FG
TILRO
19 1935
SHOPET

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
WE
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFIOE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENOE
WASHINGTON
@0=16-D-16
18/MD18(4-8)
 ON
MAY 3 1835
LATIN AMLHICAN AFFAIRS
Confiden
OF STATE
MAY-47935
RECEIVED
DEPART MENT OF SIATE
CONFIDENTIAL
MAY 9- 1935
Livrsion of
Hao
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sorial 255
DIVISION OF
Fle
131935
MAY 11 1935
Dépertment of State
My dear Mr. Wilson:
There fe transmitted, herewith,
894.20210/10
a copy of a confidential lotter from the Commandant,
Fifteenth Naval District, Balboa, Canal Zone, dated
8 April, l935, for your information and file.
Very sincerely yours,
W. D. Puleston,
Captain, U. S. Navy,
Director of Naval Intelligence.
Mr. Rdwin C. Wilson,
Chief of the Division of Latin American Affairs,
State Department
Washington, D. C.
MAY 15 1935
FILED
Confidential
F/FG.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
(C0FT)
OFFICE OF
COMANDANT PIFTEENTH NAVAL DISTRIOT
16/0
BALBOA, CAMAL ZONE
8 Apr11, 1965
FrOm:
Commendent, Pifteemth Naval Distriet
TO:
Chief of Naval Operations
(Direeter af Naval Intelligemo∞)
Subjeet:
Intellipenee item of particular interest.
Roferemee:
CN0 1etter 0p-16-B-16/A8/ND15, 27 arch, 1935
1. There is forwarded herewith mmeh informatiom as is available
cemcernins the items requested in referemse.
2. The following informtiom has been received from a person who
desires that his identity remaim comcealed. He stated that on 24 June, l954,
the Spemish Charge' d'Affaires in Pameme reported to his goverament that in a
talk mith eme wakabeyaski (who was at that time Japanese consul in Panama), he,
Wakabayeshl, had told him that the Japemese govermment had appropriated
S,800,000 Yem fer espiomege work im Cestral and euth merica, and that this sum
was hendled in am effiee orgasized in the Ministry of rereign Affairs at Tokie,
and was ealled the Bureen of Cultural Relatioms. It is to be noted that the state-
mmat ef wakabayashi mentioned espiomege only and did not mention either cemmercial
er military propaganda.
3. Frem ebeervation et this station it is fairly evident thet the
Jepemese govermmsmt is conducting a rather extensive commercial propegande both
in Pameme and meighbering coumtries of Central and South America, particularly in
Gelembie ame Pere. Om the ether hamd there is no direet and very little indireet
crieemse to iadieate either military propegande, efforts at espiomage or sabetege.
Befesring to the last semtence of paragraph 1 of reference there has net in the
pase yeer besm any indicatien of unussal activities of enti-Ameriean or Pro-
Japamese prepeganée. Although, of course, as is well kmews, Japanese commeroial
intereste heve bescme imereesingly ective in all surrounding cowmtries.
4. Referring to paragraph two of referemee, from conversatiom with var-
ieme effiesrs of the British Neval Missiom to Celombia, 1t hes beem learmed that
this missiem has achieved a fair measure of success. Nowever interest in Colombia,
besh is effieial and civiliem eireles, is luke warm toward this mission since the
Letieie dispute is me longer active. me of the officers of this missiom stated
that the missiomwes able to earry on only by havime its senier member (a retired
British maval offieer, who has beem commissioned a Rear Admiral in the Colombian
Navy) remain continmeuely in Bogeta. This was mecessary because the Minister ef
Marime ia Celembia is mtirely imoraat at all naval affaire and dees but little
en kis eme imitiative te advanee the interests of the Navy er to safegeard the
pregrese whdek has beem mde to date by the missiom. No informatiom could be ob-
taimed as te the mothede of the missiom's fumetioning other then that it was
Confidential

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
OFVICE OF
COMIANDANT FIPTEENTH WAVAL DISTRIOT
BALBOA.GANAL ZONE
8 April, 1985
joet:
Intelligesee items of partieular interest.
treimiss Celembieme to eveatually relieve the mission, whese costract is fer feur
years. This traiming takes plece am tmo destreyers purchased in Pertugal.
5. Referring to paragraph three of refereace, there were, during the
Letieia incidemt, eppreximately twenty-five Amarican aviators employed by
Celembie; there ure mew but five, all of whom at present make their heedquarters
in Cali. It is understoed that the contracts of these various Amerieams are mot
being remewed upem expiratiom. There is imformatiom to the effect that the
Ameriesms are diesatisfied for a mumber of reasons, the primcipal ones of which
are thst due to dysemtary and other diseeses their health is uniformly suffering,
aad, in additiom, the planes furnished them bave been obsolescent and generally
mmeetisfeetory. It also appears that the Cermen aviation interests in Colombia
mieh are rather extemsive, have beem doing everything possible to undermine both
the Ameriem eviators and the Americam aviation material and that this has beem to
same degree sueeessful. This my ascoumt in part for any dissatisfection on the
pest of Celembia. Referring to the last semtenee of paragraph three of referemee,
it weald appear thet the Ammrieam aviators employed by Colombia are being dis-
sherged as soem as their contracts expire and that soom there will be none left
in the coustry.
W. S. CROSLEY
Confidential

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
May 7, 1935
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 11 1935
Department of State
My dear Captain Puleston:
Many thanks for sendi ng me with your letter
894.20210/10
of May 3 copy of a oonfidential letter from the
Commandant, Fifteenth Naval District, Balboa,
Canal Zone, dated 8 April, 1935.
Sinoerely yours,
Oaptain W. D. Puleston,
Direotor of Naval Intelligenoe,
Navy Department,
washington.
EOW/EMG LA
a trw cofpy

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.2021
SEE ....
710.94/46
FOR
desp  736
FROM .....Quat emala
D'Donoghue
August 21. 1935
) DATED
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING: Comments of Mr. Bauer Aviles on the anxiety of the United States
regarding the Japanese activities in Centrah Amertean Republics.
FLH

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.89)
2o. 786
Guatommla, Au ust 21, 1930.
Subjeet: Lditorial Coasent Re Japancse Activities.
The honorable
The ooretary of ste,
a hington
sir:
As a atter of :osni le interest, 1 ave the honor
to report that the recent newe flash, allegedly mmating
from anm through euter's as to tc rest anxlety of
the nited states with regard to Ju anese scriv1 iee in
the central American deputlics ca sed onsiderable in-
terest in cuatemala, following as it did pon the recent
visit here of the new Japanose nister. The report alse
prempted tr. Bsuer Avilés to an editorial, whloh appeared
in "huestro iario" of August 16 am nioh I am summari-
sing below.
The writer referred to t be alleged asnxiety caused
0

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
ty the faot that Japan was erxieavoring to soeure conees-
sions and facilitios of an economic and comercial nature
in certain of the Central oerioan countries, especially
in El Salvador and Coste 1ce, and the measures wich the
Canel Zone orricials were reported to be takine to streng-
then ite efeneee. He then remarked upon the fect that
there hee alwaye been mo mmoh apeculation with regard to
the riwelry between the nited tates wx apan that one
might be inelined to think that the mesent report was
not deserving of muoh attention, but that the item in
question as symptomatic for various reasons. These were
as followe: There mas evicdiently a systematic drive on
the part of Japan to enter into formal ax lestinf rela-
tions with Latin Americe especially with those countries
whieh up to now it had not cultivated any partioular
bonds. While it could be sald that Japanese activities
to date were largaly of an eeonomic neture, novertheless,
it could not be denied that the present was the time
whem the interests of the mited States in Latin America
would sufrer by competition from Japan. Further, 1t was
net without the realm of possibility that the agreements
whieh would originally be of an eeonemic nature might ee-
quire a pelitieal flever.
Touehing e mew note, tr. Bauer Avilée averred that
it was eleer thss our interest in the mubjees of cisarme-
mass had been largely inflmensex! ty the develepment of
se povee. He stated thet "the Jaited States from
being cme of the greet powere whieh was moet inserested
in sgreements for the rextstion of asmmments now appeers
as ome of the masioms tich has invested the largest

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
ms of money to incroase and renew its naval and air
power". He felt that this apparent change in policy was
very closely allied to the more recent dovelopments in
the Far astern s'tuation and the fas hure of the london
Raval iscussions.
Mr. auer avilés relt that "te wudecity or the
Japanese policy" hed been revealed in 1ts recent activi-
ties in China, justiryin he reurs wich is aotione in
Latin Ameriea may inspire. o bolioved that it would
not be surprising if the nited tates shoul sucoumb
to a ysteria similar to that which  revailed wmong the
Englimh as a ainst the ermane prior to 1914. Thie to
him justiried any an all attempts to make the anti-air-
craft cofense of the C nal  one ore efficiont especially
when one envisaged possible war with pan and the bases
of operation mhich that nation coul establiah in cen-
tral Ameriem under the cover of rishin co cessions or
other concessions of an aparently irmocent mature.
Coneluding his article, Mr. Bauer Avilés stated
that the arparent reaction of the United tates to the
Japamese activities in Central Ameries mhould provide a
reason for caution on the part of the Central meriean
nations as to the consequences of retaliations or pres-
sure being brought to bear upon them by the nited States
should they enter into any agreements with Japan.
Respeetfully yours,
(signed) Sidney L. O'Donogme
Chargé d'affaires a.1.
SHOD-P
sopy of

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
810.20/35
FOR ..Report..5190
894.20210/12
FROM
..Military...attache....
) DATED
August6.1935
TO
Argentina
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Visit of a Japanese Military Mission to South American
countries.
FLH

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ack.
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
1/16/35
A ZD: ems
ZA
In segty reter to Nu.
Op-16-B-16
48-5/EF37/ND11(11-5)
48-5/EF37/QG2-3(11-5)
18 1935
1955 NOV 19 DM 3 59
Serial No. 11679
RESTRICTED
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COMMUNICATIONS
RESTRICTED
NOV 2 0 1935
AND DS
y dear Ir. Duccan:
I take pleasure in trunsmitting,
herewith, a copy of a letter and enclosure
from the Conmandant, llth Taval istrict,
relative to Japanese fishin activitics in
Central merican waters.
894.20210/13
ith best wishes, I an
894.20210
Very sincerely yours,
.D. Fuleston
Captain, U. S.  avy
Director of aval Intellicence
NV 25 1935
Mr. Laurence Duggan
FOLED
Chief of Latin American Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
RESTRICTED
F/FG

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
OOMLANDANT'S OFTIOR
TED
ELEVENTH NAVAL DISTRICT
Som Dieso, Califarmie
5 November 1986
Refer to No.
1011/Xw
()
From:
Commaniunt.
TO:
Chief or Nevel uperetions.
(Director of Naval Int allignce)
Subjeet: Japamse fi shing activities - Central orice.
melomre: (A) Clipping from Los ngeles Japame s e1ly Nows,
Oot. 31. 1905, and an .... di spatch dat ed
Guayaquil, ov. 1, 1935.
1. In datiom to the inoration tlined in nclosre (), the
fellowing was tranelated from the Japanese languae rogarding the same
sabjoet:
(e) The trawlers carry a crew of 36 and will operate largely
in the lower part of the culf of calif ornia.
(b) The detead led plan of operati ons is as folloms:
(1) In arder not to work to the disadvuntuse of the
Japanese fishermen of outhem alifornin, the
fiah ill be sol in the form x frozen filet
to t he canneries or cirect to Japan.
(8)
That portion of the product shich is shipped to
Japam will be packed in boxes and shipped via
commercial earrier from . enzanillo (Mexieo),
Panam, or other suitable port. The principal
fish expected to be caught are the tortuava
(Mexieen milver bass), red snapper, Mexi em pom-
pame, ete. If the venture proves muccesaful, a
sscomd and a third trawler will be dispatched
for this purpose.
(5) The veesels will base at ian odro where they
will receive water, food, fel, etc.
B. The eempemy already has a similar plan in effect along the coasts
of Brasil end Aremtime, and at the present tim tmo trawlers cre profitably
ampleyed in this area.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.90)
TED
5 Nove108s
S. Mr. Fukumo aad Mr. Takabeski and their assceiates had completed their
investágetiens and developed thss plan a year or two ago and had reeedved permis-
séen to engege in orersses fiaking operations from the govermmental Departmest
af agrioulture, but had not earried out their plen amy earlier due to the ex-
pressed ob jeetion of the Japanese Navy Departse nt that "the cmploymmt of large
type fishing boats to engage in fishing operations off the oxicen Coast, in waters
adjeesnt to the mited States, would irritate the mited States". fith the reeent
turm for the better in friendly relat1ons between the nited tates and Jepam, how-
ever, the Japanese Navy decided that restraint was no longer necessary and so per-
mismion has finally been granted.
4. or partimlar interest is the fact noted in paragraph 1 above that the
plan contemplatee baming the frawlers at an edro, and that care is boing takem
not to conflict with the interests of Japanese fi shermen residine in alifornia.
 T. TARRANT
1E.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.93)
Angeles Japamese Daily Neme - 31 eteber 1955.
L mle Fla  len Neer Peme - Righte Given Nippon Firm te Fih and
Jagasts bie fer the fishery rights in the Central Amrice maters is reported to
heve beem suesessfully negotiated with te nations bordering the maters of the
rame eanel with the departure of the trawler, inato  aru, 6o4 tons, yesterday
for the coast of exieo.
The vessel is omed by the yodo Pisheries co., under tho holding con-
earm of the NMippon Samgyo Kaisha and has been newly instal led wi th a refrigerated
stemeroom cepeble af bringing the fiabes to Japan. It was announced that the
tremler will remmim abread until after uly of next yoar where it mill ongage in
the saye of the fishes in Central mer1ean and Moxican ports.
Flying the flag of aname the tuma clipper ontralia, anmed by Japaness,
is now experimenting with shipmomts of tuns from there by freighter, which permit
the Contralia to remain in tropical waters. triel shipmont of 2l tone of yellow-
fin so dimatahed, arrived here & few dsys ago on the  eCormick steamer Hollymood.
The Centralia had frozen the cateh in her quiek freezer, but in dispetch-
1ng it, engaged to∞ much refrigeration space on the steamer, making the cost um-
neeesemrlly high. acearding t: officials of the un Camp See Foad Co., which re-
esived the skipment.
Les Angeles Times - 2 November 1935.
Mtery hips Reparted een in  aneuver - Guayaquil (cuador) Nov. 1 () -
Dimpatehes from the Calapagos falands t odey s id an unidentifi ed fleet of oub-
marimes was manouverin neer n rietobal sl nd last night.
he submerines were escribed as cquipped dth lectrie projectors.
Tho dispatches seid a ship of large tonna e, ueuwnably h "mot her ship," a-
companied them.
(ther dispatches from Belboe, . ., said the submarimes were not from
the Umited  tates and hence it was presumed here that they were Japamese.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
Nowomhor 19 1935
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
In reply refer to
NUV 2 0 1935
La
Department of Stare
My dear Captain Pulestom:
I wish to thank you for transmitting the
copy of a letter and enclosure from the Commandant,
11th Maval Diatriot, dated November 5, 1935, regard-
894.20210/13
1ng Japamese fisuing sotivitics in Central merioam
waters.
Sincerely yours,
Laurence Duggan, Chief,
Division of Latin American Áffairs.
Captain W. D. Puleston,
Direotor of Naval Intelligence,
Navy Department,
Washington, D. C.
LA:LD:OMS

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20819/89
SEE
FOR
894.20210/
FROM
War Dept.
--) DATED
March 17, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese espionage activities in the area: Central Americe,
Paname, Colombia, Venezuela, Houador and Peru, with special
reference to the Panama Canal. Cooperation of the Department
of State desired with respect to collection of information on-
FRG.
L
Confidential Fil

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
NAVY DEPARTMENT
STAT
 reply refer to No.
WASHINGTON
0p-16-B1
P1-4/Qs
AM
020
CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
MAR 
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 25 1936
ME
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Department of State
I think you will be interested in the
following Notes concerning the activit ies of the
MINATO MARU, a Japanese fi shing vessel.
With best wishes, I am
Very sincerely yours,
49
894.20210/14-1/2
W. D. Puleston,
Captain, U.S. Navy,
Director of Naval Intelligence.
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief, Division of Far mstern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
1940
FILDD
CONFIDENTI
PSAB

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
NFIDENTIA
NOTES ON MINATO MARU.
The MINATO MARU, a vessel of 664 tons, lmgth 175 feet, arrived
in Balboa from Japan on 20 December last. The members of the crew, 35
in number, are reported to be of military bearing and appearance, and
above the average in intelligence. Their uniform resembles that of a
private yacht's crew. According to the ous toms boarding officer in Balboe,
the vessel is clean, trim, and as well kept as a private yacht. She
bears no resemblance to other fishing vessels seen in the locality. The
Panam agent for the vessel is under the impression that she is officered
by naval officers. Commander M. R. Pierce, U.S.N. (Ret), who is now wi th
the Pen-American Fisheries Company, saw the vessel and observed the crew
at their duties; he believes that the vessel has some official connection
with the Japamese Governmemnt.
8
The vessel is operated by the Kyodo Gyogyo Kaisha, which plans
to send three similar vessels to the Mexican coast in the near future.
The company has a cooperative agreement with the South American Marine
Products Company, which obtained the rishing concession from one Aureliano
A. Amaya, who, in turn, was granted the original rights by the Mexican
Government. There appears to be considerable opposition on the part of
the Mexican fi shermen to this invasion by the Japanese; a strong protest
has reached the Presi dent of Mexioo, who is said to be sympathetic to-
wards certain demnds the Mexican fishing interests have made for cam-
cellation of the Japanese concession.
The MINATO MARU is equipped with a freezer, and a storage
capacity of 4o0 tons. Forward of the bridge she has three automatic
electric winches for handling trawl tow lines. Her engine is a 600 H.P.
Japmese Bolinder semi-Diesel, perfectly muffled; it is said that her
exhmust cannot be heard twenty yards from the vessel. In addition to
a radio set, the vessel is eguipped mi th a haliograph, direction finder,
and one, or possibly two, electric fathomethers.
Considerable mystery mr rounds the activities of the vessel.
Apparently she has engaged in extensive surveying operations in hallow
water in the Gulf of California. A onference was scheduled to take
place between the captain of the MINato ManU and a high Naval Starf
officer, presumably Japamese, at Mazatlem during the latter half of
February. The same source reprts that the Japanese fereign office is
directing the operations of the vessel, which infcrmation is borne out
by the arrival in Mexico of two men who are reported to be representa-
tives of the fereign office; they were scheduled to contact the vessel
at Masatlem sometime early in March. In Los Angeles, on their way through,
these two men emphatieally demied amy connection with the Kyodo Gyogyo
Opmpemy and the MMMaTo MaRU. They admitted, however, that they were going
to Mexico City to orgamise a fihing school there. Just what connection
representatives of the Japanese foreign office have with the establish-
ment of a fisbing sehool in Mexic∞ City is not clear, and it is probable
that the mem are fishery experts. Abeard the MINATO MARU are supposed
to be seientists who assist in the technical work in connection with
losating and eataloguing fish; they appear to be unfamiliar with certain
seiemtiric terminology kmown to fish experts the world over, however,
and considerable suspicion, therefore, is cast upon the vessel's work.
-1-

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
24
In addition, the Military Attache in Mexico has learmed frem
good authority that there are no sad entists aboard the vessel, thus be-
lying press reports in Mexi∞ to the contrery.
Oddly enough, the Captain or someone aboard the MINATo MARU,
apparently is of greater renk than the Japanese Consul General in Mexio∞
C1 ty.
Whatever exploration work the vessel has been doing in con-
nection dth fishing, it is clearly established that she has done con-
siderable surveying already from Panama to the Gulf of California. Since
past events have disclosed probable connections between the fishing in-
terests and the narootic ring, the idea is suggested by the American Vice
Consul at Guaymas that the MINATo MARU might be engaged in illicit drug
traffic.
一 8

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION
FEB41938
LEGATIONOFTHE
THE AMERICAN 08
UNITED STATES
QEPAMMNCAF STATE
No. 166
Tegucigalpa, January 20, 1938.
Subject:
Editorial on "Japanese Espionage."
AIR MAIL
10
J
N4
11
3
Canamo
238
894.20210/15
The Honorable
F0
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
S17:
I have the honor to transmit herewith an editorial
from EL CRONISTA, Tegucigalpa, of January 19, 1938, en-
titled Japanese kspionage,* which, after discussing
FILED
Japanese aggression in China and the increasing activity
1
2
in America, quotes from DIARIO DE COSTA RICA, San JOsé, o
January 16, 1938, regarding Japanese espionage in Central
America and the activities of Takaiko Wackabayaski (or T.
Wakabagashi), said to be a delegate of the Japanese Fetera-
tion of Exporters and Importers, who travels extensively
F/FG
through Central America.
The editorial

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The editorial concludes with the warning that it would
be prudent for Honduras to be very cautious in its relations
with Japanese agents who visit the country.
Respectfully yours,
D. Erurn
Dohn
John D. Erwin.
Enclosure:
1. Clipping from EL CRONISTA.
820.02 - Japan.
BZ:LCMC

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
EL. CRONISTA
Tegucigalpa
THON
January 19, 1936.
EDITORIALES
EN ESTOS MOMENTOS
Espionaje japonés
El pequeño y formidable pals oriental que se cobija bajo la en-
seña del Sol Naciente, impulsado por sus necesidades de expansión,
por las ambiciones e intemperancias de su militarismo y por las con-
vicciones fuertemente arraigadas de que es capas de dominar al mun-
do entero, está tendiendo sus tentáculos por doquiera y pretendiendo
tomar posiciones para sus futuras campañas. Por de pronto, está
empeñado en sojuzgar a China, para tener bajo su dominio no sólo
las vastas riquezas de ese inmenso territorto, sino también a sus 450
millones de habitantes que considera habrán de cooperar con él, una
vez militarizados e identificados con sus propósitos, a la conquista
del mundo. Los sueños de Tamerlán, de Atila y de otros jefes de laa.
hordas de bárbaros que invadieron y asolaron Europa y el norte de
Africa, parece que llenan las mentes de todos los japoneses, y se pro-
ponen realizarlos a pesar de cuantos obstáculos se les presenten,
pues se consideran invencibles. tanto por su espiritu guerrero y su
preparación técnica como por la calidad y cantidad de sus elemen-
tos bélicos. Desgraciadamente para ellos, sus intenciones aviesas se
manifiestan tan a las claras y han levantado contra allos tanta in-
dignación por sus salvajes y felónicos procedimientos desarrollados
en la injustificada e indeclarada guerra a China, que todos loa paises
—aun los mismos europeos que han celebrado alianzas con ellos
están alertas y les cerrarán todos los caminos para la ejecución de
sus planes.
Arrojados del Asia los europeos e implantada en aquella región
del mundo la doctrina de «Asia para los astáticos, o mejor dicho
para el Japón, que es en la actualidad el mayor anhelo que alientan.
dirigirán sus agresiones al continente americano tan lleno de prome-
sas y. al parecer, tan fácil para la conquista. Y por eso van prepa-
rando desde ahora el camino, valiéndose de todos los medios de pe-
netración pacifica, introduciendo en los mercados todos sus articulos
baratisimos y engañosos, apoderándose de aquéllos y del ero circu-
lante. estableciendo relaciones y representaciones comerciales y, so-
bre todo. trasladando a este hemisferio centenares de milés de inmi-
grantes bien aleccionados y poseedores de un intenso patriotismo,
para que vayan estableciéndose en lugares convenlentes y creando
inedios de arraigo y hasta secretas fortalezas, según me dice, que ha-
brán de servirles a la hora de las contiendas que preparan. En Es-
tados Unidos, que es la gran nación con la cual tendrian que enfren-
tarse en primer lugar. se asegura que toda la Costa del Pacifico hasta
Alaska se halla plagada de mansos y beatifloos japoneses provistos
de rigida organización y de grandes preparativos bélicos. Y ellos, o
sus descendientes preparados en igual forma, serán las fuerzas avan-
zadas que atenten contra el enorme pals sajón en el momento que
estinmen oportuno Y lo miamo sucede en El Brasil. donde por la l1-
beralidat de leyes y gobiernos, se han radicado ya muchisimos miles
de japoneses, aparentemente agricultores e industriales, pero que en
cualquier instante pueden resultar xuerreros debidamente organizados.
Y asi. poco a poco, merced a la generosidad, a la indolencia o a
la falta de previsión de las jóvenes nacionalidades de Amárica, van
penetrando en todas éstas las legiones de amarillos niponeses. Y en-
tre esas legiones llegan técnicos militares, hombres de clencia y bien
ejercitados espias que, simulando ser humildes trabajadores se in-
troducen por doquiera y en todas partes van tomando nota de todo
cuanto pueda convenir a las futuras huestes invasoras desplegadas
por su poderoso imperio. Recientemente las autoridades norteameri-
canas descubrieron espias japoneses en Alaska. en varias partes del
litoral del Pacifico y cerca del Canal de Panamá. por lo que el go-
bierno se ha visto obligado a adoptar severas medidas y a aumentar
sus medios de vigilancia y de dofensa. Y en el «Diario de Costa Ri-
ca, del 16 de este mes, hallamos la siguiente información:
Nuevos mensajes procedentes de Washington y Nueva York vie-
nen a revelar que las autoridades norteamericanas han extremado su
vigilancia en Panama y sus aguas territoriales. para controlar todos
los posibles movimientos del espionaje internacional japonés. En los
centros diplomáticos de Washington, la versión parece tener confir-
mación oficial. y han sido advertidos particularmente los paises del
Caribe. para que puedan dar cuenta de esas actividades y se pre-
vengan de ellas
Indicase que la decisión del gobierno panameão cancelando los
contratos de la empresa de pesquería del señor Hamano, se debié a
que los agentes del servicio de inteligencia seereto norteamertcanò
pudieron coniprobar que un personaje japonés recientamente llegado
a Panama, habia sido presentado como experto en transportos, y en
realidad desconocia por entero esa materia.
En los periódicon panameos se considera, aimismo, que el sé-
nor Takaiko Wackabayaski, conocido en Costa Rica como el repre-
sentante de los exportadores e Importadores del Japán. se ha hecho
mospechomo por sus actividades Y on articulos escritos en inglés.
le sindica abiertamonte. como conoctado con esos servicios de es-
pionaje
Es necesario. puea. que en Honduras abramos bien los ojos ante
la mutil penetración japonesa y nos prevengamos de su temible s

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
tos bélicos. Desgraciadamente para ellos, sus intencies 
manifiestan tan a las claras y han-levantado contra allos tanta in-
d'gnación por sus salvajes y felónicos procedimientos desarrollados
en la injustificada e indeclarada guerra a China, que todos lom paises
-aun los mismos europeos que han celebrado aliansas con ellos
están alertas y les cerrarán todos los caminos para la ejecución de
sus planes.
Arrojados del Asia los europeos e implantade en aquella región
del mundo la doctrina de «Asta para los astátioos», o mejor dicho
para el Japón, que es en la actualidad el mayor anhelo que alientan,
dirigirán sus agresiones al continente americano tan lleno de prome-
sas y. al parecer, tan fácil para la conquista. Y por eso van prepa-
rando desde ahora el camino, valiéndose de todos los medios de pe-
netración pacifica, introduciendo en los mercados todos sus articulos
baratisimos y engañosos, apoderándose de aquéllos y del ero circu-
lante, estableciendo relaciones y representaciones comerciales y. -
bre todo, trasladando a este hemisferio centenares de milés de immi-
grantes bien aleccionados y poseedores de un intenso petriotimmo,
para que vayan estableciéndose en lugares convenlentes y creando
modios de arraigo y hasta secretas fortalesas, segán e dioe, que ha-
brán de servirles a la hora de las contiendas que preperan. En De-
tados Unidos, que es la gran nación con la cual tendrian que enfren-
tarse en primer lugar, se asegura que toda la Costa del Pacfico hasta
Alaska se halla plagada de mansos y beatifloos japoneses provistos
de rigida organización y de grandes preparativos bélicos. Y ellos, o
sus descendientes preparados en igual forma, serán las fuersas avan-
zadas que atenten contra el enorme pals sajón en el momento que
estimen oportuno. Y lo mismo sucede en En Brasil, donde por la li-
beralidad de leyes y gobiernos, se han radicado ya muchisimos miles
de japoneses, aparentemente agricultores e industriales, pero que en
cualquier instante pueden resultar guerreros debidamente organizados.
Y asi. poco a poco, merced a la generosidad, a la indolencta o a
la falta de previsión de las jóvenes nacionalidades de América, van
penetrando en todas éstas las legiones de amarillos niponeses. Y en-
tre esas legiones llegan técnicos militares, hombres de ciencia y bien
ejercitados espias que, simulando ser humildes trabajadores se in-
troducen por doquiera y en todas partes van tomando nota de todo
cuanto pueda convenir a las futuras huestes invasoras desplegadas
por su poderoso imperio. Recientemente las autoridades norteameri-
canas descubrieron espias japoneses en Alaska, en varias partes del
litoral del Pacifico y cerca del Canal de Panama. por lo que el go-
bierno se ha visto obligado a adoptar severas medidas y a aumentar
sus medios de vigilancia y de defensa. Y en el «Diario de Costa Ri-
ca, del 16 de este mes, hallamos la sigulente información:
Nuevos mensajes procedentes de Washington y Nueva York vie-
nen a revelar que las autoridades norteamericanas han extremado su
vigilancia en Panamá y sus aguas territoriales, para controlar todos
los posibles movimientos del espionaje internacional japonés. En los
centros diplomáticos de Washington, la versión parece tener confir-
mación oficial. y han sido advertidos particularmente los paisas del
Caribe. para que puedan dar cuenta de esas actividades y se pre-
vengan de ellas
Indicase que la decisión del gobierno panameño cancelando los
contratos de la empresa de pesqueria del señor Hamano, se debió a
que los agentes del servicio de inteligencia secreto norteamericano
pudieron comprobar que un personaje japonés recientamente llegado
a Panama, habia sido presentado como experto en transportes, y en
realidad desconocia por entero esa materia.
En los periódicos panameños se considera, asimismo, que el se-
nor Takaiko Wackabayaski. conocido en Costa Rica como el repre-
sentante de los exportadores e importadores del Japón, se ha hecho
sospechoso por sus actividades. Y en articulos escritos en inglés, se
le sindica abiertamente, como conectado con esos servicios de es-
pionaje
Es necesario. pues, que en Honduras abramos bien los ojos ante
la sutil penetración japonesa y nos prevengamos de u temible es-
pionaje Ya se ve como se considera en Panama al señor Wackaba-
yaski, quien el año recién pasado estuvo algún tiempo entre nosotros.
y ai bien en Costa Rica se estima que dicho señor es solamente un
nonorabl representante comercial y nosotros no tenemos motivo pa-
ra apreciarlo de distinta manera la prudencia nos aconseja ser muy
cautos en las relaciones con esos agentes que llegan a nuestras tierras.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20210
821.6363/1284
desp # 2147
SEE
FOR
Colombia
Greene
April 22, 1938
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
9
REGARDING: Impression given by President and certain Colombian officials
is that the Colombisn Government is definitely onrosed
to any Japanese encroacliment in Colombia end will take
such steps as may be necessery to avoid it.Gives information
concerning certain Japanese in Colombia and their interest
in Venezuelan petroleum.
Confidential Pile
FLH

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
Bogotá, Colombia, Apr1l 22, 1938.
No. 8147
STRICTLYT
ubjootJarenoseturest osit
i111.
Heonorable
The ooretary or tate,
into
1r:
Confidential File
I havs he honor to rerer to the Levt on's
striotly ocnri tential durpatet a. a 1s dated Jacuary
28, l9 and ravi  corres o ence c cernins
Japanese interests in mining devosite in  olonbia.
Upon an ausploious cccasion not long ago, I dis-
oussed the presenoe of Ja anese in the vioinlty of the
an Juan iver with eor ichelmen, et that time in
ehargo of the inistry or Foreign alnticns.
eflor
Wiehelsen inrormed me that both the inistry and the
President were very muon interested in all Japanese
activitles in Colombla and that any informnticn which
aould

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8 -
eoule be given them coneernins she Japanese would be of
interest to the Government. I had no further conversation
with Befier Miehelsen in this sonneetion but have today
beem iaformed by Colonel Leongómes, ehier or the
President's military housahold, that the activities of
Shire Ohmmehi and Hiroji Takahashi have been checked by
è soeret service agent or the Colombien Covernment who
bas been eharged with following Jepanese activities in
the eountry. Colonel Leongómex loaned me  copy or 
roport whioh t is agont suboittod to the    idant whloh
is enelosed herewith in trenslation.
It will be noted that the agont erorts the name of
the firm whioh these two Japaneve reprepent. The
Department will also note from the conolumions or the
agont submittin: the report that he consiners it would be
extremely dangerous for Colombia ahould the plans or the
Japanese be roalized. In t in conneotion, i may add that,
from sonvereations whien i have hnd with Colonel Leongónes
joet now, with the tresident moxe time mgo, and with
Señer Wiehelsen a few weekn ago. I bave smined the
impression that the Colombian Jovernment is derinitely
opposed to any Japanese eneromohaent in Colombia and will
sake swek steps as may be nesessary to avoid it.
I also enelose a memorandus made by tho sent eon-
eerming the Japanese colony at Corinto and a supplumentary
repert eoneerming Mr. J. T. Boyd, in whieh refsrence is
mee to a Jourmey of Japanese to Venezueln. I have been
infermed by a stoskholder or the Choeb-Paeirieo Lfining
Gompany, whieh eoneern is masurally hostile to kr. Boya's
aosivities.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.92)
一 8 -
eesivisies, that since she date of the memerandum of the
Gelembian seeret egent, one or both or the Japanese in
quession have mseompanied Mr. Boyd to the vicinity of
Bmrteeeas in Nariñio.
I am inrormed by Colonel Locngómez that upon the
receipt of this inrormmtion on April l2 the Colombian
Covermment obtained from the telegraph companies copies
of telegrams passed betw en ir. Minoda, the Chargé
d'Arraires of Japan in Colombia, and Ar. hgimi, the
Seeretary-Interpreter, the lattor hevins been in
Venesuele during February ostensibly for the purpose of
arrenging for the oponing of a Legetion in Caracas (see
Legation'n duspaton lio. zn96 datad aroh 15, l9 8). The
transletore or the Minlatry or Foreisn telations had
considerable dirrieulty with the Japanese messages as
they were in code and in Japanese. Tre roreign rriee
is apparently in possession of the Japanese code and
certain of the traneiators are familiar with the Japmnese
langunge. till, colc el  aongómes inforras me, the
messmmges were no dirrioult to transoribe thet their com-
plete sense is not apparent. Havertheless the Colombiam
Government learned fron these telegrams that e Japanese
mamed Ono Tadao was epparently at that time on route to
Yemeswele, representing the cuth Ameriean Kxport Union
of Magoye, with a view to obteinins large amounts of
pesrolom for the use or Japanese interests and possibly
fer the Japenese Oovernment. The priee of the petrolewm
was diseussed in the telegrams but apparently 1n a manner
whieh leeves in some doubt she quaatisy whien it was
eesired so obeain. Hr. Obgimi was instrueted by itr.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.91)
一 一
Mimede alse te diseuss the immediate possibilities of
cemmereial interehange between Venexuele and Japan and
to study earefully the commeroial agreenonts in foree
between the Unitsed States and other countries. It
eppeare from the telegrams thet there were a number er
telephome convermatlons tetween r. Minoda and ur.
Cheimi, almmys condueted by Ar. Xinoda from a telephome
mon ln she Legation, apparently fearing that the conver-
msions in the Logutlon mikht be overheard. the telogram
sive no indiemsion of the nature of the toleplione oon-
veremtions exeept that the omiesicn or many doteils from
the telegrams implies that the oonvereati n: were more
complote. Ur. Ongini has now returned tc Bo otd and has
informed me, an indioated in despateh No. 209e or areh
18, that he expects eventually to return to Vanezuela to
opona Leetion.
The Department may be interested in the feot that
Captain Jerome, who han Just returned from  mnamm, while
pronent at the eekly Intelligenee Co Ference or the
Military Intelligenco Jivinion held in the G-8 ection
at Quarry Heights on April 14, was shown a short momoran-
dum eontaining cartain of the date ineluded in the
memorandum transnitted herewith. The data seen by
Captain Jerome wen vupjlled to tho C-s Geetion by Colonel
Pate, the Military Attaohé to th:is Logsticn and Military
Attaehé to the Legntion at F'anamm, who bad received it
from e Heñor Kspinoma, a Colo:abian seeret agent who has
beem in Pamamm for some time. As she date or the
.omorandum

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.91)
mmsramsue cmelesed herewith is April 1l and as Colesel
Pate received his information on April 1s and es
Gelemel Leomgémes assured me that the memorandum hed
bees seem only by the agent who prepared is, the
Presieent, the Minister or Foreign Relations and myeelf,
1t 1s not known how the data reeehed Sefor Rsp1nosm as
he premmmbly had been in anamm throughout the period
of investigation.
Respeetfully yours,
inthrop . Oreene
Chargé d'arrmires ad interim
Enelosures:
1. Memorandum dated April 11, 1938 concerning
Japanese aetivities in Coloubia.
B. Uemorandum dated April 11, 1978 oonoorning
Japamese colony at Corinto.
S. Supplementery report dated April 12, 1938
eomeerning Lar. J. T. Boye.
w90/m1w

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.90)
Sure Ho. 1 to doapatoh No. 2149 of Apr11 22, 1938
from tho Legation at Bo otd.
PRAOLTICS - FULL TAT
in the purroranet of e oo ml t o rided to our
care conoerning the u anose etivities on theeifle
coast and es eoiaily to t  se whlich are sei carried cut
on the an Jun ir n th  hocd  tax
lesure i o ittin   rollovi lfortion
They reproeent t r of KY Y   L.
or Tokyo and arrived at Juenavontura on ocember 1, l937
on the ship  ty mburke at  port of
Yokoharu and thelr pasoports were viaaed by . sorda
Holdan. on the same sh un havin embarked at the sao
port, there arrived r n coeista
annd
kuarTe note tis reot sinee une  the ternan
and one or the Japanese o o to  ots l t u othur
two remained in uenaventura. Te rmans lurt the
country uhortly thereafter an as srn s  l returned
from doots they arranged a tr to lhe an Juen iver to
explore the lunds of the heirs of aaón 1 ler ba ez and
from then until t is dete he only  ont to oli cnoe, from
whonoe he brcght a Ja anese aide called 
Mr. vlllls Bylander, mmrried to one of t o holra of
Mr. Millor, has the p wer of attorney fres cortain or the
joint cwners to attempt to sell theme lands whioh have a
total area of apuroximately zoc,(o( heoteres and ropresent
somothing more then 6o or the holdinga of the propriators
among whom is oñor Juen Capello who lives in Bo otá and
with whom I nope to place myaelr in contect. r. Bylander
is attempting this negotiation cn the basis of l oomission
whioh the iller heirs will pay him and in order to obtain
this male he has ofrered it to the Chocó-iaoirico, which ls
mot interested as it olaims it lo not aurficiently rioh to
make the purohase. It was also unsuocessfully offered to
the Wagdalene Fruit Company on the basis that the region is
matisfactory for the oultivation of bananas. In an effort
to sell this property, Ar. Jossp T. Joydt (Joaeph T. oyd),
a trader in gold mines, tried to interest a Japanese Firm
In Ban Franeimeo, California, and after an orfer made by
correspondenee by ir. Bylander arranged for the two
engimeers to make e winute study of the lands. Thus the
two engineers, ecting on this information, arrived directly
at Buenaventure and plaeed thenselves under the orders of
Mr. Bylander.
LIV STIGATIONS

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
INVBSTIGATION HICH RE CARRID OUT.
In a very detailed manner they studied the mining
possibilities in gold and petrolous, the conditions of
the terrain for the oultivation of rice, cotton and
bananas, the qumlity of the lands, the wuter supply, the
intensity of the rains, and the reserven of wood. Con-
cerning the results obtained, they have now re wined
hermetioally sealed. They locked at averything, they
studied everythine, but no human intelligonoe is oepable
of morutinizing what they think.  there two.
TAxAllA HI speaks a little panich.
URVEY1NO.
The Willer lance were only surveyed under he complete
authority or Mr. Bylender. or this pur ose they have used
small canoes on the river. Until now they have explored
the rivere Muneuidó, Copornd, and now have their caup at
the confluenoe or the Cuourrupi and the an Juan. They
heve not yet begun to draw plane ant havo limited trem-
selves to making sketohes in their engineers notebooks.
Mr. Bylander hopew thnt if he comes to no business agree-
ment with the Japanese at least he will have had a proper
plan of his farm lands w ion he has ot had up to date.
ANRIAL PHUTOORA HIC TUDI.
These Japanese ur to now have neither made nor re-
cuestad a flight over thie partioular region from 3CanTA
in usnaventura. This r. ylmnder conrirmed to us.
TOCORAPHICTUATI
These begin at 85 kilometers approximately from the
Pacifie coast and cover both banks or the an Juan iver.
They hope to oomplete the stuay and the survey within
two months. Ir they rouch an agreement as to price and
earry out the negotiation it is their intention to estab-
lish a colony of approximntely 5, 000 Japanese and they
expeet to onecunter no dirrioulty with the Colombian Covern-
ment with this immigretion, onoe they are owners of the
Land. Aocording to information from Mr. Bylander, the
coneern whish they represent has the entire approval of the
Govermmont of Japan for this projeet. He says that in no
way are they dealing with spies as has been suggested in
Istmima and that they only have in xind a commeroial
propesal.
MOVDOIT OE JAYANESE THROUGL EUKNAVENTURA.
Sinee Desember 1 until the present day, no other
Japanese exeept these named above have arrived at the
pert of Buenaventere.
PRRSONALITY

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
PERSCNALITY OF BYLANDAR.
. Bylander has a pers ality highly worthy or
esteem in Buenaventure. n le the ugent or the Cood-
Paeifioo; of Roberto Mcheverry & Cia; Consul f weden
and in oharge of the Chilean c mulete. He in an
attraotive man und le a winning manner (don le enteu).
He haa an  fioe wit six or seven e  loyees and does a
good suminess.s is warried to che of the iller heirs.
Twelve years ago. ne urrived i. clo biu and msta: lished
bimself in Buenave tura. e her not or n co e into the
interlor of coloubla.  ri to  ctd, as well as that
or Boyat (Bova), accordin  r. Tohor orrizon, had to
do with the progress or te business with the Ja anese.
lomeone told us thnt durins t e uropean war he wes a sry
for his country 1n urope.
Y T.OT (. Y).
Information obtainod o co r i t a sontloman sas
that he is a poraon cf coniderable onte rise, thet he
haa no regular yosltirn une that s.r no pul notivitles
are dodlcated to inine and that  e is a inink promoter.
He orten stays in uli in e h use fuin  ópoz (a
Colombian citizen), Cr st oranama in that city. o
travels fre puontly cn the oifie coast fro Tu aco to
Panama in a omall beat called  , the proprlotor or
whioh is a wies called , usunlly accompanied
by the latter and a Hcrwegian rc ant marine cartain
call d tok   . In thie ll boat they frecuontly
ake ahort trips  tre r v. was the initiator of
the nogotiation conoerninr 1 ler lands with the
Japanene. Last aturdey ho ret rned to Buenaventura from
Tummco. He proceeded on unday by train to Call and
thenee direotly to bogotá. le is at the pre ent time
ocoupying Room 125 at the Hotel ranada.
TITLTELLLN
Theso were registered in Nóvita in the year 1853 by
Ramón Mi lor Ibaez and Francisco Cañarte. T oy aro
actually joint title holders with clores uintana, iller
and Juan Capello. The taxes are paid to late by r.
Bylander.
Cortain hoire, among others Capello, hope to obtain
82,o00,000 for th1s property, w! 1oh sum r. Bylander con-
siders Utopian, but he hopes that the property will bring
1n $400,000 at loast.
PREGENT CULTIVATION.
In very limited at present. Tie lands produce a good
mmny bananas and yuea. An effort to grow rice by  t.
Bylander proved fruitless.
CONCLUSIONS.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.84)
CONCLUOLUN...
It is not possibio ror us to ive a technical
opinion as to the angere h oh ti o oatabl ah mant of a
Japane colony i t recion f e un uen uld
ropro ent For colo ola und for mited tates interosta.
But we consider thet it woutd be oxtrenely sanper us ror
the country ir the Japanose plans wure t e carried out
and we ure of the o inion that it is  vinable to res-
triot this negotlatln us uo au onsi uie t r ush the
Ministriee or rereign elations and aric ltare, since
such a strategiccsitin l u  btediy be vory
angoroun for te future.
r11 17. 15..
v.0/51W

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.88)
losure No. 2 to despatoh No. 2147 of Apr11 22, 1930
from the Logation at Bogotá.
PRLION -FUL T
JAY
In the spart ent of Jauca. Te vi la e or corinto
is about de kilo leters Irom all. Ir  Corinto te the
colony there are ap roxinately 1 llc etors y mulo
traok.
The extent is up rex  ately at fanegudeu alsost
entirely oultivated by kidney  s. e reprietore
of this land are ao: ut tnirty fu illes, sach cne having
about 1l fanegadas. t ns  a proximate roduotion or
10. oc0 bag overy six onths 1c i sol in al1 trough
 YU T(. ).
Dedicatod entirely t gr citural labor. They go
to Corinto only ror murket day and very rarely to Cull.
Each group of six cr seven families has the cro crative
use of a treotor and othor necesaary ar oultural tools.
They are a vodel of organizatien.  eir tandard of
life ie lower than thet of our own amall faruers and they
are doing a magnirioent businous with kidney beans which
they are ellinx for ls.c pesos a sack, the produation
for which costs no more than 5.00 pesos por sack. we do
not oonmider that the presonoe of thin ngricultural colony
In Corinto presente any stratesic danger.
Apri1 11, 1938.
w30/h1w

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.88)
molosure No. 3 to despateh llo. 2147 or April 22, 1938
from the Logation at o otd.
TRALATN - FL TT
.T.Y
I have bean In coawnicati it t entleman
who, an i stated in my cariier re ort, in livint: in
Room 125 at the lotel ranada. a hae conrirmed in all
dotails my previous re orts cocerl. the  anese who
are exploring the  1 lor lande in he n Jun iver,
and comsders tt he theee Pire for wh e ure
working is ulte interested in thens lands to the nd
that they my possioly arrive at a atisractery ccnolusicn.
He states that as well un ths interout in est blishing
an asrioulturul colony in this reglen t y are studying
very carefully the poeaibilit, r rindin petrcloum. e
hae promised te inferm co or the progrese or necotiations
with the Japanese. is uddresn in Cali is . T. oyd.
Colombien  lacere ., urtado eree 49. e informe
me also that the houae whioh the ayanese represent is
very rioh ant that it has vent ulno to  enezuele two
engineors to make similar  tudie t tcs  io are
boing carried cut in c lontin, but he coul t inr rm
me exaotly where they sve beer vent.
Ar. soyd or nia company sre proprietor or a con-
cossion in tho Ouopf River but thny wi:l nrt conttane
exploring tnis ; reperty until t. o a vernment hna
caneelled peoree No. 1343 which he considere very
indurious to mining interests.
Thore is alao  onding a claim whion he is holding
axeinst she Chcoó- acirico.
r11 12,1930.
Mr. Boyd in still in posotá and must come nere fre uently
in conneotion with his olmim. He alno has acme businees
with Atonio Borda C., probably in connootion with a gold
mino.
30/h1w

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
UNDER SEFRETA THE WHITE HOUSE
Reply
7-7-37
WASHINGTON
8w/8
July 6, 1937.
DEPARTMENT OF RTATE
894.20210/16
MEMORANDUM FOR
THE UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE
Do you think we should
reply to the attached or just
file it?
2
F. D. R.
ret.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Guatemala, June 15, 1937
My dear Mr. President:
It was indeed a great pleasure to be with you on
my recent visit to Washington and I was delighted to
see you looking so well. I saw by the press reports
a few days ago, however, that you were suffering from a
bad cold. I sincerely hope that by this time you are
completely recovered.
I went to call on President Ubico this morning at
eleven o'clook and found him very cordial and friendly
in every way. The exchange of courtesies coming to an
end, the President brought up the subjeot of the pres-
ent Japanese situation and its danger to the United
States and Central Amerioa. He stated that there were
over one hundred thousand Japanese in Mexico and that
their fishing vessels were very active off the Pacifio
coast from Panama through Mexico, and that while he
feels the Japanese probably have their hands full trying
to control the affairs in China, he is of the opinion
that the situation on our Continent is oritioal and
warrants close watohing. He assured me that we could
count on the full support and cooperation of Guatemala
in the event of trouble, for whioh I thanked him.
This is the first time that President Ubioo has
discussed with me the danger of the Japanese situation
on this continent. I consider this significant since
his information is very similar to the report whioh I
gathered and gave to you last month while in Washington,
and a copy of which is herewith enolosed.
The President,
The White House,
Washington.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
In view of the importanoe of the matter,Mr. Presi-
dent, it would seem advisable for us to send someone
into this territory to investigate it thoroughly.
Should you decide to do so, I should like to recommend
our offioer in the Canal Zone, Mr. L. A. MoIntire.
You will recall that I spoke of him to you while in
Washington. He is responsible for revealing the true
mission of a group of Japanese who went to the Canal
Zone last year, ostensibly as bootblacks and barbers,
and who were in reality commissioned officers of the
Japanese Navy. Mr. MoIntire's address is - Care The
Governor, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone.
With every good wish and affectionate regards,
believe me,
Faithfully yours,
FAY ALLEN DES PORTES

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
American Legation, Guatemala.
Apr11 3, 1937.
MEMORANDUA
Subjeot: Japanese olonies in Mexioo.
From:
Minister DesPortes.
For:
The Department.
On several different occasions since my arrival in
Guatemala I have heard rumors of large colonies of Japan-
ese settling in Mexico and have been told that practically
all of these settlers were men without families and were
all suspected of being trained soldiers.
A few days ago, Mr. Vincent Astor, who is in our
Intelligence Service, informed me that he had heard
quite a good deal in regard to this same situation and
asked that I secure some reliable information regarding
the matter. Knowing that Mr. B.... had lived in Mexico
for twenty years and that he knows the country and the
people very well, I called him in to find what informa-
tion he could give me on the subjeot. He told me there
was not the least doubt that there were over l00,000
Japanese that had settled mostly in lower Californis
and on the Pacifio ooast of Mexioo within the last two
years. He stated that these Japanese settlers were sup-
posed to have settled there for agricultural purposes
and that the country they occupied was an absolute desert
and entirely unsuited for such purposes. He added that
some of them did a little fishing. Mr. S.... promised
to get me reliable confirmation of this information in
the next few days. He immediately sent an inquiry in
seoret code to a trustworthy person, Mr. Morrison, the
agent of Pan American Airways in Mexico City, who is in
charge also of the air line from Mexico City to Califor-
nia, the route being over the same territory that these
Japanese citizens are reported to have settled in. Mr.
Morrison immediately cabled to Mr. S.... in secret code
that there were between 150,000 and 200,000 Japanese,
all male, who had settled in lower California and the
Pacifio coast of Mexioo with no documents whatever.
Mr. B.... telephoned me this morning that he was sending
a radio to Mr. Morrison asking that he come dom to dis-
cuss the situation with me Thursday, April the eighth.
April 10, 1937
Mr. S.... has just shown me his Mexioan travel
papers, whioh bear a notation in red ink "SIN AUtORIZA-
CIÓN PÁRA INTERNARSE A TERRITORIO DE LA BAJA CALIFORNIA".
This statement is placed on all Mexican travel documents,
whether issued to foreigners or Mexicans. Mr. S's...
document was written on Forma 10, No. 3530, dated Mexico
City, January 38, 1937.
FAD:IP

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.90)
7.10
.President:
In reply to the inquiry contained in your memeran-
ef yesterday's date, my own opinion is that this let-
tes to you from Mr. Des Portes might well be filed and
that no reply is desirable.
894.20210/16
all of the information evailable to us here cen-
fimme the informatiem of the wer Department cemmmnieased
te you in the memorandum frem the Seeretary of war dated
saly 2, that there are not at the present sime mere them
seme twelve thousand Japamese resident in Mexico. The
Infermatien whioh this Department has, has net only besm
rejseived frem Americen sourees, but likewise frem Mesiem
semsees. If the further repert whieh the War Department
2
is preparing sbows any material inorease abeve this
, you may then wiah to take astin in order to 
 autheritative ourvey. I  afraid that if Dee
Pertes is given eny instructions frem you in reply to
The President,
894.
The wite Mouse.
LOF OD UNIT
HW
cud
Can.
Dist.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.87)
 1,
was lonk ent with unrertunate reperousstene lan mentee
w mow, because of the extreme antagenim beeeen
the present Government of Guatemale and the Government
of Mmexice, there is nothing that would please General
Ubiee more than to see us involved in some kind of a
diopute with Mexioe.
Believe me
Faithfully yours,
Sumner Welles
U.W:IJ:
A true copy of
the shaned oriai
nal.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
894.20210
NOTE
821.6363/1296
2374
SEE
FOR
894.20210/17
Colombia
Greene
Oct.6,1938
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
Japanese activities in Colombia:
REGARDING:
Report that four Japanese engineers
have made a thorough survey of
lower reaches of the River Patia and
coast in vicinity of Sanquianga.
mg
11

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.88)
Dogotá, Colombia, Cotober 6, 1938.
No. 2374
CONI
ubject: Ja unone e':vities in ic) bia.
The bie
oo etar  tate.
1r:
I have the honor to rarer to the Logatin' losputoh
No. 225 of July 8, 1938 concerning ajanese aotivities
in the epartuent of ari o and to in orn the epartment
that a roprosentative of the Chcoó-, aoirioo, vich
oporatos in that evartment, has recently returned to
Bogotd from Barbaooas and states that the four Japanose
engineera who have been uotive in thut Departwent are
ropo ted to have ado a thorough survey or to lower
roaohes of t e iver  atie and of the goast in tho viginity
of Sanqulanga (the point where the coust of Nariño swings
from northeast-southwest to east-xest).
Since the depurture of Colonel Leongomez for the
United

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.77)
- 2 -
United States and the chunge in the coretary General of
the Foreign Ofrice, 1 have had no discusslone with
Colombian orrioinls wit: rugarn to Ju, unoso act vities
in Celo bla, but ahortly. w).e a Paverepie  crtu Ity
prosent eelrcsecthe
ecrotarynerltevito
obtaininecorfr 
boenliey
and soloner Leomvone
ti
cfu y
intrren
arerrrnter
863
G/hlw
A true copy
he signed fig
nut.
hi

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
MWWicellette
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20210
SEE800.20210/218
FOR4667
FROM ...._.Uruguay.
Reed) DATED.Decembar.17. 1938.
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING: Japanese activities in Uruguay.
Memorandum prepared by hird ecretary ragonier reviewing
- during the quarter ending December 1, 1938.
mjd

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
mWuceellette
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
800.20210/221
FOR
Despatoh # 2510
894.20210/
SEE
FROM
Colombia
Greene
DATED
December 27, 1938
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING: Japanese aotivities in Colombia.
Aotivities of Japanese mining engineers, probably Shiro
6
Ohmaohi and Hiroju Takahashi, in examining mineral
possibilities in the Putumayo distriot. Minister of
National Economy informed an American business man
that all possible stumbling blooks would be plaoed in
way of Japanese seeking conoessions in Colombia.
Refusal of Exchange Control Board to grant licenses
for importation of Japanese yarns, quota for which is
exhausted.
AM
1

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
Mr. Vrincelletta
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE812.6363/5396
FORDespatoh #.7991
894.20210/
FROM
Mexioo
Daniels
) DATED Jamuary 241939
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese aotivities in Latin America.
20
Item in El Aguila report of Deoember 19th, 1938 to the
effect that a r. Namagati, a Japanese, has signed a
contract with Galino Reyes, Mexican contractor, for
the latter to drill oil wells, up to 20 per year, on
Lot 6 Concepoion, Mexico.
AM
20

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
mWiucellette
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20210/21
SEE
800.20210/247
FOR.
#838
FROM
Guatemala
DesPortes.) DATED March.9.1939
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Japanese activities in Guatemala during three months ending
February 28, 1939.
Report on -. Nothing to report as there is practically no
commerce between the two countries, and diplomatio rela-
tions are largely nonexistent, due to lack of a Japanese
colony resident within the Republic.
mjd
2

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20210
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20210
SEE
800.20210/248
FOR
#500.
FROM .._El..Salvador
(...Frazar........) DATED...)Maroh.9..1939.
TO
NAME
1-1127
/22
REGARDING: Japanese activities in El Salvador during past three months.
Little in the nature of -; Mr. Limoda, head of the Japanese
Fisheries Company, spent three days there during January,
and was followed shortly thereafter by a representative of
the ASAHI SHIMBUN, important Japanese newspaper, who spent
two days before proceeding south to other Central American
capitals. Not believed that either visit was for any offi-
cial purpose.
mjd

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
894.20210
NOTE
SEE
800.20210/254
FOR
565
894.20210/23
FROM
Uruguay
March161939
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: Japanese activities in Uruguay.
Forwards memorandum reviewing - during the quarter ending
March 1, 1939.
mjd
7

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
.20210
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20210/
862.20210/164
Canfidantial Fle
#36
SEE
FOR
24
FROM
Colombia
Braden
DATED
Mar.23,1939
7911
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese activities in the vicinity of the Panama Canal.
Conversation with the French Minister regarding -.
ml
GML

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
German and Japanese activities in and near the
American Republics: Submits copies of two
memoranda concerning -.
24
894.20210
v1
24
の
For the original paper from which reference is taken
letter
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
PS/MHM
May 3,1939
F9T}
Navy Dept. (Holmes)
Dated
862.20210/1642
File No.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
07
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
02668
NOTE
SUBJECT
Jenese ctivities in Latin America
About to receive oil concossi ns in the Isthmus.
894.20210/
de
2
5
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
memo
(Despatoh, telegram, iastructiom, letter, sto.)
From
DatedJune 13, 1939
State Dent. Am. Republies(Bursley)
To
File No.
800.20210/355
U. B. GOVENMENT PAINTING OPFICE 1-154O
2

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japanese activities in South American waters.
Copy of report from Bureau of Fisheries' Agent
in California relative to the potential danger
to tuna fleet from belligerents. Comments on
Japanese activities near Galapagos Islands. States
seisure of stores and fuel from a fishing wssel.
894/20210
FLH
/28
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Soo
letter
(Deepatok, telegram, Lnstruotiom, letter, eto.)
Dated
Deo.6.1939
From
InteriorDept
To
File No.
812.628/575
1-1840
27
