894.51 Japan, Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., March 26, 1932 - January 11, 1938 (File 995), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.51-995-2   Pages: 446   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.51-japan-financial-conditions-9/894.51%20Japan%2C%20Financial%20Conditions.%20Budget.%20Dept.%20Bond%20Issues.%20Loans.%20Public%20Securities.%20Credits.%2C%20March%2026%2C%201932%20-%20January%2011%2C%201938%20995-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
yem at one shilling and two pence in l936. Therefore,
it will besome more and more diffioult for the bank to
maintain the value of the yem at the figure above stated.
(3) The fmotors show the government's diffioulties in
regard to the valwe of the yen and the price of bonds.
Since the February 26 inoident, there has been steady
pressure on the yem and in Deoember last this pressure be-
came so great, when ooverage had to be found for unusually
large ootton purohases, that the yen deol ined. This weak-
ness together with the fear of the further pressure which
would result from large speoulative imports which were ex-
peoted in antioipation of the projeoted inoreased tariff
rates, were the causes for announeing and putt ing into
foroe on Jammary 8 the foreign exohange control regulations
(mhich are tantamoumt to an import lioensing system). It
has beem explained by the Finance Ministry that the exohange
control regulatione are admed against epeoulative imports
and will not be employed to ourtail necessary legitimate
imports of raw materials suoh as wool and ootton, and with
the further design of spreading importe over the year so
as to avoid sudden heavy pressure on the yen. However, the
imposition of the regulation showe cloarly the yen's weak-
ness and the soaroity of funds with mhioh to stabilize
foreign

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.91)
-30
fereign exehange.
(4) It is the gomeral opinion of competent obser-
vers that the finanoial situation in Japan is steadily
growing worse, being perhape less sanguine at this moment
than at any time in the recent history of Japan.
The

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
一4-
The chief reason for this is the abnormally large pro-
posed budget for 1937-38 which 1e over thirty percent
larger than the budget for the present fiscal year.
The budget with its inevitable additional burden of def-
icit structure's weakness. The Japanese nation, tarough
this budget and succeeding budgets which promise to be
even larger, will have burdens thrown upon it faster
than the inoreasing eoonomic resources can take care of
them. Observers believe tnat the Government consecuently
will not be able to cscape difficulties in maintaining
the price of Government bonds and in ustaining the yen's
value at one shilling two pense. Announcement has been
made by the Yokohama Specie Bank of its intention to
hold the yen at this value largely it is believed because
of the fear that should the yen fall to new low lovels
inoreased opposition abroad to Japanese exports will be
raised. It is believed, however, tnat Japan is in no
pressing danger of a financial collapse. There is pre-
vailing opinion that the Covernment will take further arti-
fioial measures much along the lines of the stepe which Germamy
has taken to vustain its financial structure, which measures
will be cesigned especially to maintain the value of the yen
and the price of Government bonds. It is believed that the
Governmemt

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
- 6-
ment will succeed through such artificial measures in
preventing a dangerous orimis in the near future, although
it will not be able to avoid a considerable measure of
credit inflation accompanied by a rapid price rise.
(5) I have given above a goneral diacussion of the
present financial situation in Japan. Should the Treasury
desire more specific and detailed information, an attempt
to obtain the necessary data will be ma e by the Embassy.
END MESSAGE.
GREW.
EA:LWW/DJW

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
t of State
CHARTDENT OF STATE
Washinglon,
1957 JAN 15 PM 6 02
January 15, 1957.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
This cable wes sant In confidential Code.
TOKYO (Japan).
1hould b oerofully paraphrased befere
coummunicanee o anyene. B
The Seoretary of the Treasury has requested that
I convey to you his compliments on your telegram
894.51/475
No. 5, January 13, noon; and I am glad to add my own
cmpliments.
Shele
(Rm
61/H76

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.87)
8ammary 18, 1009.
My Gear Mr. Seeretary:
I appresiete the sheughtful courtesy of your
894.51/475
lester of Jamuary 14 susgesting that I send & esble
te Jmbasseder Grew cemplimemtizs him upen his cable
No. 5 of Jassary 15; and it has given me pleasure to
 a ceble in accordance therewith.
sineerely yours,
R. Walton Moore
2
JAN 16 1937.
Deesesesy of the Treasury.
mamA.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.91)
carefully paraphra
1pm
MMUMCATIONS
YOKYO (JANAN)
.5, J ANDRLRDS
 possible,regarding any further finanoial developments
Hull
894.51/475
(H.F.)
51/475
1937 JAN 16 PM 12 42
COMMUNICATIONS
AND LOURDS
DIVISION OF
[713
FE

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
Jamuary 13, 1937.
The Acting Secretary of State presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury,
and enoloses five copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 5
of Jamuary 13, 1937, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/475
Confidential File
Emolosure:
Ac stated.
894.51/475

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.93)
七o
January 15 1937
qegy
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
7
RECEV
WASHINGTON
Division of
ATMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 14, 1937.
JAN141937
1937 JAN 16 AM 11
OFFIDE OF FOONP NVISER
Departpent of State
JAN 18
STATE
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATT
20R
COMMUNIPITIONS
JAN 14 1937
AND
My dear Judge Moore:
MR. MOORE
I would anpreciate it very much if you would
send a cable to Ambassador Grew at Tokyo, compliment-
894.51/476
ing him upon cable #5, dated January 13th.
Sincerely,
894.51
Judge R. Walton Moore,
Actin Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
FLED
F/FG

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Division of
elegram must be
Tokyo
el paraphrased
rore being communicated
Dated Januar18, 1937
anyone.)
FROM
Rec'd 10:05 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
OFFIRE OF EROMMICT NOVINER
JAN 18 1937
9, January 18, 7 p.m.
475
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department's 7, January 16, 1 p.m.
One. There have been no important financial develop-
ments during the past week. Interbank payments on the
basis of instructions received from abroad are being
894.51/477
resumed but no (repeat no) import exchange has been
settled since the enforcement of the exchange regulations
on January 8. The banks are requiring importers to pro-
duce figures of their imports of commodities in 1935 and
1936 before consideration is given their import bills.
This appears to be an effort to gain time but it may react
unfavorably against the yen when the importers having ful-
JAN 22 1937
filled the requirements present import bills in large
FILED
quantities for settlement. In the meantime the Yokohama
Specie Bank has succeeded in holding the yen to the an-
nounced rate of one shilling two pence and events indicate
that it will be able to hold the rate at this level for
some time.
F/FG
Two. The fundamental factors weakening the financial
structure, however, have not changed. Prices are con-
tinuing to rise rapidly in anticipation of credit inflation
and

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
 #9, Jan. 18, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
and of the inability of economic resources to meet the
demmds of the budget. The inordinately rapid rise in
prices is enhancing the uneasiness felt in economic circles.
It is increasingly evident that the tax inc rease plan will
be opposed in the Diet by the political parties (backed
by the financial and industrial interests) but it is not
believed that the opposition will succeed in upsetting the
tudgetary and other financial arrangements made by the
oovornment.
Three. It is rumored that Fukai conservative Governor
of the Bank of Japan will resign because of differences
of opinion with Baba Minister of Finance. It is
assumed in financial circles that the differences of
opinion are concerned with the forcing of deficit bonds on
the Bank of Japan.
(NO SIGNATURE)
WWC:CSB

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAN HECEIVED
FROM: Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo, Japan.
DATE: Jamuary 18, 1937, 7 p.m.
NO.:9
Reference 1s made so telegram No. 7 of January 16,
1 p.m., from the epartment.
During the past week there have been no important
developments in the financial field. There has been re-
sumption of interbank payments on the basis of instructions
received from abroad but since the enforoement of the ex-
change regulations on January 8 there has been no import
exchange. Hefore consideration 1s given to import bills
the banke are requiring importere to produce figures of
their 1mports of commodities 1n the years 1935 and 1936.
It appears that this is an attempt to gain time, but when
the importers having fulfilled the requiremeute present
for settlement import bills in large quantities, the re-
action ma: be unfavorable for the yen. The Yokohama Specie
Bank hae in the meantime been able to noid the yen to the
announced rate of one snilling two pence. Evente indioate
that for some time it will be able to hold the rate at this
point.
There has been no change in the fundamental faotors
weakening the financial structure. There is a continued
and rapid rise in prices in anticipation of oredit infla-
tion and because of the inability of economic resources
to meet budget demande. The uneasiness which economic
ciroles

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
一 2 -
cireles feel is enhanced by the inordinately rapid price
rise. There is incrensing evidence that in the Diet the
tax imoremse plan will be opposed by the political parties -
whioh the financial and industrial 1ntereste are backing -
but it is not believed that the budgetary "nd other finan-
cial arrangements of the Government will be upset by such
opposition.
There have been rumore that Fuka1, conservative
Governor of the Bank of Japan, will resisn because of dif-
ferenoes of opinion with the Finance Minister, aoa. In
fimanelal ciroles it is asmumed that those differences of
opinion have to do with tne Bank of Japan being foroed to
take deficit bonds.
(NOSIONATURE)
EA:LWW

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.91)
January 18, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses five copies of the following telegrams:
Paraphrase of No. 7 of January 16, 1937,
894.51/477
to the American Embassy, Tokyo.
Paraphrase of No. 9 of January 18, 1937,
from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/477
A em 
BeelOeNres:
As atated.
F/FG

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.88)
uary 19, 1987
30
fidential Code.
O FROM TREABURY.
Your . Jay 18, 7 p.m.
894.51/477
hdu.
Ituel
(H.F.)
1/477

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
, Jmuary 18.
icular reference to whether/permits/are/
edand weher exchng /is being/cleared.
Hull
(H.F)

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
McL
JAN 2 1 1937
This telegram must be
Closely paraphrased be-
Department of State
fore being-communicated
Tokyo.
to anyone (b)
FROM
Dated January 20, 1937.
Received 1.30 p.m.
2
OFFIE OF EHONNG OVNER
Washington
JAN 21 193
Hlow
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
10, January 20,6p.m.
894.51
894.51/478
Department's 10, January 19, 3 p.m.
One. The Embassy is unable to obtain any such
estimate as is desired as there is no way of ascertaining
the amount of outstanding orders for which credits had not
been opened prior to January 8 and for which therefore pay-
ment cannot be made at the moment. It is not believed how-
ever that the amount of blockaded money actually due to Am-
Bricans is large, as the Embassy is informed that American
banks and branches in the United States of Japanese banks
are continuing to negotiate bills under the credits estabz&s
lished prior to January 8. Moreover, it is not antisipted
反
open credits for orders alrcady placed as soon as the tech-
nical difficulties inherent in the new regulntions are
overcome (the Bxchange Bureau of the Finance Office is of
course swamped with detailed applications for permits).
Two: The Japan Manager of the National City
Bank, who is in close touch with tho Exchange officials
of the
F/G

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- #10, Jan. 20, 6 pom. Tokyo
of the Finance Office, has been assured by those officials
that all his applications for permits for inter bank trans-
actions have been granted; that permits for exchange to
cover logitimate import business already contracted for
will be readily granted; and that every means necessary
will be utilized to maintain the yen at one shilling two
pence.
GREW.
HPD
Estimate of amounts due Americans, at present held up.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
PARAPHRASE OP TELEGRAN REOBIVED
FROM: Ameriean Embassy, Tokyo, Japan.
DATE: Jamuary 20, 1937, 6 p.m.
0.:10
Reference 1s made to telegram No. 10 of January 19,
3 p.m., from the Department.
It is not possible for the Embasmy to get any much
eatimate of amounts due Americans at present wnich are
held up or blocked, because there is no way of ascertaining
the amount of outstunding orders for which credits had not
been opened before Jamuary B, and for which at the moment
therefore payment cannot ue made. However, it is not be-
lieved that there 1s a large amount of money blockaded which
1s actually due to Americans. The mbassy 1s informed that
American banke and Japanese branoh anke in the united
tates are continuing to negotiate bills under the oredits
established before the eighth of January. The Exchange
Bureau of the finance Office is, of course, swamped with
detailed applioations for permits, but it is not anticipated
that there will be any difficulty in getting permits to
Open oredits for orders  lready placed as soon as the
authorities have overcome the technical difficulties in-
herent in the new regulations.
The National City Bank's Japanese Manager, who 1* in
close touch with the Exchange officials of the Finance
office,

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.92)
一 8-
Offiee, has been assured by those offioials that they will
grant all his applications for permits for inter-bank
transmetioms. He was also informed that permits for exchange
to cover lagitimate import business already contracted for
will be readily granted, and that in order to keep the
yen at one shilling two pence the Japanese will use every
means necessary.
GREW.
EA:LWW

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.91)
Janmaryn21, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses five copies of each of the following tele-
894.51/478
rame:
No. 10 of January 19, 1937, to the Amer1-
can Embassy, Tokyo. (Paraphrase)
No. 10 of Jamuary 20, 1937, from the Amer1-
can mbassy, Tokyo. (Paraphrase) 894. 51/47 8
No. 24 of January 20, 1937, from the Ameri-
can Embassy, London.
841.5151/585
No. 76 of January 19, 1937, from the Ameri-
can Eabassy, Paris.
851.5151/1217
A  yd
mheleoures:
the digned ge
as ssd.
F/FG

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
Division of
TELEGRAM RECEIVE
NAN 2 5 193
Department of State
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
FROM
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 23, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 2:56 a.m.
Secretary of State
Para Uhe
OFFIDE OF EOOMONG ADVISER
Washington
JAN 23 1937
894.51
17, January 23, 2 p.m.
FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
The political crisis in Japan has had no effect as
894.51/479
yet on the exchange value of the yen, which remains steady
ad has even shown increased firmness against sterling
since the crisis developed. The control of the yen
exchange is apparently operating effectively to prevent
substantial fluctuations even during disturbed periods.
Prices of government bonds have also remained firm but in-
dustrial stock prices slumped heavily yesterday, apparently
due to a fear that collapse of the Hirota Cabinet would
FILED
lead to the formation of a new Cabinet more under military
domination and therefore more inclined to governmental
control of industry and finance than is the present
Cabinet. The stock market however was somewhat firmer
this morning
F/FG
GREW
HPD

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAPHRASK OF TELEGRAN REOEIVED
VROM: Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE: January 33, 1937, 2 p.m.
0.117
FOR THE SHORETARY OF THE TREASURY.
Reference 1s made to telegram No. 10 of January 20,
6 p.m., from the Embassy.
The exohange value of the yen has as yet not been
effested by she political orisis in Japan. The yen
remains ateady and since the c isis developed has oven
shown inereased firmness against sterling. Apparently
the control of the yen exchange is operating effeotively
to prevent substantial fluotuati ons aven curing periods
whicn are disturbed. There 1* cuntinued firmness in
prices of government bonds, but yesterday tnere was a
heavy slump in industrial stock prices, apparently due
to a fear that collapee of the Hirota Cubinot would lead
to the formation of a new Cabinet wiioh would be more
under the domination of the military, and therefore
more inclined than the present nbinet to governmental
control of finance und industry. Somewhat firmer stook
market this morning, however.
GREW.
KA:L.WW

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
Jaamry 23, 1937.
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
enoloses five copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 17
894.51/479
of January 23, 1937, from the American Embassy, Tokyo,
Japan.
betir
Ls stated.
894.51/479

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
DER
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
28 1937
anuary
January 19, 1957:
CONVERSATION:
Division 
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. Katsuo Okazaki,
REOEIVED
Chy sent to Jokyo 
Mr. Dooman.
Department of State
JAN 2 9 1937
Mr. Okazaki showed Mr. Dooman a bundle of olippings
from this morning's issues of the NEW YORK TIMES, HERALD
894.51/480
TRIBUNE, and other leading papers, of despatches under a
Washington dateline with regard to an interview given
yesterday by a "high official of the Treasury Department",
in whioh extended reference was made to the recent Japa-
nese Exchange Control Law. Mr. Okazaki said that the
894.5151
press reports had been cabled to Japan and had created
considerable uneasiness. He said that he did not know
whether the "high offioial of the Treasury Department"
referred to the Seoretary of the Treasury, but that he
FELLD
did know that the Secretary of the Treasury did give an
FEB 5
interview yesterday to press correspondents. Mr. Okazaki
said that he was not calling on instructions from his
Government, but that the representatives in New York of
the leading Japanese banks had requested the Embassy to
take such action as it could to remove the misapprehen-
sions created by the accounts of the Treasury interview.
Mr. Okasaki went on to say that the press despatohes
F/FG
give rise to the following impressions in the mind of
the average reader:
、1
1. That

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
1. That the Japanese Exchange Control
operations were being carried out with great
seorecy;
2. That Exchange Control operations created
obstacles to the conduct of business in Japan
by Americans; and
3. That Japan may devalue its currency.
With regard to the first point, Mr. Okazaki said that
the Exchange Control operations were be conducted in
accordance "with a law" which, he said, was promulgated
early this month, and that the text of the law is readily
available. He said that Mr. Ukawa, of the Japanese
Financial Attaché's office in New York, would arrive in
Washington today with the text in translation of the law.
With regard to the second point, Mr. Okazaki said
that drafts on foreign financial centers would be issued
in Japan, provided that the amounts covered bona fide
business transactions. No doubt, he added, certain
formalities would have to be observed, but it is unlikely
that the observance of these formalities would constitute
any obstacle to the transaction of business in Japan.
With regard to the third point, Mr. Okazaki said
that the suggestion that Japan would devalue its currency
is entirely without foundation. The purpose of the
Exchange Control is to stabilize Japanese currency in
terms of foreign exchange.
Mr. Okazaki said that Mr. Ukawa hoped to have an
opportunity on Thursday, January 21, to inform responsible
officers

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
officers of this Government with regard to the operation
of the recent Japanese Exchange Control measure, and that
it would be appreciated if, after the information was
made available, the Treasury would issue to the public
some statement calculated to remove the misunderstanding
on the part of the general public arising out of the
interview given to the press yesterday.
Mr. Dooman said that he would look into the matter
as soon as possible, and that he would communicate with
Mr. Okazaki on Thursday morning.
m.m.A.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONVERSATION:
January 21, 1937.
57
Mr. Ukawa,
Assistant to the Japanese
Financial Attaché,
Mr. Katsuo Okazaki,
Second Secretary,
DEP.
Japanese Embassy.
Division o
FAR EASTERN AFLATHS
JAN 2 9 1937 Mr. Vayne Taylor,
4FEB1-1937
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
Department of State
Mr. Dooman.
894.51/481
In accordance with an arrangement made over the tele-
phone yesterday, Mr. Dooman accompanied Messrs. Ukawa and
Okazaki to the Treasury Department to fulfill an engage-
ment at eleven o'clock with Mr. Wayne Taylor, Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury.
After a general exchange of amenities, Mr. Ukawa
stated that he had sought an opportunity to call on a
responsible official of the Treasury Department for the
purpose of giving such information as he had which would
with regard to Japanese exchange policy
be responsive to questions/raised in press accounts of
an interview given to press correspondents by an anonymous
in the interview were, in Mr. Ukawa's opinion, that the
recent Japanese Exchange Control measures were being
carried out with much secrecy, hindering legitimate
business, and were preparing the way for devaluation of the
F/FG
yen.
4
Beginning

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Beginning some time during the early autumn of last
year, Mr. Ukawa continued, speculative imports into Japan
began to increase and reached a point at which it became
difficult to maintain the rate at which the yen had been
stabilized, which was 1s 2d. These speculative transactions
were caused by anticipation that the present session of
the Diet would make substantial changes in the Japanese
tariff. To meet this situation and in order to assure
stabilization of the yen, the Department of Finance had
issued on January 8, 1937, an ordinance requiring the
approval of the Minister of Finance for Foreign Exchange
transactions or for issuance of letters of credit cover-
ing imports. The text of the ordinance was, of course,
made public at the time of promulgation, but Mr. Ukawa
had received a summary of the ordinance which he had had
translated and distributed recently to New York banks
engaged in foreign exchange. He then handed Mr. Taylor
and Mr. Dooman copies of the translation (copy attached).
Mr. Ukawa pointed out that the ordinance is to be effective
only until July 31, 1937, and was, therefore, only a
provisional measure.
Mr. Ukawa then referred to the impression held in
the United States that the Exchange Control measure was
being carried out in such manner as to hinder legitimate
694.116
6
trade. He explained that
the measure was a technical
one and some time would be required before it could be
made

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
made to work smoothly and satisfactorily. The information
he had indicated that the permits required were already
being granted in respect of legitimate commercial trans-
actions.
Mr. Ukawa said that there is no warrant whatever for
the suggestion that the yen is to be devaluated. The
Japanese Government is determined to maintain the exchange
value of the yen at 1s 2d, and that Mr. Ukawa was informed
that the Governor of the Bank of Japan was of the opinion
that, by resort to Exchange Control, the rate could be
maintained.
Mr. Taylor expressed very gracefully his appreciation
for the information which Mr. Ukawa had given him. He
then asked whether the Japanese Government intended to
extend the ordinance of January 8 when it expired on
July 31, 1937, or whether it would be replaced by some
other measure of control. Mr. Ukawa's reply was evasive,
it consisting of a repetition of his previous statement
that the measure is designed to stabilize the yen in
terms of foreign exchange. Mr. Okazaki then intervened and
said that there were at least three factors which made
necessary the enforcement of the present measure, first, antic-
ipated increase in expenditures for naval and military purposes,
second, an increased call on Japanese credits abroad as a
result of the conclusion of the Japanese-Australian trade
arrangement, and, three, speculative imports of merchandise
in

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
in anticipation of increases in the Japanese import tariff.
Mr. Okazaki added that there were probably other factors,
but that there was no doubt that the three factors which
he had mentioned had weakened the exchange position of
the yen, and that the measures under reference were
designed to remove the threat to the yen arising therefrom.
It was obvious, Mr. Okazaki went on to say, that the
circumstances which he had described would preclude the
making of any prediction as to the duration of measures
considered necessary to protect the yen -- that it was
possible that conditions might improve so substantially
as to warrant the lifting before July 31, 1937, of any
control, but that on the other hand if the threat to the
yen persisted the Government would probably continue
after August 1, 1937, the present ordinance, extend the
ordinance, or replace it with legislation of an even
more stringent character.
Mr. Taylor made the comment that the explanation
given by Mr. Okazaki would assist the Treasury Department
in understanding the situation in Japan. He did not, of
course, wish to make any comment with regard to the
measures taken by the Japanese Government, but 
American bankers had shown apprehension over the delay
in the completion of Japanese exchange transactions.
From his knowledge of such matters he could realize that
it would take time to put the Exchange Control into full
effect.
Mr. Ukawa

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
Mr. Ukawa observed at this point that he would
appreciate receiving Mr. Taylor's comment with regard to
the apprehension over the future of the yen expressed by
the Treasury Department in the course of the interview reported
yesterday by the press. Mr. Taylor said that it had recent-
1y become necessary for the Treasury Department to request
of Congress an extension of certain extraordinary powers
vested in the Treasury Department, and that in the course
of an executive meeting of the appropriate committee of
Congress the Treasury Department had put forward, as a
reason for the desired extension of extraordinary powers,
the likelihood of emergency situations arising unexpectedly
in various parts of the world. It so happened at that
time that the Japanese financial situation was being dis-
cussed by press despatches from Tokyo, and questions were
asked by Congressmen with regard to that situation.
Mr. Taylor assumed that there had been some leakage of
statements made at that meeting.
Mr. Taylor then said that he hoped that the contact
which had been established by Mr. Ukawa's call between
the financial authorities of the two Governments would be
maintained. The Treasury Department would be glad to
receive Mr. Ukawa at any time. Mr. Taylor said that every
consideration would be given to requests on the part of
the Japanese Government for information available to the
Treasury Department. Mr. Okazaki stated that he was very
grateful

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
grateful to Mr. Taylor for having received him and
Mr. Ukawa and for the opportunity which had been thus
afforded the Japanese Government to present information
as to its exchange and currency policies. He wondered
whether it would be possible for the Treasury Department
to issue some statement which would be calculated to
allay the apprehension arising out of the reports appear-
ing yesterday in the press. Mr. Dooman suggested that
if the Treasury Department were disposed favorably toward
the request just made by Mr. Okazaki, the announcement
to the press be made very brief but so worded as to convey
the impression to the interested public that the Japanese
Government is not withholding information as to the
operation of those measures. Mr. Taylor replied that he
would be glad to take up with the Secretary of the
Treasury the matter of the issuance of a public statement.
The conversation concluded with further expressions
of appreciation on the part of Messrs. Ukawa and Okazaki
for the courtesy shown them by Mr. Taylor.
Note: Mr. Taylor later in the morning called Mr.
Dooman on the telephone and stated that the Secretary
of the Treasury desired, for certain special reasons,
that the proposed announcement to the press be issued
by the Department of State rather than by the Treasury
Department.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.88)
-7 -
Department. Mr. Dooman replied that he would draft a
statement for release to the press and would refer the
text by telephone to Mr. Taylor.
m.m.A.
JHD/DLY
4

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
The Summary of the Ordinance
of the Depar.ment of Finance
of January 8, 1937.
The Department of Finance promulgated the Ordinance of January
8. l937 as a temporary measure to stabilize the yen by tightening
the exchange control regulations. The Ordinance was put into
effect on Janu-ry 8, 1937 and is to remain in force until July 31,
1937. The outline of the Ordinance is as follows:
1. In principle, a permit of the Minister of Finance is required
to engage in foreign exchange transactions or to obtain letters
of credit for the payment of merchandise imports.
2. The above-mentioncd merchandise imports includc thosc imported
into Kwantung Province and also into tho South Manchuria Railway
Sompeny zone.
3. Exchanro transactions to be controlled by he Ordinance in-
cludo the purcheso of foreign exchange, the salo of yon exchange
in forcign countries, romittancos to foreign countries, ordors of
paymont and tho like, as wull as tho oxucution of for ign uxchange
contracts ontored into bufore the onforcement of this Ordinance.
4. A permit of tho Ministor of Finance for foruign oxchange
transactions or tho acquisition of lottors of credit is not re-
quirod in tho following cascs:
a) in tho caso of fo:cign sxchange transactions or lotters of
crodit not oxccoding 30,000 Ycn por month;
b) in tho caso of forcign oxchango transactions arising out of
a lettor of credit for which a pormit of tho Minister of
Finance has beon obtained or a permit is not requirod under
this Ordinance. (A pormit of the Ministor of Finance is re-
uired for forcign oxchango transactions arising out of a
lottor of crodit which has boon obtainod bofore tho onforce-
mont of this Ordinanco).
c) in tho aso of forcign oxchangc transactions or th: acquisi-
tion of lcttors of crodit necossary for paymont of a docu-
montary bill of o:change rolating to merchandise which has
boon imported or has ben shipped from a foroign country
boforo tho onforcomont of this Ordinance.
d) in the caso of the oxecution of a forcign c chango contract,
which has been entored into boforo tho onforcement of this
Ordinance, for the purposc of paymont of a documont-ry bill
of oxchanto relating to merchandiso which has boen shinped
from a foroign country within one weok aftor th: onforcument
of this Ordinance.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
2.
5. A pormit of th: Ministor of financo is required to
appropriate tho proccods of oxported merchandiso, on which forcign
oxchango has not boon ongaged, for payment of morchandisc imports.
6. An importor of morchandiso is required to obtain a pormit
of the Ministor of Financo to dispose of forcign cu:rency
socuritios, foroign curroncy d oposits, foreign currency advances
or any othor foroign curroncy credits hold in a foroign country
for tho paymont of morchandis: imports or to bor. ow foroign
curroncy on tho security of such for:in curroncy as. ts for the
samo purposc.
7. A foroign oxchans bank is roquired to ascurtain that its
customer has obtained a pormit of ths Minister of Finance concerning
forsign oxchango transac ions or lottor of crodit or that a pormit
is not roquired by this Ordinance.
8. On and after January 9, 1937, a fomuign oxchange bank is re-
quired to obtain a pormit of tho Ninister of Finance to mako pay-
monts to a bank on ordors issued from abroad; except in the caso
of paymont of a check, a bill of exchango or an ordor of payment
not oxccoding 10,000 Yon for ach itom.
(Received by the Jaenese Financial Commission)

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.88)
January 21, 1957
DRAFT OF PRESS RELEASE.
Auggestion
At the instense of the Japanese Embassy at Washington
and in accordance with arrangements made with the Treasury
Department by the Department of State, Mr. H. Ukawa,
Seeretary of the Japanese Financial Commission at
New York, called this morning on an officer of the
Treasury Department and gave information in regard to
the operation of the exohange control measures put into
offeet on January 8, 1937, by the Japanese Government.
the W
h Treasy
SKH
Mr.Taylon refers hes his ame
Sils
FE1EHD/DLY

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.84)
Jamuary 28 1937
1185
 Besretary of state eneloses for the infermation
20,10,
894.51/481
af the ern with regard to nte 
tthe prese at a disesessen by a high effietal of

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVED
JAN 2 3 1937
FOR THE PRESS
JANUARY 21, 1937
At the request of the Japanese Embassy at Washington and in
accordance with arrangements made with the Treasury Department by
the Department of State, Mr. H. Ukawa, Secretary of the Japanese
NB
Financial Commission at New York, called this morning on an
officer of the Treasury Department and gave information in regard
to the operation of the cxchange control measures put into offect
on January 8, 1937, by tho Japanese Government.
894.51/
***
482
AN
FLED
22
1937
F/FG

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/688
Te1.#36-7pm.
SEE
FOR
894.51/483
FROM
Japen
Feb.2,1937
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Financial affairs in Japan:Reks that Treasury be
informed that: Reaction to new Cabinet in Japan
is generally favorable. The appointment of Yuki
as Finance Minister allays fears of economic
circles. Analysis of situation will follow.
rpg
3h

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
A
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
好
Department of State
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
FROM
before being communicated
Dated February 8, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 9:30 a.m.
Secretary of State
OFFINE OF EDONIG AV
Washington
wFEB 8 1937
894.51
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
48, February 8, 6 p.m.
894.51/484
Department's 24, February 6.
One. Exchange permits are being issued gradually to
cover contracts for business booked before the new regu-
lations came into force. Cotton importers have been
especially favored and it is reported that most of their
contracts up to April shipment from the United States have
been covered with exchange permits. Some importers
of other lines complain that they can obtain no permits for
business previously booked but it is believed that the
delay is due in part at least to the technical difficulties.
The Ministry of Finance is placing new minor restrictions
FILED
upon the granting of permits thereby causing further delay
and giving the government time slowly to bring the actual
as opposed to the nominal exchange value of the yen to one
shilling two pence.
Two. As a result of the exchange control regulations
the exchange market is much firmer than it was before
January 8.
1F
Three. As far as the Embassy can aseertain no (repeat
G
no)

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
U -2- #48, Feb: 8, 6 p.m. from- Tokyo
no) exchange permits for new business have yet been issued.
Four. Exchange contracts once permits have been issued
are being taken up normally by the banks.
Five. In connection with the exchange control the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry has announced the quan-
tities of cotton, wool, rayon, pulp and crude rubber which
may be imported in l937. It is not believed, however, that
these are strict limitations because such limitations might
restrict Japanese industry and export trade. It is more
probable that the quantities set are intended to act as a
measuring rod to determine the amount of exchange which
must be covered.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEORAM REOEIVED
FROM: American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE: February 8, l937, 6 p.m.
NO.:48
Referenoe 1s mnde to telegram Wo. 24 of Fobruary 6,
1937, from the Department.
Pormits for exchange are being issued gradually to
cover contraots for business booked before inauguration
of new regulations. Especial favor given to cotton importem.
It is reported that most of the contraots of cotton impor-
ters up to April shipment from tue United states have ex-
change permits to cover them. Complaint has been made by
some importers of other lines that they can obtain no
permits for business previously booked, but it is belleved
that technical difficulties are partly responaible for the
delay. Hew minor restrictions upon the granting of permits
are being impomed by the Hinistry of Finance. These ere
omusing further delay, and are giving the Government time
slowly to bring the actual as ppposed to the mominal
exchange value of the yen to one anilling two pence, the
announced rate.
The exchange market is much firmer than it was before
Sanuary 8, as a result of the exchange control regulations.
No exchange permits for new business have yet been
iesued, as far ae the Embassy can eecertain.
The

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
一 2-
The banks in a normal way are taking up exchange
contracte once permits bave been issued.
The Ministry of Commeroe and Industry, in conneetion
with the exchange control, has made announcement of the
quantities that may be imperted in l937 of the following
produots: cotton, wool, rayon, pulp and crude rubter.
These limitations, nowever, are not believed to be absolute,
since Japanese industry and export trade might be restrieted
thereby. The more probable reason therefor is that the
uautities set are intended to aot as a measuring rod
to determine uow muok exonange they will have to cover.
GRRW.
LA:LWW

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
February 8, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses five copies of paraphrases of each of the
following telegrams:
894.51/484
o. 24 of Pebruary 6, 1937, to the
American Embassy, Tokyo.
Mo. 48 of February 8, 1937, from the
American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/484

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
Pt
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RISEHVEASTERN AFFAIRS
February 11, 1937
-a ey  51
MMH:
DIVISION OF
SKH:
MMUNICATIONS
received in the Division last July was referred to a number
of authorities for comment. The thesis of the STATIST
article is that Japan's export boom is declining while
894.51/484
imports are increasing; the manufacture of arms is thriving,
while depression in those branches of industry which cater
to the home market is becoming more pronounced; the
uncortainties in regard to government policies are causing
894.51
a feeling of suspense in Japanese business circles. In
general, the writer of the STATIST article takes a very
11
pessimistic view of the financial and economic situation
2
in Japan.
I have made some effort to summarize the various views
expressed by commentators on this article, and to draw some
general conclusions therefrom. The common view expressed
in the reports by the Tokyo Embassy and the Department of
FILED
Commerce, and in the economic report on Japan by Sir George
Sansom, recently received in the Division, is that the
89
presence of one factor makes it impossible to make any
R
accurate prediction concerning the future course of Japa-
A
nese finance. This factor is, of course, the policy of
the military -- which is unpredictable.
From

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
2
From a purely economic and commercial standpoint all
the authorities consulted agree that Japan's situation is
not at all dangerous or even unfavorable. Japan's increas-
ing national debt is often pointed to as a danger point.
The national debt, now approximately ten billion yen, repre-
sents a per capita burden of Yen 106.75 or $31.49 (U.S. per
capita debt is approximately $275). It is the Embassy's
view that this debt is not excessive. Other authorities
agree that Japan can stand a considerably greater debt.
Dr. Baba, Finance Minister in the Hirota Cabinet, stated
that according to his calculations of the increase of
national wealth, Japan could absorb further deficit bonds
to the amount of one billion yen per annum. In this
opinion the foreign bankers concur, provided that the rate
of increase of foreign trade does not decline appreciably.
A second danger signal often pointed to by pessimistic
observers is the gradual leveling off of the rate of expan-
sion of the Japanese export trade. The Department of Com-
merce comments that the fact that exports are not leaping
forward at the same rate as in the past two years is not
necessarily a sign of disaster. In fact, it could hardly
have been expected that they should continue to maintain
such a rate of increase. Even if export returns fell short
of the records set in 1934 or 1935, profit still could be
shown. Actually, while the rate of increase of exports is
slowing down the trade is still expanding. Moreover, this
slowing down has occurred before and may be only temporary.
st111

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Still another factor regarded as ominous by observers
is the increase of imports in relation to exports. In this
connection the following quotation from Samson's report,
above mentioned, is pertinent:
"An optimistic outlook would take into considera-
tion that in relation to the total wealth of Japan
or to her national income, .... the debit balance
in international account - Yen 120,000,000 in 1934
and probably less in 1935 - is of no great magni-
tude and would be cancelled by a small increase in
export prices."
As Mr. Dooman pointed out in his memorandum of July 30, 1936,
it is easily possible to exaggerate the importance of the
effect of an unfavorable visible trade balance on national
finance, particularly in the case of a country like Japan
which has a large invisible income from its merchant marine
and from immigrant remittances.
According to some observers still another source of
danger to Japan's economy is the decreased income of the
workers and farmers. Wages are unquestionably low but as
yet there seems not to have occurred any appreciable decline
in real income. On the contrary, the activity in the export
trade, munitions manufacture, and the increase in the prices
of agricultural commodities has bettered the condition of
both factory workers and farmers in the last year or more.
The fact is that the average Japanese worker, agricultural
or industrial, is little or no worse off than he has ever
been.
The

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
The writer in the London STATIST suggests that another
danger lies in the uncertain position of the Japanese yen
and the possibility of further inflation. There is unques-
tionably danger to the finances of the country from this
source, largely as a result of military expenditures. There
has been recent evidence of difficulty in maintaining the
yen's exchange value. However, the following quotation
from a report dated July 6, 1936, from the Trade Commissioner
at Tokyo, is pertinent:
"Personally I can see no evidence of real
inflation or of serious stress to the financial or
economic structure. On the contrary, finance, trade
and industry appear to be sound and healthy at the
present time -- although the future is somewhat
clouded by the certainty of a marked increase in
government expenditures (and consequently in the
issue of deficit bonds), and by Japan's heavy
financial commitments in Manchuria!
To repeat the statement made in the first part of this
memorandum: It is impossible for anyone to predict with
accuracy the course of Japan's finance and economy without
taking into consideration political developments. If the
military continue to follow their program of activity on
the continent, of expansion at home, and of pressing toward
a totalitarian organization of the state, one may confidently
expect drastic effects on the financial and economic organiza-
tion of Japan within the next few years. If, on the other
hand, the program of military activity on the continent is
gradually decreased and if the military are unable to put
into effect at home their ideas of expansion of armament and
of

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
of reorganization of the state there would appear to be no
reason to fear serious financial or economic difficulties.
The following is quoted from Sir George Sansom's report:
"A slight turn of the wheel of fortune can easily falsify
calculations as to the future course of trade and finance,
and more than once in the past, when the situation looked
unpromising, some unforeseen development has relieved it.
It is therefore better not to prophesy, but to confine
This in a
oneself to pointing out that the present margin of safety
chronie
is rather small." Personally, I feel that in the light of
what Japan has accomplished in the past few years and in
view of the demonstrated sagacity, resourcefulness and
industry of the Japanese people, one need have no fear of a
major economic catastrophe.
2nD
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
EH
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Department of State
1937
U
1—1836
This telegram must be
FROM
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated February 19, 1937
ta anyone. (B)
Rec'd 9:25 a.m:
.Secretary of State
Qo
Washington
FEB 19 1937
2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
59, February 19, 5 p.m.
894.51
FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
894.51/485
One. The general financial outlook in Japan is much
brighter than it was a month ago due largely to public
confidence in Yuki's policies, the principal one being
that instead of imposing overly heavy burdens of governmental
spending on the inadequate economic structure it is better
first to augment the economic resources in order to care
for the increasing burdens. Consequently the budget has
been decreased somewhat which has checked the too rapid
rise in prices. It is now believed that with the as
FILED
2
sistance of Ikeda and Tsushima, Yuki will be able to slo
161
the Government deficit bonds in l937 (somewhat less
amount than the Baba estimate) without great difficulty
al though he may not be able to convert more outstanding
high interest bonds into low interest issues.
F
Two. Foreign exchange control is operating effectively
FG
and the yen is firm with the actual as well as the nominal
exchange value at one shilling two pence. Permits for
1C
exchange

=== Page 52 === (confidence 1.00)
U -2- #59, Feb. 19, 5 p.m. from Tokyo
exchange to cover import business previously booked are
being granted steadily and some new business is now being
covered. It is believed that Yuki's administration of the
exchange control will be more liberal than Baba's in order
not to interfere with Yuki's policy of fostering industry
and trade.
Three. In reply to interpellations in the Diet yes-
terday Yuki intimated that specie shipments abroad may be
made for the settlement of international trade accounts
and said that such shipments within a limited amount need
cause no uneasiness in regard to Japan's specie reserve.
Some observers consider it possible that Yuki may use a
part of the idle specie reserve which is greatly in ex-
cess of the proportion usually considered necessary to
secure the currency issue to buy up some of the 62%
Japanese dollar bonds floated in the United States.
GREW
KLP

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAPHRABE CF TELEGRAN RECEIVED
FRON:
American Embessy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
February 19, 1937, 5 p.m.
NO.8
59
Reference 1s made to telegram No. 4B of rebruary 8,
6 p.m., from the Embaemy.
POR THE EORETARY CF THE REASURY.
The Japanese financial outlook in seneral is much
orighter then it was a month ago. This is due largely to
public confidence in Yuki's policles. Yuki's principal
policy 1s that it 1e better first t mugment the economic
resourcee in order to care for increasing vurdene, rather
than impose overly heavy burdens of goverrmentai spending
on the inadeguate economic structure. The budget nas
therefore been decreesed somewhat, waich nas chocked the
too-rapid price rise. The welief is now held thet with
the aid of Ikeda and suehime, Yuki will ce aole io float
the Gover nment deficit bunds in l937 - which are somewhet
less in amount than the Babe estimate - without sreet
difficulty mithough it is pomsible thnt he may not be eble
to c nvert more outstanding b nds at digh interest rates
into iesus nt low interest.
Operation of the foreign excneuge control 1s effective.
The yen is firm with the actuel exc enge value Deing one
sbilling two pence as well s the nominal value. The
Government

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.92)
一2-
Government is steadily granting permits for exchange to
cover import business previously booked, and a me new
businees is being covered now also. The belief is neld that
the administration of the exchange control by Yuk1 will be
more liberal taan that of mabe in order that Yuki's policy
of fostering industry and trade will not be interfered with.
Yuki intimated yesterday, in reply to interpellations
in the Diet, that specie shipments abroad may be mede in
order to settle internationel trade eccounts. He eaid that
no uneasiness regardin Japan's specie reserve need be
felt pecause of ruch limited snipments. The possibility
wes put forward by s me ooservers tnat Yuki may use a part
f the idle "pecie reserve wrich is reatly in excese of
the proportion usually considered neoossery to secure the
currency 1ssue to ouy up some of the bunds floated in the
United states - 6 1/2 ercent Japanese dullar bonds.
GREA.
:LWW

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
EA
F6
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
TOKYO
This messagE must bE closEly
paraphrased beforE beihg com-
Dated FEb. 27, 1937
municated to anyonE. (B)
FROM
Rec'd. 9:20am.
SecrEtary of State
OFFICE OF EOKIONG ADVISER
37
Washington, D.C.
FEB 27 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEbruary 27, 6pm.
Division of
OnE. The JapanesE press recently has given publicity
to a rEport thet thE Government intended to ship gold from the
894.51/486
spEciE rEsErvE to thE United States in Early March to thE value
of 10 mill on yen and throughout thE yecr intended to ship
nEwly mined gold purchased by thE GovErnment Either to London
or New York, total shipments during the year probably amounting
to 130 million yen at the yens present ExchangE value.
Two. Tsushima tlr's morning inforned thE Commercial
Attache of t E Eibassy that the above report is a nEwspaper
fabricction and that thE GovErnment has as yEt no definitE
plans as to tines, destinati ons or amo nts of shipments of
gold. WE Enphas zed thE point thet the shi pmento when and if
made need causE no unecsiness as to Japan's speciE reserves
FILED
5
Which is EncEngivE at presEnt. ME indicated the Eventual.
19
intention of the JaponEsE Government to ship gold to the
3
1F
United States by asking thE Comnercial AttachE if hE thought
G
that such shipments would interfere with the Treasitry's policy
of discourag ng too heavy an influx of gold. The Commercial
Attache

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
64, FEb. 27, 6pm. from Tokyo
-2-
Attache rEpliEd that hE did not believE tmt small shipments
would cause trouble.
ThreE. The Embassy assumes that the Secretary of the
Treasury continues to desirE telEgraphic reports at intervals
on important fiscal dEvelopments in Japan. If not, pleasE
instruct.
GREV
KLP

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAPHHASE OP THLEORAM RECEIVED
FROMI
American Imbassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATEI
7obruary 27, 1937, 6 p.m.
NO.:
Heference 1s made to telegram No. 59 of February 19,
5 p.m., paragraph three, from the Tmbaesy.
FOR THK SBORETARY OF THE TREASURY.
Firet. A report was recently published in the
Japanese prese that the Covernment intended to ship sold
from the speeie reserve to the United tates in sarly
March to the value of l0 million yen. It was stated that
throughout the yoar it intended s: shi, newly mined gold
puronaeed by the Governmont either to London or New York.
It was eatimated that the t tal shipmente during the year
would probably amcunt to 130 million yen at the present
exchange value of the yen.
Second. The Cowmercial Attaché of the mbassy wue
informed thie morning by Tsuehima that the above report
is a newspaper fabrication. Tsushima seid that the Cov-
ernment as yet has made no definite plans as to the times,
deatinetions or amounte of uny sh1 mente of gold they
may make. He particularly wanted it to be kn wn that the
not
shipments when and if made need/be a cause for unensiness
"s to the specie reserve of Japan, ns at present this
indicated
reserve is exoessive. Eventually, he/sass, Japan does
intend to ship gold to the United States, beoause he
asked the Commercial Attache if ne thought shiob gold ship-

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
一 a -
ments would interfere with the policy of the Tressury of
disoouraging heavy influx of gold into the United States.
The reply of the Commorcial Attache was that he did not
think there would be any trouble from mmall enipmonts.
Third. We aasume that Seeretary Worgenthau wants us
to continue telographio reports at intervals on important
fisoal developmente in Japan; please inatruct if this
assumption is not correot.
ORW。
A:LWW

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
HER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
DepartmentofState
PARTAIR
ARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
Washington,
was sent in condetial Cde.
1937 MAR 2 PM 5 37
reiuliy paraonrasso belure
March 2, 1937.
extee iv anyena. B-1
7 pr
DIVISION OF
COMVUNICATIONS
ANEMBASSY
ES
TOKYO (JAPAN)
38
Treasury finds your reports Interesting and valuable
and desires their continuance.
894.51/486
Hull
894.51/486
5i1 mmt.
EA:FL:LWW
a
Enciphared by
Send by operator
M.,
19.
F
G
D.C.X-No. 00
1-1402

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
TOKYO
This mEssage must bE closEly
Dated FE. 27, 1937
paraphrasEd beforE bEihg con-
municated to anyone. (B)
Rec'd. 9:20am.
Secretary of State
Div
Washxngton, D.C.
64, FEbruary 27, Gpm.
FOR UTE SEOTETLRY CF TE TREAS TRY.
ChE. TE JapanesE press rEcently has siven publicity
to a rEport that thE Government intended to ship gold from the
speciE rEpErvE to the nited tates in Early March to the value
of 10 mill: on yEn and throughout thE yecr intended to ship
nEvly mined gold purchased by thE GovErnment Either to London
or New Tork, total shipments during the year probably amounting
to 130 million yen at the yens present ExchangE value.
Tvo. Tsuslime tlrs morning informed the Commercial
Attache of t E Eubassy that the above report is a newspaper
fabricat on and that thE Government has as yEt no dEfinite
plans cs to tames, destinate ons or amo nts of shipments of
gold. E Enhee sed the pont that the sm pmento vhen and if
made need ccusE no unecsinels as to Japan's opeclE reserve
ch is EncengivE at presEnt. E indicated the Eventual
intention of thE JapenEsE Government to ship gold to the
Unted States by asking the Commercial Attache if hE thought
that such shipments would interfere with the Treasury's policy
of discourey ng too hEavy an influx of gold. The Commercial
Attache

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
mm
64, FEb. 27, 6pm from Tokyo
-2-
AttachE rEpl: Ed that hE did not beliEvE that small shipments
would cause trouble.
ThreE. The Embassy assumes that the SEecrEtary of thE
Treasury continues to desirE telEgraphic rEports at intervals
on important fiscal dEvelopments in Japan. If not, plEasE
instruct.
GRE
KLP

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
Lilg
3.3.37
TELEGRAM RECEET
OFFIRE OF ÉDONOMIC ADVISER
McL
MAR 3 1937
This tele ram must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
fore being communicated
FROM
Tokyo.
to anyonE (b)
Dated Harch 3, 1937.
ReceivEd 7.54 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Divicion of
Washington.
MAR 4 - 1937
Department of State
894.51
67, March 3. 6 .m.
894.51/487
486
Embassy's 64, February 27,
6 p.m, for the
Secretary of thE Treasury.
Tsushima informed thE Commercial AttachE this
morning that thE Government intends (subject to final
decigion vithin onE or two days) to ship thirteen thousand
ninE hundred kilograms of gold worth about yen fifty mil-
lion at thE prEsent ExchangE valuE of thE yen to the Tni-
tEd StatEs by thE SS ASAIIA MRU lEaving KobE March 9 and
arriving Sen Francisco March 24. The gold will bE taken
FILED
from thE spEciE rEsErvE of thE Sank of Japan and consist's
of local purchases madE by thE Government threE years ag
169
after thE promulgation of thE Gold PurchasE Act. DomEi
reports that thE procEeds of thE salE of thE gold will bE
credited to thE NEw York OfficE of thE Yokohama SpEciE
Bank presunably to support the ExchangE valuE of the yen.
GRE.
DRM
F/FC
VC
G

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.93)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEORAK RECEIVED
FROM:
Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo, Jupan
DATE:
Maron 3, 1937, 6 p.m.
NO.:
87
Heference 1e made to telegram No. 64 f Feb-
ruary 27, 6 p.m., for the Beoretary of the freasury from
the Embasey.
This morning the ommercial Attache f the Embaesy
was informed by Teuenima taat the Government intende
to sn1p 13,900 k1lograme of gold worth sbout yen 50,000,000
at the preeent excnange value of the yen, to the United
tatee by the ss. AsaMA MuRu. Thie mmatmionxinxxx 1-
tention is aubjeot to finel decision within one or two
days. The S.S. ASAMA MUHU leaves Kobe on the ninth of
Maron, and is soheduled to mrrive in San Francisco on the
twenty-fourth f Maron. The specte reserve of the hank
of ppan will e drawn on for tue eolc. The gold consists
of local puronases mede by he Government three years ago
after the O ld rurohase Act was promulonted. It is re-
ported by Domei that the proceede of the gold sale will
De credited to the Rew Y rk Office of the Yokohama Specie
Bank, presumably for the purpose of supporting the yen's
exonange value.
GREW.
EA:LWW

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
Maroh 3, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses five copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 67
894.51/487
of March 3, 1937, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/487
lw

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./110
Desp.#2257
SEE
FOR
894.51/
Japen
Grew
Feb.15,1937
FROM
.) DATED
11t0/11
NAME
1-1127
OPO
488
REGARDING:
Financial situation in Japan:Reports regarding -,
and the financial policy of the new Cabinet.
fpg
f
8

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
The financial situation in Japan during January was
less favorable than it had been for a number of years.*
However, conditions have not as yet become serious and the
51
prevailing opinion seemed to be that the Government would
8
be able to avoid a dangerous crisis for some months and
perhaps through the year 1937.**
There were the following
favorable factors: the national debt, although on the rise,
did not appear to be excessive fornation of the size and
a
power of Japan; money rates were easy; there was little
or no currency inflation; and the unfavorable visible
foreign trade balance for l936 was partly offset by a
favorable invisible trade balance.
On the other hand, there were unfavorable factors,
principally the unbalanced budget and the consequent large
issues of "deficit bonds" necessary in 1937. The weakness..
of the yen and apprehension of the further pressure which
would result from large speculative imports expected in
anticipation of the proposed increased tariff rates were
the causes of the foreign exchange control regulations
announced by the Government and put into force on January 8.
The adverse factors in Japan's financial position were due
in great measure to the unusually heavy governmental ex-
penditures, principally military.
Strong
*
Embassy's telegram No. 5 of January 13, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2209 of January 1, 1937.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
Strong opposition to the Cabinet's financial policy,
principally to the proposed tax reform, continued to be
expressed. In fact, the widespread dissatisfaction over
the Government's financial policy formed an important part
of the strong opposition to the Government which brought
about the Hirota Cabinet's downfall toward the close of the
month.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan in January amounted to ¥200,304,000
and imports into this country were ¥304,126,000, as compared
with December exports of ¥296,817,000 and imports of ¥284,
515,O00. This represented an unfavorable balance of trade
of ¥l03,822,000, as compared with an unfavorable balance for
December of only ¥12,302,000.
(b). Financial Trends.
The outstanding feature of the month was the sharp rise
in commodity prices, the Bank of Japan's wholesale price
index number for January being 233.3 as against 214.9 for
December 1936. .Bond and stock prices appreciated. In the
latter part of the month the activity of the stock market
decreased owing to the Cabinet crisis. The average yen rate
of the Yokohama Specie Bank was $0.28625 as compared with
$0.28552 for December. It should be noted that the main-
tenance of the yen at a slightly higher level during January
was due to the fact that the exchange was artifioially
bolstered by the Yokohama Specie Bank and that strict
exchange control was enforced.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.94)
EH
7574
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
eopyLaaphal
JR
This telegram must be
Tokyo
FROM
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated April 26,
1937
to anyone. (B)
Lie
Cheo
Secretary of State,
5Para
FOFFICE OF ECOMONNC ADVISER
37
Washington.
APR 17 1937
4.20-
57/
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
114. April 20, 4 p.m.
894.51
AC/C
FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
RECORDING DESK
894.51/489
confidentially by Tsu Shima, Vice Governor of the Bank of
Japan, that the Japanese Government has uccided to resume
shipments of gold to the United States and that 15,000
kilograms will be shipped in the near fuiure. The first
shipment amcunting to 4,500 kilograms will leave Kobe on
April 2l and the second and third shipments will leave
Japan at the end of this month or early next month. Inform
Commerce.
R 193
AHHD
GRE
RR:C

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
Apr11 20, 1037.
The Seoretary of state presents his compliments
to the Homorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
enoloses five copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 114
894.51/489
of April a0, 1937, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894,51/489

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIYT
WPR 23 1937
JR
GRAY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1-1836
FROM
Tokyo
Dated April 21, 1937
DIVISION OF WESTERN
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
APR 24 1937
Division
Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENTIA
AAPR 2 1 1937
Washington.
Departmenio of State
116. Apri1 21, 6 p.m.
894.51/490
894.51
nit
Yesterday, Finance Minister, Yuki delivered to a
bankers convention a spirited address urging fuller
cooperation with Government planning. He stated that he
favors additional legal restrictio
f importation of
certain unnamed commodities outside the essential raw
materials class; that bank investing should accord with
Government plans; that the bankers should consider the
WeB
in China
10/20137
importance of investing immediately; and that Manchuria
is increasingly dependent on Japanese financing. He
R197
asserted that, to cooperate with foreign countries and to
come to a more complete understanding in harmony with
Japan's financial and economic policy, Japan should
participate in any international conference which may be
held.
GREW
WWC:RR
π
G

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
April 26 1957
B
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAPR 2 6 1937
Department of State
My soar . Presiéemt:
Aprepes the developmemt of the Japaaese expansienist
program 1n l934, the Departmemt made a study of the esememis
and finaneial positiom of Japan with a view to seeing
whether limitatiens in this sphere might necessarily some-
894.
what affest Japasese politieal peliey. At the sime you
were Laterested is thet smalysis.
5
wita a view tevards re-appreising the same matter at
1/490A
the presems sime, the study has beem remewed and revised.
Bessnse of its impertaase and your iaterest in it, I am
twamsmitting herewità a copy of the summary and coneluslems
that arlse fzem the study. Goples of the full sypewristem
repere ase ef eourse aveilable fer your ues.
Paisafully yours,
melesures
Cordell Hul
the Preskdens,
hete onee.
50
depy of
11
40
OBV
NT
0
mm

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
May 13, 1937
RP - 329
Mr. Gdrbor:
Can you tail me whether any
COpi: of the FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC
ANNJAL OF JAPAN FF 1936 (894.51/491)
were detached ip RP, or sent by RF to
Lg?
One gopy of this publication was
Bent to the Library by DCR-Publications
Section. Two copies have become detached
somowhere in the Department.
Any information you may be able to
furnish in regard to the whereabouts of
these two missing copies will be appre-
ciated.
Ju.Pe.fis
DCR-570

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.80)
Plears see if any
Copies har, beeth
detached in R P 
not ho ow
Copy
sed
HEN
dwf.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 10, 1937
480
DCR - Room 570
HEF
Mr. Perkins:
The enclosures to the
attached despatch have not
been received in FE. Any
further information in regard
to the enclosures under
reference would be appreciated.
FE:WTT

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
6N OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
May 6, 1937
FE - Room 381
Mr. Turner:
Two copies of the FINANCIAL
AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL OF JAPAN for 1936
(enclosures to despatch No. 2353, Emb.,
Tokyo, Apri1 9, 1937 (894.51/491)) were
attached to this despatch when it left
DCR-Publications Section.
These copies have not been returned
to either the FE Section or the Publica-
tions Section of this Division.
S.W.P.hins
DCR-570-Pubs.Sect.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.89)
RTMENT OF STATE.
Bureau,
FE
May 5, 1937, 19
INDEX BUREAU:
Please send me .....enaloaures...to
despatct No.we353, Tokyo, April 9,
00
1937.
F00
QFR
Englosuigscentitled
FINANCIAL AND ECONONIC ANNUAL OF
JAPAN FOR 1906.
894.51/491
File No.
Index Bu.-No. 6.
1-110
1923.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2353.
Tokyo, April 9, 1937.
SUBJECT:
FINANCIAL ANNUAL FOR THE DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT 
894.51
Department of State
Capy If euc. in FE/38
MAY :1937
RESLU ANLICATION
894.51/491
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
3
(hith /en) 
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORD8
PUBLICATIONS SECION
MAY 3 1937
I euel. to Li
1937
dwp
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith three copies
of th• FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL OF JAPAN for 1936,
received gratis from the Japanese Government.
MAY  1957
A-C℃
RECORDING DESK
Respeotfully yours,
FILE- WHD
人
3
Joseph C. Grew
Accompaniment:
S COP1OS FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL for 1936,
Japanese Department of Finance.
10

=== Page 78 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF THE ECONOMIC ADVISER
April 20, 1937.
MEMORANDUM
CONCERNING THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
OF THE JAPANESE SITUATION
In November of 1934 there was prepared in this office,
with considerable assistance from the Division of Far
Eastern Affairs, a study of economic and financial condi-
tions in Japan, the object of which was to determine the
ability of the Japanese Government to carry on an exten-
sive program of increased armaments and to continue
extensive military expenditures in "Manchukuo"and North
China. The general conclusions of this study were that
the public finances of Japan were in relatively good
condition, that industrial development was on a solid
basis, and that there appeared to be no reason why Japan
could not finance relatively heavy expenditures if, for
reasons of national policy, she desired to do so. It is
the object of this memorandum to bring the earlier study
up to date and, in the light of developments since
November 1934, to reappraise the situation.
Summary and Conclusions
Internal financing.
The expenditures of the Japanese Government since
1933

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
1933 have continued steadily to increase. During the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1933, the total expenditures
of the general account amounted to 1,950,000,000 yen; in
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1937, expenditures were
about 2,312,000,000 yen, while the budget for 1937-1933
calls for an expenditure of 2,815,000,000 yen, an incrcase
from the preceding year of about 500,000,000 yen.
Revenues have not kept pace with expenditures; they
increased from 1,331,000,000 yen in the fiscal year 1932-
1933, to an estimated figure of 1,s00,000,000 yen in the
fiscal year 1936, while the budget for 1937-1938 is
reported to call for tax increases which are expected to
raise the revenue in that year to about 2,000,000,000 yen.
The continued excess of expenditures over revenues
has naturally necessitated a steady increase in the
national debt. During each of the fiscal years since
March 31, 1933, the Government has issued bonds to a
value of between 700 and 881 million yen. The national
debt has thus increased from about 7 billions of yen on
March 31, 1933, to about 10,500,000,000 yen on March 31,
1937, while the bond issue envisaged by the budget for
1937-1938 wi11 bring the debt to about 11,500,000,000
on March 31, 1938, with a probable deficit of between
750,000,000 and 1,000,000,000 yen to be covered by a bond
issue

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
issue during the succeeding year. Further, a portion of
the national debt is an external debt calculated at the
old gold value of the yen; if calculated at the present
exchange value of the yen, in which interest and princinal
are paid, the debt figures quoted above vould be larger
by one-half billion to one billion yen.
Although the public debt of Japan is large and has
probably increased at a rate excecding the growth of the
productive capacity of the country, the consensus of
opinion among financial observers is that it is not
dangerously large for a country with productive resources
as extensive as those of Japan.
It is obvious that one of the most important factors
in the ability of the Japanose Government to continue its
large military cxponditures is its ability to borrow, and
this dcponds primarily upon the ability and willingness
of the banking system to absorb new issues of bonds. At
the end of 1933, 40 percent and at the end of 1936, 44.5
percent of the total debt was held by banks, with an
additional 16.6 percent and 18.1 percent in each of those
years, respectively, held by the Deposit Bureau of the
Department of Finance. At the end of 1936, Government
bonds constituted 47.4 percent of the investment portfolios
of commercial banks, and about S6 percent and 32 percent
of

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
of the investment portfolios of the savings banks and
trust companies, respectively. These figures do not
indicate the banks to be overloaded with Government bonds.
Presumably the private banks can and will absorb new
issues of Government bonds. Thus far, the Bank of Japan
has experienced little difficulty in disposing of Govern-
ment bonds. Neither its bond holdings nor the note issue
has materially increased; presumably both could be in-
creased to provide an enlarged market for Government bonds.
In spite of the relatively favoraple facts and figures
cited above, the future of Government financing does not
appear to be bright. Competition for credit between the
Government and private industry has manifested itself; this
competition plus the munitions boom, incrcased priccs,
weakness of the exchange value of the yen, and fear of
inflation resulting from announcement of the 1937-1938
budget - these factors operated to drive down the price of
Government bonds below the issue price late in 1936.
Although the situation was temporary, it has becn evi-
denced that the Government oxpects some difficulty in its
financing by its recent decision to conduct open-market
operations through the Bank of Japan and its rccent indi-
cation that it may resort to compulsion on the banks to
dispose of its bonds in 1937.
While

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
While both wholesale and retail prices in Japan have
increascd largely in recent years, mage rates not only
nave showed no tendency to rise but actually shoved slight
declines. This situation presages labor unrest and
eventual wage increases. Strikes and labor difficultics
are increasing in Japan and it seems almost inevitable
that wages shall rise.
From the facts and figurcs vhich are available it is
necessary to conclude that there nro no convincing reasons
why Japan's program of exponditures may not continue to
be financed provided the Govornmont-military continues to
receive the support of the masses, thich, in the last
analysis, bear the burden. Given this support, the Gov-
ernment possesses the moans to coapel the banks to
cooperate, and it seems probnble that mensures of com-
pulsion mny be necessary in the rolatively near future.
But the continuance of the Japanese people to accopt their
burden, to regard it as necessitated by a state of national
emergency and to accept it ungrudgingly, is itself in some
question. Should the people show signs of deserting the
program, whether the Government-military would capitulate,
or whether it vould resort to compulsion or to military
diversion, is not a matter to be predicted.
2.
External financing.
Perhaps the most unsatisfactory nspect of Japan's
econonic

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
economic and financial position is the state of her inter-
national balance of payments. Japan has had a growing
debit in her international balance of payments for the
last two or three years. Her exchange reserves abroad
are somewhat depleted, her merchandise trade showed a
large debit in 1936 and an even larger one is probable
in 1937 unless checked by exchange control. This is due
in large part, first, to the increased prices of
increased imports of raw materials for the increased
manufacture of armaments and for the needs of Japanese
export industries, and secondly, to increased capital
outlays in Manchuria, mostly of a military nature.
The foreign exchange value of the yen declined pre-
cipately in October 1936 and continued weak during the
remainder of the year. It has regained considerable
1937
 m.strength during the first three months of rs as a
result, in large part, of (1) an exchange control system
established on January 8, 1937, and (2) to the exporta-
tion of about 50,000,000 yen in gold and announcement of
a policy of exporting gold to support the yen. The
present Government is committed to maintaining the
present exchange value of the yen.
It is clear that gold shipments offer no permanent
solution. Although considerable quantities can be
exported without unfortunate results, at the present
rate

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
rate of expenditure in Manchuria such a policy could not
be maintained for more than a year or two.
If exchange control is exercised in an effective
manner to cut down the debit in the international account,
it will undoubtedly have repercussions on Japanese
exports, and it is difficult to sec how thc international
account will be materially improved by this method.
The state of Japan's balance of payments, therefore,
clearly exerts pressure on the Government to cut down its
imports of raw materials for armaments manufacture and to
curtail expenditures in Manchuria and North China. But
this pressurc is being successfully resisted and probably
will continue to be resisted. The only possibility that
is foreseen is that future increases in the revenues of
"Manchukuo" may make it feasible to transfer to the
"Manchukuo" treasury a largor share of the bur den of
supporting the Kwantung army.
Clearly, the alternative to retrenchment is control.
The divided Government of Japan may continue to muddle
along for quite a while, depleting gold reserves, con-
trolling more and more rigidly foreign exchange and the
internal cconomy. Too much control and labor unrest
might lead to a dictatorship.
MEMORANDUM

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2353.
Tokyo, April 9, 1937.
SUBJECT:
FINANCIAL ANNUAL FOR THE DEPARTMENT.
Division of
FAB EASTERN AFEAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HAY4-2932
894.51
Department of State
MAY 4 1937
Capy I euc. in Fe/38
80OF
Résaún And PlicatIon
DE   A
 3 3 20
SNCI
071
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.51/491
E0RDS
DIVISION OF
(hith /ene) 
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
PUBLICATIONS SECTION
EVED
MAY 3 1937
MAY 1 5 1937
0
I enel. to Li
HHOO
AND
dop
The Honorable
95
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith three copies
of the FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL OF JAPAN FOr 1936,
received gratis from the Japanese Government.
A-C/C
MAY 20 1937
FILJD
RECORDING DESK
Respectfully yours
FILE-WHB
3
Joseph C. Grew
Accompaniment:
3 COP1O FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL for 1936,
Japanese Department of Finance.
ASSISIANT SECRETARY
OF STATE
F/FG

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
CAAMAAARAAAAAAAAA
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION ORRFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
RECFLAPo11 13 1937.
MAY 10 137
EA
DIVISION OF
Mr. Feis:
In FE's opinion, EA's memorandum of March 27, 1937,
concerning the public finances of Japan is an excellent
piece of work, especially in view of the paucity of
immediately available statistical material and published
critical analyses on the subject.
FE offers the following suggestions and comnents in
894.51/492
regard to the memorandum for EA's consideration:
At the outset, there appears the statement, "In
November of 1934 there was prepared in this office a study
of economic and financial conditions in Japan. . . ."
Toward giving an accurate accounting, this should, in FE's
opinion, read in effect, "In November of 1934 there was
prepared in this office, with considerable assistance from
the Division of Far Eastern Affairs, a study of economic
and financial conditions in Japan. . . ."!
With regard to the discussion of wages, in numbered
paragraph 2 on page 19, and of wages and prices, in para-
graph (f) on page 31, inasmuch as rising prices and wages
equally affect production in other countries besides Japan,
it is thought that too much emphasis should not be placed
upon them as factors in curtailing Japan's export trade.
Furthermore, there is probably further room for rationaliza-
F
tion of industry, which would reduce the cost of manufaoture
1
B
and

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
and thus offset rising costs of raw materials and higher
wages.
On page 32 in numbered paragraph 1 in connection
with the suggestion that curtailment of military expenditures
in North China and Manchuria, possibly accompanied by a
decrease in military expenditure at home, would be the
simplest measure of relief, it is stated that the "former
is more plausible than the latter, which is scarcely worth
mentioning". The only possibility in this direction that
K
is foreseen is that future increases in the revenues of
"Manchukuo" may make it feasible to transfer to the
"Manchukuo" treasury a larger share of the burden now
being borne by the Japanese Treasury for the upkeep of the
Kwantung Army.
Japan's ability to absorb deficit bonds, which will
amount to about Yen 752,000,000 during the current fiscal
year, is largely dependent upon a continuation of the
present industrial prosperity. This prosperity may be
adversely affected by increased taxation which has been
Yeot
projected. It would be premature to discuss this phase
of the subject, as detailed information is not yet available,
but it is thought that this point should be mentioned as
a factor in the future situation.
At the end of the memorandum (pp. 29-32), there is a
statement of "conclusions". The separate items in this
statement are very interesting, but it is believed desirable
that an effort be made, by way of formulating a conclusion
to

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
to conclusions, to offer some concise statement to the
effect that there is or is not warrant for believing that
Japan's political efforts are on the verge of a breakdown
because of the overburden which they impose upon Japan's
financial and economic capacities.
It would seem advisable also to include in the survey
of Japan's financial position a statement to the following
effect: Although an examination of the economic data
available would indicate that there is no reason for
assuming that Japan cannot continue to finance relatively
heavy expenditures for military purposes, there are so
many imponderables and uncertainties, as well as factors
other than economic, which enter into the situation that
it would be unwise to adhere unqualifiedly to the contrary
assumption. There would appear to be no warrant for any
assumption that Japan is using up capital reserves in her
struggle for markets abroad. However, it is generally
agreed that Japan's financial position imposes a heavy
burden of sacrifice upon the public, especially the masses.
It may be questioned how long the Japanese public will
continue to regard this burden as being necessitated by a
state of national emergency and to accept it ungrudgingly,
and also whether the vitality of the nation's man-power,
its chief industrial asset, is not being so impaired by
the strain as to prejudice the nation's future productive
capacity.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
capacity. Internal political and social unrest, operating
directly as well as indirectly by tempting the military
group to seek a way out through creating complications in
Japan's external relations, are even more likely than
purely economic factors to develop so as to affect Japan's
industrial progress adversely and to bring about collapse
of the financial program.
D.JWB/REK

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL.
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4
OFFICE OF THE ECONOMIC ADYISER
RECETV
OFFICE OE EOONONG ADVLER
APR 2 7 1937
WAPR 26 1937
April 20, 1937.
DIVISION oF
DEPARTMENT OF STITE
In November 1934 EA and FE prepared a report on the
452
Japanese financial und economic ituation which atterpted
894.51
to appraige the ability of Japan to carry for aro her then
current political and economic program. In accordance witi.
your recent instruction this report hes been revised and
brought up to date, and I am cubmitting herevith a revision.
894.51/493
prefaced by a short summary and concluions.
Because of the interest shorm by the hite House in
the earlier report, I believe it would be aesiracle to
send to the Pre:ident a copy of this memorandum, and I
have drefted a note accordingly for your signature.
This study has bees carefully checked through witn
the Far Eastern Division  nc with a member of the Tariff
Commission who nas specialized in Japanese economic affairs.
HF
MY  
UF
A 26 1037
NOTED
EA: HF: LWW
F/FG
1

=== Page 91 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF THE ECONOMIC ADVISER
April 20, 1937.
MEMORANDUM
CONCERNING THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
OF THE JAPANESE SITUATION
In November of 1934 there was prepared in this office,
with considerable assistance from the Division of Far
Eastern Affairs, a study of economic and financial condi-
tions in Japan, the object of which was to determine the
ability of the Japanese Government to carry on an exten-
sive program of increased armaments and to continue
extensive military expenditures in "Manchukuo"and North
China. The general conclusions of this study were that
the public finances of Japan were in relatively Sood
condition, that industrial development was on a solid
basis, and that there appeared to be no reason why Japan
could not finance relatively heavy expenditures if, for
reasons of national policy, she desired to do so. It is
the objoct of this memorandum to bring the earlier study
up to date and, in the light of developments since
November 1934, to reappraise the situation.
Summary and Conclusions
1.
Internal financing.
The expenditures of the Japanese Government since
1933

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
1933 have continued steadily to increase. During the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1933, the total expenditures
of the scneral account amounted to 1,950,000,000 yen; in
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1937, expenditures were
about 2,312,000,000 yen, whil the budget for 1937-1938
cal1s for an expenditure of 2,815,000,000 yen, an incronse
from the preceding year of about 500,000,000 yen.
Revenues have not kept pace with expenditures; they
increased from 1,331,000,000 yen in the fiscal year 1932-
1933, to an estimated figure of 1,s00,000,000 yen in the
fiscal year 1936, while the budget for 1937-1938 is
reported to call for tax increases which are expected to
raise the revenue in that year to about 2,000,000, 000 yen.
The continued excess of expenditures over revenues
has naturally necessitated a steady increase in the
national debt. During each of the fiscal years since
March 31, 1933, the Government has issued bonds to a
value of between 700 and 881 million yen. The national
debt has thus increased from about 7 billions of yen on
March 31, 1933, to about 10,500,000,000 yen on March 31,
1937, while the bond issue envisaged by the budget for
1937-1938 wi11 bring the debt to about 11,500,000,000
on March 31, 1938, with a probablo deficit of between
750,000,000 and 1,000,000,000 yen to be covered by a bond
issue

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
issue during the succeeding year. Further, a portion of
the national debt is an external debt calculated at the
old gold value of the yen; if calculated at the present
exchange value of the yen, in which intcrest and princinal
are paid, the debt figures quoted above would be larger
2
by one-half billion to one billion yen.
Although the public debt of Japan is large and has
probably increased at a rate excecding the growth of the
productive capacity of the country, the consensus of
opinion among financial observers is that it is not
dangerously large for a country with productive resources
as extensive as those of Japan.
It is obvious that one of tho most important factors
in the ability of the Japanese Government to continue its
large military cxponditures is its ability to borrow, and
this doponds primarily upon the ability and willingness
of the banking system to absorb new issues of bonds. At
the end of 1933, 40 percent and at the end of 1936, 44.5
percent of the total debt was held by banks, with an
additional 16.6 percent and 18.1 percent in each of those
years, respectively, held by the Deposit Bureau of the
Department of Finance. At the end of 1936, Government
bonds constituted 47.4 percent of thc investment portfolios
of commercial banks, and about 66 percent and 32 percent
of

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
of the investment portfolios of the savings banks and
trust companics, respectively. These figures do not
indicate the banks to be overloaded with Government bonds.
Presumably the private banks can and will aosorb now
issues of Government bonds. Thus far, the Bank of Japan
has experienced little difficulty in disposing of Govern-
ment bonds. Neither its bond holdings nor the note issue
has materially increased; presumably both could be in-
creased to provide an enlarged market for Government bonds.
In spite of the relatively favorable facts and figures
cited above, the future of Governmont financing does not
appear to be bright. Competition for credit between the
Government and private industry has manifested itself; this
competition plus the munitions boos, incrcased priccs,
weakness of the exchange value of the yen, and fear of
inflation resulting from announcement of the 1937-1938
budget - these factors operated to drive dom the price of
Government bonds below the issue price late in 1936.
Although the situation was temporary, it has been evi-
denced that the Government oxpects some difficulty in its
financing by its recent dccision to conduct open-market
●
operations through the Bank of Japan and its recent indi-
cation that it may resort to compulsion on the banks to
dispose of its bonds in 1937.
While

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
While both wholesalo and retail prices in Japan have
increased largely in recent years, mage rates not only
nave shored no tondenoy to rise but actually shomed slight
declines. This situation presages labor unrest and
eventual wage increases. Strikes and labor difficultics
7
are increasing in Japan and it seems almost inevitable
that wages shall rise.
From tho facts and figures vhich are available it is
necessary to conoludo that there nre no convincing reasons
why Japan's program of exponditures may not continue to
be financed provided the Governmont-military continues to
receive the support of the
mosses, which, in the last
analysis, bear the burden.
Givon this support, the Gov-
ernment possesses the aonns to compel the banks to
cooperate, and it seems probable that mensures of com-
pulsion nny be necessary in the rulatively near future.
But the continuance of the Japanese people to accopt their
burden, to regard it as necessitated by a state of national
omergenoy and to nccept it ungrudgingly, is itself in somo
question. Should the people sho signs of deserting the
0
progran, whether the Government-military vould capitulate,
or whether it would rosort to compulsion or to military
diversion, is not a matter to be predicted.
2.
External financing.
Perhaps the most unsatisfactory aspect of Japan's
econonic

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
economic and financial position is the state of her inter-
national balance of payments. Japan has had a growing
debit in her international balance of payments for the
last two or three years. Her exchange reserves abroad
are somewhat depleted, her merchandise trade showed a
large debit in 1936 and an even larger one is probable
in l937 unless checked by exchange control. This is due
in large part, first, to the increased prices of
increased imports of raw materials for the increased
manufacture of armaments and for the needs of Japanese
export industries, and secondly, to increased capital
outlays in Manchuria, mostly of a military nature.
The foreign exchange value of the yen declined pre-
cipately in October 1936 and continued weak during the
remainder of the year. It has regained considerable
strength during the first three months of 193s as a
result, in large part, of (1) an exchange control system
established on January &, 1937, and (2) to the exporta-
tion of about 50,000,000 yen in gold and announcement of
a policy of exporting gold to support the yen.
Tne
present Government is committed to maintaining the
present exchange value of the yen.
It is clear that old shipments offer no permanent
solution. Although considerable quantities can be
exported without unfortunate results, at the present
rate

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
rate of expenditure in Manchuria such a policy could not
be maintained for more than a year or two.
If exchange control is exercised in an offective
manner to cut down the debit in the international account,
it will undoubtedly have repercussions on Japanese
exports, and it is difficult to sec how the international
account will be materially improved by this method.
The state of Japan's balance of payments, therefore,
clearly exerts pressure on the Govornment to cut down its
imports of raw materials for armamonts manufacture and to
curtail oxpenditures in Manchuria and North China. But
this pressurc is being successfully resisted and vrobably
will continue to be resisted.
. The only possibility that
is foreseen is that future increases in the revenues of
"Manchukuo" may make it feasible to transfer to the
"Manchukuo" treasury a largor share of the bur den of
supporting the Kwantung army.
Clearly, the alternative to retrenchment is control.
The divided Government of Japan may continue to muddle
along for quite a while, depleting gold reserves, con-
trolling more and more rigidly foreign exchange and the
internal economy. Too much control and labor unrest
might lead to a dictatorship.
MEMORANDUM

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
MEMORANDUM
CONCERNING THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
OF THE JAPANESE SITUATION
Expenditures, revenucs, and the national debt.
The expenditures of the Japanese Government since
1933 have continued steadily to incrcase (see table 1).
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1933, total
expenditures of the general account amounted to
1,950,000, 000 yen. In the fiscal year onded Merch 31,
1937, tota1 expenditures were about 2,312,000,000 yon,
while the budget proposed for the fisoal year 1937-1938
reaches the figure of 2,815, 000, 000 yen. Although
expenditures have been increasing rapidly, revenues,
which even in the fiscal year 1923-1933 were far behind
expenditures, have increased less rapidly. Total revenues
for the year ending March 31, 1933, amountcd to 1,331, 000,000
yen; during the fiscal year 1936-1937 the ostimated rovenues
were about 1,600,000,000 yen. Tho revised budget estimates
for the year 1937-1938 carry rather heavy tax increases,
and the Government estimates the revenue for that year will
amount to over two billion yen.
The continued excoss of ovpenditures over revenues
has naturally necessitated the floating of deficit bonds.
In cach of the fiscal yoars since March 31, 1933, the Gov-
ornment has issued bonds to a value of between 7o0 and
881 million yen. The national doot thus increasod from
about

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
about seven billions of yen in the fisonl year ended
March 31, 1933, to an estimated ton and one-half billions
on March 31, 1937, while budget ostimates for the fiscal
year 1937-1938 will bring the figure up to about
11,480,000,000 on March 31, 1938. (Scc tab1e 2.) In
addition, it should be pointed out that a portion of
the public debt (avout 1, 400,000,000 yon calculated at
the old gold value of the yen) is an external debt; in
terms of present exchange value (in which interest and
principal are paid), this extornal debt amounts to about
2,500,000,000 yen.1/
Using the latter figure for the
external debt, the total public debt is expected to be
about 13,603,000,000 yen at the end of the fisca1 year
1937-1938, with the probable doficit of beteen 750,000,000
and 1,000, 000, 000 yen at that time to be covered by a bond
issue during the following fiscal year.
Although the public debt of Japan is large and has
incrcased rapidly in recent years, probably exceeding the
rate of growth of the productive capacity of the country,
the consensus of opinion of financial observers is that
it is not dangerously large for a country with productive
resources
1 A substantial portion of this debt was probably
repatriated prior to Janan's abandonment of the gold
standard, and this figure is tnereforc too high; how-
ever, it is believed to be more accurate than the debt
calculated at the old gold valuc of the yen.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 1. Japan:
Expenditures and Revenues of the General
Account, 1928-1938.
(In thousands of yen)
: Change in :
Year Ending : Expendi- :Non-Borrowed: Deficit :Loans Floated :
accumu-
: Accumulated
March 31
tures
Revenues
:for Government:
lated
surpluses
Account
surpluses :
1928
1,765,723
1,524,126
-241,597
61,094
- 1£0,503
297,032
1929
1,814,855
1,551,574
-263,281
157,085
-106,196
190,836
1930
1,736,317
1,535,746
-200,571
99,862
-100,709
90,123
1931
1,557,864
1,458,844
- 9,020
38,000
- 51,020
39,108
1932
1,476,875
1,371,701
-105,174
120,272
15,098
54,206
1933
1,950,141
1,331,477
-618,664
650,592
+
40,928
95,134
1934
2,254,662
1,438,587
-771,075
753,038
66,747
28,388
193511
2,163,004
1,314,280
-+8,724
81,108
21,388
7,000
1936 2/
2,215,414
1,436,763
-778,651
771,651
+
20,000
27,000
10-
193731
2,311,517
1,601,700
-709,817
703,838
7,000
20,000
1938 41
2,815,000
2,0+4,000
-771,000
915,000
1/ All figures are Budget figures except Expenditures, which are actual
account on July 1, 1935.
2/ All figures are Budget figures, except that the change in accumulated
surplus is estimated by the Japan Advertiser, 2/13/37.
3/ Although officially the budget for 1936-1937 was a carry-over of the
budget from the preceding vear, the Japan Advertiser, 2/13/37, gives
these figures as the working budget.
4/ Figures for expenditures and loans to be floated are from the budget as
it passed the Diet, reported from Tokvo Commercial Attaché, S. R. No.
152, March 6, 1937. Non-borrowed revenues. are Cabinet estimates
before the budget passed - Japan A6vertiser 2/13/37.
Source: Japan:
Department of Finance, Financial and Economic Annual of Japan
(subject to footnotes).

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 2.
Japan: National Debt Outstanding Since 1928.
: External : Estimated total
: debt con- : debt using ex-
: verted at
: ternal debt fig-
As of March 31
Internal
External*
Total
: exchange
: ures for 1935
: rates
: converted at ex-
: December, : change rates
:1936
: December, 1936
1928
3,944,473
1,453,393
5,397,867
1929
4,379,966
1,451,295
5,831,261
1930
4,512,6cg
1,466,849
5,959,457
1931
4,476,792
1,479,02+
5,955,817
1932
4,715,078
1,+72,579
6,187,657
1933
5,563,754
1,390,442
7,054,196
1934
6,724,000
1,+15,000
8,139,038
1935
7,687,511
1,402,943
9,090,454
2,525,314
10,212,825
1936 (Buaget)
9,862,105
10,984,475
1937 (Budget) 1/
10,565,943
11,688,313
1938 21
11,480,943
12,603,313
Converted at arbitrary figures of: £ 1 = 9.763 yen; $1 = 2.006 yen;
Fr. 1 = 0.387 yen.
1/ Japan Advertiser, 2/13/37: Deficit of "Working budget" for year to be covered
by bond issues was estimated at 703,638,000 yen.
2/ Revised budget approved by the Diet calls for an issue of bonds to value of
915,000,000 yen. Tokyo Commercial Attaché, S. R. 152, March 6, 1937.
Source: (except as modified by footnotes)
Japan, Department of Finance:
Financial
and Economic Annual of Japan.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
resources as extensive as those of Japan. (For statistics
concerning debt service, see table 3.)
Position of the banks with respect to Government Financing.
In the earlier report bearing on this subject it
wO.S
pointed out that one of the most important factors in the
ability of Japan to continue its broad expenditures was
its ability to borrow, and its ability to borrow depended
primarily on the ability of the banking system to absorb
new issues of bonds. The conclusion of the earlier study
on this point was that the banks did not appear to be
unduly loaded vith Government bonds (particularly in
comparison with the situation in thc United States), and
that the Bank of Japan was having no difficulty in dispos-
ing of Government bond issues.
Pertinent etatistics regarding the financial position
of the various types of banks in Japan and the relation
of the banks to the public debt are shown in tables 4 and
banks as a group are the most important
holders of Government bonds. At the ond of 1936 they held
about 24 percent of the national debt.
Botween the end of
the year 1933 and the cnd of the year 193s, the deposits
of commercial banks increased by 25.3 percent, the hold-
ings of Government bonds increased by S3.3 porcent, while
loans and discounts increased by only 6.7 percent.
At the
end

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 3. Japan: Debt Service in the National Budget.
(thousands of yen)
: % which Debt
% which Debt
Year ending : Expenditure : Debt Service Charged : Service con-
Service'con-
March 31
: (General Fund): to Generel Fund
: stitutes of
stitutes of
Interest : total expendi-:
non-borrowed
: Total
only
tures
revenues
1928
1,765,723
252,134
175,286
16.0
18.5
1929
1,814,855
285,701
191,632
15.7
18.4
1930
1,736,317
280,343
192,796
16.1
18.3
1931
1,577,864
272,517
193,718
17.5
18.6
1932
1,476,875
213,844
201,940
14.5
15.6
1933
1,950,141
259,890*
237,555
13.3**
19.5**
1934
2,254,662
376,896*
15.7**
25.4**
1935
2,163,004*
378,950*
17.5**
28.3**
1936
2,215,+14
389,527*
17.6**
27.1**
3
1937 1/
2,311,517
+14,000
17.9**
25.8**
1
1938 1/
2,15,000
446,000
15.9**
21.5**
1
Budget.
**
Estimated percentages.
1/ Figures for expenditures are estimates taken from Table 1. Debt service
figures are rather dubious estimates secured by adding 3 1/2 percent
(as interest) on the actual or proposed new issues in the two years
ending March 31, 1938 (from Table 1) to the debt service figure for
1936.
Source (subject to footnotes): Japan:
Department of Finance, Financial and
Economic Annual of Japan.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
-14
end of 1933, Government bondo constituted 47.4 percent of
the investment portfolios of commercial banks. At the
end of 1936 this percentage vas 53.4 percent. In June
1934 United States Government bonds constituted 63 percent
of the investment portfolios of member banks of the
Federal Reserve System of the United States, and on
June 30, 1936, the percentage vas 68 porcent.
Japanosc
commercial banks, therefore, do not appear to be as
heavily loaded with government bonds as Federal Reserve
member banks in the United States.
The statistics in table 4 demonetrate that the nev
deposits of conmercial banks in Japan have been brought
into existence largely through the medium of purchascs
by the banks of Government securities created for the
purpose and have been accompanied by a relatively small
increaso in loans, indicating business to bo financed
largely by Governmental expenditure. But the same situa-
tion existed until recently in the United States.
As regards savings banks, between the end of 1933
and the end of 1936, deposits increased only slightly,
loans and discounts actually decrcased by about 32 percent,
and holdings of Government bonds inereased by about 18
percent, and holdings of other securities incrcased
about 10 percent. At the end of 1933, Government bonds
constituted 66.3 percent of the investmont portfolios of
savings

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
-15
savings banks; at the end of 193s the percentage vas about
the some.
at the end of 193s, Government bonds constituted
26.6 percent of the invostment portfolios of trust
companies in Japan; at the ond of 1936 the percentage
was 31.7 percent.
At the end of 1933, about 40 porcent of the total
public debt was held by banks, rith an additional 16.6
percent held by the Deposit Bureau of the Department of
Finance; at the end of 1936, 44.5 porcent of the public
dobt was held by the banks and 18.1 percent held by the
Deposit Bureau of the Department of Finance.
The
remainder of the public debt was probably held by
insurance companies, corporations and privato individuals.
Although the foregoing figures afford some indica-
tion of the financial position of Japanose banks, they
can scarcely be used to predict tho futurc ability or
willingness of the banks to absorb further issues of
Government bonds. It is probable they can take con-
siderably more of such bonds, and if compelled they
could absorb large quantities of additional Government
bonds; this of course vould have inflationary offects.
The financial position of the Bank of Japan is
shown in table 6. The gold holdings of the Bank of
Japan have increased somewhat (due, it is reported, to
the

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
the purchases of newly mined gold); its holdings of Gov-
ernment bonds show fluctuation with little tendency to
increase, indicating that the bank, up through January
of 1937, has had no difficulty in disposing of its hold-
ings of Government bonds; while the statistics concerning
note issues indicate no inflation of central bank credit
as a method of Government financing.
Concerning the gold held in the Bank of Japan as
reserve against note issue, several points must be noted.
The figure given apparently does not include holdings of
the Bank of Japan abroad, nor does it include the holdings
of foreign exchange by the Yokohana Specie Bank; however,
these holdings are reported to have beon somevhat depleted
in recent years. Further the gold resorve is cuoted in
yen of the old gold standard; if converted at the present
depreciuted value of the yen, the gold reserve vould amount
to about 1,300,000,000 yen, or over 100 percent of note
issue.
However, it should be noted that the note issues of
the Banks of Chosen and of Formoso are legally convertible
into sold or into Bank of Japan notes. The combined note
issues of these banke are belicved to be about 15 percent
as large as the notc issue of the Bank of Janan. Although
these banks possess some reserves of gold, silver, and
foreign currencies, they are belicved to be inadequate
coverage,

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 4.
Financial data concerning three types of banks in
Japan and the Deposit Bureau of the Department of
Finance.
(thousands of yen)
End of December
1933
1934
1935
1936
Commercial Banks
Deposits
8,727,313
9,353,692
9,710,372
10,932,117
Loans and discounts
6,244,070
5,871,829
6,121,176
6,660,175
Government bonds
1,567,770
2,017,064
2,205,319
2,560,719
Other securities
1,737,023
1,855,054
2,017,115
2,234,838
Deposits in other banks
355,896
359,921
371,677
330,541
Savings Banks
Deposits
1,825,259
1,881,238
2,044,578
1,842,928
Loans and discounts
349,959
335,158
329,771
238,718
7
Government bonds
862,142
934,533
1,069,933
1,015,693
1
Other securities
457,772
456,902
517,721
508,489
Deposits in other banks
217,507
233,3+0
209,109
152,460
Trust Companies
Total investments
578,446
805,993
944,514
1,135,424
Government bonds
153,619
245,373
277,034
359,798
Other securities
424,827
560,520
657,480
775,626
Loans
920,3+3
699,073
965,778
985,091
Deposits with other banks
and cash
53,762
58,474
46,115
47,364
Deposit Bureau - Department of
Finance
Total assets
3,862,188
4,098,478
4,246,352
4,694,182
Government bonds
1,348,312
1,614,316
1,740,130
1,910,074
Postal savings
2,881,168
3,034,030
3,202,788
3,453,827
Source:
Financial and Economic Annual of Japan.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
Table 5.
Japan:
National Debt Outstanding and Holdings of Government Bonds
by Various Types of Banks.
(thousands of yen)
: Bonds Held by
:Total Gov-:
: the Deposit
: National :
:ernment
:Percent of: Bureau-Depart-
: Debt Out-:
Government Bonds Held By
: 3onds Held: total debt:ment of Finance
: standing : Commercial: Savings : Trust : Bank of:by Banks :held by
:% of
:as of
:Banks
: Banks : Companies: Japan :as of
: banks as
: :Nat7.
: March 31 :
as of December 31
: Dec. 31
: of Dec. 31*: Value
: debt*
1933
7,054,196 1,567,770
862,142
153,169 667,000 3,250,081
39.9
1,348,312 16.6
1934
8,139,030
2,017,064
93+,533
245,373 647,000
3,843,970
42.3
1,614,316 17.8
1935
9,090,454
2,205,3191,069,933
277,034 746,000
4,298,286
43.6
1,740,130 17.6
1936
9,862,105
2,560,719 1,015,693
359,798 765,000
4,701,210
44.5
1,910,07+ 18.1
19371/ 10,565,943
2/
2/
2/
2
2
19381 11,291,343
2
2
2
2
2
2
In calculating these percentages the holdings on December 31 of each year were
figured against the total debt outstanding on the following March 31.
1/ Estimates. See Table 2.
2/ Not available.
Source: Financial and Economic Annual of Japan.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
coverage, and it is further believed that the gold of
the Bank of Japan ultinatoly supports these issues, at
least in part. In cddition, the note issue of Manchuria,
backed only by small silver reserves, is pegged to the
yen, and the Bank of Japan thus ultimately supports this
issue. But the fact that there are no specific roserve
requirements in Japan, Manchuria, Chosen, or Formosa
relieves the ratio of reserves to note issue of mich
significance.
Although the figures and the tableu supportine the
foregoing discussion indicate no scrious strain on the
public finances of Japan, certain factual information of
late date indicates possible futuro difficulties of the
Government in its financing progran. In Novenber of
1936, it became apparent that government 3-1/2 percent
"deficit bonds" were being issued in excess of the
market's capacity to absorb thom. The value of the
bonds fell bole- the isuue price, thus temporarily
stopping the Government fron further issue. Although
the situation was temporary, it indicated the existence
of competition for credit bet-eon industry and the Gov-
ernment resultin
from the so-called "munitions boon".
It also reflected a fear of inflation caused by the
prodicted ner nilitary eypenditures, the sudden rise in
commodity prices, thc prospects of larse, ne- issues of
Governnent

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 6.
Financial position of the Bank of Japan.
(millions of yen)
Loans and
Gov't.
Notes
Total
Lest Reporting date in
Gold*
Discounts
Bonds
Issued
Deposits
1933
425
950
567
1,59
377
1934
460
97
647
1,669
341
1935
504
693
745
1,767
404
1936-
January
505
782
50ó
1,+53
404
February
511
1,222
397
1,557
359
March
513
91+
533
1,367
657
April
515
820
554
1,317
580
May
520
730
562
1,371
444
June
524
692
545
1,439
332
July
528
614
477
1,300
401
August
533
727
519
1,455
390
September
536
669
556
1,321
529
2
October
540
621
454
1,453
397
1
November
54+
788
501
1,+91
406
December
5+8
30
765
1,790
390
1937-
January
553*
754
602
1,586
374
* Gold holdings of the Sank of Jepan are reported in gold yen of : pre-devaluation
value. Usinr the Computation of the Yokohama Specie Bank that 5 gold yen
weigh 1 momme (0.1205 ounce) and at the present the devalued price of the yen
1 momme is 14.69 yen, the gold reserve of the Bank of Jepan at the end of
Jenuary, 1934 wes valued at 1,624,714, 000 yen, a figure, it will be noted, in
excess of the note issue. (See Whalev-Eaton Service:
Far Eastern Bulletin
No. 53, Yarch 9, 1937.
Source:
Oriental Economist.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
-21
Government bonds, and doubts concerning the balance of
Dayments and tho future of yen exchange. It must be
noted, howover, that sirilar forces have recently
affected the prices of Government bonds in both the
United Kingdon and the United States.
Official and unofficinl despatches from Tokyo during
February and March report an easy money market and a much
more optimistic vier of business and finance in Japan
than prevailed during the closing veeks of 1936.
That
the Government expects future difficultics in its financ-
ing, homever, is indicated by the recent announcenent
that the Bank of Japan vill reverse ite previous policy
of merely solling Governnent bonds acquired fror the
Government for one of open-merket operations, -ith a
view to controlline the money market. The Japan Weekly
Chronicle reports that the nounting denand for industrial
funds mny cause a stringeney in the money market thich
Hight cause banks to unload Governnent bondn (and by
implication to embarrass the Government in its issues of
new bonds). The Bank of Japan, therefore, wishes to
assume power to anipulate the market in order to insure
the future success of Governnent financing.
There are also indications that the Government may
be obliged to use compulsion on the banks in order to
dispose of its bonds. Tokyo dospatch No. 2309, January 1,
1937,

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
1937, states the Finance Ministry has indicated such
measures may be necessary. Obviously, if compulsion is
resorted to, the price of the bonds could scarcely be
maintained.
The Japanese Government appears to be concerned
over the indications that budgetary expenditures are
increasing faster than the productive capacity of the
country, and the revised budget for 1937-1938 is reported
to provide for extensive credit facilities for industrial
expansion.
Production and price indices, wage and exchange rates,
et cetera.
In the following tables are shovn various indications
of the present condition of the Japanese economy. The
volume of industrial production increased about 79 percent
between 1931 and 1935, remained relatively stationary
during the first six months of 1936, and then advanced
sharply durine the latter months of that year.
Retail prices, though showing no such drastic in-
crease, showed considerable rise from 146 in 1933 to
about 159 in 1936, suddenly increasing to 163 in Decem-
ber of the latter year.
Wage rates, however, not only showed no tendency to
rise but actually showed slight declines.
Wholesale prices in Japan fell from 100 in 1929 to a
low

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
low of 69.6 in 1931 and incrcased thereafter to 84.4 in
1935, while wholesale prices in the United States reached
their 1ow of 68 in 1932 (1929 = 100), rose to 69.3 in
1933, and increased to about 84 in 1935, about the same
level as in Japan. But during 1936, prices increased
much more rapidly in Japan; and in Deceuber of 1936 and
January 1937, prices in Japan rose sharply to about 10?
during the latter month. Recent reports from Tokyo
indicate a slight decline in average prices in February.
During 1936, and particularly in December 1936 and
January 1937, wholesale prices in the United States
showed decided increases, but in January 1937 were only
at the figure of 89.4.
The exchange value of the yen, both in terms of the
dollar and the pound sterling, was strong in 1933 until
October, when it slumped decidedly. In terms of dollars
the yen has remained weak since that time, but in terms
of the pound sterline it recovered considerably in
January, and recont reports (March and April) indicate
it to be considerably stronger. The yon is unofficially
pegged to the pound sterling; the Government has attempted
to keep the yen at 1s 3d, and is nov committed to maintain
that rate; the recovery of the yen in terms of pound
sterling is due at least in part to careful bolstering
operati crs on the part of tho Government.
Certain

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-24
Certain implications of those tables require comment:
1. The relatively larger incrcase in priccs in Japan
in recent months than in the United States appears to have
been brought about at least in part by a wave of speculative
buying. This was in part a fcature of the world-vide
munitions boom, but was probably carried to excess in
Japan because of the fear of inflation resulting from
announcement of Finance Minister Baba's proposed budget
for 1937-1938 with its greatly increased expenditures
and inevitable new indebtednoss. To the extent that
prices in Japan remain above world prices, Japan's
competitivo position in morld markets will be loss
favorable, with obvious implications on the balance of
payments.
2. Unusually heavy imports of rav materials are
expected in 1937 in order to carry out the armaments
progran and to provido for the needs of industry; valued
at higher prices these imports will bear heavily on the
international account. Foroign trado returns for the
first tro months of 1937 indicate imports to be increas-
ing at a greater rate than exports.
3. The failure of wages to increase vith prices
gives promise of labor difficulties. Our Commercial
Attachó in Tokyo (No. 34, February 23, 1937) reports
demands for wage increases to be increasingly numerous
and

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
-25-
and urgent, and that it is only a question of time until
labor unrest vill force wage increases. Moanvhile, the
increasing prices of rav silk and rice have improved the
situation among the farmers to such an oxtent that the
pressure of farm labor on factory labor is easing; the
factory laborer, therefore, may oxpect less difficulty
in achieving higher vagos.
. Wage increnscs naturally vill
tend to increase export prices; hovever, in vier of the
world-vide increase in vages and prices, increases in
Japan may not necessarily oporato to curtail cxports.
International balance of payments.
Perhaps the most unsatisfactory aspect of Japan's
cconomic and financial position is the state of her
international balance of payments. It appeared in 1935
as though Japan was to acquire a credit balance in her
merchandiso trade; the adverse morehandise trade balance
was cut down to about 15 millions of yen in that year.
But in 1936, due partly to incrcased ra- material prices
and partly to the advance in the manufacture of armaments,
the adverse merchandise balance increased to lz0 millions
of yen in 1936, and an even laryer adverse balance is
predicted for the year 1937 unless exchange restrictions
operate severely to rostrict imports. (Seo belou for a
more detailed discussion of these restrictions and their
operation.)
Ja.pan

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 7.
Japan:
Indices of Wholesale Prices and Volume of
Industrial Production, and Wage Rates
Volume of *
Index of
Industrial
Retail Prices
Production
Wage Rates
in Japan
in Japan
(in yen)
1914=100
1928 = 100
Male
Female
1930
109
1931
108
1932
124
1933
146
1+6
1.368
0.623
1934
149
167
1.349
.681
1935
152
193
1.327
.682
1936-
159
January
157
206
1.331
.670
February
159
207
1.330
.671
2
1
March
160
203
1.322
.668
April
160
204
1.317
.665
May
160
205
1.318
.666
June
158
207
1.315
.664
July
159
215
1.315
.665
August
159
219
1.316
.666
September
160
217
1.316
.655
October
159
223
1.316
.665
November
159
December
163
*Seasonally adjusted.
Source: Oriental Economist.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 8.
Indices of holesale Prices in the United States
and Japan, and Exchange Rates, New York on Tokyo
1929 = 100
Exchange rates
Year
United States
Japan
New York
London
on Tokyo
: on Tokyo
cents
s-d
1926
104.9
107.7
1927
100.1
102.2
1928
101.5
102.6
1929
100.0
100.0
1930
90.7
82.4
1931
76.6
69.6
1932
68.0
73.3
1933
69.3
31.6
1/-2.534
1934
70.7
50.8
29.715
1/-2.143
7
1935
53.9
64.4
28.707
1/-2.061
2
1936-
1
January
84.6
87.3
23.993
1/-2.001
February
24.6
26.9
29.130
1/-1.986
March
83.5
86.0
28.93
1/-1.984
April
3.6
27.5
29.869
1/-2.016
May
32.5
§7.5
29.075
1/-2.031
June
3.1
80.1
29.392
1/-2.047
July
4.5
69.8
29.326
1/-2.016
August
5.5
91.3
29.+0+
1/-2.031
September
85.6
91.4
29.414
1/-2.016
October
5.5
91.2
25.609
1/-1.672
November
66.1
92.6
23.559
1/-1.200
December
88.3
97.4
25.512
1/-1.231
1937-
January
9.4
101.8
28.54
1/-1.895
February
28.53
March
28.79
Source:
Price indices (1926 through Oct. 1936) - League of Nations, Monthly Bulletin.
Price indices (Nov.1936-Jan.1937), for United States - Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistios; for Japan Oriental Economist - in both cases adjusted to 1929 base.
Exchange rates - Federal Reserve Bulletin.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
Japan usually has a substantial credit balancc as
regards shipping, insurance, and other such international
services. In 1935 this credit balance vas about 178
millions of yen. It will probably be cubstantially
greater in 1936.
Japan usually has a large dobit balance in capital
movements. In 1935 this debit balance increased to 372
millions of yen as a result of military outlays in
Manchuria and redemption of 61 million yen of South
Manchuria Railway sterling debentures. Although the
Yokohame. Specie Bank's advance estimates indicate little
if any debit as regards capital movements in l936, the
London Statist estimates suc: debit to be at least 400
millions of yen.
The truth is somewhere in between these
tro ostimates.
At this point it mny be noted that a largo part of
the capital transfers from Japan to "Manchukuo" are more
in the nature of gifts or military expenditures than
investments; therefore, returns on a large part of the
"investment" in the form of dividends and interest may
not be expected in the future to aid Japan's inter-
national balance.
In 1935 Japan had a nut credit balance in specic
movements (chiefly silver) of 147 millions of yen. This
vill not be available to balance her 1936 accounts, for
the

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
-29-
the credit balance in that year was only 28-1/2 millions
of yen. (Incidentally, since production of silver in
Japan is insignificant, iost of the silver exported fron
Japan is belicved to have been smuggled into Japan from
Shanghai.)
A sunmary of the balance of payments of the Japanose
Eapire is shorn in table 9. Detailed statistics con-
corning the constituent elements of the sumnary balance
aro shon in tablos 10, 11, 12, and 13.
It eppears rather unmistakably that Jupan has been
incurring dobits in her intornational accounts during the
past two or thrce years and that in 1936 the debits grem
to serious proportions. Soveral sources indicato that
the foreign exchnnge reserven of the Yokohamn Specie
Bank, normally maintained at betveen 300 and 400 million
yen, had been seriously depleted by the closing months
of 193e. The exehange value of the yen broke sharply in
October 1936 and consideraple difficulties more exnerionced
in preventing the value from going lomer, particularly in
December. The exchange nosition of the yen in March 1937
in terms of the pound sterling mas considerably strongor
than during the closing months of 1936, but it has ben
maintained by careful bolstering.
The current debit at tho end of 1936 in the inter-
national account and consequent "eakness in the yen have
occasioned

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
Table 9
Japanese Empire: Suumary of Balance of Payments
(Millions of yen)
1936
1936
Figures Marked
Figures Marked
(1) estimated
(2) quoted by
by Yokohama
London Statist
1932
1933
1934
1935
Specie Bank
2/27/37
Merchandise
trade....- 37.3 -85.4 -143.4 - 14.7
-130.2
-130.3
Current in-
+120.0(2)
visibles.+102.1
+86.2 +144.4 +178.3
See belov
Balance on
current
- 10.2(2)
account..+ 34.9 + 0.8 + 3.0 +133.3
+121.7(1)
Capital
move-
-400.0(2)
ments....-100.1 -21.0-193.5 -371.6
Specie
(gold and
silver)
movements+130.5 +25.6 + 13.1 +146.7
+ 28.5
Balance(3).+ 55.4 + 8.4 -168.4 - 31.3
+ 20.0(1)
-410.2
(3)
Errors, omissions, etc., as woll as movements of funds
held ebroud by Japanese exehange banks and specie
deposited abroad for account of the Japanese Government,
concerning, whicn no information is available.
Source:
1932-1933, Finnncial and Economic Annua1 of Japan.
1934-1933, Department of Commerce: For Eastern
Financial Notes, March 4, 1937.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
Table 10
Current Invisible Itoms
(Iillions of yen)
1932
1933
1934
1935
Income
Income
Dividends and interest.
21.5
23.8
31.5
25.5
Profits of Janancse undertakings abroad
and emigrants' remittances.....
157.2
137.4
186.9
213.5
Earnings abroad by shipping....
151.8
237.9
251.5
303.3
Earnings abroad by insurance conpanies..
117.3
117.6
138.5
128.3
Foruigners' exporditures in Japan.
57.2
39.5
99.2
95.3
Government receipts from ebroad.
5.0
7.2
5.8
12.3
Miscellaneous.
41.3
51.1
46.9
36.2
Total.
581.2
634.5
740.4
820.6
Outo
Outgo
Dividends and interust..
116.9
136.9
124.6
134.8
Profits from Japanese undortakin's
abroad and iimigrant remittaaces.
1.1.1
9.5
9.6
11.3
Shipping.
83.1
101.9
106.9
125.5
Insurance.
108.4
103.9
115.1
118.2
Expenditures abrond of Jponese tourists
etc.
51.3
68.5
35.6
66.9
Government expenditures abroad ( xeept
external loan service).
52.9
136.0
141.7
160.0
Miscellancous....
14.4
21.7
32.3
33.6
Total.
479.1
577.3
596.0
642.3
Balance...
+103.1
+86.2 +144.4 +178.3
Source: Financial und Economic Annual of Japan.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
Table 11
Capital Iteras
(Millions of yen)
1932
1933
1934
1935
Income
Income
Foreign capital invested in Japan....
84.5
119.6
95.7
159.4
Collcction of capital invested abroad...
108.0
174.3
213.3
225.7
Total.
190.5
293.8
314.3
385.1
Outgo
Outgo
Investment abroad of Japanese capital....
101.0
215.8
398.5
530.0
Collection of capital invested in Japan..
1:9.7
99.0
99.3
176.7
Total.
290.6
314.8
497.8
756.7
Balencc.
-100.1 -31.0-183.5-371.6
Source:
Financial and Economic Annual of Japan.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
-33-
Table 12
Spocie and Bullion (Gold and Silver)
(Millions of yen)
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
Exports.
121.4
28.8
14.0
227.3
38.2
Imports.
0.9
0.2
0.9
80.7
9.7
Ba.lance..
+120.5
+28.6
+13.1
+146.7
+28.5
Source: Honthly Returns of the Forcign Trade
of Japan.
Table 13
Morchandise Trado (Including Trade of
Tuiwan, Chosen and Nanyo)
Exports.......
1,457.3
1,938.1
3,258.1
2,603.2
2,797.8
Imports.....
1,524.5
2,017.5
2,400.5
2,517.9
2,922.0
.Balancc.
-67.3
-85.4
-143.4
-14.7
-130.2
Source: Monthly Returns of tho Forcien Trade
of Japan.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-34
occasioned the announcoment of two protective measures:
(1) a greater measure of control of foreign oxchange by
the Government, and (2) the exportation of gold.
The new exchange control ordinance requires Govern-
mont pormits or licenses for all exchange transactions
covering the settlement of accounts for imports, the
acquisition of letters of credit, the disposal or
utilization of securities held abroad, and borroving
abroad in foreign currencies for the purpose of financ-
ing imports. The ordinance vas made retroactive to cover
exchange contracts entered into prior to January 8.
Horever, exchange contracts covering import orders for
less than 30,000 yen monthly are excluded.
Appa.rent ly
contracts for imports already landed or in transit prior
to January 8 are also excluded. The ordinance prohibits
the use of discount bills to finance imports; this pro-
vision applies to goods shipped after one week from the
effective date of the ordinance. Foreign exchange banks
are required to report all exchange transactions and
letters of credit issued.
Permission is necessary for
foreign exchange banks to handle remittances of checks,
bills and orders of paynent in amounts exceoding 10,000
yen. All importers who imported goods valued in excess
of 500, 000 yen during 1936 :ust submit reports on the
status of their accounts ored abroad.
The

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
The exchange ordinance mas terned by the Government
as an emergency measure designed to check the lowering of
the yen exchange and to curb speculative import orders.
The effects these regulations will have on the export
and iuport trade are not clear. The imposition of the new
rogulations constitutes, at least for the time being, a
distinctly disturbing factor to the import trade. Appli-
cations for exchangc permits are being granted slo-ly,
and traders are oxperiencing great difficulty in formulat-
ing plans for the future and in placing orders to cover
their legitimate present and future requiroments. Short-
ages are reported in the stocks of many commodities,
particularly cotton, vool, hoavy oils, and high grado
machinery and tools. Several trado organizations have
filed ener otic protests with the Governnent against the
delay in the issuance of oxchange permits. Importers of
cotton, wool, and pulp are in the midst of a fight vith
Government authorities ho vont to restrict their
purchases.
During February 1937 it vas announced that Japan
would shortly make gold shipnents abroad in order to
replenish her overseas funds and strengthen the exchange
valuc of the yen. Such shipnents during April are
expected to be about 50,000,000 yen.
The aold reserve of the Bank of Japan nom anounts to
over

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
-36-
over lo0 porcent of the note issue, and the reserves have
been incrcasing and are expected to continuo to increaso
at the rate of about 100, 000, 000 yen per year. It is
expected that the gold shipments will be nade largoly out
of the Bank of Japan's purchases of newly mined gold.
Obviously, a certain amount of gold can be exported
vithout undosirable offects, but of course it can be only
a temporary method of balancing Japan's international
accounts.
EA:JMJ:EB

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
May 3 1937 .
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
0. 1246
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
There are enclosed for the information of the
Embasey three copies of a confidential report of
894.51/493
April 20, 1937, entitled "Memorandum Concerning the
Pinencial and Economic Aspects of the Japanese Situation",
which was prepared in the Department.
894.51
Enelesure:
Three copies of
report.
m
F
T4.0.1V.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
49
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JUN 21 1937
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MR. WELLES
SA
DIVISION F
EUROPEAN AHAL
PICWE
JUN 29 1937
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2389.
Tokyo, April 29, 1937.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
FINANCE MINISTER'S SPEECH OF APRIL 20.
OFDE OF EDK  IE
894.01
6
JmN 25 1937
DEPARTHE 7 OF GIT E
ONI MID
COPIES SENT TO
CopuginFE (381)
C.N.I.ANDM.J.D
C3
394.51/494
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A
B
The Honorable
DIVISION OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of tatguN 2 9 1937
Washington.
53m
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
On April 20, 1937, the Japanese Minister of Finance,
Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, delivered to representatives of the bank
clearing houses throughout Japan, meeting in convention at
Tokyo, an address of important content. The address was the
94.51/490
subject of the Embassy's telegram No. 116, April 21, 6 p.m.
JUN 80 1937
FTLED
The Finance Minister declared to the bankers that:
(1) In the present juncture of domestic and
foreign affairs, perfection of the nation's defenses is
AC/
imperative.
ANT
5
(2) The civilian ministries also place large finan-
ASSV
pial demands upon the government.
(3) The inevitable large sise of the budget
shouta be faced with full recognition of the urgenoy of
the measures which it necessitates.
(4)

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
(4) To bear a huge budget a country must have
a huge production.
(5) From this it is obvious that for Japan economy
in expenditure is vital.
(6) The real remedy for rising prices is increased
production.
(7) Efficient production is large-scale production,
requiring large capital outlay and large output.
(8) Because Japan's raw material resources are few,
a wise importation policy is important.
(9) The profit motive is not, from the national
point of view, a sufficient guide to industry.
(10) The import exchange control which the Govern-
ment has enforced since January 1937 aimed at checking
speculative imports.
(11) This is not sufficient; the government must
extend the scope of this control to the point of favor-
ing certain imports on grounds of industrial necessity
and national interest, and restricting others.
(12) Manchuria is increasingly dependent on Japanese
financing.
(13) Cooperation to encourage investing in China
is urgently needed.
(14) The Government contemplates no radical inno-
vation of control of the banking institutions of the
country, but the bankers should voluntarily adjust their
investing to the national policy, and should not divert
useful funds to speculation in stocks.
A

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
A drop in prices on the stock exchange followed this
address, and Mr. Yuki's statements have been the subject
of widespread comment in the press. Editorial opinion has
been generally favorable. The tone of frankness, so different
from the Prime Minister's generalities on policy, is in it-
self welcomed. The Finance Minister is apparently educating
the business public to the necessity of greater import control
as a protection to Japan's monetary system, at the same time
pointing to the current need for money in a number of fields
in which the Government hopes for private investing. And it
appears that he has a good following. The public likes his
candid, concrete approach to an admittedly difficult problem.
1/
Herewith is enclosed a clipping of a newspaper article
reporting the Finance Minister's speech. In preparing this
despatch the Embassy has also made use of the report contained
in the ASAHI.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
Clipping "Broad Economic Control Inevitable,
States Yuki in Address To Bankers," JAPAN TIMES,
April 21, 1937.
800.2
CC:c:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
n
to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No. 2389, dated April 29,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Wednesday, April 21, 1937.
Broad Economic Control
Inevitable, States Yuki
In Address To Bankers
Expansion Of Productive Power Fundamental Way
To Cope With Advancing Commodity Prices;
Willing To Participate In Economic Parleys
Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, Minister of
the nation's productive power is the
Finance, gave more concrete and
fundamental measure to cope with
fuller explanation of the economic
advancing commodity prices. The
and financial policy of the Admin-
Minister of Fimance also gave a par-
Istration, and hinted that a broad
ticular stress to the importance of
economic control by the State would
expanding the foreign trade and of
be inevitable. in an address before
developing natural resources in for.
more than 350 bankers who gather-
eign landa.
ed at the 82nd joint annual meeting
Another most interesting point
of the All-Japan Clearing Houses,
which was held at the Bankers
emphasized by the Minister of Fin-
Club, Marunouchi, Tuesday.
ance was that the Government would
give careful consideration to the rela-
Unlike the addresses delivered by
tive position of demand and supply
Ministers of Finance on similar oc-
of various commodities in formulat-
casions in the past which were
ing the Budget Plan for 1938-39 and
usually characterised by mere for-
subsequent fiscal years, so that the
mality and conventionality, Mr.
executlon of Government budget may
Yaki's address was full of initiative
not exert undesirable influences over
and force, it being evident that the
the international balance and com-
Minister of Finance was attempting
modity prices. Under this plan, Mr.
to explain in detall and in concrete
Yuki maid, he wculd ask all the de-
'manner the economic and financial
partments of the Government here
policy of the Government and to give
after to draft reports of estimates of
the banking circles a clear view of
demand and supply of commodities
the course that may be taken. by
involved in their spending program
the present Administration in the
Some of the salient points of the
future.
address given by the Minister of
After dealing with various import-
Finance may be listed as followe:
ant qwestions, the Minister of Fin-
"The financlal and economic policy
anoe emphasised that all the econo-
of the Government is aimed of
mio foroes of the mation should be
drected synthetically towards the
of the nation. In carrying this
fuller attainment of welfare of the
whole of the State. In referrine to
the question of commodity prioes.
try. We must sive oareful thew
Mr. Tuki dechared that expanelon of
(Continued en.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
2
endeavor have no ide af restrictins
questions ness operatlon orbnkin institu-
by expandins our for- tions by drastic control measures all
to make
dustrialists endeev
oad. by promoting emigration and
their primary functions.
such enterprises as
by the country today
respect to investments in Manchou-
operate their business
"There are mmple rooms for us to
kuo, I fully recognize the fact that
quire raw material resources in the
south and wost and all over the
to direct effortq develop raw
material resourges in Pareign lands in
expand our foreign trade and to ac-
world. It would be necessary for us
banks indaapan hereafter for its
bankers have made earnest endea-
vors in this direction. I must sav
that Manchoukuo depends more on
various ecenomle undertakings.
"Regarding investments in China, I
point before they invest
purposes of selfish pronte be
case of bankers, I must 
they should select carefull
enterprises from the natiom
basis of national welfare.
financial accommodation.
cal benefit. However, it is at the
strong powey in the yackground of
a peaceful manner and for recipro-
same time nebessary for us to have
of this question will grow hereafter,
and ask hankers for their due con-
wish to emphasize that importance
sideration to this fact.
commodity price movements,am
of the vlew that the Government
should adopt some measures besides
"In connection with the contro
our peaceful advance. Unless we
"It is  undesirable that banks
impossible to bring about any de-
have strong power within, it would be
supply funds for unsound specula-
tive trading on the stock market. I
restrictions on importation of
classes of commodities. Ials
sirable results.
"Looking into thorpreveiling inter-
urge that banks should be very
careful n anancing speculative trad-
and supply of commoditie
to give due considération
mational econonio conditions, it is
ing, so that the bitter experiences
in the Government appropriat
in the at maot be repeated in
formulating the Budget pla
the financial circles. It is hardly
1938-39 and subsequent flscal
tion. I a
allef that it is im-
tatey that a further
so that the execution of the
ntain and promote
sy and cheap
Budget may not bring about und
mations o
ly relaltens between
of the Gover
money
Adencyrs destrable in view
anlicy for the
able repercussions on the 
internationai balance and comm
mic isol
promotn of
prices. All departments of the
and therefore,
wdst pay constant
sorptica and
er factors. How-
ernment shall be asked for
and careful attention to ruture de-
ever, the 
nent has no inten-
estimates of demand-supply ritu
velopments of
theinternational
tion to push its cheap money policy
in various commodity markets
trade relations.
pan ahpuld be
diareg
the prevalling mono-
they submit their demand for
willing to participgte in any nterna-
tary situation. The policy of the
priations.
tional conferenoes that may be held
Government' is to lower the money
hereafter with a view to coperate
rates gradually and naturnlly.
with other nation and to ostain the
"The "Administration has been
fuller undorstandins by netions on
paying most careful thoughts to the
the basis of our fhancial and econo-
currency policy. I assure you thu?
mic policy.
the Government will not make at-
"Various plans are being formulated
tempt to adopt any measures tha!
in Manchoukud, and we must draft
may be detrimental to the founda-
concrete measures and carry them
tion of the existing currency sys-
out in line with the bellef that solu-
tem.
"Together with the people, the
tion of economio questions in Man-
choukuo would subsequently solve
Government is grealy concerned
economic questions which we are
over the advanding tendency of com-
faced with. Regarding the relations
modity prices. (If is my belief that
between China and thie country. I
the fundamental memsures for the
molution of this question is to re-
am of the belief that both nations
whould come to know that their cloaer
plenish the supplies of commodi-
tles by increasinthe productive
mence will after all be for
power of the natton. And for the
expansion of thaj/produative faciities.
we need ample unds d more raw
colntry, Where natural resources are
poor. Under thess circumstances, it
would be necessary to give perferen-
tal treatment to certain lines of in-

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.51/
841.5151/677
tel #201 11am
SEE
FOR
%
) DATED ....May..27,.1937.
TO
NAME
1-1127
OPO
495
Great Britain
REGARDING: Shipment by Bank of Janan of three lots of
gold to the United States
Second and probably third lot to be sold
to Yokohama Specia Bank for use of
exchange operations in support of yen.
ds
495

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
711.9411/24
Tel.#737-noon
SEE
FOR
894.51/496
France
Bullitt
June 5,1937.
FROM
) DATED
TAI11
NAME
1-1127
GPO
REGARDING:
Japanese economic and financial situation: This
subject was discussed during conversat ion in Paris
between Kung and Ambassador Bullitt.
fpg

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
KLP
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokyo
This telEgram must bE
closely paraphrasEd bE-
Dated JunE 14, 1937.
forE bEing communicated to
anyonE.(a)1-13
FROM
Rec'd. 8:50 a.m.
OFFICE OF ECONNAG ADVISER
6Jara
JUN 14 1937
Secretary of StatE,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
#1.1bwed
Washington.
y
Division of
JUN 1 6 1937
894.51
158, JunE 14, 6 p.m.
epartm
FOR TE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
4.51/497
OnE. (Gray) According to DomEi rEport appEaring
today in local prEss, financial and businEss circles
generally fear that Finance Ministry "must Eventually
Enforce" somE system of drastic financial control together
with managed Economy to mEet thE budgEt problem causEd by
thE increasE in military appropriations and thE nEcEssity
of raising a largE amount for increased industrial
produc ti on. End Gray)
Two. In our opinion any attempt at present to
894.5151/30
describE thE measures which, as sEt forth in our number 138
FILED
of May 28, are probably under contemplation, is conjectural.
However, it is not unlikely that the appearancE at this
timE of thE prEss rEport under referencE from a sEmi-
official sourcE may bE intended by the Government to place
upon thE military Elements rEsponsibility for contemplated
inability of Governmint, bEcausE of hEavy military budget,
to implEment mEasures for improvement in national Economy.
F/G
GREW
CSB

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
PARTIAL PARAPHHASE OF THLRORAM RECEIVED.
FROM:
American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
June 14, 1937, 6 p.m.
NO.:
158
FOR SECRETARY MORGENTHAU.
According to Domei report appearing today in local
press, financial and vusiness circles generally fear
that Finance Winistry "must oventually enforce" some
ystem of drastic financial control together with
managed economy to moet the budget problem caused by
the inorease in military appropriations and the necessity
of raising a large mmount for inoreased incustriel pro-
duotion.
It is the opinicn of the Embaeey that any attempt
at present to describe the measures which are probably
under coutemplation would be conjectural; these measures
wore set forth in our tolegram Wo. 138 of May 28.
It may bo, however, that the appeerance at this time of
the press report referred to above from a memi-official
souroe may have beon initiated by the Government in order
to plave upon the military the responsibility for contem-
plated inability of the Covernment to implement measures
for iaprovoment in national sconomy becmuse of the heavy
military budget.
GREW.
SA:LWW

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.89)
Jun 14, 1937.
The Seoretary of state presents his pompliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
enoloses six copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 158
of June 14, 1937, from the Amerioan mbassy, Tokyo.
894.51/497
894.51/497
Ad wy of
the afraed orig-
laal.
F/FG

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2439.
Tokyo, May 26, 1937.
SUBJECT: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC MEMORANDUM.
894.51
OEPAREN ATE
1937 U 2M 1 53
AND PORDS
OC NOISINIO
894.51/498
OFFICE OF EDOROMNG ADVISER
Division
EPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 1 6 1937
The Honorable
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
493
The Embassy has received instruction No. 1246, May
3, l937, and has read with interest the enclosure, entitled
"Memorandum Concerning the Financial and Economic Aspects
of the Japanese Situation." The memorandum is being
JUN 21 1937
studied, and the Embassy's comments will be prepared and
FILED
forwarded in due course.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
851.
CC:g
F/G

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.76)
FAR FATH
AT
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
B
WASHINGTON, D. C.
APR 15 1937
10 apul, 1937
DIVIDIUN OF
894.
ECOROS
Ducl
Deae α
Capy 
I trrewtn.
894.5
69
hansla
9
Stuvstedr
How
Gy
babey
Sml,
Pucli

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
Fon papee
wnr
Fudasental Financial Policy
of Hayashi Cabinet Outlined
by Finance Minister Yuki.
Policy Determined at Special Cabinet Meeting.
Tokyo, April 3 (Domei)-A special cabinet mseting was held yesterday
at 2:30 in the afternoon at the of: icial residence of the Presier, where Pi-
nenee Minister Yuki outlined his financial policy and secured the approval of
the other ministers present.
Rough Outline of Fundamental Policy.
Basis of Appropriation.
For national welfare and for national security wich necessitated ex-
pansion of armaments, an increased budget was unavoidable. For the nation to
sttstand the added burden, steps must be taken to promot the increase of pro-
duction capacity and expansion of trade. In other words, the udget should be
in direct proportion to the nation's capacity to pay.
894.51/499
Adjustment of Finances.
As early as possible, means must be considered for reorganizing cen-
tral and related provincial financial conditions.
Hatlomel Debt. Since there is no immediate necessity for reorganising
the national debt situation, no steps need be taken either legally or adminis-
tratively.
oney Rate. Lower interest rates are desired, but there is no inten-
tion of bringing this about through force.
Srchange. Roughly, the present exciange rate with England, of ll shil-
linge 2 pence, will be maintained.
Bx ort and Ispart Trade. At the present time it is inpossible to avoid
exsess of imports over exports, but with the expa sion of national production, it
is hoped that the people will voluntarily buy only the very necessary imported
articles, thus eveatually bringing about a favorable trade balance.
hipments of Gold.
The shipment of species abroad will continue through necessity in the fu-
ture, but precaution will be taken to see that the currency will not be thereby
devalnated.
Cost of Living.
The high cost of living brought about through international conditions, of
sourss, eanmot be avoided, but every effort will be expended to reduce high costs
t regalate the relation beteeen supply and desand.
F
Matiemel wealth will be expaaded as mach as pessible to sret the espected
mee tn mupply and production.
G

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..793.94/9092
Tel#237.7pm
FOR
FROM ..Japan
Grew
) DATED ....Ju1y..30.1937
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.5
Passage of bill to appropriate 96,800,000 yen for expenses
REGARDING:
of North China incident. This sum is in addition to
10,l000,000 which the cabinet previously allotted. The press
states that a further large appropriate will be requested soon.
The present session of Diet continues willing to cooperate withr
the government and to support the policy toward China.
00
FRG.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
ML
GRAY
Tokyo
Datcd July 30, 1937
Recid 9:34 a. m.
897.51
Secretary cf State
Weshington
237, Ju1y 30, 7 p. m.
One. In a pross conforencc this morning Kawai, the
Foreign Offico upokesman, ussertoc that the Japaneso army
has conquorod Peiping end thet the ilitary phaso is over.
793.
In responso t: quesuions he montienod as entirely possible
a movemont by the inhabitants of the Poiping-Tientsin croa
9
for tho ostablishmont of sonc poece presorvation organiza-
tion which might load to a movement for antonomy. Ho ro-
00
forred to lianchuria following the l931 incident and said
26
that many movements for antonomy spontancously sprang up
among the inhebitants which movemonts the Japanese finally
came to assist bocauso of Chinoso inexporionco in govorn-
ment. Eavei stated that in a sinilar way Japanose author-
ities in the Poiping-Tiontsin area probably will be approach
ed and that thoy porhaps will have to help.
Two. The spokosman gave out a long propared statement
to pleec blamo for the Tiontsin fighting on tho Chinoso and
to show that buildings fired upon by the Japanoso woro
buildings from which tho Chinoso had openod fire.
Three.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
ML
-2- Ju1y 30, 1937 9:34 a. m. Tokyo #237
Throo. July 29 tho Japanosc Dict reccivod and passed
without discussion a bill to appropriato 96,800,000 yon for
oxponses of tho North China incidont. This sum is in addi-
tion to 10,100,O00 which tho Cabinct proviously allotted
for the samc purposo from an availablo rosorve. Tho pross
statos that a further largo appropriation will be requosted
soon.
 Tho prosont sossion of tho Dict continuos willing to
cooporato with tho Govornmont and to support tho policy to-
ward China.
Ropoated to Nanking.
CREW
KLP:RR

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
15371
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Division of
OF THELIVED
FAR EASTERY AFFAIRS
UNITEDDSPATETMENTAMERICATE
AUG1937
Departulent of State
1937 AUG 9 PM 12 36
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OFTOkyO, July 24, 1937.
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
No. 2513.
SUBJECT: JAPANESE BUDGET, APRIL 1, 1937 TO MARCH 31, 1938.
894.51
2 to teasury (1for
ACIC
to Commerced
Emean f Bucl get)
RECORDING DESK
FILE - WHB
Cen
ACpC
EBC
AUG 13 1937
AUG13
OFFICE OF THE AVER N
894.51/501
INERN 
O0CT 1 2 1937R
DEPARTMENT or 
FILED
The Honorable
8 1937
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
By Imperial Ordinance (enclosure 1) of March 30,
1937, the Japanese Government promulgated its budget
for the 1937-1938 fiscal year. It had been approved by
the House of Peers on March 8 and by the House of Repre-
F/AA
sentatives on March 29. The Japanese fiscal year begins
on April 1 and ends on March 31, and consequently this
1-7/
budget is now in effect. The enclosures herewith comprise
a

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
a compilation made by the Embassy from the Japanese text.
The general budget (enclosure 2) authorizes expendi-
tures to a total of ¥ 2,813,937,971, and the supplementary
budget and other accounts swell that figure to approximately
three billion yen. General budget totals for recent years
are as follows. (the first three being settled account figures,
not budget estimates):
1931-1932
1,476 million yen
1932-1933
1,950
n
n
1933-1934
2,254
n
n
1934-1935
2,163
n
n
1935-1936
2,215
n
n
1936-1937
2,307
n
n
1937-1938
2,814
n
n
This year's figure is a 22 per cent increase over last
year's.
Although the general budget is balanced at ¥2,813,937,971,
the revenue side is brought up to that figure only by auth-
orization of public loans in the sum of ¥770,823,677. This
is 27 per cent of the total general budget.
The general budget includes most items of current ex-
penditure. It is divided, both on the revenue and dis-
bursement sides, into ordinary and extraordinary items.
Those that go on repeating year after year are ordinary,
those that might be expected not to are extraordinary,
in theory. Other accounts provide for other projectsr
N
FOR
long-time investment value. In origin, at least, some
suoh distinctions governed; but at the present time it
often difficult to explain on logical grounds the presenee
of a particular item in a given category. Concealment
perhaps one motive for the confusion.
The

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The supplementary budget (enclosure 3) probably grew
out of the use of revenue which was considered in some way
separate from other revenue, but at the present time it has
no particular significance. This year's supplementary
budget amounts to ¥ 58,197,902; of that 89 per cent or
¥ 51,627,902 is to be financed by borrowing.
The extra budget (enclosure 4) is, practically through-
out, authorization for projects which will require disburse-
ments over a period of years. The extra budget authorizes
the Department of Finance to make contracts, outside of and
in addition to the general and supplementary budgets, for the
projects stipulated. Where a stated payment is made during
the year 1937-1938 under such contracts, this year's total
of ¥ 2,813,937,971 plus ¥ 58,197,902 wil1 be thereby augmented.
The creation of credit by some means, to cover the addition-
al amount, is to be expected.
Water works, river improvements, and the like
legitimately under this method of accounting; but some of
BLICATION
this year's items in the extra budget are not so sound.
For example (page 5, enclosure 4), the army is authorized
by the extra budget to contract to pay in the succeeding
year for some ¥ 26,000,000 of ordinary military supplies
and construction. Most of the appropriations stipulate
payment over a number of years, as for example in sub-
sidies, and either allow or specifically call for a first
payment during this year. The disbursements which the
extra budget specifically designates to be made in this
year amount to approximately ¥ 42,000,000; others are
permissively authorized for the present fiscal year.
The

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
The table of continuing expenditure (enclosure 5)
is a revision of the accounts of various projects com-
menced in the past and continuing over a period of years.
In this table the budget estimates of earlier years are
year by year displaced by the exact closed account figures
as they become known; new legislation affecting future
disbursement schedules is also incorporated. The table is
a recapitulation, useful for reference, of long-time costs
of particular projects. It is not in itself legislative
authority for current expenditures.
The special accounts budget (enclosure 6) governs
certain accounts each of which is (or attempts to be)
self-balancing, with some source of income other than
government appropriations (e.g., the tobacco monopoly,
government insurance, the government railways). Sub-
ordinate to the special accounts budget is the table
(enclosure 7) of continuing expenditures relating to the
contained special accounts, constructed as a recapitula-
tion, similarly to the above mentioned enclosure 5.
In this year's budget of the various special ac-
counts it is to be observed that, to balance three of them
(page 4), the government is advancing ¥ 143,000,000
through public loans. Adding together the items of the
1937-l938 budget which are authorized to be financed by
borrowing we therefore have:
￥770,823,677
51,637,902
143,000,000
￥ 965,451,579
Financing

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Financing of expenditures authorized by the special budget
will also entail borrowing of one form or another.
The division of appropriations among the various
departments of the Government as set down in the general
budget (page 3, enclosure 2) is as follows: It should
be borne in mind that the Japanese system of accounting
debits to the Department of Finance a large number of
heavy expenditures which are in fact for the benefit of other
departments:
Civil list
¥4,500,000
Foreign Affairs
33,572,782
Home Affairs
261,051,680
Finance
544,896,577
Army
727,965,340
Navy
681,653,616
Justice
42,108,782
Education
144,484,380
Agriculture and
Forestry
115,684,278
Commerce and
Industry
26,814,214
Communications
207,447,021
Overseas Affairs
23,759,301
Total
￥2,813,937,971
Proceeding now to the individual appropriations and
items of revenue, a number are worthy of note as showing
the elusiveness of items having to do with the cost of the
national program being pursued by Japan in China.)
First,
in the general budget (enclosure 2):
"Manchukuo's" contribution (item (9), page 7) to the
Japanese budget for national defense in Manchuria is
￥19,500,000.
The Department of Finance is repaid ¥ 3,845,6l6 for a
bad Chinese debt (item (6), page 25).
¥20,000,000

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
¥ 20,000,000 is appropriated as payment to the South
Manchuria Railway on account of stock owned by the Govern-
ment (item (31), page 27).
The Department of Finance is charged with all sorts of
funds that often find a military use. Item (15), page 12,
names two reserve funds, a first reserve of ¥ 8,000,000 and
a second of ¥ 15,000,000. From this 1atter ¥ 15,000,000,
¥ 10,000,000 has already been allotted to the army in con-
nection with the present North China complications. Item
(34), page 27, mentions another fund, a Manchurian affair
first reserve of ¥ 2,000,000.
The 1937-1938 sum directly allotted to "Manchurian
affair" expenses is ¥ 269,613,347 (item (14), page 28).
Total appropriations direct to the army are $ 727,965,340,
direct to the navy ¥ 681,653,616 (page 3). The appropria-
tion for armament improvement (item (16), page 28) is
¥ 34,968,306, which in itself exceeds the administrative
cost of operating the offices of all the Government
departments and the offices of all the prefectures.
Page 41, item (3), enclosure 2, appropriates
¥ 4,764,609 for emigration of colonists to Manchuria.
Subsidies are similarly scattered throughout the
various budgets. The Embassy refers to the following
subsidy items among others (reference is to enclosure 2
unless otherwise stated): communications, page 39, item (1);
shipping, page 39, item 4, and page 40, 9 and (10), extra
budget (enclosure 4) pages 5, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16;
aviation

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
aviation, page 40, items 11 and (13), and extra budget
(enclosure 4) pages 14 and 16; import indemnification,
page 37, item (1) 5; oi1, page 37, item (2) 3 and 4,
supplementary budget (enclosure 3) page 5, item (25),
extra budget (enclosure 4) page 13; iron and steel,
page 37, item (9); other, page 37, items (3) to (10).
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
nmay
Lugue
Eugene H. Dooman,
Counselor of Embassy.
851
CC:C
Enclosure:
Compilation based on the Japanese budget text
as follows:
1. Japanese Imperial Ordinance of March 30, 1937,
promulgating the 1937-1938 budget.
2. General budget.
3. Supplementary budget.
4. Extra budget.
5. Table of continuing expenditure.
6. Special accounts budget.
7. Table of special accounts continuing expenditure.
Copy to Embassy, London;
n
n
n
Peiping;
n
n
n
Moscow.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure
to despatch
No2513  4uly 24,1937 from the
IMPERIAL ORDINANCLy at Tokye:
Relating to the Budget Estimate
for Fiscal Year 1937-38
(from the Official Gazette
of March 30, 1937)
"We sanction the general budget estimate of revenue
and expenditure for the fiscal year 1937-38 and the special
account budget of revenue and expenditure for the same
fiscal year, which were approved by the Imperial Diet,
and cause the same promulgated herewith."
March 30, 1937.
Imperial Sign Manual and Imperial Seal
Countersigned by
Senjuro Hayashi,Prime Minister
and Minister for Education
Tatsunosuke Yemazaki, Minister
for Agriculture and Forestry
Count Hideo Kodama, Minister
for Communications
Mitsumasa Yonai, Minister for Navy
Suyehiko Shiono, Minister for
Justice
Takuo Godo, Minister for Commerce
and Industry and Minister for
Railways.
Kakichi Kawarada, Minister for
Home Affairs
Toyotaro Yuki, Minister for Finance
Gen Sugiyama, Minister for Army
Naotake Sato, Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
BUDGET.
Article 1. The total amount of revenue and expenditure
for the fiscal year 1937-38 is fixed as ¥2,813,937,971
each. The amount of each item of revenue and expendi-
ture shall be as apportioned in the budget esti-
mate (annexed Table A).
Article 2. The items of expenditure mentioned in the
annexed Table B (Continuing Expenditure) are
those to be disbursed in and after the fiscal year
1937-38 as continuing expenditure. In some of those
items the total amount of expenditure previously
fixed and the amount of yearly disbursement are re-
vised or reassessed.
Article 3.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Article 3. In respect of the items of expenditure
mentioned in the annexed Table C, which are in-
cluded in the aforementioned expenditure estimate,
the balance of the expenditure remaining on hand at
the end of the current fiscal year may be carried over
for use in the ensuing fiscal year, i.e. 1938-39 fiscal
year.
Article 4. The highest amount(meximum limit) of the
Treasury Notes to be issued and borrowings to be made
in accordance with the rules of Article 6 of the Law
of Account shall be ¥500,000,000 in al1 for the
1937-38 fiscal year.
Article 5. The amount of expenditure for which an agree-
ment running over the current and the ensuing fiscal
year may be made according to the rule of Article
II of the Law of Account shall be ¥4,000,000 for
the 1937-38 fiscal year.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
2 to deopatah
TABLE A
Enclosure No
No 2513 of guy 24, 1937 rh
Embassy at Tokyo.
BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 1937-1938.
The general budget estimate for the fiscal year
1937-38 (Apri1 1, 1937, to March 31, 1938) as approved
by the Imperial Diet at the last session amounts to
¥2,813,937,971, in both revenue and expenditure,
adding to whioh the supplementary appropriations
amounting to ¥58,197,902 for each the total comes up
to ¥2,872,135,873. The aforementioned figures are all
for general account only, and do not cover the special
account (or special budget). (For details of the budget
figures see the table given elsewhere, in which are
given figures for each item of revenue and expenditure;
The revenue is composed of ordinary revenue amounting
to ¥1,814,696,044 and extraordinary revenue amounting to
999,241,927. Again the expenditure is divided into
ordinary expenditure and extraordinary expenditure
amounting to ¥1,462,712,034 and ¥1,351,225,937 respectively,
or a total of ¥2,813,937,971. Compared with the previous
year's budget it shows an increase of ¥292,125,493 in
revenue and that of ¥402,497,562 in expenditure (a gain
of ¥466,561,678 and ¥502,420,684 respectively when com-
pared with the actual working budget of last year), as
shown below in a tabular form:---
Revenue

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Revenue
1937-38fiscal
Previous fiscal year
year budget
budget
figures
estimate
actual working
Ordinary ¥1,814,696,044
¥1,357,794,989 ¥1,450,059,036
Extra-
ordinary
999,241,927
1,222,215,391
855,515,159
Total....
2,872,135,873
2,580,010,380
2,305,574,195
Expenditure
Ordinary ¥1,462,712,034
¥1,371,801,703 ¥1,360,732,377
Extra-
ordinary
1,351,225,937
1,039,638,706
950,784,910
Total....
2,813,937,971
2,411,440,409
2,311,517,287
N.B. Figures mentioned here are all for the general account
only, and do not cover the special account.
Note:--
The general budget estimate for the fiscal year l937-38,
originally framed at the hand of the Hirota cabinet (which re-
signed on January 23, 1937) and presented to the Imperial Diet
(70th session), was withdrawn by the Government on February 3,
upon the coming to power of the succeeding ministry (Hayashi
cabinet). The budget was then again presented to the Diet by
the new ministry on February 15. The budget received amend-
ments at the hand of the new ministry, the amount thereof
having been reduced to ¥2,813,937,971 for both revenue and
expenditure as against ¥3,041,000,000 each of the original
estimate. The emended budget was approved by the House of
Representatives on March 8 and then by the House of Peers om
March 29, it having been made public in an extra issue of
the official gazette on March 30. Appended is a table showing
the

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
the difference in the figures of the expenditure (for
general account only) between the original and amended
estimates:----
Amended budget estimate
Original budget estimate
(Yuki budget)
(Baba budget)
Civil list
¥4,500,000
¥4,500,000
Foreign Affairs
33,572,782
36,000,000
Home Affairs
261,051,680
423,000,000
Finance
544,896,577
572,000,000
Army
727,965,340
728,000,000
Navy
681,653,616
681,000,000
Justice
42,108,782
43,000,000
Education
144,484,380
146,000,000
Agriculture
&Forestry
115,684,278
126,000,000
Commerce &
Industry
26,814,214
42,000,000
Communications
207,447,021
211,000,000
Overseas Affairs
23,759,301
24,000,000
Total ---
2,813,937,971
3,041,000,000

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
General Budget
Revenue
Ordinary Revenue
(I) Taxes and Duties:
(¥1,250,722,354)
Income tax
429,524,387
2.
Land tax
58,760,697
3.
Business profit tax
73,475,167
Capital interest tax
29,176,704
Tax on corporation capital
15,454,980
6.
Succession tax
33,475,676
7.
Mining duty
5,859,028
8.
Foreign currency loan special
2,793,739
tax
Saké distilling tax
235,210,774
10. Aerated water tar
4,139,591
1l. Sugar excise.
98,743,607
12. Tertile fabrics consumption
tax
43,040,849
13. Volatile oil tax
14,913,855
14. Exchange (Bourse) tax
19,279,858
15. Tax on transfer of negotiable
securities (turnover tax).
4,624,717
16. Customs duty
179,300,612
17. Tonnage dues
2,948,119
Total
¥1,250,722,354
(2)
Stamp duty receipts
¥86,618,171
(3)
Government undertakings an-d
Government-owned property re-
venue
324,623,804
1.
Forestry revenue
45,480,033
2.
Monopoly bureau revenue
233,968,879
3.
Printing bureau
2,956,911
4.
Government Army woolen.
factory revenue.
5,826
5.
Naval arsenal fund revenue.
1,240,000
6.
Naval fuel factory
1n
211,293
7.
Rental for Government-owned
properties
552,508
8.
Dividend revenue.
28,958,902
Prison revenue
11,249,512.
Total
¥324,623,804
(4) Contribution due from Special
Account for post.telegraph,
telephone. etc.
81,000,000
(5) Contribution due from Bank of Japan 13,087,561
¥51,148,847
1.
License fees and other fees.
739,553
2.
Penal fines and confiscated
money
2,478,116
3. Indemnities and penalties.
433,696
4.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
Ordinary Revenue (Continued)
(6) Miscellaneous Receipts(Continued)
4. Customs house miscellaneous
receipts
1,608,814
5. Contribution under Pension Law.
3,922,160
6. Shares under Pension Law .
2,046,333
7. Special account's share in pension
funds
26,107,352
8. Contribution by students of mili-
tary preparatory school studying
at their own expenses
163,440
9. Ogasawara (Bonin) Island local
revenue
933
10. Interest revenue
159,572
11. Contribution by horse racing asso-
ciations
8,766,837
12. Miscellaneous receipts
4,722,041
Total
¥51,148,847
(7) Transfer from Education Improvement
and Agrarian Development Funds
(Special Accounts)
￥7,495,307
Total Ordinary Revenue
¥1,814,696,044
Extraordinary Revenue
(I) Sale of Government properties:
(6,495,669)
1. Lands sold.
355,458
2. Articles sold
5,895,464
3. Live-stock sold
244,747
Total
6,495,669
(2) Miscellaneous Revenue:
(40,992,218)
1. Revenue accruing from construct-
ion and repair work undertaken by
Government factories or workshops
for public
1,408,029
2.
Revenue accruing from investiga-
tions or researches undertaken by
Government for public
112,185
3. Money returned
548,794
4.
Share in the proceeds of fur-seals'
84,221
5. Government loans made under Earth-
quake bill adjustment law re-
funded.
397,117
6

=== Page 158 === (confidence 1.00)
6
(2) Miscellaneous Revenue(Continued)
6. Post-quake reconstruction and re-
habilitation work liquidation funds
reimbursed....
49,052
7. Earthquake disaster relief loans re-
imbursed
3,577,242
8. Contribution to national debt amor-
tisation funds.....
5,000
9. Contribution to military funds
5,000
10. Contribution due from South Manchuria
Railway Company....
1,475,971
11. Contribution due from Japan Iron Foundry
Company.
1,229,327
12. Transfer from Chinese Cultural undertaking
fund special account
1,000,000
13. Transfer from Special Account for cultural
undertaking in China ...
25,882,500
14. Transfer from Special Account for raw silk
price equilibration arrangements
5,117,780
15. Revenue acoruing from reindemnification for
losses in connection with funds advanced
to medium and small commercial and indus-
trial enterprises
100,000
Total
40,992,218
(3) Contribution by public corporations to public
work funds (harbor repair and improvement
fund)
7,122,439
(4) Public corporations' share in public work
expenditure:
(10,645,966)
1. Ditto in river improvement expenditure..
6,450,655
2. Ditto in harbor construction and arrange-
ment expenditure
870,425
3. Ditto in road improvement expenditure.
3,324,886
Total
10,645,966
(5) Scientific researoh encouragement fund
received:
(26,000)
1. Donation from Imperial Court
12,000
2. Contribution by public
14,000
Total
26,000
(6) Transfer from Special Account:
(8,875,368)
1. Transfer from national property adjust-
ment fund special account ....
4,782,017
2. Ditto from health insurance special account. 179,663
3. Ditto from Monopoly Bureau special account. 5ll,443
4. Ditto from Mint special accountlfund .dept.) 1,O00,000
5. Ditto from Treasury deposit department
special account
150,000
6. Ditto from Printing Bureau special account
80,000
7. Ditto from Army woolen factory special
account.
63,889
8. Ditto from schools and libraries special
account (fund department)
153,090

=== Page 159 === (confidence 1.00)
(6) Transfer from Special Account(Continued)
9. Ditto from Communication business
special account(post,telegraph,
telephone,etc.)....
1,887, 216
10. Ditto from industrial life in-
surance special account
188,050
Total
8,875,368
(7) Contribution due from insurance com-
panies
3,162,652
(8) Export indemnification revenue.
1,202,000
(9) Manchukuo's share in Manchoukuo national
defence expenditure received
19,500,000
(10) Temporary profit-tax revenue.
58,522,658
(11) Export control-tax revenue.
3,983,280
(12) Receipts from special account:
(67,890,000)
1. Receipts from Treasury deposit
department special account.
6,000,000
2. Receipts from Kwantung Bureau
special account.
1,500,000
3. Receipts from Communication business
(post,telegraph, telephone,etc.)
special account...
12,640,000
4. Receipts from Imperial railway
special account...
30,000,000
5. Receipts from Chosen Government-
General special account
9,450,000
6. Receipts from Taiwan Government-
General special account
5,250,000
7. Receipts from Karafuto office
special account
1,950,000
8. Receipts from South Sea Islands
Office special account
1,100,000
Total
67,890,000
(13) Loans:
(770,823,677)
1. Earthquake disaster adjustment
loan and borrowings from other
sources .....
7,353,733
2. Road loan and borrowings from
other sources.....
10,598,771
3. Manchurian affair loan and borrow-
ings from other sources...
265,468,578
4. Revenue replenishment loan and
borrowings from other sources.... 487,402,595
Total
770,823,677
Total extraordinary revenue
999,241,927
Grand Total (Revenue)
.2,813,937,971

=== Page 160 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-
Expenditure
Ordinary Expenditure (By Departments)
Civil List
4,500,000
Department of Foreign Affairs:
(Total
¥17,935,036)
(I) Foreign Affairs Department proper:
3,509,574
1. Salaries
545,371
2. Office expenses.
734,957
3. Salaries for foreign employes.
40,000
4. Telegraph tolls
350,405
5. Entertainment expenses
2,000
6. Share in international expenses.
34,311
7. Subscription to various organs in the
League of Nations
268,598
8. Allowances to students sent abroad to
study
93,472
9. Secret funds
1,482,460
Total
3,509,574
(2) Foreign Missions:
(13,440,914)
1. Salaries
5,639,920
2. Office expenses.
3,089,595
3. Travelling expenses.
1,917,242
4. Salaries for foreign employes
40,849
5. Judicial and registry expenses.
51,710
6. Accommodation expenses
201,940
7. Rental (land and buildings)
1,249,715
8. Telegraph tolls.
933,595
9. Entertainment expenses
310,348
Total
13,440,914
(3) For Protection and Control of Japanese
residents abroad:
(870,121)
1. Salaries
186,972
2. Office expenses
683,149
Total
870,121
(4) Miscellaneous outlays (unclassified)..
114,427
Total for Foreign Affairs Department
17,935,036
Department of Home Affairs:
(Total
(¥60,613,880)
(I) Grand Shrine expenses.
230,000
(2) Government and national shrines expen-
diture inol. festival expenses, offer-
ings, etc.....
1,021,360
(3)

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
(3) Home Department proper:
(985,359)
1. Salaries
417,239
2. Office expenses
527,118
3. Share in international expenses.
9,630
4. Secret funds
31,282
Total
985,359
(4) Social Affairs Bureau (Salaries and
office expenses)
534,662
(5) Japanese office in the International
Labor Organ.
117,996
(6) Juvenile Reformatory maintained by the
State (Salaries and office expenses)..
45,648
(7) Home for Invalid Soldiers (Salaries,
office expenses and expenses for in-
mates)
113,159
(8) Police Officers Training Institute (Sala-
ries and office expenses)
29,878
(9) Hygienic Laboratory (Salaries and office
expenses)
171,695
(10) Aliment Research Institute (Salaries and
office expenses)..
85,930
(11) Public Sanatorium (Salaries and office ex-
penses)..
15,000
(12) State Sanatoria for Tuberculosis (Salaries,
office expenses and expenses for patients).2l0,196
(13) State Sanatorium for Lepers (Salaries, office
expenses and expenses for inmates).......
669,421
(14) Expenses on account of Medical Practitioners
and Pharmaceutists Examination (Salaries,
office expenses, etc.)
28,599
(15) Prefectural Government Offices:
(11,583,369)
1. Salaries
7,755,032
2. Office expenses.
3,556,329
3. Protection and relief of "Ainus" or
Hokkaido natives...
37,858
4. Expenses in connection with Imperial
visits to Hokkaido ....
76,853
5. Local administrative expenses for Oga-
sawara (Bonin) Islands.
56,034
6. Policing expenses for Izu Islands.
19,214
7. Secret funds
82,049
Total
11,583,369
16.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 1.00)
Department of Home Affairs
10
(Contimued)
210,000
(16) Local finances adjustment expenses ...
.2eo,000,'000
(17)Military conscription expenses
2,013,770
(18)Military relief expenses
3,846,339
(19) Police expense joint payment
23,689,198
(20) Subsidies and subventions to local
governments, etc.
11,289,270
(21) Treasury defrayment for health insurance
(Treasury's share in health insurance ex-
penses)
2,778,571
(22) Other miscellaneous expenses
147,152
Total for Home Affairs Department
160,613,880
Department of Finance:
(Total
¥481,894,434)
(I) Finance Department proper.
1,348,300
1. Salaries
581,602
2. Office expenses
739,754
3. Share in international expenses
1,062
4. Custom duty investigation committee
expenses
25,882
Total
1,348,300
(2) Cabinet Expenditure:
(1,602,169)
1. Salaries
421,915
2. Office expenses
878,586
3. Prizes and awards
101,612
4. Higher civil service examination
expenses ..
60,750
5. Expenses for civil officials discipli-
nary punishment
1,570
6. Expenditure for Higher Civil Officials
Status Investigation Committee
3,186
7. Expenditure for Rice Control Committee
7,000
8. Contribution to International Statisti-
cal Association Funds
1,000
9. Secret funds
126,550
Total
1,602,169
(3) Privy Council Expenditure (salaries and
office expenses)
126,550
(4) House of Peers:
(1,654,556)
1. Stipends and allowances for members.
1,109,269
2. Salaries
131,033
3.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-
(4) House of Peers(Continued)
3. Ofrice expenses.
413,604
4. International parliamentary commer-
cial conference expenses
650
Total
1,654,556
(5) House of Representatives:
(2,248,384)
1. Stipends and allowances for members
1,494,404
2. Salaries ....
143,263
3. Office erpenses
602,757
4. International parliamentary league
expenses
7,960
Total
2,248384
(6) Board of Audit expenditure (Salaries and
office expenses)
551,203
(7) Administrative Litigation Court expendi-
ture (Salaries and office expenses).
124,205
(8) Building and Repairing Administration
Bureau erpenditure (Salaries and office
expenses)
93,679
(9) Customs House expenditure:
(5,645,251)
1. Salaries
1,659,296
2. Office expenses
2,077,732
3. Sea-port quarantine expenses
547,413
4. Disposition expenses
5,718
5. "Haitokin"
440,042
6. Expenses for officials detailed on
special service
914,038
7. Secret funds
1,012
Total
5,645,251
(10) Revenue Offices and Brewing Laboratory
expenditure:
(21,231,404)
1. Salaries .
7,366,991
2. Office expenses
4,985,390
3. Committee expenditure
214,304
4. Disposition expenses
316,320
5. Stamps and other expenses
66,354
6. Allowances to cities, towns and villa-
ges
7,337,552
7. Allowances to textile weavers guilds
507,350
8. Allowances to saké distillers guilds
437,143
Total
21,231,404

=== Page 164 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
(11) Reimbursement and indemnification funds... 15,992,141
(12) Transfer to National Debt Consolidation ..406,490,174
funds
(13) Transfer to Deposit Department special
account
1,122,000
(14) Various other outlays
593,899
(15) Treasury reserve funds:
(23,000,000)
l.First reserve funds
8,000,000
2.Second reserve funds
15,000,000
Total
23,000,000
Total for Finance Department
481,894,434
Army Department:
(Total ¥217,804,071)
1. Army Department proper:
(647,531)
1. Salaries
359,605
2. Office expenses
287,926
Total
647,531
2. Military Expenditure:
(216,098,066
1. Sálaries.
60,988,050
2. Office expenses and repair ex-
penses .
7,658,577
3. Miscellaneous allowance and mis-
cellaneous expenses
19,129,244
4. Clothing and fodder
37,916,712
4.aclothing and provision
37,916,712
5. Oranance and horses
69,153,321
6. Manoauvres .
17,297,763
7. Medical treatment expenses.
1,069,759
8. Expenses for short-period active
service.
.privates and army
students studying at their own ex-
563,831
9. Camping expenses..
58,208
10. Transportation expenses.
1,938,093
1l. Expenses for escorting Imperial re-
tinue.
54,328
12. Secret funds
270,180
Total
216,098,066
(3) Contribution to "Yasukuni" Shrine.
12,000
(4) Miscellaneous outlays
1,046,474
Total for Army Department
217,804,071
Navy

=== Page 165 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
Navy Department:
Total ¥273,953,380)
(I) Navy Department proper:
(537,771)
1. Salaries
354,460
2. Office expenses
183,311
Total
537,771
(2) Armament Expenditure:
(272,191,269)
1. Salaries
59,405,823
2. Office expenses and repair
expenses.
1,437,658
3. Miscellaneous allowances and sun-
dry expenses.
5,731,751
4. Clothing and provision.....
27,737,227
5. Shipbuilding, ordnance and repair
expenses
116,547,619
6. Manoeuvring expenses.
625,633
7. Medical treatment expenses..
1,416,215
8. Expenses for naval stations
and secondary naval ports...
1,147,183
9. Warship maintenance expendi
ture.
52,007,046
10. Hydrographbcal expenses
643,034
l1. Educational expenses.
1,846,131
12. Allowances in aid.
1,019,969
13. Allowances to cooperative
societies.
2,551,733
14. Temporary quartering expenses.
10,947
15. Secret funds
63,300
Total
272,191,269
(3) Miscellaneous outlays.
1,224,340
Total for Navy Department
273,953,380
Department of Justice:
(Total 39,021,269)
(I)Justice Department proper:
(647,719)
1. Salaries
245,672
2. Office expenses
227,603
3. Share in international ex-
4,161
penses.
4. Expenses for protection of ex-
convicts, etc.
83,575
5. Judicial system research ex-
43,268
penses....
6. Grants-in-aid to Prison Offi-
cials training institute..
9,690
7. Grants-in-aid to Bar Associa-
tion
33,750
Total
647,719
(2)

=== Page 166 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
(2) Courts of Justice expenditure:
(20,027,986)
1. Salaries
11,944,261
2. Office expenses.
5,349,195
3. Judicial costs and registra-
tion costs...
2,267,549
4. Trial costs...
278,900
5. Expenses for sheltering con-
victs
107,427
6. Secret funds
80,654
Total
20,027,986
(3) Prison expenditure:
(18,290,140)
1. Salaries....
603,728
2. Office expenses.
6,268,384
3. Accommodation expenses.
11,418,028
Total
18,290,140
(4) Miscellaneous outlays
55,424
Total for Justice Department
39,021,269
Department of Education
(Total 133,184,892)
(I) Education Department proper:
(2,520,083)
1. Salaries
446,324
2. Office expenses.
608,696
3. Scientific researches including
encouragement funds therefor..
370,336
4. Physical culture researches in-
cluding encouragement funds there-
135,404
5. Preservation of National Treas-
ures.
190,000
6. Share in international ex-
penses.
29,859
7. Expenses for teachers and stu-
dents sent abroad for study.
594,435
8. Aviation Council Expenditure...
6,443
9. Expenses for investigation of
historic spots, noted sceneries
and rare specimens of natural
history and preservation thereof. 39,802
10. Arrangements for civic educa-
tion
98,784
Total
2,520,083
(2) Bureau of Religions and Schools:
(340,091)
1. Salaries
53,119
2. Office expenses
161,818
3. kxpenses for spiritual culture
investigation
125,154
Total
(340,091)
(3)

=== Page 167 === (confidence 1.00)
-15-
(3) Meteorological Observatory:
(1,317,828)
1. Salaries .
285,763
2. Office expenses
1,004,367
3. Grants-in-aid to local meteo-
rological observation sta-
tions
26,050
4. Share in international ex-
1,548
penses
Total
1,317,828
(4) Geodetic Observatory (Salaries and
office expenses)
45,410
(5) Common Education expenditure:
(90,440,854)
1. Treasury's share in the sala-
ries of primary school teach-
85,000,000
ers ....
2. State subsidy to primary school
educational expenses ..
1,950,000
3. State subsidy to normal school
educational expenses....
2,300,000
4. Salaries for primary school
teachers serving short period
active service in the Army...
350,824
5. Miscellaneous outlays for common
education ....
336,678
6. Expenses in connection with the
encouragement of schooling of
school-age children......
500,000
Total
90,440,854
(6) Industrial Education expenditure:
(720,550)
1. Grants-in-aid for industrial
education
388,250
2. Industrial education encourage-
ment expenses..
5,433
3. Allowances (of school expenses)
to students
18,480
4. Practice-navigation expenses..
266,522
5. Arrangements for education of
emigrants
36,480
6. Expenses for training of indus-
trial school beachers
55,385
Total
720,550
(7) Social Education Expenditure:
(3,905,042)
1. Subsidies to young men's
education expenditure....
2,000,000
2. Grants-in-aid of salaries
for teachers of young men's
training schools ....
1,491,000
3. Expenses for arrangements for
young men's eduoation.....
7,485
4. Expenses for arrangements for
adults education..
37,303
5. Expenses for encouragement of
social education.
219,254
6.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 1.00)
-16-
(7) Social Education Expenditure:(Continued)
6. Expenses for arrangements for labor-
ers education
50,000
Total
3,905,042
(8) Expenditure for arrangements in con-
nection with Fostering of Sound
Thought
131,636
(9)
Expenditure for Education of Blind and
Mute (Grants-in-aid to blind and mute
education expenses and expenses for the
training of teachers of schools for the
blind and mute)
209,614
(10) Grants-in-aid for additional long service
allowances to teachers and other employes
of public schools
.1,213,320
(11) Grants-in-aid for private middle grade
school pension foundation work
129,600
(12) Disbursements for Universities, other
schools and libraries:
(32,205,249)
1. Imperial Universities
13,204,722
2. Government Universities
6,207,676
3. Schools and Libraries.
12,792,851
Total
32,205,249
(13) Miscellaneous outlays
5,615
Total for Education Department
133,184,892
Department of Agriculture and Forestry (Total 39,360,126)
(I) Department of Agriculture end Forestry
proper:
(1,284,325)
1. Salaries
425,932
2. Office expenses.
456,209
3. Share in international expenses.
29,798
4. Fishing control expenses
358,070
5. Expenses for examination of bulls
for breeding purpose.
14,316
Total
1,284,325
(2) Horse Administration Bureau expendi-
ture
448,655
(3) Forestry administration expenditure
23,853,150
1. Salaries
2,369,160
2. Office expenses
1,223,460
3. Undertaking expenditure
20,260,530
Total
23,853,150
(4)

=== Page 169 === (confidence 1.00)
-17
(4) Experiment farms and investigation
or research institute expenditure
(Salaries and office expenses)
1,769,396
(5)
Silk Conditioning House expenditure
(Salaries and office expenses)
1,674,239
(6) Stallion depot and stud-horse farms ex-
penditure
2,290,466
(7) Fishery Institute expenditure.
481,265
(8) Subsidies.
(7,331,480)
1. Subsidiary aids to agricultural
associations
122,744
2. Subsidiary aids to industrial exami-
nation and industrial training funds-
26,496
3. Grants-in-aid to funds for creation
and maintenance of proprietary peas-
ants
1,826,633
4. Subsidies to fishery associations.
20,664
5. Subsidies to silkworm disease pre-
vention funds
83,283
6. Subsidy to autonomous control of rice.4,947,080
7. Grants-in-aid to local governments
for compilation of agricultural and
forestry statistics
304,580
Total
7,331,480
(9) Miscellaneous outlays.
227,150
Total for Department of Agriculture
and Forestry
39,360,126
Department of Commerce and Industry
Total
(6,689,901)
(I) Department of Commerce and Industry
proper:
(1,574,614)
1. Salaries
615,428
2. Office expenses
671,328
3. Share in international expenses..
15,376
4. Expenditure for weights and measures.
220,163
5. Geological research and investigation
expenses.
52,319
Total.
1,574,614
(2) Foreign Trade Bureau expenditure.
526,705
(3) Fuel Bureau expenditure (salaries and
office expenses)
353,596
(4) Patent Bureau expenditure (Salaries and
office expenses)
850,011
(5) Mine Superintendence Bureau (Salaries
and office expenses).
555,109
(6)

=== Page 170 === (confidence 1.00)
-18
Department of Commerce and Industry(Continued
(6) Laboratories and research institutes ex-
penditure (Salaries and office expenses).. 1,576,595
(7) Training institutes and inspection institu-
tes expenditure (Salaries and office ex-
penses)
1,061,630
(8) Subsidies Grant-in-aid to local commercial
and industrial statistics compilation ex-
penses)
168,715
(9) Miscellaneous outlays
22,926
Total for Department of Commerce and Industry
6,689,901
Department of Communications
Total
(185,485,986)
(I) Department of Communications proper:
827,600
1. Salaries
428,852
2. Office expenses.
391,866
3. Subsidiary aid to international navi-
gation conference.
2,000
4. Share in international expenditure..
4,882
Total
827,600
(2) Communication Offices expenditure (Sala-
ries and business expenses)
1,289,183
(3) Electric Research Institute expenditure
(Salaries and office expenses)
590,348
(4) Light-house Bureau expenditure (Salaries
and office expenses)
1,208,785
(5) Aviation Bureau expenditure (Salaries and
office expenses)
606,572
(6) Annuities and Pensions:
(180,867,457)
1. Annuities
11,234,883
2. Pensions
169,632,574
Total
180,867,457
(7) Miscellaneous outlays
96,041
Total for Department of Communications
185,485,986
Department of Overseas Affairs
Total
(2,269,059)
(I) Department of Overseas Affairs proper:
(803,338)
1. Salaries
331,670
2. Office expenses
425,118
3. Secret funds
46,550
Total
803,338

=== Page 171 === (confidence 1.00)
-19-
Department of Overseas Affairs(Continued)
(2) Tpbacco monopoly business proceeds to be
transferred to Karafuto Orfice special
account.
1,460,437
(3) Misoellaneous outlays
5,284
Total for Department of Overseas Affairs
2,269,059
Grand Total of Ordinary Expenditure
1,462,712,034
Extraordinary Expenditure(By Departments)
Department of Foreign Affairs:
(I) Construction and repair expenses:
(170,428)
1. Telephone exchange machines to be
newly installed (Department of
Foreign Affairs) .
7,000
2. Repairs of foreign mission offices.
163,428
Total
170,428
(2) Removal of foreign mission offices.
21,925
(3) Creation of a foreign mission
133,000
(4) S bsidiary aid for education of Japa-
nese abroad
1,779,920
(5) Expenditure for temporary control of
Japanese residents abroad.
(1,739,293)
1. Salaries
109,610
2. Office expenses.
1,629,683
Total
1,739,293
(6)Expenses relating to various com-
mittees in the League of Nations.
147,190
(7)Expenditure for protection and training
of Japanese emigrants abroad:
(428,910)
1. Salaries .
24,000
2. Office expenses.
111,960
3. Subventions
292,950
Total
428,910
(8)Expenditure for Foreign Tradedevelopment:
(508,802)
1. Salaries
203,355
2. Office expenses.
230,447
3. Subventions
75,000
508,802
(9)

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
20-
Foreign Affairs Department(Continued)
(9) Internatiohal Curtural Under-
takings expenditure
1,000,000
(10) Manchurian Affair expenditure....
2,970,580
(11) Temporary Diplomatic Arrangements
expenditure.
3,502,251
(12) Miscellaneous expenditures relating
to Japan-Manchukuo Permanent Eco-
nomic Joint Committee
30,000
(13) Expenditure relating to relief of
sufferers in Nicholaievsk, Okhotsk and
China affairs.
500,000
(14) Expenditure relating.to Preparatory
Arrangements for abolition of extra-
territoriality in Manchukuo
103,774
(15) Fraction of Loan for Special
Retirement Allowances.
15,100
(16) Expenditure relating to compilation
of "policing history in Manchuria"... 10,000
(17) Expenditure relating to Japan's
participation in international tele-
graph and international wireless
telegraph conferences
69,806
(18) Service allowances and other tempo-
rary additional allowances.......
...2,506,967
Total for Foreign Affairs Department
(15,637,746)
Department of Home Affairs
(Total
200,437,800)
(I) Subsidies:
(11,904,071)
1. Subsidy to water-works under-
takings ....
1,767,000
2. Ditto to river improvement work
288,400
3. Ditto to Shinano River mouth im-
provement work .....
65,000
4. Ditto to harbor construction and
repair work ....
4,284,860
6. Grant-in-aid of payment of in-
terest on borrowings on account
of seismic disaster
47,788
5. Grant-in-aid of payment of in-
terest on borrowings for public
works.......
946,199
7. Grant-in-aid of payment of in-
terest on borrowings for relief of
sufferers from thin rice crop... 134,463
8.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 1.00)
Department of Home Affairs
(I) Subsidies(Continued)
8. Grant-in-aid of payment of
interest on borrowings for flood
and thin crops
169,077
9. Grant-in-aid of payment of borrow-
ings for natural disaster relief
public works(both principal and
interest)
163,132
10. Grant-in-aid of payment of in-
terest on borrowings for natural
disaster rehabilitation work,etc... 2,505,174
1l. Grant-in-aid of payment of interest
on borrowings for public work on
account of economic development in
six northeastern prefectures......
138,944
12. Subsidy to inferior residential
zone improvement work
150,000
13. Subsidy to establishment of public
pawnshops .....
90,000
14. Grant-in-aid of payment of interest
on Yokohama municipal public loan..
372,534
15. Subsidy to medical treatment organs.. 262,500
16. Subsidy to national parks.....
100,000
17. Subsidy to Saiseikai(charity medi-
cal relief establishment)under-
takings .....
300,000
18. Subsidy to Dai Nippon Shobo Gikai
(Japan Fire Prevention Association)
50,000
19. Subsidy to Leprosy Prevention
Association ...
30,000
20. Subsidy to Population Problem Re-
search Association
9,000
21. Subsidy to Northeastern Economic
Rehabilitation and Development
Association
30,000
Total
11,904,071
(2) Riparian Work expenditure:
(24,914,613)
1. Office expenses.
1,375,345
2. River improvement undertakings
20,302,274
3. Sand arrestation work
3,236,994
Total
24,914,613
(3) Harbor Improvement expenditure.....
8,992,439
(4) Road Improvement expenditure........
13,923,657
(5) Subventions to medium and small river
improvement work.
5,223,100
(6) Súbventions to local harbor improve-
ment undertakings
1,320,000
(7) Expenditure relating to investiga-
tion of public work undertakings
52,654
(8).

=== Page 174 === (confidence 1.00)
-22-
Department of Home Affairs(Continued)
(8) Expenditure relating to river control
investigation
250,000
(9) Subventions to flood disaster preven-
tion atrangement undertakings.
400,000
(10) Expenditure relating to town planning
investigations
56,393
(11) Subventions to State and Prefectural
Road Improvement and Town Planning
undertakings
300,000
(12) Hokkaido Development Expenditure:
(28,700,000)
1. Colonization expenses.
2,225,480
2. Forestry expenses.
4,546,977
3. Industrial expenses.
4,632,910
4. Land improvement expenses.
2,494,495
5. Road and bridging expenses.
4,484,679
6. Special bridges.
300,000
7. Rivers
752,899
8. Hydraulic engineering
3,870,000
9. Harbors ....
2,979,195
10. Colonial light railways
401,681
11. Subventions to railways and light
railways
1,683,294
12. Investigation expenses.
25,910
13. Interest on "colonial railway
loan"
302,480.
Total
28,700,000
(13) Construction and repair expendi-
ture
(608,727)
1. State sanatorium for tuberculo-
sisto be newly established.
500,000
2. Other construction expenses....
50,750
3. Repair expenses..
57,977
Total
608,727
(14) Expenditure for Grand Shrine recon-
struction commissioner's office.....
35,184
(15) Expenditure relating to recon-
struction of grand shrine,etc.
9,000
(16) Temporary expenditure on account of re-
construction and repair of Atsuta
shrine and several other Shinto shrines
maintained by State expenditure- ..... 1,O4l,000
(17) Expenses for investigation of Shinto
shrines and training of Shinto
priests.....
51,436
(18)

=== Page 175 === (confidence 1.00)
23
Dopartment of Home Affairs(Continued)
(18) Expenses for special policing
provisions
1,668,179
(19) Expenses for general election of pre-
fectural assembly members
10,000
(20) Epidemic disease prevention expenses.1,260,027
(21) Expenses for sanitary and health pre-
servation arrangements :
(1,551,105)
1. Manufacture of medicines.....
353,413
2. Opium expenditure.....
1,080,457
3. experimental cultivation of medi-
cinal plants and encouragement
thereof.....
27,970
4. Expenses for health investigation
and encouragement thereof........
49,865
5. Bounties on manufacture of medi-
cines and dental supplies..
21,400
6. Grants in aid of expenses for ali-
ment propagation work.
18,000
Total
1,551,105
(22) National park expenditure.
84,389
(23) Medical relief expenditure.
1,100,000
(24)Local development undertaking expenses
for Okinawa prefecture (river improve-
ment, harbor work, road improvement,
erection of lepers' sanatorium, various
sanitary arrangements, etc.)
914,872
(25) Local development undertaking expenses
for Oshima District in Kagoshima pre-
fecture (road improvement and harbor
work)
231,000
(26) Fishery administration and working ex-
penses in Ogasawara (Bonins) Islands and
Seven Islands of Izu.
31,897
(27) Exploitation and reclamation work super-
vising expenses.
147,422
(28) Expenses for investigation of local
system and financial and taxation
system
100,000
(29) Temporary outlays on account of
grants-in-aid to local finances.... 70,296,440
(30) Expenses for advancement of constitu-
tional government and local self-
government systems......
100,000
(31)

=== Page 176 === (confidence 1.00)
24
Department of Home Affairs(Continued)
(31) Expenses for social work investiga-
tion and encouragement thereof......
238,250
(32) Expenses for protection and encouragement
of labor emigrants to northeastern dis-
tricts
30,000
(33) Harmony work expenditure.
50,000
(34) Local improvement expenses.
1,247,130
(35) Expenses for encouragement of fac-
tory disaster prevention arrange-
ments and investigation of sani-
tary arrangements in factories
and mines.....
42,729
(36) Expenses for investigation as to voca-
tional adaptability
8,333
(37) Temporary relief measures for those
thrown out of employment
2,036,866
(38) National rehabilitation movement
encouragement expenses....
30,000
(39) Expenses for Japanese delegates parti-
cipating in international labor con-
gress.....
109,348
(40) Expenses for adjustment of post-quake
reconstruotion and rehabilitation
work
35,649
(41) Grants-in-aid on post-quake recon-
struction work (Subventions to building
expenses in "fire" zone
700,000
(42) Post-quake rehabilitation work expenses
(sand arrestation work on Sagami River and
four other rivers)......
105,000
(43) Expenses in connection with enforcement
of law relating to buildings in urban
districts stricken by great earthquake
of 1923
20,470
(44) Subvention to tidal wave disaster pre-
vention work in Sanriku Districts.....
102,345
(45) Subventions to post-fire-disaster re-
construction work in Hakodate(Hokkaido). 385,191
(46) Service allowances and other temporary
additional allowances....
30,081
(47) Natural disaster relief expenditure
(Subsidies and subventions to relief
public works in various prefectures
subjected to natural disasters)....
20,042,534
(48)

=== Page 177 === (confidence 1.00)
-25 -
Department of Home Affairs(Continued)
(48) Contributions to harbor con-
struction and improvement funds
returned
34,939
Total for Home Affairs Department
200,437,800
Department of Finance
(Total
63,002,143)
(I) Construction and Repair
expenditure.
21,700,883
(Construction of new buildings
of several departments of Cen-
tral government and other govern-
ment offices, the Mint, Monopoly
Bureau, factories, new post-offices
and other public offices, also
repair expenditure)
(2) Investigation expenditure......
3,897,389
(Investigation of land rental,
house rent, national wealth and
national incomes, national census,
parliamentary system, election
system, and various other investi-
gations as well as expenditure for
various investigation committees)
(3) Transfered to special account for
filling up shortage of expenditure of
Kwantung Bureau
502,000
(4) Cabinet Library book maintenance
funds
8,205
(5) State property adjustment expen-
diture
480,879
(6) Indemnification for Four Percent
Chinese Loan (principal and in-
terest)
.3,845,616
(7) Temporary expenditure for Board of
Audit.
10,000
(8) Post-quake reconstruction expendi-
ture.
(2,334,561)
1. Office expenses..
115,396
2. Construction expenses...
2,219,165
Total
2,334,561
(9) Expenditure for lawyers'examina-
tion
5,988
(10) Expenditure for recompilation of
"List of Decoration Holders"
(Cabinet).
11,397
(11)

=== Page 178 === (confidence 1.00)
26
Department of Finance(Continued)
(11) Expenditure for compilation of
"Official History of Finance in
Meiji and Taisho Eras"
26,477
(12) Subsidiary grants in aid of ship-
building funds.
376,036
(13) Expenditure on account of indemni-
fication (monopoly business)
54,519
(14) Fraction of "Rokudaka Seiri" loan...
248
(15) Expenses for operation of national
resources control scheme.
178,466
(16) Service allowances and other temporary
additional allowances.
48,947
(17) Expenditure for temporary finance
and economic investigation and adjust-
ment........
359,104
(18) Expenditure relating to temporary con-
trol of customs houses.
31,080
(19) Expenditure on account of presentation
of awards in connection with Manchurian
incident.......
588,737
(20) Expenses for collection of temporary
profit taxes..
707,309
(21) Expenditure relating to control on ex-
portation of cotton textile fabrics...
10,899
(22) Expenditure on account of natural dis-
asters:
Reconstruction of Hakodate local and
district courts (destroyed by fire)
and of Yamaguchi high school (also
destroyed by fire)....
123,305
(23) Expenditure in connection with economic
development of northeastern districts
(office expenses)........
28,510
(24) Expenditure for preparatory arrangements
for official celebration of 26o0th anni-
versary of the founding of the Empire
(office expenses).
39,771
(26) Expenditure on account of preparatory
arrangements for establishment of pension
20,000
treasury
(25)

=== Page 179 === (confidence 1.00)
- 27 -
Department of Finance (Continued)
(25) Miscellaneous expenses for temporary
handling of pension affairs in connection
with grant of pensions
31,889
(27) Pension treasury funds
1,000,000
(28) Grants in aid of dividend distribu-
tion funds for special industrial com-
panies in Tohoku districts (Tohoku
Industrial Development and Tohoku
Development Electric Power Companies)
361,645
(29) Special arrangements for diplomatic
communication
1,512,000
(30) Purchase of supplies for House of Peers
and House of Representatives.....
49,319
(31) Payment of instalment of South Man-
churia railway shares held by Govern-
ment.
20,000,000
(32) Subsidiary aids to natural disaster
relief funds for Kyoto prefecture..
7,024
(33) Subsidies:
(2,650,000)
1. Subsidy to the Association for
official celebration of 2600th
anniversary of founding of the
Empire....
2,500,000
2. Subsidy to propaganda work for
inviting foreign tourists..
150,000
Total
2,650,000
(34) Treasury reserves:
Manchurian affair first reserve.
2,000,000
Total for Finance Department
63,002,143
Army Department:
(Total
510,161,269)
(I) Construction and Repair
expenditure:
(1,139,025)
1. Repair and reconstruction of
military barracks and warehouses
damaged by ants, ebc......
8,000
2. Reconstruction of barracks, etc.
(for seventh army division)..
20,000
3. Water supply arrangements in mili-
tary barracks, etc.....
10,000
4. Reconstruction of official buildings
for army department.
131,930
5. Construction of new buildings for re-
searoh section in General Staff Office..
20,000
6. Communications arrangements for Tokyo
garrison headquarters.
15,000
7. Other new construction expenditure.
425,300
8. Repair expenditure.
508,795
Total
1,139,025
(2)

=== Page 180 === (confidence 1.00)
-28 -
Army Department(Continued)
(2) National Defence arrangements re-
plenishment expenditure:
(108,124,501)
1. Adjustment of fortifications.. 8,753,052
2. Repletion of ordnance and
other war supplies.......
99,371,449
Total
108,124,501
(3) Adjustment of lands and buildings..
741,248
(4) Land surveying expenses.
321,000
(5) Post-quake reconstruction expendi-
ture......:
(1,990,599)
1. Reconstruction of military
barracks and other buildings..
558,806
2. Reconstruction of defence works. 728,488
3. Reconstruction of Army arsenal
and other buildings.
703,305
Total
1,990,599
(6) Adjustment and repletion of manoeu-
vering grounds, target grounds, grounds
for bridging exercise,etc.
3,086,446
(7) Expenditure for utilization of military
lands and buildings.
68,357
(8) Expenditure for drawing and printing of
maps for military use as well as for
general sale
423,655
(9) Expenditure for garrison force sta-
tioned in China....
231,416
(10) Allowances in lump sum
231,765
(11) Bounties on motor cars for military use.591,752
(12) Subsidy to Ex-soldiers Association..... 300,000
(13) Expenditure for prevention of perni-
cious anaemia (Epidemic disease pe-
culiar to horse).
36,000
(14) Manchurian Affair expenditure.......269,613,347
(15) Reorganization of air force and other83,982,139
(16) Armament improvement expenditure.....34,968,306
(17)

=== Page 181 === (confidence 1.00)
-29
Army Department(Continued)
(17) Contribution to "Yasukuni Shrine"
in aid of temporary festival
funds.
60,000
(18) Service allowances and other tem-
porary additional allowances......
481,213
(19) Expenses in connection with presenta-
tion of awards on account of Man-
churian Affair.....
807,060
(20) Natural disaster expenditure:
Repair and reconstruction of mili-
tary barracks and other buildings
damaged by snowstorms in northern
districts.
300,000
(21) Repair and replenishment of war
supplies..
1,600,000
(22) Relief of former colonial troops of
Hokkaido and other relief funds....
950,000
(23) Indemnification on account of crea-
tion of special zone for military
aviation grounds.....
100,000
(24) Purchase of various supplies for
General Staff Office and other army
offices.
13,440
Total for Army Department
510,161,269
Navy Department
(Total
407,700,236)
(I) Construction of warships.
218,195,826
(2) Expenditure for various marine
and ashore arrangements......
(59,567,600)
1. Office expenses.
1,367,721
2. Equipment for engineering and
other workshops.
46,557,541
3. Arrangements for defence corps
5,027,552
4. Miscellaneous arrangements for
naval ports........
2,501,900
5. Arrangements for educational
orgens.
3,841,186
6. Arrangements for naval hospitals
271,700
Total
59,567,600
(3) Naval air force expenditure.
26,876,724
(4) Warship Fleet adjustment expen-
diture.....:
(54,714,903)
1. Conversion of warships..
41,550,858
2. Special repair(of warships)
expenses.....
11,225,000
3. Replacement of secondary bat-
teries for submarines.
739,045
4. Construction of unclassed
service ships.......
1,200,000

=== Page 182 === (confidence 1.00)
-30-
Navy Department(Continued)
(4) Warship Fleet adjustment
expenditure (continued)
Total.
54,714,902
(5) Replenishment of war supplies.
18,922,750
(6) Construction and repair expenditure
(819,062)
1. Construction (of buildings,etc)...
34,000
2. Repair (of buildings,etc).
75,000
3. Experimenting of naval oil field
reserve
710,000
Total
819,062
(7) Expenditure for construction and re-
pair of warships undertaken for other
countries.
1,408,029
(8) Compilation and preparation of charts
for sale
92,766
(9) Investigation and research expenses...
(6,963,331)
1. Researches of special chemical
ordnance.......
150,000
2. Researches as to aviation.
133,331
3. Researches as to ships hull and en-
gines and ordnance manufacture.
6,680,000
Total
6,963,331
(10) Grants in lump sum
212,077
(11) Share in International Hydrographical
office expenditure.
5,575
(12)
Post-quake rehabilitation expenditure
(replenishment of war supplies,etc)...
1,000,000
(13)
Expenditure for warships despatched to
North Sea and other directions on special
mission.
500,000
(14) Manchurian affair expenditure.
10,389,851
(15) Manoeuvre expenditure.
6,000,000
(15)
Expenditure for preparation of high al-
titude weather charts for aeronautical
purposes and other charts.
211,518
(17) Service allowances and other temporary
additional allowances....
638,508
(18)
Expenditure for replenishment of ordnance
for educational purposes.
800,000
(19)

=== Page 183 === (confidence 1.00)
-31-
Navy Department(Continued)
(19) Expenditure for recompilation
of books.......
31,716
(20) Transfer to special account:
(Transfer to naval fuel factory
special account for deferred
circulation capital.
350,000
Total for Navy Department
407,700,236
Department of Justice
(Total
3,087,513)
(I) Law investigation expenditure....
28,010
(2) Construction and repair expenditure.. 788,974
(3) Special arrangements for prevention of
and suppression of offences relating
to thoughts......
503,299
(4) Expenditure relating to official
mediation in monetary disputes......
798,058
(5) Temporary prison expenditure.
643,215
(6) Expenditure relating to Jurispru-
dence Deliberative Council..
15,000
(7) Expenditure in connection with re-
form and improvement of judicial police
system.....
255,957
(8) Expenditure for preparatory arrange-
ments enforcement of partially re-
vised commercial code.....
5,000
(9) Special retiring allowances
50,000
Total for Justice Department
.3,087,513
Department of Education
(Total 11,299,488)
(I)
) Construction and repair expen-
diture
1,167,469
(2)
Expenditure for compilation of
official history of institutions
relating to Imperial Household....
10,000
(3)
Expenditure for compilation of
official history concerning the
restoration of Imperial regime..
81,580
(4)
Expenditure for temporary training
of school teachers..
8,374
(5)

=== Page 184 === (confidence 1.00)
-32-
Department of Education(Continued)
(5) Expenditure for training of
meteorological technicians.
19,044
(6) Temporary investigation expendi-
ture.
329,498
(7) Expenditure for temporary training
institutes..
235,000
(8) Expenditure for despatch of officials
to international conferences abroad
(travelling expense,etc. for delegates
participating in international academy
conference and international scienti-
fic conference...
42,600
(9) Subsidies and grants-in-aid:
1,757,450
(10) Post-quake reconstruction and rehabi-
litation expenditure(reconstruction
and rehabilitation of Tokyo Imperial
University and others)
1,992,197
(1l) Temporary expenditure for Imperial
universities, Government universi-
ties, other schools and libraries... 2,948,255
(12) Arrangements for social education... 160,000
(13) Expenditure for maintenance and preser-
vation of national treasures..
225,041
(14) Expenditure for temporary provisions
for preservation of historic remains.. 56,595
(15) Expenditure for investigation and con-
trol of fine art works,etc.
19,200
(16) Expenses for temporary provisions for
common education.
440,000
(17) Expenses for temporary provisions for
young men's education....
300,000
(18) Expenditure for temporary provisions for
development of sound thoughts
47,000
(19) Expenditure for educational and reli-
gious reforms...
90,000
(20) Expenditure for replenishment of equip-
ment for weather observation.....
300,000
(21) Subsidiary aid to temporary provisions
for safeguarding health of primary
school teachers
175,000
(22)

=== Page 185 === (confidence 1.00)
Department of Education(Continued)
(22) Subvention for preparatory arrange-
ments for l2th Olympic meet
30,000
(23) Expenditure for various temporary
arrangement and equipment(including
provisions for cinema education, equip-
ment for geodetic observatory,etc.)....
100,000
(24) Temporary outlay for preservation of nat-
ional treasures in districts stricken by
natural disasters.
125,874
(25) Grants to local governments in aid of re-
payment of borrowings on account of recon-
struction of primary schools destroyed by
natural disaster (both principal and in-
terest thereon)
166,334
(26) Grant. of schooling expenses on students
studying abroad and other temporary addi-
tional allowances...
472,977
Total for Educational Department
.11,299,488
Department of Agriculture and Forestry
(Total
76,324,152
(I) Industrial encouragement expendi-
(28,605,284)
ture.
1. Encouragement of agricultural im-
provement..
2,665,181
2. Reclamation and land improvement
expenses......
10,133,385
3. Control of agricultural machines
and implements..
9,453
4. Provisions for control of fertili-
15,000
zers........
5. Temporary arrangements for supply
of and demand for sulphate of ammo-
nium
370,430
6. Bounties on sea-shore afforesta-
tion for sand arrestation purposes..l20,852
7. Bounties on opening up of forestry
(sylvan) roads.....
....1,299,941
8. Bounties on raising of fur-animals 35,000
9. Encouragement of use of charcoal gas
generators.........
103,632
10. Encouragement of deep-sea fishing.. 177,208
11. Encouragement of harbor construction
and improvement for fishing boats.1,783,140
12. Encouragement of improvement in
fishery co-operative operative soci-
eties undertakings.....
9,270
13. Subsidiary aids to expenditure for
inspection of marine products for
exportation ..
10,332
14. Expense for inspection and testing
of motors for fishing.
16,066
(15)

=== Page 186 === (confidence 1.00)
34-
Department of Agriculture and Forestry(Continued)
(I) Industrial encouragement expendi-
ture(Continued)
15. Expenses for qualitative improvement
of marine products(manufactured or
worked on) and development of their
utilization ...
112,399
16. Expenditure for control of marine pro-
ducts for export.
9,850
17. Encouragement of provisions for
canal-bays and quays for vessels....
703,471
18. Encouragement of fishing craft in-
surance......
53,133
19. Encouragement of live-stock in-
surance.
197,492
20. Encouragement of increased pro-
duction of diary farming products..
35,402
21. Encouragement of multiplication of
egg production and of utilization
of eggs, and improvement of poultry
raising .......
384,681
22. Encouragement of self-supplying pro-
visions of wool.....
1,348,428
23. Encouragement of live-stock breed-
ing as subsidiary work of farming..
570,055
24. Encouragement of registration of
cattle (oxen) and testing of their
efficiency.......
49,656
25. Encouragement of provisions for pre-
vention of symphysis(cartilage) or
horse disease..
80,000
26. Expenditure for advancement and de-
velopment of equestrian affairs
(matters relating to horse)....
1,940,893
27. Bounties on local horse racing
associations.....
185,483
28. Bounties on improvement of pas-
tures.......
1,000,000
29. Bounties on raising of stallions
(stud horses).....
329,105
30. Bounties on raising of horses suited
for military use and of horses for
riding purposes
202,354
31. Bounties on increase of birth-rates
of horses........
148,375
32. Bounties on improvement in seri-
cultural industry.
3,125,245
33. Encouragement of industrial under-
takings enterprises in agrarian vil-
lages....
1,052,656
34. Encouragement of exportation of agri-
cultural products and others.
387,715
Total
28,605,284
(2) Expenditure for agrarian village
development:
(4,063,389)
1. Salaries
320,802
2. Office expenses.
981,428
3. Construction expenses
218,909
4. Encouragement funds(Bounties).
2,527,775
5.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
- 35 -
Department of Agriculture and Forestry(Continued)
(2) Expenditure for agrarian village develop-
ment(Continued)
5. Grants in aid of payment of interest on
funds (raised by loan) for unemploy-
ment relief and for agrarian village
relief undertakings
14,475
Total.
4,063,389
(3) Investigation and research expendi-
ture
1,714,324
(4) Construction and repair expenditure...
1,188,756
(5) Cattle epidemics and parasites preven-
tion expenditure.....
987,066
(6) Forestry riparian expenditure.
5,327,347
(7) Expenditure for official afforestation
in state-owned forests.
2,412,367
(8) Expenditure for expediting afforesta-
tion work in private-owned and other
forests.
1,321,511
(9) Expenditure for control of hunting
grounds.
22,198
(10) Expenditure for arrangements for economical
management of fishing.
2,000,000
(1l) Expenditure for protection of fur-seals
and sea-otters..
180,295
(12) Temporary expenditure in connection with
fishery registration.
7,000
(13) Expenditure for adjustment of coast-wise
fishing grounds..
34,662
(14) Expenditure for control of Japanese fish-
ing abroad.
158,358
(15) Expenditure for operation of Russo-Japa-
nese fishery convention..
49,846
(16) Expenditure in connection with examina-
tion and inspection of beef and other meats
imported from Tsingtao.
33,000
(17) Expenditure for investigation of rivers
waterway control system
100,000
(18) Transfer to special accounts(Forestry
fire insurance special account. fishing
craft re-insurance special account and
cattle reinsurance special account)....
280,803
(19)

=== Page 188 === (confidence 1.00)
Department of Agriculture and Forestry(Continued)
(19)Expenditure in connection with economic
rehabilitation of agrarian districts: (9,515,451)
1. Salaries
60,190
2. Office expenses.
315,734
3. Subventions
9,139,52
Total
9,515,451
(20) Subventions to exploitation of agri-
cultural lands for proprietary farming. 3ll,735
(21) Subsidy to autonomous control of rice and
grains.
1,205,167
(22) Subventions and mulberry garden adjnst-
ment and replantation,etc.....
600,000
(23) Expenditure for principal water uti-
lization and drainage undertakings
(state undertakings)....
121,100
(24) Expenditure for land reclamation work
in Northeastern Districts (state un-
dertakings).
138,787
(25) Expenditure for anti-natural disaster
forestry provisions.
850,000
(26) Expenditure for provisions for preven-
tion of natural disaster damage and
other provisions.
(13,494,782)
1. Salaries
23,908
2. Undertaking expenses.
856,432
3. Subventions.
12,614,442
Total
13,494,782
(27) Subventions to industrial and other
rehabilitation undertakings in dis-
tricts stricken by natural disasters..
6,026
(28) Expenditure for afforestation against
tidal wave visitation in Sanriku dist-
ricts.
122,254
(29) Expenditure for industrial and other
development in Okinawa prefecture..
866,636
(30) Subventions to local industrial and
other development undertakings in
Oshima Island (Kagoshima prefecture)..
365,385
(31) Allowances on Northeastern prefectures
in connection with state-owned forests. 2l2,040
(32) Service allowances and other temporary
additional allowances..
28,583
Total

=== Page 189 === (confidence 1.00)
-37-
Total for Department of Agriculture and
Forestry
76,324,152
Department of Commerce and Industry: (Total
20,124,313)
(I) Expenditure in connection with
(4,543,426
development of foreign trade:
1. Salaries.
41,259
2. Office expenses.
367,402
3. Subsidies.
936,765
4. Export indemnification
1,198,000
5. Subventions to import indemnifi-
cation
.2,000,000
Total
4,543,426
(2) Expenditure in connection with promo-
tion of self-supply of liquid fuel..
(6,736,646)
1. Salaries.......
72,295
2. uffice expenses.....
352,714
3. Subventions.
3,262,15v
4. Subsidies to oil concerns for hold-
ing stock of oil under Petroleum
Oil Law.
3,049,487.
Total
6,736,646
(3) Expenditure in connection with advance-
ment of industrial arts and qualitative
improvement of medium and minor indus-
trial products:
(418,943)
1. Salaries
23,340
2. Office expenses.
88,267
3. Subsidies.
307,336
Total
418,943
(4) Expenditure for money accommodation ar-
rangements for medium and minor industrial
undertakings:
121,710
1. Salaries.
4,041
2. Office expenses.
8,873
3. Subsidies
108,796
Total
121,710
(5) Expenditure in connection with ex-
pansion of medium and minor commercial
interests:
442,498
1. Salaries
10,685
2. Office expenses.
43,633
3. Subsidies
388,180
Total
442,498
(6)

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
- 38
一
Department of Commerce and Industry(Continued)
(6) Expenditure in connection with develop-
ment of medium and minor industrial
undertakings.
(1,278,948)
1. Salaries
16,976
2. Office expenses.
78,344
3. Subsidies
1,183,628
Total
1,278,948
(7) Expenditure for industrial encourage-
ment:
(710,442)
1. Salaries.
12,986
2. Office expenses.
54,504
3. Subsidies
642,952
Total
710,442
(8) Expenditure for encouragement of mining
industry:
(201,360)
1. Salaries
4,850
2. Office expenses.
12,390
3. Subsidies
184,120
Total
201,360
(9) Expenditure for encouragement of iron-
steel industry:
(1,963,273)
1. Salaries.
14,475
2. Office expenses.
7,261
3. Bounties.
1,941,537
Total
1,963,273
(10) Industrial encouragement expenditure:
(289,181)
1. Subsidies to industrial products
forwarding corporations.
59,000
2. National product development expen-
diture......
18,264
3. Bounties on inventions.
142,917
4. Bounties on use of artificial fiber
48,000
5. Subsidies to aid the spread of pro-
pagation of industrial rationaliza-
tion and the use of national products21,000
Total.
289,181
(11) Investigation and experiment expenditure.279,178
(12) Construction, repair and equipment expen-
diture
1,335,636
(13) Temporary adjustment expenditure.
53,501
(14) Expenditure for enforcement of Revised
Law for Weights and Measures.
8,895
(15) Examination and disposition expenditure
(Patent Bureau)
422,471
(16) Temporary trial and disposition expendi-
ture
25,700
(17)

=== Page 191 === (confidence 1.00)
- 39-
Department of Commerce and Industry(Continued)
(17) Okinawa prefecture industrial develop-
ment undertaking expenditure.
25,210
(18) Oshima district(Kagoshima prefecture)
industrial development undertaking ex-
26,577
penditure.
(19) Foreign trade control expenditure.
22,042
(20) Temporary industrial rationalization
board expenditure.
5,980
(2l) Iron foundry enterprise valuation committee
expenditure.....
7,000
(23) Expenditure for expenses in connection with
preparatory arrangements for 194l inter-
national exhibition(to be held in commemo-
ration of 2600th anniversary of founding
of the Empire).
62,647
(22) Expenses in connection with Japan's parti-
cipation in Paris international exposition.
210,000
(24) Subsidiary grant in aid of funds for erec-
tion of international commercial sample
museum.
200,000
(25) Temporary outlays on account of invest-
ment......funds in central bank for commer-
cial and industrial co-operative socie-
ties......
700,000
(26) Temporary expenditure for delegates parti-
cipating in international conferences(in-
ternational committee on weights and
measures, international geological con-
ference and international insurance con-
ference).
33,049
Total for Department of Commerce and Industry...
20,124,313
Department of Communications :
(Total 21,961,035)
(I) Subsidies, subventions and
bounties:
(16,134,118)
1. Subsidy to standardization of
electrical supplies........
5,000
2. Subsidy to seamen's relief work...
16,000
3. Subsidy to life boat association
work.....
50,000
4. Subsidies to regular steamship
service........
9,550,736
5. Subsidy to seamen's training.
16,400
6. Subsidy to seamen's labor exchange
work.....
107,210
7. Seamen's social work encouragement..
935
8.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 1.00)
-40-
Department of Communications(Continued)
8. Subsidy to seamen's mutual relief
arrangements....
50,000
9. Ship improvement subventions.
850,000
10. Subventions for special provisions
of ships........
248,000
11. Aviation bounties.
899,837
12. Subsidy to air transport business...
3,790,000
13. Subsidy to creation of aerodromes.
550,000
Total
16,134,118
(2)
) Expenditure in connection with utiliza-
tion of electricity in agrarian villa-
ges and improvement thereof.
122,787
(3) Temporary research expenses for electri-
city research institute..
52,154
(4) Expenditure for river current control
investigation.
250,000
(5) Expenditure for investigation of ship-
building material (steel and iron)....
36,779
(6) Expenditure for ship improvement provi-
sions
47,468
(7) Temporary ship inspection and other expen-
diture
20,610
(8) Ship investigation and other expendi-
ture.
40,000
(9) Subventions and provisions for deep-sea
navigation
1,129,146
(10)Subventions and provisions on ship build-
ing.
444,706
(1l) Erection and repair of beacons,etc.
400,000
(12) Expenditure for temporary training of air
craft pilots and mechanics.
249,500
(13) Expenditure for creation of new aerodromes
and repletion thereof.
2,113,002
(14) Expenditure for aviation testing provi-
sions
339,040
(15) Expenditure for arrangements for air
craft inspection
24,000
(16) Expenditure in connection with preparatory
arrangements for creation of international
air route.
144,063
(17) Construction and repair expenses.
138,618
(18)

=== Page 193 === (confidence 1.00)
Department of Communications (Continued)
(18) Expenditure for tools, machines and
equipments
245,000
(19) Expenditure in connection with despatch
of delegates to international confer-
8,767
ence
(20) Post-quake rehabilitation and recon-
struction expenditure(including purchase
of articles, supplies, etc.)
21,077
Total for Department of Communications
21,961,035
Department of Overseas Affairs:
(Total
21,490,242)
(I) Emigrants Training Institute
expenditure:
(119,127)
1. Salaries.
14,660
2. Office expenses
49,748
3. Training expenses.
54,719
Total
119,127
(2) Expenditure for protection and en-
couragement of emigrants and overseas
colonization undertakings:
(3,364,365)
1. Protection and encouragement of
emigration.
1,596,800
2. Loans advanced as overseas under-
taking funds...
98,010
3. Loans for industrial enterprise
funds...
45,000
4. Guidance and encouragement of over-
seas colonization undertakings..
1,455,001
5. Subsidies.
90,554
6. Subsidy to Japan-Brazilian Asso-
ciation.....
70,000
7. Overseas development committee ex-
9,000
penses.
Total
3,364,365
(3) Expenditure for emigration and colo-
nization in Manchukuo:
4,764,609
1. Guidance and supervision expenses.
97,403
2. Protection and encouragement of
emigrants...
156,000
3. Investigation of colonies.
150,766
4. Expenses in connection with emi-
grants.
325,340
5. Expenses in connection with group
emigrants......
2,829,050
6. Expenses in connection with training
of group emigrants,etc
334,850
7. Encouragement of emigration.
350,000
8. Subsidies.......
491,200
9. Emigration propaganda expenditure.
30,000
Total
4,764,609
(4)

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
Department of Overseas Affairs(Continued)
(4) Cotton and Wool resources exploitation
expenditure:
(220,000)
1. Office expenses.
10,000
2. Subsidy to Cotton Association.
60,000
3. Subsidy to Wool Sheep Association.
150,000
Total.
220,000
(5) Grants-in-aid for establishment of
Colonization Encouragement Hall..
100,000
(6) Transfer to Special Account on account
of supplementing chosen Government
expenditure.....
12,913,966
(7) Service allowances and other temporary
additional allowances....
8,175
Total for Department of Overseas Affairs........ 21,490,242
Total Extraordinary Expenditure.
1,351,225,937
Grand Total-Ordinary and Extra-
ordinary expenditure.
2.813,937,971

=== Page 195 === (confidence 1.00)
-43-
LOAN PROJECTS
(Compiled from newspaper sources.)
The amount of prospective loans to be issued during
the next fiscal year commencing April 1 under the revised bud-
get estimate is figured at ¥772,253,000 for general account
and ¥143,000,000 for special account, or a total of ¥915,-
253,000. Compared with the loan project as under the
original budget estimate framed at the hand of the prev-
ious ministry (Finance Minister Mr. Baba), the above figures
show a decrease of ¥30,198,000 in general account and ¥12,-
000,000 in special account, or a decrease of ¥42,198,000 in
the total. Divided into general account and special ac-
count the details are as follows:----
Revised
Original
estimate
estimate
Decrease
Loans for
(Figures in unit of ¥1,000)
General
Account
772,253
802,451
30,198
Ditto for
Special
Account
143,000
155,000
12,000
Chosen Gov-
ernment Gen-
eral
65,000
65,000
Imperial Rail-
ways-
42,000
47,000
5,000
Communication
undertakings 36,000
43,000
7,000
Total.....
915.253
957.451
42,198
In addition to the above total a sum of 3o million yen
is to be raised by means of loan, this amount being requir-
ed for the purpose of balancing prefectural finances as
additional grants-in-aid to local governments, for which
there is no corresponding revenue. The total amount of new
loans to be issued next fiscal year will thus come up to
about ¥945,253,000.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
to despateh
No2513 of July 24, 1937 from th
Supplementary Budget
Embaesy at Tokyo.
for Fiscal Year 1937-38
"We sanction the supplementary budget estimate for the fiscal
year 1937-38 which was approved by the Imperial Diet and ord-
er it to be made public herewith."
March 30, 1937.
Imperial Sign Manual & Imperial Seal
Countersigned by
Senjuro Hayashi, Prime Minister and
Minister for Education
Tatsunosuke Yamazaki, Minister for
Agriculture and Forestry
Count Hideo Kodama, Minister for
Communications
Mitsumasa Yonai, Minister for Navy
Suyehiko Shiono, Minister for Justice
Takuo Godo, Minister for Commerce and
Industry
Kakichi Kawarada, Minister for Home
Affairs.
Toyotaro Yuki, Minister for Finance and
Minister for Overseas Affairs
Naotake Sato, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
SUPPLEMENTARY BUDGET ESTIMATE (General Account)
The amount of the supplementary budget estimate for the
fiscal year 1937-38 is fixed as ¥58,197,902 each of revenue
and expenditure. The amount of each item of revenue and ex-
penditure is as shown in the annexed table.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 1.00)
Supplementary Budget Table
General Account
REVENUE
Ordinary:
(6) Miscellaneous receipts
¥5,840,000
Extraordinary:
(2)Miscellaneous receipts
730,000
(The above figure is composed of ¥30,0o0 of funds
returned and ¥700,000 transferred from the special
account for Government universities)
(13)Public loans
51,627,902
(This figure is composed of ¥435,948 of Manchurian
Affair Loan and other borrowings transferred from
the Treasury)
Total extraordinary revenue..
¥52,357,902
Total revenue(both ordinary and
extraordinary).
58,197,902
EXPENDITURE (Ordinary)
For Department of Foreign Affairs:
(I) Foreign Office proper:
7. Share in the expenditure for League of Nations
(various organs attached to the League)..48,391
(5) Expenditure for Educational department
of Japanese Embassy in Manchukuo......
37,445
Total for Foreign Affairs Department..
85,836
For Department of Finance:
(4) The House of Peers.
44,937
(¥15,270 for salaries; ¥29,667 for office
expenses)
(5) The House of Representatives.
60,514
(¥20,360 for salaries; ¥40,154 for office
expenses)
(11) Expenditure on account of repayments, re-
imbursements and replenishments of funds... 48,391

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
(12) Transferred to National Debt Amortisation
fund.
457,682
Total for Department of Finance.
611,524
For Department of Justice:
(I) Justice Department proper.
100,000
(¥3,637 for salaries; ¥10,363 for office ex-
penses; ¥86,000 for encouragément of pro-
tection of ex-convicts and ex-prisoners)
For Department of Education:
(I) Education Department proper:
Expenditure for scientific researches and en-
couragement thereof.....
5,000
For Department of Commerce and Industry:
(I) Department of Commerce and
Industry proper.....
19,387
(¥5,798 for salaries; ¥13,589 for office ex-
penses)
(2) Mine Superintendence Bureau.
30,000
(¥13,073 for salaries; ¥16,972 for office ex-
penses)
Total for Department of Commerce and Industry. 49,387
For Department of Communications:
(I) Communications Department proper.
5,361
(¥1,358 for salaries; ¥4,003 for office ex-
penses)
(2) Communication expenditure.
11,041
(¥4,543 for salaries; ¥6,498 for office ex-
penses)
Total for Communications Department..
16,402
Total ordinary expenditure.
868,149
EXPENDITURE(Extraordinary)
For Department of Foreign Affairs:
(19) Temporary expenditure for foreign missions
(Embassies, Legations, etc.).
90,000

=== Page 199 === (confidence 1.00)
(2) Expenditure for embankment works of Japanese
settlement at Hangkow
57,662
Total for Foreign Affairs Department
147,662
For Department of Home Affairs :
(29) Grants-in-aid to local finances....
30,000,000
(39) Temporary expenditure for Japanese participa-
tion in international conferences (International
Labor Conference and International Agrarian
Sanitation Conference)
31,309
(47) Natural Disaster Expenditure:
Subsidies to local public works for recon-
struction and rehabilitation purposes in the
prefectures afflicted by natural disasters... 6,57l,500
(49) Expenditure for preparatory arrangements
in connection with enforcement of Air De-
fence Law
20,000
Total for Department of Home Affairs......
36,622,809
For Department of Finance:
(35) Expenditure for temporary control
of foreign exchanges
40,294
(36) Expenditure for official celebration of fif-
tieth anniversary of promulgation of Con-
stitution......
85,000
(37) Treasury's share in expenditure for education
of Japanese residents in Manchukuo..
300,000
(38) Subsidy to the fund for relief of natural
disaster sufferers in Hokkaido.....
32,972
Total for Department of Finance.
458,266

=== Page 200 === (confidence 1.00)
For Department of Navy:
(13) Expenditure for despatch of warships to
foreign waters on special mission:
(Despatch of warship Ashigara to England in
connection with the Coronation of British
sovereign)......
820,000
(14) Manchurian Affair expenditure.
435,948
(21) Natural disaster expenditure(Reconstruction
and repair of naval buildings at Yokosuka and
Sasebo naval ports damaged by wind and flood... 200,000
Total for Navy Department.
1,455,948
For Department of Education:
(1) Construction and repair expenditure.
17,000
(22) Subsidy to l2th Olympic Meet expenditure
750;000
Total for Education Department.
767,000
For Department of Agriculture and Forestry:
(3) Investigation and research expenditure.
8,000
(26) Natural disaster expenditure (Provisions for
prevention of natural disaster,etc.)......
2,077,500
(Undertaking expenditure ---¥458,200 and Sub-
ventions ---¥1,619,300)
(29) Expenditure for industrial and other deve-
lopment in Okinawa prefecture.
430,500
(33) Expenditure in connection with oper-
ation of Japan-Soviet Fishery Convention...
19,068
Total for Department of Agriculture and
Forestry.
2,535,068
For Department of Commerce and Industry:
(2) Expenditure for provisions relating to self-
supply of liquid fuel (subventions)
653,000
(25) Temporary investment (payment of instalment on
shares of Teikoku Fuel Industrial Company held
by the Government)
,000,000
(27) Expenditure for organization of Teikoku
Fuel Industrial Company.
30,000
(28) Subvention to International Exhibition in
celebration of 2600th anniversary of the
founding of the Empire....
500,000
Total for Department of Commerce and Industry. 6,183,000

=== Page 201 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-
For Department of Communications:
(I) Subsidies and Bounties:
Subsidy to air transport business..
130,000
(21) Expenditure for investigation of control of
electric business and enterprises.
30,000
Total for Communications Department.......
160,000
For Department of Overseas Affairs:
(8) Investment in shares of Manchuria Development
Company (payment of instalment on shares of
Manchuria Development Company held by Govern-
ment.
9,000,000
Total extraordinary expenditure......
.57,329,753
Grand total of Expenditure
58,197,902
Special Account
We sanction the special account supplementary budget
estimates (revenue and expenditure) for the 1937-38 fiscal
year which was approved by the Imperial Diet and order
the same to be made public herewith."
March 30, 1937.
Imperial Sign Manual and Imperial
Seal.
Countersigned by
Senjuro Hayashi, Prime Minister and
Minister of Education
Toyotaro Yuki, Minister for Finance
and Minister for Overseas
Affairs.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
Special Account Budget.
The supplementary Budget estimate (both revenue and expen-
diture) for special account for the l937-38 fiscal year mentioned
hereinunder comprises those for the National Debt Amortisation
Fund, National Loans and the Kwantung Bureau,all belonging to
the jurisdiction of the Finence Department; the Imperial Univ-
ersities and Government Universities both belonging to the juris-
diotion of the Education Department; and the Chosen Government-
General belonging to the jurisdiction of the Department of Over-
seas Affairs. The amount of revenue and expenditure for each item
is shown in the budget table appended hereunder. (See Table I)
In respect of the continuing expenditures mentioned in Table 2
given elsewhere the previously fixed total amount as well as the
amount of yearly allotment has been revised or reassessed.
In respect of those items of expenditure mentioned in Table 3
given elsewhere the balance of funds remaining on hand at the
end of the current fiscal year, if any, may be carried forward
for use in the ensuing fiscal year (1938-39 fiscal year)
(N.B. Table 3 referred to in the foregoing paragraph is omitted)
(Table I)
Under jurisdiction of
Finance Department
National Debt Amortisation Fund
Revenue
(I) National debt amortisation fund revenue:
Received from General Account .........
..¥457,682
Expenditure
(I) National debt amortisation fund expenditure...¥457,682

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
-8 -
Publio Loans.
Revenue
(I) Public loan revenue:
Public loan received.
51,672,902
Expenditure
(I) Public loan expenditure:
Transferred to General Account.
.. 51,672,902
The Kwantung Bureau.
Revenue (Extraordinary)
(5) Previous year's surplus transferred
125,000
Expenditure (Extraordinary)
(2) Subsidies (Subsidy to air transport enterprise).. 125,000
Under jurisdiction of
Education Department
The Imperial Universities
Revenue (Ordinary)
(2) Kyoto Imperial University:
Miscellaneous receipts
2,500
Expenditure (Ordinary)
(2) Kyoto Imperial University:
Salaries and school expenses....
2,500
University Fund Account:
Revenue
(2) Kyoto Imperial University:
Special fund received.
2,500
Expenditure
(2) Kyoto Imperial University:
Special fund disbursed..
2,500
The Government Universities
University Fund Account.
Revenue
(I) Maintenance fund revenue:
Revenue accruing from the sale of properties.... 7oo,000

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
Expenditure
(I) Maintenance fund expenditure:
Transferred to General Account
700,000
Under jurisdiction of
Department of Overseas
Affairs.
The Chosen Government-General
Revenue
(Extraordinary)
(8) Previous year's surplus transferred .....2,l07,496
Expenditure (Ordinary)
(3) The Chosen Government-General:
Salaries and office expenses..
22,363
(22) Revenue Superintendence Bureau
and Revenue Offices:
Salaries and office expenses
1,251
Total
23,614
Expenditure (Extraordinary)
(3) Investigation and experiment expenditure:
Investigation of anhydrous alcohol.
33,116
(4) Subsidies and bounties
159,522
(¥11,938 for industrial subsidy; ¥22,584 for
subsidiary grant on Chosen Forestry Exploitation
Company; ¥125,000 as subsidy to air transport
enterprise)
(7) Public work expenditure (Harbor works and
improvement)
1,500,000
(16) Temporary special allowances.
3,892
(19) Temporary control expenses.
307,169
(30) Natural disaster adjustment expenditure...
80,183
Total
2,083,882
Total expenditure.
2,107,496

=== Page 205 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
(Table 2)
Continuing Expenditure.
Under jurisdiction
of
Department of Overseas
Affairs.
The Chosen Government-General
Harbor Construction and
Improvement Expenditure:
Previously fixed total amount
¥45,603,629
Additional expenditure.
6,800,000
Total
52,403,629
of which
Disbursed up to end of 1936-37 fiscal year
6,122,629
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
46,281,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
9,611,000
Ditto
for 1938-39 fiscal year
9,560,000
Ditto
for 1939-40 fiscal year
8,780,000
Ditto
for 1940-41 fiscal yeer
7,610,000
Ditto
for 1941-42 fiscal year
4,200,000
Ditto
for 1942-43 fiscal year
3,300,000
Ditto
for 1943-44 fiscal year
3,220,000

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosu No 4 to despatch
No2513024,1937 from t
EXTRA BUDGET FOR 1937-38FISUAL TRAK
General Account
Department of Foreign Affairs.
Rental of land and buildings
for Foreign Missions.
Concerning the rental of land and buildings for foreign
missions (Embassies, Legations,etc.), the amount thereof as
under the existing contract may be reassessed, and new
contracts for their lease may be made or old contracts
may be renewed by fixing proper term of lease end annual
amount of rental, the total amount not exceeding ¥1,669,551
a year.
Department of Home Affairs.
Subsidies to Water-works expenditure.
The Department may make a contract with the Treasury for
an outlay to be borne by the Treasury apart from the expendi-
ture included in the general budget estimate on account of
subsidiary grants for water-works expenditure for Muroran City,
parts of Hyogo prefecture, parts of Niigata prefecture, parts of
Fukushima prefecture and part of Kagoshima prefecture, and also
for sewerage works expenditure fo the cities of Nishinomiya,
Shizuoka, Fukuoka and Naha. The total amount of the said sub-
sidies is fixed as ¥1,945, 000 which is to be disbursed in 25
fisoal years beginning l937-38 fiscal year, the amount of yearly
disbursement varying according to rate of progress of the
undertaking.
Subsidy to Ube Port Harbor Works
The Department may make a contract with the Treasury
for an outlay to be borne by the Treasury outside the expen-
diture included in the general budget estimate on account of the
grant of a subsidy to the expenditufor Ube Port harbor works.
The total amount of such subsidy is fixed as 1,589,900 which is
to be disbursed in 8 fiscal years beginning 1937-38 fiscal year.
Subsidy

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Subsidy to Hakata Harbor Works Expenditure.
The amount of expenditure to be defrayed as subsidiary
aid to Hakata harbor works expenditure in and after 1937-38
fiscal year is reassessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥132,800
1938-39 fiscal year
523,050
1939-40 fiscal year
508,740
1940-41 fiscal year
508,740
1941-42 fiscal year
571,240
1942-43 fiscal year
223,830
1943-44 fiscal year
205,968
1944-45 fiscal year
314,471
Grant for Payment of Interest on
Borrowings on account of Public Works Expenditure.
The amount of grant for payment of interest
on borrowings for the public works expenditure in Tottori
and six other prefectures in and after the 1937-38 fiscal
year is reassessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥921,345
1938-39 fiscal year
854,723
1939-40 fiscal year
801,137
1940-41 fiscal year
758,248
1941-42 fiscal year
715,204
1942-43 fiscal year
671,222
1943-44 fiscal year
596,769
1944-45 fiscal year
559,149
1945-46 fiscal year
522,165
1946-47 fiscal year
409,819
1947-48 fiscal year
331,008
1948-49.fiscal year
268,110
1949-50 fiscal year
244,854
1950-51 fiscal year
218,502
1951-52 fiscal year
200,273
1952-53 fisca1 year
170,622
1953-54 fiscal year
152,497
1954-55 fiscal year
134,281
1955-56 fiscal year
116,170
1957-58 fiscal year
81,329
1956-57 fiscal year
98,516
1958-59 fiscal year
66,083
1959-60 fiscal year
54,174
1960-61 fiscal year
53,149

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
The amount of grant for the payment of interest
on borrowings on account of public work expenditure for
Tottori prefecture to be defrayed in and after the 1937-38
fiscal year is reassessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥13,216
1938-39
17
13,216
1939-40
n
11
13,044
1940-41
1n
11
12,340
1941-42
1n
11,612
1942-43
"
11
10,863
1943-44
n
n
10,088
1944-45
n
n
9,288
1945-46
19
8,463
1946-47
n
"
7,612
1947-48
n
n
6,733
1948-49
n
n
5,824
1949-50
1"
8
4,888
1950-51
1"
n
3,920
1951-52
11
2,920
1952-53
11
n
1,888
1953-54
1"
11
824
Subsidies to Medium and Small River
Improvement Expenditure.
The amount of expenditure on account of subsidies in
aid of small and medium river improvement expenditure to be
disbursed in and after the 1937-38 fiscal year is reassessed
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥5,143,100
1938-39
n
11
4,554,150
1939-40
1"
1n
3,906,600
1940-41
11
1n
3,098,350
1941-42
1,703,000
1942-43
n
n
1,572,000
1943-44
1"
11
1,299,600
Subsidies to Local Harbor
Improvement Expenditure
The amount of expenditure to be defrayed as subsidies
to local harbor improvement expenditure works in and efter
the 1937-38 fiscal year is reassessed as follows:
1937-38 fisca1 year
¥1,285,000
1938-39
n
11
1,119,000
1939-40
11
n
805,400
1940-41
n
11
562,000
1941-42
n
1n
433,500
1942-43
300,500

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.93)
Grant for Payment of Interest on Exploitation
of Unreclaimed Private Land in Hokkaido
The amount of yearly disbursement of grant for the pay-
ment of interest on the exploitation of unreclaimed private
land in Hokkaido in and after the 1937-38 fiscal year is re-
assessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥142,523
1938-39
n
n
144,077
1939-40
140,449
1940-41
n
n
136,624
1941-42
n
n
132,388
1942-43
n
n
127,737
1943-44
n
122,735
1944-45
n
112,559
1945-46
11
112,204
1946-47
3
106,660
1947-48
n
n
100,930
1948-49
n
95,001
1949-50
n
88,866
1950-51
n
82,520
1951-52
n
75,954
1952-53
69,158
1953-54
62,094
1954-55
n
1"
54,857
1955-56
1f
47,333
1956-57
1"
n
39,551
1957-58
n
31,706
1958-59
11
1"
24,420
1959-60
n
11
17,919
1960-61
n
n
12,856
1961-62
9,283
1962-63
1n
n
6,835
1963-64
1n
n
4,546
1964-65
n
n
2,915
1965-66
n
n
1,379
1966-67
n
11
410
Subsidies to Buildings in anti-fire zone.
The amount of expenditure on account of subsidiary
grant on buildings in anti-fire zones in and after the
current (1937-38) fiscal year is reassessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥700,000
1938-39
n
1n
5,570,000

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
The Finance Department.
Grants-in-aid for Payment of Interest on
Loans advanced for shipbuilding purposes
and Indemnifications for losses culminating
therefrom.
The Department is authorized to make contracts with those
who accommodate others with necessary funds for shipbuilding pur-
poses to confer upon them grents-in-aid for the payment of inter-
est on such loans and also to allow indemnifications for the losses
they may sustain on account of such loans, on the terms and con-
ditions specified separately, the amount of such loans being,
however, limited to ¥70,000,000, with the rate of interest there-
of fixed at 3.7 per annum.
The Army Department.
Clothing and provisions expenditure;
Ordnance and Military Horse expenditure;
Military transport expenditure;
Fodder and ration expenditure;
Construction expenditure.
The Army Department is authorized to make a contract
with the Treasury for.the outlay of the aforementioned expen-
ditures which are to be borne by the Treasury in the 1938-39
fiscal year apart from the expenditures placed in the general
budget estimate. The amount of each item of the expenditures
is as follows:
¥4,838,000 for clothing and provisions;
¥6,632,000 for ordnance and military horses;
¥ 240,000 for military transport;
¥2,500,000 for fodder and rations (for troops
stationed in Manchuria);
¥12,000,000 for construction.
The Navy Department.
Shipbuilding, Ordnance and Repair expenditure:
Warship Maintenance expenditure:
Hydrographical expenditure;
The Navy Department is authorized to make a contract
with the Treasury for the outlay of the aforementioned expenditures.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
These expenditures are to be borne by the Treasury in the
1938-39 fiscal year apart from the expenditures placed in the
general budget estimate. The amount of each item of the said
expenditures is as follows ---
¥13,000,000 for shipbuilding, ordnance end repair;
¥10,000,000 for warship maintenance;
¥20,o00 for hydrographical expenditure.
The Department of Agriculture and Forestry.
Rental for Silk Conditioning Provisions.
The amount of expenditure to be defrayed annually as rental
for the lease of silk conditioning provisions in and after the
1937-38 fiscal year is revised as follows:
¥162,217 per year for the twenty years beginning the
1937-38 fiscal year (till the end of the 1957-58 fiscal
year).
Subsidies to Creation and Maintenance of Proprietary Farming.
The amount of expenditure to be defrayed annually as subsidies
for the creation and meintenance of proprietary farms in and after
the 1937-38 fiscal year (for 2? years, namely, till the end of
the 1966-67 fiscal year) is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥1,629,075
1938-39 to 1957-58 fiscal year......
.¥1,737,280each
1958-59 fiscal year
.¥1,587,067 year
1959-60 fiscal year
.¥1,317,071
1960-6l fiscal year
¥1,040,038
1961-62 fiscal year
908,118
1962-63 fisca1 year
776,198
1963-64 to 1966-67 fiscal year
602,993
Grants in aid of Payment of
Interest on Rice Storing Funds
The amount of expenditure on account of grants in aid of
the payment of interest on the rice storing funds to be dis-
bursed in the fiscal years 1937-38 and 1938-39 is revised as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥1,244,760
1938-39 fiscal year
902,000

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Subsidy to Rice Storage expenditure
The amount of expenditure on account of subsidies in aid
of the storage of rice and other cereals to be disbursed in the
fiscal years 1937-38 and 1938-39 is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥611,240
1938-39 fisca1 year
336,000
Subsidies to Flume and Drainage Trunk Line
Improvement expenditure.
The amount of annual expenditure to be disbursed as sub-
sidies to flume and drainage trunk line improvement under-
takings in and after the 1937-38 fiscal year is revised as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥3,580,369
1938-39 fiscal year
5,021,634
1939-40 fiscal year
3,791,983
1940-41 fiscal year
3,491,983
1941-42 fiscal year
3,466,983
1942-43 fiscal year
2,646,983
1943-44 to 1946-47 fiscal
year
172,563 each year
Subventions to Land Reclamation.
The amount of expenditure to be defrayed annually as sub-
ventions to land reclamation in and after the 1937-38 fiscal
year is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥3,949,900
1938-39 fiscal year
.3,042,400
1939-40 fiscal year
1,407,100
1940-41 fiscal year
957,100
1941-42 fiscal year
860,100
1942-43 fiscal year
429,600
Grants in aid for Payment of Interest
on Debts for Arable Land Adjustment Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury for an outlay of the amount not exceeding ¥1,oo0,000
in total as grants-in-aid of the payment of interest on debts
raised in connection with the arable land adjustment work, the
expenditure

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
expenditure to be borne by the Treasury apart from expen-
ditures included in the general budget estimate and the total
amount thereof to be disbursed in five consecutive years
at the rate of ¥200,000 each year.
Subsidy to Aomori Fishing Port Improvement Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with the
Treasury for an outlay of ¥485,000 as subsidy to the improvement
work of Aomori fishing port, the expenditure to be borne by the
Treasury spread over six consecutive years as specified below:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥60,000
1938-39 fiscal year
60,000
1939-40 fiscal year
60,000
1940-41 fiscal tear
90,000
1941-42 fiscal year
100,000
1942-43 fiscal year
115,000
Total
485,000
Subsidy to Kushimoto Fishing Port Improvement Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with the
Treasury for an outlay of ¥285,000 as subsidy to the improve-
ment work of Kushimoto fishing port, the expenditure to be
borne by the Treasury and to be disbursed in five consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fisca1 year
¥30,000
1938-39 fiscal year
50,000
1939-40 fiscal year
50,000
1940-41 fiscal year
80,000
1941-42 fisca1 year
75,000
Total
.¥285,000
Subsidy to Akune Fishing Port Improvement Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with the
Treasury for an outlay of ¥260,000 as subsidy to the improvement
work of Akune fishing port, the expenditure to be borne by
the Treasury and to be disbursed in five consecutive years as
follows:

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
1937-38 fiscal year
¥25,000
1938-39 fiscal year
50,000
1939-40 fiscal year
50,000
1940-41 fiscal year
70,000
1941-42 fiscal year
65,000
Total
260,000
Subsidy to Otsu Fishing Port Repair Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury for an outlay of ¥130,000 as subsidy to the
improvement work of Otsu fishing port, the expenditure to
be borne by the Treasury and to be disbursed in four con-
secutive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥20,000
1938-39 fiscal year
30,000
1939-40 fiscal year
30,000
1940-41 fiscal year
50,000
Total
130,000
Subsidy to Hamada Fishing Port Repair Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury for an outlay of ¥120,000 as subsidy to the
improvement work of Hamade fishing port, the expenditure
to be borne by the Treasury and to be disbursed in four
consecutive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥20,000
1938-39 fiscal year
30,000
1939-40 fiscal year
30,000
1940-41 fisca1 year
40,000
Total
.120,000
Subsidy to Shin-minato Fishing Port Repair Work.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury for an outlay of 1o0,000 as subsidy to the
Improvement of Shin-minato fishing port, the expenditure to
be borne by the Treasury and to be disbursed in four con-
secutive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year ........¥20,000
1938-39 fiscal year
30,000
1939-40 fiscal year
30,000
1940-41 fiscal year
20,000
Total
.100,000

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
Subsidy to Minor Fishing Port Repair Work.
The amount of fund to be expended defrayed on account
of subsidiary aids to the repair work of smaller fishing
ports in and after the 1937-38 fiscal year is revised as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥110,000
1938-39 fiscal year
160,000
1939-40 fiscal year
100,000
Subsidy to Choshi Fishing Port Repair Work.
The amount of funds to be defrayed on account of sub-
sidiary aids to the repair work of Choshi fishing port in
and after the 1937-38 fiscal year is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥200,000
1938-39 fiscal year
250,000
1939-40 fiscal year
250,000
1940-41 fiscal year
250,000
1941-42 fiscal year
190,000
Subsidy to Hiwasa Fishing Port Repair Work.
The amount of funds to be defrayed as subsidy to the
repair work of Hiwasa fishing port in and after the 1937-38
fiscal year is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥50,000
1938-39 fisca1 year
110,000
Subsidy to Minato Fishing Port Repair Work
The amount of expenditure on account of subsidiary aid
to the repair work of Minato fishing port in and after the
1937-38 fiscal year is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
......¥150,000
1938-39 fiscal year
300,000
1939-40 fiscal year
320,000
Subsidy to Tobata Fishing Port Repair Work.
The amount of funds to be defrayed an ually as
subsidy to the repair work of Tobata fishing port in and
after the 1937-38 fiscal year is revised as follows:

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
1937-38 fiscal year
.￥80,000
1938-39 fiscal year
150,000
Special Subvention for Agrarian Economic
Rehabilitation Work.
The amount to be defrayed as special subventions for
the economic rehabilitation of agrarian villages in and after
the 1937-38 fiscal year is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
........¥4,500,000
1938-39 fiscal year
2,500,000
Grants-in-aid of Payment of Interest on
Funds for.Operation of Agrarian Economic
Rehabilitation Program.
The amount of yearly expenditure on account of the
grants-in-aid of the payment of interest on the funds
borrowed for need of the operation of the agrarian village
economic rehabilitation plan in and after the 1:37-38
fiscal year is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
..¥59,400
1938-39 fiscal year
to 1940-41 fiscal year.105,600 each year
1941-42 fiscal year
96,600
1942-43 fiscal year
46,200
Subventions to Exploitation of Proprietary
Farms.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury for an outlay of the amount not exceeding
¥996,000 as subventions to the exploitation of proprietary
farmland, the expenditure to be borne by the Treasury and
to be disbursed in five consecutive years beginning 1938-39
fiscal year as specified hereunder:
1938-39 fiscal year ........¥391,200
1939-40 fiscal year and
1942-43
151,200 each year
Total
996,000
Subventions to Arable Land Undertakings
The emount of yearly expenditure to be disbursed as
subventions to the arable land exploitation undertakings in and
after the 1937-38 fiscal year is revised as follows:

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥9,220,014
1938-39 fiscal year
5,820,202
1939-40 fiscal year
1,631,193
Subventions to Devastated Forest Rehabilitation
Undertakings.
The amount of the yearly expenditure to be disbursed
in and after the 1937-38 fiscal year as subventions to the
devastated forest rehabilitation undertakings is re-
assessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year .........¥1,957,854
1938-39 fisca1 year
2,090,693
Subventions to Rohabilitation of
Fishing Interests in Horoizumi (Hokkaido)
PollutedaOils.
The amount of yearly expenditure to be disbursed in
and after the 1937-38 fiscal year as subventions to the
rehabilitation of fishing interests in Horoizumi district
(Hokkaido) which suffered from the oil pollution is revised
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥4,042
1938-39 fiscal year
3,718
1939-40 fiscal year
3,378
1940-41 fiscal year
3,022
1941-42-fiscal year
2,648
1942-43 fiscal year
2,257
1943-44 fiscal year
1,847
1944-45 fiscal year
1,417
1945-46 fiscal year.
967
1946-47 fiscal year.
495
The Department of Commerce end Industry
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury in the current(1937-38) fiscal year for an outlay
of the amount not exceeding ¥21,469,000 on account of export
indemnifications, the expenditure to be borne by the Treasury
as an extra budget expenditure which is to be disbursed in
six consecutive years beginning the 1937-38 fiscal year.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Bounties on Petroleum Oil Experimenting.
The Department is authorized to make a contract with
the Treasury for an outlay of the amount not excceding
¥3,712,000 intotal on account of the grant of bounties
on petroleum oil experimenting undertakings, the expen-
diture to be borne by the Treasury and to be disbursed in
six consecutive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
..¥692,150
1938-39 to 1941-42 fiscal year. 715,300 each year
1942-43 fiscal year
158,650
Total
.3,712,000
Subventions to Exploitation of Petroleum
Oil Resources in karafuto
The amount of annual disbursement of expenditure on
account of subventions to the exploitation of petroleum
oil resources in North Karafuto in and after the 1937-38
fiscal year is revised as follows :
1937-38 fiscal year
.￥ 2,172,000
1938-39 fisca1 year
2,440,000
1939-40 fisca1 year
1,888,000
1940-41 fiscal year
864,000
1941-42 fiscal year
216,000
Guaranty for North Karafuto Petroleum
Oil Company Debentures.
The amount of the Government guaranty on the North
Karafuto Petroleum Oil Compeny debentures (both principal
and interest), placed in the extra budget expenditure
approved at the 69th session of the Imperial Diet is in-
creased to ¥5,000,000 from ¥3,000,000.
Subsidy to International Commercial
Specimen Exhibition Hall.
The Department may make a contract with the Treasury for
an outlay of the sum not exceeding ¥4o0,000 on account of
subsidy to the establishment of an international commereial

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
specimen exhibition hall, the expenditure to be borne
by the Treasury and to be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥200,000
1938-39 fiscal year
100,000
1939-40 fiscal year
.100,000
Total
400,000
The Department of Communications.
Subsidy to North American Steamship Line:
Subsidy to South American Steamship Line.
The Department may make a contract with the Treasury
in the current (1937-38)fiscal year for the outlay of
the amount specified hereunder as subsidies to the North
and South American steamship lines according to the pro-
visions of the Deep Sea Navigation Subsidy Act, the expen-
diture to be borne by the Treasury and to be disbursed in
the 1938-39 fiscal year:
¥2,501,231 or less on North American route San
Francisco Line
¥1,190,521 or less on North American route Seattle
Line
¥1,035,314 or less on South American route East
Coast Line
¥408,670 or less on South American route West Coast
Line
Bounties on Experimental Manufacture
of Air Craft, Motors for air craft,etc.
The Department may make a contract with the Treasury
for an outlay of a sum not exceeding 1,o00,000 as bounties
on the experimental manufacture of air-craft, motors for air-
craft,etc., the expenditure to be borne by the Treasury
and to be disbursed in the two consecutive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥500,000
1938-39 fiscal year
500,000

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Subsidy to Air Transport Enterprise
on Tokyo-Dairen Route
The term (hitherto used) "Tokyo-Dairen and Osaka-
Shanghai Line Air Transport Enterprise Subsidy" is changed
into "Tokyo-Dairen Air Transport Enterprise Subsidy", and the
amount of yearly allotment of the expenditure for subsidiary
aids to be granted on the enterprise in the 1937-38 and en-
suing fiscal years is revised as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
.¥1,000,000
1938-39 fiscal year
830,000
1939-40 fiscal year
560,000
1940-41 fiscal year
440,000
1941-42 fiscal year.
340,000
(N.B. The conditions for the grant of the aforementioned sub-
sidy have also been revised.)
Subsidy to Air Transport Enterprise
on Tokyo-Singking Line.
The Department may make a contractwith the Treasury for
an outlay of a sum of ¥5,0l0,000 to be disbursed in five con-
secutive years beginning the 1937-38 fiscal year as sub-
sidiary aid to the air transport enterprise on the air route
between Tokyo and Singking(Manchukuo) on the terms and con-
ditions specified separately. The yearly allotment of the
expenditure is as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
¥1,070,000
1938-39 fiscal year
1,170,000
1939-40 fiscal year
950,000
1940-41 fiscal year
920,000
1941-42 fiscal year
900,000
Total
¥5,010,000
Subventions to Deep Sea Navigation
The Department may make
contracts with those engaged in
deep sea navigation, on the conditions specified separately,
for granting subventions, with a view to promoting the deep
sea navigation interests, to the extent not exceeding
¥10,434,000 for five years beginning the 1937-38 fiscal
year as follows:

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
1937-38 fiscal year
¥1,122,000
1938-39 fiscal year
2,328,000
1939-40 fiscal year
2,328,000
1940-41 fiscal year
2,328,000
1941-42 fisca1 year
2,328,000
1942-43 fisca1 year
2,328,000
Total
10,434,000
Subventions to Construction of Superior Ships.
The Department may make contracts with those
building new ships to grant subventions, with a view to
promoting the construction of superior vessels, to the
extent not exceeding ¥50,693,567 for a number of years as
specified hereunder:
For 1st-class ships (steel vessels each with over 6,0o0 tons
displacement, a speed of over 19 knots and with the
capacity to carry passengers of the number corresponding
to the square number of ship's length divided by 10o):
1937-38 fiscal year
20,813
1938-39 fiscal year
145,688
1939-40 fiscal year
588,484
1940-41 fiscal year
1,428,839
1941-42 fiscal year
2,543,999
1942-43 fiscal year
to 1953-54 fiscal year .3,293,880 each year
1954-55 fiscal year
3,184,084
1955-56 fiscal year
2,635,104
1956-57 fiscal year
1,207,756
Total
44,693,567
For 2nd-class ships ( steel vessels each with the capacity
to carry no more than 12 passengers)
1937-38 fiscal year
. ¥380,000
1938-39 fiscal year
.1,820,000
1939-40 fiscal year
.2,000,000
1940-41 fiscal year
.1,800,000
Total
6,000,000

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure
to despatcl
BUDGET TABLL "B"
No 2513 01 July 24,1937 frmth
For Home Affairs Department:
Riparian Work Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount.
706,379,001
Decreased amount
381,600
Additional expenditure.
49,891,540
Net total
755,888,941
Of which disbursed by end of
1936-37 fiscal year ....
551,960,337
Amount to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
203,928,604
(figure being composed of
¥10,246,546 of office expenses,
¥165,369,129 of river improvement
expenses and ¥28,312,929 of sand
arrestation expenses)
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year --
24,914,613
the figure being apportioned as
follows:
(office expenses
1,375,345)
(river improvement.
20,302,274)
(sand arrestation
3,236,994)
(Figures of allotments for 1938-39 and subse-
quent 17 years fiscal years omitted here)
Kobe Harbor Improvement Work Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount.
40,816,930
Additional expenditure.
12,700,000
Total
53,516,930
Of which disbursed by end of
1936-37 fiscal year
40,006,930
Amount to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year....
15,510,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
910,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
950,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
950,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
950,000
Ditto for 1941-42 fiscal year
950,000
(The allotment for the remaining ten years is
omitted here, the figures for them being the
same as the last named fiscal year, except
the figure for 1949-50 fiscal year which is
¥250,000)
Yokohama Harbor Improvement Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount.
25,752,245
Additional expenditure.
2,000,000
Total
27,752,245
of

=== Page 223 === (confidence 1.00)
Amount to be disbursed in and after
5,510,000
1937-38 fiscal year
550,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 194l-42-fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
550,000
Ditto for 1944-45 fiscal year
300,000
Ditto for 1945-46 fiscal year
Ditto for 1946-47 fiscal year
300,000
Ditto for 1947-48 fiscal year
300,000
Ditto for 1948-49 fiscal year
210,000
Shimonoseki Harbor Improvement Expenditure:
Total amount to be disbursed in six consecutive years
.5,006,000
beginning 1937-38 fiscal year.
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
400,000
Ditto
for 1938-39 fiscal year
900,000
Ditto
for 1939-40 fiscel year
900,000
Ditto
for 1940-41 fiscal year
900,000
Ditto
for 1941-42 fiscal year
900,000
Ditto
for 1942-43 fiscal year
1,006,000
Hakata Harbor Improvement Expenditure:
4,044,331
Previously fixed amount.
Additional expenditure
2,880,000
6,924,331
Total
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
4,044,331
year...
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38..
2,880,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
250,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
660,000
Ditto.for 1940-4l fiscal year
660,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
660,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
650,000
Ditto for 1939-40fiscal year
660,000
Wakayama Harbor Improvement Expenditure:
Previously fixed emount.
2,240,000
Of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fisdal
year..
1,400,000
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year .
840,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
420,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
420,000
Ube Harbor Improvement Expenditure:
Total amount.
3,179,800
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
222,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
420,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
420,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
420,000

=== Page 224 === (confidence 1.00)
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
420,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
420,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
420,000
Ditto for 1944-45 fiscal year
437,800
National Road Improvement Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount.
20,337,657
Additional expenditure.
9,964,000
Total
30,301,657
Of which disbursed by end of 1936-37
fiscal year ...
3,907,657
Amount to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
26,394,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
4,823,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
5,300,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
5,300,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
5,141,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
4,293,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
1,537,000
Hokkaido Land Improvement Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount
47,572,467
Additional expenditure.
1,054,390
Total
48,626,857
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37
fiscal year.
43,366,005
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
5,260,852
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
2,494,495
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,171,367
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
878,884
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
608,227
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
107,879
Hokkaido Riparian Work Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount.
75,725,777
Decreased amount.
666,564
Additional amount.
688,300
Total
81,942,213
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
49,415,006
amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
32,527,207
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
3,870,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
4,650,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
4,500,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
5,000,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
4,883,500
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
3,252,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
2,640,000
Ditto for 1944-45 fiscal year
2,588,957
Ditto for 1945-46 fiscal year
752,750
Ditto for 1946-47 fiscal year
390,000

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Hokkaido Harbor Expenditure:
Previously fixed amount.
93,432,074
Additional expenditure.
2,271,939
Total.
95,704,013
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year.
74,291,150
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
21,412,863
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
2,979,195
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
2,870,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
2,736,996
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
2,696,840
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
2,662,500
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
2,600,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
1,886,352
Ditto for 1944-45 fiscal year
1,300,000
Ditto for 1945-46 fiscal year
1,350,000
Ditto for 1946-47 fiscal yeer
330,980
Expenditure for Creation of National
Sanatorium for Tuberculosis:
Total amount..
2,500,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
500,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
500,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
500,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
500,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
500,000
Expenditure for Repair of Atsuta Shrine and two
other state shrines:
Previously fixed amount.
1,900,000
Additional expenditure.
80,000
Total
1,980,000
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year.....
1,200,000
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year..
780,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
270,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
280,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
230,000
Expenditure for Repair of Ikushima-Tarushima
Shrine and two other state shrines:
Total amount..
562,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
106,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
110,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
110,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
120,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
116,000

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5-
Expenditure for riparian work on Kuniba River:
Total amount.
432,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
50,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
100,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
100,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
100,000
Ditto for 1941-42 fiscal year
82,000
Expenditure for Improvement of Chosui Harbor:
Total amount.
300,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
30,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal yeer
45,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
45,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
45,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
45,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
45,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
45,000
Expenditure for Improvement of Wadomari Harbor:
Total amount.
225,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
20,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
40,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal yeer
40,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
40,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
40,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
40,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
5,000
For Department of Finance
Expenditure for Shore Arrangements of Kobe
Customs-House:
9,947,374
Previously fixed amount.
ditto
Amount disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year....
9,128,706
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
818,668
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
702,398
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year.
116,270
Expenditure for Creation of Nagoya Customs-House:
Total amount
544,797
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
100,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
454,797

=== Page 227 === (confidence 1.00)
6
Expenditure for Reconstruction of Building of
Military Staff College:
Total amount.
3,539,747
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
668,284
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year.
1,553,404
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year.
291,565
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year.
605,749
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
78,611
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
342,134
Expemditure for Construction of Cartographical
Factory of Naval Aviation Department:
Total amount ..
850,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
270,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
470,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
110,000
Expenditure for Construction of second
dormitory for housing students of Naval
Intendant School:
Total amount
450,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
150,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year.
300,000
Expenditure for Construction of new offices of
Public-Procurator's Office in Tokyo District
Criminal Court(District):
Total amount.
422,165
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
79,423
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
342,742
Expenditure for Reconstruction of Main Building
of Third High School:
Total amount
214,987
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
50,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
164,987
Expenditure for Construction of Buildings of
Tokyo Higher Dental College Hospital:
Total amount.
910,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
350,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
460,000
Exponditure for Construction of Building
of Technological Training Institute:
Total amount.
731,390

=== Page 228 === (confidence 1.00)
-7 -
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
150,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
581,390
Expenditure for Construction of new building of
Mechanical Laboratory:
1,214,685
Total amount
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
500,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
714,685
Expenditure for Construction of
Textile Industry Laboratory:
Total amount..
1,208,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
200,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
658,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
350,000
Expenditure for Creation of new Post-offices:
Previously fixed amount.
3,844,967
Additional expenditure
866,436
Total amount.
4,711,403
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
3,052,948
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
1,658,455
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,046,967
Expenditure for Creation of Public Health Con-
sultation Office attached to Industrial Life
Insurance Bureau:
Previously fixed amount.
336,709
Additional expenditure.
103,922
440,631
Total
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
296,678
Amount to be disbursed in end after 1937-38
fiscal year
143,953
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
117,992
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscel year
25,961
Expenditure for Enlargement of Testing Room and
other equipment of Ship Inspection Institute:
Total amount.
477,500
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
220,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
157,500
Expenditure for Creation of Aeronautical Experi-
ment Institute attached to Department of
Communications:
Total amount:.
3,500,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
600,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,700,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
1,200,000

=== Page 229 === (confidence 1.00)
8
Expenditure for Post-quake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation:
Previously fixed amount.
92,380,771
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fical
year......
81,493,534
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
10,887,237
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
2,334,561
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
2,353,969
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
2,357,224
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
1,518,673
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
678,122
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
869,425
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
775,263
For Army Department
Expenditure for Replenishment o f Defense Provisions:
Previously fixed amount.
1,276,655,104
Decreased amount.
34,513,208
Additional expenditure
900,000,000
Total amount.
2,142,141,896
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year...
889,415,517
(of which expended in adjustment and com-
pletion of fortifications......
42,151,475
and expended in adjustment and completion
of ordnance and others.
1,210,574,904
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
1,252,726,379
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal yeer
(Figure is composed of ¥42,151,475 for adjust-
ment and completion of fortifications and
¥1,210,574,904 for adjustment and completion
of ordnance,etc.)
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal yeer
108,124,501
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
140,845,875
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
149,546,325
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
192,244,795
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
221,964,883
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
258,000,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
182,000,000
Expenditure for Post-quake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
of Military barradks and other buildings:
Previously fixed amount.
42,544,659
Decreased amount.
1,091,619
Net total.
41,453,040
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year
35,934,636
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
5,518,404
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
558,806
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
501,936
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
491,936
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
289,271

=== Page 230 === (confidence 1.00)
9
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
453,611
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
835,009
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
788,730
Ditto for 1944-45 fiscal year
682,298
Ditto for 1945-46 fiscal year
528,159
Ditto for 1947-48 fiscal year
389,178
Expenditure for Reconstruction of Military Arsenal
and other post-quake rehabiliation work:
Previously fixed amount.
46,114,021
Decreased amount.
165,444
Net total
45,948,577
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year .....
42,843,052
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
3,105,525
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
703,305
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,140,595
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
596,790
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
290,835
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
374,000
Expenditure for Adjustment and Repletion of
manoeuvre grounds, target practice grounds,
bridging practice grounds and other practice
grounds:
Previously fixed amount.
18,852,230
Additional expenditure.
10,186,592
Total
29,038,822
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year
8,449,349
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
20,589,473
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
3,086,446
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
3,220,156
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
2,815,802
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
3,068,622
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
2,756,105
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
2,642,342
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
3,000,000
Expenditure for Reorganization of Air Force and other:
Previously fixed amount..
66,960,715
Part of Defence Replenishment Expenditure
(previously fixed amount for same)
34,425,096
Additional expenditure.
352,834,257
Total
454,220,068
Of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
39,746,951
year
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year ....
414,473,117
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
83,982,139
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
130,710,935
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
96,468,039
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
43,394,722
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
36,475,878
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
14,791,655
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
8,649,749

=== Page 231 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
Expenditure for Armament Improvement:
Previously fixed amount.
87,960,729
Decreased amount.
350,000
Additional expenditure.
127,861,317
Total expenditure..
215,472,046
Of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year
32,307,318
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
183,164,728
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
34,968,306
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
47,142,624
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
50,900,033
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
28,996,102
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
14,983,270
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
6,066,670
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
107,723
Expenditure for Repletion of War Supplies:
Total amount.
10,000,000
To be disbursed in six consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
1,600,000
1938-39 fiscal year
1,600,000
1939-40 fiscal year
1,600,000
1940-41 fiscal year
1,600,000
1941-42 fiscal year
1,600,000
1942-43 fiscal year
2,000,000
For Navy Department
Expenditure for Warship Construction:
Previously fixed amount.
1,392,644,469
Decreased emount.
24,000,000
Additional expenditure.
861,067,826
Total
2,229,712,295
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year......
1,235,224,469
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
994,487,826
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
218,195,826
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
224,092,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
232,392,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
229,057,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
90,751,000
Expenditure for Repletion and Completion of
Arrangements on sea and ashore:
Previously fixed amount.
322,148,030
Additional expenditure
86,309,600
Total
408,457,630

=== Page 232 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year.
320,148,030
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
88,309,600
(Last mentioned figure is apportioned as follows
according to purposes for which the expenditure
is intended: ¥2,056,980 as office expenses;
¥62,144,439 as expenses for various workshop pro-
visions and equipment; ¥8,176,652 as expenses for
defense corps provisions; ¥4,907,900 as expenses
for miscellaneous provisions of naval ports; ¥1o,
751,929 as expenses for educational organ provisions;
¥271,700 as expenses for hospital provisions)
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
¥59,567,600
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year.
21,525,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
5,867,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
1,100,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
250,000
Expenditure for Air Force Provisions:
Previously fixed amount
¥144,713,741
Additional expenditure
75,267,724
Total
219,981,465
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37
fical year ....
144,713,741
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
75,267,724
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
26,876,724
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
16,980,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
16,561,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
14,850,000
Expenditure for Warship Conversion:
Previously fixed amount.
251,878,257
Additional expenditure
111,943,248
Total
363,821,505
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year....
247,672,167
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
116,149,338
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
41,550,858
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
39,928,480
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
26,715,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
6,555,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
1,400,000
Expenditure for Specified Repairs of Warships:
Previously fixed amount.
14,505,000
Additional expenditure
26,750,000
Total
41,255,000

=== Page 233 === (confidence 1.00)
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year
14,505,000
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year....
26,750,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
11,225,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
7,530,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fisca1 year
7,995,000
Expenditure for Replacement of Secondary
Battery for Submarines:
Previously fixed amount.
5,622,216
Additional expenditure
3,567,417
Total
9,189,633
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year.
5,622,216
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
3,567,417
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
739,045
Ditto for 1938-39 fisca] year
739,044
Ditto for 1039-40 fiscal year
848,424
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
1,240,904
Expenditure for Replenishment of War Supplies:
Total amount.
25,092,750
To be disbursed in five consecutive years
as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
18,922,750
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,440,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
1,640,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
1,840,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
1,250,000
Expenditure for Reserve Oil Field Experimenting:
Total amount to be disbursed in two consecutive
years(1937-38 and 1938-39 fiscal years).
1,420,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
710,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
710,000
Expenditure for Studyand Research as to ship's
hull, engines and ordnance:
Previously fixed amount.
8,459,000
Additional expenditure.
9,580,000
Total......
18,039,000
of which disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
8,459,000
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
9,580,000
fiscal year ....
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
6,680,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,100,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
600,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
600,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
600,000

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
For Department of Justice
Expenditure for Removal and Construction
of Kobe Prison:
Previously fixed amount.
2,271,403
of which disbursed during 1936-37 fiscal
year.
146,050
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
2,125,353
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
258,005
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
310,598
Ditto for i939-40 fiscal year
313,709
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
315,974
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
310,684
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year.
312,979
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
303,404
Expenditure for Removal end Construction of Mito Prison:
Total amount of expenditure.
607,822
To be disbursed in five consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
120,000
1938-39 fisca1 year
147,500
1939-40 fisca1 year
147,500
1940-41 fisca1 year
147,500
1941-42 fiscal year
45,322
For Department of Education
Expenditure for aerometeorological observation
provisions:
Total emount (mainly involved in the erection
of aerometeorological observatory) .......6l2,103
To be disbursed in tvwo consecutive years as
follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.....
400,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
212,103
Expenditure for establishment of Tohoku
(North-eastern Meteorological Observatory)
Total amount
242,554
To be disbursed in two consecutive years as
follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
50,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
192,554

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Expenditure for Construction of Class-rooms
of Aero-technology at Yokohema Higher Poly-
technical School:
Total amount of expenditure.....
476,670
To be disbursed in three consecutive years
as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
200,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
176,670
Expenditure for Post-quake Reconstruction and
Rohabilitation Work of Tokyo Imperial University:
Previously fixed amount.
72,600,836
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year.
60,810,580
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
11,790,256
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
1,992,197
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,883,840
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
1,868,340
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
2,077,362
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
2,127,190
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
1,841,327
Expenditure for Establishment of Hospital attached
to Tokyo Higher Dental College:
Total amount.
90,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows.....
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
30,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
30,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
30,000
For Department of Agriculture
and Forestry:
Expenditure for Forestry Riparian Work:
Total amount of expenditure.........
77,550,000
Above figure composed of ¥7,893,347 for
office expenses, ¥16,054,620 for under-
taking expenditure and ¥53,552,033 of en-
couragement funds and indemnification
funds, the whole to be disbursed in 12 con-
secttive years, i.e., the undertaking spread
over twelve consecutive fiscal years beginning
1937-38 fiscal year, as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year .....5,327,347
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
.6,620,258
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year.
       •
6,579,733
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
6,535,527
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
6,502,581

=== Page 236 === (confidence 1.00)
-15-
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
6,502,581
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
6,502,581
Ditto for 1944-45 fiscal year
6,502,581
Ditto for 1945-46 fiscal year
6,492,816
Ditto for 1946-47 fiscal year
6,296,466
Ditto for 1947-48 fiscal year
7,134,948
Expenditure for North-eastern District Exploitation and
Reclamation Work (a State Undertaking):
Total amount intended as a State undertaking spread
over seven consecutive years beginning 1937-38
fiscal year at the above mentioned cost, which
is to be disbursed in seven years as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
138,787
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
540,620
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
535,020
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
535,020
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
535,020
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
535,020
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
535,020
Expenditure for natural disaster prevention
forestry arrangements:
Total amount
5,000,000
To be disbursed in five consecutive
years as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
850,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,000,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
1,000,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
1,000,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
1,150,000
For Department of Commerce
and Industry:
Expenditure for Establishment of Mechanical
Experiment Institute (Laboratory)
Total amount
2,600,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive years
as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.....
600,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,000,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
1,000,000
Expenditure for Establishment of Textile Industry
Experiment Institute (Laboratory):
Total amount
992,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive years
as follows:

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
200,000
Ditto for 1938-39
fiscal year
500,000
Ditto for 1939-40
fiscal year
292,000
For Department of Communications:
Expenditure for Erection and Repair of
Beacons,etc.:
Total amount..
1,000,000
The above figure composed of ¥25,800 for
salaries and ¥974,200 undertaking ex-
penses, the whole to be disbursed in three
consecutive years as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal yeer....
400,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
300,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
300,000
Expenditure for Establishment and Completion
(Repletion) of Aviation Grounds in Different
Places:
Total amount..
4,364,593
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year....
1,600,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
2,014,593
• • • • •
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year.
750,000
Expenditure for Aeronautical Experiment Provision:
Total emount
2,301,761
The above amount to be disbursed in three con-
secutive years as follows:
The above amount to be disbursed in three
consecutive years as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
339,040
Ditto for 1938-39
fiscal year
599,422
Ditto for 1939-40
fiscal year
1,363,299

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
Euclosure No
6
deepetch
Nog513guy 24, 1937 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
SPECIAL ACCOUNT BUDGET
Special Accounts.
The revenue and expenditure belonging to the Special
Accounts in the 1937-38 fiscel year are those for the items
enumerated hereunder:
Chinese Cultural Undertaking (under control of the
Education Department);
Health Insurance and Laborers Accident Relief Insurance
(under control of the Department of Home Affairs);
The Mint; the Printing Bureau; the Monopoly; the Exchequer
Deposit Department; the Educational Funds; the National
Debt Amortization Funds; the National Loans; the State
Property Adjustment Funds; the Educational Improvement
and Agrarian Development Funds; the Kwantung Office (all
under control of the Department of Finance);
The Military Arsenal and the Army Woolen Factory (under
control of the Army Department);
The Naval Arsenal Funds: the Naval Gunpowder Factory and
the Naval Fuel Depot(all under control of the Navy Depart-
ment);
The Imperial Universities; the Government Universities;
the Schools and Libraries (all under control of the Educa-
tion Department);
Funds for Adjustment of Demand for and Supply of Rice;
Ditto for Raw Silk Price Stabilization ; Forest Fire In-
surance; Fishing Craft Reinsurance; Live Stock Rein-
surance (all under con trol of the Departmentfor Agriculture
and Forestry);
Industrial Life Insurance; Post Office Annuities(all
under control of the Conmunications Department);
The Imperial Railways (under control of the Department
of Railways);
The Chosen Government-General; the Chosen Railway Supplies
Funds; the Chosen Industrial Life Insurance; the Taiwan

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Taiwan Government-General; the Taiwan Government Railway
Supplies Funds; the Karafuto Office; the South Sea Islands
Office (all under control of the Department of Overseas Affairs).
The amount of each item of revenue and empenditure under
the Special Account Budget shall be as apportioned in the an-
nexed table.
Special Account.
(figures in unit of yen)
Under control of the Department of Foreign Affairs.
Cultural Undertakings in China.
Revenue:
1. Reimbursement receipts..........¥46,710,590
2. Revenue accruing from employ-
ment of funds.....
618,960
3. Miscellaneous receipts.
2,799,479
Total
50,129,029
Expenditure:
1. Cultural undertaking expenses..
3,794,366
2. Reserve fund (lst reserve fund)..
10,000
Total
3,804,366
Under control of the Department of Home Affairs.
Health Insurance.
Revenue:
1. Insurance Premium receipts....... 31,364,380
2. Received from General Account
(Treasury's share in health in-
surance)..........
1,746,670
Total
33,111,050
Expenditure:
1. Insurance undertaking expenses..
31,197,289
2. Transfer to General Account.
179,663
3. Reserve funds (lst reserve)
1,734,098
Total.
33,111,050
Laborers Accident Relief Insurance
Revenue:
1. Premium receipts
2,338,518
2. Funds brought over from previous
year(transferred)
1,212,917
Total
3,551,435
Under

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Under control of the Finance Department
The Mint
Revenue:
1. Incomes from works
18,612,872
2. Miscellaneous receipts
17,277
Total
18,630,149
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works
8,950,706
2. Reserve funds(lst reserve)
1,500
Total
8,952,206
The Fund Department
(of the Mint)
Revenue.
14,137,962
Expenditure
18,595,607
The Printing Bureau
Revenue:
1. Revenue from works.
12,124,302
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
30,919
Total
12,155,221
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works....
9,178,310
2. Reserve funds (lst reserve)..
20,000
Total
9,198,310
The Monopoly Bureau
Revenue:
1. Revenue from works...
440,536,270
2. Miscellaneous receipts
928,710
Total
441,464,980
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works.
204,401,922
2. Reserve funds(lst reserve)
3,000,000
Total
207,401,922

=== Page 241 === (confidence 1.00)
The Exchequer Deposit Department.
Revenue:
1. Revenue accruing from employment of
funds.....
180,872,082
2. Received from General Account.
1,122,000
3. Miscellaneous receipts.
28,014
Total.
182,022,096
Expenditure:
1. Deposit Department expenditure-138,209,424
(including office expenses, interest on
deposits, losses of funds employed, the
department's share in pensions, sundry ex-
penses,etc.)
2. Reserve funds (lst reserve)
10,000
Total.
138,219,424
Educational Funds.
Revenue:
Interest receipts
20,439
The National Debt Amortization Funds.
Revenue:
National debt amortization ex fund received.
.5,579,866,767
Expenditure:
National debt amortization expenditure... 5,579,866,767
The Public Loans.
Revenue:
Revenue accruing from loans.
913,823,677
Expenditure:
1. Transferred to General Account..
770,823,677
2. Transferred to Chosen Government-
General Special Account.
65,000,000.
3. Transferred to Imperial Railway
Special Account....
42,000,000
4. Transferred to Communications under-
taking Special Account.
36,000,000
Total
913,823,677

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
The State Property Adjustment Funds.
Revenue:
1. Revenue accruing from the sale of
State properties.
5,521,532
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
140,485
Total
5,662,017
Expenditure:
Transfer to General Account.....
4,722,017
The Educational Improvement and
Agrarian Development Funds.
Revenue:
Interest receipt.....
6,716,237
Expenditure:
Transfer to General Account.
7,495,307
The Kwantung Office.
Revenue:
Ordinary Revenue:
1. Taxes.....
8,668,021
2. Revenue accruing from Government
undertakings and Government pro-
perties
8,654,449
3. Stamp duty revenue
1,168,651
4. Miscellaneous receipts.
891,196
Total
19,382,317
Extraordinary Revenue:
1. Revenue accruing from the sale of
Government-owned articles.
569,766
2. Contributions..
65,000
3. Temporary profit tax revenue.
351,000
4. Supplementary funds.
502,000
5. Surplus of previous year transferred. 5,193,598
Total
6,681,364
Grand total (both ordinary and extraordinary)
19,063,681
Expenditure:
Ordinary:
1. Kwantung Office expenses (Salaries, office
expenses, other expenses and secret funds)2,335,421

=== Page 243 === (confidence 1.00)
6
2. Courts of justice and prisons(Salaries, Office
and other expenses).
594,278
3. Police expenses(Salaries, office expenses,etc)..
4,509,215
4. Educational expenses(Salaries, office expenses,
etc.)
2,793,088
5. Industrial expenditure(Salaries and undertakings)..
443,471
6. Monopoly Bureau (Salaries, underteking expenses,
etc.)
1,527,767
7. Commuhications expenses (Salaries and under-
taking expenses)
3,331,044
8. Maritime Affairs Bureau (Salaries, office expenses,
quarantine expenses,etc.).
222,277
9. Hospitals and Medical relief provisions(salaries
and office expenses)..
126,131
10. Rental of land and buildings.
121,981
11. Epidemic prevention expenses.
35,254
12. Transferred to National Debt Amortization Fund
Special Account.
692,207
13. Share in pensions.
1,336,697
14. Miscellaneous expenditures
74,705
15. Reserve funds
412,500
(Reserve(1st) -- 150,000; reserve(2nd)
262,500)
Total ordinary expenditure.....
18,556,018
Extraordinary:
1. Construction and repair expenditure.
2,412,771
2. Subsidies.....
722,572
3. Expenditure for encouragement of study of
Chinese language....
9,889
4. Temporary policing expenses.
275,715
5. Expenses for investigation of taxation system..
65,694
6. Schooling expenses and temporary additional al-
lowances for officials studying abroad.
8,431
7. Foreign exchange control expenses.....
53,621
8. Manchurian Affair expenditure.
2,342,374
9. National census taking expenses.
23,962
10. Expenses for collection of temporary profit tax..
10,134
11. Expenses in connection ith transfer of adminis-
trative right in South Manchuria Railway zone..
30,000
12. Transfer to General Account.
1,500,000
13. Fraction of "Special Retirement Allowance Loan".
52,500
Total extraordinary expenditure.
7,507,663
Grand total of expenditure.
26,063,681

=== Page 244 === (confidence 1.00)
- 7-
Under control of the Army Department.
The Military Arsenal
Revenue:
1. Revenue from works
169,910,342
2. Miscellaneous receipts
455,426
Total
170,365,768
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works (including salaries
undertaking expenditure, pensions,etc)
150,320,768
2. Reserve funds.
20,045,000
Total.
170,365,768
The Army Woolen Factory
Revenue:
1. Revenue from works.
7,060,275
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
17,267
Total
7,077,542
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works.
5,538,716
2. Reserve funds...
1,533,000
Total
7,071,716
Under control of the Navy Department
The Naval Arsenal Fund
Revenue:
1. Proceeds of raw materials and articles sold
102,365,470
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
10,600
Total
102,376,070
Expenditure:
Expenditure for purchase of raw materials and
articles
101,560,125
The Naval Gunpowder Depot.
Revenue:
1. Revenue from works.
7,990,041
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
33,738
Total
8,023,779
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works (including salaries,
pensions, undertaking expenses,etc).. 8,002,310

=== Page 245 === (confidence 1.00)
2. Miscellaneous expenses.
11,469
3. Reserve funds.
10,000
Total
8,023,779
The Naval Fuel Depot
Revenue:
1. Revenue from works...
33,881,556
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
120,998
Total
34,002,554
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on works (including sala-
ries, pensions and undertaking ex-
33,526,591
2. Miscellaneous expenses.
254,670
3. Reserve funds..
10,000
Total
33,791,261
Under control of the Education Department.
The Imperial Universities.
Revenue:
Ordinary:
1. Tokyo Imperial University.
8,308,418
2. Kyoto Imperial University.
4,754,142
3. Tohoku Imperial University.
2,995,192
4. Kyushu Imperial University.
3,476,787
5. Hokkaido Imperial University
3,370,225
6. Osaka Imperial University.
853,629
Total ordinary revenue
22,550,853
(N.B.) The aforementioned ordinary revenue
consists of Government disbursement and
other miscellaneous receipts)
Extraordinary:
1. Tokyo Imperial University.
1,597,485
2. Kyoto Imperial University.
1,110,077
3. Tohoku Imperial University
335,120
4. Kyushu Imperial University
460,401
5. Hokkaido Imperial University
392,662
6. Osaka Imperial University.
853,629
Total extraordinary revenue....... 4,749,374
Grand total (revenue).
.30,300,227
N.B. the extraordinary revenue comprises tempo-
rary Government disbursement received, the
university funds transferred, public contribu-
tions or donations for specially designated
purposes, indemnification revenue, temporary
revenue from experimental farms,etc.)

=== Page 246 === (confidence 1.00)
- 9
Expenditure:
Ordinary
I. Tokyo Imperial University.
8,308,418
2. Kyoto Imperial University
4,754,142
3. Tohoku Imperial University.
2,995,192
4. Kyushu Imperial University
3,476,787
5. Hokkaido Imperial University
3,370,225
6. Osaka Imperial University.
2,646,089
Total
25,550,853
(N.B. The above mentioned ordinary expenditure
covers salaries, school expenses, pensions and
miscellaneous expenditures)
Extraordinary:
1. Tokyo Imperial University.
1,597,485
2. Kyoto Imperial University
1,110,077
3. Tohoku Imperial University
335,120
4. Kyushu Imperial University.
460,401
5. Hokkaido Imperial University
392,662
6. Osaka Imperial University.
853,629
Total.
4,749,374
Grand Total.
30,300,227
(N.B. The above mentioned extraordinary expenditure
for Imperial universities covers expenditures
for construction of new buildings, reconstruction,
enlargement, repair, equipments, etc. and expen-
diture for specially designated purposes)
Imperial Universities Fund Department:
Reveue:
1. Tokyo Imperial University.
1,885,690
2. Kyoto Imperial University.
543,387
3. Tohoku Imperial University.
200,100
4. Kyushu Imperial University.
615,406
5. Hokkaido Imperial University.
307,767
6. Osaka Imperial University.
1,017,624
Total.
4,569,884
(N.B. The above mentioned revenue consists of main-
tenance funds and special funds granted or defrayed
by the Government)
Expenditure:
1. Tokyo Imperial University.
1,885,690
2. Kyoto Imperial University.
543,387
3. Tohoku Imperial University.
200,010
4. Kyushu Imperial University.
615,406
5. Hokkaido Imperial University
307,767
6. Osaka Imperial University
1,017,624
Total
4,569,884

=== Page 247 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
(N.B. The aforementioned extraordinary expenditure
for Imperial universities comprises maintenance
funds and special funds defrayed by the Government,
both to be expended for the designated purposes)
The Government Universities.
Revenue:
Ordinary:
1. Government grant received.
6,207,676
2. Government grant on account of training
of industrial school teachers.
17,794
3. Miscellaneous receipts.
5,114,133
Total
11,339,603
Extraordinary:
1. Temporary grants from Government.
889,146
2. University funds transferred.
631,646
3. Public donations for specially designated
47,000
purposes
Total
1,567,792
Grand total
12,907,395
Expenditure:
Ordinary: (Salaries, school expenses, salaries
and allowances to foreign teachers,
pensions, miscellaneous expenses,etc.)
11,339,603
Extraordinary:
1. Construction end repair expenses......
1,445,792
2. Removal of Tokyo Polytechnical
College.
15,000
3. Natural disaster demage rehabilitation
expenditure......
50,000
4. Expenditure for specially designated
purposes.
47,000
Total.
1,567,792
Grand total.
12,907,395
The Government Universities Fund Department
Revenue:
1. Maintenance revenue.
437,477
2. Special Fund revenue.
312,723
Total.
750,200
Expenditure:
1. Maintenance fund defrayed.
987,646
2. Special fund defrayed.
312,520

=== Page 248 === (confidence 1.00)
-11 -
Total
1,300,166.
Schools and Libraries.
Revenue:
Ordinary:
1. Government grant received.
12,792,851
2. Government grant for training of
industrial school teachers.....
37,591
3. Government grant for training of blind
and mute school teachers......
59,614
4. Miscellaneous receipts.
4,736,209
Total
17,626,265
Extraordinary:
1. Temporary grant by Government re-
ceived.....
160,000
2. Public donations for specially
designated purposes..
28,000
Total.
188,000
Grand total.
17,814,265
Expenditure:
Ordinary:
Salaries, school (or office) expenses,
salaries and allowances for foreign
teachers, pensions and miscellaneous
expenditures.......
.17,626,265
Extraordinary:
1. Expenditure for various provisions
and equipment.
160,000
2. Expenditures for specially desig-
nated purposes..
28,000
Total.
188,000
Grand total.
17,814,265
Schools and Libraries Fund Department
Revenue:
1. Maintenance fund received
143,200
2. Special funds received.
164,195
Total.
307,395
Expenditure:
1. Maintenance fund disbursed on
account of purchase....of
supplies..
2,126,338
2. Disbursements from special fund.
167,780
Total.
2,294,118

=== Page 249 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
Under control of the Department of
Agriculture and Forestry.
For Regulation of Demand and
Supply of Rice.
Revenue:
Revenue accruing from sale of rice, borrowings,
miscellaneous receipts, etc. 171,665541
Expenditure:
1. Salaries, office expenses, pensions,
transfer to National Debt Amortization
special account, miscellaneous expen-
ses,etc.
.169,660,541
2. Reserve funds.
2,005,000
Total expenditure.
171,665,541
For Stabilization of Raw Silk Price
Revenue:
Revenue accruing from sale of raw silk yarns
borrowings, miscellaneous receipts,etc...7,788,391
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure on account of verious pro-
visions and arrangements for purpose of
stabilizing price of raw silk yarns.2,017,61l
2. Transfer to General Account.
5,117,780
3. Reserve funds.....
653,000
Total expenditure.
7,788,391
Forestry Fire Insurance
Revenue:
1. Premium and other miscellaneous
receipts...
37,413
2. Received from General Account.
158,577
Total.
195,990
Expenditure:
1. Various expenses (including salaries,
undertaking expenses and sundry ex-
penses.).
171,082
2. Reserve funds.
24,908
Total
195,990

=== Page 250 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
Fishing Craft Re-insurance.
Revenue:
1. Re-insurance premiums and sundry receipts...... 88,209
2. Received from General Account.......
62,377
Total.
150,586
Expenditure:
1. Undertaking expenditure(Salaries, office expenses
and other)........
83,254
2. Reserve funds........
67,332
Total.
150,586
Live Stock Re-insurance.
Revenue:
1. Re-insurance premium receipts and miscella-
neous income receipts.
362,291
2. Received from General Account.
59,849
3. Funds brought over from previous year.
156,059
Total
578,199
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure for the undertaking, undertaking
expenditure, salaries, pensions, and sundry
expenses.
405,519
2. Reserve funds.
172,680
Total
578,199
For the Communications Department.
The Communications Undertakings.
Capital Account.
Revenue:
Communication business fund revenue.
91,930,679
(Included in the above amount are
¥36,000,000 representing national loan
revenue and ¥228,802 representing miscella-
neous receipts)
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure for extension, improvement and
repletion of telegraph and telephone system.
69,334,000

=== Page 251 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
2. Expenditure for Japan-Manchukuo telephone con-
nection arrangements.
3,815,000
3. Expenditure for wireless telegraph and tele-
phone arrangements for air navigation......
1,735,000
4. Expenditure for identical wireless communica-
tion arrangements.....
472,000
5. Telegraph and telephone wire repair expenditure 198,571
6. Expenditure for construction of post-offices,
and of submarine cable layers and other......
5,562,094
7. Miscellaneous expenses.
23,279
8. Transfer to General Account
14,467,216
9. Transfer to National Debt Amortization spe-
cial account.
4,038,504
10. Reserve funds.
620,000
Total
.100,265,664
Articles Account
Revenue:
Articles for Communication business on
revenue from works..
50,900,253
Expenditure:
1. Articles for communication business and
expenditure on works.
49,880,253
2. Reserve funds.
1,020,000
Total
50,900,253
Business Account.
Revenue:
1. Revenue from communication business.......
339,177,452
2. Transferred from Exchequer Deposit
Department Special Account.
11,450,000
3. Interest receipts.....
115,456
4. Miscellaneous receipts.
1,027,853
Total
351,770,761
Expenditure:
1. Communication business expenditure (Salaries,
etc.) (undertaking expenditure, pensions,
secret funds, funds transferred to National
Debt Amortisation Special Account, subsidies,
miscellaneous expenses,etc)....
228,302,962
2. Contribution to General Account.
81,000,000
3. Reserve funds........
6,000,000
Total.
315,302,962

=== Page 252 === (confidence 1.00)
-15-
Industrial (Post-Office) Life Insurance
Revenue:
1. Premium receipts
243,472,436
2. Revenue accruing from employment
54,580,881
of funds....
3. Miscellaneous receipts.
646,469
Total.
298,699,786
Expenditure:
1. Insurence business expenditure (in-
cluding salaries, pensions, miscel-
laneous expenses)
151,799,693
2. Expen diture for constructions and re-
pair...
176,602
3. Transferred to General Account.
188,050
4. Reserve funds.......
2,530,000
Total
154,694,345
Post-Office Life Annuities.
Revenue:
1. Life annuity premium receipts.
15,011,052
2. Revenue accruing from employment of
funds
4,689,724
3. Miscellaneous receipts
9,703
Total.
19,710,475
Expenditure:
1. Salaries, undertaking expenses, pen-
sions, and sundry expenses.
6,973,726
2. Reserve funds
100,000
Total.
7,073,726
Under control of the Department of Railways
Imperial Railways.
Capital Account
Revenue:
Fund Revenue:
1. Business profit transferred.
130,706,973
2. Loans....
42,000,000
3. Miscellaneous receipts.
1,500,000
Total.
174,206,973

=== Page 253 === (confidence 1.00)
-16-
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure for railroad construction
and improvement, and auxiliary motor
bus line provisions.
141,178,000
2. Transferred to National loan redemp-
tion funds.
22,530,648
3. Temporary expenditure (investment in
Nippon Tsu-un Kabushiki Kaisha shares-
2,000,000
4. Transferred to Generel Account.
30,000,000
Total.
195,708,648
Articles Account.
Revenue:
Articles for use of railways and revenue
from works.....
220,889,000
Expenditure:
Expenditure for articles for use of rail-
ways and expenditure on works
220,889,000
Returns (Profits) Account
Revenue:
Traffic revenue and other revenue from
works..
838,770,034
Expenditure:
1. Expenditure..on works.
680,563,061
2. Subsidies
7,500,000
3. Reserve funds.
20,000,000
Total.
708,063,061
Under Control of the Department
of Overseas Affairs.
The Chosen Government General.
Revenue: (Ordinary)
1. Taxes......
68,675,359
2. Stamp duty revenue.
18,692,824
3. Revenue accruing from Government under-
takings and Government properties.
228,801,219
4. Miscellaneous revenues.
3,460,915
Total.
319,630,317

=== Page 254 === (confidence 1.00)
-17-
Ditto (Extraordinary):
1. Sale of Government properties.
99,291
2. Contribution received.
356,000
3. Temporary profit tax revenue
602,179
4. Export control tax revenue.
6,366
5. Complement funds.
12,913,966
6. Loans....
65,000,000
7. Share in riparian work expenditure.
427,750
8. Previous year's surplus transferred.
13,332,816
Total.
92,738,368
Total revenue
412,368,685
Expenditure (Ordinary):
1. State shrine and national shrines..
2. Expenditure for Prince Yi's house-
74,240
hold.
1,800,000
3. Chosen Government-General expendi-
11,147,134
4. Lawcourts and deposit bureau.
4,197,503
5. Prefectural government expendi-
ture.
28,427,359
6. Prisons.
5,814,490
7. Keijo Imperial University.
1,911,929
8. Schools and libraries.
2,087,923
9. Police officers training insti-
tute...
259,957
10. Experimental farms.
588,517
11. Cattle-plague blood serum manu-
factory.
253,965
12. Central laboratory.
155,927
13. Stallion pastures and sheep breed-
ing depots...
195,423
14. Grain and cereals inspection insti-
tute.....
1,908,201
15. Fishery experiment institute.
215,914
16. Marine products inspection insti-
tute....
192,067
17. Experimental forests.
180,209
18. Monopoly Bureau.
37,388,797
19. Railway Bureau.
93,546,022
20. Forestry Office.
7,018,153
21. Communications.
.expenditure..
18,269,107
22. Revenue superintendence office and
revenue offices.
4,297,621
23. Customs-houses..
1,516,069
24. Social works expenditure.
281,570
25. Lepers sanatorium.
699,765
26. Transferred to National Debt Amorti-
sation Fund Special Account.....
29,764,780
27. Share in pensions.
7,600,049
28. Miscellaneous expenditures
432,842
29. Reserve funds
3,500,000
Total.
263,725,539

=== Page 255 === (confidence 1.00)
Ditto(Extraordinary)
1. Pensions and compassionate allowances in
aid to soldiers of former Korean army and
Chosen army.
39,528
2. Forestry investigation committee.
2,168
3. Investigation and experiment expenses.
1,433,544
4. Subsidies and bounties....
28,537,575
5. Construction and repair expenditure
6,215,646
6. Telegraph and telephone expenditure.
4,726,818
7. Public works expenditure.....
17,370,749
8. Railway construction and improvement.
63,454,000
9. Sand arrestation expenditure.
1,100,000
10. Protection and control of private owned
forest and farms..
97,568
11. Land ledger and topographical map adjust-
ment expenditure.......
153,470
12. Temporary expense for encouragement of
study of Korean language.
53,988
13. Land improvement work expenditure.
3,368,481
14. Investigation and disposal of Govern-
ment properties......
170,276
15. Temporary expenses for frontier customs-
50,630
16. Temporary special allowances.
345,064
17. Protection of Korean people staying
abroad.........
1,599,724
18. Compilation of History of Chosen.
81,000
19. Expenses for temporary control.
1,824,501
20. Guidance and control of local public
works........
137,603
21. Salt farm expenditure.
850,000
22. Exploitation and development of North
Chosen....
2,522,709
23. Provisions for agrarian village economic
rehabilitation and development.......
979,395
24. Provisions for reducing cost for fishery
management.
408,412
25. Schooling expenses and temporary addi-
tionel allowances for students sent
abroad for study at Government's expense..
33,816
26. Foreign exchange control expenditure.
19,735
27. Expenditure for temporary control of
export of Chosen rice...
705,415
28. Expenditure for collection of temporary
profit tax......
9,927
29. Special provisions for prevention of
crimes concerning thoughts.
219,320
30. Natural disaster expenditure.
2,203,599
31. Transferred to General Account.
9,450,000

=== Page 256 === (confidence 1.00)
-19-
32. Transferred to Chosen railway article purchased
fund account.
478,487
Total.
148,643,146
Grand Total.
412,368,685
Chosen Railway Article (Supplies)
Fund
Revenue:
1. Revenue from railway articles and
works.
36,735,095
2. Miscellaneous receipts
75,101
Total.
36,735,095
Expenditure:
Expenditure for railway articles and expendi-
ture on works.
36,735,095
Chosen Industrial Post-office
Life Insurance
Revenue:
1. Premium receipts
10,961,716
2. Revenue accruing from employment of
funds......
1,143,005
3. Miscellaneous receipts
35,480
Total
12,140,201
Expenditure:
1. Insurance business expenses (including sala-
ries and other various expenses)
6,270,817
2. Reserve funds.
100,000
Total.
6,370,817
The Taiwan Government-General
Revenue: (Ordinary):
1. Taxes and duties.
26,671,159
2. Stamp duty receipts.
4,617,707
3. Revenue accruing from Government under-
takings and Government properties.
108,537,340
4. Miscellaneous receipts......
2,030,276
Total.
141,856,482

=== Page 257 === (confidence 1.00)
-20-
Ditto(Extraordinary)
1. Proceeds of sale of government pro-
perties......
599,594
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
135,362
3. Revenue from funds advanced as loans
1,461,050
4. Contributions by public corporations
to harbor work expenditure.....
192,600
5. Share by public corporations in public works
expenditure (riparian work and road con-
struction expenditure)..
978,267
6. Export indemnification revenue
12,898
7. Temporary profit tax receipts.
1,779,930
8. Export control tax revenue
17,065
9. Previous year's surplus transferred.
10,947,039
Total
16,121,805
Grand total for revenue.
157,978,287
Expenditure (Ordinary):
1. Expenditure for Shinto shrines.
49,000
2. Taiwan Government-General expenditure..
3,910,927
3. Prefectural government offices
14,866,200
4. Customs-houses..
570,761
5. Courts of Justices.
1,463,293
6. Prisons.....
1,286,349
7. Police officers' and prison officers
training institutes.
225,648
8. Government hospitals.
1,328,421
9. Central laboratory.
946,491
10. Sugar refining laboratory.
574,277
11. Educational work expenditure.
5,472,060
12. Social work expenditure.
398,349
13. Communications Bureau.
28,579,613
14. Monopoly Bureau.
31,782,269
15. Forestry administration expenditure.
3,807,345
16. Transferred to National Debt Amortisa-
tion Fund Special Account.
6,720,593
17. Pensions...
5,087,658
18. Various Miscellaneous expenses.
1,151,248
19. Reserve funds
2,300,000
Total
110,520,502
Ditto(Extraordinary)
1. Undertakings expenditure.
19,409,419
2. Constmuction and repair
6,849,365
3. Investigations and experiments.
1,362,482
4. Industrial administration.
3,086,728
5. Subsidies......
9,361,675
6. Special police provisions.
371,865
7. Correction of habitual opium smokers.
28,482
8. Temporary policing in "Musha" and neigh-
boring native villages...
55,212

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
9. Schooling expenses and temporary addi-
tional allowances for those sent abroad
for study.........
69,788
10. Foreign Exchange control expenditure.
10,612.
1l. Temporary control of export of Taiwan
rice......
169,879
12. Collection of temporary profit tax.
27,935
13. Expenditure on account of post-quake
adjustment and economic rehabilitation
in Shinchiku and Taichu provinces.
1,304,343
14. Transferred to General Account.
5,250,000
15. Transferred to Taiwan railway articles
fund account........
100,000
Total.
47,457,785
Grand total of expenditure.
157,978,287
Taiwan Railway Articles (Supplies) Fund.
Revenue:
1. Revenue from railway articles and re-
ceipts from works.
7,940,000
2. Miscellaneous receipts.
60,000
Total
8,000,000
Expenditure:
Expenditure on railway articles and works. 8,000,000
The Karafuto Office.
Revenue (Ordinary):
1. Taxes and duties.
2,847,369
2. Revenue accruing from Government under-
takings and Government properties.
27,348,083
3. Stamp duty revenue....
311,441
4. Tobacco monopoly proceeds.
1,460,437
5. Miscellaneous receipts......
778,135
Totel.
32,745,465
Ditto (Extraordinary):
1. Proceeds of Government properties sold.
84,177
2. Miscellaneous receipts (funds returned)
518
3. Temporary profit tax......
37,738
4. Previous year's surplus transferred...
3,507,826
Total.
3,630,259
Grand total...of revenue
36,375,724
Expenditure(Ordinary:
1. Karafuto Shrine expenditure.
18,186
2. Karafuto Office expenditure.
1,889,444
3. Educational expenditure.
2,602,775
4. Police expenditure.
891,048
5. Forestry administration expenditure..
1,987,405

=== Page 259 === (confidence 1.00)
-22-
6. Expenditure for communications, rail-
ways, hospitals and meteorological ob-
servatories.
68,427
7. Central laboratory expenditure
414,542
8. Pensions .....
343,571
9. Miscellaneous expenses
220,926
10. Transferred to National Debt Amortisation
Fund Special Account.
2,120,216
11. Reserve funds.
240,000
Total.
19,216,546
Ditto(Extraordinary):
1. Construction and repair expenditure....
1,057,000
2. Subsidies.
2,196,737
3. Karafuto exploitation and develop-
ment work expenditure........
11,348,982
4. Expenditure on account of reconstruction
of roads, bridges, railway trucks, tele-
graph and telephone lines damaged by
natural disasters.......
301,553
5. Transferred to General Account.
1,950,000
6. Grants-in-aid to local finances.
304,906
Total.
17,159,178
Grand total for expenditure.
36,375,724
The South Sea Islands Office.
Revenue (Ordinary):
1. Taxes and duties.....
5,826,944
2. Revenue accruing from Government.
undertakings and Government proper-
ties.
1,405,140
3. Stamp duty revenue
85,666
4. Miscellaneous receipts.
26,974
Total.
7,282,724
Ditto (Extraordinary)
1. Proceeds of Government properties sold..
23,711
2. Previous year's surplus transferred....
1,376,074
Total.
1,399,758
Grand total of revenue.
8,682,482

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
Expenditure (Ordinary)
1. The South Sea Islands Office
expenditure.....
..3,684,688
2. Transferred to National Debt
Amortisation Fund Special Ac-
count......
4,631
3. Pensions.
71,271
4. Reserve funds.
50,000
Total.
3,810,590
Ditto(Extraordinary):
1. Public works and construction
expenditure.....
766,444
2. Bounties end subsidies.
1,196,895
3. Lend investigation expenses...
47,950
4. Expenses for investigation of
taxation system and other....
26,555
5. South Sea Islands exploitation
expenditure......
1,734,048
6. Transferred to General Account.. 1,100,000
Total.
4,871,892
Grand total of expenditure.
8,682,482

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
EuclosNo 7
to despasch
No2513 of July 24, 1937 crom the
SPECIAL ACCOUNT BUBGETssy at Tokyo.
(Continuing Expenditure
for 1937-38 fiscal year)
Continuing Expenditure
The items of expenditure mentioned hereunder are con-
tinuing expenditures disbursement of which spreads over
more than one fiscal year, and included in them are many
new claims. In some of those items running from previous
fiscal years the total amount of expenditure and the amount
of yearly disbursement, both previously fixed, have been
revised or reassessed for the current and ensuing fiscal
years.
Under control of the
Department of Finance.
The Kwantung Bureau
Expenditure for Construction
of Dairen Central Post-office.
Total amount.
￥765,000
To be defrayed in three consecu-
tive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year.
.70,000
1938-39 fiscal year.......
534,000
1939-40 fiscal year.
161,000
Expenditure for land recla-
mation work on Baran River (Dairen):
¥1,757,000
Total amount
.￥1,757,000
To be defrayed in 15 consecutive years as follows:
1937-38 fisal year
67,155
1938-39
11
117,155
1939-40
n
1n
117,155
1940-41
n
n
117,155
1941-42
n
n
117,155
1942-43
n
117,155
1943-44
n
n
117,155
1944-45
n
n
117,155
1945-46
n
n
117,155
1946-47
n
n
117,155
1947-48
n
n
127,155
1948-49
n
127,155
1949-50
1n
127,155
1950-51
n
n
127,155
1951-52
1"
126,830

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
2 -
Expenditure for Dairen water-works
extension undertaking:
Previously fixed total amount.
至
5,600,000
1,800,000
Disbursed up to 1937
Balance to be disbursed in and
3,800,000
after 1938.
Yearly emount of disbursement for the 1937-
38 fiscal year and ensuing years re-
assessed as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year.
1,000,000
1938-39 fiscal year.
700,000
1939-40 fiscal year
700,000
1940-41 fiscal year
700,000
1941-42
fiscal year
700,000
Under control of the
Department of Education.
The Imperial Universities
Expenditure for construction
of Aggregate Laboratory (Tokyo
Imperial University Engineering
Department):
Total amount....
￥ 450,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
150,000
1938-39 fisca1 year
150,000
1939-40 fisca1 year
150,000
Expenditure for Reconstruction
of Tokyo Imperial University
Hospital:
Total amount..
1,072,045
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
300,000
1938-39 fiscal year
350,000
1939-40 fiscal year
422,045
Expenditure for Reconstruction
of Kyoto Imperial University
Library:
600,000
Total amount..
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
1938-39 fiscal year
200,000
1939-40 fiscal year
300,000
Expenditure for Reconstruction
of Tohoku Imperial University
Hospital:
Total amount.
600,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
200,000
1938-39 fiscal year
200,000
1939-40 fiscal year
200,000
Expenditure for Construction of
Aeronautics Class-room in Kyushu
Imperial University (Engineering
Department):
Total amount.
405,752
To be disbursed in three consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
1938-39 fiscal year
205,752
1939-40 fisca1 year
100,000
Expenditure for Construction of
Aeronautics Class-room in Osaka
Imperial University (Engineering
Department):
Total amount.
405,752
To be dishursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
1938-39 fiscal year
205,752
1939-40 fiscal year
100,000
Expenditure for Reconstruction of
Okayama Univarsity for Medicine
Hospital:
Total amount
294,930
To be disbursed in two consecutive years
apportioned as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
150,000
1938-39 fiscal year
144,930
7

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Expenditure for Reconstruction of Nagasaki
University(Medical) Hospital:
Total amount.
.￥
450,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
150,000
1938-39 fiscal year
150,000
1939-40 fiscal year
150,000
Expenditure for Construction of
Mechanical Engineering Research In-
stitute of Tokyo Polyteohnical Uni-
versity:
Total amount.
682,640
To be disbursed in three consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
200,000
1938-39 fiscal year
250,000
1939-40 fiscal year
232,640
Under control of the
Department of Communications.
Communication Business
(Capital Account)
Expenditure for extension,
improvement and repletion of
telegraph and telephone systems:
Previously fixed total amount.
.¥782,892,385
Additional expenditure.
314,435,120
Total
.1,097,327,505
Disbursed up to end of 1936-37 fiscal
year.
647,763,505
Amount to be disbursed in and after 1937-38 fiscal
year
449,564,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
69,334,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year.
80,687,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
91,392,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal yeer
99,558,000
Ditto for 1941-42 fiscal year
108,593,000
Expenditure for aeronautical
wireless telegraph and telephone
arrangements:
Previously fixed total amount
2,472,878
Additional expenditure.....
1,323,000
Total
3,795,878

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
Disbursed up to 1936
1, 287,878
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
2,508,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
1,735,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
773,000
Expenditure for identical wireless
communications arrangements:
Previously fixed total emount.
409,836
Additional expenditure.
486,000
Total
895,836
Disbursed by 1936
197,836
Balance to be disbursed in 1937-38 and
1938-39 fiscal years...
698,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
472,000
11
for 1938-39
it
n
226,000
Expenditure for Construction of new post-
offices and other construction expenses.
Previously fixed total amount.
10,106,324
Additional expenditure.
15,866,939
Total
25,973,263
Disbursed by 1936
5,516,335
Balance to be disbursed in end after
1937-38 fiscal year
20,456,928
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
4,115,666
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
5,000,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
5,500,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
4,233,459
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
1,607,803
Under control of the
Department of Railways
Imperial Railways.
(Capital Account)
Expenditure for Railway Construction
and Improvement, and Motor Bus Line
Extension:
Previously fixed total amount.
4,048,417,031
Curtailed amount.
6,709,000
Additional expenditure.
213,839,000
Net total
4,255,547,031

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.93)
Disbursed by 1936
3,683,068,031
Balance amounting to ¥572,479,000 composed of
¥247,629,000 for railway construction,
¥321,150,000 for railway improvement, and
¥3,700,oó0 for motor bus line extension is to
be disbursed in 7 consecutive years beginning
1937-38 fiscal year, the amount of disbursement
for each fiscal year being reassessed as follows:
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
141,178,000
Ditto
1n
1938-39
"
1"
151,090,000
Ditto
1n
1939-40
1"
1"
155,517,000
Ditto
1940-41
11
59,137,000
Ditto
n
1941-42
11
n
43,135,000
Ditto
1"
1942-43
n
19,355,000
Ditto
1943-44
11
1n
3,067,000
Under control of the
Department of Overseas Affairs.
The Chosen Government-General
Expenditure for investigations
as to electric power control
system:
Previously fixed total amount.
316,607
Additional expenditure.
243,199
Total
559,806
Disbursed by 1936
111,640
Balance to be disbursed in 1937-38 fiscal
year and after.
448,166
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
180,403
Ditto for 1938-39
1"
1"
166,006
Ditto for 1939-40
97
101,757
Expenditure for establishment of the
Government-General Natural History Museum:
Previously fixed total amount.
2,000,000
Additional expenditure
230,000
Total
2,230,000
Disbursed in 1936-37 fiscal year
600,000
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
1,620,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
400,000
Ditto
for 1938-39
t1
770,000
Ditto
for 1939-40
1"
460,000

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
Expenditure for Construction of Official
residences of Government-General:
Total amount..
.￥
400,000
To be disbursed in 2 consecutive years as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
200,000
1938-39
1"
17
200,000
Expenditure for Construction of offices
and other buildings of Taiden District Court:
Total amount.
260,000
To be disbursed in 2 consecutive years as
follows.
1937-38 fiscal year
130,000
1938-39
11
11
130,000
Expenditure for construction of offices
of Heian Nando prefectural Government office:
Total amount..
260,000
To be disbursed in 2 consecutive years as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
130,000
1938-39
17
130,000
Expenditure for construction of hospital
attached to Keijo Imperial University:
Total amount..
590,000
To be disbursed in 3 consecutive years as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
200,000
1938-39
"
200,000
1939-40
1n
190,000
Expenditure for establishment of new Normal
Schools:
Previously fixed total amount.
306,436
Additional expenditure.
666,877
Total
973,313
Disbursed in 1936-37 fiscal year.
154,692
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
818,621
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
404,311
Ditto for 1938-39
n
350,091
Ditto for 1939-40
n
64,219
Expenditure for construction of offices
and factories of Monopoly Bureau:
Previously fixed total amount.
549,384
Additional expenditure
1,778,612
Total
2,327,996

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Disbursed in 1936-37 fiscal year
179,384
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
2,148,612
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
.1,289,753
Ditto for 1938-39
n
1n
858,859
Expenditure for Creation
of Aerial Route:
Total amount.
936,000
To be disbursed in 3 consecutive years
as follows..
1937-38 fiscal year
312,000
1938-39 fisca1 year
312,000
1939040 fiscal year
312,000
Expenditure for taxation improvement
of telegraph and telephone systems:
Total amount.
20,298,519
To be disbursed in five consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
3,400,000
1938-39 fiscal year
4,150,000
1939-40 fiscal year
4,150,000
1941-42 fiscal year
4,448,519
Expenditure for Road Construction
and Improvement:
Previously fixed total amount.........
50,619,840
Additional expenditure.
2,000,000
Total
52,619,840
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year.... 43,795,840
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
8,824,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
2,300,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
2,970,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
2,294,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
600,000
Ditto for 194l042 fiscal year
660,000
Expenditure for harbor construction
and harbor improvement:
Previously fixed total amount.
25,803,629
Curtailed amount.
1,200,000
Additional expenditure.....
21,000,000
Net total
.45,603,629
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year-
6,122,629
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
39,481,000

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
8,111,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
8,060,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
6,880,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
5,710,000
Ditto for 1941-42 fiscal year
4,200,000
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
3,300,000
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
3,220,000
Expenditure for riparian work:
Previously fixed total amount.
56,666,974
Additional expenditure.
22,818,000
Total
79,484,974
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year..
49,587,159
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-38
fiscal year
29,897,816
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
5,600,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
6,000,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
6,323,000
Ditto for 1940-4l fiscal year
6,000,000
Ditto for 1941-42 fiscal year
5,974,816
Expenditure for sand arrestation work
(2nd period undertaking):
Total amount.
19,762,500
To be disbursed in 15 consecutive years be-
ginning 1937-38 fiscal year as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
1,100,000
1938-39 fiscal year
1,100,000
1939-40 fiscal year
1,100,000
1940-4l fiscal year
1,100,000
1941-42 fiscal year
1,100,000
1942-43 fiscal year
1,100,000
1943-44 fiscal year
1,100,000
1944-45 fiscal year
1,100,000
1945-46 fiscal year
1,500,000
1946-47 fiscal year
1,500,000
1947-48 fiscal year
1,600,000
1948-49 fiscal year
1,600,000
1949-50 fiscal year
1,600,000
1950-51 fiscal year
1,600,000
1951-52 fiscal year
1,562,500
Expenditure for construction
of colonization railways
Previously fixed totel amount.
6,270,000
Additional expenditure.
3,380,000
Total
9,650,000
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year.
4,600,000
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
5,050,000

=== Page 270 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
.1, 270,000
Ditto forl938-39 fiscal year
950,000
Ditto forl939-40 fiscal year
950,000
Ditto forl940-4l fiscal year
950,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
930,000
Expenditure for natural disaster damage
rehabilitation work( roads and rivers):
Total amount
1,480,000
To be disbursed in two consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
780,000
1938-39 fiscal year.
700,000
The Taiwan Government-General
Expenditure for railway construction:
Total amount.
2,488,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
579,000
1938-39 fiscal year
1,029,000
1939-40 fiscal year
880,000
Expenditure for harbors:
Previously fixed total amount.........
86,380,466
Additional expenditure.
11,200,000
Total.
97,580,466
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year... 76,243,850
Balance to be disbursed in and after 1937-
38 fiscal year
21,336,616
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
3,646,486
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
3,957,287
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
3,271,499
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscal year
3,165,336
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
3,165,336
Ditto for 1942-43 fiscal year
2,565,336
Ditto for 1943-44 fiscal year
1,565,336
Expenditure for Mako harbor works:
Total amount.
850,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive years as
follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
250,000
1938-39 fiscal year
300,000
1939-40 fiscal year
300,000

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.95)
1
-11-
Expenditure for construction
of Dock for repair of large-type
vessels:
Total amount...
￥3,335,000
To be disbursed in three
consecutive years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
1,000,000
1938-39 fiscal year
1,300,000
1939-40 fiscal year
1,035,000
Expenditure for riparian work:
Previously fixed total amount........
34,876,729
Additional expenditure.
5,686,665
Total
40,554,394
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal yeer..
25,953,217
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fisca1 year
14,601,177
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
3,590,510
Ditto
1938-39
1"
2,822,138
Ditto " 1939-40
1,791,683
Ditto for 1940-41
n
1,562,854
Ditto for 194l-42
11
n
1,512,854
Ditto for 1942-43
n
1n
1,361,146
Ditto for 1943-44
1"
1,169,854
Ditto for 1944-45
1"
641,878
Ditto for 1945-46
11
74,130
Ditto for 1946-47
1"
17
74,130
Expenditure fixed total amount.
13,523,329
Additional expenditure.....
3,110,000
Total
16,633,329
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year.....
11,453,573
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
5,179,756
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
1,250,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
1,100,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year
1,200,000
Ditto for 1940-41 fiscal year
1,200,000
Ditto for 194l-42 fiscel year
429,756
Expenditure for construction
of Taiwan Shrine:
Total amount..
2,000,000
To be disbursed in four consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
550,000
1938-39
600,000

=== Page 272 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
1939-40 fiscal year
550,000
1940-41 fiscal year
330,000
Expenditure for construction of
Medical Department of Taihoku
Imperial University:
Previously fixed total amount.....
2,053,252
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year
1,026,626
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year ....
1,026,626
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year...
213,313
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
813,313
Expenditure for construction of
Tuberculosis Sanatorium:
Total amount.
352,058
To be disbursed in two consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
180,000
1938-39 fiscal year
172,058
Expenditure for wireless telegraphy
and wireless telephony arrangements:
Previously fixed total amount....
527,445
Additional expenditure
739,905
Total
1,267,350
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal year329,218
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
938,132
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year...
456,132
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
266,000
Ditto for 1939-40 fiscal year....
216,000
Expenditure for railway construction:
Previously fixed total amount.......
3,197,692
Additional expenditure.
12,225,400
Total
15,423,092
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year......
2,201,890
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
13,221,202
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year
1,424,202
Ditto for
1938-39 fiscal year ... 2,176,000
Ditto for
1939-40 fiscal year.... 2,961,000
Ditto for
1940-41 fiscal year ....2,431,000
Ditto for
1941-42 fiscal year ....2,215,000
Ditto for
1942-43 fiscal year ... 2,014,000

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Expenditure for high power radio
broadcasting arrangements:
Total amount.
1,900,000
To be disbursed in four consecutive..
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
300,000
1938-39 fiscal year
700,000
1939-40 fiscal year
700,000
1940-41 fiscal year
200,000
Expenditure for construction of
Kagi post-office and telephone exchange
system improvement:
Total amount.
900,000
To be disbursed in two consecutive
years as follows.
1937-38 fiscal year
250,000
1938-39 fiscal year
650,000
Expenditure for construction of
saké distilling factory of Monopoly
Bureau:
Total amount.
1,490,590
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
554,930
1938-39 fiscal year
470,507
1939-40 fiscal year
465,153
Expenditure for construction
of new police patrol ships:
Total amount.
759,100
To be disbursed in two consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
279,550
1938-39 fiscal year
479,550
The Karafuto Office.
Expenditure for construction of
new buildings for Karafuto office:
Total amount..
800,000
To be disbursed in three consecutive
years as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
70,000
1938-39 fiscal year
365,000
1939-40 fiscal year
365,000

=== Page 274 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
Expenditure for railway construction:
Previously fixed total amount.
3,197,692
Additional expenditure
12,225,400
Total
15,423,092
Disbursed by end of 1936-37 fiscal
year
2,201,890
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
13,221,202
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year.
1,424,202
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year.
2,176,000
Ditto for 1939-40
fiscal year
2,961,000
Ditto for 1940-41
fiscal year
2,431,000
Ditto for 194l-42
fiscal year
2,215,000
Ditto for 1942-43
fiscal year
2,014,000
Expenditure for harbor improvement:
Previously fixed total amount.
4,415,000
Additional expenditure.
500,000
C
Total
4,915,000
Disbursed up to end of 1936-37 fiscal year.2,470,000
Balance to be disbursed in and after
1937-38 fiscal year
2,445,000
Allotment for 1937-38 fiscal year....
1,465,000
Ditto for 1938-39 fiscal year
980,000
The South Sea Islands Office.
Expenditure for Pallao Island water-works:
Total amount.
530,000
To be disbursed in four consecutive years
as follows:
1937-38 fiscal year
100,000
1938-39 fiscal year
130,000
1939-40 fiscal year
150,000
1940-41 fiscal year
150,000

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/9136
Te1/244,5pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Aug..3..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.51/
North China Sino-Japanese conflict.
REGARDING:
Cabinet, yesterday, approved provisional increase for one year
of the income tax and several other taxes to yield an addi-
5
tional revenue of yen l02 million to be applied to expenses
of military operations in North China. In addition to supple-
O
mentary estimates of about yen l05 million already appropriated,N
understood there is being presented to Diet a further supple-
mentary budget of yen 30o million for military expenditures
in Manchuria and in North China.
FRG.
0
2

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
F
1w
Tokyo
This telegram must be closely
paraphrased before being com-
Dated August 3, 1937
municated to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 7:05 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
244, Augus7 3, 5 p.m.
9r05
My No. 239, Ju1y 31, 5 p.m.
One. By direction of tho ar Department the Military
793.94
Attache of the Embassy is today telegraphing his estimate
of the North Jhina situation. I have read his report and
have expressed to him ny concurrence.
(GRAY)
Two. he Naval Attache was informed today at the Navy
6
136
Department that contrary to newspaper reports of the visit
of the Cormander of the Japanese Third Fleet on the Chinese
Navy Minister the Commander did not threaten arbitrary
action in case of further anti-Japanese demonstration in
Central and North China; that no ships or landing reenforce-
ments have been sent to China; and that of the three Jap-
anese destroyers which engaged the Chinese land forces at
Taku on July 29 two destroyers were based on Port Arthur
and the third destroyer belonged to the third fleet.
Three. The Cabinet yesterday approved provisional
increase for one year of the income tax and several other
taxes

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
1w 2, No. 244, August 3, 5 p.m. from Tokyo
taxes the increase to yield an additional revenue of yen
102 million to be applied to the expenses of military opera-
tions in North China. In addition to supplementary esti-
mates of about yen l05 million already appropriated for
military expenses in North China it is understood that
there is being presented to the Diet a further supplemen-
tary budget of yen 3oo million for military expenditures
in Manchuria and in North China.
Repeated to Nanking. (END GRAY)
GREW
RR
CSB

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
16791
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2531.
Tokyo, August 6, 1937.
EP ATE
C0UIAIONS
93 A   2
BUDGETS.
EED
IVISIN OF
AND RD
103A
Teaeurs
Bunearr
Commesce
894151
Division of
FAR EASTEON AFFAIRS
894.51/503
AUG 241937
A-M/C
The Honorable
RECORDING DESK
FLE-WHB
The Secretary of State,
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER 
ASSITANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT
Washington.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
SEP 7-1937mg
OF STATE
S
Sin
21
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
In despatch No. 2513, July 24, 1937, the Embassy
0011  1937
yeer April 1, 1937 to March 31, 1938, and in the para-
GELLE
griph at the top of page three, referred to a supple-
mentary budget which was passed at the same time for
certain purposes. I now have the honor to report upon
a second, a third, and a fourth supplementary budget, all
F/HC
of which have been presented to the Japanese Diet now in
session.
The second supplementary budget, approved by the
House of Representatives on August 3, 1937, appropriates
¥13,380,000,

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
¥13,380,000 from surplus funds of the last fiscal year
for miscellaneous purposes and general account. Its
largest item is one of ten million yen to replenish
the second reserve fund which was depleted by being used
for the first epxenses in connection with the North China
incident of July l937, immediately after the emergency
arose.
The third supplementary budget appropriates seven mil-
lion yen to various general budget accounts, including
seven hundred thousand yen to set up a new department of
health. It also designates a disposition of the book pro-
fits obtained from the recent revaluation of the Government's
gold reserves (Embassy's telegram No. 215, July 21, 4 p.m.).
The third supplementary budget was also passed by the House
of Representatives on August 3.
The fourth supplementary budget has not yet been passed
by either House of the Diet but it is expected to pass in
the form in which it has been submitted by the Cabinet. It
is entirely devoted to expenditures connected with the North
China incident which commenced in July. Newspaper reports
state that it allots ¥257,000,000 to the War Department,
¥95,000,000 to the Navy Department, ¥63,400,000 to the De-
partment of Finance, and ¥4,100,000 to the Foreign Office.
1/2
Newspaper articles covering these supplementary budgets
are enclosed herewith.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.89)
- 3 -
Enclosurear
1/
Clipping, "Lower House Votes Additional Budgets",
JAPAN ADVERTISER, August 4, 1937.
2/ Clipping, "North China Budget Set At ¥419,600.000
In Formal Decision", JAPAN ADVERTISER, August 6, 1937.
851.
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, London
n
n
n
Nanking
n
n
n
Peiping
n
n
Moscow

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. l to despatch
No. 2531 of August 6, 1937, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Wednesday, August 4, 1937.
LOWER HOUSE VOTES
them to the Japanese. No response is
recorded.
It was revealed that supervision of
the Japan Amateur Athletic Union
ADDITIONAL BUDGETS
will be transferred from the Educa-
tion Ministry to the new Health and
Social Ministry.
Principle Continues
Mr. Juzo Miwa, Social Mass. declar-
Measures Sent to Peers With
ed that the North China incident ne-
cessitates political and economic re-
Resolution and Warning
forms. Premier Konoe told him that
"the Government still adheres to the
Attached
principle of non-aggravation in con-
nection with the incident. and as for
the projected adjustment of Sino-Japa-
SPORTS ISSUE DISCUSSED
nes relations we must work out ap-
proprate stepe
wherev: erenun
unee permit H dded pat re
Seiyuka Membor Regrets Tax
Increases to Meet North
teo the meessity of .qperers abons for
the North China incident but expres-
China Expenses
sed regret that taxes are being in-
creased to meet part of them. He
urged fundamental reform of the tax
The second and third supplementary
system.
budget bills were approve? by the
Mr. Tetsu Katava So al Mass. voie-
House of Representatives yesterday
ed hope that concrete reform measures
afternoon with an appended resolution
will be presented to the Diet in the
on relief for soldiers' families and the
next ordinary session that concrete
rising prices of daily necessities and a
pobetes will be established to help the
warning against continued financing of
families of the soldiers in North China.
the Cabinet's Planning Board ot of
that labor policies will be given con-
the second reserve fund. The measures
sideration in connection with the ex-
were then sent to the House of Peers.
pansion of productive capacity that
The second supplementary budget ap-
farmers and other groups will be re-
propriates ¥13.380,000 from the surplus
presented among the councilors of the
funds of the last fiscal year for miscel-
Health and Social Ministry and that
laneous purposes in the general account.
the tax system will be revised and more
including ¥10.000.000 for the second re-
than ¥200.000,000 be given to local gov-
serve fund. 260.000 to pay for the spe-
ernments for financial adjustments.
cial Diet session. ¥300,000 for use by
After expression of similar views by
the War Office in "calamity expendi-
ture." 840,000 for the Navy Ministry
other ne a  ts. the comittee approv.
as additional Manchurian incident ex-
ed the supplementary budge's and the
penditure and 10,000 for the Ministry
attached resolutions and warning.
of Agriculture and Forestry in connec-
The resolutions are given by Domei
ion with the Japanese-Soviet filshery
as follows:
convention. In addition. 1,810.000 is
"1. As the Military Relief Law and
appropriated for various special ac-
the Law for Application of the Fund
counts.
to Support Military Men are inade-
The third supplementary budget
quate for relief of the families of sol-
comprises ¥7,000,000 in the general ac-
diers called to the colors in connection
count. including 700.000 to set up the
with the North China incident. we
Health and Social Ministry. and 537.-
want the Government to take positive
300,000 in a number of special accounts.
measures to free the soldiers from fa-
related mostly to the book profits ob-
tained from revaluation of the Govern.
mily cares.
ment's gold reserves.
"2. We want the Government to
Vaulter's Father Speaks
take steps to check and regulate the
The budget bills were approved in
rise in prices of daily necessities, which
the morning by the budget committee
threatens the nation."
of the House, which devoted some time
The warning reads:
to the Olympic Games and sports in
"Though the Planning Board was
general. In reply to Mr. Ikuhei Nishi-
established on May 14. its working
da, Minseito, father of Shuhei Nishida.
funds up to August have been met by
famed pole-vaulter. Parliamentary
disbursements from the second reserve
Education Vice-Minister Sakusaburo
fund. Such a method cannot be per-
Uchigasaki declared that it is absolutely
mitted except under urgent circum-
out of the question to abolish the
stances. Repetition of it would give
champion system of athletics. Mr.
rise to. the evil habit of defying the
Nishida later told newspapermen that
right of the Diet to deliberate on the
he had first questioned the Education
budget. We must voice firm warning
Minister, whom he found apathetic to-
against this tendency."
ward sports questions. according to
When the Lower House met in the
Domei. Too much emphasis is placed.
afternoon. War Minister Hajime Sugi-
he said, on leading athletes and not
yama reported the latest information on
enough on amateurs in general.
the Tungchow incident. The budges
Asked what the Education Ministry
measures were then approved, as wese
meane to do about the Olympic Or-
two other bills not named by Demel.
gemtsing Committee, which eens to
be having internal trouble, Mr. Ueki-
bilke on the qualidoatiome at
sasakel steted that it la seokines to have
Mouary judicial
the speople look upon the 19te Clames
ins. R
anntveseery of the tounding of the

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 2531 of August 6, 1937, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Friday, August 6, 1937.
NORTH CHINA BUDGET
These appropriations, added, to the
original 1,000,000 from the second re-
serve fund and the first supplementary
budget of 996,800,000, bring the total to
SET AT ¥419,600,000
date for the North China incident to
9526,600,000.
The four supplementary budgets pre-
IN FORMAL DECISION
sented to the Diet in the current ses-
sion are added up by the Asahi. to
4537,000,000. As the general budget
for the current flscal year is 92,872,-
130,000, the total expenditure will reach
43,400,220,000, which is unprecedented
Both Total and Individual Al-
for Japan.
Bonds will be iasued to cover 2310,-
lotments Differ From Those
000,000 of the fourth supplementary
budget, the paper adds, bringing the
Mentioned by Kaya
total for the fiscal year to 1,370,000,-
000.
After the Cabinet's decision on the
HOUSE WILL ADOPT TODAY
budget yesterday, Premier Konoe was
received in audience at the Palace to
report on it and later conferred with
Committee Has Difficulty in
the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal
and the Grand Chamberlain, the Asahi
Agreeing on Approval With
says.
The Lower House is scheduled to ap-
Brief Interpellations
prove the fourth supplementary budget
this afterasun after brief examination
of it by the budget committee. It will
KONOE REPORTS TO THRONE
at once be sent to the House of Peers.
Executives of the Lower House bud-
get committee yesterday were compell.
The fourth supplementary budget,
ed to meet four times yesterday before
devoted entirely to the North China
they could agree on the procedure for
incident expenditures, as finally de-
approving the new North China inci-
cided on by the Cabinet yesterday for
dent budget, according to Domei. Mr.
presentation to the House of Repre-
Shigemasa Sunada, Seiyukai, objected
sentatives, amounts to 2419,600,000,
to a proposal that the committee vote
differing in both the total and the
approval after a brief debate and in-
filgures given in the Lower House on
sisted that there should be interpella-
Wednesday by Finance Minister Oki-
tlons on a budget of more than 400,-
nori Kaya.
d00,000. The Minseito spokesman in
The War Office is given 257,000,000,
the committee'was equally insistent
the Navy Office 95,000,000, the
that there be no interpellation. Even-
Finance Ministry 63,400,000 and the
tually, it was agreed to vote after brief
Foreign Office 4,100,000, acocrding to
interpellations.
the Asahi.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./116
FOR....Dospatch.#2524
FROM
Japan
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.51
REGARDING:
Government finance.
Reduction in maximm of 30,000 yen per month for transactions not
requiring foreign exchange permits to 1,000 yen per month.
/504
Unanimous passage of two budget bills, one for lo million yen
and the other for 96,800,000 yen to finance operations in China.
ho
7

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERNAFFAIRS
SCR
RECEIVED
Conversation.
AUG 30 193Augus 26, 1937.
Zil
Mr. Harrison, or the of
o New York.
Mr. Hornbeck.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 2 8 1937
Subject: Loans by American Banks to the
894.51/505
Yokohama Specie Bank.
Mr. Harrison called me on the telephone; said that
he had been trying to get the Secretary; and said that
there was certain information which he would like to
have conveyed to the Secretary.
894.51
Mr. Harrison said that New York banks have been
making loans to the Yokohama Specie Bank on security of
gold in transit and of U.S. bonds. They have received
word today from London that London banks, which previously
have been making suoh loans, have today discontinued
FILED
making loans to the Yokohama Specie Bank (or Japanese
banks?) on security of gold in transit but are continuing
to make loans on security of bonds. Mr. Harrison wondered
whether we would wish to make any comment. He thought
that we would be interested in having the information.
I said that I would convey the information to the
Secretary at the earliest possible moment.
F/JA
S
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.90)
t of State
SEPARTMENT OF STATE
PLANN
Washingion,
BEP 3  6ptember 3, 1937.
7pm
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
894.51/505A
MANING (Ch1na). AND RECORDS
nidNR
210
For your information and guidance.
newspapns
This afternoon certain
American pfeature a
United Press'article with headline QUOTE U.S. Banks Helping
FAmamce Jap War UnQuork. The' simple racts, according to the
Department's understanding, are that certain American banks
ordinary rinancial transactions whioh consist
of granting credits'to
yorush
mixBat
 against gold now in transit to
Hee
PAH
E/JA
FE

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.51/506
.793.94/9904
FOR...Tel344...1pm
SEE ....
(.....Grow.
) DATED Sept.51937
FROM ..... Japan.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese situation: Japan's policy.
REGARDING:
Changes in fiscal and economic policies made necessary by
enlargement of hostilities, according to Foreign Minister in
his address to seventy-second session of the Diet, setting
the extraordinary military estimates at 2,020,000, 000 yen.
FRG.
π

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
PA/H
MP
TOKYO
Dated September 5, 1937
Rec'd 5:02 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
TRIPIE PRIORITY
344, SEptEmbEr 5, 1 p.m.
DEpartment's 188, SEptembEr 3, 1 p.m.
894.51
OnE. ThE FinancE linister's addrEss discusses changes
in fiscal and Economic policics madE nEcrssary by nlargE
ment of thE hostilities. It sEts thE Exiraordinary military
020
000
Estimates at 2,000,000/yen and continues:
"WE believe that thesE Extraordinarily heavy Expenditures
arE unavoidablE in order to punish thE lawless ChinEsE army
and to causE thE ChinesE Government to rEconsider its
attitudE. In order that thE attainment of our objectivEs
may bE promoted it becomes nEcessary to confirm our Economic
and fiscal policies to the prevailing Emergency. The
pivotal principlE will bE to providE as abundantly as
possiblE nEcEssary materials, capital and labor to thosE
industries which producE ilitary supplies and arE otherwise
related to national dcfensE. In a positivE way wE plan to
providE thesE industries with materials and nEcessary labor
but as therE is a limit to capital,materials and labor
wE consider it nEcessary at the samE timE to rEstrict for
thE

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
MP
2-#344 From Tokyo, SEpt. 5, 1 p.m.
timE bEing
thE building of nEw installations and Extensions in thosE
industries which arE rElatively not urgent. ThE E
Exportation of commoditiEs rEquired in thE emergency situation
will bE rEstricted; thE importation of unnecEssary com-
moditiEs will bE rEstricted in order that thE available
rEsources for the importation of nEcessary commodities may
bE EnlargEd; and wE beliEvE that it is important to takE
measures dEsigned to offset thE deficiency in internal stock
companies of materials which wiil rEsult from rEstriction
of imports. Accordingly, various mEasures will havE to bE
taken in finance, industry, commercE, farEign ExchangE, and
in other fields"
Two. After briefly dEscribing lEgislativE mEasurEs
which arE to bE introduced, among which arE to bE noted onE
bill giving the government virtually completE control over
financing and extension of credit to industry and another
bill authorizing thE government to t ake over speciE in
privatE hands and foreign nEgotiablE sEcuritiEs owned by
nationals, the FinancE Minister outlined thE policy which
is to bE followEd with rEgard to thE issuancE of nEw
national bonds. HE stated that it would continuE to bE thE
policy of thE government to maintain thE ExchangE valuE
of thE yen at onE shilling two pEncE.
Suggest copies to Treasury and Commerce.
GREW
JLS

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.89)
894.51/506
September 9, 1937.
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
emsleses fer his iafermation two oopies of telegram
Ne. 344, September 5, 1 p.m., received from the
Amerleam Bmbassy at Tokyo, transmitt ing a financial
894.51/506
repert.
Bo. 344,
5.1937.
A true gppy of
thie sigghd orig
asm
F
1937.m
x7
10037

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP3-1937
ADVISER ON
September 3, 1937.
PA/H:
Mr. Hornbeok:
Being in the office of Mr. Wayne
Taylor, Acting Secretary of the Treasury,
last week I asked him what he made of
this London story. He said it was prob-
ably just some manifestation of bankers'
caution - the
there might be some risk
and why should they take it. Bankers
are like that - sometimes.
EA:FL:DJW

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DCR
Conversation.
September 2, 1937.
STATE
Division of
SEP 2- 1937
Company of New York. 1937
SEP2-1937
NOTED
Mr. Hornbeck
épartment of State
Subject: Bank Advances on Japanese Golu in Transit.
894.51/507
Mr. Brock called and gave me information similar to
that which had been given me on August 26 by Mr. Harrison
of the Federal Reserve Board regarding New York and London
894.51
current practices in re advances to the Yokohama Specie
Bank against Japanese gold in transit. (See memorandum of
conversation, between Mr. Harrison and Mr. Hornbeck dated
894.51/505
August 26, 1937.)/C/7
Mr. Brock wanted to know whether there was involved
in connection with these transactions, as concerns New York,
any special commercial hazard. I told him that I was not
able to perceive such. There followed some discussion
S
F
Mr. Brock read a telegram in which the Guaranty Trust
FULED
/VM
Company had inquired of their London correspondent regard-
6
ing the position of the London banks, and a reply inwhich
there was mentioned a "political reason." I suggested that
it might be helpful to ask the correspondent to get
amplification of what was meant. I also suggested that
there were probably greater hazards attaching to shipments
from

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
from Japan via Suez and the Mediterranean than to ship-
ments across the Pacific. Mr. Brock intimated that he
would make further inquiry of his London correspondent.
Mr. Brock then read a sentence from yesterday's
ticker news which said that the Japanese were ordering
thought this very alarming. I explained that I had
read this to mean all Japanese warships. Mr. Brock
said that that gave the statement an entirely different
color. We were in agreement, however, that the situation
at Tsingtao is the opposite of reassuring.
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
Conversation.
August 26, 1937.
Mr. Harrison, of the
Federal Feserve Bank of New York.
Mr. Hornbeek.
Subjeet: Loans by Ameriean Banks to the
Tekeaema Specie Benk.
Mr. Harrison called me on the telephone; said that
he had been trying to get the Secretery; and said that
there was certain information which he would like to
have conveyed to the Secretary.
Mr. Harrison said that New York banks have been
making loans to the Yokohama Specie Bank on seourity of
gold in transit and or U.S. bonds. They heve received
word today from London that London banks, which previously
have been making such loans, have today discontinued
making loans to the Yokohama Specie Bank (or Japanese
banks?) on security of gold in transit but are continuing
to make loans on security of bonds. Mr. Harrison wondered
whether we would wish to make any coment. He thought
that we would be interested in having the information.
I said that I would convey the information to the
Secretary at the earliest possible moment.
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER N
NTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
F
SEP 2-1937
SEPS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF AT
Comversation.
September 2, 1937.
Mr. Herman G. Broek,
viee presidemt, Guaranty Trust
Company of Now York.
Mr. Hornbeek.
Subjeet: Bank Advances on Japanese Gold in Transit.
Mr. Brook called and gave me information similar to
that whioh had been given me on August 86 by Mr. Harrison
of the Federal Reserve Board regarding New York and London
current praetices in re advances to the Yokohama Specie
Bank against Japanese gold in transit. (See memorandum of
oonversation between Mr. Harrimon and Mr. Hornbeok dated
August 26, 1937.)
Mr. Brook wanted to know whether there was involved
in conneotion with these transactions, as conoerns New York,
any special commeroial hazard. I told him that I was not
able to perceive such. There followed some discussion.
Mr. Brook read a telegram in wh1ch the Guaranty Trust
Company had inquired of their London correspondent regard-
ing the position of the London banks, and a reply in which
there was mentioned a "political reason." I suggested that
it might be helpful to ask the correspondent to get
amplirication of what was meant. I also suggested that
there were probably greater hazards attaching to shipments
from

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.95)
一 8 .
from Japan via Sues and the Mediterranean than to ship-
ments aeross the Pacific. Mr. Brook intimated that he
would make further inquiry of his London correspondent.
Mr. Brook then read a sentence from yesterday's
tieker news whioh said that the Japanese were ordering
all warmhips exeept one destroyer out of Teingtao. He
thought this very alerming. I explained that I had
read this to mean all Japenese warships. Mr. Brook
said that that gave the statement an entirely different
color. We were in agreement, however, that the situation
at Tsingtao is the opposite of reassuring.
PA/HIBKH:ZMK

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.94)
EA
SUBCOMMITTEES:
POST OFFICE AND TREA
CHAIRMAN
DEFICIENCY
FE
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
HOUSEEOF REPRESENTATIVES
THE ADVISER 
NAL ECUNS AFFARS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SEPP1937
37 SEP 20 AM 9 14
Quid
September 18,1937
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
Hon. Cordell
OFFICE CF 
FAP LASTERN AFFAIRS
X
Washington,D.C.
INTERNA  
SLP 20 1937
JAN 20 1938
894.51/508
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Department of State
I wish you would send to me such information as you
have about loans made by American financial interests to
Japan during the last six months.
Thanking you in advance,
Very sincerely yours,
thris dudeow
894.51
F/MR
SEP 2 3 1937
FILE.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
septemrer 22 1957
My dear Mr. Ludlow:
I have your letter of September 18, 1937,
requesting information as to loans made by Ameri-
394.51/508
eaa fimaneial interests in Japan during the last
six months. Although this Department has certain
information regarding the foreign loans of American
oitisens the Treasury Department collects much more
extemsive data and is in a position to give you
more adequate information. I am therefore taking the
liberty of direeting your inquiry to that Department.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
The Nenerable
Leuis Ludlew,
Gommittee en Apprepriatiens,
Keuse ef Represeatatives.
F
81 1937.ry
1

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.94)
8eptem0er 22 1957
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses for appropriate reply a copy of a letter dated
94.51/508
September 18, 1937, from the Honorable Louis Ludlow,
Committee on Appropriations, Houss of Representatives,
in whioh he requests information as to loans made by
Amerioan finaneial interests in Japan during the last
six months.
Mr. Ludlew bas been informed of this reference to
the Treasury Department.
seleoure:
Frem Mr. Ladlow
A true gopy of
september 18, 1637.
the sig
nal.
811937.
F/Q

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
894.51
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/10217
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
894.51/509
Far Eastern Division
Ballantine...) DATED....)ept..21..l)937..)
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese conflict: Japan's financial outlook.
REGARDING:
Conversation with Mr Kadono, Chairman of the Japanese Economic
Mission, on way back to Europe from Japan.
F/MR
FRG.
50

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.95)
E
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASÉP 2 9 1937
RECEIVED
ADVISER ON
FA/
DIVIBIUN OF
September 28, 1937.
FILE - JAPAN
894.51
Mr. Lochhead telephoned to state that his further
investigation in New York had disclosed that Japanese
894.51/510
banks had net assets in New York of 14 million dollars.
The figure which I obtained last week from him concern-
ing Japanese balances in New York covered only the
Federal Reserve Bank and New York branches of Japanese
banks, and in these banks there were disclosed no bal-
ances but a net million-dollar overdraft. (This latter
figure was used in a recent report on Japan's foreign
F/MR
exchange resources.) The figure of 14 million dollars
is one which Mr. Lochhead considers vory accurate.
Mr. Lochhead also stated that a shipment of gold
valued at 4 million dollars had been shipped directly
from Japan to London more or less as an experiment but
that it was unsuccessful and will probably not be
repeated.
6
 1931
gong
EA:JMY:EB

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
033.9411 Ishi1,Viscount/6
Despatch 2592
SEE
FOR.
894.51/51
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
September 17,1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
Projeoted Japanese finanoial mission to United States.
REGARDING:
Conversation of Counselor Dooman with Mr.Yoshizawa of
Foreign Office.Ambassador will inform Department if there
appears any substantialbasis for believing that the Japanese
Government will broach subject of seeking financial assistance
from the United States.
drp
51

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
6
Mnited States Benate
RECEI
DEPARTMENT OFSTAGGMMITTE ON COMMERCE
PAM9
October 5, 1937
DIVISION OF
Division of
COMMUNICATIONS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AND RECORDS
AOCT 6 - 1937
October 9 1937
Department of State
894.51
Ripes drasd
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Oci 9-w7
894.51/512
I enclose for your kind attention the attached
two letters, with regard to American banks lending money
to Japan.
Cordially yours,
Royal S. Copeland
The Honorable Cordell Hull
F/MR
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
OT11 1937
FILE

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
Sept. 30, 37
994 East Broadway
Woodmere, New York
Senator Dr. Royal S. Copeland.
Dear Senator Copeland,
Is it true that the Nanking government has made a
threat against American civilians in China? If so, our
honor is at stake now. We are selling arms to the
aggressor "nolens volens".
I am informed that two banks in this country are
lending money to Japan; if so is it not my right as a
citizen to ask which banks?
I have very small income, and must proteot my
interests if humanly possible.
I shall be grateful for your help.
Very truly yours
HELEN HALE RASMUS

=== Page 304 === (confidence 1.00)
2018 R St. N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Sept. 29, 1937
The Honorable Royal S. Copeland,
U. S. Senator from the State of N.Y.,
Senate Building,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:-
Word is being circulated that there are two particular
banks which are using the deposits of their bank for
the purpose of partially financing Japan in their
present aggression in China.
As an American citizen interested in maintaining neutrality
at any cost, I feel that this action on the part of our
American banks is traitorous and should be investigated.
I am therefore sending this letter as an individual
protest against such action and a request that the
matter be looked into.
With many thanks, I am,
Yours very truly,
ALLENE E. THORNBURGH
(Miss) Allene E. Thornburgh

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.90)
Oetober 9 1937
Ry dear Senator Copeland:
I msknowledge the receipt of your letter of Ootober 5,
394.51/512
1957, with whioh you enclosed for the attention of this
Department letters from Miss Helen Hale Rasmus, 994 East
Broadway, Woodmere, Now York, and Miss Allene . Thorn-
burgh, 2018 R Street, N. W., Washington, D. C., in regard
to a roport that banks in this country are lending money
to Japan.
I enolose copies of the Department's letters to
F/MR
Miss Raamus and Miss Thornburgh.
The letters from these ladies to you are herewith
returned.
Sineerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enclesuses:
1. Frem Mies Res
Sope 30, 1987.
S. To Mime Rasms.
Paem am Thormburgh,
taised steteé
Senate.
1037
Routine
EA
FB
.
HT

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.90)
October 9 1937
My dear Miss Rasmus:
Reference is made to a letter addressed by you to
394.51
Senator Royal S. Copeland under date of Septomber 30,
1937, and forwarded by him to the Department in which
you inquired whether "the Nanking governm nt has made a
threat against American civilians in China" and asked
2
which American banks are lending money to Japan.
with reference to your first inquiry, the Department
is not aware that the Chinese Govermment has made any
7:
threat against American citisens. It is not believed
万
that there is any basis in faet for any report to that
effest whieh may have reaahed you.
with
Mies Nolem Nale Res,
994 mast Bre0dmey.
Woodmare, New York.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
With referenee te your secemd inquiry, it seems
prebable thes you have observed reports of eredits
aévaneed by Ameriean banks se a sertain Japanese benk
against gold im transit from Japan to the Uaited states.
Smsh transeetioms are mot oonsidered to be "loans" in
the ordinary sense of the word.
sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
m.mN.
Maxwell M. Hamilton,
Chief,
Division of Yar Eastern Affairs.
A true cepy of
the slaned origly
.m
√aom
OCT 9 1957.
NT
EA
FE:WTT:HES:REK
FE
10/8/37
HF

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.90)
October 9 1957.
My dear Miss Thoraburgh:
Roferenee is made to a letter addressed by you to
394.51/
Benator Royal S. Copeland under date of September 29,
1957, and forwarded by him to the Department, in which
you state that word is being ciroulated that there are
two Ameriean banks whioh are using their deposits for
the purpose of partially financing Japan in the confliot
with China. You state that you feel that this aotion is
traisorous and should be investigated.
It seems probable that you have observed reports of
sredits advaneed by American banks to a certain Japanese
bank against geld in transit from Japan to the United
steses. Sush transactiens are not considered to be
"leans" in the ordinary sense of that word but are of
the mature of ordinary csmmereial short-term eredits.
Sineerely yours,
For the Searetary of State:
3.3./1
/m
Marwell X. mamilten,
OCT 9 1937.
caief.
DAvisien of Far Basters Affairss
Mss Allese E. Theraburgh,
...
EA/HF
.
10/0/s7

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
CONFIDENT IAL
Division of
DOR
ADVISER ON
Department of Stal
file
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
October 2, 1937.
MR. HORNBECK
OCT - 5 1937
The Secretary of the Treasury telephoned me this
except for one small gold shipment to England there were
no publicly traceable movements of gold out of Japan
since September 1. The Secretary apparently inclines
STATE
894.51
to the blief that accruing obligations were such as to
make a ovement of gold necessary. He is apparently t
IV
3
AREN
taining the theory that gold may be going out of Japan
secretly& Italy and Germany, and from these places
C
894.5
beng sold either to him or to the British.
He asked that we cable the Embassy at Tokyo for a
list of sailings from Japanese ports to German and Italian
ports since September 1.
5
He had a further idea that we might then cable our
sermarry
missions or consulates in Japan and Italy and have them
watch for the departure or arrival of these boats and
see whether any gold was being loaded or unloaded.
At this point I resisted, saying it was doubtful
F
whether our representatives could become observers of
F/A
the unloading of boats from Japan, We compromised by an
agreement whereunder I promised to send the attached cable
to Tokyo and to raise the question in this Department as
to whether or how we could be of any assistance in further
HF
tracing any gold movements of the type he had in mind.
EA: HF: LWW

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRA
DONFIDENTIAL
MECLIVEL
PAR: aepattment of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL GODE
PARTAIR
PLAIN
1957 OCT 4 AM 11 40
Washingion.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNCATIONS
October 4, 1937.
894.51
ADS
This cable was sent in conenl Cde.
It should  careiull saramnrased befgre
AMEMBASSY,
heing comneurmcated io anvene. C-/
TOKYO (JAPAN).
246
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
Treasury states that as far as it knows Japan shipped
no gold since September 1 except for one small shipment to
394.51/:513
England? In view of accumulating obligations it is inter-
ested in knowing whether shipments are secretly being made,
perhape through /Italy/and Germany? Has anything come to
the attention of the Embassy which might bear on this
matterr
0081937
F/A
Do. Fri slotes
EA:HF:DJW
M..

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
MBo 2- No. 454, October 6, from Tokyo.
shipped on October 4.
ThrEE. The Commercial AttachE specifically asked thE
VicE Governor whether any gold shipments had bEen madE to
other countriEs and thE VicE Governor rEplied that no
shipments had bEen madE to other countries savE onE to
England in SEptember amounting to yen 13,000,000.
GREW
RR:WWC

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
PARTIAL PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRA RECNIVED
FROM:
Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
October 6, 1937, 7 p.m.
NO.:
454
Reference is made to telegram No. 246 of October 4,
noon, from the Department.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
The Commercial Attaché has received from the Vice
Governor of the Bank of Japan the following data on gold
shipments from Japan to the United States from Maroh of
this year to the fourth of October:
From Maron through June 3,725,000 ounces valued at
$130,000,000 or yen approx1mate 449,000,000. During
August: 675,000 ounces va lued at $23,570,000 or yen
approx1mate 80,000,000. rirst half of September:
500,000 ounces valued at $17,470,000 or yen approximate
60,000,000. October 4: 190,000 ounces valued at $6,650,000
approximate or yen approx1mate 23,000,000. A total of
5,090,000 ounces valued at $177,690,000 approximate or yen
approximate 612,000,000.
The statement was made by the Vice Oovernor that within
the next few days it may be necessary to suip a further
quantity to the United States of about the same value es that
shipped on the fourth of October.
The

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.90)
- 2 -
The Vice Governor was specifically asked by the
Commereial Attaché whether any gold shipments had been
made to, other countries. The Vice Governor replied that
only one such shipment had been made, in September, in
the amount of yen 13,000,000, which wee to England.
GRER
EA:LWW

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
07-1937
Department of State
reu7
Octeber 6, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
894.51/514
encloses six copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 454
of Ootober 6, 1937, from Tokyo.
894.51/514
F/MR
of
EA: LWW
HF

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
mxtmrnt of State
HARINNIOSTATE
Washingion,
ASURY
1D57 NOV 2 PM 5 14
Nov ember , 1937.
DIVISION OF
AMENBASSY
COMMUNCATIONS
ANDS
TOKYO (JAPAN)
894.51/514
283
Your 454, October 6.
Actual Japanese export of gold to United States since
894.51/514
Ootober 1 has been much larger than amount mentioned by
Vioe Governor of the Bank of Japan. Treasury would like
to know how much more of a gold movement it might have to
anticipate between now and beginning of next year. Will
you endeavor to procure information on this point if and
as it can be done without embarrassment.
Please keep Department fully informed as to all
developments in Japanese situation which may affect the
to the Treasury.
F/MR
Weller
Acting.
HRW

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
1938 JUL 13 PM 3 15
November 5, 1937.
ATIONS
NEUTRALITY ACT
RECORDS
LOANS AND CREDITS
OFFICE OF THE AUVIGER CR
INTERNATIONAL ECO AFAIRS
"
EA
NOV181937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dr Feis:
894.5
The situation presented in the memorandum enclosed
with Mr. Lancaster's letter of October 6, 1937, as I
understand it, is somewhat as follows:
51/5
The National City Bank in New York has opened, and
is now opening, credits on behalf of Oriental banks to
be drawn on in payment for goods exported from the
United States. The credits, so it appears, were and are
2
being established through applications made by merchants
in the Far East to independent banks in China and Japan
or to foreign branches of the National City Bank.
On
establishing the credit the National City Bank agrees to
accept drafts drawn on it to the extent of the credit when
accompanied by the bills of lading and certain other docu-
ments covering the exports. The notification sent by the
Bank in response to the application for the establishment
of credit contains the provision that: "The engagement
F
/WB
and undertaking referred to in this paragraph being binding
only if the shipments proposed shall be permitted under
the

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
the Amerioan Neutrality Act of August 31, 1935, as amended,
and such proclamations, orders and regulations as may be
issued thereunder."
The Bank apparently envisages the possibility of
certain difficulties with respect to these transactions in
the event of a proclamation under the so-called Neutrality
Act of May 1, 1937, and desires that some exception or
exceptions should be made in the proclamation with respect
to these transactions. The Bank refers specifically to
Section 1(a), Section 2(a) and (b), and Section 3(a).
Section 1(a) provides for the placing of an embargo
on the exportation of arms, ammunition, and implements
of war. Shipments of these articles would, therefore,
be unlawful after the issuance of a proclamation and,
consequently, the agreement by the Bank to establish and
maintain a credit would be safeguarded by the above-quoted
provision incorporated in its acceptance and no obligation
to honor drafts covering shipments of this kind would arise.
Section 2(a) merely authorizes the President in his
discretion to issue a proclamation specifying certain
articles which it shall be unlawful for American ships
to carry. If such a proclamation should be issued, the
shipment of the specified articles on American vessels
would be unlawful, and hence the Bank would, under its
above-quoted reservation, be under no obligation to pay the
draft.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
draft.
The difficulty which the Bank contemplates of
ascertaining whether shipment is to be carried on an
American vessel is one which can not be covered by a
regulation. The regulations authorized by Section 2(a)
have to do only with lakes, rivers, and inland waters
bordering on the United States.
Section 2(b) - the so-called (cash and carry provision -
authorizes the President in his discretion and under
certain circumstances to issue a proolamation, making it
illegal to export any article from the United States to
belligerent states, etc., until all right, title and
interest therein shall have been transferred to a foreign
government, agency, etc.
If by negotiating a draft with the bills of lading
and other shipping documents attached the Bank would
have an interest in the goods, the shipment of such goods
following a proclamation under Section 2(b) would be
illegal. Here again the Bank would seem to be relieved
of its obligation by the above-quoted reservation. The
President has no authority to make exceptions to
Section 2(b) save as to lakes, rivers, and inland waters
bordering on the United States.
Section 3(a) provides that whenever the President
has issued a proclamation under Section 1, namely, that
there exists a state of war or of civil strife, it shall
thereafter

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
thereafter be unlawful for any person in the United
States to purchase, sell, or exchange bonds, securities,
or other obligations of the government of a belligerent
state or of a state wherein civil strife exists, or of
a political subdivision thereof, or of any person acting
for or on behalf of the government of any such state, etc.
This section comes into operation automatically.
Credits
of the character referred to by the National City Bank
might or might not be prohibited, depending upon the
relationship of the beneficiary of the credit to the
belligerent government, that is to say, whether the
beneficiary is acting for or on behalf of that government.
The section contains a proviso under which the
President may, if he finds such act would serve to pro-
tect the commeroial or other interests of the United
States or its citizens, issue regulations excepting
from the operation of the section "ordinary commercial
credits and short-time obligations in aid of legal trans-
actions and of a character customarily used in normal
peacetime commercial transactions."
While the President could, if he saw fit, issue
regulations of the character here indicated, he could
not by such regulations modify or limit the effects of
the prohibitions contained in Section 1, or those
contained in Section 2(a) or (b), if proclamations had
been

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
been issued under these last mentioned provisions.
It is noted that the Bank's reservation in its
notification of the establishment of the credit (Exhibit B)
refers to the Neutrality Act of August 31, 1935, which,
of course, is no longer in existence. I would suppose
that this has been changed since the passage of the Act
of 1937.
Green H. Hackworth.
Le GHH:AD

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
CA
L
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
RECEIVED
DEC 27 1937
gil
MEMORANDUM
December 3, 1937
1039
Mr. Hackworth:
NIGATIONS
EA aske for the construction by this office of the per-
F.W.
tinent part of Section 3 of the Neutrality Act having
reference to two hypothetical cases, both relating to
the status of branch banks in foreign countries.
894.51/514
Section 3 of the Neutrality Act of 1937 has not
been passed upon by any federal court. The conclusion
reached, considering the purpose and scope of the
statute, must necessarily be on a broad rather than
technical legal basis. The principle applied in the
reported cases as interpreted by the courts in usual
2
commercial transactions is one of agency. The decisions
are fairly uniform in holding that a national bank and
its foreign branches organized under the National Banking
Act (it is presumed that this Act would be applicable in
the instant case) are separate entities in business trans-
F/WB
MAR 18 1989
actions between them, but when considered with relation
FILED
to the parent bank, they are not independent agencies;
they are, what their name imports, merely branches, and
are subject to the supervision and control of the parent
bank, and are instrumentalities whereby the parent bank
carries

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
carries on its business. Applying this principle to the
two cases cited in the memorandum, it would seem that if
the transactions were carried out completely by the
branches of the National City Bank located in China or
Japan, Section 3 would not apply. I feel, however, that
the Department cannot lay down such a sweeping interpreta-
tion without having the details of each transaction before
it. Under the circumstances, therefore, it would seem
that both questions should be answered in the affirmative.
21

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
MEMORANDUM
December 3, 1937
In Murtaugh v. Yokohama Specie Bank, Limited, 269
N. Y. S., it appeared that Maki, a citizen of Japan,
procured from time to time during 1927 and 1928 thir-
teen drafts for 3,870.68 Japanese yen at the New York
branch of the defendant and forwarded the said drafts
to the main bank or office in Japan to be placed there
as a fixed deposit for one year at 5 per cent. When
the drafts were received in the main office and the de-
posit made to the credit of Maki, a certificate of
deposit was sent back to the New York office and Maki
was notified that this certificate of deposit would be
exchanged for the duplicate draft that was issued to
him when he bought the draft at the branch office. Maki
was duly adjudicated insane by a Pennsylvania court and
subsequently on March 13, 1933, Edward Murtaugh, his
duly appointed committee in Pennsylvania, was appointed
ancillary committee in New York, and as such, brought an
action. In considering the case, the court said:
"[1-3] While many points of law are raised by
the briefs, only one needs to be considered, as the
decision on that point makes it unnecessary to con-
sider the others. It is conceded by the plaintiff
that 'the money was sent to Japan and was on de-
posit there in the head office.' That it was sent
there

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
there by special request of Maki as a fixed de-
posit for one year and thereafter to remain as
a fixed deposit unless other arrangements were
made, is established by the documentary evi-
dence. (Defendant's Exhibits A, B, and D.)
The evidence establishes that the demand for
payment was made on the New York branch and
that no demand was made at the branch where the
money is on deposit. 'Deposits made in a
branch bank are payable there and there only ...
except, if the branch be closed or if demand
for payment by the depositor be refused, then
demand will lie against the parent bank.' Blue-
bird Undergarment Corporation v. Gomez, 139
Misc. 742, 744, 249 N. Y. S. 319, 321, and cases
therein cited.
"The same rule was enunciated in Sokoloff
v. National City Bank of New York, 25O N. Y. 69,
81, 82, 164 N. E. 745, where the parent bank
which was the depository was stated to be the
place where a demand was to be made unless it
was closed or demand refused. Thereafter, be-
cause of the breach of contract, he may recover
his damages in New York where he sought his
remedy in dollar value at the time of demand at
the foreign depository. Plaintiff argues that
because the depositor is insane and cannot make a
demand at Yokohama, the rule should be different.
While there may be hardship under the circum-
stances, it is manifest that the committee has no
rights arising out of the contract of deposit
greater than those that the depositor himself
had. .Upon the evidence the complaint is dis-
missed. Exception to plaintiff, who is allowed
a stay of twenty days and sixty days to make a
case."
In the British case of Richardson v. Richardson,
43 Law Reports, Probate Division, 1927, page 234, it was
held that primarily a bank was liable to pay only at its
branch upon demand; that upon demand and refusal to pay at
its branch, the parent bank could be sued, but that the
nade
breach having ben a refusal to pay in a foreign currency,
the cause of action could only be for damages. The bank
could

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
could not be sued for money lent.
Le:AO'N:RMB:SS

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
MEMORANDUM
December 3, 1937.
In the Bluebird Undergarment Corporation v. Gomez,
249 N. Y. S., Page 319, attachment proceedings were
instituted by the Bluebird Undergarment Corporation
against the Gomez Embroidery Company, in which an
attachment warrant was served on the National City Bank
of New York. The plaintiff obtained an order requiring
the bank to submit to examination concerning property of
the defendant, and moved to require the bank to serve a
certificate on the sheriff setting out information con-
cerning a deposit of the defendant's in their Porto Rico
branch.
In speaking of the transaction, the court stated:
"The right to this order and the power of the
court to grant it depend upon the determination of
the situs of the debt which was created by the
alleged deposit in the Porto Rico branch. The
question presented is of far-reaching importance to
the commercial and banking worlds. It is claimed
by the plaintiff, and it may be assumed, that the
defendant has moneys on deposit in the bank's branch
in Porto Rico. It thus becomes necessary to estab-
lish the relationship existing between a parent bank
and the depositors of its branches.
"It has been held that a corporation which con-
ducts business, makes contracts, and incurs debts
in another jurisdiction becomes domiciled in that
jurisdiction in respect to suoh business, and debts
incurred there are there attachable. Lancaster v.
Spotswood, 41 Misc. Rep. 19, 83 N. Y. S. 572, af-
firmed

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
firmed 86 App. Div. 627, 83 N. Y. S. 1109; Morgan
v. Mutual Benefit Life Íns. Co., 189 N. Y. 447, 82
N. E. 438; Lancaster Ins. Co. v. Corbetts, 165 Ill.
592, 46 N. E. 631, 36 L. R. A. 640, 56 Am. St. Rep.
275.
"[1] A branch bank is a separate and distinot
business entity. USCA title 12, 8 604; Pan-American
Bank & Trust Co. v. National City Bank of New York
(0. C. A.) 6 F. (2d) 762, 766; Chrzanowska v. Corn
Exchange Bank, 173 App. Div. 285, 159 N. Y. S. 385,
affirmed 225 N. Y. 728, 122 N. E. 877. In the Pan-
American Case, supra, Hough, C. J., writing for
the court, said:
"•... The Rio branch of City Bank existed
under the Act of December 23, 1913, and its
amendments (U. S. Comp. Stat. 8 9745). That
statute requires inter alia, that national
banks having foreign branches "shall conduct
the accounts of each foreign branch independ-
ently of the accounts ... of its home office,
and shall at the end of each fiscal period
transfer to the general ledger the profit or
loss accrued at each branch as a separate
item." That is, the branch is not a mere
"teller's window"; it is a separate business
entity.'
"Likewise in Chrzanowska v. Corn Exchange
Bank, supra, page 291 of 173 App. Div. 159 N. Y. S.
385, 388, the court said:
""... With respect to the question presented
for decision, the different branches were as
separate and distinct from one another as from
any other bank. The Legislature did not in-
tend, we think, either to authorize or require
a bank having branches to cash checks and make
loans to a depositor at any branch at which he
may see fit to call, for to do so would produce
endless confusion, and the statutory provisions
quoted do not require such a construction.'
"[2, 3] Not only are branch banks separate
entities, but deposits made in a branch bank are
payable there and there only (Chrzanowska v. Corn
Exchange Bank, supra; Pan-American Bank & Trust Co.
v. National City Bank of New York, supra; Sokoloff
v.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
v. National City Bank of New York, 130 Misc. Rep.
66, 224 N, Y. S. 102, affirmed 250 N. Y. 69, 164
N. E. 745); except, if the branch be closed or
if demand for payment by the depositor be refused,
then demand wiil lie against the parent bank
(Sokoloff v. National City Bank of New York, 250
N. Y. 69, 164 N. E. 745). In the instant case the
branch in Porto Rico is not closed, nor does it
appear that such branch has refused payment. The
defendant could not commence an action against the
bank in New York for the deposit made by him in
the Porto Rico branch. A branch bank being
separately indebted to its depositor, the existing
obligation lies primarily between such branch bank
and its depositor. The conclusion follows as a
necessary corollary that the debt owed by a branch
finds its situs within the territorial jurisdiction
of such branch. Although the branch deposit be the
ultimate debt of the parent bank, the obligation to
its customer, however, is localized so as to be con-
fined primarily to the branch where it originated."
"My conclusions are that the situs of the debt
is in Porto Rico, that the bank is not indebted to
the defendant in New York county, and therefore has
no property within said county belonging to the de-
fendant, and that attachment in New York county may
not be availed of. Proceedings predicated thereon
must necessarily be limited to property within
this jurisdiction subject to attachment, and cannot
be extended to property situated elsewhere.' Stine
v. Greene, 65 App. Div. 221, 223, 72 N. Y. S. 729,
731.
"The motion is accordingly denied. Submit
order on notice."
Le:AO'N:RMB:SS

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
MEMORANDUM
December 3, 1937.
In Chrzanowska v. Corn Exchange Bank, 159 N. Y. S.,
status
page 385, the question of the statutes of a branch bank
situated in the same city was before the court, and the
language used in defining its relationship to the parent
bank was as follows:
"The defendant required its depositors to agree
to draw their checks on the particular branch in
which they were depositors, and the checks were so
drawn and the accounts were so kept. With respect
to the question presented for decision, the differ-
ent branches were as separate and distinct from one
another as from any other bank. The Legislature
did not intend, we think, either to authorize or
require a bank having branches to cash checks and
make loans to a depositor at any branch at which he
may see fit to call, for to do so would produce end-
less confusion, and the statutory provisions quoted
do not require such a construction. If the check
had been drawn on another bank, there could be no
doubt but that such other bank not only might, but
it would have been its duty to, refrain from paying
the check if it had notice of the death of the
drawer. Glennan v. Rochester Trust & Safe Deposit Co.,
supra. If the check had been drawn upon and returned
by another bank, the rule is well settled that the
defendant would have had the right to charge it up
against the depositor's account."
To the same effect was the decision in the Pan-American
Bank and Trust Company v. the National City Bank, 6 Fed.
(2d Series) page 763. Discussing the branch bank, the
court used this language:
"But the Rio branch, in so becoming a holder
of the drafts, and then sending them to New York
for

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
for collection, assumed the same relation to its
home office that any other bank or person that had
similarly negotiated the paper would have assumed.
In fact, as the evidence shows, the drafts and
accompanying documents went from the Rio branch
to the New York home office with a demand for
credit; i.e., a demand for payment, and payment by
the demanded credit was given the branch. This was
just what the cited act of Congress in effect re-
quires, and illustrates the rulings that, in respect
of the collection of forwarded paper, branches and a
parent bank are to be considered as separate enti-
ties. Woodland v. Fear, 7 E. & B. 5l9; Clode v.
Baylay, 12 M. & W. 579; McNeil v. Wyatt, 3 Humph.
(Tenn.) 125, considering the point generally; U. S.
Bank v. Goddard, 5 Mason, 366, Fed. Cas. No. 917,
under the statutes regulating the Bank of the United
States; and Chrzanowska v. Corn Exchange Bank, 173
App. Div. 285, 159 N. Y. S. 385, affirmed 225 N. Y.
728, 122 N. E. 877, under statutes regulating banks
chartered by the state."
Le:AO'N:RMB:SS

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
MEMORANDUM
December 3, 1937.
In Sokoloff v. National City Bank, 224 N. Y. S.,
pages 102-129, the facts are these:
The plaintiff deposited with the National City
Bank of New York money for the purpose of opening an
account in its Russian branch, and received therefor
a receipt that the money paid represented cost of a
certain number of rubles to be transferred to the
Russian bank to open plaintiff's account; there was
only one contract made with the bank of New York, to
be carried out in part by its Russian branch, and in
a separate contract with the Russian branch.
In considering the case, the court stated:
"[4] Where a bank maintains branches, each
branch becomes a separate business entity, with
separate books of account. A depositor in one
branch cannot issue checks or drafts upon another
branch or demand payment from such other branch,
and in many other respects the branches are con-
sidered separate corporate entities and as
distinct from one another as any other bank.
Chrzanowska v. Corn Exchange Bank, 173 App. Div.
285, 159 N. Y. S. 385; Pan-American Bank & Trust
Co. v. National City Bank of New York (C. C. A.)
6 F. (2d) 762, 767; Woodland v. Fear, 7 E1. & B1.
519; U. S. Comp. Stat.  9745 (12 US0A 8S 601-605);
Federal Reserve Act, 8 25 (Act Dec. 23, 1913, c. 6,
38 Stat. 273. Nevertheless, when considered with
relation to the parent bank, they are not
independent agencies; they are, what their name
imports, merely branches, and are subject to the
supervision

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
supervision and control of the parent bank, and
are instrumentalities whereby the parent bank
carries on its business, and are established for
its own particular purposes, and their business
conduct and policies are controlled by the parent
bank, and their property and assets belong to the
parent bank, although nominally held in the names
of the particular branches. United States Bank v.
Goddard, 5 Mason, 366, Fed. Cas. No. 917. Ultimate
liability for a debt of a branch would rest upon
the parent bank."
In the instant case the court held the contract was
made in New York; that the defendant had undertaken to
pay, on demand, in Russia, in rubles; it wholly failed to
do so, because it had removed its branch from Petrograd;
that the only form open to the plaintiff in which to
assert his rights was the New York courts; and that the
plaintiff was entitled to receive the ruble equivalent
in dollars at the time it should have been paid.
Le:AO'N:RMB:SS

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.97)
2on. 5-37 yeuog to.
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Fild
OCT 21 1937
he ea
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INTERNATIONALAEOONOMFCSAFPAIRS
Le
Mr. Hackworth:
ICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Since some of the questions raised by the National
F.W.
City Bank letter are certain to arise in the event of
the application of the Neutrality Act, and since some
of them involve considerable legal complexity, would
894.51/514
Le undertake to examine the legal aspects of these ques-
tions solely for the guidance and information of the
Department?
Would Le expedite the despatch of this brief
acknowledgment?
HF
FILED
F/WB
EA:HF:LWW

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.95)
12-3-37 memo, to mu. Hacknoet
Ge O'Neiel
LFAL ADVISER
NGV 19 1937
LE
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
3
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
Foe
DE PARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
K138 JU: 7 PM 3 15
November 19, 1937.
Le
ATIONS
Mr.AMa8EG0BBS:
This analysis iε most helpful. May I ask one further
question before circulating tnis?
Under the phraseology of Section 3 it is unlawful
F
"for any person in the United States" - does Le construe
this language to apply to the transactions that may be
894.51/
carried out through the foreign branches of American banks?
For example, would it apply to credit operations of the
branches of the National City Bank in China and Japan
provided Section 3 of the Neutrality Act were put into force
5
and no epecial exception made - (a) provided ultimate action
4
on the credit were referred to New York or the funds supplied
taken specially from New York; (b) provided the transaction
2
were carried out completely independently by the branches
of the National City Bank located in China or Japan?
H.F
FILED
F/WB
EA:HF:LWW

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
81
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL EGONOMIC AFFAIRS
Divzsion of
K
FAR EASTERN AFFAIKS
A01141937
me. withe
after the achnowledgerment
sent, I belheve that the mems
should be evrculated to the
Counsellor, LEr CA, and
that wE be asked to examinme
the legal aspests of the
question fully
4F

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.88)
LEGAL ADVISER
1937
DEPAR MONT OF SIAT
55
RECEIVED
NTERNA
SAOW York
DARTMENT OF
MR. HORNBICK
LOCT8-1937
0CI-71937
DEPARTMENT
1038
il
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PM 3 15
Octoter, 1937
PERSONAL
OCT 22 1937
JNS
RECORDS
Hon. Stenley h.  rbeck
Chief, Divr f Far Ees'err Arfirs
894.
Deperrent f Siate
De:
5
944.51
 ts n s t
5
n.
event of a neutrt lity ircclare icr because
ieturted
893.51
4
conditisexistiir theFer s
vin
890.51
letters f oredit it:
2
as to credit liratione hen
Ce f my ussuci
ates hs prerared a technicel memorereu on the s ee which
I am enclusinr ie tee thet te
ty arise of issuing
such e roclematicn, thr situations
described in the rencrandum mirht e covered.
AUG S - 1938
Alweys with ki:. regards, I am
MR. MOORE
Sincerely yours,
WNL/T
F/WB
Enc1.
Division of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIKS
CI1±1937

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
11 1939
REGEIVED
0
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
1938 JUL 13 PM 3 15
October 11, 1937.
191
JICATIONS
OFFICE OF THE ADVISEN ON
ANDRECORDS
IRREVOCABLE EXPORT LETTERS OF
INCHNANPAL COP ON AFFARS
CREDIT AND THE NEUTRALITY ACT
MAR13 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F.W.894.51/514
The National City Bank in a recent memorandum
points out that certain commitments which it is making
daily in the regular course of its international busi-
ness may be in conflict with the neutrality law, should
proclamations be issued by the President pursuant to
Sections 1, 2(a) and 2(b) regarding exports to China
and Japan. The Bank asserts that embarrassments to
itself are likely to result if proclamations become
1
effective on the date of issuance or without certain
2
reservations, foreclosing to the Bank the opportunity
of adjusting its outstanding commitments or of being
otherwise protected against civil or criminal liabili-
ties resulting from new legal restrictions following
from the proclamations.
The questions raised by the National City Bank are
F/WB
FTLED
almost exclusively of a legal character. The remarks
presented in this memorandum are intended only to out-
line the questions at issue.
The

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
12
The Bank's inquiries relate entirely to its commit-
ments under irrevocable (and presumably also, confirmed)
export letters of credit. Subject to the conditions
noted in the written contracts, the Bank is irrevocably
bound to negotiate drafts drawn by the exporter on the
Bank under credits issued in behalf of the oriental
importer.or the importer's bank.
The Bank's memorandum points out that in notifica-
tions to beneficiaries under credit letters the follow-
ing clause is now included:
"The engagement and undertaking referred to
in this paragraph being binding only if the ship-
ment(s) proposed shall be permitted under the
American Neutrality Act of August 31, 1935, as
amended, and such proclamations, orders, and
regulations as may be issued thereunder."
Apparently counsel for the National City Bank is not
entirely confident that the Bank is fully covered by
this clause as to its liabilities. Whether this is so
is not within the competence of this discussion to judge.
At least one important situation which the Bank has
in mind, indicated on page 4, is the case in which credit
terms are arranged covering goods which have to be
specially manufactured, and hence have a very limited
general market. Faced with the impossibility of getting
his goods, the oriental merchant may naturally be expected
to resist attempts to hold him to his contract. The
manufacturer, having been granted an irrevocable privilege
of

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
of drawing on the Bank, may be expected to resist any
obtain reimbursement from the Epposter.
effort the Bank might make to redeem its promise.
Hence, the prospect is that the Bank will find itself
owning an inventory of goods having a questionable
market. That the saving clause just quoted should not
establish the contractual right of the Bank to redeem
its promise seems strange. But the Bank seems to have
doubts on the matter, so we must go on.
Two methods of meeting the problems are suggested
in the National City Bank's memorandum:
(1) To make the effective dates of proclamations
later than the dates of issuance.
(2) For proclamations, if and when issued, to
contain such reservations and otherwise be made so
explicit that the rights of the parties may be clear.
As for the first alternative, the phrasing of
Sections 1, 2(a) and 2(b) of the neutrality law do not
appear to provide the flexibility necessary for delay-
gagee
ing the effective date of proclamations beyond the date
of issuance. The basis of this judgment is in the fol-
lowing passages from the law:
In Section 1(a) and (c) there appears the
specification that after a finding by the President
as to the existence of a state of war or civil
strife, ".
. . the President shall proclaim such
fact, and it shall thereafter be unlawful . . .
Sections 2(a)

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
Sections 2(a) and 2(b) similarly specify
that after certain additional findings by the
President, "
. he shall so proclaim, and it
shall thereafter be unlawful .
(The 1im-
ited exception stated in the section cannot
refer to the case in point.)
Congressional intention in these phrases seems
clearly to be that dates of issuance and effectiveness
of proclamations shall be identical.
As a second alternative method of meeting its prob
lem the Bank suggests: "That if, and when, proclamations
are issued, they may contain such reservations and other
wise be made so explicit that the rights of the parties
may be clear and the necessity for any such form of pro-
tection (i.e., by means of the saving clause) thereafter
thus be obviated." The inclusion in an executive procla-
mation of such detailed reservations, defining the rights
of parties in interest, is unlikely to be acceded to by
this Government. The intricate points of contract law
which such a proclamation would have to penetrate seem
to warn against such inclusion. The Government, in all
its astuteness, probably could not foresee or fore-weigh
the various conflicts of rights which particular cases
will involve. By following the Bank'g second suggestion,
the Government would probably find itself eventually
having taken sides with one or another of the parties in
interest.
Consequently

=== Page 341 === (confidence 1.00)
5
Consequently neither suggestion put forth in the
Bank's memorandum seems tenable. There is, further,
the technical question of law (centering on the saving
clause) as to whether the Bank is not already adequately
protected in possible civil or criminal litigation. It
1s scarcely conceivable that this Government or the
courts are going to be so unreasonable as to overlook
acts in good faith when the Bank can prove it has so
acted; and the Bank undoubtedly is taking every pre-
caution in this direction.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 1.00)
6
Some Further Notes
The following are brief notations of and comments
on some of the questions raised in the Bank's memorandum.
1. Part of the Bank's concern, as expressed in its
memorandum, arises from the effect the Neutrality Act
may be having on the Bank's competitive position in
getting export financing business. The saving clause
eliminates a guaranty which American exporters do not
like to relinquish, and they are therefore under induce-
ment to finance through foreign banks which are not so
restricted.
2. The civil litigation of which the Bank is
apprehensive would arise generally from three situa-
tions:
a) At the time the specific shipments are
declared illegal the Bank will already have negotiated
drafts drawn by the exporter. In this case the Bank
may find itself the holder of merchandise collateral
which cannot be liquidated (the oriental importer refus-
ing to pay for merchandise which cannot be shipped)
except at a loss. The legal question is that of the
Bank's recourse to the exporter. The Bank's memorandum
suggests that the confirming bank has no recourse to
the exporter.
b) Before

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
一7
b) Before the confirming bank has negotiated
the exporter's drafts, but the credit letter contract
having already been completed, the shipment becomes
illegal. The Bank has an irrevocable commitment to
negotiate the exporter's drafts on an illegal shipment.
c) The exporter is a resident alien or for-
2(6)
eign corporation. Under Section & of the Neutrality
Act such an exporter's oath that no American interest
exists in a particular bill of goods for export would
presumably be valid. Having received confirmation of
the Bank's agreement to negotiate his drafts, the ex-
porter presents the draft and lading documents. If the
Bank negotiates the drafts it is said that the effect
is "to inject an American interest in the goods prob-
ably sufficient to prevent their export, unless appro-
priate exceptions to cover routine commercial transac-
tions other than export should be made in the proclama-
tion. (Note Section 3(a).) If it refuses it may be
sued upon its express contract to negotiate, and, if it
does negotiate the draft the goods become unexportable."
(Page 3) In the latter event the Bank is in a position
similar to that noted in paragraph (a) above.
3. Regarding the statement in paragraph 2 (c) above,
". . . unless appropriate exceptions to cover routine
commercial

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
commercial transactions other than export should be
made in the proclamation (note Section 3 (a))," the
relevance of Section 3 (a) to the situation is doubt-
ful. The phrase in Section 3(a) which is in point
reads as follows:
"Provided, that if the President shall find
that such action will serve to protect the commer-
cial or other interests of the United States or
its citizens, he may, in his discretion, and to
such extent and under such regulations as he may
prescribe, except from the operation of this sec-
tion of the commercial credits -and short-time
obligations in aid of legal transactions and of a
character customarily used in normal peacetime
commercial transactions."
Is the latitude given the executive in this proviso of
such character as to allow qualification of a proclama-
tion under Section 2(b), which contains no explicit
provision for an exception touching on the case in
point?
4. The Bank's memorandum deals with three classes
of cases, which are anticipated with respect to Sections
1, 2(a) and 2(b), respectively, of the Neutrality Act.
A proclamation under Section 2(a) would prohibit
exportation of certain named articles in American ships.
The Bank anticipates that "no difficulty would be
experienced in these cases if time were given after the
issuance of a proclamation in which to reroute the con-
signment for shipment under a foreign flag unless the
goods

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
9
goods were inadvertently misdirected in the invoice."
No indication is given in the memorandum as to how much
time would be needed to accomplish this rerouting. Fur
ther, as indicated above, it seems unlikely that such a
time allowance can legally be made.
5. The Bank points to the "railroad through bill
of lading" as one source of potential difficulty. Ocean
bills of lading are not regularly required in letter of
credit transactions covering exportations by Pacific
ports to the Far East. In the case of railroad through
bills of lading "weeks may elapse between the time the
consignment is placed on freight cars at the interior
shipping point and the time when it reaches a seaport
and the exporting ship crosses the three mile limit
outward bound." It further points out that even in the
case of credits for which "on board" or ocean bills of
lading are required, there is always a chance that com-
plications may ensue from the fact that a proclamation
prohibiting export may be issued while the goods are in
the course of lading or before the ship has actually
left the harbor. These facts raise the question as to
whether the time allowance could be great enough to
cover cases which involve "weeks", even should it be
legally possible to postpone in some degree the effec-
tiveness of proclamations.
6.It

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
-10
6. It is noted that the saving clause
". . . represents an effort on the part of
the Bank to do two things.
"First, to warn prospective exporters that
the goods covered by their documents may become
unexportable, in which event the Bank will de-
cline responsibility. In other words it is a
warning that the American exporter must take the
risk under any proclamation which may be issued.
"Second, the Bank gives notice that it will
not knowingly be a party to any illegal transac-
tion and the clause is hence an effort to avoid
being put in a position where the criminal law
might be invoked against it or its officers."
(Page 5)
4w.
EA:HW:EB

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL EGONOMIC AFFAIRS
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT141937
m.hibbey
mn. wrche-
after the ackenowledgerment
sent, I beheve that the memo
should be evrculated to the
Coumsellor, LEr CA, and
that wE be asked toexamume
the legal aspesto of the
question fully
4.F.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
Jile
OCT 18 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
55
3
INTERNAIRECEIVED
1937ARTMENT OF STLeW York
MR. HORNBECK
OCT8-1937
ADVISER
OCT - 7 1937
DEPARTMENT
ATC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PM 3 15
OF
October 6
PERSONAL
OCT 22 1937
NATIONS
AND RECORDS
AUG 8 (938
LASTLHN ALL
Hon. Stanley K. Hornbeck
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
894.51/514
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
844.51
It has been called to my attention that in the
note
event of a neutrality proclametion because of the disturbed
893.51
conditions now existing in the Far East, banks issuing
890.51
letters of credit might be placed in an embarrassing position
2
as to credit obligations then outstanding. One of my associ-
ates has prepared a technical memorandum on the subject which
I am enclosing in the hope that should the unfortunate necessi-
ty arise of issuing such a proclamation, the situations
described in the memorandum might be covered.
AUG S - 1938
Always with kind regards, I am
MR. MOORE
Sincerely yours,
WWL/T
F/WB
Encl.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CT 1 4 1937
Department of State

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
September 21, 1937. 10.15
rendum to Mr. W.W.Lancaster.
2.15
Re: Neutrality
The Bank feels apprehensive over the possibility that as a result of the Sino-
Japanose situation a proclamation or proclamations may be issued under the Neutrality
Act which may be made effective as of the date of issue leaving no time for adjustment
of outstanding matters prior to such effective dates.
It will be noted that under the Neutrality law three different classes of
proolamations covering exports from this country are possible. The ank is concerned
because it has opened and now has outstanding credits on behalf of Oriental banks
covering exports from America which may be effected by any proclanation which may be
issued under authority of the Neutrality Act and is daily opening new ones of like
character. These credits are opened by merchants in the Orient who apply in the first
instance to a bank in say China or Japan, either an independent institution or one of
the branches of The National City Bank of New York. In either event the prospective
importing merchant is known or is believed by the Bank to be of such credit standing
as to insure the ultimate payment by him of the value of the proposed shipment. Assured
as to his credit responsibility the bank in the Orient advises the National City Bank
of Mew York on a form similar to that attached,marked Exhibit "A", the gist of which
is a request to The National City Bank of New York to negotiate drafts drawn upon it
or upon the Oriental merchant, when accompanied by invoices describing the goods,
imsurance policies of such a type as may be specified (war risk clause,etc.) and bills
of lading covering the goods.
Upom reeeipt of such request the Bank in turn notifies the beneficiary on a form
similar to that attached hereto, marked Exhibit "B",(the clause in red upon this form
ibe later addition and will be referred to below.)

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
omo. to Mr.W.W.Lencaster.
P.2.
The goods in question may be either standard commodities having a world
market such as, cotton, scrap iron, wheat, etc., or they may be specially
manufactured goods. In the latter event the American manufacturer will not ordinarily
undertake the production of such goods involving perhaps new dies and machinery without
assurance that he can be sure of his price for them as soon as the goods are shipped.
This assurance is given to him by the notification to the beneficiary on Exhibit "B"
above referred to. Under the established practice goods for the Orient are not
required, unless the notification so states, to be covered by ocean bills of lading.
Through bills of lading are acceptable and this is particularly true of notifications
heretofore made under credits already opened. Even in the case of credits for which
"on board" or ocean bills of lading are required, there is always a chance that
complications may ensue from the fact that a proclamation baring export may be issued
while the goods are in course of lading or before the ship has actually left the harbor.
This danger is vastly increased in the case of through bills of lading, since weeks
may elapse between the time the consignment is placed on freight cars at the interior
shipping point and the time when it reaches a seaport and the exporting ship crosses
the three mile limit outward bound.
As suggested above the anticipated proclamation may fall into any one of
three categories.
First, a simple finding that a state of war exists under Section I-A of the
law. No especial anxiety is felt in regard to this class of cases since the exporter
is by hypothesis already acting under license and cannot hope to obtain a bill of lading
without presentation of a proper exporter's oath. There is still some little chance of
difficulty in the case of through bills of lading since the exporter's oath may have

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
to Mr. W.W.Lancaster.
P.3.
been taken at the interior port and conditions may be entirely changed before the
goods reach the seaport.
The second class of proclamation (under Section 2-A) would prohibit
export of certain named articles in American bottoms. No difficulty would be
experienced in these cases if time were given after the issuance of the proclamation
in which to re-route the consignment for shipment under a foreign flag unless the
goods were inadvertently misdescribed in the invoice.
The third class of proclamation (under Section 2-B) would cover what is
popularly known as the "cash and carry" provisions. Such a proclamation would
prohibit the export from America to any belligerent country of any merchandise in which
an American citizen had any interest. Under such a proclamation various difficulties
are sure to arise. The exporter is obliged to take oath that no American interest
exists and if he happens to be a resident alien or a foreign corporation doing business
in this country he will have no difficulty in taking such an oath so that the papers
apparently will all be in order. If thereafter, however, he brings the documents to
an American bank already committed by contract and  under legal obligation to
negotiate the draft thereby accepting the bill of lading as its security for the
final payment of the amount advanced to the exporter, the effect of such negotiation
is to inject an American interest in the goods probably sufficient to prevent their
export, unless appropriate exceptions to cover routine commercial transactions other
than export should be made in the proclamation. (Note Section 3-a) Without the red
clause above referred to the Bank would be in the position where it must either
negotiate or refuse to negotiate. If it refuses it may be sued upon its express
contract to negotiate, and, on the other hand, if it does negotiate the draft the goods
becomeunexportable.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
omo. to Mr. W.w.Lancaster.
P.4.
There will always be a hope, of course, that the Oriental buyer will honor
his engagements and pay for his goods even when he knows that they are indefinitely
detained in this country, but this is by no means certain, and faced with the
impossibility of getting his goods the Oriental merchant may naturally be expected to
resist attempts to hold him to his contract to the best of his ability. The courts
of his own country would doubtless sympathize with him in his efforts. In such a
case should the goods be specially manufactured, and hence have a very limited general
market, the Bank is quite apt to suffer a substantial loss and this is particularly
true in cases where the credit has been opened at the instance of one of its own
branches. If a time were to be granted between the issuance of a "cash and carry"
proclamation and its effective date the Bank might be able to avoid this class of
difficulties by arranging for the negotiating of the draft covering the goods through
some foreign bank.
In the foregoing mention has been made of the civil phases of the subject
only. There is also a criminal aspect. The Bank becomes bound by its notification to
the beneficiary (Exhibit "B" above referred to) and this contract at the time it is
made is perfectly legal and binding. If after the effective date of a proclamation
an attempt is made to export the goods the officers of the Bank might be accused of
being parties to an illegal exportation. In other words as being guilty of a crime.
Note the provision that an exporter's oath estops all American interest including
apparently that of a bank ignorant of the material facts. As one illustration of the
way in which difficulties might arise under a proclamation forbidding exports in
American vessels, suppose that the invoice accompanying a draft contains terms which

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr.W.W.Lancaster.
P.5.
are ambiguous the goods actually being merchandise on the prohibited list which cannot
lawfully be exported in an American vessel. The Bank, however, deceived by the terms
of the invoice negotiates the drafts and forwards the bill of lading to its Oriental
correspondent. The charge is subsequently made that a more careful reading of the
invoice should have convinced the Bank that the goods were prohibited exports and that
it ought not to be negotiated.
The red clause upon the notification (Exhibit "B") represents an effort on
the part of the Bank to do two things.
First,to warn prospective exporters that the goods covered by their documents
may become unexportable in which event the Bank will decline responsibility. In other
words it is a warning that the American exporter must take the risk under any
proclamation which may be issued.
Second, the Bank gives notice that it will not knowingly be a party to any
illegal transaction and the clause is hence an effort to avoid being put in a position
where the criminal law might be invoked against it or its officers.
The necessity for the use of this red clause is regretted since its incidental
effect is to drive exporters, particularly aliens or foreign corporations doing business
here, to deal with the English banks rather than the American, and it also tends to
drive business to such American banks as are willing to negotiate documents without
demanding such protection. It is hoped that if, and when, proclamations are issued they
may contain such reservations and otherwise be made so explicit that the rights of the
parties may be clear and the necessity for any such form of protection thereafter thus
be obviated.
Wartred Beaumnt
HB:og.
Hartford Beaumont.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
CREDIT NO.
CREDIT
CABLED
AL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK
MANILA
193
JECT TO THE CONDITIONS ON THE REVERSE WE HEREBY REQUEST YOU TO OPEN BY
MAIL
ON OUR
CABLE
AN IRREVOCABLE CREDIT IN THE ANCUNT AND AVAILABLE AS FOLLOWS:
YOU WILL INSTRUCT YOUR
BRANCH
AT.
TO PURCHASE THE DRAFTS
CORRESPONDENT
WITHOUT RECOURSE TO THEM TO THE EXTENT OF
THE DRAFTS TO BE DRAWN ON
Us
AT
MONTHS
SIGHT FOR
INVOICE COST OF
ME
DAYS
SHIPMENTS PURPORTING TO BE
FROM
TO
N ONE OR MORE SHIPMENTS.
MARINE INSURANCE IS TO BE COVERED BY
UNDERSIGNED
TO ORDER AND BLANK ENDORSED. FREIGHT IS
SHIPPERS
TO BE PREPAID AND INCLUDED IN INVOICE.
DRAFTS ARE TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY SHIPPING DOCUMENTS SATISFACTORY TO YOUR SAID BRANCH.
ILL OF LADING MAY BE MADE OUT TO THE ORDER OF THE NATIONAL CITY BANK OF
IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR HAVING OPENED THE ABOVE CREDIT THE UNDERSIGNED UNCONDITIONALLY
AGREES AS FOLLOWS:
TO ACCEPT UPON PRESENTATION ALL DRAFTS DRAWN PURSUANT THERETO
AT THE CURRENT DRAWING RATE FOR THE BANK'S DRAFTS AT SIGHT ON
OOETHER WITH YOUR COMMISSION FOR NEGOTIATION OF DRAFTS HEREUNDER AT THE RATE OF
% PER MONTH DURING THE CURRENCY OF
HE DRAFTS WITH A MINIMUM OF
CHANDISE.
THE ABOVE CREDIT EXPIRES ON
BY WHICH DATE SHIPMENTS HEREIN
2n
CIFIED ARE TO HAVE BEEN COMPLETED, BUT THIS ENGAGEMENT APPLIES TO ALL BILLS PURCHASED NOT
EATER
THAN
SIGNATURE
 HBALTH INSPECTION OR ANALYSIS CERTIFICATE, OR ANY SPECIAL OR UNUSUAL KIND OR CLASS OF
SUCH DOCUMENTS SHOULD ALWAYS BE SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED.
.CREDIT NO.
PLEASE DO THE NEEDFUL
YOURS VERY TRULY,

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.93)
OCT 18 1937
My dear Mr. Lancaster:
I have received your letter of Ootober 6, l937
and the enclosed memorandum, which expresses certain
apprehensions of the National City Bank over the pos-
894.
sibility that as a result of the Sino-Japanese situa-
5
tion a proclamation or proclamations may be issued
under the Weutrality Act which may be made effeotive
as of the date of issue, leaving no time for adjust-
ment of outstanding matters prior to suoh effective
dates.
2
I have taken the liberty of ciroulating your com-
mmnicatiom to certain persons in the Department of
state, and I assure you that the questions which are
reised will receive careful study and consideration.
Simeerely yours,
4
stanley K. Hormbeek
Adviser on Politieal Relations
willsam w. Laneaster,
A true cooy 
F/WB
OR
ss Wall street,
0OT
22 1937.
Now Yort, Bow Yerk.
FE
100
m.m.A.
NF

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./117
#2584
SEE
FOR
894.51/
FROM
Japan
Grew
-)
DATED
Sept. 14, 1937
TO
NAME
1—1127
aPO
REGARDING:
Financial affairs - Japan.
5
Financing Japanese military operations in China:
Submits report concerning methods of-.
mr
F/MR
5
5

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
After having approved supplementary budgets of ¥10,000,000
and ¥96,800,000 in July for financing Japanese military opera-
tions in China, in the first week of August the Diet approved
for the same purpose an additional supplementery budget of
¥419,635,200.*
The allotments of the last named supplementary
budget, which was promulg&ted on August 9, are roughly es fol-
lows: ¥257,000,000 to the War Ministry; ¥95,000,000 to the Navy
Ministry; ¥63,500,000 to the Finance Ministry; and ¥4,000,000
to the Foreign Office.**
On August 2 the Cabinet approved provisional increase for
one year of the income tax and severel other taxes, the increese
to yield an additional revenue of ¥102,000,000 to be applied
to the expenses of militery operations in North China.***
The
tax increase wes subsequently approved by the Dict. Apropos
of the tax increase, Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, Governor of the Bank
of Japan, stated to press representetives on August 2 that the
Government authorities were careful not to place the burden
of taxation on the masses in the present tax increese; that
the North China incident was but temporary in nature and cor-
respondingly the present measure of tex increase was but tem-
porary; end that the part of the expenses of the North China
Incident which could not be covered by this new source of revenue
would be met by public loans.
It was quite apparent, even during thc early part of the
month, that if the China situation developed into an extensive
campaign Japan would be forced to import considerably more raw
meterials for munitions, which would necessitate the further
shipment
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2525, August 6, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2531, August 6, 1937.
***
Embassy's delegram No. 244, August 3, 1937.

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.94)
Y.,CHAIRMAN
JOHN G. TOWNSEND, JR., DEL.
FREDERICK STEIWER, OREG.
LYNN J. FRAZIER, N. DAK.
HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR., MASE
lnited States Senate
RECEIVED
DOO,CALIF.
EARTMENT F SDOMMITTEE ON BANKING AND CURRENCY
.BROWN, MICH.
1937 0CT 8 PM 3 11
LEON H. KEYSERLING, CLERK
247 Hale Street
COMMONCATIONS
Beverly
AND REGORDS
Massachusetts
il
October 7, 1937
894.51
Honorable Cordell Hull
Division of
894.51/516
Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
10CT 8-1937
Qctober 14
Washington, D. C.
Dear mr. Secretary:
6u. q-10 am
WTT
A constituent of mine asks for the names of the
two banks financing Japan.
I shall appreciate any information you can give
me.
Sincerely yours,
F/MR
N.C.drdeefr
H. C. Lodge, Jr.
C.7
代x2
X

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.95)
Ootober 14 1937
y dear Senator Lodge:
I aoknowledge the receipt of your letter of Octo-
bor 7, 1937, in which you state that a constituent of
yours has asked for the names of the two banks financing
894.51/5
Japan, and request available information in regard to
this matter.
The Department has no information which would in-
dicate that banks in this country are engaging in "fi-
6
nancing" Japen unless by that is meant the extension of
normal commeroial eredits. However, you mmy wish to
make further inquiry in regard to this matter of the
Treasary Department.
sineerely yours,
F/MR
Cocdoll Hull
13 1937
Routine
EA
mmin
HF

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
RECEIVED
Division of
OFFICE OF THE AD
INTERNATIONAL ECONUNUY ATFAIRS
MOCT6-1937
894.51
Department of State
Professor James T. Shotwell called me on the
telephone from New York and raised as a matter of
speculation the question whether something might not
be done along the line of refusing to buy gold from
894.51/517
Japan. I replied that it must be kept in mind that
popular opinion has been expressed in this country
to the effect that this country must "keep out of war"
and toward that end must pursue a policy of neutrality.
I said that I was not possessed of sufficient knowledge
of problems of exchange to feel warranted even in try-
ing to have an opinion as to what might be done in
T
connection with gold or of what effects might possibly
MR
be achieved in that connection; and I suggested that,
if he felt inclined to study that question, Professor
Shotwell might confer with some of his friends in New
York who know about or are supposed to know about such
matters.
Professor Shotwell expressed great concern over
the present situation in the Far East. He inquired
whether I had seen Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler's statement.
I said that I had seen a newspaper account of it.
The

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
The conversation ended with expression on
Professor Shotwell's part of sympathy with and best
wishes for officers of the Department who are struggling
with problems such as those to which he had been
referring.
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.97)
E
Division of
IAH LASTERN AFFAIRS
der bile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NCT 9 -1937
RECEIVED
OCT 11 1937
ADVISER ON
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
October 9, 1937.
Mr. Gordon Rentschler, President of the National City
Bank, and various associates called on me yesterday. They
did not indicate any specific purpose but stated that for
the information of the Department they would like to outline
the nature of their interests and operations in the Far East.
This they did, describing their sizable investment in their
branches in Japan and China, emphasizing the fact that in
894.51/5
their Japanese trade relations (both in the operation of
the Japanese branches and in their financing of trade be-
tween this country and Japan) they had never suffered a
894.51
loss in their general trade activities. They stated that
Co
they of course would at any time make these activities con-
form to the policy of the Government.
I thanked them for providing us with this information.
F/MR
I stated that I of course was in no position to discuss
or expound major governmental policies as regards the Far
East.
which was to the effect that the undertaking by the National
City Bank of any credit operations of an unusual or long
FILED
term character in connection with Japanese interests would
at the present time be likely to give rise to much comment.
They readily agreed to this observation.
HF
EA:HF:LWW
11

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
894.51
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/10672
FOR
Memorendum
State Department
Far Eastern Division
FROM
(Ballantine) DATED
Sept 20.1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.51/519
Sino-Japanese conflict: Japan's financial ability to carry/on
REGARDING:
military operations in China.
Observations on-,
FRG.
F/MR F/FG
9

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Oct.19,1937
JWB
MMH
Reference Tokyo's No. 2600, Sept. 24, 1937;
Subject, "The Japanese Budget".
It is useful to note the final total of
expenditures authorized by the diet to
date: ¥5,474,566,294.
eceful
It is also to note the following comment
by the Embassy:
"It can be stated with confidence that the
¥5,474,566,294 thus far appropriated will
not meet the demands of the general account
through the fiaeal year (ending March 3lst).
Only some completely unforeseen turn of xxext
events could intervene to make unnecessary
additional approprlations by the next Diet.
The demand for funds seems far from ex-
hausted.
Incidentally, there is an error on page 4:
the tabulation of authorized borrowing
neglects to mention an item of about
144,000,000 yen authorized in the budget
for special accounts. The totalloans
authorized prior to the China Incident
was965,000,000.
Jng
FE?JMY

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.93)
20076
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
THE FOREIGN SER
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICAN0V 2- 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2600.
Tokyo, September 24, 1937
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE UDGET.
894.51
Cofni to Commerck
937 0 18 M 2 17
Copy nn 7F
Treaeun
894.51/520
JO NSSINIG
OEPARTEN
GOMMNI
A-M/C
Division of
RECORDING DESK
FAR EASTERR, AFFAIRS
FILE-
ACT191987
Department of State
B
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
The porable
OF STATE
MENT OF STETE
Washington
F/MR
NCV 3
state of the Japanese budget has been so compli-
cated by hastily enacted appropriations and legislation
1
6
CC
consequent upon the hostilities in China that a brief re-
view of essential points to date may serve to clarify the
501
subject. The Embassy's despatch No, 2513, July 24, 1937
transmitted the basic budget of the fiscal year April 1,
1937 to March 31, 1938 as promulgated on March 30, 1937;
the present despatch aims at summarizing, up to the present
time, the budget changes brought about since the promulga-
tion of that basic budget.
The

=== Page 366 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
The basic 1937-l938 general budget, it may be recalled,
authorized general budget expenditures of ¥2,813,937,971.
This basic general budget of ¥2,813,937,971 in itself was
huge by Japanese standards. The corresponding figure for
the preceding fiscal year had been ¥2,307,000,000, and in
1931-1932 had been ¥1,476,000,000.
That basic budget was approved by the 7Oth Diet, meeting
in March, and was promulgated on March 30, 1937. Since then
there have been two other sessions of the Diet, the 7lst,
meeting from late July to early August, and the 72nd, meeting
in early September. Both approved modifications of the bud-
get which greatly augment the total. The present general
account total authorized expenditures can be set forth as
follows (dates in the left column are dates of promulgation):
March 30, 1937.
General budget
¥2,813,937,971
March 30, 1937.
Supplementary
general budget,
58,197,902
July 29, 1937.
Supplementary
general budget,
China incident
96,809,496
August 7, 1937.
Supplementary
general budget
13,389,749
August 7, 1937.
Supplementary
general budget
7,317,570
August 9, 1937.
Supplementary
general budget,
China incident
419,635,200
September 9,1937.Emergency mili-
tary budget
2,022,671,158
September 9,1937.Supplementary
general budget
42,607,248
General account total
expenditures authorized to
date (end September 1937)
¥5,474,566,294
The two thousand million yen emergency military budget
of September 9 is not itemized (the Embassy is reliably in-
formed that it was not itemized even in submission to the
Diet

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Diet committee which passed it) beyond this brief division:
Emergency expenditure, Army ¥1,422,712,777
Emergenoy expenditure, Navy
349,958,381
Reserve
250,000,000
¥2,022,671,158
With regard to disclosure of information concerning the bud-
get the country is already on a full war basis. But, from
several indications, it can be taken as fairly certain that
the expectation is that this two billion yen will provide
for the period pending early January 1938 when the regular
Diet session gets down to work. Two billion yen is the sum
authorized for the direct money costs of four months of
hostilities in China--another proof of the magnitude of
Japan's view of the campaign, no matter how undeclared this
war may be.
It can be stated with confidence that the ¥5,474,566,294
thus far appropriated will not meet the demands of the general
account through the fiscal year (ending March 31).
Only some
completely unforeseen turn of events in China could intervene
to make unnecessary additional appropriations by the next
Diet.
The demand for funds seems far from exhausted. The
general account budget already exceeds its level of last
year by three billion yen and the end is not in sight.
What recourse to borrowing has been caused by these
huge appropriations?
The budget promulgated March 30, 1937 carried provision
for public 1oans in the sum of ¥770,823,677 as part of the
revenue to cover the ¥2,813,937,971 appropriated in the
general account. The supplementary budget of ¥58,197,902
promulgated the same day carried provision for public loans
in the sum of ¥51,627,902 toward covering such supplementary
budget.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
budget. Law No. 49, July 29, 1937,was authority for the
issue of public bonds to the sum of ¥96,000,000 for the North
China incident.
Law No. 50, August 9, 1937, amended this sum
to ¥406,200,000. Law No. 84, September 9, 1937, authorized
borrowings by the Government for the China incident to the
sum of ¥2,022,700,000. Both Law No. 84, and Law No. 49 as
amended by Law No. 50, contain the safeguarding clause that
if bonds which may be issued fail to realize their face
value, that is if the market will not take them at par, addi-
tional bonds may be issued to yield the difference. This is
an interesting provision in anticipation of marketing diffi-
culties.
In tabular form this authorized borrowing by the
Government is as follows:
March 30, 1937. General budget 1oan ¥ 770,823,677
March 30, 1937. Supplementary
general budget loan
51,627,902
August 9, 1937. North China incident
loan
406,200,000
September 9,1937 China incident 1oan 2,022,700,000
¥3,251,351,579
The Japanese Government is borrowing, on account of the fight-
ing in China, a sum in excess of the entire general account
budget of last year; and more seems to be ahead.
The total of public loans for financing of the general
account budget should not be considered the sole measure of
the Government's need of credit. The Japanese budget system
is a system which groups general governmental needs under
one general account, and (entirely separate from the general
account) sets up any number of special accounts for separate
projects. Many of these special accounts have required and
will require financial aid from the Government with funds
raised

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.92)
-5-
raised by the Government through borrowing. Such additional
credit requirements are not under discussion in the present
despatch.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
851.
CC:mg
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
11
n
1n
Moscow.
x

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.96)
Copic, mode
AND
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
FOCT121937
OCT 18 1937
EA
October
1937
MR. HOMBECK
Conversation:
OCT-81937
RECEIVED
Mr. Boies C. Hart,
OCT 16 1937
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Hamilton.
NCT 12 1937
RFCOR
OCT
Department of State
Subject:
The situation in the Far East.
894.51/52
894.51
Mr. Lancaster of the National City Bank of New York
called, accompanied by Mr. Rentschler, president of the
bank, and Mr. Hart, a vice president of the bank.
Mr. Rentschler acted as spokesman.
793.94112
Mr. Rentschler stated that they had called to tell me
just as they proposed to tell other officers of the Depart-
ment upon whom they were calling that the National City
Bank stood ready to cooperate fully with the Government in
any policy that the Government might decide upon in refer-
F/MR
ence to the present situation in the Far East. He said
that over a period of years Japan had built up an excel-
lent standing in regard to commercial credit transactions;
that the commercial credit transactions handled by the
00T 16 1937
FILED
National City Bank for business with Japan amounted in
value to approximately one and one-half million dollars
per month of imports from Japan, consisting principally
per month
of raw silk, and approximately one million dollars of
exports
11

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
exports to Japan. He said that the exports consisted
largely of raw cotton, wood pulp, and machinery and tools.
He said that the item of machinery and tools amounted in
value to approximately two hundred thousand dollars and
that this item undoubtedly was used in Japan largely in
connection with the munitions industry. He said that
since the fighting broke out in China in July the National
City Bank had been pursuing a quiet course but had been
handling such business as came to it. He said that not-
withstanding any loss that might accrue to the National
City Bank as a result of any action which the bank might
take pursuant to any policy which the Government might
adopt, he wished to assure us that the National City Bank
stood ready to cooperate fully in any policy that might
be decided upon by the Government. I expressed apprecia-
tion of this fine spirit of cooperation. I inquired
whether, should the National City Bank decline to handle
credit transactions, the business would not merely go to
other banks. Mr. Rentschler replied that refusal by the
National City Bank to handle such credit transactions
would seriously embarrass the handling of such credits by
other banking institutions.
Mr. Rentschler said, in reply to my question, that
the National City Bank branches in Spain had continued to
function

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
function there; that they were still functioning; and that
the National City Bank had had most outstanding coopera-
tion from American Consuls in Spain.
I thanked all of the gentlemen for calling and as
they left suggested that they might care to call on
Mr. Feis. (They had subsequent appointments with
Mr. Hornbeck and hoped also to see the Secretary.)
.m.
Mr. Rauntschlen said the rome thang
tu.
FE:MMH:EJL

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.94)
7
CYHEUNIVERSITY OF VERMONT
DEPATMENT OF BURLIRGTON.VERMONT
November 5 1937
nt of Political S1937 OCT 27 PM 2 57
tlh
October 26, 1937.
OF
Division o6
CO
FIONS
,193
The SecretAN9 op ORDSte
vs8.
0CT281937
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
A recent number of the uhristian Register quotes
894.51
a Washington dispatch of the United Press, under date of
September 4, to the effect that tvo large banks in the United
States are making loans to Japan to aid that country in
financing its war in China.
Unless I am seriously mistaken, recent policy of
the United States requires that any such loan be approved by
your office. It is inconceivable that your office approved
such a loan at a time when it was protesting against the very
acts which such loans would finance.
Are the facts, as herein stated, correctly pre-
sented?
NOV 5 - 1937
Very truly yours,
A.R.Carrall
Daniel D. Carroll.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.95)
November 5 1937
ply refer to
4.51/622
My dear Hr. Carroll:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
894.5
Ostober 26, 1937, commenting upon a report in the press
under date September 4 that two large banks in the
United States are making loans to Japan.
You are in error in supposing that there is any
522
requirement that loans of American banks to any foreign
borrower be approved by the Department of State. Such
leams may be made by any bank on its own responsibility,
subjeet, of course, to all pertinent laws.
The reports you have observed probably relate to
short-term eommeroial credits advanoed by American banks
to a Japanese bank against gold in transit from Japan to
the United States.
sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
m.m.W.
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Demiel B. Carrell,
F
Nov 4 1957:
The University of Fermont,
G
Surliagton, Vermont.
 copy of
the signed arigi-

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
THE UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT
fil.
BURLINGTON,VERMONT
November 8, 1937.
1937 NCV 9 PM 3 19
Division of
ON OF FOREIGN
File
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 12 1937
DEADMINISTRATION
Lettan to
The Secretary of State
V1 0 1937
M.Carroll
11/1/37. F.L.
Washington, Ro 
epartment of State
Dear Sir:
I have before me the letter which I received from your
office on this day (see FE 994.51/522).
I an very much interested in the statement therein to
the effect that I am "in error in supposing that there is
any requirement that loans of American banks to any foreign
borrower be approved by the Department of State."
894.51/523
The following quotation is taken from a widely used
text dealing with the foreign policies of the United States:
"In the case of private loans to foreign governments
or corporations floated in the United States, the State
Department since 1922 has adopted the policy of indicating
to the underwriting bankers whether or not such loans are
objectionable from the standpoint of any national interest
involved, without, of course, passing upon the merits of
the loans fron a business standpoint."
I know that such a policy has been followed by the
Department of State in the past and I know that it has been
effective in preventing the floating of particular loans in
the United States. It is that policy to which I referred in
my letter of October 26, 1937.
Am I to understand from your letter of Hovember 5, 1937,
that this policy has been discontinued?
NOV 1 6 1937
PILED
Very truly yours,
D.P Carrall
F/FG
Laniel B. Carroll.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.95)
November 12 1937
My dear Mr. Carroll:
I m in receipt of your letter of November 8, 1937
regarding foreign loans.
You refer to & polioy publioly announoed by the
Department of State in 1922 whereby American bankers
89
comtemplating the public flotation of issues of foreign
4.
bonds in the American market were invited to inform the
5
Department and request the Seoretary of State, in writing,
for an expression of the Department's views, in order
5
2
that the Department should have the opportunity of saying
3
to the underwriters conoerned that there was or was not
objection to any partioular issue. Concerning this
polioy you may wish to consult Senate Dooument No. 187,
7let Congress, 3d Session, a report on the matter in
response to a Senate resolution. The Department does not
have copies of this report available for distribution.
In
Mr. Daniel B. Carroll,
Department of Politioal Soience,
The University of Vermont,
F
F
Burlington, Vermont.
G

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.91)
-2
Im this report Seoretary Stimson said in part:
"Save in regard to a small mumber of countries where we
have special obligations arising out of treaties, there
is mo authorisation of law, constitutional or statutory,
so far as the Department is aware, which expressly
gives to the Department of State a right or duty to
approve or disapprove investment seourities offered in
the United States by foreign governments, corporations,
or individuals". The polioy in question has been
discontinued since 1933.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Herbert Feis
Adviser on International
Eoonomic Affairs
A lype copy of
ned erigis
R
NOV 12 1937.
gmg 
NOV 12 1937.PM
EA:FL:BMF
11-11-37
FE
jas
み
m.m.ll

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 25, 1939.
Upon the completion of the memorandum
entitled "The Matter of an Import and Ex-
port Embargo against Japan" I discussed
with Mr. Hamilton the matter of sending a
copy to the Embassy at Tokyo for the in-
formation and comment of the stafr there.
It was decided, however, to await the com-
pletion of KA's memorandum on "Japanese
Gold and Foreign Exchange Resources" in
order that the figures of estimated de-
pletion of Japan's foreign exchange re-
sources in the event of an embargo might
be inserted in revised and final form.
EA now proposes to send a copy of its
recently completed memorandum to Tokyo.
I have discussed with Mr. Luthringer the
matter of sending an instruction to Tokyo
and he agrees with me that it would be a
good thing to send copies of both of the
memoranda in question together with the
same covering instruotion. With his
knowledge and consent, therefore, I have
drafted the transmitting instruotion and
after you have initialed it I propose to
take it personally to Mr. Luthringer.
MAY21939

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.51/
SEE
123
Bullitt, William C./382
Coet denual File
FOR
#1267
52
France
Bullitt
DATED
Nov.23, 1937
FROM
5
TO
NAME
1—1127
OPO
2ーー
REGARDING:
Visit of Ambassador Bullitt to Warsaw. Memorandum of conversation
between the Ambassador and the Ja panese Ambassador to Poland.
Ambassador Sakoh expressed the belief that if the present Sino-
Japanese war lasted six months longer Japan would collapse
financially and economically.
SEE enclosure No.2, page 2.
Confidential File
tfv
894.51
/523

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./118
Despatch #2624
SEE
FOR
FROM ......Japan
(-.-Grew--
) DATED 005.13,-1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.51/
REGARDING:
Financial conditions in Japan:
Report on-, for month of September,1937.
4
aa

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
As already stated, an emergency military budget of over two
billion yen was approved by the Diet on September 9. According
to reliable information received by the Embassy, this emergency
budget was divided into the following items when presented to
the Diet: Army - ¥ 1,422,712,777; Navy - ¥ 349,958,381; and
Reserve - ¥ 250,000,000.
The total budget approved by the end
of September amounted to ¥ 5,474,566,294, a tremendous increase
over the budget for the fiscal year 1931-32 of ¥ 1,476,000,000,
over the budget for 1936-37 of ¥ 2,307,000,000 and also over the
basic budget for 1937-38 approved at the 70th session of the Diet
in March of ￥ 2,813,937,971.***
According
-27-
According to a statement issued by the Bank of Japan, the
Government's purchases of eold for 1937, based on the Bank of
Janan's buying record for July and August, will amount to about
two hundred million yen.
(t) Financial Tronds.
The money market was easy; both bank deposits and loans in-
reased, reflccting industrial activity; the stock exchange market
ws dull, with minor fluctuations in prices; and the average yen
oxchange rate was $0.28905 as compared with 0.290817 for the
month of August.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
FAR EASTER
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
AFAIRS
spartment of State
1937
MBO
1—1336
This tElEgram must bE
FROM
Tokyo
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
forE being communicated
Dated November 11, 1937
to anyonE. (A-1)
REG' 6:30 a.m.
SEcrEtary of State,
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Washington.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
/lwap
NOV111937
531, November 11, 1 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEpar tment's 283, November 2, 6 p.m.5/4
894.51
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
894.51/525
VicE Governor of thE Bank of Japan has furnished thE
following information to thE Coimmercial AttachE.
During October gold shipments from Japan to thE United
States wErE madE on six different occasions to aggrEgatE
amount shipped during the month being thirty-fivE thousand
fivE hundred and twenty fivE kilograns with an Estimated
valuE of onE hundred and thirty Eight million yen. During
November thrEE shipments havE bEEn madE to datE totaling
fifteen thousand four hundred and sixty fivE kilograms with
F/MR
an Estinated valuE of sixty million yEn. ThE last November
shipmEnt lEft KobE on thE ninth.
The VicE Governor stated that thE prEsent program of
FILED
thE FinancE Ministry does not contemplatE further shipments-
-1
of gold this yEar.
13671
ThE VicE Governor statEd that thErE has bEEn no changE
in thE dEfinitE policy of thE GovErnmEnt to maintain thE
yEn at onE shilling two pEncE and that therE is no indi-
cation

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
2- No. 531, November 11, from Tokyo.
cation of any unusual wEaknEss in thE yEn. On thE con-
trary thE yEn - dollar ratE is now higher than for sEvEral
months.
GREW
DDM:KLP

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.98)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEORAM RECEIVED
FROM:
American Embaesy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
November 11, 1937, 1 p.m.
NO.1
531
Reference is made to telegram No. 283 of November 2,
6 p.m., from the Department.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
The following information nes been iven to the
American Commercial Attaone by the Vice overnor of the Bank
of Japan:
Gold shipments to the United States during the month
of Ootober from Japan were made on six different occasions.
The total amount shipped during October was thirty-five
thousand five hundred and twenty-five kilograms; one
hundred and thirty-eight million yen is the estimated
value. For the month of November, up to the present date,
a total of fifteen thousand four hundred and sixty-five
kilograms hms been shipped, in three lots; sixty million
yen is the estimated value of these shipments. November 9
was the date of the last Hovember shipment which wae from
Kobe.
According to the Vice Governor, the Finance Ministry
under its present program does not contemplate shipping
any more gold thie year.
The

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.93)
一2一
The Commeroial Attaché was informed by the Vice
Govermor that there has been no change in the definite
poliey of the Government to maintain the yen at one
shipping two penee and that no unusual weaknees in the
yen has been noted. The yen-dollar rate on the oontrary,
is higher at the present time than it hns been at any time
for the past few months.
GREW.
ALW

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.87)
ovember 11, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses six cop1es of paraphrase of telegram No. 531
of November 11, 1937, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/525
894.51/525
F/A
AYdorig.
1mal
EA:LWW
FE
HD
neur

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
L. CARRINGTON GOODRICH
B40 WEST 288TH STREET
NEEYORFCATATE
1937
November 26 1937
44
November 18, 1937
Righy drafles
894.51
OF
an225
Division of
Hon. Cordell Hull AN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
kao
Secretary of State
NOV201937
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Department of Stato
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The daily press carries news of
894.51/52
loans from United States houses to Japan for the
business development of Manchuria and other parts
of the continent. The Ford Motor Company denies the
charge but officials of General Motors refuse to
comment. I hope that you will use the influence of
your great office to check any such loans. I would
even go one step further and suggest thatUnited
States Government refuse to permit any credits to
2
the people and government of Japan during this period
9
of aggression. This would seem to be inherent in the
treaty signed by this country at the Washington Con-
ference of 1921.
For a decade or more after 1919,
due largely to the idealism and untiring exertions of
President Wilson and later to such statesmen as Secre-
tary Hughes, there was a serious attempt throughout
the world to construct a new world order. The Leagu
of Nations, the Nine Power Treaty, the Locarno Pt
and other agreements flowed from these efforts. he
military group in Japan broke this order in Septembe
123l with calamitous results. The objectives of thi6
junta must somehow be checked. The cutting off of
financial aid would seem to be the simplest way.
Yours respectfully,
.L. C. Gabdrich

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.90)
november 26 1957
894.81/526
My dear Mr. Goodrich:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter under
date November 18, 1939, in regard to press reports of
loans by Amerioan houses to Japan for business develop-
ment of Manohuria and other parts of the oontinent.
The Department is not aware of any loans whioh have
in reeent years been made or are now being made to Japan
89
by Ameriean banking or oommeroial interests for business
development in Manohuria or other parts of the Asiatie
Continent. Hevertheless, the comments made in your
5
lester under asknowledgment have reseived careful con-
2
9
sideration and your eourtesy in makins your viows known
so the Department is greatly appreciated.
Sinserely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
F
A1
m.27./√.
Marwell M. Hamilten
Chief
Division of Far Eastera Affairs
Mr. L. Gesrington Geedrieh,
A true copp of
640 Weat sssth strees,
Dew Tosk, Bow York.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/11462
FOR
Te1/596,10pm
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Dec
1937
894.51/527
TO
NAME
1-1127
0r0
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japan's need of foreign capital.
REGARDING:
Position of British colleague toward granting of loans to
Japan. Outlines substance of his proposed cablegram to
British Foreign Office. Grews views in general set forth;
colleague has been advised in this sense.
FRG.
2

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.95)
EE
EDA
This telegram must bE
TOKYO
closEly parophrased
NOTE
befcre bEin cormmuni-
Dated DEcember 4, 1937
sated to anyonE (b)
REcEivEd 4 p.m.
894.51
Secretary of State
Washington
596, DEcEmbEr 4, 10 p.m.
STRICTLY  NFIDE TIAL.
OnE. y 3ritish colleccuE proposes to cable
his Government along thE following lines: Japan is
clEarly bEginnine to FEEl thE nEed of TorEign capital
for rEquireuents in Chine, in Yuichurin end at homE;
JapanEsE industrialists arE now pronching American
financial interEsts, notably (?) (?) awa of Nippon
Seng To. The prolongation of hostilities would bE
Encouraged by any success in obtainin such crEdits
in Englend, FrancE or thE United States whilE at thE
same timE our chances of Exercising moderating influ-
二
462
EncE in 'thE final sEttlevent we3ld bE dininished> On
thE other hnd an importnt factor in EEping rEspon-
siblE JapanesE industrial and financial circles anxious
for our gcod will is thE honE of obtaining Economic
assistancE after thE sEttlenent. The causE of a
faverablE sEttlement would therefore bE served if on
idEntical linE with rEgard to JapanesE rEquEsts for
Financial

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
EDA - 2 - #596, DEcEmbEr 4, 10 p.m. from Tokyo
financinl assistencE in any form could bE taken by the
threE goveinments concerned. The best answer to any
such appreaches is to rEply that Everything must dE-
pend upon thE terms of pEacE.
Two. CraigiE has written mE privately and
confidentially asking whetler I would consider sending
a tElEgram to my CovErrmEnt along similar linEs.
I havE told him orally of thE position of our GovErn-
mEnt concErning forEin louns and the difficulty of
lEgally controlling thEir issuancE. FurthErmorE, I
havE pointed cut thE inherent wEakmess of his pro-
posal, namely that if wE werE to makE Economic assis-
tencE conditional upon favorablE terms of pEacE and
if faverablE terns were then granted, wE would, at
lEast by implication, havE committed oursElves to
rEndering such assistancE. I indicatEd my bElief that
thE AmEri can GovErnment  uld not (rEpEat not) bE
willing to takE s ch a  osibi n. I alsc Expressed
my doubt as to whEther American financial interEsts
would bE disposed to providE capital for Japan under
present conditions.
GREW
SMS:KPL

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11501
FOR Te1 #601, 3pm
SEE
894.51/
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Dec 7,1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
528
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japan's need of foreign capital.
REGARDING:
Withholding of financial assistance, along lines suggested
by Craigie, has been advocated by French colleague in cable
to his government.
FRG.
51
28

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.94)
JR
This telegram must bE
Tokyo
closely paraphrased bE-
forE being communiceted
Dated December 7, 1937
to anyone. (B)
NOTE
REc'd 7:05 a.m.
Secretary of State,
laghington.
89451
601, DEcEmbEr 7, 3 p.m.
STICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
Embassy's 596, DEcEnber
10 p.m., withholding
finencial assistancE to Japan.
Iy rEnch colleaguc stabes that hE has cabled his
Governnent along thE lines of CraigiE's telEgram and
that in general hE agress with and supports Craigie's
suagestions.
GREW
DDU

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.96)
Li
12-14-37
/lvev
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEC141937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MBo
This tETEgram must bE
FROM
Tokyo
closely poreplrasEd bE-
forE bEing communicated
Dated DEcEmber 14, 1937
to anyonE. (A)
Division ot Rec'd 9:30 a m.
FAR EASTERH ALLAINS
Secretary of State,
DEC141937
525
Washington.
Departmient ol S
627, DEcEmbEr 14, 1 pm.
ReferencE Embassy's 531, NovEmber 11, 1 p.m.
JapanEsE gold shipments to thE United States.
894.51/529
OnE. ThE VicE GovErnor of thE Bank of Japan has
informEd thE CommErcial AttachE of thE following gold
shipments mcdE sincE rEport in tElEgram under referencE:
NovembEr 30, 208,000 ounces valued at approximatEly
6
25,000,000 yEn; DEcEmbEr 11, 331,000 ouncEs valuEd at
approximc.tε1y 40,000,000 yEn.
Tvo. VicE GovErnor stoted thct no further shipments
would bE mcdE this yEar.
GREW
DEC·16 1937
WWC:KLP
FILED
F/A

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.96)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAN RECEIVED
VROM:
American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan
DATE:
December 14, 1937, 1 p.m.
NO.:
627
I refer to telegram No. 531 of Novamber 11, 1 p.m.,
from the Embeasy, on the subjeot of shipments to the
United States of Japanese gold.
The Commercial Attaché of the Embassy hes been
informed by the Bank of Japan's Vice Governer that since the
report in
/the telegram above referred to, the following gold ship-
mente have been made:
208,000 ounces, approx1mate value 25,000,000 yen,
on November 30.
331,000 oune0s, approximate value 40,000,000 yen,
on December 1l.
According to the Vice Governor, the Bank of Japan
will not make any more gold shipments this year.
GREW.
KA:LWW

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.93)
December 14, 1937.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
enoloses six copies of paraphrase of telegram No. 627
of December 14, 1937, from the American Embassy, Tokyo.
894.51/529
894.51/529
hy  opy of
F/A
77

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.93)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Et
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DOR
ADVISER ON
DEC 15 193NTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
December 14, 1937.
894.51
DF0111937
Mr. Vecretary:
The Secretary of the Treasury informs me that the
Japanese Financial Attaché has made an appointment at
894.51/53
three o'clock this afternoon to see him. He believes
the question up for discussion will be the gold shipments
to the United States.
The Secretary of the Treasury has stated that he will
C
O
be glad to have me present if the Department wished any-
one present during this interview. Would you kindly in-
struct me as to whether it appears to you advisable or
not that I should attend.
HF
Deraded not to altend - on Sees motruction
HF
F/WB
2
EA: HF: LWW

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.51/
SEE
894.00 P.R./119
FOR
#2654
FROM ....Japan
Grew
DATED
Nov. 9, 1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
OPO
5
Financial Affairs - Japan.
REGARDING:
Government financial leaders publicly expressed optimism
concerning Japan's financial condition.
mr
894.51

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Government financial loaders publicly zexpressed optimism
concerning Japan's financial condition. On October 1 Mr. Masa-
take Ota, Parliamentary Vice Minister of Finance, ddclared in
an address before one hundred loading businessmen in Osaka that
the resources of the Japanese nation today would permit of an
expenditure of as much as Yen 40,000,000,000 for military pur-
poses. On October 20 Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, Governor of the Bank
of Japan, stated to newspaper representatives that there was
nothing to worry about concerning the monetary situation in Japan.
Mr. Kaya, the Financo Minister, stated in a press intorview on
October 22 that the Dict would n ot be asked for additional war
funds at its next rogular session; that in his opinion there was
no need for the Government to adopt a general price-fixing policy;
and that the absorption of public bonds was progressing smoothly.
On October 19 the Cabinet approved the Finance Minister's
plan for reducing Governnent expenditures undor the budget for
the current fiscal year by Yen 181,307,000. According to
Domei, the saving is to be accomplished by eliminating some
itoms of public works from the budget and by postponing expen-
ditures under other itoms.
VI.
GENER/L ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan for October amounted to Yen 297,299,000
and
*
Embassy's telegrom No.484, Octobor 21, and Embassy's
despatch No.2643, October 29, 1937.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
and imports into Japan amounted to ¥244,406,000, as compared
with exports for September of ¥292,300,000 and imports of
¥263,081,000. This reprosonted a favorable balance of trado of
52,893,000, as compared with a favorable balance for September
of ¥29,219,000.
The declino in imports can be explained partly by the Govern-
ment's rostrictive measuros against imports, and partly by season-
al decline in imports of raw matorials.
The Japanese Government's restrictions on exports deemed
absolutely necessary to the country in the present emergency
period and on imports went into effect on October 10, in accord-
ance with the terms of the law promulgated on September 10.
It was reportod by the press that the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, after reaching an understanding with Japanese
cotton textile manufacturers and raw cotton dealers, had decided
upon the following plan for the control of the cotton textile
industry: restriction of the importation of raw cotton to
1,500,000 piculs per month; imposition of an import control fee
of ten per cent ad valorem; and the announcement of an official
maximum price of cotton yarn every Saturday. It was estimated
that the restriction of the importation of rew cotton for the
year 1938 would entail a decrease in raw cotton imports of
approximately fifteen per cent as compared with the current
year.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.98)
894.51
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11462
Te1 #338, 7pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Dec 10, 1937
) DATED
394.51/
TO
Japan
NAME
1-1127
GPO
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japan's need for foreign capital.
REGARDING:
Position of U.S. government with respect to foreign loans as
affecting the Far Eastern situation; observations on question
5
raised by Craigie (Embassy's #596, Dec 4).
2
FRG.
532

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./120
FOR
Despatch.#2686
894.51/53
Japan
FROM
(.Grew.) DATED .)December.61937
TO
NAME
1-1127
GPO
REGARDING: Government finance.
Finance Minister expressed optimism -. The budget, exclusive of
military expenditures, has been drafted for the year 1938-39
for submission to the Diet.
ho
F/MR
3
C3

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.93)
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
In reiteration of statements made in Octch i, Hr. Kaya, the
Finance Minister, and Mr. Yuki, Governor of the Bank of Jepan, ex-
pressed optimism over Japan's intern tionel fin ncial position.
However, the JAPAN TIMES of November 5 repoite that the Finance
Minister had stated that although the Govornm t would not attempt
to moke any bosic adjustmont of the exisuing texution system it
wolid have to effect  fur ther inerease in tax retes.
On November 30 the Cobinet formelly :pproved for submission
to the Diet in the sossions seredulud to convsne in December the
tart budget for the fiseal year lene-ce, omounting to
Y 2. E68, 299. J00. This amount does not 1rclud suimates for the
continatior of military on stiene in   hich are yet to be
d.ro ft.d.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CA
A portion of this tElE-
gram must bE crosely para-
PARIS
FROM
phrasEd bEforE being comm-
unicated to anyonE (B)
Dated DEc. 29, 1937
Telegron to Toloyo
REcd 5:45
Dec.30,1937
Secretary of State,
DEC 31 1937
MR. HORNBECK
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
DEC 31 1937
DEC 3 0 1937
894.51
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Department of Sta
1783, DEcember 29,
note
(CRAY) A newspapEr publishEd this morning an articlE to
793.94
the Effect that by thE intermEdiary of a JapanesE bank the
subsidiary in Japan of a largE American automobilE firm has
just subscribEd 1,000,O00 yEn to thE bond issuE floatEd on
894.51/
thE occasion of thE Events in China. ThE director of this
subsidiary, an American citizen, dEclarEd to NICHI-NICHI
that this subscription had bEen madE in consideration of the
534
benEfits realized by thE company during long yEars in Japan
and that it had no political significancE. (END GRAY)
CONFIDENTIAL. I am informEd by thE Havas bureau hErE
that this articlE is based upon a telEgram from thE Havas
corrEspondent in Tokyo and that thE company in question is
JAN
the Ford subsidiary thert.
FILED
I would appreciatE bEin informed as to whether this
1938
report is truE.
BULLITT
F
A
RGC EMB

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
31
1957 DEC 31 PM 3 22
December
1937
40m
DIVISION OF
AMEMBASSY,
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
TOKYO (JAPAN).
389
Press reports Tokyo date line December 27 state
Ford Motor Company or Japan has purchased China inci-
894.51/534A
dent'bonds totaling one million yen. Please endeavor
to'conrirm and report'by telegraph with comments'upon
change 'restrictions which are said to prevent the
States.
Hull
URU
893.51
F
Jug
/MR
ay
PA/H
FE:JMJ:NN
stat

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EG
1—1836
FROM
GRAY
See legt' 7, Jam 7,5p.m.
Tokyo
Dated January 6, 193
Rec'd 7:05
a.m.
Secretary of StatE
B
ADYISER
MR. HORNBECK
08A
Washington.
JAN 7-1938
nwy
9, January 6,
534a
DEpartment's 389, DEcember 31
4 p.m.
894.51/53
ThE Ford Motor Company of Japan purchased in
DEcEmber National bonds of thE China incidEnt issuE
totaling onE million yen.
535
ThE company's rEprEsEntativE whEn sEEking pEr-
mission to rEmit threE million yEn rEprEsenting divi-
dEnds to JunE 30, 1937, was informEd by thE ExchangE
Control Commission that if hE would purchasE onE million
yEn of National bonds pErmission would bE granted to
rEmit onE million yEn to thE United States and that
JAN 1 1 1939
consideration would bE given for a further million as
wEll as for thrEE million yEn rEpresenting dividends
to DEcember 31, 1937.
F/WB
In this rElation whEn thE company's rEprEsEntativE
callEd on DEcember 23, 1937, to disouss assistancE to
bE rEndered by thE Embassy in accordancE with the
DEpartment's instruction 1388 of NovEmber 29, 1937,
hE

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- No. 9, January 6, 5 p.m. from Tokyo
hE rEquEstEd thE Embassy to do nothing for thE present
as hE did not anticipatE any difficulty in thE immEdiatE
future.
ThE Singer SEwing Machine Company's rEpresentativE
rEports that a similar proposal to purchasE National
bonds was madE to him somE timE ago when hE was
sEeking pErmission to rEmit company funds but no bonds
wErE purchased.
GREW
RR

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.95)
Gray
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANMITTED
OONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washingn
January 6, 1938.
1938 JAN 7 PM 4 37
5-P.sm.
AMEMBASSY
DIVISION OF
PARIS (FRANCE)
COMMUNICATIONS
.os
7
The information contained in your 1786, December 29,
6 p.m, was repeated to the Embassy at Tokyo, which has
894.51/535
replied as follows:
"The Ford Motor Company of Japan purchased in
December National bonds of the China incident issue
totaling one million yen.
"The company's representative when seeking per-
mission to remit three million yen representing divi-
dends to June 30, 1937, was informed by the Exchange
Control Commission that if he woula purchase one
million yen of National bonds permission would be
granted to remit one million yen to the United States
and that consideration would be given for a further
million as well as for three million yen representing
dividends to December 31, 1937.
"In this relation when the company's representa-
tive called on December 23, 1937, to discuss assistance
to be rendered by the Embassy in aecordanee with the
C
Depantment's 1nstruotion 1300 of Novombor 99, 1937, he
requested the Embassy to do nothing for the present as
he did not anticipate any diffioulty in the immediate
future.
"The Singer Sewing Machine Company's representa-
F/MR
tive reports that a similar proposal to purchase
National bonds was made to him some time ago when he
1958. PM
was seeking permission to remit company funds but no
bonds were purchased."
Hull
894.51/535
Ar
PA-/H uRu
10100Y

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.92)
January 6, 1928.
894151
Dear General:
I am glad to be able to send you a copy of
the short summary analysis of Japan's economic posi-
894.51/535A
tion about which we spoke yesterdey. Naturally, it
is only for departmental use.
Sincerely yours,
Borbert Fo
Enclosure:
"Observations on Japan's
Finanoial Position",
January 4, 1938.
F/MR
Gemeral Charles Buraett,
Duremu of Insular Affairs,
War Department,
Washington, D. C.
opax
A true gopy of
the ad origi-
JAN 6 1938.PM
nat. h
RAIWILM

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICE OF HE OVISER ON
A
IAFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MF JA01 21938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
J0 NO191410
ADVISER ON
JAN 1 198
INTERNAGRANALSCONOMIATAFFAIRS
January 5, 1938.
Bride:
JAAN12 19988
This is the memorandum on the Japanese economic
894.51
sure the Secretary will find it of interest and help,
and believe it fully clear and authoritative enough to
be sent over to the White House.
894.51/536
The net conclusions that appear are
(1) Japan would be able to carry on the type of
struggle it is now in with China almost indefinitely,
although at the expense of gradually using up all ex-
9
ternal reservee and therefore indefinitely having to
face all its economic problems without reserves.
(2) However, Japan's resources are limited enough
so that any extended definite conflict with a more
powerful enemy than China would speedily exhaust them
within a year.
A.F.
F/MR
EA:HF:LWW
11

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
January 4, 1938.
OBSERVATIONS ON JAPAN'S FINANCIAL POSITION
(The present value of the yen is 28.29 cts.)
Mr. Feis:
The article by George E. Anderson in the Washington
894.51
Post of January 2, under the headline "Finance Urges
Japan to Make Peace", represents a more critical situa-
tion in Japanese finances than appears to be warranted
894.51/
by the findings of recent studies made by this office
and by the Treasury Department. The following brief
statement suggests some of the more important qualifi-
cations and extenuations to which Mr. Anderson's con-
5
5
clusions are subject.
9
I. Internal Financing.
Although the appropriations authorised by the Diet
up to September 9 contemplated the raising of approxi-
mately  3300 million by long-term bond issues, actual
emissions up to November 15 amounted to only ¥ 700 mil-
F/MR
lion, with another ¥ 700 million offered in December.
These limited issues may be accounted for, partly by the
large stocks of war materials previously accumulated, partly
by

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
2
by the application of ¥ 332 million of the Treasury's
profit arising from devaluation of the yen in August, to
reduction of its indebtedness to and augmentation of its
deposits with the Bank of Japan, and partly by economies
effected in the General and Special Accounts (to the
reported amount of  l8l million for the current fiscal
year).
Although extensive new bond issues will undoubtedly
have to be emitted during 1938, and although there 1s a
limited body of private investors in Japan, it does not
appear that serious difficulty will be experienced in
having these issues absorbed by the Bank of Japan, the
Deposit Bureau of the Finance Department, the commercial
and savings banks and insurance institutions, with the
Government's recently established exchange stabilisation
fund as an additional element. Moreover, excess profits
of war industries may either be recaptured by the Govern-
ment or be required to be invested in Government securi-
ties. Government bond holdings of the Bank of Japan at
the end of October amounted to ¥ 664 million, compared
to ¥ 816 million preceding devaluation in August and
 454 million at the end of October 1936. Those held by
commercial banks at the end of September, amounting to
* 2,476 million, were ¥ 164 million less than in the
preceding

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
preceding September, and were equivalent to only 19
percent of the earning assets of such banks. The Japan-
ese banking system is in fact less loaded with Govern
ment securities than is the Federal Reserve System, and
has by no means reached its limit of absorptive capacity,
especially if the financing of industries less essential
in the war economy is curtailed. Even though sales of
new Government securities on a large scale are bound to
have an inflationary effect, this can be sustained to a
considerable extent before Japan will be seriously
embarrassed in its internal financing.
II. External Financing.
Although Japan's position is much more vulnerable
on the side of external financing, the situation here
has not yet become really critical. Based on a detailed
analysis of Japan's actual and potential foreign exchange
resources and of the extent to which these are being
used up, the Treasury Department concludes that: "Japan
can continue military operations on the present scale
for at least five months before using up her 'ready!
foreign exohange resources, and at least twelve months
before exhausting all her foreign exchange resources."
Although Japan is not likely to pursue a war of aggres-
sion up to such point of exhaustion, it still possesses
exohange

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
4
exohange resources which, barring foreign intervention,
are probably sufficient to enable her to obtain the
terms or controls she desires in China.
Gold Resources. Although Japan has exported approxi-
mately $245 million in gold during 1937, the Bank of Japan
has so far maintained intact its gold reserve of $261
million as established at the time of yen devaluation
(August 25). In addition, the gold holdings of the
Government's exchange stabilisation fund are estimated
to be in the neighborhood of $40 million at the end of
December. Gold shipments from this fund to maintain
the present exohange value of the yen are being replen-
1shed in part by Government purchases of newly mined
gold in the Japanese Empire, whose production averaged
about $4 million monthly during 1937 and is expected to
be increased in 1938 under the operation of the recent
gold production law. Strenuous efforts are being made
to expand gold production in Manchukuo (estimated at
$4 1/2 million in 1937) whioh could be used to finance
in part imports for the Kwantung Army.
Bank Balances Abroad. Although Japanese importers
are experiencing increasing difficulty in obtaining bank
or commercial credits abroad, a recent check made by the
Treasury Department indicated that Japanese bank balances
in

=== Page 415 === (confidence 1.00)
5
in New York amounted to $45.2 million as of December 8.
These appear to have been built up largely by recent
gold shipments to this country, and in view of the fact
that during the three months September through November
United States imports from Japan came within $6 1/2
million of balancing exports to that country, a fairly
substantial margin of ready dollar exchange appears to
be available for financing essential excess imports
during the next couple of months.
Foreign Security Holdings. According to the Japan-
ese Ministry of Finance, holdings of foreign government
or corporate securities by Japanese nationals at home
and abroad, as of April 1937, amounted to 389 million
yen (at old par of exchange) or roughly $200 million.
It is not known how iarge a proportion of Chinese
obligations are included in this total, nor what amount
of other foreign securities may have been sold since
that date, but it is probable that something like $75
million in foreign exchange might still be realised
through the liquidation of such assets, and possibly
another $25 million through the gradual selling of out-
standing Japanese foreign currency obligations owned by
Japanese nationals and institutions.
Japan's total foreign exchange resources, in the
form

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
6
form of gold, foreign bank balances and foreign securi-
ties, are estimated to be equivalent to about $475 mil-
lion, which, 1f utilised at the rate of 40 to 50 million
dollars a month, might potentially carry her through the
greater part of 1938, although this would entail out-
right exhaustion of her extremely liquid resources and
virtually complete dissipation of her gold currency
reserves.
Japan's Balance of Payments. Japan was well pre-
pared for the outbreak of hostilities in midsummer
through the building up of large stocks of war and
industrial raw materials by heavy excess imports in the
first half of the year. By the end of August her trade
deficit amounted to ¥ 775 million, compared to ¥ 265
million in the first eight months of 1936. Since Aug-
ust, by drawing on her reserve stocks, by rigidly con-
trolling imports, especially of non-essentials, by
curtailing domestic consumption, and vigorously pushing
export sales, Japan has been able to show an excess of
exports during September-November, thereby reducing her
unfavorable trade balance for the eleven months of 1937
to  650 million. Lower prices for imported raw
materials have also been a factor in Japan's recently
improved trade position. The prospect for ensuing
months

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
7
months is less favorable, owing to the necessity of
replenishing depleted stocks and the difficulties of
maintaining exports in the face of restrictions on
imports of materials entering into manufactures, diver-
sion of labor and capital into war purposes, rising
domestic costs, and anti-Japanese boycott movements
abroad. Moreover, Japan's normally favorable invisible
balance of payments (reported for 1936 as * 233 million,
exclusive of capital movements) is being substantially
curtailed through the diversion of Japanese shipping to
war transport service, disappearance of returns from
direct investments in China and liquidation of holdings
of foreign securities. Despite these adverse develop-
ments and prospects in Japan's international balance of
payments, her exchange resources and control measures
will enable her to carry on for some months unless
economic sanctions are applied against her or foreign
military intervention develops.
Concluding Observations.
Although the early conclusion of a peace with China
would undoubtedly ease the strain on Japan's financial
resources, this pressure does not yet appear to be suf-
ficiently critical, in the absence of foreign economic
or military intervention, to compel an immiment deflec-
tion

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
8
tion of Japanese objectives or efforts in China. The
more serious difficulties confronting Japan are likely
to arise after the termination of active hostilities.
Mr. Anderson is warranted in pointing out towards the
end of his article that the replacement of Japan's
destroyed industrial enterprises in China, the stupen-
dous task of reconstruction in ravaged areas, and the
development of natural resources brought under Japanese
control, will involve demands for capital which cannot
be met from Japan's own depleted and debt-burdened
resources. It is this dependence on foreign financial
participation which appears to offer the prospect of
settlement on terms which may minimise Chinese sabotage
and leave the door sufficiently open to attract foreign
capital. Such consummation is likely to be delayed,
however, so long as military considerations remein
paramount in Japan and it is not dictated by Japan's
immediate financial position.
EA:HSP:EB
H

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.88)
503 Huron St.,
894.
INTERNAIUNAL ECU AFFAIRS
Nigitear Mr. Hull
LJAN 22 1938
mby asTe de on the folloing
5
5
qared fron a Rmall retail luusiness (noom defunct)me
finrested w ameican arnd Oanadiang
fifty per cent.
norm, mir Hull, me are almost Roeitin re millloze
JAN 2 4 1936
T
/MR

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.86)
erery dvelan me hare in those bonds and Vam wiiting
894.51/53
asking you to advise wo, but me really donitkn
mhat mll harpen to is if dagan should repuchate he.
ablrgations.
52
Sion Washnston mlio the Render is.
again ny grateful thanlts fos yourcousteay Ueytiney
Peare C. day
(nis. arthur Jay)
JAN 2 4 1932
MR

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.91)
Janvary
24 1988
Dear Mrs. Jay:
I have received your letter of January 1l, in which
you ask for an expression of opinion as to whether you
should sell Japanese Oriental Development bonds which
you hold.
89
It is not regarded as proper for offioials of this
4
Government to advise any person to buy or sell any fox-
5
eigm security or to express an opinion on the future
5
valve of such a seourity for the guidance of investors.
3
7
You can no doubt ascertain the present value of the bonds
you held from published market quotations or by inquir
ing of a bank or a house dealing in such securities.
You might be able to obtain some information regaré-
lag economio and financial conditions in Japan by address-
ang an inquiry to the Department of Coumeree, Washingten,
D. G., bat it is not believed that any Departmemt would
M#
vemtmve to give you an opinion such as you request, You
wall me deubs appreciate the reaseme for this attitade.
.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.92)
-2
which is taken without prejudice to any security or to
the oredit standing of any government or other issuer
of bonds.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Herbert Feis,
Adviser on International
Economio Affairs.
A true dopy of
the siyhed origt-
nal
H
JAN 24 1938
EA:FL:DJW
1-22
FE
gub
2

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
Gusid
26 1988
235 E. 49th St., New York City,
anuary
an16,1938.
eh
The Hon. Cordell Hull,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
1938 JAN 17 AM 10 31
Washington, D.C.,
Dear Secretary Hull:
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
A column just read Aincthe New York Times impels me to write to
you. I am an American missionary, on furlough from China, whence I returned
last February. At that time, all seemed at peace.
Day before yesterday I received a letter written by a doctor of
our mission. He is an honor graduate from Yale, a missionary of many years'
experience in China as physician and surgeon, evangelist, and teacher, as wel
as statesman. Enclosed is a copy of this letter, which I am sharing with you
without his consent, and am therefore withholding his name, although you may hav
it if needed. When you read this letter, you will realize better than ever what
conditions obtain there, and are likely to be in the rest of the world, if
things go on as they are now. You will know also why I make the request that
follows innthis letter:
5
The Times says that Japan is asking for a credit of $50,000,00
with which to develop Manchukuoh with machinery bought on this credit. American
financiers should by all means refuse to grant this credit; because,
1. Money already in Japan will be released by this loan to be invested in materi
als used to prosecute the war with China. By all means we want as a nation
and as individuals to avoid helping continue this war.
2. Japan's word is not to be trusted. The $50,0o0,0o0 may in some way itself
be used in whole or in part for war materials.
3. Manchukuoh does not rightfully belong to Japan; the province would rather go
undeveloped than have it done by Japan; and it will be rightfully developed
and will co-operate willingly in its development when it is done by China and
its own people. Unless so done, it will delay such development as much as
/MR
possible.
C2
4. Japan does not want this money at this time, I dare say, to "develop Man-
chukuoh as we would wish to see it done; Japan is too busy with er war to
carry on the works of peace at present.
5. America cannot afford, from any angle, to help Japan against China in an
unrighteous war; whether we consider justice, or American investments in
China, or future prospects of peace, or simply the question of what is right
always the main issue,
That loan should be refused!
If it be said that "To refuse will be considered an unfriendly act," I
should answer:
1. America, because of her situation geographically and otherwise, need fear
outbreak of war against her less than any other country one can name.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
country must do something to change the present situation, or an even
eater wrong to China, and the world, an even more serious international
ituation, is before us.
If nothing is done to stop this war, America is bound to be drawn into war
in the end; for, sooner or later, war will spread.
+. Not every peopla and nation must fear Japan; fear of injustice and sin and
evil must be greater. People are expecting greater things of America in
this Eastern situation than we have seen thus far, and we must not continue
to disappoint them!
I ask you please to use every means in your power to keep our busi-
ness men from selling out our ideals and our hopes for $50,000,000.
Respectfully yours,
May Bel hompson.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
ent President Roosevelt.)
consider welfare of informant and
regard this information as confidential.  , Nov. 25, 1937.
Friends and Sharers in the work oft the Kingdom over here,
From present appearances it may not be
long before we shall not be able to write freely, and for that reason a gen
letter is soon agein going out to you to add a few matters of the situatio
in China, and of how it looks to us. Many people here are perfectly convino
that the conquest of China is only a kind of first step tpward the realizat
of the ambitions of Japan. The man whom I believe to be the best informed i
our city, a Britisher, and a friend of many Chinese officials said without
the slightest hesitation that the next move after taking China would be th
Philippines, Borneo, and move down toward Australia.
That the Japanese have been working up an anti-American sentiment in their
own land, 1s only too certain, and also that they in their language have
changed the mame for"America" They usedto call it by a name which means
"the beautiful country". Now they call it by a name which means "the rice
country", because they mean to eat it up like rice.
Please do not think that I coneern myself to any great extent with politio
matters. I have far too much to do in the medical and evangelistic work to
indulge in that, but it does seem to me that America ought to know what is
the prevailing sentiment out here.
By the time this letter reaches you, things will have changed vastly from
what they are to-day. At present the Japanese say that they want nothing be
yond the capital in Nanking, which means that this part of the world west 
it would not be invaded. At all events it would seem wise if they did stop
at Nanking for e while, that is, for their own good. The most recent news
which comes to us is that of the bombing of geveral cities between Shanghai
and Nank ing. Newspaper reports and the word of the people who have been 1n
few of these places bear evidence of the appalling loss of life among the o
lian population at Soochow. A foreign newspaper says that the planes which
dropped 7oo bombs on that beautiful and very populous city, went along overn
as one would sow a field of wheat, repeatine their flights in parallel col-
umns, and then they made parallelx lines at richt angles to these. A plao
called Chanchow on the railroad neurer to Nanking than oochow is, was also
bombed very terribly. A servant who was talking about it to one of the mis
sionaries staying at present in Fiukiang, was pitifully undone nervously by
the experience. This servant said that the place was bombed by 1oo Japanese
planes. Another city which is something of an industrial center, called Wus
is reported as very badly damaged or de troyed. I can't help wondering wheth
the civilized world is going to se ttle down peacefully to accept this sort o
thing with regard to civilian populations. That night when our city was bo
ed, we had warning quite a while before planes came. I was bracing my nerve
for the possible bombing which might be coming, but when it began, it was
something of a psychic shock, not alone, by any means, because of the crashe
involved, but to actually realize that people would rain missles of death on
a practically defenseless people and one that was so innocent into the barga
Please notice that I am not telling you the most incradibly awful stories wit
regard to the areas that have already been occupied by the Japanese. Some o
these things are perfectly fiendish, and I think are no doubt, in part at
least, propaganda. But I do want you to realize the dreadfulness of whole-
sale attacks upon cities. It is nothing but a return to barbarism of centu
bies ago. And it is a very vital question as to just what the civilized
world is going to do about it. Only a few days ago a letter came from a
friend in New York State referring to conditions here in China, and obviously

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.92)
2.
they were as remote from himself and his loved ones as if it
urbance on Mars or Arcturus. Permit me to say again that it is
universal opinion out here that there won't be any place that wi
after a while.
a fire breeks out in a city or in the counory, there is the most ingen
and commendable speed employed in gettin the fire out. To my mind thi
ems like a fire in the world which ought to  L ait with in timg for suck
things certainly can sproad. Th two taings which upan has luched in their
aream of conquest heve been raw material nl  poer these two lie pefor
them in this unusual land of ohina. It i a perfeet trea urehous of raw mat
rial. To suggest only on item, every on of theghte an provinces has coal
in it. Man power, of course, is unlinsd, aad c oo inoressed nto service
in a way by which te wr teh i inhabit nt of  ne u uon have been ariven in
military service in t is pre nt eof iet.  i t so-called poverty of
China, there is bot actal ? ot ti1t. i 1 par f this great
land.
The wholesale bomoin o citles  tue a se hs srioe us punis
ment" which is porhaps el ver p moto lo  wio o or part; for
people who heur about uniut i ti i
isa just retr
bution for someroal s tl t , is known on
to the people whe have live a in t is land ttnt h n meo I mi lar with the
demands and ressin or thn ir er.
one Demands of Japan on hine vere forulat a por  t ity years ago an
were aimed at takin away ohina' sorrolsn ri ts and l r opportunitie
progress and development. It certainly ee terribl tha t natione that
in advance of th: othera do not seml for th ir l tion  ro rese as sool
ety does, as in the caste of chi iren or tho w, hav nos  eury advanta
In the case of China and Jupan, there is not cnty no  sir t hel China foi
ward on the part of Tuun, but a up r ut a terhin ui  t de troy the pro-
gress already made, ani t chec) uns at onct ur a euutr t hs b en so
ready for all prorros and full of cornd 1 it  dur: t se ast de
ades. on wholly reliabl inforti, it n sa ti   i  r  of  pan
recently acguired poseeesiens vhicn was pahin pro res i its ileat on, or
least had schoole of hi  r rei, h s t -la oniy lover ri r sehools.
with regard to institutions of hi her I arnin si.e th  mes: invasion
began, about four montus ago, tlere have beon d sbroye? no less than twentys
colleges or institation of ell e liv lnt (thnt i, o hi school
grade.) One of the bi foroign dai lies a a list or ti s in titutions not
long ago. Amone thea were a number sf nedtcal sehools vhese sostruetion seen
particularly pitiful just now, o esus of the reat ne  eaicul care of
severely wounded people.
Naturally as anbassadors for Shrist's Kin ioa, such thin a as I have been tel
ing you, ana in particular the frightrul itmis tt com t us about conqud
ed regions, are mattera about whie w: have littl to say wit or hinese 
friends. We do not vish to foment any hatred. In f et, I have been amazed by
attitude of many of the chinese Ohristians whom I have heard pra ing for Jap
an. Our own little Jean (ado ted) only six years cld, unl whose Little Chine
heart has naturally been torn by vhat she hes picked up, prayed the other nig
something like this,"God, tell the Japanese to s kin? to us.
Treaty
The tragic breakdown of the ine Power Conference certuinly gives one pause.
The Britisher referred to above, who has recently had a conference with China
highest official, expressed it as his opinion that unless there was help
fortheoming from the world's respectable nations, China would go red. That i
that they would be driven to seek the help of their neighbor, Soviet Russia,
and that is not according to the general wish or sentiment of the Chinese.Chi
has been trying to keep sane, and many of you will remember that the general

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
ng Kai-Shek spent several years in the extensive campaigns agair
rde in China.
ina is ready to advance and keep step with the progressof other ra-
of the best type and take her place as one of the peace-loving, educ
-loving and progress-furthering nations of the earth. May God grant t
this possibility may not be thwarted and destroyed at a time when the
world needs the kind of nation that China can readily become.
(Underlining, except in one case, not in the oricinal).

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
January 26 1938
My dear Miss Thompson:
The receipt is aaknowledged of your letter of
Jamuary 16, 1938, enolosing a oopy of a letter of
November 25, 1937, which you have received from a
medisal missionary in China with regard to the situa-
89
tion in that country.
4
Your letter and its enclosure have been read with
5
interest and your thoughtfulness and courtesy in bring-
ing this letter from your mission to our attention are
5
greatly appreciated.
8
The views whieh you express have been given care-
ful eemsideration, and in connection with your comments
with regard to a newspaper artiele to the effeot that
Japan is asking for eredit of $50,000,000 from Amerieam
fimameiers
Mse May Bel Thempsen,
ass Bast Forty-minth Street,
Now York, Now York.
F/FG

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
fimenelers, I may say that the Department is not aware of
any leans or eredits waieh are now beins extended to fapan
by Ameriean banking or commereial interests.
sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
3.23.16.
Marwell M. Hamilton,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
CR √
JAN 26 1938.PM
A true copy of
the signed origi-
nal.
y
EA
m.m.H.
He

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.51/539
711.00112/1
SEE
FORLetter
FROMTreasuryDepartment
(Morgenthau...) DATED....December.18.1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
GPO
REGARDING: Memorandum prepared by Herman Oliphant, General Counsel of the
Treasury, respecting the authorization granted the President under
the amendment of March 9, 1933, to the Trading with the Enemy Act,
and certain powers granted him in case of a "national emergenoy"
affecting the Oriental situation.
wth
53

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE F E  
JAN 8- 1938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
January 5, 1938.
Mr. Secretary:
arrangements or flotations by the Japanese authorities
or Japanese interests have arisen, since the Far Eastern
894.51/540
situation has developed. You will remember in particular
that the British Ambassador in Tokyo queried Ambassador
Grew as to what the attitude of the American Government
would be to such activities; you will remember also that
it was suggested at Brussels that loan and investment
arrangements should be discouraged.
In that connection you will find of interest the
attached account of the British Government policy towards
credits to Japan, as indicated by discussion in the House
of Commons.
H.F.
JAN
894.51
F/MR
RECE
JAN 14 1938
JAN 18 1938
DIVISION
FILED
EA: HF:LWW

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
JAN 1 0 1938
ADVISER ON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
JAN141938
January 4, 1937.
DIVISION OF
894.51
TO JAPAN.
In reply to a question in the House of Commons
December 14, 1937, the Chancellor of the Exchequer de-
fined the British Government's policy by referring to a
894.51/540
statement made by Prime Minister Baldwin on June 23, 1936,
concerning loans to Italy.
Following is an excerpt from Parliamentary Debates,
House of Commons, December 14, 1937, Columns 981-982:
"Mr. A. Henderson asked the Chancellor of the
Exchequer whether he will give an assurance that it
is the intention of His Majesty's Government to re-
fuse to permit the raising of loans in this country
by any country or its nationals committing an act of
aggression against a member of the League of Nations;
and whether such embargo will apply to Japan?
"Sir J. Simon:: So far as I am aware, no ques-
tion arises at the present time of the issue of
loans in this country by any foreign Government which
could be regarded as covered by the terms of the
hon. Member's question, or by its nationals, and ac-
cordingly the question of permitting such loans does
not arise.
F/MR
"Mr. Henderson: In the event of any application
being received from Japan, will His Majesty's Govern-
ment bear in mind the undesirability of allowing
Japan to finance her war in China by advances from
this country?
"Sir J. Simon: On the general policy, if the
hon. Member will refer to the statement made by the
then

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
then Prime Minister on 23rd June, 1936, he will
see what principle governs the attitude of the
Government.
"Mr. De la Bère: Does not the foreign lend-
ing system of this country require drastic over-
hauling?
"Mr. Thorne: Will this country and America
work together on this question?"
In a debate in the House of Commons June 23, 1936, on
the question of the removal of sanctions against Italy,
Mr. Attlee, speaking for the Opposition, said in part
(Column 1613):
"What is the policy now to be with regard to
Abyssinia? Now the Abyssinians have been conquered
is it to be said that there is nothing to be done
for them at all? Do you say that they are to be
handed over and Italy can do what she likes? What
is to be done with regard to Italy? What is the
policy towards Italy? Is she to be welcomed back
into the League? Is she to be supplied with money
by the City of London? Is she to be welcomed back
so as to re-form the Stresa front?"
Speaking further for the Opposition, Sir A. Sinclair
said in part (Column 1648):
"I ask, therefore, what is the Government's
policy, and I ask the Secretary of State or the
Prime Minister to tell me definitely and specifically
what are the answers to these questions? Will they,
in the first place, recognise the Italian Empire in
Ethiopia?..
Then does the Government propose to obtain any safe-
guard for the treatment of the Abyssinians - any
safeguard, for instance, in regard to the alienation
of land and, more important still, the militarisa-
tion of the natives? Will the Government insist on
any

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
any safeguards against the building up of a great
black army? Will they insist upon the open door
for the trade of other nations in Abyssinia?
Finally, what is their policy going to be about
loans? It is not enough to say, as the Financial
Secretary to the Treasury said yesterday, although
it was a proper answer to the question he was asked,
that the Government is not going to lend money. I
want to know if the Government is going to prevent
loans being made to Italy by private or any other
interests. There ought to be a ban on foreign lend-
ing of all kinds to all natións which are at variance
with the League of Nations."
In his reply, the Prime Minister said in part (Columns
1725-6):
"There was another question, an important one to
which a short answer was given in the House, but here
again I have prepared a reasoned reply, as I think
that it is important that the House should know
exactly what the situation is, and that is on the
question of making loans to Italy. Do we propose to
make loans to Italy? The Government have no power to
lend money to Italy, and they have no intention of
seeking such power. Moreover, any proposals which
involved the issue of securities in this country on
behalf of Italy would, in the first instance, be
considered by the Foreign Transactions Advisory Com-
mittee, whose recommendations are reviewed by the
Chancellor of the Exchequer. My right hon. Friend
would not be disposed to consent to any relaxation
of the restrictions on the issue of foreign loans in
the case of Italy in the present circumstances.
Applicants for export credits for Italy as for any
other country will be dealt with by the Export
Credits Advisory Committee solely on commercial grounds,
with a view to supporting United Kingdom exporters,
but not applications which relate to munitions."
"As regards private credits to Italy, the Govern-
ment are anxious that these should not be afforded
except to the limited extent they may be required
for purely commercial purposes."
In despatch No. 2309, June 30, 1936, comment on this
statement

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.94)
-4
statement by the Prime Minister, the American Embassy
at London pointed to the possibility that Italy might ob-
tain financial assistance in the United States by reselling
some 2o0 millions of Italian dollar securities which the
Italian Government had taken over from Italian owners, and
remarked that this would presumably not contravene the
terms of the Johnson Act.
EA:F LIVESEY:DJW
1

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.92)
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, LITERATURE, AND THE ARTS
RLOETYLD
1938 N I8 AM 10 34
EPARTMENT OF POLÍTICAL SCIENCE
LIVISION OF
ave'd Jan.19-'38
COMMUNICITIONS
AND HL
A file
Mr. Maxwell M. .Hamilton
Department of State
1anar 21 1938
Washington, D. C.
894.51/541
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Can you tell me whether or not any loans have
been made by American financial institutions to either of
the contending perties in the Sino-Japanese controversy?
If no actual loans have been made, can you tell whether
or not financial assistance in the form of credits or
otherwise has been made available by Americen financial
institutions to either party?
Assuring you of my appreciation of your attention
to these inquiries, I am
nN 1938
844.51
FILED
nok
Sincerely youre,
Harsed S. Quigles
993.51
Harold S. Quigley
Jl.D.
hL.D.
F/ MR
HSQ:HL

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.93)
Janvary 21 1938
My dear Dr. Quigley:
I have reseived your letter of recent date request-
ing information as to whether or not loans have been made
or financial assistance tendered in the form of oredits
894.51/54
or otherwise by American finanoial institutions to either
of the contending parties in the Sino-Japanese contro-
versy.
The Department is not aware of any loans whioh have
41
been mede or of any credits or other finanoiel assistance
whieh has been ertended sinee the beginning of the Sino-
Japamese eonrliet to either China or Japan by American
fimamcial institutions. Short-term commereial credits ed-
vaneed against merehandise, including gold, in transit are
of sourse exeepted from this statement.
Sineerely yours,
109
y.m.N.
Maxwell M. Eamiltes
chief
JAN 21 19302
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
F/FG
Jnd
aT1/10/30

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.90)
Gensd
UTZMAN
BRANCH
y 25 1988
AND
Division or
FAR EASTERH AFLAIHS
DEPAPTMENT
1938
1938 JAN 1 DM 3 12
of State
4-51
DIVIS 4 OF
COMMUNIONS
AND REOURDS
0r
894.51/542
JAN 2 6 1938
PILED
F/FG
八
ns
seen

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.66)
206
ci
tr
X
on der
di

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.93)
anary 25 1988
bto
My dear Mr. Deutsman:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of
January 18, 1938, relating 1n part to reports to the
894.51/542
offect that Japan is seeking a loan in the United
States.
The views expressed in your letter have received
eareful consideration and the spirit which prompted you
to bring them to the Department's attention is appreci-
ated. The Department is not aware of any loans which
are now being made to Japan by American banking or com-
mareial interests.
sinserely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
F/MR
m.m. 1A.
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affaire
Lamremee F. Deutmen,
25 1938.PM
Long Laland, Bow York.
EA
A true capy of
the signed 
WF
nel.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
JMJ
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
Hankow via N. R.
GPO
REc'a I p.m. Telegram to Hanlaw
Jan. 21,1438
Secretary of StatE,
ADVISER
MR. HOR BECK
JAN 211938
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
Washington.
894.51
Depariment of Stalt
45, January 20, 3 p.m.
I havE just received a visit from Mr. K. I. Chung,
chairman of thE PEoplE's ForEign REsident Association,Mr.
894.51/543
Pan Li Shan, secretary of thE ChinesE Students Federation,
and Miss Chi Yi Chen of thE FEderation of thE ChinEsE Women's
organizations, who presented a lEtter dated yEsterday
referring to a story published in thE NE" YORK TIMES to thE
EffEct that Mr. T. J. "atson of thE AmErican sEction of thE
International Chamber of CommErcE had bEEn approachEd by
JapanEsE industrial interests with a viEw to Establishing a
credit of 50 million dollars in thE UnitEd States for thE
purchasE of a plant for thE Manchurian heavy industry
company. This lEtter which bears signaturE of abovE named
JAN 22 1938
and in addition of thE chairman of thE ChinEsE ChambEr of
CommercE of Hankow, Hankov: Bankers Association, all-China
SEamen's Union and thE ChinEsE LEaguE of Nations Union,
ExprEssEs thE hopE that thE Establishment of such a crEdit
F/FG
for such purposE will in view of thE functions of hEavy
industry in war, bE discouragEd.
JOHNSON
CSB

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
JAN
New York Times
1938
WATSON COMMENTS
ON JAPANESE REPORT
Head of International Chamber
Says He Is Not Interested in
Credits for Parchases
Thomas J. Watson, president of
the International Business Machines
Corporation and president of the
International Chamber of Com-
merce, said yesterday that he was
not interested in arranging credits
in this country for the purchase by
the Japanese of American machin-
ery. It became known last week
that Japanese interests had been
making overtures in the United
States for credits aggregating $50,-
000,000 with which to purchase ma-
chinery for developing and expand-
ing the heavy industries of Man-
chukuo.
"Neither my own company nor
the International Chamber of Com-
merce would entertain any such
proposals, even if formally offered,
and neither would either organiza-
tion participate in any efforts to
secure such credits, in any form or
shape," Mr. Watson said.
"The International Chamber of
Commerce is not interesting in
financing for any nation," he add-
ed. "This organization is only in-
terested in developing friendly trade
relations between nations of the
world and in fostering business
principles of the highest order. The
International Chamber provides a
ready means for the exchange of
views of the business leaders of the
world."

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
AONOONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
Naval Rodio
1938 JAN 21 PM 6 18
January 21, 1938.
7m
DS F
AMEMBASSY,
COMCATIONS
ADS
HANKOW (CHINA).
30
Your 45, January 20, 3 p.m.
In the New York Times or January 19 Mr. Thomas J.
Watson, President of thé International Business Machines
Corporation and President of the International Chamber
894.51/5
of Commerce, was quoted as follows:
QUOTE. Neither my own oompany nor the International
Chamber of Commerce would entertain any such proposals,
oven if formally offered, and neither would either organ-
43
ization participate in any efforts to secure suoh credits,
in any form or shape. The International Chamber of Com-
merce is not interested in finanoing for any nation.
This organization is only interested in developing friendly
trade relations between nations of the world and in fos-
tering business principles or the highest order. END
QUOTE.
R
Huwe
FE 994.51/543
PAN
w.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.96)
1
JHS
JR
GRAY
Loame
Hankow via N. R.
Dated January 20, 1938
Rec'd l p.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
45, January 20, 3 p.m.
I havE just received a visit from Mr. K. I. Chung,
chairman of thE PEoplE's ForEign Residunt Association, Mr.
Pan Li Shan, sEcretary of thE ChinEsE Students FEderation,
and Miss Chi Yi ChEn of thE FEdEration of thE ChinEsE omen's
organizations, vhe presented a letter dated yEsterday
rEfErring to a story published in thE NEY YORK TIMES to thE
EffEct that Mr. T. J. 'atson of thE AmErican sEction of thE
International Chamber of CommercE had bEEn approached by
JapanesE industrial interests with a viEw to Establishing a
credit of 50 million dollars in the United States for thE
purchasE of a plant for thE Manchurian hEavy industry
company. This letter which bears signaturE of abovE named
and in addition of tht chairm n of thE ChinEsE Chamber of
CommercE of Hankow, Hankow Bankers Association, all-China
SEamEn's Union and thE ChinEsE LEaguE of Nations Union,
ExprEssEs thE hopE that thE Establishment of such a crEdit
for such purposE will in view of thE functions of hEavy
industry in war, bE discouraged.
JOHNSON
CSB

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
JHS
M
Loaus
TELEGRAM SENT
LMS
GRAY
January 21, 1938
7 p. m.
AMEMBASSY
HANKOW (CHINA) via N. R.
30.
Your 45, January 20, 3 p. m.
In thE NEw York Times of January 19 Mr. Thomas J.
Watson, PresidEnt of thE IntErnational BusinEss Machines
Corporation and PrEsident of thE IntErnational Chamber
of CommercE, was quoted as follows:
QUOTE. NEither my own company nor thE IntErnational
Chamber of CommErcE would. Entertain any such proposals,
Even if formally offered, and nEither would Either organ-
ization participatE in any Efforts to sEcurE such credits,
in any form or shapE. ThE IntErnational Chamber of Com-
mErcE is not interEsted in finan ing for any nation. This
organization is only interested in dEvEloping friendly
tradE rElations bEtwEEn nations of thE world and in fos-
tering business principles of thE highEst order. END
QUOTE.
HULL
(SKH)
FE:JMJ:NNPA/H
FE 894.51/543

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
AUTMENT OF STATE
OF
Memorandum of Conversation
Z
71938
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFHLRS
1938N1
06
DATE: January 11, 1938.
MENI 011
DIVISION OF
COMMINICITIONS
AND RE CCS
Mr. Paul Scheffer, Correspondent of the Berliner Tageblatt,
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Hamilton.
COPIES
Division of
小
MAR EASTERN AFAIRS
Asntel
JAN 1
894.5
1-1408
Mr. Paul Soheffer called. During the course of the
onsuing conversation Mr. Scheffer said that Japan had
postponed payment to Germany of some one hundred million
544
marks due Germany for industrial machinery which had been
supplied. He said that Germany was making considerable
sales to China, including arms and munitions, and he
conjeotured that possibly the Japanese Government, because
of its displeasure at German sales to China, was postponing
payment by Japan to Germany of sums owed to Germany.
—3.3.16.
AN5  93
usrrla
