894.911 Public Press., Japan, Newspapers., March 13, 1940 - January 10, 1941 (File 1239)
ID: 894.911-1239   Pages: 213   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.911-public-press-japan-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
7
REVEIVOREIGN SERVICE
MR. HC
COF THE
APD
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
8 248
SIAIE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 13, 1940
No. 4585.
SUBJECT:
INFORATICN WITH REGARD TO THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
PRESS IN TOKYO.
Confidential
C
VileB
tile
A
894.911/66
894.911
No
1
V
For
ONI MID
incrafidence
COPIES SENT TO
O.NJ. AND M.I.D.
AUG 21940
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
mc
Washington.
10/25/40
Sir:
793.94/15770
With reference to the Embassy's despatch no. 4533,
Fobruary 27, 1940, enclosing a clipping from The Japan
Times, reporting the text of a radio broadcast to America
by Mr. Toshi Go, managing director and editor of that news-
OCF
paper, I have the honor to inform the Department, as of
possible

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
possible interest, of recent reports from a reliable
source, confirmatory of previous rumors that The Japan
Times, one of Tokyo's two leading English-language
dailies, is controlled and probably subsidized, by the
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Embassy's
source of information is an American journalist, former-
ly employed as a United Press correspondent in Tokyo and
now serving as staff writer for a large daily newspaper
abroad and for another foreign press service. During his
two years' stay in Tokyo this journalist was on the staff
of two semi-official Japanese publications and at that
time became well acquainted with Mr. Go.
Mr. Go took charge of The Times on January 10, 1940,
at which time both his appointment and the "resignation"
of his predecessor, Dr. Hitoshi Ashida, were announced by
The Times. The change in administration of this paper is
of interest for several reasons: 1. Mr. Go has long been
1/
identified, according to the enclosed article from The Japan
Times of January 10, 1940, "with activities in the field of
international affairs," and "has won wide circles of friends
in many foreign countries." 2. Since he has taken over his
new position The Times has apparently endeavored to improve
 relations between Japan and America by publishing editorials
and news articles attempting, by laying particular emphasis
on angles deemed likely to appeal to the Amerioan point of
view, to justify the "New Order in East Asia." 3. The Times
is making a conscientious effort to improve its news staff
and is obviously concentrating upon hiring American newspaper-
men, -- paying them salaries nearly l00 per cent higher, in
some instances, than it has previously been known to pay
foreigners. (One American joined the staff several months
before

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
possible interest, of recent reports from a reliable
source, confirmatory of previous rumors that The Japan
Times, one of Tokyo's two leading English-language
dailies, is controlled and probably subsidized, by the
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Embassy's
source of information is an American journalist, former-
ly employed as a United Press correspondent in Tokyo and
now serving as staff writer for a large daily newspaper
abroad and for another foreign press service. During his
two years' stay in Tokyo this journalist was on the staff
of two semi-official Japanese publications and at that
time became well acquainted with Mr. Go.
Mr. Go took charge of The Times on January 10, 1940,
at which time both his appointment and the "resignation"
of his predecessor, Dr. Hitoshi Ashida, were announced by
The Times. The change in administration of this paper is
of interest for several reasons: 1. Mr. Go has long been
1/
identified, according to the enclosed article from The Japan
Times of January 10, 1940, "with activities in the field of
international affairs," and "has won wide circles of friends
in many foreign countries." 2. Since he has taken over his
new position The Times has apparently endeavored to improve
relations between Japan and America by publishing editorials
and news articles attempting, by laying particular emphasis
on angles deemed likely to appeal to the American point of
view, to justify the "New Order in East Asia." 3. The Times
is making a conscientious effort to improve its news staff
and is obviously concentrating upon hiring American newspaper-
men, -- paying them salaries nearly l00 per cent higher, in
some instances, than it has previously been known to pay
foreigners. (One American joined the staff several months
before

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
before Mr. Go's appointment and, since Mr. Go's incumbency,
a Salt Lake City newspaperman has started work for The
Times, and a Chicago newspaperman is reported as having
been engaged, -- both at initial salaries of from Yen 400
to Yen 450, -- nearly double the "top" salary for foreign-
ers hitherto paid by The Times).
According to our informant, the Foreign Office has been
subsidizing The Times to the extent of at least Yen 7,oo0
a month. One source of dissatisfaction with former editors
of the paper, -- it is asserted, -- has been that they
"hired men cheaply and pocketed the difference between their
salaries and The Times subsidy." Mr. Go remarked with sat-
isfaction to the Embassy's informant that he had "already
begun to clean house."
It may be noted that Mr. Go has had no previous news-
paper experience but had served in an official or semi-
official capacity for many years: as a member of the staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce; in the personnel
of the Japanese delegation to the Versailles Peace Conference;
as manager of the New York and Shanghai offices of the South
Manchuria Railway Company and, -- more recently, -- as Japa-
nese Commissioner to the New York World's Fair.
Presidents and editors are said to be assigned by the
Foreign Office to The Japan Times very much in the manner
that a Japanese diplomat would be transferred from one post
to another.
Reports stronger than rumor have been ciroulated among
some of the foreign correspondents and American newspapermen
in Tokyo indicating that the Foreign Office has made several
attempts to buy The Japan Advertiser (which is owned by two
Amoricans,

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Americans, Benjamin Fleisher and his son Wilfrid). I am
informed in strict confidence that this is not literally
true, although overtures lookin to the purchase of the
paper have been received from The Asahi Shimbun, presumably
with a view to combining it with the English edition of
that paper. The offers have not been seriously entertained,
owing to the improbability that any purchase of the paper
by Japanese interests would permit the owners to convert
the purchase price into foreign currency.
In this connection, it is of interest to note that
the editor of the paper has confidentially informed the
Embassy that over a year ago offers were received from
German sources, but not from the Embassy here, for the
purchase of The Advertiser at a half-million dollars, pay-
able in New York, but that the present owners of The Adver-
tiser were unwilling to see the paper converted to German
uses. An offer was also made recently by the British Em-
bassy to acquire a forty-nine per cent interest in The Ad-
vertiser with a view to converting it into a joint Anglo-
American enterprise. This was likewise not viewed with
favor by the owners, for a number of reasons. One was the
possible divergence of Anglo-American policy in the Far
East.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ copy of newspaper article as stated.
891
WG:wg
RA1
Original and 3 copies to Department

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 4585dated Mar. 13, 1940
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
(Copy of an article from the Japan Times of January 10,
1940.)
ASHIDA RESIGNS AS PRESIDENT, EDITOR OF TIMES
Toshi Go Named Successor; Retiring
Chief to Devote Time to
Party Duties
Dr. Hitoshi Ashida, President and Editor of The
Japan Times, tendered his resignation today. He has
held the position since January, 1933. During his ten-
ure of office, except when he went abroad in l937 to pro-
mote friendly relations, he was actively engaged in the
development of the enterprise with which he was associa-
ted and at the same time employed himself as an able
spokesman on international affairs, his views commanding
respectful audience abroad.
Dr. Ashida, after his retirement from journalism ex-
pects to give more time to his work in the political field.
He is at presont Chairman of the Political Affairs Investi-
gation Committee of the Seiyukai Party (the orthodor group).
It is largely in view of the growing amount of time and
attention that his party duty will claim that he has found
it necessary to withdraw from his duties on The Japan Times.
His position will be taken up by Toshi Go as Managing
Director and Editor of The Japan Times. The name of Toshi
Go hardly needs introduotion to foreign residents in this
country. He has long been identified with activities in
the

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the field of international affairs. Also, through his
wide range service abroad he has won wide circles of
friends in many foreign countries.
Mr. Go entered on his public career in the service
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce. In the
early part of his official career he began to take part
in internati nal affairs. In l9l9 he went to the Peace
Conference at Versailles. He was later a participant in
international labor and other conferences abroad. After
joining the South Manchuria Railway Company he was for
years in charge of its New York and Shanghai offices.
Last year Mr. Go went to New York as Japanese Com-
missioner to the World's Fair, where he stayed for some
eight months rendering valuable contributions toward the
success of the whole undertaking. His attention during
his stay in that country was also given toward improvement
of relations between the United States and Japan, although
serving in a private capacity. It should be added that Mr.
Go has for years been taking a deep interest in Pacific
affairs and relations. He takes up his new duties with a
wealth of experience in these fields which must necessarily
play a part of increasing importance in decision of world
issues that are most likely to be raised in this part of
the world.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CK
Tokyo
This tElEgram must bE
closEly paraphrcsEd bE-
DatEd
May 16, 1940
forE bcing corurunicted
FROM
to anyonE.(Br)
REc d 2:30 a.m.
1OFC
TORMATION
SEcretary of State
S
MAY 201940
Vashington
WA
348.May 16, 10 bom.
STRICPLY CONFIDENTIAL
894.911/67
The folloving information concerning thE present
status of nEgotiations for thE disposal of thE JAPAN
ADVETISER has bEen imparted to mE in confidencE by Mr.
Wilfrid FlEischer.
OnE. Hr B. F. FlEi scher, ouner and Editor, has for
SomE timE dEsirEd to disposE of thE ADVERTISER and to
return to thE United States. An ofEr to purchasE by the
German Embassy vas declined. A proposal by the British
FILEL
Embassy for joint management vas also declined. Later
=Mr.Toshi Go
a JapanEsE group hEaded by lir. Toshigo, Editor of the
JAPAN TIliES, madE a provisional offer and rEquEstEd a
counter proposition fron Tir Fleischer The provisional
JapanesE offer vas approximately onE half of Mr. Fleischer' s
pricE of 400,000. This situation was imparted to the
British mbassador vho consulted his Government vith regard
to possiblE purchasE but the reply vas unsatisfactory and
the

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
-2#345, Ilay 16, 10 pom. from Tokyo,
thE idec of British purchasE vas discarded. ir. FlEischer
is now considering advancing a counter proposition to Mr
Toshigo.
= Mr. Go
Two. It is understood that Mr. Toshigo is Employed
by thE JapanesE Government and desires to buy thE ADVERTISER
on behalf of the govErnment. Mr. Toshigo told Mr. Fleischer
that the Government vould not look favorably on the sale
of t hE DVERTISER to any third party particularly the
British, and in case of such sale measures would be taken
to render impractical thE publication of thE paper by
that party. Mr. Vilfrid Fleischer realizes that certain
Elements in Japan vish to havE thE ADVERTISER suppressed
by tactics of petty interference but the Government
appreciates the fact that the paper is being conducted in
a punctilious manner and lir. Fleischer believes that so
long as his father remains the ovmer and editor no (repeat
no) steps vill bE taken by thE Government to aoquire
possession Except by nutual agreement.
GREW
EMB

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
ressr is inorht  the
sel t. to te JarA TI: ES. fhe
rice a reee won er tae s 1e is $100,000.
894.911/
jb
68
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel t4. 4 pm
(Deepatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated ...Sent 12...1940
To
Japan.(Grew)
File No.  SEE 894.918/34

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
October 14, 1940.
We should, I think, keep in mind
various of the facts connected with the
sale of the Japan Advertiser as reported
in this telegram: the fact that the sale
was made in the presence of threats,
that the price paid was a price named by
the Japanese with the backing of an
ultimatum, and that Mr. Fleisher was
told (by Mr. Go) "that a strong faction
in the Foreign Office wished to confiscate
the Advertiser without payment."
SKH
061151940
MR. WE
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.94)
EE
e1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DFB
Tokyo
This telegram must bE
closEly paraphrasEdbE=
Dated October 10, 1940
to any onε. (Br)
REc'd 11:15 a.m.
OC
Washington.
6
965, OctobEr 10, 6 p.m.
894.9/8/34
Our paragraph two, 824,
SEptembEr 12, 4 pom.
8
Mr. B. W. Fleisher, publisher and Editor of the
94.911769
JAPAN ADVERTISER, this afternoon signed an agrEEment
to sell thE ADVERTISER to thE JAPAN TIMES for $1OO,OoO
payablE immediately in New York, FlEisher undertaking
to pay thE customary bonuses to his JapanEsE staff
amounting to 50,000 yEn or approximately $12,000.
894.911
ThE ADVERTISER will bE transferred to Mr. Toshi Go,
Editor of thE JAPAN TIMES tomorrow at 3 p.m. ThE
FlEishers, father and son, Expect to lEav& Japan for
thE United States shortly as wEll as sEven out of the
ten American members of their staff. ThreE Americans
Expect to remain under the new management. The trans-
action is to bE announced on Saturday as a friendly
OCT181940
salE.
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL.
ThE nEgotiations for thE salE of thE ADVERTISER
B
havE bEEn Extremely unpleasant and in thE end they
COME

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
DFB -2- 965, OctobEr 10, 6 p.m., from Tokyo
camE to virtual confiscation accompanied by thE threat
that unless Mr. FlEisher signed thE agrEment today,
no further opportunity for a salE would bE offered
and "swift mEasures" would bE taken to render thE
continuancE of thE pap Er impossiblE.
(END SECTION ONE)
GREW
TFV

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EG
Tokyo
This mEssagE must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
FROM
Dated October 10, 1940
forE bEing communicated
to anyonE. (Br)
REc'd 10:30 a.m.
SEcretary of StatE,
Washington.
965, OctobEr 10, 6 p.m. (SECTION TWO)
Mr. FlEisher informs mE that somE timE ago hE
was offErEd 5OO,OOO for thE ADVERTISER by thE GErman
Embassy which hE refused on patriotic grounds.
I offered to discuss thE matter with thE Foreign
Minister on thE ground that a long Established AmErican
interest was tsing subjected to virtual confiscation
but Fleisher dEcided not to avail himself of my proffered
intervention. Mr. Matsuoka, when appealed to pErsonally
by Mr. Fleisher, succeeded in arranging for thE total sum
of $100,000 to bE paid immEdiatEly instead of paymEnt of
50% down and thE balancE over a pEriod of years accord-
ing to Mr. Go's proposal.
Mr. Go, in presenting his ultimatum today, told
Mr. Fleisher that a strong faction in the Foreign OfficE
wished to confiscatE thE ADVERTISER without payment.
(END MESSAGE)
GREW
TFV

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RDS
This tElEgram must bE
TOKYO
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
NOV 5 1940
forE bein communicatEd
FROM
Dated November 2, 1940
to anyonE. (Br.)
REc'd 11:55 p.m., Nov. 1
Selegran to Jobyo draled
C
Novermbet 5 1940
SEcretary of StatE,
See Nov 4 log heremith
Washington.
cc
1540
1090, HovEmbEr 2, 11 a.m.
Embassy's tεlegram No. 965, October 10, 6 p.m. rE-
garding SalE of JAPAN ADVERTISER.
894.911/70
Pending instructions to thE contrary, I am withholding
thE dElivEry oi thE DEpartment's press rElEasEs rEcEivEd
from thE DEpartment by pouch and addrEssed to thE JAPAN
ADVERTISER.
dA
GREV:
NK
MR. HOKNBECN
FILED
NOV 5- 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
N0v --19
a

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
OFFICE
ATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
REDEIVED
PARTAIR
DepartimentotState
letter
PLAIN
artment:
"Br
Washington,
 was sent ir confidcritizl Code.l940 NOV 5 PM 6 12
ay Tetter
qightaettsarefully paraphrased before
November 5, 1940.
elngormmunicated te anyans. B
VISION OF
6Pm
$
AMEMBASSY,
MMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
TOKYO (JAPAN) VIA SHANGHAI (CHINA) AND N.R.
449
894.911/70
Your 1090, November 2, 11 a.m.
Department approves and is discontinuing sending
forward press releases through you addressed to the
Japan Advertiser.
Huel
shat
S/GC
894.911/70
akr
P A/2
CC
CI
FE:CC:JPS
mmh.
FE
5.9.8.
Sxit
Enciphered by
CR
50m
NOV
5
1940P
Sent by operator
M.,
19
1--1462
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF,FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 4, 1940.
NOV 5- 1940
MMH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PA/H
Tokyo's 1090, November 2, 11 a.m.
Heretofore as an exceptional cour-
tesy the Department's press releases
have been supplied to the Japan Adver-
tiser through the Embassy at Tokyo. It
has not been the practice to supply
those releases to American-owned news-
papers abroad generally, nor to foreign
papers.
It would appear that Ambassador
Grew's decision to withhold delivery of
the Department's press releases to the
Japan Advertiser now that that paper
has been sold is wise, and that no in-
structions to the contrary ought to be
sent.
CI (Mr. Fisher) has undertaken to
stop the sending to the Embassy at Tokyo
of the set of press releases which has
heretofore gone forward marked for the
Japan Advertiser.
FE:COVIIIe:JPS

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RTS
This telegram must bE
TOKYO VIA SHANGHAI & N.R.
closely paraphrased bE-
FROM
forE bEing conmunicated
Dated DEcember 20, 1940
to anyonE. (Br.)
Reo!d 1:30 a.m., 22nd
LLY
INTURMATIOR
8 MID
12/27/40 J0
Secretary of StatE,
281940
A
21940
Washington.
Deporturrt of State
1352
,DEcEmber 20,6 p.m.
0
SalE of thE JAPAN CHRONICLE (British nEwspaper) to
JapanEsE interests.
ThE British Embassy informs us that although com-
pletE and authoritativE information has not yEt bEEn
rEcEived from KobE, availablE information indicates
that: (onE) thE JAFAN CHRONICLE has bEen sold to thE
894.711
publishers of thE JAPAN TIMES AND ADVERTISER; (two)
purchasE pricE was "about" yEn 150,000; (thrEE) no
"objectionablE" prEssurE was brought to bEar to forcE
thE salE; (four) publication of the nEwspaper will
continue.
JANC
Except for the American owned JAPAN NEWSW EK thE
salE of thE JAPAN CHRONICLE rEprEsents thE disappEarancE
of thE last foreign newspaper in Japan.
JAN.2 1941
Sent to thE DEpartment via Shanghai.
FILED
GREW
D
EMB

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Divisior of
FARENSENAFAIRS
DEC2 1940
FROM
Department of State
GRAY
PAW
8
894.911/
KOBE VIA SHANGHAI AND N.R.
DatEd DEcEmDEr 23, 1940
REc'd 10:05 a.m. DEc.27.
SecrEtary of StatE
COPIES SENT TO
2
Weshington
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
121740
DEcEmbEr 23, 5 p.m.
PS/FF
ThE salE of thE JAPAN CHRONICLE, thE old Established
KobE  Ornine nEwspapEr, to thE JAPAN TIMTS AND ADVERTISER
14.911
will shortly bE announced. In all probability it will bE
continuEd as an Evening papEr in KobE.
Sent to thE DEpertment by radio. CodE tExt by meil to
Tokyo.
SOKOBIN
PEG
JAN.2 1941
FILED

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
MR. HORNBECK
Ct
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ARVISER
MAY 8- 1941
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIO
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 28, 1941.
No. 5408
SUBJECT:
JAPAI HEWS-WEEK
Disision of
F/.R BASTERN FAIRS
1941
Department of Statep
894.9
35
3
REVE0
AVNENTCE
19411
ONI
MID
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report on the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK,
published in Tokyo.
PS/DP
The JAPAN NEWS-WEEK, which was founded in November,
894.911
1938, by W. R. Wills, an American citizen, is unique in
being the only remain ing English-language publication in
P
Japan owned and edited by a foreigner. According to M.
FILED
2
Wills, the ent erprise began in a small way as a result of
a loan to him by a philanthropically inclined American
woman who desired to see established an organ which would
interpret

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
interpret Japan to oreign readers. In view of the pre-
sence in the  ublish ne field of the JAPA ADViNTISER
mnich then had a vide cireul ti und an established re-
rutati, it w ter il. felt at rirst th t the -
WeEk faced a precu i us ruture. nowever the proprietor
was fortunate in bei  aule to enlist the terest of sev-
ral 1 rge Jepanese Pirms waich urovided his pap r with
sufficient advertisin to enable him to place the paper on
a stable financisl basis and eventually to pay off the or-
iginal capital loan. He says that the advertisers, mostly
Japaneso firms, have continued to support his paper in
spite of pressure Pro xis and ccrtain Japanese sources.
Some of the advertisere have rankly ad itted thet they
ish to help toward maintainin: an outlet for opinions
not elsewhere expressed in Japan, and it is largely due
to such sup orters, some of whom have great influence in
industrial and official circles, that the paper has thus
far escaped suppression.
In this connection it may be mentioned that it has
often been rumored that the NEWS-WEEK has Japanese back-
ing or that it operates under Japanese subsidy. Mr. Wills
categorically denies these allegations and points to the
obvious fact that the editorials of his publication are
not the type of those which would appear in a subsidized
organ. From a financial standpoint the paper is at the
present time barely self-supporting, the generally de-
pressed state of business in Japan having had an adverse
effect upon the advertising on which the paper depends
largely

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
largely for income. However in recent months, especially
since the sale of the JAPAN ADVERTISER to Japanese inter-
ests, the subscription list of the NEWS-WEEk has shown
consideraile increase.
This
ncrease is not an unmixed
blessing because of the dirficulty of obtaining printers'
supplies and because of the fact that there is little or
no profit made from sales of the paper itself.
r. Wills
says thet the volume of news-sta:d sales of the paper are
extraordinarily large for the reason that many Japanese
regularly read the paper who do not wish to have their
names on subscription lists.
It is claimed by the proprietor that of the total cir-
culation of the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK sixty per cent is to for-
eign countries. Of the circulation in Japan, about half is
among foreign missionaries and school teachers, and a con-
siderable number of copies reaches influential Japanese
in business and official circles who read the paper to as-
certain the American viewpoint on important affairs.
Mr. Wills, who is of a somewhat adventurous nature,
declares that his paper provides him with a bare living but
with plenty of excitement. The outspoken character of the
paper's editorials has brought numerous encounters with the
censors and several sharp warnings from the police who, ap-
parently under pressure from the German Embassy in Tokyo,
have taken strong exception to the consistently anti-Axis
stand of his paper. He asserts that on one occasion he
extricated himself from what appeared to be a situation
promising certain punishment by the threat that he would
move

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
move his paper to Manila and take up an even more critical
policy toward Japan. Mr. Wills asserts that although the
NEWS-WEEK, as a newe aper ro erty is ot of reat value,
he was orfered i Au u t or lust year a rel tively large
sum by the loc l D. N. B. German news a ency who wished
to ac uire the paper as a propaganda organ. His refusal to
accept the offer was not entirely on patriotic grounds but
p rtially du to the resliz tion that the payment in yen
could not be remitted abroad.
The JAPAN NEWS-WEEK is fortunate in having an excep-
tionally able editor, Ir. C. N. Spinks, Ph. D., who not
only has a wide knowledge of th ngs Japanese but is also
the possessor of a trenchant style. The weekly editorial
column is invariably well written and illuminating especial-
ly i: viev of the fact that it is the only thing printed
in Japan at the present time which presents the American
viewpoint on international affairs. On several occasions
the editorial column of the NEWS-WEEK has discussed with
surprising forcefulness international affairs from the
American viewpoint, not sparing Japan and Japanese leaders
in its critical comments. It has been remarked that resi-
dents of Japan have seen no such outspoken editorial column
since the departure from Japan of Morgan Young, late edi-
tor of the JAPAN CHRONICLE. However, Mr. Wills points out
that his paper has abstained from belittling or sneering
tactios and has always endeavored when discussing a situa-
tion to do so boldly but objectively, an attitude which has
found a surprising amount of support among the Japanese.
While the policy of the NEWS-WEEK has unquestionably
been

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
been strongly pro-American and therefore anti-Axis, the paper
has not by any means followed consistently the lines of pol-
icy laid down by the Administr tion i Washington. While
in general the paner supports ana upholds the  olicies of
the U. ited States vith reguru to the Far ast it has cons-
istently opposed the applic:tion of embargoes and sanctions,
and has frequently attacked the American policy with regard
to soviet Russia.
What is principally lacking in the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK, as
indeed is the case with all other papers in Japan, is news
that has not come in through the Domei filter or is not
channeled alon the lines of Axis policy. The British Em-
bassy in Tokyo, which has shown appreciation of the anti-
Axis  tand of the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK, is endeavoring to ar-
range for the services of a first-class correspondent in
England and has urged that contact be made with some gual-
ified corres ondent in the United States. Although under
present circumstances it is not likely that an independent
daily newspaper would be permitted to maintain regular cor-
respondence from abroad, it is possible that a weekly news-
paper which has demonstrated its ability to resist attacks
from Japanese authority might be able to carry correspon-
dence from abroed if published in the form of news letters
or weekly columns.
Mr. Wills has expressed the hope that in case the paper
survives the vicissitudes of the present situation he may
be able to develop it into a true newspaper which will fill
the void left by the passing of the JAPAN ADVERTISER and
which will present to the reader in Japan news and comment
not

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
not tinctured by the ubiquitous Japanese bias. It is my
feeling that the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK is doing a good job in
the difficult task of presentin: the American viewpoint to
the Japanese  ublic and my belief that the paper deserves
support i: this ef ort. Ferhaps it i ht se possible to
encourage advertisin by ne iean sus es. firms, which
thus far have taken the attitude, perhaps justifiable on
a purc ly business basis, th t loc 1 busi ess conditions do
not warrant e. c ditures for advertis ng.
2/
There are enclosed clip ings of several recent editor-
iel articles in regard to internct oncl relations which are
particularly xterest und vhich will repay reading. There
1/
is also enclosed a sumnary of the stme ccitorials which may
be use ul or ready reference.
In this connecti I may say that Mr. Wills informed me
in aavance of his intention to write the editorial of Jan-
uary 25 adversely criticiri: o Government's policy in dis-
tinguishin Soviet Russia from other so-called a ggressor
nations, explainine thet i order to observe a proper balance
in maintaining his paper in Japan, he felt bound to express
frankly his euitorial opinion on this subject. Following
our talk I similarly felt obliged to express my own opinion
3/
in a letter to Mr. Wills, a copy of wiich is enclosed here-
with.
Rob6.Frm
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/ - Summary of editorials
2/ - Editorials (olippings attached to original only)
3/ - Letter to Mr. Wills.
891
WTT:rk
Original and 4 copies to the Department,
Copy to Embassy, Peiping,
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 5408 of
Feb. 28, 1941, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Summary of Certain Editorial Articles Appearing in Recent
Issues of the Japan News-Week, Tokyo.
December 21, 1940.
In a forthright article entitled "Inconsistency" in the
issue of December 21, the editor of the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK points
out that Mr. Matsuoka is striving to uphold a glaring incon-
sistency when he insists that America must not concern her-
self in Eastern Asia but at the same time declares that Japan
will live up to her obligations under the Tripartite Alliance.
Mr. Matsuoka, the writer states, is attempting by this alli-
ance to tell the United States that, regardless of what it
may deem its best interests to be, it can not intervene in
Europe unless it is prepared to fight Japan.
The writer continues: "Now if the New Order in East
Asia and the settlement of Sino-Japanese problems are Japan's
sole concern, the United States' policy towards Great Brit-
ain and the European war is America's sole business." He
points out that regardless of any military alliances Japan
may conclude with the Axis Powers, American policy towards
the European war has been definitely fixed, and no reminder
by Mr. Matsuoka of Japan's alliance obligations over issues
which are beyond the scope of her legitimate business will
change that policy.
December 28, 1940.
In an article of December 28 the editor of the NEWS-
WEEK reviews the year 1940 with particular emphasis on foreign
affairs. He points out that Japan, by casting her lot with
the Nazifascist regimes of Europe, has turned her back on
two former friends, the United States and Great Britain, and
has created the most serious tension ever experienced with
those once friendly Powers. The sole compensation has been
an ideological kinship with the Nazifascists which has yet
to reveal its practical advantages.
While the China Affair continued to drag on during 1940,
its settlement has been overshadowed by totalitarian reforms
at home and more spectacular adventures abroad. Yet this
protracted war still remains Japan's major concern which must
be solved before any New Order or New Structure can effectively
be constructed. The editor declares that the most serious de-
velopment of l940 was the failure to effect a re-adjustment
in Japanese-American relations. In permitting those relations
to deteriorate, and concerning herselr with issues far afield,
it is apparent that Japan has drunk too deeply of the totali-
tarian vintage. "The costly under-estimation of China's
strength in 1937 has been forgotten and today in recklessly
challenging America over issues which are not their legiti-
mate concern, the leaders of Japan are once more under-estimat-
ing the naval, military, and economic strength of a potential
enemy."
January 4, 1941.
In an artiole of January 4, the editor of the NEwS-WEEk
comments on Mr. Matsuoka's contention that the so-called
Old Order has subjected the majority of peoples to the
menace of suffocation and that the suffocated nations
have

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
have no other recourse but to resort to force in an effort
to realize their just demands. "Since when", he asks, "have
the Axis Powers constituted an oppressed majority? And how",
he demands, "can their actious to date be squared with rhe
realization of just spir ti ns?"
In conclusion the editor oi ts out that the root of
all Japan's prool ms is the unsettled Chi a Affair and that
until that fundamental problem is settled it is idle to dis-
cuss the aujustment of other uesti ns. Thet settlement,
however, can not ve ma de if Japan's energies are to be di-
verted by other, perhaps even more serious, complications
and it is futile to assume that the China Affair can be solv-
ed by taking on the new and hazardous adventures which some
of her leaders would have Japan pursue.
January 11, 1941.
In the issue of January 11, the editor of the JAPAN NEWS-
WEEK discusses the possibility of a meeti g of business or
other unofficial leaders from Japan and the United States
for discussions vhich mi ht enable the two Powers to dis-
cover the basis for an understand ing and to break the dead-
lock in their position. The sug estion of the conference
is not of particular interest, but some of the discussion
which accompanies the suggestion is extremely pertinent.
The writer declares: "As the sitution now stands,the
Gov rnments of Japan and the United States have assumed
utterly irreconcilable positions. Th re can be no diplo-
matic re-adjustment of relations in such an atmosphere.
Such is the result of what some have preferred to call
'immutable policies'. Unfortunately, it is a game at whioh
two, or more, can play, with the result that reasonable,
logical, mutually-beneficial, and much-needed re-adjust-
ments and compronises are ruled out. The only choice left
is that inevitable showdown. And that is precisely what
the two Powers face today".
January 25, 1941.
The editorial article appearing in the NEWS-WEEK of
January 25 will be of particular interest to the Department,
for in it is discussed in critical vein, the Secretary's
testimony in support of the Lease-Lend Bill before the
House Foreign Affairs Committee. The editor declares that
if the United States is determined to assume a strong atti-
tude towards the Axis Powers, the American Government can
not consistently make a dist inction between Japan and her
partners so long as Japan professes,by virtue of the Tri-
partite Alliance, to share Germany's and Italy's aspira-
tions for a so-called new World Order. The editor makes
the point that American opposition to the Axis Powers springs
from the Amerioan conviotion that they are aggressors who
have violated oertain treaties and principles of international
1aw

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
law upo: which the American Government believes that world
peace and security depend, and in this attitude the Amer-
i can Government's position is clear and unequivocal.
The writer then declares thet i. onitting reference
o the Soviet Union as ohe of those to whom the charge of
aggression was a plied, the Secretary has shown regrettable
lack of impartiality. The editor contends thet i attempt-
in to ean the Soviet Union awey Iro the Axis, the Amer-
lean Government is playing up to Loscow, but at the same
time ravely compro is ing its previous conception of a broad,
moral basis for internati nal security, and jeopardizes the
effectiveness of the American attitude towards those Powers
which it has named a gressors; "there can not be two kinds
of aggression, one which America must condemn and one which,
for exuediency's sake, it cen condone."
February 1, 1941.
The issue of February 1 of the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK ex-
pressed a view with which most roreign students of Japan
will heartily concur, namely, that "the studied generali-
ties which have surrounded most Japanese pronouncements of
policy and explanati ns of action have not been calculated
to inspir the understanding of Japan's position which
Japanese leadership has so consistently maintained must be
understood as a basis for international dealings with this
country". The editor points out that although Japan often
maintains that America does not understand Japan's true
intentions, actually America may understand too well Japan's
aims.
With regard to the proposed "New Order", American opin-
ion looks upon this formula as "a politico-metaphysical at-
tempt to legitimize Japanese domination of Eastern Asia
under the guise of assuring Asiatic welfare by the expul-
sio of western influences and the substitution of Japan-
ese influences therefor." Moreover, the editorial declares,
Americans have a clear understandin of what Japan means by
"promoting world peace and a new World Order through poli-
tical association with Germany and Italy; namely, that the
Tripartite Alliance is designed to expedite the fall of the
Br tish Empire by forestalling American assistance so that
Japan can claim from her partners a substantial share of the
spoils".
The editor observes that "it must be recognized that
the flexible vagueness of Japan's definitions of policy
has done much to arouse in their (American) minds the dis-
turbing suspicion that Japan harbors far-reaching ambitions
so inimical to the position of others that they had best
be clothed in terms no one can understand."
February 8, 1941.
The editor of the JAPAN NEWS-WEEK discusses in the
issue

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
issue of February 8 the adaress of Chancellor Hitler in
which the Fuehrer warned a rainst Americen shipning aid to
Great Britein. The ed'tor points out that with Arerican
aid to rita in nw asout to rhit to h e, Germany
is lookn loe
 mere y the Pripartite Al-
liane e'n  brousht into foree ta ur thereby brought
about betwe Jed States. The editor de-
elores t'rt it er is attemptim to l the fon tions of
a cuse upo. whic. h can invoke the Pripartite alli ne and
 ll u  Ja un for the military and naval support which he
nov  nds he nust h ve if he is to achieve his aims. The
editor ex lains is paper'  tanc oi t by sayin: tht if,
in poi tin ous th a or o n irection of the Axis
of war betveen Ja un and t. t. ite tates, the apor should
run counter to th culeu tions o? those to whom such war
i just nother move on the chessuoard of "Weltpolitik",
it could"et least claim a genuine regard for the future
Welfare of Japan and a sincere hope for the peace of the
Pacific which ure not theirs."
February 15, 1941.
An an article dated Febru vy 1s, the cditor of the
JAPAN NEws-WEsk coments u on the recention accorded Ad-
Miral Nomura in the United States, and makes a plea for a
straightforward statement of Japan's aims in the Far ast.
He declares that althou h Americen opinion is unanimous in
desiring a peaceful settlement of the present cricis, there
is a growint suspicion that from the Japanese point of view
only one settlement is possible; namely, one whic: embraces
full American acceptance of all claims Japan has put for-
ward, which for the sake of convenience are called the "New
Order". Just what these claims precisely mean has never
been revealed, although there have been no end of pronounce-
ments and explanati:ns from Japanese s okesmen. The case
has thus far been stated in va ue generlities, in nice-
sounding, wordy professions of an Asia which will be up-
lifted and enjoy a prosperity infi itely greater than any
in the past.
America agrees in principle with many of these fine-
worded aims, but places em hasis on action rather than
words. This attitude on the part of America is only nat-
ural; it is Japan who is asking America to subscribe to
certain changes i the status quo and it is only logical
for the United States to demand that Japan's program be
stated in terms clear enough to be understood. The editor
declares that any impartial observer would agree that Japan
has a far better understanding of American desires in the
Far East than America has of Japan's aims.
February 22, 1941.
In an editorial of February 22, remarkable for its
foroeful language the editor of the NEWS-WEEK comments fur-
ther on Japanese attempts to explain away Amerioan appre-
hension

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
hension over Japan's adherence to the Tripartite Alliance.
These efforts are stated to center around the three argu-
monts: that the Tripartite Alliance is an instrument of
peace; th t it is desi ned to achieve the principle of
racial equelity; and th t it constitutes no threat towards
the U. ited States. The statement made in a previous edi-
torial is repeated: that American opinion can not escape
the conclusion that the Tripartite Pact is a war-like ins-
trument and feels that its issues with Japan can not be
settled upon the basis of this alliance as the governing
factor i Japanese-American relations.
The editor points out that Japan, by now must realize
that its alliance with Germany and Italy has had a deter-
ioratin effect on rel ti ns with the United States, and
that the Treaty has caused the United States to stiffen
its attitude towards Japan. Perhaps because of this reason
Japenese spokesmen have recent ly been making strenuous but
futile efforts to convince the United States that the Tri-
partite Alliance is a reasonable and peaceful measure and
not a threatening gesture and not irreconcilable with a
satisfactory settlement of Japanese-American differences.
As regards the Foreign Linister's statement in the Diet
that the Alliance is designed to achieve the principle of
racial equality, the editor points out the anomaly of try-
ing to attain this objective in alliance with a country
which is the arch protagonist of Aryan supremacy. The
editor concludes with the remark that America has opinions
in regard to the purpose of the Alliance, and constant ef-
forts by Japanese apologists to convince the United States
of the benefits to her of this Treaty only convinces Amer-
ican opinion that the Treaty is inimical to American inter-
ests and that Japan knows that this is so and is only try-
ing to disperse this fear.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 2 to Despatch no.
5408, dated February 28, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, DECEMBER 21, 1940
Inconsistency
An Editorial
In speaking of certaon detibera-
an  cas on in honor of th new and European affairs. When Mr.
Ton- of the Central Fo-ope ativ
Japanese (nvoy to the United
Mat: uoka / d clares that Japan
ouncil, our contem, orar, 'The
tates, American opinion must
will live up to her obligations un-
Japan T'm.s and Advertiser'
accept it as a ba-ic condition
der this alliance, he is attempting
noted Wednesday :18) th. wide
which will govein Amba-sador
to tell the United States that, re-
degree of free expression whi h
Nomura's relations with the
ardkss of what it may deem its
prevailed at the sessions, and
American Government.
best interests to be, it cannot en-
concluded that "the new order has
It is idl- to pretend that the
ter the European War, or, if it
definitely not int rfered with
Tripartite Alliance has not arous-
does so, it must be prepartd to
liberty of -peech in any construc-
ed deep resentm: nt in the United
ight Japan as well.
tive cause."
States: and it i- still more idle
Am:rican opinion deeply re-
If we may assume that we are
to pretend that Ameri a can be
sent: this glaring inconsistency.
d aling with a con t: uctive cause,
indifferent in its polic'e d ac-
It dee,ly res:nt: Japan's endeavor
namely, the improvement of Ja-
tiens toward this pact. American
to exercise a d term nant in-
panese- American relations, it
pinion re:ents this alliance be-
fluence on Ameri an policy in a
might be ap:ropr'ate to pres nt
caus. it seek. to impose limita-
theate: wh re America f:el it
r (dy herewith what w. hone:t-
ion on America': freedom of ac-
ha: vital interests at stake, and
ly beli ve is and will be the
ton. It resents :ven moie to be
where Japan': int rests are at
American reaction to the peech
teld that this all an.e must gov-
best only s condary.
d livered by Foreign M nist r
rn Am rica's relations with Eu-
America's reaction to Mr. Ma-
Yosuke Matsuoka at the meetin:
ope as well as America': rela-
tsuoka's thesi is and must be one
of the Japan-America Society
ions with Japan over strictly
of utter hostility. Whether Ja-
Thursday (19) in honor of Ad-
Pacifie affai1s.
pan (and her Axi: friends) lik
miral Kichisabu:o Nomura, Ja-
In laying down this allianc? as
it or not, the United States has
pan's n w Ambassador to the
the guiding force in Japan's
now dec ded that for the sake of
Un'ted States.
diplomacy, wh) h means the
its own intere ts and w ll-being
The Foreign Minister expre sed
guiding fore: in her relations
in the Western Hemisph:re (not
an earnest hope for improvement
with the United States, Mr.
in Japan's backyard) it must give
in itlations with the United
Mat uoka is :triving to uphold a
Great Brita'n ev.ry po sible as-
Stat:s, and we join in hi: prayer
glaring inconsistency. Japan has
sistance, evin, if nc:e sary, to the
that Ambassador Nomura's mis-
consist ntly maintained that Ea t-
extent of going to war with the
sion will be crowned with :u.cess.
ern Asia is a :phere in which she
Nazifascists. Th: United States
But the paramount point in Mr.
ha- paramount influenc?, that she
has decided that its own «afety
Matsuoka': address, what was es-
is to assume leadership ther in as
in the Western H. misphere hence-
sentially the pr:m'se upon which
a stabilizing force. Japan has con-
forth d pends upon Britain's vic-
he, as For ign Mini ter of Japan,
sistently sented what he main-
tory and the complete defeat of
would base all future dealings
tains is i varranted int: rference
Germany and Italy. And the
with America, was his repeat:d
by other Fowers with only s:cond-
United States has d:cided that if
declaration that the Tripartite
ary interest: in this part of the
Br'tain's victory and G.rmany's
Military Alliance is henc: forth the
world. And on thi: bas's she'
and Italy's defeat depend upon
ba is of Japan's foreign policy.
has with firm determination
American assi tance or military
To his credit, Mr. Mat uoka 1:ft
ignored or reje:t:d what she has
support, these shall be forthcom-
no cause for doubt as to what
considered to be such unwarrant-
ing.
this principle implies: namely,
ed interference.
Now if the New Ord:r in East
that America must expect Japan
But while mainta:ning that
Asia and the settlement of Sino-
to live up to the full obligations
others must not m ddle in the
Japanese probl:m are Japan':
of this military alliance.
affairs of Eastern Asia, Japan,
sole conc:rn, the Un ted States'
In view of the fact that this
through this nilitary alliance, is
policy toward Great Britain and
point was once more stres:ed at
seeking to interfere in American
(Continued om Page 8)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
the European War is America's
dom of action in American and
ole busin s Any attempt on
Eurorean affairs which Mr.
Japan  part to unthoence o der r
Matsuoka would have as a re-ult
à me Amerien deets on and a-
of Japan's allian with the Nazi-
tion- in that direction will be
faseist And America will not
ppeod be the Unit d Stat 
b prepared to negotiate wii Ja-
whatever the result: may be
pan on Far Eastern and Pacne
Regardless of any m litary al
aflairs so long as Japan -eems to
liance th Axi: Pow r- mas con-
make this alliance and its obli-
chude. American policy towaid
gation-, which Mi. Matsuoka so
the European war ha- been de-
point dly emphasized. the guid-
finitely fixed, and no r mind r of
ing 1 rinciple of it- policy toward
Japan's allian e obligations over
the Unit d State
is ues which are be ond the - op
The premise wh h Mr. Matsu
of her legitimate busness will
oka has laid down will positively
hange it.
opai dize the pos-ibility of Ad-
Thi- we tru-t is an accurate
m.ral Nomura's effecting a suc-
appraisal of America': attitude
c ssful readjustment of Japan-
toward the Tripartite Allian e
e-e-American relations. If Japan
and Japan's obligations th r un-
is thus det  rmined to subordinate
der. Japan would not look with
her own relations with America,
favor if the United States had
and the possibility of putting those
entered into a military alliance
relations on a mutually satisfac-
with Britain or s ome other Power
tory basis, (to her allian e with
for th: purpose of restrictin: Ja-
Germany and Italy, then let there
ran's fr edom of action in what
be no misunder-tanding about
he believed wa-st: iethy h r own
America's future attitude.
sphere and over what he b lieved
And finally, let there be no mis-
w re :trictly her own interests.
understanding about Japan News-
And Japan would probably not
Week's attitude toward this ques-
be willing to suboidinate her own
tion. Ou criticism of the Tri-
freedom of action over what sh.
partite Alliance and Japan's insis-
felt were her ewn vital is u. to
tence that it be th: guiding force
a military alliance among other
 Japan's future relations with
Pow rs. America in the present
the United stat's comes from no
instanc: is assuming precisely the
fundamental prejudice toward
same attitude, for the United
Japan or from any desite to deal
"tate: will net : ubord nate h r
with a:pects of Japanese affairs
own freedom over issu's which
which are beyond our legitimat.
ar. vital to her, to Japan's allian.e
concern. We hav, dedicated Japan
with the Nazifa cists. Japan has
News-Week to the mi-sion of con-
oppos d a Chiang Kai- hek or a
tributing toward better relations
Communi t-dominated China b:-
between Japan and the United
cause she feel: that such would
States, and as such we cannot re-
be inimical to her int tests and
concile this alliance and Japan's
safety. America for pleci:ly
intent to have it determine the
the : ame reason: is now opposed
basis of Japanese-American rela-
to a Eu:ope dominated by the
tions with any conscientious ef-
Nazifascist:.
fort to improve those relations.
But if the American reaction to
Mr. Matsuoka's th:sis is one of
hostility, there i: also a feeling
of sincere regret that Japan must
place this serious lim tation upon
the mi sion of h.r new Ambassa-
dor to Wa hington. Admiral No-
mura is eminently qual'fied to
deal with Far East:rn and Pacific
issues which have brought the two
Powers to such a pass. And
Am:rica is likewise piepared to
negotiate with Japan on these
issues, as she,has done in the past.
But n:ither Admiral Nomura nor
anyone else can go to Wa:hington
and (xpect the Unit:d States to
accept the limitation on its free-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408 dated February 28, 1941
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, JAN. 4, 1941
America Sociéty December 19 is
recalled, it would seem that the
Looking Forward
uncertain future of Japanese-
American relations is one impor-
In looking forward to 1941,
tant cause of such pessimism.
those who guide the destinies of
'But here the future is with Ja-
Japan have taken an exce dingly
pan. What lies ahead is Japan's
sober and realistic view of the
choice.
complex uncertainties which lie
The Foreign Minister's expla-
ahead. To their credit, the tradi-
nation of the present world
tional New Year messages of the
catastrophe will hardly receive
Government leaders are free from
wide acceptance outside the range
that careless buoyance which is
of the Axis Powers. He main
usually reserved for such an oc-
tains that the so-called old order
casion. There is no loss of faith
has subjected the majority of
in the future of Japan, there is
peoples to the menace of suffo-
still marked confidence in the final
cation, that they want to in:ist
outcome of the profound changes
upon their right of existence
now taking place, and there is
through peaceful channels, but
still voiced a firm det imination
that the minority nations in
to carry on; but whatever en-
power have refused to heed their
thusiasm this attitude may im-
request with the result that the
ply is judiciously tempered by the
majority nations have no other
frank realization that a hard road
course but to resort to force in
lies ahead, that tremendous diffi-
an effort to realize th:ir ju:t de-
culties must be overcome, that
mands. Since when, the world
the nation must prepare itself for
will ask, have the Axis Powers
still greater sacrifices, hardships,
constituted an opplessed major-
and even disappointments.
ity? And how, the world will
In greeting what marks the
ask, can their actions to date be
fifth year of Japan's protracted
squared with the realization of
conflict in China, Premier Prince
just aspirations? There may be
Fumimaio Konoye warns that the
an answer, but the Foreign Min-
nation must be fully prepared to
ister's explanation of the present
meet any eventualities on the as-
world catastrophe dos not carry
sumption that various forms of
it.
international pressure may be
When turning to the internal
imposed on Japan this year.
situation, the New Year messages
The Premier places much hope on
of the State Ministers 1eflect a
the realization of the New Order,
similar uncertainty. Finance
on the effectiveness of the new
Minister Isao Kawada emphasizes
the fact that the China conflict
partnership with Germany and
is responsibl? for a General Ac-
Italy, on the advantages to be
count budget for the 1941-42 fis-
accrued from the projected new
cal year of ¥6,860,000,000 as
political structure. But he
against the settled General Ac-
nevertheless recognizes something
count of ¥2,280,000,000 for 1936,
of an impasse when he concludes
the year before the outbreak of
that the only way "to break
ho:tilities. This will bring the
through the present situation" is
total 1941-42 budget to about
to heighten the traditional
Y12,000,000,000. De:pite every
strength, to bear the various
effort to cut down expenses, the
hardships which Japan now faces.
figures for the coming year ex-
Despite Japan's new foreign
ceed by Y760,000,000 the 1940-41
alignments, despite the apparent
budget. To date the cost of the
progress Japan has made in 1940
war in China has come to over
in rounding out the substance and
sixteen billion yen, not including
scope of the New Order, Foreign
estimates for the coming year.
Minister Yosuke Matsuoka faces
Thus the Finance Minister has
the international situation of
cause to claim that this tremen-
1941 with no optimism. The
dous fiscal expansion "has impos-
2,600th year of the Empire finds
ed greater burdens on the na-
a life-and-death struggle in
tion." Taxes have been increa:ed
Europe and Asia which appears
four times since the outbreak of
destined to engulf all humanity.
hostilities. But higher taxes
The Foreign Minister sees 1940
clo:ing with the world in "breath-
notwithstanding, "a greater por-
less anxiety and bewilderment."
tion of the military expenditures
What lies ahead he cannot pre-
is to be met with national bond
issues," the cumulative total of
dict, but he is obviously appre-
which now amounts to the
hensive. "In greeting the New
Year it may sound inpropitious,
astronomical figure of ¥17,270,-
and it is, indeed, the last thing
000,000. Of this total, about
in the world that I wish for, but
¥13,990,000,000 was assimilated
in my innermost heart I fear lest
by December 26, 1940, but in the
this year may pérchance prove to
coming fiscal year in the neigh-
be a most tragic and most unfor-
borhood of ¥1,880,000,000 in ad-
tunate one for the entire man-
ditional bonds will be issued for
kind." When the Foreign Min-
the General Account alone, those
ister's addre:s before the Japan-
for the Special and Military Ex-

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
penditure
Accounts having not
These frank appraisals of the
yet been
determined.Various
serious problems Japan must face
measures
are therefore under
in 1941 in every field are most
consideration to accelerate the
welcome after some of the effu-
assimilation of these tremendous
sive generalizations which have
issues.
been heard since the advent of the
In the international field, the
new stiucture and the conclusion
Finance Minister expects further
of the Tripartite Alliance. Japan
curtailment in both Japan's ex-
has now reached that point where
ports and imports and greater
there is serious danger of over-
difficulties in obtaining necessary
shooting the mark. The un-
materials from abroad, but at a
settled China affair has to all ap-
time when the demand for such
pearances been subordinated to
materials cannot be reduced. The
other qu:stions. Its settlement
nation, therefore, may expect
should come before everything
still more stringent control over
else, but it cannot be settled satis-
the supply and demand of goods,
factorily if Japan's energies are
for it has been found necessary
to be divert:d by other, perhaps
to re-examine thoroughly the ex-
even more serious, complications.
isting productive capacity expan-
In looking forward to 1941, it
sion plan, the formula by which
is to be hoped that Japan will
Japan had hoped to tide over the
fully bear in mind the substance
crisis.
of thee New Year messages.
The Finance Minister views
The outlook is not one to warrant
with no little concern the outlook
optimism, mainly because Japan's
in Japan's export trade. He de-
basic problem today—the esta-
cries the claim that self-suffici-
blishment of peaceful relations
ency for the purpose of a highly
with China—remains unsettled.
organized . defense system can
It is idle to disuss the adjustment
overlook the importance of ex-
or settlement of other questions
ports. Moreover, he notes that
so long as this fundamental
the importance of gold in inter-
malady prevails. And it is still
national payments remains un-
more idle to assume that the
changed, "when optimism is not
solution of the China argir can
necessarily warranted with res-
be found in the array of new and
pect to our exports to the non-
hazal dous adventures which some
yen trading areas." In brief, the
of her leaders would have Japan
Finance Minister fully recognizes
pursue. Japan has long claimed
that Japan's finances face a severe
that the settlement of her prob-
trial in 1941.
lems with China was a strictly
Commerce and Industry Min-
Sino-Japanese affair. Let us hope
ister Ichizo Kobayashi likewise
that in 1941 Japan will adhere to
stresses the strain which Japan's
this axiom and follow a course
economic structure must bear in
which will avoid making the solu-
the coming year. He believes
tion of the China affair contingent
that American restrictions in ex-
upon the settlement of what may
poits of iron and steel and
prove to be far greater and infin-
machine tools can be overcome,
itely more serious problems.
but he notes that "the situation
has undergone a marked change
both at home and abroad since the
conclusion of the Triple Alliance
Pact," changes which demand a
1e-examination of policies and
methods heretofore pursued for
the realization of a highly
organized defense system. The
Minister therefore predicts still
gleater stringency in the supply
of civilian demands other than
the daily necessities. The nation,
he says, will have to suffer more
and more hardships, but such is
essentialiy prerequisite to a
further expansion of national
prestige.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to Despatch no.
5408, dated February 28, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, JAN. 11, 1941
But how can this fundamental
desire to avoid a needless conflict
A Way Out?
be translated into action which
can prevent such a war? How
can the peoples of both nations
Recent development: have foree-
find a means to express their
fully demonstrated that Japan
wishes in a wa that will not run
and the United states are rapidiy
counter to the immutable policies
approaching a show down. The
of their Governments. that may
two Government, haye decided
esen make it pos-ible for their
upon what some quarters choose
Governme nt> to tind a way out of
to call 'immutable policies: Japan
the impa se nto which those im-
has set the New Ord r a-it: goal.
mutable polictes hay. led? The
has concluded a military alliance
preblem is diflicult: it may even
with the Nazifaseists ostensibly
be hopele-s, but it is nevertheless
for the realization of this project.
worthy of an effort, perhaps what
and has announe:d that this mili-
may he the tinal effort to preserve
tary alliance will go into effect it
the peace of the Paci ie. What
the United States atte mpt. in
we suggest. therefore. may be
tervene in the Eurepean War. On
utteily inopportune. may be a
th - other hand, by one of the most
last, desperate effort which com's
outspoken utterances ever made
too late. Yet it may hold the key
by an American Chief Executive.
to an other wi e unsolvable p: ob-
President Roosevelt in his fiieside
luni.
talk of December 29 .et forth the
in the August 17. 19:0. issue
American position in terms no
of Japan Nevs-Week the sugges-
one can misunderstand.
tion was tendered that, since
The e sence of the President's
diplomatic relations between Ja-
frank statement of policy can be
pan and America had reached an
summed up in three points, name-
apparent deadlock, there might be
ly. that the United States will
a po-sibility for business or other
have none of this new world order
unotficial lead rs trom the two
which the Axis Powers are de-
countrie-, who were not burdened
termined to bestow upon mankind.
with the diplomatic commitments
that, from the American point of
which handicapped the two Gov-
view, the policies and actions of
einments, to meet for unofficial
th se Powers constitute a real
discussions which might lead to
menace to American security, and
results which would enable the
that, Tripartite Alliance threats
Governments of the two Powers
notwithstanding, the U n i t ed
to discover th. basis for an un-
States is determined to continue
derstanding. In more normal
and to enlarge it: progiam of aid
times. such a suggestion would
to those nations which are fight-
not seem so fantastic as it does
ing against the Axis Powers.—
today. It will be recalled that a
Britain, Greece, and (hina.
few years ago the textile leaders
Thus, as th, situation now
of Japan and America, meeting
stands, the Governments of Japan
uncfficially without the handicaps
and the United States have as-
of official auspices, arrived at an
sumed utterly irreconcilable posi-
important agreement on textile
tions. There can b? no diploma-
imports into the United States.
tic re-adjustment of relations in
There are precedents for such
such an atmosphere. Such is the
unofficial parleys, and although
result of what some have prefer-
the situation today may not lend
red to call 'immutable policies.'
itself easily to any form of ra-
Unfortunately, it is a game at
tional discussion, unofficial or
which two, or more, can play,
otherwise, such an approach may
with the result that reasonable,
afford one ray of hope.
logical, mutually-beneficial, and
We are not prepared to say
much-need.d /re-adjustments and
whether such a method would re-
compromi-es/are ruled out. The
ceive wide acceptance in Japan.
only choice left is that inevitable
And it may be difficult to gauge
show-down. And that is precistly
the extent to which American
what the two Powers face today.
opinion would endorse such a pro-
Despite the fact that Japan and
posal. Nevertheless, there are
the United States have thus rea-
influential unofficial elements in
ched such a serious impasse, it
the United States which believe
would not be in error to claim
that this type of unofficial parley
that the peoples of these two na-
may offer a solution to the Japan-
tions earnestly pray that the final
ese-American problem.
show-down can in some way be
And there are even American
avoided. And in their hearts,
business leaders, too, who, re-
when they do not have to speak
gardless of the present diplomatic
for the sake of face, the leaders
impasse, believe that there is still
of these two nations no doubt
hope of settling the Pecific prob-
pray too that there will be a way
out.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
lem through a formal, official
Thus far, however, it can haid-
conference. For instance, Mr.
ly be said that Japan's policies
Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney.
and actions have been de igned to
chairman of Pan-American Air-
take advantage of the fact that
ways an organization with vital
such a hody of American opinion
cemmercial interests in the Paci-
has survived the terrific strain
e which depend upon the main-
wnich ha been imposed on the
tenance of peace and good r la-
two countries' relations. Nor have
tions). suggested last fall a Far
Amer ican policies and actions al
Iastein conter ne to be hele
ways piven those elements in Ja-
possibly at Manila on the in-
pan which favor better relations
vitation of the United States.
with the U'nited States much en-
to which would be invited re-
couragement. The damage has
presentatives of Japan. the
been done. What is needed today
Netherland: Indies. Australia.
i not furth r recrimination over
New Zealand. the Philip-
ssues which have been foreed into
pines. and any other interest: d
this regrettable deadlock. but
countrits, with their economic
seriou: con ideration to discover
and military advisers. Mr. Whit-
if there is not some way in which
ney at this time declared: "I pre-
the calamity which both peoples
dict that out of such a conference
abhor can be averted.
would come a peace that would
If dipomatic n gotiations or
last for many years; because if
official diseus-ions have been rul-
Japan's intentions are peaceful
ed out because of so-called im-
she will have a chance to prove it,
mutable policies which both Gov-
and if they are not, the other
ernm nts have seized, there may
nations of the Pacific will have
still be a chance for element:
their chance to get together for
among th: peoples of the two na-
their general welfare."
tions to indicate a way out by
In uggesting the holding of
unofficial discussions of the qu's-
such a conference, after all that
tion: which the two Governments
has transpired since th: outbreak
have failed to solve. If some such
of the China affair. Mr. Whitnev
step is not taken, the final show-
left himself open to the odious
down can hardly b: avoided.
charge of advocating app asement.
Nevertheless, it is worthy of note
that such an influential and na-
tion-wide publication as 'Collier's'.
the American weekly, whole-
heartedly endorsed Mi. Whitney's
suggestion in its issue of Novem-
ber 16, 1940. Declared 'Collier's':
"Properly approached, Japan's
leaders ought to be willing to sit
in at some such get-tog ther. * * *
The sensible viewpoint, it seems
to us, is that it would be far bet-
ter if the United States and Japan
could avert a war, and go on do-
ing their large and mutually pro-
fitable business with each other."
These suggestions may be of no
practical value now. Of late Japan-
e·e leadership has shown a pcu-
liar dislike toward any thought
of a truly international gathering
for the consideration of Far East-
ern affaiis. The Washington Con-
ference and other meetings are
con-tantly cited as examples of the
alleg d hardships Japan has suf-
fered as a result of submitting
questions to such deliberation. Be
that as it may, and regardless of
their apparent futility, the Amer-
ican suggestions just reviewed in-
dicate that there is an influential
body of opinion in the United
States which clings to the belief
that a final show-down can be
avoided and that a satisfactory
settlement is still possible.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no.
5408 dated February 28, 1941, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, JAN. 25,
1941
Without discussing the validity
of Secretary Hull's contentions,
Fish & Fowl
it would be appropriate neverthe-
less to point out that his direct
In his testimony in suppoit of
frankness in dealing with such
the lease-lend bill before the
questions is a commendable con-
House Foreign Affairs Com-
trast to the customary generali-
mittee, Secretary of 'State Cordell
ties and vagueness which usually
Hull launched one of the severest
characterize attempts to criticize
verbal attacks against the Axis
the actions and policies of other
Powers ever made by an Amer-
Powers with which one is not ac-
ican official. Without omitting
tually at war. The Axis Powers,
names and mincing no words, the
the recipients of this diiect
Secretary of State directly charg-
criticism, should have no further
ed that Germany, Italy and Japan
cause to speculate upon the
were "bent on a program of un-
official American attitude toward
limited conquest" which would
their activities, and all past and
menace American security if
subsequent American m:asures
Great Britain were defeated.
for the assistance of Great Bri-
In one respect there was noth-
tain and others and for the main-
ing unusual in Secietary Hull's
tenance of American security can
pointed remarks, for they are
ploperly be evaluat:d in terms of
primarily a reflection of the atti-
this clearly revealed American at-
tude which the great bulk of
titude.
American opinion now holds to-
The fact that Japan and Ja-
ward the Axis Powers. But
panese policies came in for such
there was one new element in-
direct condemnation is not neces-
jected into this testimonial
sarily illogical. If the American
broadside. On no previous occa-
Government believes that Japan
sion has an American official
is one of the plunderbund and
made such a direct and severe
bases its policies upon that as-
condemnation of Japan and Ja-
sumption, no useful purpose
panese policies. It might well be
would be served by concealing
said that Sccietary Hull's testi-
such a fact. Moreover, the
mony was devoted primarily to
American Government cannot
this aspect of the problem. In
consistently make a distinction
discussing what he called an ef-
between Japan and its Axis
fort to destroy the very founda-
Partners so/long as Japan, Ger-
tions of a civilized world, Secre-
many and Átaly by virtue of the
tary Hull charged that "the first
Tripartite/ Alliance profess to
step in this fatal direction oc-
share the/same aspirations for a
curred in the Far East in 1931
so-called hew world order. If the
with the forceful occupation of
United States did attempt to
Manchuria in contravention of
make such a distinction, Japan
the provisions of the Nine Power
might well question the sincerity
Treaty and the Kellogg-Briand
of the American Government's
Pact." All that has followed in
position. In brief, if the United
the Far East was described as the
States is determined to assume a
result of Japan's effort to esta-
strong attitude toward the Axis
blish herself in a position where
Powers in general, and is deter-
she can dominate the entire
mined to resort to ceitain meas-
western Pacific. "Her leaders,"
ure of assistance to those nations
Secretary Hull continued, "have
which are fighting against the
openly declared their determina-
Axis Powers, it is far better that
tion to achiev and maintain that
the American Government ex-
position by force of arms and
pre:s in no muddled terms the
thus to make themselve: masters
precise reasons why it has been
so moved.
of an area containing almost one
half of the entire population of
From Secretary Hull's remarks
the world."
and numerous statements from
By these charges Secietary of
other American officials from the
State Hull would place on Japan's
President down, it is clear that
shoulders full rponsibility for
American opposition to the Axis
the present plight of the world,
Powers springs primarily from
the starting point being the
the American Government's con-
Manchurian Incident of 1931.
viction that they are aggressors
Moreover, he has completely re-
who have wilfully ignored and
jected all Japanese official con-
violated certain treaties and
tentions as to the aims and pur-
plinciples of international law
poses of the Manchurian Incident,
upon which the American Gov-
the present conflict in China, and
ernment believes that world
the proposed New Order of East
peace and security depend. In
Asia. His remarks were a sweep-
other words, the American posi-
ing condemnation of armed ag-
tion is based upon a broad, moral
gression on the part of the Axis
conception; it is not one of op-
Powers and Japan in particular
position to the Axis Powers per
and an equally sweeping rejection
se, but one based on the belief
of all claims advanced to justify
that these Powers are aggressors.
their military and naval activi-
There is no need to take excep-
ties.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
tion to this condemnation of ag-
gression, provided the shoe fits.
In pursuing this effort to de-
Unfortunately, however. Secre-
flect the Soviet Union from the
tary Hull did not make hi; charg's
Axis. the American Government
sufficiently embracing: there are
has overlooked the fact that Mos-
other feet on which the shoes will
cow thinks and act- solely in
certainly fit which were regret-
teims of what happens to best
tably omitted fi om the Secre-
serve Moscow's interests at the
tary's att: mpt to point out by
moment. Neither omissions of
name and number those to whom
criticism nor the severest con-
the charge of aggression was ap-
demnation will influence the cal-
plicable. Berlin was quick to seize
culating leaders of the Kremlin.
upon this glaring inconsist:ney.
If it best serves Soviet interests
to side with the Axis. Dictator
Although official comment has as
Stalin will do  o: if the Soviet
y t been withheld. unoflicial Ger-
Union can gain greater advan-
man souices pointed out the
tages by opposing the Axis. it
manner in which S cretary Hull's
will take that course. For years
broadside skilfully circumvented
Chanc llor Hitler and the Nazis
any mention of the Soviet Union,
hurled their imprecations at Mos-
and added that "either he 1egard-
cow, but when Moscow found an
ed that as a matter of such im-
opportunity to piofit by close ties
portance that silence was best or
with Germany, the recriminations
else it would seem as if he re-
of yesterday were automatically
garded it as a hot brick which he
forgotten. The United States
has no wish to handle before the
will gain nothing by compromis-
eyes of the American public."
ing its sound moral position in
Much to our regret, we mu:t con-
an effort to court the dubiou-
cede the validity of the Nazi jab.
favors of Mo cow.
On more than one occasion
We feel that Secretary Hull
(Aug. 31 and Sept. 14, 1940) Ja-
committed a tactical error when
pan Ntws-Week has expres-ed its
he emphasized. Japan's aggies-
disapproval of recent attempt to
sion and rass d over Soviet ag-
sidetrack the broad, moral con-
gression without a word éf re-
ceptions of American diplomacy
proof. The fact that Berfin was
in favor of expedient methods
able to makethis incónsistency
more in keeping with the policies
the point of an effective stab at
of those Powers the United
American diplomacy is of minor
States so royndly condemns. This
consideration.More serious
has been particularly true in the
damage lies in the fact that such
case of American diplomacy to-
an omission c ments in the Ja-
waid the Soviet Union. If Ger-
pmese mind /a conviction that
many, Italy and Japan are aggres-
the United States is ignoring
sors. how can the United States
realities and is basing its policy
eliminate the Soviet Union from
toward Japan primarily upon
this category after the recent
nti-Japanese séntiment rather
Moscow-Berlin.partition of Po-
han upon the actual issues which
land, the Soviet assault on Fin-
have brought, 'about this high
land, the unwarranted extinction
tate of tension. American
of th? Baltic :tates, and the carv-
spokesmen,haye insisted that
ing up of Rumania in which Mos-
American opposition to some of
cow got its share?
Japan's policies and actions is not
The fact of the matter is that
the result of an emotional, anti-
the distinetion cannot be made,
Japanese sentiment, but with Ja-
but that the American Govern-
pan so set upon the righteousness
ment, in an attempt to wean the
of her cause, it is difficult enough
Soviet Union away from the Axis,
to convince Japanese opinion that
is playing up to Moscow, but at
this is so. Secretary Hull's
the same time gravely compromis-
statement has regrettably made
ing its previous conceptions of a
the task even more difficult.
broad, moral basis for interna-
In drafting any catalog of
tional security. Such an incon-
aggression, the American Gov-
sistency seriously jeopardizes the
ernment can ill afford to make
effectiveness of America's claims
fish of some aggressors and fowl
and contentions toward those
of others.
Powers which it has named
aggressors. There cannot be two
kinds of aggression, one which
America must condemn and one
which, for expedieney's sake, it
can condone.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408 dated February 28, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
This vigorous inteipellation
TOKYO, JAPAN, FEB. 1, 1941
physical attempt to legitimatize
and the Government's responses
Japanese domination of Eastern
Understanding Japan
are a most wholesome sign at this
Asia under the guise of assuring
troubled moment. Painful as the
Asiatic welfare by the expulsion
Those who have been led to be-
cxpericnce may be to some, it
of Western influences and the
lieve that Japan has become com-
nevertheless demonstiates that
sub:titution of Japanese influ-
the age of constructive thinking,
pletely engulfed in the totalitarian
ences therefor. It regards this
tidal wave will find cause fo.
intelligent debate, and rational
New Order as an effort to make
reflection in the Diet proceedings
discussion has not altogether ex-
political capital out of an Asia
of Monday (27). At least the
pired under the deadening weight
for the Asiatic appeal, while the
critici-m of Government policies
element of free speech and free
of totalitarian physical and in-
tellectual 1egimentation. If more
corollary of the New Order, the
so-called Co-Prosperity Sphere,
—those diabolical manifestations
of Japan's pre:ent problems were
criticizcd and discussed in this
the limits of which Japanese
of parliamentary government so
leadership has declined to define,
abhorrent to the totalitalian way
effective manner, satiefactory
is generally accepted as a device
sclutions might not be nearly so
—were not conspicuou- by their
by which the scope of Japanese
absence. Not since the celebrated
remote as they are today.
domination under the New Order
Regardless of the motives
Saito case of the last Diet ses-
theory can be extended indefini-
which inspired Mr. Akaike's
sion has a member launched such
frontal as auit on the policies of
tely as circumstances and oppor-
a devastating attack on the Gov-
tunities allow. And Americans
the Konoye Cabinet and its
ernment, when Mr. Atsushi
generally believe, too, that they
Akaike of the House of Peers,
alleged want of responsibility, it
have a clear understanding of
nust be conced.d that this in-
for its program of planned
took the Konoye Cabinet to task
some of the significant shoit-
terpellator has touched upon
what Japan means by promoting
world peace and a new world
economy and direct d forceful
comings which have handicapped
order through political associa-
criticism at the Cabinet's acclaim-
all wartime Cabinets in Japan;
tion with Germany and Italy;
ed masterpiece of political re-
namely. the failure of these
namely, that the 'Tripartite Alli-
form, the Imperial Rule Assis-
Cabinets to set forth in clear
ance is designed to expedite the
tance Association.
language the sum and substance
fall of the British Empire by
In the course of his castigation,
of their policies and aims, so that
forestalling American assistance
Mr. Akaike deplored the tendeney
the people who are called upon to
so that Japan can claim from her
he noted for Government officials
make sacrifices for their realiza-
partners a substantial share of the
to evade responsibility, pointed
tion may understand why such
spoils.
to the dismal failure of the new
Whether the American apprai-
sacrifiets are demanded.
economic structure, and pointedly
sals of Japan's aims and policies
This, of course, is Japan's
charged that the Imperial Rule
are correct is of minor impor-
affair, not ours. But in their in-
Assistance Asociation bore a
tante. Of more concern is the
ternational aspects we feel en-
striking resemblance to the
fact that Americans (and others)
titled to claim the right to point
Marxist-inspired structural or-
cut that the studied generalities
have been led to make such esti-
ganization of the Third Inter-
mations. And here we are con-
which have surrounded most Ja-
nationale, producing a chart of
vinced that the Japanese Gov-
panese pronouncements of policy
the Communist body to fortify
ernment's own explanations of its
his vensational contention."I
and cxplanations of action have
policies and actions have in good
not been caleulated to inspire the
cannot for a moment tolerate
understanding of Japan's posi-
part been respon-ible for that
the attitude of officials who
tion which Japanese leadership
uneasiness of mind which makes
suppress all expression of popu-
has so con-istently maintained
others give to a thing its worst
lar opinion and yet mete out
must be understood as a basis for
pcssible interpretation. Much of
punishment to people who quite
what Japan has done in recent
international dealings with this
inadvertently commit minor eco-
years and most of the explana-
country.
nomic offenses," Mr. Akaike re-
tions Japanese leadership has of-
In regard to the present tension
portedly declared. "One cannot
with the United States, it is often
fered have given others little rea-
escape the conclusion that the
son to feel at case and consider-
maintained that America does not
existence of such a state of thinge
understand Japan's true inten-
able cause to be alarmed. And
should be laid to dfects in the
tions. As some cynic has point-
to Americans (and others) who
laws of the land as well as to
ed out, however, perhaps America
now profess such an unflattering
defects in the cmployes of the
understands too well Japan's
understanding of Japan's aims
Government."
three aims. Certain it is that
and policies, it must be recogniz-
Premier Konoye himself under-
the large bulk of American
ed that the flexible vagueness of
took to reply to this severe con-
opinion has a very definite idea
Japanese definitions of policy has
demnation of his Cabinet's poli-
of what Japan's aims are, incor-
done much to arouse in their
cies and actions, but it was evi-
rect though it may be. It looks
minds the di-turbing su:picion
dent that the explanations offered
upon the New Structure, euphe-
that Japan harbors far-reaching
failed to satisfy the interpellator
mistically styled as a movement
ambitions so inimical to the posi-
any more than the Government's
pievious generalities designed to
assist the Throne, as a specious
by which the people can better
be clothed in terms no one can
tion of others that they had best
reveal the substance and ef-
understand.
ficacy of the so-called New Strue-
sham to deprive the people of a
If this is happily not the case,
ture. Of particular signiicance,
voice through political parties
as Japanese spokesmen have so
however, was Premier Konoye's
frank admission that the Govern-
and the Diet, to camouflage an
effort to concentrate all power in
often insisted, Japan would do
well to dispel such suspicions
ment's nned economy ha, thus
the hands of a totalitarian dicta-
once and for all by explaining her
far proved a failure.
torship on Nazifascist models in
deliberate preparation for an ag-
aims and policies in a manner
that leaves no room for doubt,
gressive forward policy against
not only in the minds of her own
the alleged enemies of Japan.
people (as Monday's interpellator
The great bulk of American
levealed) but in the minds of
opinion, too, has very definite
those toward whom Japan pro-
ideas of the purpose of the pro-
fesses friendship and from whom
posed New Order. It regards
she expects understanding.
this formula as a politico-meta-

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408 dated February 28,
1941, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, FEB. 8, 1941
For one thing it is clear that
G.rmany views with no little
Soon after the fall of France,
Words of Wrath
alarm the impending pas age of
while the invasion of England
the lea-e-lend bill. The vast
was regarded as a virtual fait
A vatiety of interpretations
amount of matetial assistance
accompli, Germany was convinced
have been pla ed upon the addre-s
thi- I gislation will make
that effective American support
of Chancellor Adolf Hitl r Janu
available to Great Britain is in
to Britain could b forestalled
any So in which the Fuchrer was
it elf sufficient cause of concern:
'nce and for all by the inclusion
said to have delivered an implied
out of even gr ater importane
of Japan in an Axis Tripartite
warnng to the I nited Stat
is the fact that the drafting of
Alliance. Develepments since last
that every American ve-sel with
this biil. the great -ui port it now
Sept mber, when the alliance was
in range of German guns and
receives, and it: ultim,ate nact-
igned. have demonstrated the
torpedo's would be sunk if the
ment and enforcement are blunt
utter failure of this attempt to
United States persists in shipping
evid nce of America's undisguis-
thr,aten the United States into
aid to Great Britain. Next day a
ed opposition toward the Axis
passive resignation. American
spoke-man of the Wilhelmst rasse
Powers in general and Germany
Fa: Eastern policy and American
att mpted to clarify the Chancel-
in particular and America's un-
efforts to assist Britain have been
loi's threat by stating that Ger-
compremising determination to
naff cted by thi military
many will not snk ndi crimi-
(Xtend all possible assistan e to
alliance and the threats from all
nately all ships in the Atlantic.
the nation- fighting the Axis
ends of the Axis which have ac-
though all ves-els entering the
Powers, e-pecially Biitain.
companied it.
war zone will b, fair prey to
Nazi calculations unquestion-
Thus today Chancellor Hitler
Nazi air and submarine attacks.
ably failed to take into account
ha: come to the crossroad. He
Just what inspited this sudden
the sp.ed with which American
must either soon d feat Britain
qualification is not exactly clear.
isolationi:t sentiment was to be
or in turn be defeated himself,
but the fact remain: that Chan-
overcome. Now, with final vie-
and th, month; which have pass-
cellor Hitler's earlier thr at was
tory in Europe till a remote
ed since his triumphs of la-t year
no casual utterance, wa; intended
hope, the G rran High Command
bring the disturbing realization
to be taken at its face value, was
suddenly finds itself confronted
that a Britain being inereasingly
deliberately set foith for a de-
with the lim prospect of un-
armed and outfitted by th: United
finite purpose.
limited American support to Bri-
States more effectively than ever
In attempting to discover ju-t
tain on a scale and in a manner
blocks his path to world dominion.
what lies behind the Nazi chal-
which w re only fantastic pos-
In thi: light. Chane. llor Hit-
lenge, one mu-t hold in mind the
sibilitie: a few months ago. Just
ler's speech of Friday (30), has
scope and purport of America's
a- the German war progiam of
been widely interpreted as noth-
'aid to Britain' policy as embodi-
Wilhelm 11 was predicated on the
ing more than bluff, a de-perate
ed in the lease-lend bill now be-
rash assumption that Germany's
attempt to intimidate the United
fore Congtess, which is obviously
unrestrict d submarine warfare
States so that the American Gov-
the source of Berlin's displeasur.
would never bring America into
ernment, for fear of war, will
and concern. This legislation, it
the last conflict, so today the
hesitate to extend to Britain the
should be noted, does not autho-
German war progiam of the Nazi
full measure of assistance which
rize the President to send Amer-
dictatorship pinned its hope in
is now contemplated under the
ican vessels to Britain; nor does
victory on the assumption that.
lease-lend bill. Such may be the
it permit the use of American
the United States would never
ca'e, but we prefer, however, to
waiships for th convoying of
commit itself to such a full dress
giv: Chancellor Hitler credit for
American or British ships across
progiam of material assistance.
recognizing, after his experience
the Atlantic. It is difficult to
/There is thus an unmistakable
with American rea tion to the
:ee, therefore, just how the Nazi
element of frustration in Chan-
Tripartit? Alliance, that the
threat is applicable to the situa-
cellor Hitler's supercharged chal-
United States is no longer moved
tion as it is today. There is, of
lenge. All has not gone well with
by bluff, threats, or challenges
course, the possibility that at a
Gelman war plan: since the fall
from whichever quart r they may
subsequent date American assis-
of France last summer. /The
come.
tance to Britain may assume
knock-out blow wasn't delivered,
It would seem, therefore, that
proportions and forms which
for literally and figuratively
ther? is something far more sub-
might afford Chancellor Hitler
Chancellor Hitler missed the boat
tle behind the anxious Chancel-
opportunity to make good his
acloss the English Channel.
lor's words of wrath. It has now
boast. That, however, is strictly
'Sinc: then there has been a pain-
become clear to the Nazi dictator
a future possibility, and if and
ful denouement. Terror-raids
that th: much-acclaimed Tripar-
when such form: of assistance
over England only solidified Bri-
tite Alliance, so wid:ly advanced
should actually materialize, Chan-
tain': opposition and determina-
as an instrument to restrict the
c.llor Hitler can have the satis-
tion to cru:-h the Nazifascists.
scope of the European war, is
faction of doing what he can to
The much publicized invasion
proving of virtually no value so
counteract them, for by then the
plan was repeatedly announced
long as the treaty is not brought
United States would unquestion-
and repeatedly postponed. Italy,
into operation.With American
ably be in the war as a full b.l-
G.rmany's ally in the Mediter-
assistance to Britain now about
ligerent.
ranean, failed miserably to hold
to shift into high gear, it has be-
But as the situation now stands,
up its end of the Axis. The
come imperative for Germany to
Chancellor Hitler has merely
Fascist empire in Africa, the
discover sone means by which the
raised an issue for the purpo:e of
outhern poitals of Premier
TripartiteAlliancecan be
finding a target for his threats.
Mussolini's Mare Nostrum, is
brought into force, for at this
It is then quite natural to ask
being torn to shreds by
critical juncture onfy a war be-
just why the Fuehrer has found
a totally unexpect:d British of-
tween Japan and the United
it so imperative to seek such an
fensive, while in Albania the
States can effectively offset the
issue at which he could direct his
Fascist campaign has proved a
assistance the American Govern-
bellicose remarks.
costly and bitter failure. Today
ment is now determined to pro-
Germany is compelled to divert
vide Great Britain.
its forces, to occupy. Rumania and
to rush reinforcements to the
Italians in a desperate effort to
preserve some sort of front in the
Mediterranean.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Contrary to Nazi expectations.
It is to be hoped that the Gov-
current Japanese-American fric-
ernments of Japan and the United
tion in th、 Pacific has not led to
Stat s will grasp the concealed
an open break. The responsible
motive in Chancellor. Hitler's
statesmen in both countries are
latest display of pyrotechnics.
utilizing th, few means remain-
that they will hoth fully mpre-
ing at their di-po-al to avert
hend the mann r in which Nazi
trouble and to b ing relation:
planning i attempting to build
back to normal. Despite o posi-
up from nothing a ca e of Amer-
tion trom certain quarters. the
ean aggresston again-t Ger-
Japan se Government named as
mans which warrants Japan's
its new envoy to Washington a
military and naval assistance
man known fof hi friend hip for
under th: Tripartite Alliance.
the United tate: and despite
In pres nting these facts, we
prevailing t nsion, the Ameri an
are cognizant of the possibility
Government has made particular
that there are some who may take
eflorts to accord this friendly en
eeption to our remark, that
voy a most cor dial reception as
official prot -te may be raised in
witne s the -pecial scort of wat-
ce:tain quarters against what
ships provided at Honolulu.
may be charged an unwarranted
Neither the people of Japan nor
and biased discus-ion of a topic
the United States want war, and
with which we should not be per-
there is no valid reason why a
mitt: d to deal. But regardle-s of
war must be forced upon them,
su.h possibiliti's we believe
regardless of the political crises
it our obligation. as consist-
which may engage the two Gov-
ent with the polity Japan
ernments.
News-Week' has followed since
The Nazifascists, therefore, are
it: establishment. to do all in
now anxious to find a means by
it: power to prevent what we
which the Tripartite Alliance can
regard th worst possible calamity
be invoked, so that the war in the
a war between Ja an and the
Pacific. upon whi h they have
United Stat s. If in making this
thu- far gambl d in vain, may
humble effort to preserve peace
definitely help their cause. By
between these two great nations.
rai-ing what is at present the
we should run counter to the
utteily extran ous question of
calculations of those to whom
the necessity for Germany to at-
a Japanese-American war, with
tack American vesels which may
all its suffering and futility, is
hypothetically be used to ship or
just another move on the che:s-
convoy supplies to Britain. Chan-
board of Weltpolitik, we may at
cellor Hitler appears to be at-
least claim a genuine regard for
tempting to lay the foundation of
the future welfare of Japan and
a case upon which he can invoke
a sincere hope for the peace of
the Tripartite Alliance and thus
th? Pacific which art not theirs.
call upon Japan for the military
and naval support which he now
could so conveniently use.
It is ridiculous to assume that
Chancellor Hitler would threaten
to take such action merely for the
sake of bringing the United States
into the war as a full belligerent
on the side of Britain, a develop-
ment which would prove far more
disastrous to Germany than
America's present assistance as a
nonbelligerent. Butwhat Chan-
cellor Hitler can do to his own
advantage by virtue of the Tri-
partite Alliance is to force an
issue with the United States in
the Atlantic that will compel Ja-
pan to wage a war against the
United States in the ·Pacific or
default on the stipulations of the
Tripartite Alliance, a thing which
Japan will never do. This, we be-
lieve, is what lies behind the
threats the Chancellor has raised
over issues which at present exist
only in his own mind.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408 dated February 28,
1941, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, FEB. 15, 1941
ment nor an explanation in terms
which would indicate in black and
Japan's Obligation
white exactly what Japan expects
to a crue from her ambitious pro-
At this dark moment when the
gram and exactty what she (x-
p.oples of two great nations
pects to accord to others. The
anxioushy await from hour to
cat, ha- thu、 far been stattd in
hour what an inserutable Destiny
vague generalities, in nice-
holds in store for them. it is with
sounding. word, prophecies of
a feeling of profound gratitude
an Asia which will be uplifted.
that we
noe the extreme
whih will be given a well being
cordiality which characterized
and a prosperity infinitely
the reception the United state-
grander than anything it has en-
accorded Admiral Kichisaburo
joyed in the past. America. too,
Nomuira, Japan's well-chos.n en-
hopes that Asia will arrive at
voy to Ameri a.
such a goal. America. too. does
This wholesome di-play of cor-
not endorse the semi-colonial
diality far transcends custemary
status of much of this part of the
manife-tations of diplomatic
world which Japan now so hearti-
court sy. Neither the special
ly deplores. And to give meaning
de-troyer escorts provided by the
to its attitude on this question,
American Navy at Honolulu and
the United States has gone the
San Francisco for the 'Kamakura
length to confer independence
Maru' which carricd Admiral
upon one dominion-the Philip-
Nomura to the United States nor
pin: Islands- which has hitherto
the 19-gun salute from Fort Win-
labored under the so-called disad-
field Scott which announced his
vantage- of a colonial status. As
arrival at San Fran isco ar.
fai as we are aware, no other
usually 1 rovided for the reception
Power holding colonies in Estern
of a diplomatic envoy. It was
Asia has thus far been mov d to
net entirely to an Ambas-ador or
accord any of their possessions
to an Admiral that th,se evi-
a position omparable to the one
dences of friendship were so
of ind pendence which the Philip-
whole-h: artedly extended. They
pines will enjoy after 1945.
were intended more for Kichi-
Yes. America agiees in princi-
saburo Nomura, as a representa-
pl: with many of the finely-
tive of a friendly nation, who -til
worded aims which Japan has
believes that peac between Ja-
e:poused for the well being and
pan and America can be preserv-
betterment of Eastern Asia. But
ed and for those of kindred
it may be an inexcusable short-
thought in hi; homeland who
coming characteristio of Amer-
were responsible for his appoint-
ican realism to put more em-
ment to this important mission.
phasis upon action than words,
They confirm, as word cannot,
to think more in terms of the
the fact that the United States
A.B.C.'s of practical application
still holds hope of a peaceful
than in genelal theories. It is.
solution and is grateful of the op-
p:rhaps because of this emphasis
portunity Admiral Nomura's pre-
on realities, on action rather than
sence in Washington will provide
words, that the United States has
for the realization of this hope.
thus far failed to se eye to eye
We cannot fathom, of course,
with Japan on the broad program
the exact aims of the Japanese
which the latier now envisions
Government in the present crisis.
for the future welfare of Eastern
We are convinced, however, that
Asia.
the great bulk of American
It is only naturally, however,
opinion—both official and private
that the United States should a-
—is anxious for peace, is anxious
sume such an attitude. It is Ja-
to achieve a settlement which will
pan who is/asking America to
be mutually acceptable and satis-
subscribe to certain changes in
factory to both parties. We say
the present status of this part of
both parties, for there is a grow-
th? world, and Af such endorse-
ing suspicion, however ill-founded
ment is asked of the United
it may be, that from the Ja-
States, it is nly logical for that
panese point of view only one
country to expect the program
settlement is possible; namely,
which Japan proposes to be stat-
one which embraces full Amer-
ed in clear ehough térms for the
ican acceptance of all claims Ja-
United States to know just how
pan has put forward, which for
much it will gain or how much it
the sake of convenience wé may
will be called upon to sacrifice by
interpret as the New Orter and
its acceptance. Suppose the
the Greater East Asia Co-Pros-
United States had decided to
perity Sphere.
*ponsor some sweeping program
Just what these claims pre-
of change in a region in which
cisely mean has never been re-
Japan claimed certain important
vealed by Japan. Yet, there has
and legitimate interests. Would
been no end of pronouncements
not Japan then expect the United
and explanations from Japanese
'States to reveal in a manner
spokesmen as to the scope and
which Japan could understand
aims of what Japan desires. But
just what she would lose or just
there has never been a pronounce-
what she would gain by the ac-
ceptance of such changes?

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408 dated February 28,
1941, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, FEB. 15, 1941
ment nor an explanation in terms
Japan's Obligation
which would indicate in black and
white exactly what Japan expects
to accrue from her ambitious pro-
At this dark moment when the
gram and exactly what she ex-
poples of two great nations
pects to accord to others. The
anxiously await from hour to
case has thus far been stated in
hour what an inserutable Destiny
vague generalities, in nice-
holds in store for them, it is with
sounding, wordy prophecies of
a feeling of profound gratitude
an Asia which will be uplifted,
that we noie the extreme
which will be given a well being
cordiality which
 characterized
and a prosperity infinitely
the reception the United State-
grander than anything it has en-
accorded Admiral
Kichisaburo
joyed in the past. America, too,
Nomura, Japan's well-chos-n en-
hopes that Asia will arrive at
voy to Ameri a.
such a goal. America. too, does
This wholesome di-play of cor-
not endorse the semi-colonial
diality far transoends custemars
status of much of this part of the
manife-tation: of diplomatic
world which Japan now so hearti-
court s Neither the special
Iy deplore And to give meaning
de-troyer esconts provided by the
to its attitude on this que-tion.
American Navy at Honolulu and
the Umited States has gone the
San Francisco for the 'Kamakura
length to confer independense
Marn which carri,d Admiral
upon one dominion-the Philip-
Nomura to the United States nor
pin Islands which has hitherto
the 19-gun salite from Fort Win-
labored under the so-called disad-
field Scoit which announced hi-
vantage of a colonial status. As
arrival at San Fran isco ar
fa: as we are awar. no other
usuall,  rox ded for the reception
Power holding colonie: in Estern
of a diplomatic envoy. It was
Asia has thus far been mov d to
net entirely to an Ambas-ador or
accord any of their possessions
to an Admiral that th.se evi-
a position omparable to the one
dences of friendship were so
of ind. pendence which the Philip-
whole-h: artedly extended. They
pines will enjoy after 1945.
were intended more for Kichi-
Yes, America agiees in princi-
saburo Nomura, as a representa-
pl: with many of the finely-
tive of a friendly nation, who -tiil
worded aims which Japan has
believes that peac. between Ja-
e:poused for the well being and
pan and America can be preserv-
betterment of Eastern Asia. But
d and for those of kindred
it may be an inexcusable short-
thought in hi: homeland who
coming characteristic of Amer-
were responsible for his appoint-
ican realism to put more em-
ment to this important mission.
phasis upon action than words,
They confirm, as word cannot,
to think more in terms of the
the fact that the United States
A.B.C.'s of practical application
still holds hope of a peaceful
than in genelal theories. It is
solution and is grateful of the op-
p. rhaps because of this emphasis
portunity Admiral Nomura's pre-
on realities, on action rather than
sence in Washington will provide
words, that the United States has
for the realization of this hope.
thus far failed to see eye to eye
We cannot fathom, of course,
with Japan on the broad program
the exact aims of the Japanese
which the latter now envisions
Government in the present crisis.
for the future welfare of Eastern
We are (onvineed. however, that
Asia.
the great bulk of American
It is only naturally, however,
opinion--both official and private
that the United States should as-
-is anxious for peace, is anxious
sume such an attitude. It is Ja-
to achieve a settlement which will
pan who is/asking America to
be mutually acceptable and satis-
subscribe to certain changes in
factory to both parties. We say
the present status of this part of
both parties, for there is a grow-
th? world, and if such endorse-
ing suspicion, however ill-founded
ment is asked of the United
it may be. that from the Ja-
States, it is only logical for that
panese point of view only one
country to xpect the program
settlement is possible; namely,
which Japan proposes to be stat-
one which embraces full Amer-
ed in clear ehough terms for the
ican acceptance of all claims Ja-
United States to'know just how
pan has put forward. which for
much it will gain or how much it
the sake of convenience we may
will be called upon to sacrifice by
interpret as the New Order and
its acceptance. Suppose the
the Greater East Asia Co-Pros-
United States had decided to
peritySphere.
ponsor some sweeping program
Just what these claims pre-
of change in a region in which
cisely mean has never been re-
Japan claimed certain important
vealed by Japan. Yet, there has
and legitimate interests. Would
been no end of pronouncements
not Japan then expect the United
and explanations from Japanese
'States to reveal in a manner
spokesmen as to the scope and
which Japan could understand
aims of what Japan desires. But
just what she would lose or just
there has never been a pronounce-
what she would gain by the ac-
ceptance of such changes?

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
If any impartial analysis is
Even at this apparently futile
made of the diplomatic exchanges
moment, we are convinced that
which have taken place between
there is still a way out, provided
Japan and the United States in
both parties are given the oppor-
recent years, we believe it would
tunity to know each others minds.
be fair to claim that Japan at
The means to achieve this all-im-
present has a far better under-
portant understanding are still
tanding of what Amerixa desires
available. United States Ambas-
in rgard to Pacific affair- than
sador Joseph C. Grew has never
America has of what Japan de-
lost an opportunity to convey to
sires.
la an an uncolored pre entation
It is for this reason that we
of the American position and the
believe it incumb nt upon Ad-
American attitude towa:d this
miral Nomura. as Ambassador to
country and its policies. This has
Wa-hington, to convey to the
been no easy task, for it requires
United States in no uncertain
more than mere diplomatic glib
terms precisely what Japan de-
to pres nt realities as distasteful
sires and precisely what Japan
and as unplea-ant as has been the
is willing to accord to the United
arduous a signment which has
States and others. We do not
fallen to Ambassador Grew's lot.
pr tend that the presentation of
It would hav been far easier and
Japan's case in such a clear way
perhaps more in keeping with
will by itself make for a settle-
diplomatic tiadition in its less
ment. Perhaps Japan's real in-
commendable sense to have gloss-
tention are of such a sweeping
ed over these disturbing realities,
and uncompromising nature that
to have clothed them in after-
their revelation will only make
dinner pleasantries. Ambassador
a settlement all th. more remote,
Grew. however, chose the hard
if not impossible. But we should
way, but what was the only
not overlook the desirable pos-
honorable way as a really patrio-
sibility that Japan's true aims
ti: American and as a really
are of such a nature that they
sincere friend of Japan.
wiil provide loom, for a mutually
If America has been willing to
satisfactory settlement.
go this far on behalf of peace in
Nevertheless. further diploma-
te Pacific, surcly it is not un-
tic tr. atment of the problem is
reasonable of the United States
futile unles the-e claims of Ja-
to expect of Japan som? equally
pan are revealed for what they
con rete explanations of its poli-
are worth, for no more or no less.
cies and attitude. We believe
America has already stated its
that Admiral Nomura can match
position in language which can-
Ambassador Grew as a patriot
not be misunderstood or miscon-
and as a real friend of the coun-
strued. If the Japanese Govern-
try to which he is accredited
ment, therefore, believes that re-
when it comes to discussing such
gular diplomatic negotiations are
questions with the sincerity and
still possible, it is up to Japan to
the franknes: they deserve. We
lay its own cards on the table,
hope, therfore, that the Japanese
just as the United States has
Government will sanction and
done.
support such a course, as the
This is the grave responsibility
American Government has done
which now falls on Admiral
with its own Ambassador here.
Nomura. That America is will-
If Japan also lays its cards on
ing to listen to what the new Am-
the table, may there not still be a
bassador has to say is self-evi-
way out? It i: Japan's obligation
dent from the unusually cordial
to make this final effort.
reception he has been given. In
fact, America at this moment is
more than willing to listen; it
expects Admiral Nomura to give
an understandable explanation of
what Japan wants, and if the new
Ambassador does so, the United
States is fully prepared to deal
with the question in an honest
manner and in a spirit of fair-
ness.
But neither Admiral
Nomura nor anyone else can
henceforth expect the United
States to accept as a basis for
friendly negotiations the vague
generalities which have hereto-
fore constituted the explanations
of what Japan wants for herself
and what Japan expects others
to yield.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408
dated February 28, 1941, from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, FEB. 22, 1941
Japan by now perhaps realizes
that its alliançe with Germany and
Sales Talk
Italy has had a det riorating ef-
fect on relations with the United
When Japan concluded a mili-
States. Japan no doubt realizes
tary alliance with Germany and
also that the United Stat's in the
Italy last Septembet, w express-
execution of its policies toward
ed the hope the Japanese and
Earope is unmoved by the threat
American Governments would
of a Japanese-American war as
endeavor to find a way to continue
implied in this alliance.
In
negotiations on those Pacifie and
every tespect, the treaty has
Far Eastern problems which have
caused the United States to stif-
created such a gulf between the
fen its attitude toward Japan
two nations.
Unfortunately.
on the ground that this was an
bowever, Japan has announced
unnecessarily hostile gesture to-
to the world and to the United
ward America. the ve y kind of
States in particular that this al-
gesture which the United states
liance constitut s the corner-
would not have made toward
stone of her diplomacy, which is
Japan.
to imply, of course, that all hav-
It is unquestionably because of
ing dealings with this country
these considerations that Japan-
must accept the Tripartite Alli-
ese spokesmen and others in re-
ance and Japan's obligations
cent weeks have appeared to be
ther under as the determinant
making stienuous efforts to sell
factor in any understanding.
to the United States the idea that
It should now be clear to Japan
the Tripartite Alliance is a logi-
that the United States has very
cal, reasonable, and not necessari-
definite opinions about the pur-
ly alarming measure to which
pose of this alliance and the rea-
American opinion has no just
sons which inspired Japan to con-
cause to become a: oust d. The
clude it. As we have (mphasized
effort is being made to convince
before, American opinion is con-
the United States that th: pact
vinced that the Tripartite Pact
is not aimed at America, is not
is aimed principally at the United
a threatening gesture. is not ir-
States in an eflort to forestall
reconcilable with a satisfactory
American participation in the
settlement of Japanese-American
European
War, or possibly even
differences.
American
assistance to Britain
There can only be one answer
on such
a scale that would
to this. Why, then, was the
guarantee
a British victory.
treaty concluded in the first
American opinion, too, cannot
place? Why was it necessary for
escape the conclusion that the
Japan to go so far out of her way
Tripartite Pact is a warlike in-
to bring such an extraneous iszue
strument, from the simple but
into the Japanese-American prob-
plain fact that the treaty con-
lem? Unfortunately, the logic
tains military provisions. There
Japan has employed to explain
can also be no doubt that the
to America the true purpose of
Unit'd States feels that its pre-
the alliance, the arguments
vious issues with Japan cannot be
which have been resorted to to
settled upon the basis of accept-
convince the United States of its
ing this alliance as the governing
harmless nature only give the im-
factor in Japanese-American re-
pression that Japan herself has
lations, and this is primarily res-
become disturbed by the action
ponsible for the present diploma-
she has taken and now realizes.
tic deadlock between the two
perhaps too late what a serious
countries.
stumbling block this alliance is
By what has taken place in
to any sort of understanding with
the United States since last fall,
the United States.
Japan should now be fully aware
In its editorial Tuesday (18)
that the American Government
the 'Japan Times and Advertiser'
does not intend to allow the exis-
undertook to discuss the present
tence of this alliance to influence
Japanese-American problem in
or determine American policy to-
terms of the Tripartite Alliance.
ward the European War. The
Citing one American argument
United States is fully determined
that Japanese prestige has suf-
to assist Britain to whatever ex-
fered in the United States by this
tent is necessary to assure the
union with World Enemy No.
complete defeat of Germany and
1,'the paper attempts to justify
Italy. The American Govern-
Germany's present position and
ment and American opinion be-
Japan's alignment with that
lieve that what the United States
Power. "The answer of Japan
desires to do about Europan
is that Germany receives condem-
questions is no legitimate con-
nation because of the unusual
cern of Japan's. Regardless of
consequences of a military victory
the claime Japan may advance
and these always are harsh to an
under the Tripartite Alliance,
established order. It would be
American policy in this theater
fruitless to deny that Germany
is fixed.
has had to exercise forms of con-

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5408
dated February 28, 1941, from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
TOKYO, JAPAN, FEB. 22, 1941
Japan by now perhaps realizes
that its alliange with Germany and
Sales Talk
Italy has had a deteriorating ef-
fect on relations with the United
When Japan concluded a mili-
States. Japan no doubt realizes
tary alliance with Germany and
also that the United States in the
Italy last September, we express-
execution of its policies toward
ed the hope the Japanese and
Europe is unmoved by the threat
American Governments would
of a Japanese-American war as
endeavor to find a way to continue
implied in this alliance. In
negotiations on those Pacific and
every respect, the treaty has
Far Eastern problems which have
caused the United States to stif-
created such a gulf between the
fen its attitude toward Japan
two nations.
Unfortunately,
on the ground that this was an
however, Japan has announced
unnecessarily hostile gesture to-
to the world and to the United
ward America, the very kind of
States in particular that this al-
gesture which the U'nited states
liance constitut s the corner-
would not have made toward
stone of her diplomacy, which is
Japan.
to imply. of course, that all hav-
It is unquestionably because of
ing dealing- with this country
there consid rations that Japan-
must accept the Tripartite Alli-
ese spokesmen and others in re-
ance and Japan's obligations
cent weeks have appsared to be
ther under as the determinant
making stienuous efforts to sell
factor in any understanding.
to the United States the idea that
It should now be clear to Japan
the Tripartite Alliance is a logi-
that the United States has very
cal, reasonable, and not necessari-
definite opinions about th: pur-
ly alarming measure to which
pose of this alliance and the rea-
American opinion hás no just
sons which inspired Japan to con-
cause to become a: ous d. The
clude it. As we have (mphasized
effort is being made to convince
before, American opinion is con-
the United States that th pact
vinced that the Tripartite Pact
is not aimed at America. is not
is aimed principally at the United
a threatening gesture, is not ir-
States in an effort to forestall
reconcilable with a satisfactory
American participation in the
settlement of Japanese-American
European War, or possibly even
differences.
American
assistance to Britain
There can only be one answer
on such
a scale that would
to this. Why, then, was the
guarantee
a British victory.
treaty concluded in the first
American opinion, too. cannot
place? Why was it necessary for
escape the conclusion that the
Japan to go so far out of her way
Tripartite Pact is a warlike in-
to bring such an extraneous issue
strument, from the simple but
into the Japanese-American prob-
plain fact that the treaty con-
lem? Unfortunately. th: logic
tains military provisions. There
Japan has employed to explain
can also be no doubt that the
to America the true purpose of
Unit d States feels that its pre-
the alliane, the arguments
vious issues with Japan cannot be
which have been resorted to to
settled upon the basis of acept-
convince the United States of its
ing this alliance as the governing
harmless nature only give the im-
factor in Japanese-American re-
pression that Japan herself has
lations, and this is primar ily res-
become disturbed by the action
ponsible for the present diploma-
she has taken and now realizes.
tic deadlock between the two
perhaps too late what a serious
countries.
stumbling block this alliance is
By what has taken place in
to any sort of understanding with
the United States since last fall,
the United States.
Japan should now be fully aware
In its editorial Tuesday (18)
that the American Government
the 'Japan Times and Advertiser'
does not intend to allow the exis-
undertook to discuss the present
tence of this alliance to influence
Japanese-American problem in
or determine American policy to-
terms of the Tripartite Alliance.
ward the European War. The
Citing one American argument
United States is fully determined
that Japanese prestige has suf-
to assist Britain to whatever ex-
fered in the United States by this
tent is necessary to assure the
union with World Enemy No.
complete defeat of Germany and
1,'the paper attempts to justify
Italy. The American Govern-
Germany's present position and
ment and American opinion be-
Japan's alignment with that
lieve that what the United States
Power. "The answer of Japan
desires to do about Europ:an
is that Germany receives condem-
questions is no legitimate con-
nation because of the unusual
cern of Japan's. Regardless of
consequences of a military victory
the claims Japan may advance
and these always are harsh to an
under the 'Tripartite Alliance,
established order. It would be
American policy in this theater
fruitless to deny that Germany
is fixed.
has had to exercise forms of con-

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
trol over States with which it
ations on questions of racial dis-
desired peace and concord, but
crimination in the Oriental im-
that these were justifiable ex-
migration policies of America
pedients for which precedents
and other We:tern countries.
abound." Moreover, it is con-
And no fair-minded person. re-
tended that Germany has plans
gardless of his race or creed, can
for a future new order which are
fali to rejoice in what victories
unquestionably preferable to any
Hapan has won in her fight for
pians for the future reorganiza
racial equadity. But America
tion of Europe which Britain may
will certainly wonder how an alli-
nave in the vent of a British
ance with Nazi Germany. which
victory.
has made anti-Semiticism and
At its best, this i a labored
racial inequality th, basis of its
argument, one which must be re-
national doct:ines, can possibly
sorted to when it is n'cessaty to
further this high cause.
excuse the facts of history dur-
And finally, there is the oft-
ing the past few years on those
repeated claim that the Tripartite
shallow grounds of nee ssity and
Alliance is in the interest- of
"justifiable expedient- for whi h
world peace. As a tesult of last
precedents abound." American
we k's Pacitie crisis. the Spokes-
opinion will certainly be unim-
wan of the Board of Information
pressed with this pecalair justifi-
was moved to declare in this con-
cation for a partnership with
nection, "We want to repeat that
Cermany. It will wonder what
the purpose of the Tripartite Pact
sort of really new order can
is peaceful." But why should it
(merge out of activities in which
be necessary to point out on this
independent, states from Norway
occasion in particular that this
to occupied France, from Poland
agreementontaining military
to Rumania have been shorn of
provisions-is an instrument of
their independence, have been
p ace? Is it through fear that no
overrun with Nazi armies, and
one save its apologist can regard
have been compelled by force to
it as a peaceful measure?
b come Germany's vassals. If
Japan's continued effort to sell
this is the new order which justi-
the Tripartite Alliance as an in-
fiies Germany's position, and
strument of peace, as an aid to
thereby salvages Japan's prestige
racial equality, a; something of
in becoming allied with that
no danger to the United States, is
Power, we believe that the rest
unfortanately making the situa-
of the world which has thus far
tion worse. Ameri a has definite
(scaped participation in this new
ideas of the pui pose of this alli-
order will be doubly pleased to
ance, and what can be accomplish-
d by trying to convince Amer-
reject it. If the world condemns
ican opinion that it is something
Germany for what she has done
else? America won't and can't be-
in Europe, Japan must share
lieve arguments which are ad-
some measure of this condemna-
vanced to prove that black is
tion by association with Germany.
white. This constant attempt to
In world diplomacy, as in private
explain away American apprehen-
life, one is known and judged by
sion as a result of this álliance.
the friends he keeps.
only convinces American opinion
Fo. eignMinister
that the treaty is inimical to
Matsuoka on more than one oc-
American interests, that Japan
ca-ion has attempted to justify
knows it is so and is only trying
the Tripartite Alliance and has
to disperse this fear.
tried to convince America that
This type of sales talk on be-
this agreement holds nothing
half of how America should re-
which shouid give America cause
gard this alliance does far more
for alaim. Thus far, however,
harm than good. If Japan must
his arguments have been coldly
hav: this partnership with the
received in all American quarters
Nazifascists, we shall no longer
and his latest explanation of Ja-
question the wisdom of her
pan's motives for entering into
choice. But at the same time we
this pact will be accorded a simi-
sincerely hope that Japan's
lar reception. In answer to
statesmen and spokesmen/will not
an interpellation in the Diet
complicate further a strictly Ja-
Monday (17), the F'oreign Min-
panese-American problem which
ister reportedly emphasized once
to our mind can still be settled
more that the alliance should not
without continued reference to
be viewed as a challenge to the
pulposes of this treaty and the
Anglo-Saxon nations, for it is an
alleged benefits Americ is sup-
instrument designed to help
posed to derive from it.
achieve the principle of racial
equality.
It is regrettable indeed that
the Foreign Minister chose to
bring the question of racial
equality into his argument. No
fair-minded person can overlook
Japan's uphill fight for racial
equality in its relations with the
Western Powers, in the framing
of the Covenant of the League of
Nations, and in its trying negoti-

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
trol over States with which it
ations on questions of racial dis-
desired peace and concord, but
crimination in the Oriental im-
that these were justifable ex-
migration policies. of Americs
pedients for which precedents
and other Western countries.
abound." Moreover, it is con-
And no fair-minded person, re-
tended that Germany has plans
gardless of his race or creed, can
for a future new order which are
faii to 1ejoice in what victories
unquestionably preferable to any
Japan has won in her fight for
plans for the future reorganiza-
racial equality. But America
tion of Europe which Britain may
will certainly wonder how an alli-
have in the event of a British
ance with Nazi Germany, which
victory.
has made anti-Semiticism and
At its best, this is a labored
racial inequality the basis of its
argument, one which must be re-
national doctiines, can possibly
sorted to when it is necessary to
further this high cause.
excuse the facts of history dur-
And finally, there is the oft-
ing the past few years on those
repeated claim that the Tripartite
shallow grounds of nect ssity and
Alliance is in the interests of
"justifiable expedient- for which
world peace. As a result of last
precedents abound." American
week's Pacific crisis. the Spokes-
opinion will certainly be unim-
man of the Board of Information
pressed with thi: pecalair justifi-
wa- moved to de lare in this con-
cation for a partnership with
nection. "We want to repeat that
Cermany. It will wonder what
the purpose of the Tripar tite Pact
sort of really new order can
is peaceful." But why should it
 merge out of activities in which
be necessary to point out on this
independent, states from Norway
occasion in particular that this
to occupied France, from Poland
agreement ontaining military
to Rumania have been shorn of
provisions is an instrument of
their independence, have been
p ace? Is it through fear that no
ovetrun with Nazi armies, and
one save its apologist can r gard
have been conpelled by force to
it a- a peaceful measure?
b come Germany' vassals. 1f
Japan's continued etfont to sell
this is the new order which justi-
th: Tripartite Alliance as an in-
fiies Germany's position. and
strument of peace, as an aid to
thereby salvages Japan's prestige
racial equality, a; something of
in becoming allied with that
no danger to the United States, is
Power, we believe that the rest
unfortanately making the situa-
of the world which has thus far
tion worse. Ameri a has definite
(scaped participation in this new
ideas of the puipose of this alli-
order will be doubly pleased to
ance, and what can be accomplish-
d by trying to convince Amer-
reject it. If the world condemnz
Germany for what she has done
ican opinion that it is something
else? America won't and can't be-
in Europe, Japan must share
lieve arguments which are ad-
some measure of this condemna-
vanced to prove that black is
tion by association with Germany.
white. This constant attempt to
In world diplomacy, as in private
explain away American apprehen-
life, one is known and judged by
sion as a result of this alliance.
the friends he keeps.
Fo. eignMinister
Yosuke
only convinces American opinion
that the treaty is inimical to
Matsuoka on more than one oc-
American interests, that Japan
ca-ion has atttmpted to justify
knows it is so and is only trying
the Tripartite Alliance and has
to disperse this fear.
tried to convince America that
(This ty pe of sales talk on be-
this agreement holds nothing
half of how America should re-
which shouid give America cause
gard this alliance does far more
for alaim. Thus far, however,
harm than good. If Japan must
his arguments have been coidly
hav thi; partnership with the
received in all American quarters
Nazifascists, we shall no longer
and his latest explanation of Ja-
question the wisdom of hei
pan's motives for entering into
choice. Bat at the same time we
this pact will be accorded a simi-
sincerely hope that Japan's
lar reception. In answer to
statesmen and spokesmen/will not
an interpellation in the Diet
complicate further a strictly Ja-
Monday (17), the Foreign Min-
panese-American problem which
ister reportedly emphasized once
to our mind can still be settled
more that the alliance should not
without continued referen:e to
be viewed as a challenge to the
puiposes of this treaty and the
Anglo-Saxon nations, for it is an
alleged benefits Americ is sup-
instrument designed to help
posed to derive from it.
achieve the principle of racial
equality.
It is regrettable indeed that
the Foreign Minister chose to
bring the question of racial
equality into his argument. No
fair-minded person can overlook
Japan's uphill fight for racial
equality in its relations with the
Western Powers, in the framing
of the Covenant of the League of
Nations, and in its trying negoti-

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 3 to despatch
no. 5408, dated February 28, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNTTED STATES OF AMER ICA
Tokyo, January 21, 1941.
Dear Mr. Wills:
With regard to what you said to me yesterday,
I have been thinking the matter over and I frankly
regret very much that as an American and directing an
American newspaper in Japan you should feel obliged to
attack the phase of American foreign policy which you
mentioned to me. You asked me if I saw any fundamental
reason to explain the omission from the recent speeches
of the President and Mr. Hull of any allusion to Soviet
Russia. This question can emphatically be answered in
the affirmative on the ground that Soviet Russia does not
at present constitute the open and potential naval and
military threat to the United States which has been
avowed by the members of the Tripartite Alliance and
there was therefore no good reason to associate Soviet
Russia in the: same category with the other countries
mentioned in the speeches under reference, regardless
of the attitude of the American Government and people
towards communism as a possible subversive element im
our country.
Mr. W. R. Wills,
Japan News-Week,
Tokyo.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
There seems to me in this respect to be a clear
demarcation in their threat to the United States between
the Axis on tne one hand and Soviet Russia on the other,
and should you editorially criticize the President and
the Secretary of State for failing to associate Soviet
Russia with the Axis Powers in their recent speeches,
which dealt primarily and fundamentally with the question
of our national defense against armed force, your
argument would be open to serious counter criticism.
In any case, whatever may be our personal views, and
whatever the circumstances, I feel very strongly that
American citizens abroad should either openly support -
which in other issues you have so effectively done -
or, at the very least, should avoid open censure of the
expressed policies of their own Government.
Sincerely yours,
Joseph C. Grew.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
MR. HURNBECN
MAY 1-1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EAST
April 30, 1941.
Reference numbered paragraph seven of
Tokyo's 418, March 17, 3 p.m. in regard to
taking up with Mr. Hays of the motion picture
organization the question of obtaining
advertising support for the Japan News Week.
In the Department's 204, March 31 to
Tokyo, it was suggested that the Embassy
might wish to inform the representatives in
Japan of the motion picture companies that
the Department would be prepared to transmit
to Mr. Hays any message of recommendation from
those representatives in regard to the matter.
The Department has received no response from
Tokyo to this suggestion. It was also suggested
to IN in FE's memorandum of March 27, 1941 that
IN might wish to consider orally and informally
informing General Milliken, Acting Foreign
Manager of the Hays organization, upon his
next visit to the Department, of the action tak-
en by Tokyo and by the Department in regard to
this matter. IN states that it has not yet
had a chance to inform General Milliken but
that it intends to do so at the earliest
opportunity and to inform FE thereof.
m.mA.
MR.nUNBtLr
894.911/
MAY 8- 1941
2ucc
FE:Schuler:OJL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION DF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 27, 1941.
In Tokyo's telegran 418, arch 17, 1.m.
imbassy describes financiel difficulties
are now conffrontting Datsen wews week by
n of : ithdraval recentby of Jajanese adver-
ng an advertising camyain for the merican
n picture industry at a cont of about 50
6
er month, which could be paid from the
Prozen assets in Ja un of the erican
1 picture companies. The Embassy concludes
elegram with the suggestion that the De-
ent might consider taking up the matter
r. will Hays of the merican ction ric-
roducers and Distributors association.
is attached also a despatch from Tokyo
February 28, 194l) which gives further
ound about the news policy and organiza-
f Japan News Week. 73
omment: Ambassador Grew states in his
ch that it is his feeling that Japan ews
s doing a good job in the difficult task
senting the merican viewpoint to the
se public, and the ambassador expresses
lief that the paper deserves support in
fort. it would appear to FE that the
or the usefulness to American interests
in News Week is subject to considerable
cation. When the publication of the
:ommenced, it was generally felt by the
n community in Tokyo that the policy of
er was considerably influenced by
Japanese

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Japanese support, and that on many questions
the paper was taking a stand which was pro-
Japanese. It should be noted that the present
difficulties of Japan News Week find their
immediate cause in cessation of certain adver-
tising by Japanese firms. This not only explains
the paper's present straits but al so clearly
shows that past support has in substantial part
been Japanese. If it should be alleged that
a virtual American subsidy through advertising
by American firms would bring about a change of
editorial policy of Japan News Week in the
direction of more pro-American attitude, it
should be borne in mind that there is no assur-
ance that the Japanese authorities would permit
Japan News Week to continue. The paper has un-
doubtedly received lenient treatment from the
Japanese authorities during most of its exist-
ence up to the present time; but the recent
withdrawal of the Japanese advertising men-
tioned is probably an indication that if, by
reason of the commencement of American support
of the paper, Japan News Week were now to be
more independent in the statement of the Ameri-
can point of view, it would be likely to find
itself in the same position of isolation as was
experienced by the Japan Advertiser and the
Japan Chronicle. In any event the Department's
consideration of this question would be facili-
tated if the representatives in Japan of the
various American motion picture companies were
to make a definite recommendation with regard to
the proposal that the American motion picture
industry contribute substantially to the support
of

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
of Japan News week through an advertising cam-
paign.
1N may wisn to consider orally and in-
formelly informing General Carl E. milliken,
Acting oreign manager of the hays organization,
ipon General milliken's next visit to the De-
partment, of the contents of Tokyo's 4l8 and
stating that the Depertment is comaunicating
o Tokyo suggesting that the mbassador may
ish to take up with representatives in apan
f the motion picture companies concerned the
ossible transmission through the Embassy and
he Department of those representatives' recom-
endation.
A draft telegram to Tokyo is attached.
4.911/74
CCWN
:CC:JPS

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
JT
closely paraphrased be=
Dated March 17, 1941
IN
fore being communiated
to anyonε. (br)
REc'd 9:20 a.m.
FROM
Selegran to Jolayo
Divisteapr
Secretary of State,
FIR EA8T
dral Warck19 1941
Washington.
1941
CC
Department of S
894.9
418, March 17, 3 p.m. (SECTION ONE)
73
Embassy's dEspatch 5408, FEbruary 28.
1/74
JAPAN NEws WEek, the last foreign newspaper publih
in Japan, informs mE that hE rEcently reoeived an ofVer
by the Japan Information Bureau to purchase the journal
and that -he refused the offer on the ground that he
was unwilling to havE the policy of the paper changed in
any way.
Two. There is evidence that Efforts are being made
indirectly to sabotagE the paper, chief among such
being the fact that Mitsui, Mitsubishi and other Japanrer
894.911
firms have failed to renew their advertising contraots,
no doubt under official pfessure.
Three. Without such advertising the paper could
PS
continur only at a financial loss whioh the owneDcoyld
/DP
not faoe for long. The British Information Burrau
Tokyo has offered to defray this loss, on the g
克
that thry regard thr continuanor of advertising as
Wills

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- 418, March 17, 3 p.m. (SEC ONE) from Tokyo
Wills has refused any such direct subsidy becausE he
wishes be be editorially indtpendent but has informed
the bureau that the dEsired assistancE could properly bE
rendered through inoreased advertising by British firme.
REdmond, ohief of
GREW
WSB

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDO
JT
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
Dated Maroh 17, 1941
fore being communioated
to anyonE. (br)
FROM
Rec'd 8:52 a.m.
SEcretary of StatE,
Washington.
418, March 17, 3 P.m. (SE CTION TWO)
The British Information Bureau, has gone to
Osaka to endeavor to obtain such advertising contracts.
Four. Wills realizes that if the JapanesE arE
dEtermined to abolish thE NEWS WEEK they can readily
bring this about by indirect mEthods but he believes that
various important εlements in Japan, including the
Navy, desirE its continuance and hE will continue publioa
tion as long as possible.
FivE. I consider the JAPAN NEWS WEEK helpful to
American interests, not only in its general Editorial
policy but also by publishing textually such speeches
and public statemints of the President and the SEcretary
and other American officials as appear in our radio
bulletin to which we have given him accese, thus ensuring
their perueal by a considerable number of influential
JapanesE: He hopes to be able to arrange for a periodio
correspondence letter from the United States.
GREW
W8B

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
TOKYO
JT
This telegram must be
Dated March 17, 1941
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
forE bEing communicated
REc1d 8:50 a.m.
to anyone. (br)
Secretary of State,
Washington.
418, March 17, 3 p.m. (SECTION THREE)
Six. Wills has conceived, as an additional source
of revenue, the idea of running an advertising campaign
along broad institutional lines for the American motion
picture industry, which hE thinks would bE appropriatE at
this time because of the difficultiee with curtailment
of the importation of American pictures. This would
cost about yen 500 per month and could bE paid for from
the large frozen assets of the American companies here.
HE lEarns that thE companies oannot make such an Expendi-
ture without authorization from Mr. Will Hayes of the
American Motion Pioture Producers and Distributors
Association.
Seven. In the light of the ciroumstanors discussed
above, it is suggeeted that the Department might consider
taking up the matter with Mr. Hayes.
(END MESSAGE)
GREW
G7

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
ING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
IDICATE WHETHER
X CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL CODE
letter
PARTAIR
Night letter
Department of State
"Br"
PLAIN
Departments
Full rate
Washington.
Day letter
3/
Night letter
March 27, 1941,
Charge to
602
$
AMEMBASSY,
This cable was sert ir canfidretial Code.
TOKYO (JAPAN).
should  celulle r befere
betma eammuniemted te anyone.
204
Your 418, March 17,' 3 p.m., advertising in Japan
News Week.
The Department is giving consideration to the
question of conveying orally and informallyto Mr. Hays
894.911/74)
the information contained in your telegram under
reference, In the meantime you may wish to inform the
representatives in Japanof the motion picture companies
concerned that the Department would be prepared to
transmit to Mr! Haysa message'or recommendation from
those representatives in regard to the matter.
S.K.
OR
31 1941PM
VMAR
PS/AD
894.911/74
WAA
PA/H
CC
TN
FE:CC:JPS
FE
siCn
se
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
1-1402
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
>4

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 1, 1941.
WAA
5-1941
ce
Tokyo's 5500, April 8, 1941
The Ambassador submits "primarily as an
example of the vigorous presentation of the
American point of view which the Japan News
Week" continues to bring to the English-speaking
public in Japan despite Japanese censorship, two
editorials from that journal.
The first editorial contrasts the speech
by the President on March 15 and Hitler's ad-
dress in the early part of March. Complete
irreconcilability of the American precepts,
freedom, independence, peace and security for
all nations, with the arbitraty principles of
the "totalitarian" way propounded by Chancellor
Hitler and based upon Nazi domination and en-
slavement of weaker peoples is emphatically
pointed out. In conclusion the editorial asserts
American aid is not predicated upon the partic-
ular form of any government receiving that aid
but upon resistance to nations seeking to en-
force their will by resort to arms. The editor
urges Japan to remember that cooperation with
the United States is possible no matter what
type of government Japan proposes for itself
providing Japan does not seek to force its will
on others and so long as Japan conducts peace-
ful negotiations.
The second

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
essence, greater German victories
in 1941 and a Greater German
Reich. Those who have already
been forced under the yoke of
Nazi enslavement know too well
what lies ahead for the rest of the
world if Germany can make good
this boast. And those who have
still been spared the privileges of
the Nazi New Order can now well
appreciate the real menace they
face. Indeed, a grim contrast.
In its policy of aiding certain
Powers today, the United States
has not made the possession of
a particular form of government
the prerequisite to such aid. We
have heard the phrase 'aid to the
Democracies,'largely because the
major recipients of this aid are
Democracies. America has no
objection to a nation's adopting
whatever form of government it
prefers—even a totalitarian one.
But America has shown its oppo-
sition to any Power, regardless of
its form of government, imposing
by force its will and its system
upon others. It is to be hoped
that Japan in particular will be
able to appreciate this distinction
which has in-pired America's
present action, for the fact that
Japan may possess a form of gov-
ernment which America would
not necessarily choose for herself
is not by itself a barrier to Ja-
panese-American friendship.
Japan may choose a totalitarian
way of life for herself, but :0
long as she does not seek, as Ger-
many and Italy have sought, to
impose this way of life on othe:s,
so long as Japan chooses, as she
has chosen, to conduct peaceful
negotiations with such countries
as Indo-China, Thai, and the
Netherlands East Indies, Japan,
too, can find in America's present
program of aiding those whom
others would conquer and cppress
something that may not be so
remote from her own prof.ssed
desire to up-lift certain peoples
and to bring about greater peace
and harmony in this part of the
world.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ACTISER
DEP
-2-
The second editorial is a reply to a letter
from the Japanese reader objecting to the first
editorial and declaring that an attack on one
of the tripartite powers is an attack on all.
In this article, the editor asserts that Japan,
even under the tripartite alliance, has main-
tained its peculiar national personality and
autonomy which it should never relinquish and
that should Japan undertake to adopt complete
totalitarianism and become a part of the "super
state under Nazi domination", it must be
prepared to sacrifice those factors which have
been its source of strength and unity of
purpose for centuries.
894.911/75
FE:Sohmidt:OJL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
PA/H
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
MR. HORNB CK
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1941
10
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, Apr. 1 8, 1941.
No. 5500
SUBJECT:
TRANSMTTTDG EDITORIALS FROM THE JAPAN NEWS
WEEK UPOU PHE PRESIDENT'S MARCH 15, 1941,
SPEECH JD TH TRIHARTIPS ALLIANCE.
e ms
dle
894.9
78
WA
N
75
8949
The Honorable
MAY - 7 1941
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
PS/BAS
Sir:
804.711
With reference to my despatch no. 5408 of February
28, 194l, entitled "Japan News Week" in whioh mention was
made of the fact that the weekly editorial column of the
Japan News Week was the sole medium of expression in Japan
at the present time of the American viewpoint on interna-
1/ 2/ tional relations, I have the honor to transmit two note-
worthy
5

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
worthy editorials recently appear ns in that periodical.
The irst o. these eairi 1s peared in the arch 22
issue or the nai nd unuer the title "rim Contrast"
draws an unilinchi .. comparison betw en the a ims and ideals
of the Democracies and the Totalitarian Powers as exem-
plified by the Presiuent'e sp ech of March 15 and Chancel-
lor Hitler's recent address. Tne editorial points out the
utter irreconcilability of the precepts of the American pol-
icy as enunciated by the President, of freedom, indepen-
dence, peace and security for all nations whether large or
small with the principles propounded by Chancellor Hitler
or the "Tota literian Way" Wich it describes in unstinted
language as bein devoid of any internau onal or humani-
tarian outlook and postulated upo Nazi domination over and
enslavement of weaker peoples and upon the Nazi doctrine
or the superiority or the Teutonic race. With respect to
Chancellor Titler's address, the editorial further comments
that all through it there is a "hauntin fear of uncer-
tainty." The inquiry is made in this connection whether
the continued German emphasis upo the time when "England
will collapse", first predicted in August, then in Septem-
ber and again later in the fall of last year and now some-
time in l94l, is a manifestation of "a lack of confidenoe,
a realization that victory may still be far off but that
the (German) people must be told that it is really in sight."
This attitude is contrasted with that of British confidenoe
of victory which is held with the knowledge that a long,
hard road lies ahead for that country before suocess can be
exp eoted.
In

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
In co.cludin its aiscuss. . the editorial turns to
the specilie ue ti n of Arerjcan "ai to the Democracies."
It states th t t'e possession of  prticuler form of gov-
rnment is not the prere uisite for such aid, that the
United States has no objection to & nation's adopting what-
ever Ior oi overnment it prefere, even a totelitarian one,
out thot the United States is oppos.ng any Power, regard-
less of its rorm of government, which is imposing by force
its will and its system upon others. In drawing Japan's
particular attention to this aspect of America's present
policy, the editorial advances the hypothesis that irres-
p ctive of the way of national life that Japan may choose
for itself, so long as it does not seek to force its sys-
tem on others and "so long as Japan chooses to conduct
peaceful negotitions with other countries", Japan can find
in America's present program something that may not be so
remote from Japan's own professed desire to "up-lift" cer-
tain peoples and to pring about greater peace and harmony
in the Orient.
The second editorial entitled "Autonomous Japan" which
appeared in the March 29 issue of the Japan News Week is
in the nature of a reply to a letter received from a Japan-
ese in criticism of the views expressed in the previous
editorial. The Japanese correspondent, it will be noted,
characterizes the editorial "Grim Contrast" as "most dis-
tasteful" for Japanese in that the editors should realize
that "in attacking one of the Triple Allied Nations"they
are attacking the other two as well, and takes the Presi-
dent to task for including the Chiang Kai-shek regime among
the

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
the Democracies.
The editorial renlies to the last of these criticisms
by reiter  ier n vi w tht American support to
ouner countri  is n t necessari
predicated uoon their
orm o. rovernment uut springs Iron. other causes.
The editori:l then, however, takes up as an issue of
mueh
rentep s p. usnese th eritieism that the journal in
attac in Jenmany had also attacked Japan. It deduces that
by this charge the writer of the letter "would affirm that
in essence Japan, Germany and Italy are but one entity" and
it then proceeds to evelo  salient and searching commen-
tary in the matter. It first notes that the terms of the
Tripartite Alliance do not in themselves provide for the
subordi ation of the will and destiny of the iadividual
signctories of the Alliance to the direction and dictates
of a single entity. It states that it would be incredible
to think that Japan would relinquish its own autonomy and
national personal ity for the sake of two far-distant coun-
tries, despite a certain unity of aims and purpose among
the three Powers which is accorded by the Allianee; and it
is seriously to be doubted that "Japan could ever depart so
far from its traditional course as to acquire the complete
membership in that type of superstate under Nazi domina-
tion which Germany now envisages." The editorial points
out that "the Japanese statesmen have repeatedly emphasized
that the changes and reforms they contemplate are not to
be based on Nazi or Fasoist models"; and that in fact "the
peculiar national polity of Japan is utterly incompatible
with the totalitarian system of government of the kind that
now

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
now prevails in urope an if Japan undertakes to adopt
the comeleteo1.tarin
ru r pareu to
do so ao the s cririce
tl-itoort ne feetors in
hr traaltlonal n  l solity wihich neve proved the real
ource of her strength and unity or purpose for centuries."
The two editorials, or r al nterest in themselves, are
uomitted prinmr ii  on exam 1 of the virorous presen-
tation of tne American point of view which the Japan News
Week, despite the rigors of the Japanese censorship, is
still able to bring before the English-speaking public in
Japan.
Respectfulhy yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1/ and 2/ - Editorials from Japan News Week
891
JE:rk
Original and four copies sent to the Department.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 5500
dated April 8, 194l, from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
Japan News-Week.
Tokyo, March 22, 1941.
Grim Contrast
problems which lie ahead. the
neces-ity for vast organization.
co-operation. and sp ed in mak
Nothung could more for efulls
ny An erien the aos nat or p mo
racs. And Phere was no ellort
twen thtmate a m  the
made to oncead the sacritices the
Demoera res and the Totalitarian
people of America will be called
Powers than the specches last
upon to make in achieving their
w. ek of President Franklin
great purpose. "Let us make it
Roosevelt and Chancellor Adolf
clear that the nation is calling
Hitler, published in full on page
for the sactifice of some privi-
5. In tone, in sub tance. in in-
leges but not for the sacrifice of
pitation tho two statements are
fundamental rights. Most of us
worlds apart. They I rove the
will do that willingly. That kind
utter irreconciliability of two
of : arrifice is for the common na-
systems of thought. the full
tional prottetion and welfare: for
futility of any fal-e hop for
our defense against the most
compi omnise.
ruthless brutality in histery: for
President Roosevelt's address
the ultinate victory of a way of
was a calm but firm expression
life now so violentiy menae d."
of what America stands for, of
In is uing this appeal to the
what Am rica thinks of the
Amer ican nation, Pre ident Roose-
Totalitat ian Powers. and of what
velt was not d aling in national
America is prepared to do to meet
terms alone. He spoke also of
their challenge. "These modern
mankind and the dignity of hu-
tyrants," the President declared.
man life. He contrasted the
"find it nectssary to their plans
loyalty in-pirtd among peorles
to eliminate all democracies-
who are fighting against the
eliminate them one by one. The
Nazifascists to the cb di nce ex-
nations of Europe, and indeed we
acted from others who have bt en
ourselves, did not appreciate
enslaved by the totalitarian sys-
that purpo-e. We do now. The
tem of foice. He decried the
process of the elimination of the
doctrine that there is a -uper-race
European nations proceeded ac-
of men which can claim the right
cording to plan through 1939 and
to serve as masters over others.
1940, until the schedule was shot
He :ondemned the forceful ex-
to pieces by the unbeatable de-
tinction of small or weak nations
defenders of Britain." Faccd
and nationalitie- merely because
with this reality, America has
they are small or weak. "We be-
now made its decision—"the end
lieve that men and women of
of any attempts at appeasement
such nations, no matter what size,
in our land; the end of urging us
can, through the processes of
to get along with the dictatous;
peace, serve themselves and serve
the end of compromise with
the world by protecting the com-
tryranny and the forces of op-
men man's security; improve the
pression."
standard of healthful living; pro-
What does this mean? Just one
vide markets for manufacture and
thing, that America, with all its
for agriculture. Through that
1esources and prcductive capacity,
kind of peaceful service every na-
has thrown its weight on the side
tion can increase its happine:s,
of those heroic nations which
banish the terrors of war, and
have dared to resist the Nazi-
abandon man's inhumanity to
fascist menace, that the democra-
man."
cies of the world will prove that
In contrast, what did the great
the dictators cannot win. The
apostle of the Totalitarian Way
President calmty reviewed the
express? There was no interna-

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
tional, humanitarian outlook in
All through, this address is a
his words. There were the usual
panegyric to, "Germany, our peo-
charges about a plot, "to deprive
ple and our Greater German
the German nation of its most
Reich," a haughty boast of Ger-
primitive right, the right to live."
man superiority, the essence of
the Nazi doctrine of the supreme
There were the usual scapegoats
destiny of the Teutonic race. But
on whom to put the blame—"in-
all through ,there is also that
ternational Jewry and Free-
haunting fear of uncertainty.
masonry." There were the usual
"England will collapse!" It will
claims, which only the Nazifascist
be a German victory in 1941
can recognize, that Geimany was
Why this necessity to emphasize
forced to fight against her will.
once more the time? Last year
There was the usual justification
the final blow was to be in August,
of might making right, of nects-
then in September, then later in
sity knowing no law.
the fall, and finally, this spring.
With pride in his own ruthless-
Now it is som:time in 1941. Is
ness, Chancellor Hitler tells the
this lack of confidence, a realiza-
world how he broe the Franco-
t.cn that viciory may still be far
Briti:h front in the West last
off, but that the people must be
year. "I was able to announce
told it is really in sight? Britain,
on the Heroes' Memorial Day of
too, believes that victory will be
1940 that the coming battle would
hers. But Premier Winston
bring us the most glorious vic-
Churchill knows better than to
tory in our history. Eight weeks
deal in time-tables, even elastic
later, the fight began. When the
ones. He has told the British
campaign started, we succeeded
people that a long, hard road lies
within a few weeks in achieving
ahead. And the people under-
what we did not gain within four
stand and respond.President
years of unprecedented sacrifice
Roosevelt al:o has no need to
during the World War: the col-
make boasts. He is confident, too,
lapse of the Franco-British
in the ultimate triumph of a cause
front." Yes, a brilliant military
which is righteous and is under
achievement indeed, of which the
no necessity to make time pro-
Nazifascist might well boast with
mises which may not be fulfilled.
pride. What did the invasion of
The speeches of President
neutral Norway, Denmark, Bl-
Roosevelt and Chancellor Hitler
gium, Holland, and Luxemburg
matter? What of the destruction
are inde d a grim contrast. The
of these small peacful states?
wide:t gulf of all lies betwecn
What of the present enslavement
what each has to offer for the fu-
of their helpless populations?
ture. The entire world, save
What does all that matter so long
those Totalitarian Powers who
as Germany could win, "the most
would rule the world, can tuin to
glorious victory in our history."
President Roosevelt's words with
Today,Chancellor
Hitler
hope for something better to
boasts, Germany is prepared and
come. Those who cherish free-
dom, peace, and security are in no
deteimined, "to accomplish what
doubt as to the issues involved,
was begun in the historic year of
have no reason to fear that Amer-
1940." What new innocent vic-
ica's great effoit as the arsenal
tims are to be sacrificed for an-
of Democracy is designed to set
other German victory, for another
up any nation or group of na-
Nazi holiday? With thousands of
tions which will rule over others.
Jews, Poles, Czechs, Norwegians,
And those who have been forced
Dutch, Belgians, and French in
under the Nazifascist tyranny can
concentration camps, with their
find in President Roosevelt's
homes destroyed, with their coun-
clear dcfinition of the purpose of
tries enslaved, Chancellor Hitler
America's action a real hop? for
asks Providence to let Germany,
their ultimate delivery.
"find the right way to lead the
But what does Chancellor Hit-
nations freed from their shackles
ler's boastful challenge offer? In
to a better order of things."

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
essence, greater German victories
in 1941 and a Great r German
Roh Throe wne haee ahead
been toced under th oke ot
Sot n hatemene koow too well
what hes thead for the r s of the
worid t German can make good
this boa t. And those who have
still been spated th privileges of
the Nazi New Order can now well
appreciate the r al menace they
face. Indeed. a grim cont rast.
In  podie of aodiny certaon
Poweos today. the United Stats
has not made the poss ssion of
a particular form of government
the prer quisite to such aid. We
have heard the phiase 'aid to the
Democracies,' largely because the
major recipients of this aid are
Democracies. Amtica has no
objection to a nation's adopting
what: ver form of government it
prefers-even a totalitarian one.
But America has shown its oppo-
sition to any Power, regardless of
its form of gov rnment. imposing
by force its will and its sy-tem
upon others. It is to be hoped
that Japan in particular will be
able to appreciate this distin tion
which has in·pircd Am rica's
present action, for the fat that
Japan may possess a foim of gov-
ernment which America would
not necessarily choose for herself
is not by itself a barrier to Ja-
panese-American friendship.
Japan may choose a totalitarian
way of life for h: rself. but :o
long as she does not seek, as Ger-
many and Italy have sought, to
impose this way of life on othe:s.
so long as Japan chooses, as she
has chosen. to conduct peaceful
negotiations with such countries
as Indo-China, Thai, and the
Netherlands East Indies, Japan.
too, can find in America's present
program of aid:ng those whom
others would conquer and cppress
something that may not be so
remote from her own prof、ssed
desire to up-lift certain peoples
and to bring about grater peace
and harmony in this part of the
world.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 5500 dated
April 8, 194l, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Japan News-Week.
Tokyo, March ?9, 1941.
the Totahta nan Powers.
in
Autonomous Japan
making this comparison, we not-
ed the contrast between the two
Ordinar ily ali corre-pondence
alternatives with which the
addressed to the edtor 1 pab
world i- now confronted and were
hished under the neadiny Th
constratted ta bhee p ha
Pute  Lme podowmpe let
through pre oudhee a- a res it ot
ter, howeser, is o1 suen impo.
cur own background, inciuding
tance in reil eting a view whien
our long as-ceiations w th Japan
is unqu-tionably shared by a
and its way of life, that this
considerable section of Japanese
contrast was inde,d a grim one.
opinion that we fed the necessity
We let the substance of the two
to publish it in tull in this
addres es and the facts of recent
column.
history speak for themselves, and
The Editor,
if this piesentation can b: in-
Your editorial appearing in
terpreted as an attack upon
your recent issue dated March
(haneellor Hitler and the Third
22 under the caption of 'Grim
Reich, it may be b cau e these
Contras may be aright tor
addresses and the facts of recent
Americans to express then
history offer too cloquent t sti-
own viewpoint, hut it is cer-
mony of the real aims and
tainly a most distasteful edi-
motives of the two sides. It can
torial for a Japanese to read.
You must remember that when
hardly be construed as a sin on
you are at ackng one of the
our part if this comparison do s
Triple Allied Nations you are
not place Germany in a favorable
doing the same thing to the
ligtht and is thereby di-tasteful
other two as well. It is very
to our Japanese reader.
well for you to praise your
It is also appaint that our
honorable President Mr. Roose-
reader has missed the mark in
velt as much as you like, but
his contention that America re-
do not forget that you are in
Japan, not in the States, and
gard. the Chungking Government
depending on Japanese sup-
as a D.mocracy. Some Amer-
port more than anybody else.
icans, to be sure, may be under
It is quite a joke when your
such a delusion, but the American
President Mr. Roosevelt calls
Goveinment's policy of assi-ting
the Chiang Kai-shek regime
(hungking is nct based upon any
one of the Democracy Nations.
argumont that Genelal Chiang's
Perhaps Chiang himself would
regime is a democratic one. The
be tickled to death to hear
that joke.
United States is less intere t d
We don't pay any respect to
in the form of goveil ment a
the word of a man who would
country may have than in the
dare to call that 'Snow is
manner in which that country
Black' because it suits his pur-
conducts its relations with others.
pose to say so.
Gieece is not a Democracy, but
A JAPANESE READER
it is receiving American aid for
Tokyo, March 23, 1941.
other reasons. Britain, however,
The reader has apparently
does happen to be a Democracy,
missed the point of this editorial,
but Britain is not receiving
regarding it solely as an atta.k
America's help mer.ly because
on one of the 'Triple Allied Na-
tions.' Actually, however, the
of this fact. American assi:tance
editorial was a comparison be-
to Chungking has not been in-
spired by any particular form of
tween the addresses of President
Roosevelt and Chancellor Hitler,
government prevailing there. It
comes from a number of issues
a comparison of their aims and
purposes as expressed therein,
and reasons which have convinced
the United States that the sup-
which conclusively reveals the
port of Chungking is necessary
hopelessly wide gulf which now
from the standpoint of American.
separates the Democracies from

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Far Eastern policy and nothing
Even though some Japanese
more.
may be willing, to see their coun-
These issues, however, are
try lo:e its autonomous character
really of minor importance, for
thiough a wholesale merger of
the correspondent has raised a
this kind, we seriously doubt if
much more serious question,
Japan could ever depart so far
namely: "You must remember
from its traditional course to ac-
that when you are attacking one
quire the full totalitarian charac-
of the Triple Allied Nations you
teristics which would be essential
are doing the same thing to the
for complte membership in that
other two as well." By this
type of superstate under Nazi
charge the 1eader would affirm
domination which Germany now
that in essence Japan, Germany
envisages. Japanese statesmen
and italy are but one entity, that
have emphasized time and again
criticism, comment or attack
that the changes and reforms
directed against one is applicable
they contemplate are not to be
to all. The telms of the Tripar-
based on Nazi or. Fascist models.
tite Alliance, however, have not
They have need to emphasize this
subordinated the will and destiny
fact, for the Nazifascist formula
of the individual signatories to
:annot be applied to Japan with-
the direction and dictates of a
out a fundamental sacrifice of
single entity. In fact, it is im-
those national qualities which
possible to envi:age such a situa-
have given Japan its major claim
tion. Certainly Germany has not
to distinction and without which
and would not subordinate it-
Japan would lose the entire basis
self to the Tripartite Alliance,
of her stiength and national
and it would be incredible to
character.
think that Japan would relinquish
Much to the bewilderment of
her own autonomy and person-
some and to the exasperation of
ality as a national entity for the
others, Japan News-Week took oc-
:ake of two Powers at the op-
ca:ion to d al with this pioblem.
posite side of the globe. To b-
under the title 'Lest Japan For-
sure, the Tripartite Alliance has
get'in our issue of July 27, 1940.
accorded a certain unity of aim
We endeavorcd to show that Ja-
and puipose among the three
pan has a peculiar national polity
Powers, but not, we believe, at
based upon the unique spiritual,
the sacrifice of Japan's own
political and racial position of the
sovereignty and independence.
Emperor. We endeavored to
Had such a stipulation been re-
show that this unusual national
quired, it is impossible to see
polity has given the Japanese na-
how Japan would have ever join-
tion a unity of purpose and a
ed such a union.
strength of chaiacter which is un-
There may, of course, be some
rivalled. And we maintained
Japanese who are so short-sight-
then, and repeat now, that this
ed or tnamored with certain as-
peculiar national polity is utterly
pects of the Third Reich that they
incompatible with the totalitarian
might be willing to see Japan be-
system of government of the kind
; come so suboidinated to that
which now prevails in Europe,
country that her destiny would be
that if Japan undertakes to adopt
bound hard and fast with the fate
the complete totalitarian system,
of Germany. We are confident,
she mu·t do so at the sacrifice of
however, that this type of Japan-
those all-important factors in her
ese is by far the exception rather
traditional national polity which
have pioved the real source of
than the rule. But when our cor-
respondent reminds us that an
her strength for centuries.
attack on Germany is the same
For Japan's own sake, for the
sake of those fundamental quali-
as an attack on Japan, we seri-
ously wonder if he does not belong
ties which make Japan Japanese,
we hope that this needless sacri-
to this category.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
fice will never be made. Cthers
who have Japan's own well-being
less at heart may disagree with
this argument, for they may have
discovered in th? possibility of
such a change advantages which
will expediently serve their own
interests. There is certainly a
selfish basis to the contention
that Japan must become so totali-
tarian that its identity be com-
plttely merged with the Totali-
tarian Powers. Even the Tripar-
tite Alliance does not call for such
a sacrifice. No degree of legiti-
mate political co-cperation with
the Axis imposes on Japan the ob-
ligation to adopt the Totalitarian
Way, or the obligation to resent,
as being directed against Japan
any or all criticism directed
against Germany and Italy. Jf
this were so, Japan might expect
or even demand that Germany
and Italy adopt Japan's unique
polity, and might even insist that
Japan be regarded as the domi-
nant factor in the Axis.
Fortunately, Japan is not a
totalitarian state, and we are
grateful of the opportunity to
make a clear distinetion between
Japan and the Totalitarian
Powers. Nor do we ever forget
for a moment that Japan News-
Week is publish d in Japan and
depends to a lai ge extent upon the
support it receives from its Ja-
panese readers and advertisers. It
is in recognition of this fact that
Japan News-Week has endeavored
to repay its obligation by its
stivice as a newspaper in the
cause of improving Japan's rela-
tions with others, especially the
United States. We believe that
this service can only be effective
so long as we pursue a really in-
dependent, impartial and con-
stiuctive editorial policy. The
task is a difficult one, but fortu-
nately it has been made easier
by the very fact that Japan is
not a totalitarian state, that Ja-
pan has thus far preserved its
real Japane-e character. To this
we pay our highest tribute as
ones who really wish to see Japan
remain at peace with her neigh-
bor across the Pacific.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.94)
CF
MR. HORNBECK
AY S-,1941
RS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
+1
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrased be
OF STATE
forE bEing communicated
Dated April 30, 1941
to anyonE. (br)
FROM
REc'd 5: 10 a.m.
511/4150
A
SEcrEtary of StatE,
DIVISOA
Washington
MAY
71941
WA
894.
Embacsy's 418, March. 17,3 pm.
14
6
DEpartmEnt's 204, March 30, 6 p.m.
CON FI DEN TIAL.
OnE. Wills, Editor Japan NEWSWEEK,informs mE conf1-
9
dentially that hE was recEntly cEnsured by thE Information
Bureau for publishing alleged unti-German material to
which hE rEpliEd that thE policy of his papEr was in no
rEspEct anti-GErman, but that it aimed to support and pro-
motE JapanEsE-AmErican friEndship.
Two. After having dElivEred thE cEnsurE, which Wills
844711
bEliEvEs was donE purely at thE behest of thE ChinEsE Em-
bassy, thE Information Bureau thereupon informed wills that
FILED
channEl for JapanEsE-American relations and that both
10
PS/FLR
thE navy and thE Information Bureau dEsired thE continu
tion of thE paper. The Information Bureau further stated
that it would bE glad to hElp thE paper mEEt its financial
difficultiEs and it offErEd thE sum of 10,O00 yEn for this
purposE. wills replied that hE would accept no subsidies,
but that it would bE of great assistancE if thE prominent
11
(JapanesE)

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
#614, to Tokyo, da tEd April 30, 1941
JapanEsE firms which had withdrawn thEir advertisEments
(sEE paragraph numbErEd two, Embassy's 418) should dEcidE
to renEw thEir advertising contracts. A fEw days later
Mitsui renEwed its contract and Wills beliEves that Mitau-
bishi will follow shortly.
GREW
WPL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
POL
0:1
MR.HORNBICK
MAY 0F 1941
LS
PLAIN
A
FROM
TOKYO VIA SHANGHAI & N.R.
894.911/77
Dated May 1, 1941
REc'd 9:03. a.m. 2d
ne
Secretary of StatE
Washington
627., May 1, 7 p.m.
512/41REK
VErnacular press continues dEpreciatE American
Extension patrol ones suggesting approaching war Entry
but points out split American opinion and sympathizes
Lindbergh's attitudE. No Editorial conment has appeared
regarding Soviet ban trans-Siberian munitions shipments.
Foreign desratches reporting this action includE Dome1
rEport from Washington stated Russian action is inter-
preted Sovlet rapprochment with Britein - United States.
HoCHI columnist mentions suggEstion Howard newspapers
PS/FLR
that Matsuoka visit United States and that no barrier
exists preventing understanding Matsuoka - President
RoosEvElt. Commentator s tates Matsuoka has repeatedly
dEclared American-JapanesE war would bE unparalleled
PILED
calamity to mankind and it is up to thE United Stat
2
und-rstand this assertion.
16
Leading articlE todays KOKUSEIN headed "NEw ThemE
JapanesE Diplomacy: Cessation Anglo-American Assistance
to

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 627, May 1, 7 p.m. from Tokyo.
to Chungking" refers to recent important conferences
between governm ent and army-navy general staffs regardi.
nEw dirEction JapanEsE diplomacy and statEs: 'apan's
a im in edhering to Axis is prevention United States from
joining war. Japan has no intention to takE armed action
In thE South Seas region now by taking advantagE of
sEcurity on northern dEfensE linE obtainEd through con-
clusion neutrality pact with Soviet Union. Japan's solE
concern is to obtain completE solution of thE China inci-
dent through concentrated effort." To achievE this solu-
ti on nEcessary overthrow Chiang RegimE and Ending Britisi.
American assistancE Emphasized. New problem confronting
Japan's diplomacy said resolve into parleys with third
countries dEsignEd to obtain cessation of a id to Chiang.
Matsuoka stated studying concretE methods achieving this
end.
KOKUMIN Editorial discussion European ho st1l1t1es
states that American public opinion may split over ald
to Britain and may becomE solidly unified. Situation
transport route bEtween Asia and Europe pointed out
now favorablE to Axis. Unless Axis promptly concentrates
operations upon subjugating British Isles situation may
possibly turn favorable toward Britain - United Statss.
Germany advi sed not Extend hostilities into romote ooloni.
Sent Departm mt via Shanghai.
RR
OREY

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Unfavorable cartoon of President Roosevelt
in JAPAN TIMES AND ADVERTISER.
Encloses copies of - together with memorandum
of conversation with Mr. Toshi Go, editor of
894.911/79
the publication.
1w
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Deapa5469
(Despatah, telegram, instruotion, letter, etc.)
From
Dated...Mar...26...1941
Japan (Grew)
To
File No.
811.001Roosevelt.F.D./7039
894.911

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 3, 1941
WAA
PA
Reference Tokyors despatch no. 5575,
May 7, 1941, transmitting an editorial from
the Japan News Week.
According to the despatch, the editorial
entitled "No Compromise" refers to the recent
manifestations in fairly widespread Japanese
circles of an attitude of questioning the
efficacy and meaning of American assistance to
Great Britain and cites a letter written to
the Japan News Week as reflective of the
Japanese opinion held in certain sections that th
American aid to Britain program is a hopeless
venture on behalf of a lost cause. Mention is
also made in the letter of the opposition of
the isolationists in the United States and the
labor difficulties in the American defense
industries. In opposition there is pointed out
in the editorial the fact that American aid to
Great Britain does not derive its inspiration
from opportunistic motives but is based upon
upholding certain fundamental principles and
ideals. There is expressed the view that even
if Great Britain should fall, the United States
could not come to terms with the Nazi-Fascist
conquerors of Europe. The editorial advises
Japan not to take too seriously the statements
of Colonel Charles A. Lindberg and other
isolationists in that they are not representativ
of the will of the American nation and also
warns Japan not to be mislead in believing
that

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
American labor difficulties are inspired by
political considerations such as anti-war
feeling and thut these difriculties cannot be
readily solved.
The Hmbassy mentions that the editorial
enclosed is the last gfa series prepared by
the Associate Editor Who has left for the
United States but declares that despite this
loss, the Embassy understands that as far as
circumstances permit, the same editorial policy
of the Japan News Week will be continued.
894.911/81
FE:Schuler:MBW

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
ALLATIONS
PA/A
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JUN 7- 194
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
liki
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5575.
:
TRA.S PTT G DIFRTAL E T LSD "NO FROMTS
APTEAHI G  T ARIL 26 1SSUE OF TH
AN NEWS
WEEL.
C
vile
W.
You
1P-11
Pix
InUA
JUN 171941
MR. WELLES
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
75
Sir:
With reference to my despatch no. 55o0 of April 8,
89+9"
l94l, and previous despatches transmitting editorials
from the Japan News Week which have sought to presenft in,
FILED
Po/HK
Japan the Amerioan viewpoint in international relations,
心
1/
I have the honor to enclose a olipping of another inter-
esting and timely editorial in this respect whioh appdared
in the April 26, 194l, issue of that periodical.
The

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
The editorial, entitled "No Co romise", refers to
the r cent anirestations in fuiil wides read Japant se
cireles of un att: tuce of ucstioning the efficacy and
meanin of  rican assistunce to Great ritain. The
editorial cites a letter ritten to the journal, a repro-
o ie1 tter published  t Ja  e eek
2/
is also enclosed, as reflective of the sentiment pervading
those sect ons of Japanese or inion that the American Aid to
Britain program is a hopeless venture on behalf of a lost
cause for reasons of the overwhelming German military power,
the acute shipping shortages of the Allies, the still in-
complete rearmom ent of the United States, the difficulty
of Great Britain with or without American assistance of
ever being able to land forces on the uropean continent or
to destroy the mighty German military machine. In support of
this view mention is also made of the opposition of the iso-
lationists in the United States and the labor difficulties
in the American efense industries. As described by the
editorial, this attitude in essence would imply thet the cause
is so hopeless that the United States had better withdraw,
allow Britain to go down, permit a quick peace to be reached
and, in other words, admit "a surrender to Nazi domination".
The editorial points out the fact that American aid to
Great Britain does not derive its inspiration from oppor-
tunistic motives but is based on upholding certain fundamental
prinoiples and ideals. It states that even ir Great Britain
should fall the United States could not eome to termswith
"the Nazifascist conquerors of Europe". The editorial ad-
vises
!8135.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
vises Japan not to tuke too seri asly the statements
of coloncl rl a. L bere and other isolatiou sts
as t.e viewe of those
eruons canlot be acce ted as being
re re e tative of te will of the  crican nation. It
also arns Japan hot to be mislead i. bel uving that the
Anerican labor ifricultius are ins irec by politicnl con-
siuerati ns such as iti-war feeling and that these air-
ficulties will not be readily and justly resolved. In a
sumation of its views, the editorial declares that the
United States and Great Britain are pledged to a realization
of their ideals founded on civilized and humanitarian con-
cepts and that they have adopted what may be termed, in
using the Japanese phrase, an "immutable policy". The
editorial concludes by asserting that under this policy
the United States is committed to bring about the complete
destruction of the "Nazi-Fascist" menaces to world civiliza-
tion and that there is little doubt but that if necessary
the United States will even eventually go so far as to
resort to naval and military intervention in the war in
support of its policy.
It may be mentioned with respect to the enclosed
editorial that it is the last of the series that have
been written for the Japan News Week by its associate
editor, Mr. C. N. Spinks, who departed at the end of April.
for the United States. Despite this loss to the paper,
however, it is understood that as far as circumstances
may

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
may permit the same editorial policy of the pu er will
be e ntinu d.
Res.cctfully yours,
710
Joseph C. Gr .
J:C
Enclosures:
1/2 As stated above.
Oricinal and 3 co:ies to Department.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 5575 dated May 7, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Japan News-Week.
Tokyo, April 26, 1941.
No Compromise
Felhgerent and Ameri a as a vir
mad ally piedged to bring about a
W ith the collapse of Yugo sdavia
British victory through its aid
and the telentless Nazi drive in
are grave indeed. It is impliod
Grece and North Africt. the
in the writer's letter. and this i
peortion of ireat Brman 1- aogon
a poin no do bt -haeed  most
rda
Lapome today. thar the cause is
he e sensarronad der lopment
so hopele s that America had
àa a result of the Ge  man spring
bette: withdraw. allow Britain
offensive, a section of Japan se
to go down, and th is bring about
opinion has once more began to
a quick peace. In other words.
question the meaning and value
surrend r to Nazi domination.
of American a-sistance to the
Such a development would no
embattled Allies. The letter re-
doubt fit in nicely with Japan's
produced in an adjoining columi
position as an ally of the Nazi-
no doubt reflects a si ntiment
fa ei-ts. It would relieve Japan
which now pervades a laige sec-
of a great d al of anxiety which
tion of the Japanese mind.
now arises over the possibilities
In essene, the writer of the
of Ameri a's future action. E t
letter view- the American aid-to-
what our reader and his kindr d
Britain program as a hopeless
pirits ov' rlook is the fact that
ventu? on behalf of a lost cause.
through its aid to Britain the
The acute shipping shortage.
United States is not conceined
America's -till incomplete re-
merely with winning a war.
armament. the difficulty of ver
There is much nore at stake than
effe,ting a landing by Britain.
a victor, for Britain. Unless
with or without American mili-
bound by some haid-and-fa-t
tary and naval support, which
military alliance, a Power seldom
can cope with the mighty Nazi
if ever go s so far out of its way
war machine, the unsolved sub-
to help another, regardless of
marin menaceall these terrific
historical. lingui-tic. or other
obstacles are pertinently review-
aflinities.
ed by the writer, who then asks
The point of the whol: matter
if Am rica thinks she can really
lies in the fact that America is
help England despite these seem-
motivated in it: actions by an
ingly insurmountable difficulties.
ideal. the realization of which
The writer next points out the
can only be achieved by the com-
fact that certain American isola-
plet: defeat of the Nazi and
tionists like Colonel Charles A.
Fascist system; and all they
Lindbergh realize the hopeless
stand for. Great Britain happens
nature of the situation and seek
to share this ideal. Biitain hap-
to spare America from the defeat
pened to be closer to the Nazi-
and humiliation which would
fascist menace and has thus
come through intervention on be-
found herself fighting against it.
half of Britain's allegedly lost
Ame: ica had no other choice but
cause.
to give Britain every possible
Finally. the writer brings up
in asur of support. And parallel
the question of labor difficulties
with that, Britain, by means of
in the American defense indus-
America's aid, is now holding off
trie: and asks if they are to be
this menace until America can
settled by force or by methods
complete its own military and
compatible with the spirit of the
naval preparation-.
Americanconstitution.
Now if Britain's fight against
wonders, too, if these labor
the Nazifa-cists happens to stem
troubles are inspired by political
hopeless today, that does not alter
moves, such as anti-war feeling.
in the least the validity of nor
It cannot be denied that the
the nece-sity for America's con-
diff ulties facing Britain as a
tinued support. The ideals which

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
originally motivated America's
wealth and energies of nations
action can not be affected or
will not be sacrificed to build up
altered by. military defeats, or
war machines, one in which civili-
by victories either. Even should
zation will be able to emerge a
Britain fall, the United States
few steps further from the hor-
could not come to terms with the
ror and darkness of medieval
Nazifa:cist conquerors of Europe
barbarity. And because America
who would then aspire to be the
and Britain hope to attain this
conquerors of the world.
kind of world, they must bring
Nor should the statements of
about the destruction of the Nazi-
Colonel Lindb:rgh and other iso-
fascist system which savagely
lationists be taken too seriously.
upholds all that Britain and
Colonel Lindbergh is indeed a
America must oppose. Pledged to
man of courage. It requird
the realization of such ideals,
both Britain and America have
courage when he spanned the
Atlantic in the first solo flight
no altornative but to achieve
fourteen yars ago, and he dis-
their goal or go down fighting.
To put it in a way which may be
play: even more courage in his
more familiar to the Japanese
singular stand today. But Colo-
mind, the two Powers have adopt-
nel Lindbergh's views cannot be
ed an immutable policy, and such
acc pted as representative of the
b ing the case, there is no choice
will of the American nation in
but victory or extinction.
facing this grave crisis. More-
Beside the·e considerations, the
over, the fact that Colonel Lind-
question of labor difficulties,
bergh bears a military title does
which the writer has brought up,
not confer upon him, as many
shrink to utter unimportance.
Japanese seem to believe, full re-
There a1e labor troubles in
cognition as a profound authority
America's defense industries to
on military affairs, whose words
be sure, but they have not thus
and warnings must be heeded.
far affected seriously the rearma-
The situation has gone too far
ment program. That these
for Colonel Lindbergh or any of
troubles will be settled, there can
the isolationists to influence
be no doubt. Force of some kind
American policy in supporting
may even be n'cessary, but our
Britain. Although in an extreme
minority, these isolationists are
anxious reader can rest assured
that America will not settle its
allowed to speak their pieces and
labor troubles by devices known
exert whatever influence they
and employed by his country's
may, so unlike the treatment
two allies who now boast that
minorities receive under the
they have no labor problems.
Nazifascist new order.
Fortunately for America, she
Perhaps America's policy to-
still has labor problems, and may
ward the European War may
the day never come when Amer-
seem strange to the Japanese
ican labor is leduced to passive
mind. But Japan has professed
servitude.
to have certain ideals, too, and
On the basis of all reports
has professed her determination
available from America, the pre-
to fight for them regardless of
sent labor trouble: are not an ex-
what comes. It is the same with
p:ession of anti-war sentiment,
America and Britain. They have
or opposition to the aid-to-Britain
their ideals about a really new
program. It may seem strange
world order, one in which trea-
to some of our readers, but these
ties and pledged words will be
disputes are concerned entirely
respected, one in which the
with labor issues, such as hours,
brutality of force will not be the
wages and matters of jurisdic-
final arbiter among men, one in
tion, and nothing more. Axis
which racial persecution will not
propagandists have no doubt
be a fundamental principle of
ncurished the Japanese mind with
statecraft, one, in which there
the argument that American
will be no need for concentration
labor troubles have gravely cur-
camps, beef-squads, and Gesta-
tailed the defense program and
pos, one in which the entire

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
are an expression of opposition
prompted the frantic German
to assisting Britain or possible
effort to complete the conquest of
American intervention in the
Europe before America is fully
war. Neither could be further
prepared. For should the reali-
from the truth.
zation of America's immutable
Unfoitunately for Nazifascist
ideal necessitate intervention in
calculations, America is now
the war, once America is fully
committed to bring about the
prepared, the Nazifascists know
complete destruction of thes?
that their schemes of world con-
menaces to world civilization.
quest are doomed to destruction.
Further British defeats in Eu-
rope will not alter this policy.
American aid to Great Britain
will be extended to the very limit,
even if Britain eventually goes
down. And if this immutable
American policy is puzzling or
distuibing to the Japanese mind,
it had better prepare itself now
for the possibility of eventual
American military and naval in-
telvention in this war, for if the
Nazifascists and the system they
uphold cannot be crushed by the
method: heretofore pursued,
America may have no other
choice. Amelica is determined to
bring about their destruction, and
will not be deterred or intimidat-
ed by their bellicose threats or
more by Nazi victories. Once
armed, as it plans to be, and
backed with its great manpower
and wealth of materials, the
United States will be fully pre-
pared to triumph over anything
the Nazifascists can put in the
field, in the air, or on the water.
America is not so alarmed as
some Japanese may have been
lead to believe by their allies' pro-
paganda. Despite the reverses
of recent weeks, America is con-
fident that Britain can still hold
them at bay until America's own
war machine is completed. And
despite what the Nazifascist pro-
paganda agncies may say about
how delayed and ineffective the
American defense program is,
the output of planes, war vessels,
tanks, guns, and munitions is in-
creasing at a phenomenal rate,
with new units being commission-
ed far ahead of schedule. Des-
pite their glib words, the Nazi-
fascists know full well what this
means. Germany in particular
realizes, from• the achievements
of American armies in 1917-
1918, what lies ahead. And these
considerations
are what has

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch
no. 5575 dated May 7, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Japan News-Week.
Tokyo, April 26, 1941..
Desires Enlightenment
In the meantime, what interests
this country above all things is
The Editor,
whether or no America really thinks
The latest developments in Yugo-
she can help England in spite of
slavia and Greece remind me of the
being too late. Not only in Japan
thorough preparedness of the Ger-
but also in America, I am given
man Army which, in point of tac-
to understand, there is a large num-
tical and strategic efficiency, stands
ber of men like Col. Lindbergh who
almost unparalleled. Against this
openly and fearlessly predict that
America—if British aid policy is
defeat and humiliation await Amer-
really put into execution—has to
ica if she participates in the pre-
make equal preparations on a
sent European war. His words
gigantic scale. In view of the
are worth listening to, for he is
shortage of shipping American aid
not a layman but a military man
looks hopeless because England
who has traveled extensively in
needs not only the replenishment
Europe and has seen things with
of weapons of all sorts but also the
his own eyes.
dispatch of powerful American
Next thing I should like to be
fighting units. Herein lies the
enlightened upon is whether the
greatest difficulty and perils. And
present "defense labor" troubles in
even supposing America, with her
America, which are of a most seri-
vast, unlimited resources, overcomes
ous nature, can or cannot be sup-
in a short time the shipping short-
pressed by President Roosevelt with
age and other innumerable incon-
force, and if force is employed, is
veniences attached to the sending
it compatible with the spirit of the
overseas of a large body of men,
American constitution? Anyway it
it is difficult to imagine where such
has a great interest for us. Next,
a large army can be landed. To
whether the labor leaders have any
help England thoroughly, it is not
political moves in view which
enough to send an army to England
prompted them to choose the pre-
only; but to some other points on
sent moment for launching what
the European continent it must be
appears like anti-war demonstra-
sent, so as to check the contem-
tions? Whether if the "defense
plated German invasion. Practical-
labor" troubles assume further seri-
ly, however, with all vantage ground
ous dimensions, resulting in addi-
in possession of the latter, it is a
tional delay in rendering promised
physical impossibility for the U.S.
help to England, and finally compel
Army to attempt anything of the
Washington to abandon the British-
kind—I mean the penetration into
aid-policy in such case do the labor
the European continent, say even
leaders believe or recognize they
the coastal regions. In the circum-
are making a large contribution
stances, the only alternative left
toward the promotion of world
for America is to concentrate her
peace? Or do they think the in-
Army in England, and that in the
terests of a single nation should be
face of serious obstacles and dan-
sacrihced, if the rest of humanity
gers. On the other hand, there is
wilt be benefited by their actions?
every reason to believe that the
By this means do they want a
German submarine menace will
golden page written in the history
grow apace worse and worse, and
of labor, either, by making Eng-
Germany will not wait until Amer-
land face the logic of cold facts and
ica completes her preparations. Al-
give up the struggle, or by making
ready, it is conjectured, a six
Washington officials place primary
months delay has taken place,
importance on the welfare of their
owing to the Italo-Greek war, in
own people to the utter exclusion
carrying out the invasion of Eng-
of anything else?
land, so it appears most likely that
A CHOFU READER
the moment the Yugoslav and
Tokyo, April 15, 1941.
Greek campaigns are brought to an
end, the invasion of England will
start.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.93)
July 10, 1941.
JUL 10 1941
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BERLE:
MR. BERLE
RECEIVED
The attached report on the different attitudes of the ne
UL14 1941
papers, is submitted as of possible interest to the Far Easter
and Intelligence Divisions.
Divisioner
7
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 1 1 1941
thens anywey
Depactment of Sta
FE foleows
as
CORRELA
JUL141941
FILED
JUL 1 0 1941
894.911
PS/LDP
FW8

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
REPORT COMPARING JAPANESE-AMERICAN NEWSPAPERS PUBLISHED IN THE ENGLISH
AND IN THE JAPANESE LANGUAGES
Samples taken frow the Tapanese American Review (in English) and
the Japanese American (in Japanese) for Ma 17 and May 31, 1941.
THE JAPANESE AMERICAN REV IEW - May 17, 1941 ---
Editorial - Japanese and many Chinese see no need for fighting between
these two large Orientel powers. For this reason Wang Ching-wei deserted
Chungking, January 1, 1939, to accept the generous terms of the Konoye Gov-
ernment. China must crumble now that Japan and Russia have signed their
neutrality agreement. More and More Chinese are regarding cynically the
aid from America to Chungking, believing that its motive is to keep China
894
fighting to the last man while Americe gains time. America cannot be
fighting for democracy or it would have extended more aid to France, the
birthplace of democratic ideals; America is fighting an imperialistic war
6
to secure hegemony in the Atlantic and in the Pacific. Japan wants peace
to prevent the chaos that will surely result as Chiang Kai-shek and the
Chinese Communists split apart.
THE JAPANESE AMERICAN - May 17, 1941 ---
Editorial - The present U.S. policy of freezing toreign balances in
the U.S. is not the best policy to achieve the desired end of pressure on
the Axis. Iditorial speaks of harmful effects of this move on domestic
U.S. economy but gives no alternative policy. Editorial also briefly describes
offect of war boom on the agricultural oommunities of the U.S.
82
Feature article - Will Americe enter the war in the nert three weeks?
This is the most critical period in American history - the govermment is
tense and on a 48-hour policy, and anything can happen. Article eulogises
Roosevelt's ability and poliey of watchfulness, and is encouraged by the
current improvement in U.S.-Russian relations. America's foreign poliey is

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
一
growing more and more direct and the trend is toward willingness to use forde
if necessary. No one can te!l whether war will be declared or whether the
U.S. will enter the war without such a declaration. The opinion of the
article prophesies the latter course.
THE JAPANESE AMERICAN REVIEW - May 31, 1941 ----
Editorial - The Treaty of November 30, 1940, regulating the basis of
relations between China and Japan, is misunderstood and distorted in the
world at large. Critics find fault and look for power politics, rather than
examine it dispassionately; it is not the instrument of a victorious power,
but a treaty of alliance for mutual benefit. In actual fact it is far more
generous to the Chinese than the Treaty of Tientsin or the Boxer Protocel
which China has had to sign under foreign pressures. There is no indemnity
in this treaty wehre in the Boxer Protocol a heavy sum was imposed; there is
no cession of territory involved where hitherto Cyina hashad often to cede
concession areas; there is no bill levied on China to cover the cost of
the occupation, and Japan pledges to returm all industrial establishments
now under Japanese control to Chinese management - the Kwangtung factories
have already been returned. In Europe the vanquished has always had to
pay heavily, but here the only payment China will have to make is for
damages to Japanese property and rights - with especial reference to the
destroyed Ja anese cotton mills at Tsingtao. Japanese troops will be with-
drawn within two years after the cessation of hostilities - there will be
no incentive to a longer occupation since Japan is bearing the cost of the
army of occupation. In answer to foreign critics of such a policy, Japan
merely points to the history of the U.S. in Central America and the Carib-
bean, Britain in China and India, the British recognition of the incorporation
of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union. China can receive the needed

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
3
technical assistance far cheaper under a common yen-bloc than from the
inflated pound or dollar currency states - this will mean a cheaper
development of the resources of Chine. There will be room for legit imate
western enterprise or ecual terms with others, but special privileges will
be granted only on a quid pro quo besis. Japan fervently hopes foreign
interests will restore concessions to China and abolish ertraterritorial
privilege.
Bulletin - Nagaseki - A strcr I rc- J nc. t atmosphere, favoring
extensive cooperation with Japan, prevails in Australia, R. Akiyama, former
Japanese Consul.General in Sydney, said today on his arrival here. Japan has
sent uniforms, electrical equipment and machine tools to help equip the
Australian Army.
Feature Article - DeWitt MacKenzie, editor of the Associated Press,
bolieves the time is ripe for the settlement of Japanese-American points of
friction. The two nations must find a basis of agreement; success in this
move would terminate the China Incident and considerably shorten the
European conflict. England wotld support this pact, and it would remove
Japan from German influence. Japan is willing to withdraw from China, if
China pledges economic cooperation - Chiang Kai-shek could make peace on
these terms, if they were recommended to him by the U.S. Government. Japan
also asserts she is willing to reestablish the Open Door policy for America
and other Western powers.
THE JAPANESE AMERICAN * May 31, 1941 ---
Editorial - Roosefelt has unlimited powers under the declared national
emergenoy - this cannot but affect American economio life most seriously in
the immediate future. All movemonts of an economic nature - sudh as prices -
will be subject to the most stringent control. There is a defenite determination
in the Govermment to see that aid-to-Britain reaches its destination, and

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
4
protection of shipments will be undertaken as soon as necessary.
Feature Article - A new U.S. policy 1s about to be organized, embodying
greater aid to England in the form of training English pilots in America.
Passenger ships are to be converted to troop transports. Moves are under way
to cope with the threatened fuel shortage along the Atlantic seaboard. There
will be no more scheduled sailings of Japanese ships from American ports.
Article - Roosevelt's speedh proclaiming a national emergency - excerpts,
but no comments.
Article - The common people of the U.S. do not want war - it is merely
a small group of men around the President who are trying to force him to lead
the country into war.
Notice - Regrets of Japanese-Americans at the closing of the Nippon
Kogei(Industrial Arts Institute) - war tension is given as the first reason.
COMMSNT
The Japanese American Review - purely for propaganda purposes - obviously
intended for American consumption - constant stress on loyalty of Japanese-
Americans to American Ideals - articles on Japanese-Americans in the draft or
as volunteers - cites statements by Rotary Clubs, American Legion Posts, and
Senators in the Congressional Record testifying to the excellence and patriotism
of Japanese-Americans, especially those in the Nisei organization. Full of
pictures of Americans and Japanese in friendly poses at receptions, etc. -
The Japanese American - gives news as news - little interpretative
material - considerable emphasis of Japanese altruiam in the Greater East
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere - hint of a coming propaganda campaign to identify
China, India and Japan under the common Buddhist religion - pictures of
children dressed in costumes combining the dress of these three peoples -
captions stressing Asia for the Asiatics. Obviously intended for consulption
by older Japanese in this country.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LET
This telegram must bE
Tokyo via Shanghai
olosEly paraphrasEd bE-
and N. R.
forE bring communicated
to anyone. (SC)
FROM
Dated SEptember 11, 1941
REc'd. 1:45 p.m., 12th.
SEcrEtary of StatE,
ESTENIRS
Washington.
4
CC
C
4
1446, SEptEmbEr 11, 8 p.m.
I am informEd that thE foreign corrEspondEnts cabled
last wEEk-End a prE-rElEasE of thE tExt of thE Editor-
8
1al Entitled "Two YEar Plan", published in thE SEp-
3
tEmbEr 6 1ssuE of thE JAPAN NEWS WEEK, which trEatEd
in unstintedly critical terms Hitler's plan for world
conquEst, challEnged his infallibility and suggEsted
thE possibility of an EvEntual Nazi dEfEat.
At thE timE thE JapanEsE cEnsors passEd thE for-
入
Eign prEss dEspatchEs rEporting thE Editorial but
PS/MW
bEcausE of 1t thE issuE of thE NEWS WEEK was bannEd
from circulation after publication hErE.
E
YEsterday morning Mr. Ward H. Wills, the Editor
FILED
of thE NEWS WEEK, was called bEforE thE Board of In-
2
1941
formation wherE a long conferencE was held, thE sub-
Confidential
stancE of which as related by Mr. Wills is as follows:
HE was told that thE Editorial rEpresEnted "an
attack on Japan's fundamEntal policy" and that if hE
persisted in publishing such commentariEs thE JapanEsE
HNS
File
authoritiEs
4

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- 1446, SEptEmbEr 11, 8 p.m., From Tokyo.
authoritiEs "would havE to let thE law takE its coursE."
HE undErstood thE latter statEmEnt to mEan that his
nEwspapEr would bE supprEssEd and, from thE commEnt
that if a JapanEsE vErnacular nEwspapEr publishEd
similar articles its Editor would bE jailed, that hE
might bE subjEct to imprisonmEnt. ThE NEWS WEEK was
also accused of having displayed during thE past 3
months an unfriEndly attitudE towards Japan not only
by its Editorials but also by its nEws articlEs.
With rEgard to thE Editorial in quEstion Mr. Wills
assErted and argued thE right of his AmErican nEwspapEr
to continuE its impartial ExprEssion of opinion. HE
ExplainEd that hE could not pErcEivE why thErE should
bE objEctions to thE publication of facts and thE logi-
cnl dEductions to bE drawn thErEfrom. HE was informEd
that nEvErthelEss hE would havE to makE his Editorial
comments conform to Japan's prEsEnt policy. During
this disoussion a remark was madE, which hE felt dis-
closEd pErhaps thE most 1mportant rEason for thE Evi-
dEnt concErn of thE JapanEsE authoritiEs ovEr this par-
ticular Editorial, that thE JapanEsE GovErnmEnt had bEen
flooded by inquiries from its missions abroad as to
whether thE fact that thE Editorial had bEen pErmitted
to bE published rEprEsEnted a ohangE in Japan's for-
Eign polioy.
To the

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
-3- 1446, SEptEmbEr 11, ? p.m., F: om Tokyo.
To thE chargs of unfriEndlinfs of his papEr
towards Japan Mr. Wills stated th.t quitE thE contrary
was thE casE and that the paper on y sought to offer
constructivE criticism. HE then avE thE cEnsors to
undErstand that if they Endeavore: to makE him convert
thE nEwspapEr into a propaganda heet they would dis-
continuE its publication.
Mr. Wills gathered the iupression from thE con-
fErEncE that thE JapanEsE authoritiEs did not want
thE NEWS WEEK to bE pErmanEntly supprEssEd and dEspitE
thE admonitions madE to him 1EnotEd EvidEncE of mixEd
feElings amongst his intErvi :wers with regard to the
wholE subjEct of thE Express on of viEws in thE NEws
WEEK.
Sent Department via Shangha1.
GREW
GW

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
Gr:D.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1F
161941
1194
Jun6 5, 1941.
DIVISION OF
WIGLES
The item here attached is an
excerpt from a letter from Mr. Thomas
MiYlard dated Manile, May 21, 1941.
The statement that the Japan
Advertiser was bought at the Instance
of Matsuoka backed by a powerful
group of Japanese financial and in-
dustrial interests is plausible and
probably accurate. Toshi Go, who
was managing editor of the Japan
Times, who negotiated the purchase,
894.911
and who is now managing editor of
the Times and Advertiser, was for
many years an official of the South
Manchuria Railway Company, and his
appointment as manager of that com-
pany in New York was made while
Matsuoka was vice-president of that
SEP1 6 1941
company: Mr. Go may therefore be
assumed to be a "Matsuoka" man.
4.711
PSFR
JUN 12 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PA/H:SKH:DMZ

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser was bought at the instance of
Matsuoka backed by a powerful group of Japanese financial
and industrial interests, the idea being to have an organ
close to the Foreign Office in which their opposition to
the oolicy of the Military Party could be expressed.
Matsuoka's visit to Europe was handled in a way by public-
ity to apparently enhance his prestige; whereupon the
Times and Advertiser begen a series of oublicity buildups
FW 894.911/84
to test the strength of their influence. Then followed a
series of obvious "fakes"; first, the suggestion that
Matsy visit the USA at the invitation of the US Govern-
ment, which was twisted into & suggestion emanating at
Washington which Matsy turned down - this of course wes
after it was apparent thet Washington wes entirely cold
and indifferent to the idea - that was a fizzle; next the
Times and Advertiser advanced a plan for the USA and Japan
PSFR
to "cooperate" in restoring peace in China, couched in
vague terms - but the Military Party promptly sat on that
idea; next the Timee and Advertiser came out for a compro-
mise of the China adventure with Chiang Kai-shek - within
24 hours Matey wes told by the Army to contradict at once,
which was done and the paper came out strongly for a fight
to a finish in China and the legitimate extension of
Japan's hegemony in Eastern Asia; since then the Times
and Advertiser has done nothing of significance except
continuously to spread rumors and raise a dust.
Net

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Net result of it all, the Militery Party still is in
cemplete control of the Tokyo Government and its foreign
colicy. Well, we have known that for several years.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
894.911
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
KAIGAI DOBO publication •f Overseas Japanese
Central Society.
Translated copy of first issue of -, dated July 15,
1941.
894.911/
85
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Letter
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Dated
Oct.11,1941
From
Justice Dept.(Heever)
D6X
PS/MW
File No. ..894.2021l Overseas. Iapanese Central Seciety/4.
U. B. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840
AB

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
894.911
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
apanese seven- oint progran o: denands
in un ted States to resolve tonse
situation in racific, puolished in
JAPAN TI S AND AVERTISER.
394.
"ith rerard to -, surrests lines al one which
con ent snouid be made to roreien frice
on uncomprumising and truculent tone of
articles appearing in apanese press.
5
8
9
ad
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel.4716.7pm
(Deepatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Dated Lov.5,1941
To
PS/MP
Japan
711.94/2423
File No.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.93)
N
BY COURIER
EMBASSY OPTHE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Buenos aires, arcentina, January 7, 1945
Central Iniorration Cffice
(C.I.(.) Renort
Y HAER) ESTABLISHED
IN JAAN.
The Honorable
The Secretary of state,
Woshington.
ir:
I have the honor to renort that a despatch appear-
ing in the 1ocal Japonese press on January 1, 1943
894.911/87
states that two or the larest dailies in Japan, nanely
the Tokyo Nicli Michi Shinbun, nd the Osaka Lainichi
Shimbun have amalcanated uni  re to appear fron January
1, 1943 under the nme or the a inicni shimbun.
51.1
V
It is not unlikely thet : paper shortage in Japan
has caused the analganation.
Ir. Saburo SUzUkI is the Buenos ires representa-
tive of both of the forer newspapers.
Respectfully yours,
For the mbassauor:
t
James W. Gantenbein,
eco
Secretary of Embassy
FEB 201943
FILED
File 820.02
Dup.
GW:ek
ADVISER
PS/JW
2Copiee
PARTMENT OF
2
71
4

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.82)
00Benstme Ore.
Juine 111943.
W. Traublin D. Noneelt
Presrdenh 7 the United States,
Noshigtn, D.C.
8
De Pim Nonelt
94.
21
lan mailing
6
You coonder seperate coser some
in The year 192c Thinlinng they
mighs he of interest to yon espocialy
The edite al ni the poper dated
Cactoteraochr
of land in Jopon.
ack'd
2
1943
M
That yom milf be sustained an this
time if grest tril
vile
Lam

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 19, 1943
LES1
JWB:
Reference Japan Advertiaen ofi October 12-
17, 1920 presented to the President by Miss
Liilian J. Mitchell, 5200 Blackstone Avenue,
Chicago, under covering letter dated June ll,
1943.
do
The article to which Miss Mitchell call
attention, in the Ootober 17 1ssue, 1s a
translation of an editorial in the Tokyo
Nichinichi concerning the oriticism then
prevailing in Japan of our land laws and
immigration regulations. The editorial coun
sels the Japanese to be reasonable in their
approach to these matters and asks whether
Japan allows Americans to own land in Japan
and how the Japanese would like Chinese
coolies to come flooking into Hokkaido. It
also observes that the narrowness of Japan'
territory does not entitle Japan to demand
that a country which has wide territory
should afford accommodation for Japan's sur-
plus population. The other 1ssues contain
translations of Japanese articles regarding
the "Hunchung Inoident". Korean revolution-
aries in Chiengtao had just raided and
burned down the Japanese Consulate in Hunohw
and Japanese had crossed the border to operat
against the Koreans. At the same time the
Japanese Government had sent a note to the
Chinese

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Chinese Government asking that a joint
Chinese-Japanese military expedition be made
against Chinese bandits and Korean revolu-
tionaries eastern Manchurla. The editorials
generally are critical of the violation of
Chinese sovereignty and express fears that
such active violation, especially if pro-
tracted, would impair the Chinese-Japanese
relations as well as Japan's relations with
the western powers.
In the October 14 number is published
a letter to the editor from an American
Missionary in Korea describing the contimu-
ing harsh treatment of Koreans and the
awful conditions of jails for Koreans in
Korea and oriticizing Japanese polioy and
administration in Korea.
The Japan Advertiseh in question have a
historical interest in the contrast they
present of the mood of Japan in 1920 and the
mood in the past decade.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
June 21, 194
In reply refer to
FE
MI
My dear Miss Mitchell:
Your letter of June 1l, l943, addressed to the
894.91
Prosident, togother with the copies of the Japen Advertiser
of Ootober, l920 whioh you mailed under separate cover,
has been referred to this Department.
The contents of your letter have been noted with care
and the spirit of helpfulness which prompted you to bring
8
8
the above mentioned nowspapers to the Govermment's
attention is very much appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
LES
Laurence E. Salisbury
Assistant Chief
S
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
/DMG
JUN
CR
211943F
Miss Lillian J. Mitchells
5200 Blackstone Avenue,
A trea cepy el
Chicago, Illinois.
the dgnad 
e.g.c
FE:EC:MS
FE
6-19-43
Jm1)

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
D+
DIVISION OF
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HM
PLAIN
Bern
FROM
Dated November 6, 1943
Rec a 6:38 p.m.
OF CURRENT
Secretary of State,
DIVISION
LIAISUN
Washington.
tohows
6958, s1xth.
German press features Domei Agency report activity
Japanese authoritiee establishing foreign language
newspapers under direction Japanese agencies Japanese
occupied territories.
894.911/
Dome1 Agenoy now issues 1l newspapers Singapore;
3 Chinese, 7 Malay, 1 English language and in Malaya,
5 donJapanese dailiee Aeahi 1ssues 8 nonJapanese dailies;
Mq7
1 eemiweekly in Java, 4 dailies Batavia, Soerabaja and
6
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Semarang. Mainich1 issues in Philippinee, Celebes and
COMMUNICATIONS
DATSHON
AND RECORDS
Hainan 12 dailies, and 6 periodicals, of which 5 English,
6 Japanese, 2 Chinese, 1 Spanish and reet in various
NOV 1 7 1943
languages. English language papers temporary then to
be discontinued.
Most important papers considered MANILA SCHIMBUN
(MANILA NEWS) JAVA SCHIMDUN, CELEBES SCHIMBUN and
BCHONAN SCHIMBUN. Japanese language papers published for
troops appear mornings; foreign language papers evenings
using news service Japanese morning papers.
WTD
HARRISON

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
Dear Burton:
As soon as we received your despatch no. 1909
(R-1774) of December 2, 1943 "Transmission of Issues
of the Japanese DOnEI News Bulletin in Turkey" we
894.911/92
checked with the Division of Japanese Affairs as to
whether the same information was being received from
other souroes.
The Division of Japanese Affairs has replied
that the Federal Communication Commission's Broadeast
Intelligence Serviee issues daily reports containing
the same material and that in their opinion these
cover the needs of all Washington agencies ineluding
those of the Department.
That seems to be the story.
With best wishes,
Sinserely yours,
Foy D. Kohler
Burton Y. Berry, Esquire,
Amerioan Consul General,
A true copy pf
PS/HWL
Istanbul.
the pianod ephai-
894.911/92
丁h
FEB
OR
NEA:FDK:MW
1/27/44
RD
1944

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.93)
NO. 109 (R-1774)
00 2M 4 08
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
AND REGRDS
File
OF THE
UNITND STATES OF AMERICA
NE
AMHRICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Istanbul, Turkey, December 2, 1943
SUBJACT:
Transmissionof Issues of the Japanese
DOMEI News Bulietin in Turkey
THE HONCRABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTOF.
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit some copies of
the deily Japanese DOwEI ne bulletin that were
issued in Turkey during the month of November.
These issues have been received through a private
source and it is hoped that they may continue to
be available. Aside from the war communiques con-
tained in the bulletins, there are items upon other
subjeets that may interest the Department. However
if the same information is being secured elsewhere
by the Department, this office would appreciate
FOK:2/1144
being advised.
Respectfully yours,
Burton Y. Berry
American Consul Jeneral
Enclosures:
nee'd rw
Some November Japanese
hews Bullotins
Tide en
To Department in original
and hectograph
File No. 820.02
RMM :mp
Wocto sont toD

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
BULIETIN D'L.FOLALIONS
"Agence Lomei"
Kobe :
Ankara,4 Novembre 1943
Un groupe de 2l italiens de Kobe se rúunirent le 28 octobre dans la
résidence de Gennaro LiguoRi,président de l'ancien parti fasciste
pour ls zone du Jepon occidental,et jurèrent leur fidélité au gou-
vernement républicein fasciste Gennero LiguoRi fut élu président de
le nouvelle seotion du parti républioain fasciste pour le Jepon ocoi-
dentel.
Shonan :
Le couvernement provisoire des 'Indes Libres"envoya des télé-
erammes de remcrciement à Mr.Mitsuju Toyame petriote japoneis bien
connu et au Linistied des Arfaires ttrangères du Gouvornement Natio-
nal de Chino, Mr.Chu Minyi pour los remeroier des télégrammes de féli-
citution envoyés par cux è l'ocoasion do la formation du gouverne-
ment provisoire des "Indes Libros".
Bese Jeponeise on Birmanie :
Dans le nuit du 31/10, une unité jeponaise repoussa immédiate-
ment des troupes armács de Chungking expódiées aux Indes,qui tentè-
rent de contre-attaquer les positionc japonaises dans le voisinege 
Tankakok è 50 kilomètres au nord-ouest de Myityina. Les troupes de
Chungkine qui taient commandées per un officier eméricain,prirent
l8 fuite vers l'ouest en abandonnunt plus de 30 morts sur le terrain.
Cette tentstive est considérée comme un geste des forces anti-existes
de l'Asic sud-ouest pour venir en aide è le 3sème division de l'Armée
de Choungking qui ost sur le point d'être complétement anéanti par
les forces jeponaises sur le frontière sino-birmane.
Johore - Bahru :
On &prend que l'Association Clinoise d'Outre-der en informant
que le moivcmunt destiné è faire dee dons d'avions aux foroes jepo-
naises, qui e développe eussi en Waleisie,a décidé de ramy sser une
somme de 1co.00o dollers qui scront utilisés pour l'achet d'evions
de guerre.
On epprend,d'autre part, que sur le proposition de rs. Huent
Changyi,directeur de l'associetion Chinoise d'Outre-or,il a été cons-
titué un Camité qui s'oocupore pour la donation d'avions e guerre
aux foross armées japoneises.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.95)
Se ieon :
L'enthuslesme pour  culture physique d vient de jour un
jour plus grand en Indo-uhin frang is .L nombre de studus qui était
de oo :vent 1 untre pacifique dus troupes jeponoises un Indo-Chine,
a attcint actuollement lc nombre de loo0.En outre,on compte aujourd'
hui 168 piscines de natation eu licu de 23.
Depuis le création du " Burcau pour l'Education Phycique "
pour lcs jouncs cens dans le Gouvernemont Gónéral de l Indo-Chine,
la culturo physique est dirigée per co nouveau burcau ut lc nombre
des brovctés dc l•Ecole Supérioure d'éducation physique,qui scront
minitcurs prochainement,so chiffro actucllement à 700.
Les autrcs 25 écolos d'éducation physiquo formèrent,per illeurs,
plus de 1.l00 6loves.
L'augmontetion du nombre do sportifs,qui atteint 1l00.000,est
notammont romerqué; ce ohiffro est dix fois supérieur à cclui de
1'anné0 1940.
On peut voir portout dos jounes gens français et annamites
qui s'ontreinont emicelemont sans :uounc distinction et evcc ls même
discipline.
Bangkok :
A l'occesion du 8òme anniversairc do la fondation de la Soclć-
té Nippon-theilandaiso, uno réunion fut oreenpsée dans lo purc Bongkok
pour célébrer l'incorporation des 6 tets de le rúgion melsise du Chan
au torritoire thailandais.
Assistor nt à cotte réunion lo Col.Chawongsek Songkhram,pré-
sident dc le Société,lo inistre Tciji Tsubokemi,l'Ambessadcur du
Jepon,ainsi quo de nombrouses personnclités nippon-thailendoisc.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
Ankere,Noventer 4,1343
Shanghai :
Masayuki Tani Japanese embassedor to China arrived here this
afternoon to confer with local Japanese-Chinese authorities.
Japanese base in Burma :
Japenese force et night 31/10 inmediatcly repulsed Chungking
army unit which had been dispatched to India when the latter attemp-
ted counter-attack against Japanese positions in vicinity of Tanka-
kok fifty kilometers north-west of Myiykyine.Chungking unit comman-
ded by American officers left thirty dead in battlefied and fled
westvad.This ettempted counter-attack is believed to be gesture on
part of anti-Axis forces in south-vestern Asin to aid Chungking
army's thirty sixth division which is presently on verge of being
completely routed by Jepanese forces at Sino-Burma border.
Japanese bese in south Pecific :
Jcpanese naval intercentors in morning of z/ll shot down one
enemy beau fichter out of formetion of eleven twine-eneined Bristol
beau fighters and north American B25 bombers which attecked Jepenese
base et Trangen island.Two other enemy plenes,heevily damaged,fled
trailine bleck smoke.Previously on 1/ll Japanese fighters success-
fully repulscd tvo enemy attecks cer:ied out between evening and
late et night on Japanese positions at Pomele elong shore of Boni
gulf in Celebes.Attacks were mace by 4 Cunsolidated B24 bombers.
Shenghei :
Sino-J penese allirnce pact is not the end of efforts made by
Nationel Government of Cnina with Jupanese but just another miles-
tone elone rocd of complete renaissance of the nation "Chun: Hua
Jih Pao" editoriuly seid this morning.On the contrery conclusion
of the pect should spur Chinese grester efforts.In the first place
totally restored Chine will be a great netion while Chung ing conti-
nues dancine. to command of Anglo-Americans in losing war. It said
to restore peace Sino people must he:ln Jepon in Esst hsia war and
with military progress they will win Chungking people to reelization
that they are among Asiatic peoples.It was pointed out that China
is not elone.Chine has shuken off shackles of Anglo-Americans and
developed the strength to remain independent forever.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
MacGssar:
Remarkx bie preeress which marked various phases of industrial
educaticnal cultural activities of Menado Minahsssa peninsul: north
Celebes during one year and seven months since inauguration of Japa-
nese administration described by Japenese edministrator.Japanese
official pointed out noteworthy strides have been tuken to acquire
self-sufficieney of foodstuffs in Minahasse districts.It was stated
that they heve boundless confidence,friendship and respect toward
Japenese and neturally they ore extending whole-hearted co-operation
to Jepenese administration.Conunonting speedy economic recovery which
hes been taking plec: in Menedo and its surrounding districts admi-
nistrator said development of netural resources in Celebes is in full
swing with stress on increase of foodstuff production.It was added
similer progress has taken place in cotton plenting which is expec-
ted to make Celebes self-sufficient in textile materials in neer fu-
ture. Japanese administrttor reported thet Celebes is one important
trecsure house of fishery products and wenado is now supplying quan-
tities of Bonito yellow fish,salt and other equatorial products to
neighboring regicng Side by side with economic development notable
progress is being witnessed in educational cultural activities with
four highschools elready opened in Tomohen under Japanese administre-
tion.It was added thet native people ere extremely enthusiestic to
learn Nippongo and thinghs of Jepen and only one Jepanese laneuage
school in Menedo is now &iving classes dey and night with hundreds
still on waiting Jist.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
1O1161
Ankara.5 novenbre ly12
Tokio :
La Grande fusmble historique ce nation: do le plus Grande
Asie qui a t corou e cs matin, a réuni cans une cordiale atmos-
phere 41 représent nt, officiels.
A cette Assembléc participe aussi lo Gouvernement provisoire
des "Indes Libres".
Le salle speciuse tait simplement meublée avec une table et
3 pots de plentes. I. toble t it recouverte par un drap vert et les
emblemes netionamx placés sous-verr inciqués les places des repré-
sentants.
Le premier ministre Tojo cuvr l'Assenblée par un discours qui
souhaita la bienvenue aux dél'cués et sur le proposition du Prince
Weng Waithayokon, l'Assemblée accepto a l'unanimité de nommer 1e
Premier Tojo président de cotte Grt nde assomblée des Nations.
Les dél  ués prirent place ensuite autour de la erando table,
è droite du Pr sident Tojo prirent place Wong Chine Wei, le Premier
Chang Ching Hui et Adipadi Ba Luw; à su gauche prirent place le Prim
ce Waithayokon, 1. Irésident Josenh Lourel et Subhus Chendra Bose.
Les autres représontauts se plocèrent derrièrc leur délégué.
Un système d'écouteurs permit à chanue représentant de suivre
attentivement chogue discours qui fut prononc.
Durant la mstináe le Premier Tojo prononça un discours qui fut
suivi par ccux du Prisident Wung Chin Wui ot du Prince Waithayakon.
Aoros le d jeuner, la Conférenco dus délégués reprit immédiate-
ment à 13 h. et los déléguss du Mandchoukuo, des Fhilippines et de
la Birmanic prirnt respectivement la porole.
Au cou: d cotte Assemblée seuls les Chefs des Missions pronon-
cèrent des
 ;ours qui furent immédiatoment traduits par dos fonetion-
naires qui  taient placés à côté do chaque orateur.
Par l'stt ntion évidente que chaque Délégué prôtait aux disoours
on avait l'impre sion que cette Assemblée était une "réunion femilia-
le" où chucun dúmontrait de le sollicitude pour lo bion-être de l'au-
tre einsi que le désir de collaboration pour la poursuite de le guerre
pour la plus grande Asie Orientals tt pour la construction de la
sphère de co-prospérité commune.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.92)
Tobio:
LAsent ao1 p ran i urent le com-
pren nt: I  pon, 1 Mandehou ouo. 1 chin. 1 Th i nde. lt Bir-
mani ut lee philippn s, est detince è m ire conneitre a l'inté-
ricur et  l'cxtéricur du Poys, I volonte immu t1. duns le poursui-
te victorieuse de 1:  uerr conmunc ct du désir de construction ot
de coopir tion dus popul tions  I'Asi. Orient le qui ettcicnet 1
millierd, fut cuvert cu m tin dons I erunde Selle dcs Conférinoes
dens une i tmosphore ais plus intimes meis en même temps dos plus
solennelles.
Le fuit qu des personnelites éminentcs r sponsublcs dos Etets
Indépondants se réuniront n uno Ass mbléc aussi nombrousc en cxpo-
sent leurs opinions sur lc commun idcal d. construction, constituc
une rârcté cn dchors dos conférences de poix ou d'rutres conférenous
intcrnationalcs spécicles et de société des Netions ct surtout à
ceuse quc ceci ce vérifi pour Ic premièrc fois cn Asic Oriontelo.
Cette asserblée se trouv diriged. dos son ouverture, per los
sentiments de sincérité t d'erdcur de sortc que lo réunion préscnta
une scòne de 1: crande famille do le plus grando Asic.
Dens lo metinie, l. promier Ministre, Général Hidcki Tojo. on
quelité de représ ntent du Gouvernement Impérial ct Président de
l'Assemblée, tinsi que 1. Prosident Wene Ching Wei, représontant du
Gouvurnement n: tionel de Chinc, prirent rospectivement le purolc pro-
nonçont des discours qui durèrent cnviron une heurc chocun.
Le Fremier Gonérel Tojo déclare notommont dens son disccurs qw
"l'étsblissement  lo justice internetioncle et do lc gerentie do
peix univurscllo qu les Anglo-Américeins n. cossont a. prtch r, no
constituont o sommo, quc lo désir de mcintcnir un ordro égoiste en
aident los dissonsions permi los divorsus nations curopécnnes ut do
rendre ét rncllo 1'oxploitction dos colonics do 1'Asic. Les Anglo-
Américcins unvohircnt politiquement l'Asic ct l'cxtorquèrent économi
querent on lui feisent pordro tout ctrtctore puci1 ct n s ment la
discorde p rmi lcs pouplcs asictigucs!
Après cvoir xposé le concoption fondamentrlc reletive ux
diroctives è suivre per le Japon pour le copstruction co 1 nouvello
Asic Oriontelc, le Promier Minitre Générel Tojo, on trsitent lo pro-
blomc dcs Indes dóclere : "commont les Angla-Amérionins pcuvent-ils
expliquer le contradicion qui oxist: ontro le Cherto de l'atlentiqu

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.92)
tiittoncin
L r  dent  mc chin ei pr ut nsuite I prole. uprès
evoir   i toute son :dmir tion pour le er ndiose teche du Japon
dens l'ém ncip: tion de l'asic, déclera : " L libér tion de le Chino
est 1: libéretion de l'Asic, t I: principe d. 1 Gr nde Asic, préoo-
nisée por Sun Yets n, cst sur 1 point d'être re lisér."Poursuivent
son discours. Vene Chine Wei déclere quc le souvereincté politique,
l'élèvetion culturclle, l'hormonic diplomotiquc ct l'cide économique
mutuelle doivent constituer le beso fondemontole pour lc réalisation
de l'union totolit ire do le plus Grondo Asic Orientelc.
" L'osprit do le Décleretion des trois pays --Jepon, Lndohou-
kouo-- ut Chine, datécs du 30 novembre 1941 * dit en terminent Wong
Ching Wei, " se rávéle netteront unc fois do plus ioi por le partici-
pation de lo Thailende, do le Birmanio ot des Philippines à cotte
Assomblćc ".

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
013
Ankora, November 5.1043
Jpne  in south rcf:
It vs mearned Jr punes roconnoiterine purty on 2/1l repulsed
ettack by num ricelly supcrior unomy force et  ori islend north-
west of choic ul island solomo s proup capturing tvo prisoners,
tw ntytvo rirles vhile n my  banaoned firty a ca on bettlefield.
Japenese pirty, le by officer lojim, vas also fired on by thrce
enemy vos-els during the battle. Enemy land units consistine of
three to four hundrod troons flcd south-ward. Japanuse party sustai-
ned no casuoltics.
By Domei militery correspondent - Tolyo :
Fightine for construction --this is speciel war for greater
East Asia. Whilc acsembly of rceter East Asictic nutions bcing
held in mctropolis for further consolidation of greater East Asiatic
nations toverd facilitating var construction, stcady progress is
elso being witnossed on fighting fronts with counter-attacks of anti-
axis powers beinE smashed complotoly one ofter enother as revealed
by Imperiel huud-querter's announcement at frequent intcrvuls. Smrsh-
ing war results announced to-day by Impcrial hoad-quertors are, so
to speek, splondid prosunt to essembly of greater East Asietic na-
tions. With unti-axis foroes confrontud vith sttlomotc in Finschha-
fon gree in custorn sootion New Guinea and with thcir operations
making no satisfectory proerese thoy eooordingly ettcmpted to make
frontsl attac! ugsinst Boubuinville islend on norther extremity of
Solomon eroup and same timo intoncifiod attack on Raboul one of our
importent str torio points in south Pecifio. In perticular eir war-
farc in thesc arces increescc in intensity sincc 17/1o. But whilc
it mt y seum that cnemy is suouring edventagoous stretcgic footing
neverthelcss remorkable oloneation of onemy's supply linc, it must
be remembered enomy lost two hundred forty plenes es well as men
therc in thcse ettecks to say nothine of scverel scores of vussuls
sent to the bottom. To bo more perticuler epproximetely onc thou-
sand crew mombers of onemy planes as woll as oight thousand crew
mombcrs of vussols end on: thousand lending troons eeeroectine near-
ly ton thousand hevc. died alrcady.  &intenanco of porfect command of
sou in south Pacific is in line with traditionel policy of our navy.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
Conelusion is thet th n r r nump upprocehus ureus of streter ical
importanee the bierer wiii he enemy losses.
By Domei militery correspondent - Tokyo :
In paragraph of Impcriel Hea-@uartcr's unnounccment 5/1l deal-
ing with night of Gazellc bey we cun find some indication of (nomy's
scrious weakncss. Thet United Stetes operetions in Finschhefen area
are not progressing us they likc is attributable to cxtreme difficul-
ty in mainten ncc of supply lino. Recent naval battle off Bougain-
ville islend likewise discloses this veak point. Mointonence of supp-
ly line is extendine over vast cxpanse of water where onemy activity
is attended by hecvy sacrifices. Necdloss to say landing operations
under such adverse conditions is infcasible without heving command
of see as well as eir. Stratagically speaking the or a in the ques-
tion is outpoint of our impregnable position in south Pocific. it is
possible for our forces to mobilize required number of troors at any
point and time we like because the ureu is inside of our inner line
of operations. Frontal attock on Rabaul Buin, made blindly by United
States forces, is suicidal for thom suffored following losses. One
laree cruiser, two dustroyors instantaneously sunk, two large crui-
sers, enothor cruiser or large dcstroyer sunk.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
1
Ankert, Nove ber 8. 1943
Tokyo :
Conpetent navallers today su merized dazzline ceries of victo-
ries piled un by Jepenese nev: 1 irforces enc curi ce craft during
six dey eriod l/lo to 5/ll in south Pacific vaters. It wes revea-
led es t us : instantrneously sin total six enemy surfrce craft
including one lurfe eircreft cerrier, one heavy cruiser, two large
destroyers, tvo laree transnorts  lso sank totel more then fifty
enemy craft inclucins on medium eircreft cerrier, four heavy crui-
ser, enother cruiser also thre- cruisers which mey have been large
destroyers, one destroyer ent rore than forty landing befges. Hea-
vily camsged two or three heevy cruisers, one cruiser or large des-
troyer, two laree transports elso two cestroyors. lumerous other
smaller craft wes heevily car ged. One enemy destroyer wes afired
when enemy destroyers vhich  cre in ra(ted confusion by Japanese
attack sterted firine blindly into each other. nemy planes shot
down totalled 250 including 27 probobles. Indioeting lop-sided vic-
tory for J&penese our losses cre only one destroyer sunk, one crui-
ser slightly demaced vhle 33 of our plenes either deliberstely crash-
dived into enemy objectives or feiled to return to base.
Tokyo :
Jepen will shortly trensfer Andemen end Nicober islands to pro-
visional government of free India hesded by Subhe's Chandra Bose
declered premier generel Hideki Tojo in rosponse to stirrine thirty
minute speech delivcred by subhe's Chendra Bose ot essembly of crea-
ter Esst Asistic notions this efternoon.
Japenese base in south-west Pecifio :
Fifteen enemy plenes were shot down in mornins 4/1l over Buin
Bougainville islend by our anti-siroreft batteries when total of mo-
re than onc huncred enemy bombcre and fightors cttemptcc to reid.
our positions on the same island.
Japanese base in south-west l'ecific :
Our nevel air en surfecc units 3/1l interceptine 21 enemy B24
bombers near Rabeul New Britein islrnd repulsed raidors and shot down
4 enemy bombers heavily damaged 2 others. One of our planos self-
blested.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.92)
Jepune
Guinea
3/11
yu.
Japenese ouse in soutn-we:t l cifie :
Our naval ai muts in mornin 2/ll raided cnomy airficld
Munda Newnt
n causine
great uxplos:n.
cr1eturto base
safely.
Tokyo :
Lin Posheng minist r or publioit/ or Noti onel Government of Chi-
ne thie efterroon urrive hee. n is  peet to attend conference
of leaders of East Asie youth  ov nants here ls, 1l  nd 13/11 in his
cepacity es chief secretery of nov nation 1 mov ment committee 
Chine.
Bukit Timah :
In response to estublishnunt of provisional covernment of free
India leading Inc ion residents in Fadong lest orning at centre1
theeter Padenf held oeremony for orgunization of braneh of Indien
independence leafu: of w t abest province of Sumatra. In ceremony
one thousand members unanim u ly adopted the resolution to extond
annout sypport to ev provisional covurinent in struggle for freedom
of Indie. Following the meeting members paraded streets demonstretin
their spirit.
Manila :
Commentine assembly of (recter E. st Asis now hold in Tokyo
Emilio Abello vicc-minister of forcien effeirs in int rview seid that
the me tine is cert: in to rosult in better understandine ene uff cti-
ve co-opcration amone pertioipetine nations. "Good thin" Abello
added "conf  e is helc this time because it gives : free and
sovcrei nal ons of East Asi opportunity to discuss c mmo problod
in rolativ. vth establishmont of eroator East Asie co-prosperity
sphere. jne no dutails of the conference yot aveiloble, it is not
possibi ut the time to say wht extont Philippins cen contribute
to the conf reneo! He conclude "we mey say with csrtainty, hov vur.
the conf r. ic is bound to clu  objectives vhicn fre netions of
East Asia vi pursur sit  il es collectivuly in order to
advancc comron wolfare ot bast Asio."

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
ERRATA
Dans le texte du présent commusiqué
il a été écrit par erreur " croiseur
de bataille ". C'est " croiseur lourd "
qu'ii. faut lire.-

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.91)
-8-
Dons lo socteur do Ichang, los unités jeponaisus
contro-ettequeront et repoussèront un groupo do 3oo nnemis
armés qu: tanterent uno att quo sur Lungchuánpao, à 20 kilo-
mètres à l'ost de Ichang, ainsi quo dos troupus onnemies com-
posées d un nombre inconnu do soldats qui att querent un on-
āroit situé a 6 kilomètres à l'ouost do Lungchuenpao.
Les umités japenaisos trouvèront 30 morts sur lo tor-
rain ot  ptr reront uno quantits d'armos ot qus munitions que
I'onnomi ubardonna sur o ehoap d betaillo.
Honoi
Sis pp rels do  vi tion oméricaino on Chino du
typo P 4o viron ttequer  mitr ijleront los faubourgs do
Heiphor.
Aucun dégot fut sub: du côté joponsis.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
BULLETIN D'INFORMATIONS
are,le a novbre 1943
Tokio :
Communiqué du G..G.I. :
Le G. .C.I. a publić le communiqué suivant sur les deux
batailles qui se sont déroulées duns le Pacirigue du Sud du 31
octobre au 6 novembre :
Bateille navole :
Dans la butaille qui sere appelle " le Bataille Navale de
Bougainville " nos forces e riennes uperçurent le 31 octobre au
large de l'ile Lono, des convois de transports ennemis se diri-
geant du Sud de la Nouvelle Georgie vers le Nord. Nos forces
navales, ppuyéos per notre viation, attagus ces convois :
Entr: i. 31 cctobre et 1o 3 novembre, les forves aériennes
de la Marine Impériale attequerent ces convcis ennemis fortement
protégés pr dss avions entre I'Est de l'ile Mono et 1'Ouest de
Bougainviije.
Au scir du ler novembre, la Marine Impériale engagea un com-
bat avec jes forces navales ennemies près de Bougainvillo. Au cours
de cette betaille les pertos suivantes ont été infligées à l'en-
nemi : 1 croiseur de bataille, 2 destroyers lourds, 2 croiseurs
lourds et 1 eros croiseur ou destroyer furent coulés. En outre
1 ou 2 croiseurs de bataille, 2 destroyers lourds ont été grave-
ment endonmagés et peuvent être considérés cumme perdus. Un autre
destroyer ennemi a étć incendié au cours de la bataille è la suite
d'une erreur do tir de 1'ennomi de lui-même.
Nos pertes s'élèvent è 1 destroyer coulé et un croiseur en-
dommegé.
Au matin du lor novombre, des forcos ennemies débarquèrent
dans la baie do Torikiji à Bougsinville et au Sud de Hammond. La
bateille est on ccurs. Des forces aériennes ennumios essayèrent
d'attaquor nos bases navales en Nouvelle-Brotugne ot à Bouguin-
vilic. Le 2 novembre à Rabaul, 23o uvions ennemis attequorent nos
forses nuvales. a D. C.A. et nos forces aérienncs abuttirent 200
aviens ennemis dont 27 probebles, desquels 127 abattus en combat
aérien per lcs avions de le Marine Impériale dont 26 prcbables,
50 ab ttus per lu D.C.A. dos foroes nevulos ot 1 probable: 23
autres uluttus pur la D C.A. terrestro.
15 do nos avions sont portés manguents.
A Buke, 1e 2 novembre, 1'ennemi attuque avec 185 avions. Notre
D.C.A. cn abattit 39.-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
BOLTNLL MORLNTLONS
Af ence Domei "
Ankara, 8 novembre 1943
Tokio :
Le C.Q.G. Ixpérial annonçe que plusieurs appareils japonais
attaquèrent le 6 et le 7 novembre des aurpdromes ennemis détruisent
ou incendient au sol environ 50 avions. Deux autres avions furent
probablenent abettus au cours d'un combet ennemi.
Les pertus japoneises se composent de 7 avions qui s'écrasè-
rent volontairement sur les objectifs ennemis ou qui ne rentrerent
pas encore à leur base.
Nos unitis militeires dans les environs de Finschhafen (Nou-
velle Guinée) déjouant plusieurs fois les contre-attaques de l'enne-
mi depuis le 30 et 31 octobre infligèrent des pertes à l'ennemi.Plus
de 400 ennemis furent tués.
Nos forces aériennes navales attaquèrent dans la nuit du 5 no-
vembre la base de Munda, dans l'fle de Nouvelle-Georgie et Biloa.
Vella Lavello, Torolina dans l'ile de Bougainville.
A Munda nos forces aérionnes dótruisirent les installations
et enregistrèrent des coups directs sur l'uérodrome.
A Biloa des explosions et des incendies éclatèrent dans les
points de débarquement ennemi et dens un groupement d'unités légères
ennemies è la suite des bombardements effectués.
Tous les avions japonais qui partioipèrent à ces attaques re-
tournèrent indemnes è leurs buses.
Dans la nuit du 6 novembre, nos forces aúriennes navales atta-
quèrent les positions ennemies è Finschhafen en bomburdant violemment
les dépôts de munitions et causant des incendies en plusieurs endroits.
Tous les avions japonais rentrèrent è leur base.
gaigon :
La nouvelle de la formetion du couvernement provisoire des
" Indes libres " est cause du grand enthusiasme des 3oo0 hindous ré-
sidant au sud de l'Indo-Chine françeise.
La Filiale de la Ligue pour l'Indépendance des Indes de Saigon
vient do verser au Bureau du Gouvernement Provisoire des " Indes li-
bres " 2.s00.000 roupies en tant gue fonds pour lo mouvement "pro-
indépendance", 13.000 piastres à la Sociétó de la Croix Rouge indienne

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.93)
En outro c tiu
unrourvolon-
taires pour 1rr nationdou.
C. informatione jout t que le Filiole de Saigon enverra
procheinement un second eroupe de volonteires.
Tokio :
La cárémonic d'inaur urs tion du Eurcau pour l'administretion
des intérêts d. le R publiqu Ii sciste It lienno ou Japon, eut lieu
ce matin à la r sence du Colonel Omero Princinini, chargé d'affai-
res de la Ré ubliguo Fascisto Italionno, ainsi que è la présence de
trente fascistes italjons de To io et de Yokohama.
Cette réunion fut tenue dans lo cour de l'embcsssde d'Italie
sous l s couleurs du nouvesu drapeau italien.
Le burcau en question s'occupere désormeis des effaires concer-
nant l'odministrution dc. int rôts itelions.
Shonen :
Représent nt des principaur journaux ces régions du Sud, 7
éminents journtlistos sc trouvent ectuellomont ici on routo pour
rejoindre Tokio où ils assisturont è le Confórencc d. la Pressc de
le Plus Crende Asie Urientalc qui uurn liou lo 17 novembre ct qui
durers trois jours.
Parmi ces journalistes se trouvent lo roprisuntent de le presse
thailandaise, birmane ct lo représuntent dos journalistes de Sumatre,
Jawe et de la Lalcisie.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
DO.E1 NL
Ankara, November 8, 1943
Shanghai :
Chinese clearing houss in Shenghsi which was re-established in
September celled the first session sinco the outbroak of China affair
today. Starting tomorrov: the nev clearing house is scheduled to hold
gussion deily from Q9.30 up to noon. ow cluaring house is the only
onc oponcd to ublic in port city.
Hsinking :
Premicr Chang Chinghui who participatod in assombly of grsate r
East Asiatic netions in Tokyo returned hero this afternoon accomp-
nicd by forcien minister Isheo Lone and other members of his suite.
Promior wes woloomcd by hielh anchoukuo govornmont officers.
Tokyo :
Quarters close to Impuriul head-quartcrs revealed d struction
of approximetoly 68 oncimy pl nos in Now Guinca sectors as announ-
cod by Iuperial hoad-quortors this  fternoon roprosents consorvati-
vo figuros of onomy loss which cr. ectually beliov d to be lare er.
Disclosing details of our air op retions vhich rosulted in sevore
punishment to tho cnomy thosc quertors said formation of our ormy
bombors end fighters on morning 6/ll succossfully c rricd out sur-
prisc raids on on my's first line eir bes s at liedzab epproximetaly
thirty kilomcturs north-wost of Nozd b. It is edded in both eir-
ficlds whorc approximetuly forty medium sized smoll plancs grounded.
It is ssid thet our reidcre, scorine direct hits on targutsy caused
big firos to stert et s vorul points cufinitcly suttine cbleze leest-
ly twenty onemy planos whuroafter our rcidors furthor corricd out
strofine att ck, blazod end dostroyed gightocn I re onemy plencs
grounded. In ccurse of the raids cnomy fighttrs took cir intercept
and our reiders shot down two F40. All our raidors r turncd to base
safely. According to the scmo quertcrs formation of our bombors and
fightors cain carriod out surprisc reids of Modzeb end enother ene-
my cirfiold 7/ll whon our reidcrs subjucted cightcon grounded lerge
and smell onomy pleneu intinsc bombing attecks. As the result of tho.
reid fires wcro started at six to ninc points resultine in dustruc-
tion of twelv. groundod eney plenes. Thescquerters further reveeled
our ruidcrs es thoy wore returning to bosc cneceod in sir combsts
with morc thun twenty cnemy fight.rs wheroof our fighters shot down
mtmmimmimaingtm

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
six ineluding two prob blus whil our bombers thumsulves shot down
ton edditional onemy fighters. Composite rosults of these two dey
cir operations supped up, firstly fifty enomy plenes dostroyed sground,
sccondly cightcen more shot down. Meantime those quartors pointed
out our land forces in Finschhefen scctor after infliotine severe
losses to onemy are now complcted for offonsive egeinst enemy. It is
added oncmy is on its part continuing reconncissance in forcc against
our positions, howover in every cuch attempt enomy hes been suffe-
reing hoavy losses at hends of our forces. In this connection these
querters refcrred to Imperiel hoad-quarters announccment this after-
noon revcaling onomy sustained losses exoeeding four hundred casual-
tios during poriod 30/1o to 3/1l.
By Domei corrospondunt -Shonen :
Sturdy ficures clad in "khako" came runnine briskly on to para-
de grounds whun I visited "heiho" (auxiliury scrvicemen) treining
center situeted somowh ro in Shonan recently. These servicumen --
mon drewn from all over peninsulo inoludine Shonen-- vwent through
serios of drills that showed they had alreedy begun rigid militery
training thet wes Eiven to avoruge Nippon soldior. Hundreds of heal-
thy youne Meley ore undorgoing treining at this center. In this manner
youths of this country and oo-opcratiny ned so that thoy may pley
active role in dofensc of thoir country and co-oporatine with Nippon
militery in wer as well as in peace.Majority of thosc youths who up
to few months bech were fermers,fishermen, clercks,school teachers
etc.today in outlook end dopurtment aro similar to Nippon serviconen
one could desire.I watched thom drilling and wus most impressed with
spirit they displuyed.Evorywhere I went I observed Malays happily and
cnthusicsticelly carrying out their dutios side by sidc with their
Nippon comrados--fooling of brothorhood secmod to provail amone all
renks.Arms drills, lone merchos,b: yonct exeroices,strenuous gomes and
terect shooting are deily role of avorego "heiho" when he undergoos
training herc.Words of commond are givon corrcctly and smertly to
them in perfect Nippon-go Japonese lenguago by thcir own ofiicers.
Despite their compr.honsive training rooruits aro allowed as often
as possiblo to go to town to visit relativcs eni frionds. Sports fa-
cilities cro too more then adoquetoly provided (nd during evening
recruits entor whole-hoertedly into ecmes liko soccer und wrestling.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.92)
Concerts :re lso h  periodielly ane tos with musical talent
ronder excellent onternainment. spirit of thrift i: uncou. ced with
result thet most "he iho" have sono suvings deposited in post-office
nd sevings benk. after sp nding ouly few weeks in training cemps
recruits slweys express gre t sctisf etion for rout me there. They
sey they find camp lif undifr.t  on vhot they I ed in their
own vill ecs.With both uxercic  rnd rood pl ntiful their bronzed
bodies cre rippling with muscle un trey viply t stify to the fact
thet ovory is fit fighting end reaay for the ection. although meny
"heiho" warried men heve no responsibilities to teke cere of --their
femilies cre being clready adcqutely provided for and facilities
are beine affored to wives and chilcren. ippon commender in the
cemp interviewed duclered "we r. coing overy thing possible for
welfere end happinoss of our men h re. With cur ful training they
ore showing every promise :nd  ill turn out to be xcellent soldiers".
8

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
TE DORT NEVS
Ankare, November 9,l94
Menila :
Addrussing reunion of Aluani sen Juan de Letran college yes-
terusy Benienos Aquino, speaker of n tional esseubly, stressed nece-
ssity of Philirpines obteinins econor ic independence efter political
frecdom. e suid, "Our most in out nt otlem now i hov to echieve
economic stability. We shoul form ne gencretion conscicus of its
responsibility to cerry out economic development in the country." Refe
ferring the need for self-sacritice durin wer Aquino stated, "inde-
pendence is not magi word in sense that it cen accomplish miracles
and turn impossible into possible. Indenenderce is creature placed
in our hands to cducete end instruot us so that e cur meke it use-
ful to us.
Tokyo :
Competent navel querters pointed out thet United Stctes main-
taining complete silence regarding recent navel operetions which
heve been proeress in south Tacific waters since nav l air engage-
ments off Hono island Solomon (roup 27/10. They Cecl: red Washine ton's
silence abouth these enteeements can only explein the fect thet Uni-
ted States navel high commane ves thrown into utter confusion as the
result of series of severo setbachs suffered by American nevel and
air forces at hcnds of Imperial Jeueneso forces. In this connection
these quarters eie highly intorested to note reports that president
Roosevelt hurriedly sumoned in Veshington emereency meeting of top•
ranking milit y leaders. Theso guerters saic reported meeting in
Washin ton undoubtedly concerned the letest phuses of naval opera-
tions in south Puoifio in view of serious setbecks sustained ty
United Statcs forces.
Tokyo :
Durile period of fourteon days since pert of e my forcc effec-
ted landing on Nono island 37/10 up to prescut more then 72 enemy
warships and other vessels including on lerge type aircruft carrier,
one mediunsized  ireroft carrier, three battleehips, five hcavy crui-
sers, fiv, other cruisers sunk by Japanese nev: I sir-forces in waters
surrounding Solomons uccordin: to cuertors close to Imnerial navy
today. Comnosito war r sults durins fourteen deys reported by nava-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
Il rs ure as follove : instantenoaualy s nk totel luven enomy war-
shios compr sint ore l ree type cireraft currier. one heavy cruiser,
four cruisers, tvo lerge typ. lestroyer, three laree type trensports.
Sank total morc than sl craft including one mediumsized aircraft ca-
rricr, three battl ships, four heavy cruisers, one cruiser, thrue
cruisers pr lergetyne destroyers, four destroyers, four transports.
one small tyye tr nsport mor than forty landing barges. Heavily
damegcd mor, than ciehtcen or ninctcen craft comprising one battle-
ship more then six or seven lerectypo cruisers, one cruiser, four
cruisers or lorectype dustroyers, two destrover, three lergetype
trensports, on. smell tyoe trensnort. In addition lare numbor of
smeller vess ls h evily demeged while cnother destroyer was efired
when enemy vereraft which wurc confused by J peneso attacks started
firing emone thcrs lves. Further it was reveeled more than 40 enemy
plenes were shot down while 4 heavily demacec. Nevellers disclosed
dameges which were inficted on our side emounted one destroyer sunk,
one cruiser slightly damuece cs woll as 48 planos which either doli-
berately crashdive? into enomy objoctives or faild to return to
base while 7 planes demaged.
Bukit Tinggi :
Markine tnother positive menif stetion of J. pan's. policy permi-
ttine southern pcoples to cdminister themselves capanese military
rdministr,tion in Sumatre today announced provincial counoils will
be set up eerly noxt morth to give Sumetra notives opportunity to
teke part in edministr tion. Besides crraneomont ronderine the popy-
ler will to be fully reflected in adninistretion accordinf to eo-
tual conditions proveiling in the islénd, two salient points are
noteworthy in tho plon outlined by hilitery administration : namely
firstly, ust: blislhmont of bureeu of welfare to better seneral well-
beine of  tives, sucondly plccine of emphesis on their political
awakening and bringing about their interest in governmant sdminis-
tretion. Accordinc to the plin s t forth by mititery eaministration,
councils vill be creatcc in cuch province comprising between ten to
thirty womb rs who will serve one yeer term also to be eligible for
re-clection or re-oppointment. Villege head masters will eloct helf
of total number of councillors vhile other h lf will be eppcinted
by provincial governors in respsctive provinoes fron amone porsons

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
of good reput tir u r of  igious and other oreenizations.
President and vice-prceld it of resucetive council will be appointed
y provineiel  overnors efter councillors have elected ligible
cundidetes rom emon th rse ves. Prusident. vice-president of coun-
cils will ruceive respective yearly sllowances of 3.z00 euilders
while counc llors will reccive l.sco cuilders. Duties of councillors
us set forth by : liitury  a inistrstion'e olan vill to advise and
reconmend ver. ous dmimistrative n tsures to gov rnment. Provisions
were also mede fer sottine up standing committees within councils
vhich will be roudy to fuct as consultative orecns for respective
governors st all tines. Meanwhile stipulated buresus of welfare to
be heeded by Indoneslans will be stablished in cath province to deal
with matters coneerning well-being or local inhabitents. It was learned
that other measuros vhereby locel inhobitents cen tak. pert in govern-
ment administration are presently being plaunod. It is understood
in parallel with "ove, militcry  am:nistrotion in plenning to enlurge
oxisting institut s for treining civil servents. Observers meanwhile
opined new mecsures vill b. enforced 8/12 s: cond anniversary of out-
breek of greater Fast Asie var. They omphesized prosent action is
another positive manifestation of Japenese government's fundamontal
policy constructing ereater East Asis co-prosperity sphere. Observers
stressed institution of new measure togother with similer steps has
already been takon in north Borneo, Meley and other arees by means of
completion of p: rtioipation of soutlern notive inhebitants in their
respective aci.istretive mechineries throughout ell perts of sou-
thern recions. It ves pointed out that the system to be instituted
in Sumatre is similer to one recently institutcc in Juwe.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.89)
LLDIFORATIS
310
Do.o1
An are, 1e 10 novenbre 1943
Tokio. 10 10/11 :
Le G.2.G. Im ári  1 once aujourd in i les résultats
complmentaires ci-uprè. s: ls " secunde bat ille aérienne de
Bougainville."
1 cuirassé qui vit té portó corm, gravement endom-
magé fut couts, 3 croiseure de ros tonnat. furent gravement
endomnagés hier, 1 croiseur ou ron d stroyer fut aussi endomma-
gó et 3 avio: furunt but s.
A nos port s dej  no cdes doiv ut Stru ajoutés 5
avions qui ne r  trereit pas à leur bess.
D' près  o commnique, l'enoomblo des résultets con-
nus do cette " s conde b t illo de Bongsinvillo " sont :
Navires coulés : 4 cuirousés, 2 croisours, 3 destroyers ot
4 tr'nsports.
Noviros ondomasés :
plus do 6 croisours do gros tonnugus gre-
vamont undorrr gés, 4 croisours  gros dastro-
yurs inc vli  ou ndom gés, 2 transports
do gro: tonn g, incendiés ou gr vument ondom-
E gés.
Avions abattus : plu: d, 15
Nos pirtos s'ólèvont au totul à 20 evions parai los-
quel: fiur.ns c.ux qui s'ubrttirsat volonteir nent sur l'adver
scir..
Tokio:
Dans lo but do félicitor ot d'axorirur 1. ruconnuis-
senou pour les éolrtantu résultets rrportts por lus unités de
surfac. du la M rine ot par I'Avi tion Impórialos d ns la " su-
cond bat illo navale do Boug invillo " at dans lcs doux batcillus
néri n.s qu1 portoront le risro nom, Ic. président do l: Choabro
Aus Roprésontonts, ir. Tudthiko Okada, unvoy u ton do la Oha
bru un t légr ir  de félieitationa à l'amiral Minutohi Koga,
Corm ud t in chof do 1i flottc conbinuo impiriclo.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.92)
Canton, 1e 10 novebre 1943
Lus curclus compátonto do choungking unnoncèrunt
sans cucune modificction los résult ts de guorre ru portés
per lus forcus jepon isus dens l: " suconde bit ills do Bou-
giinvillo " publius per le G.Q.G.Iipiri l losquels furont
transmis en tant que rapports on dét ils per tilégr mmes per
l'Agoncu Reuter.
Cott attitude ne fut jamuis priso jusqu'à prúsunt
par lo,rógimo de Chouagking ut nontro qu'il no pout pas gerdor
lo silence dov nt 1- justo ut ux ato cormunimntion du G.Q.G.I.-
Rung00n. 10 10/11 i
Lo Liuut.Colonol Sl:khepan du l'urnse netionalo des
Indas onvoya lu 9 novumbre, áu nom dua oitoyene indions do lu
Birmanie un tólógr uue de fólioitations à Chandra Bosó, Chof
du Gouvurnemunt provisoiro dos " Indes Libres " en rolution à
la décleration du Gúnéral Tojo, Premior Japoneis, sur lo trans-
furt dos flos Anduran et Nicobor, oooupóes par los foross japo-
nuisus, au Gouvurnerwnt provisoiru dos " I. dus Libros ".-

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.92)
PHLLETL.
'1HFCRTPIO:3
Agunco
Domei
Ankara, 1o 10 novembre 1943
émission du 9 novombre ( soir )
Tokio :
L. Chargé d'Afftiros de l'Ambassade d'Italio à Tokio,
Col. Omero Principini, a rompli aujourd'hui la procéduro néous-
scire boncurn nt la raconnaissance du Gouvornemunt provisoire
dus " Indos Libres " par lo Gouvornement Républicain Fasciste.
Lo Col. Principini aveit reçu lo 2 novambro les ins-
truotions d son Gouvornomont par l'intermédiuiro dos autorités
diplometiquos allomandos.
Bosa Japon iss du P cifiquu Sud :
S.lon los résultcts onrogistrés ultériouromunt, le
nombre dus vions ennemis battus per nos unités aérionnes mava-
los lors de 1' ttaque unnemio du 5 novembro contre Rabaul ost do
83 apparoils aulisu de 51 commo précedemment annoncé.
Nos forcus aérionnes navales abattirent 2 bombardiers
onnomis nu cours d'un combat livré dans los par"ges do la Nouvel-
lo-Guinds contro une formation ennomio composéo de plusiours bom-
bardiers du typ B 24. Nos unitós ne subiront aucun degêt.
Amton :
Nos unités uérionnes n.v las abattiront 1 dos bomber-
diers ennomis qui tontèrent d'attaguor Ambon dcns la nuit du 7
novembro. Aucun dommage no fut nrugistré du notre côté.
Manillo:
Joseph Laurol cccopt: la proposition lui offrant la
prósidencs d le Conférsnco sciuntifiqus médicalu qui se tien-
dr à 1.anille du 20 au 22 déoembro prochuin ot à 1 quellə sont
invités los roprésont-nts du Jopon et des autres Pays do la plus
Grandu Asi, Oriantalo.
Cetto nouvulle fut donnés par le Dr. Antonio Sison,
prúsident du l'univorsité des Philippinos qui fit savoir en outro
quo d. nombreux projets ont été soumis par das spéciclistos loocux
pour ôtra prósontis ot disoutós à la dite Conférance.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
TE
nk ra. Nove ber 10.1240
Premier Cheng Chinchul in mio ce ceity as presiment of Concor-
dia Society and on behalf of people of snchoukuo telegraped message
to prenier Tojo expressine felicitctions on historic joint deolara-
tion which wes announced durine the assembly of greater East Asiatic
nations held of Tokyo. it wes recalled premier Chene was Manchoukuo's
representetive et the assembly.
Tokyo:
Tadahiko Ckade spealer of house of representatives on behalf
of lower house to-dey cebled message of felicitetions to Admiral
Mineichi Koge Commander-in-Chief of combined fleet on.overwhelming
sea and air victories echieved by Imporial neval and eir-forces in
operetions off Bougeinville.
Tokyo :
Premier general Hideki Tojo this afternoon cabled felicitations
to Admiral Mineichi Kope Commender-in-Chief of combined fleet as well
as other fleet conmenders coneratulating series of smashing victories
achieved by Iuperial naval surface craft and nsval cir-forces in ope-
retional arees in southern Pacific including overwhelming victories
in air and naval battles off Boueainville island.
Nanking :
Following rcturn to Nanking from Tokyo after heving attended
the assembly of creator East Asiatic netions es representative of
National Government of Ohine, prosident Wang Chingwei last night
issued statement pointing out sherp contrest betvcen guidine princi-
ples of Anglo-Americe and five point of joint declaration adopted by
the assembly of greater Eest Asietic nations and stron ly ureed
Chuneking regime to awake to reslities of East sie and shake itself
from yole of Anelo-Americe. Wang Chingwei declered Vienna conference
after termination of nepoleonic var and Vroseilles conference vimed
to discuss end adopt such meesures as enebling victors to continue
oppression egeinst the vanquished while the essembly of creater East
Asietic netions dealt minutely with such assistance es ban be exten-
ded by strong power to weaker netions. They former was based on ego-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
tism while the latter rssec on moral justice. It wos asserted Ameri-
can Monros doctrine wes based on principle " Americen for Americans "
and raciel prejucices whereas principle as enunciuted at the assem-
bly calls for liberetion of Asiatic people from anglo-American opp-
ression. Anglo-Americun conforunces recently held aimed at edoption
of measures to ueintain thoir colonius ant brine oppression upon
native populetions such es colonies while the essembly of grester
East Asietic nations disoussed steps how to restore usurped interests
and to secure uxistonce end independenoe of all membar netions of
greater East Asie. Weng Chingwei declered "vieied in light of results
achieved by the essembly of Ereet r Best Asietic nstions, interne-
tionel confurence is of cpoohol maguitude. We urge Chungking to tho-
roughly think over meenine recent conference snd reflect on its con-
duet end come ovcr to our side. it is up to Churgkine to choose onc
of two courses nemely to join hend with other nations of greater
East Asie or to continue treitorous conduct to merk tho derkost page
in history of Chine."
Hsinking :
Tense determination to crush Anglo-American imperialism fore-
ver merkud the essombly of greater Sest Asiatic nations, declared
premier Cheng Whinghui, at press conferince at his ofricial residence
her: last afternoon. Chang who returned a/ll from To yo where he re-
presented Li nohoukuo at the sbove assembly stated atmosphere of co-
operation and friundship found et Tokyo confersnce was radically
different from cny samiler assembly hold by Anglo-Amoricen powers.
He saic he wes dooply impressed by obvious sincerity end zeal of all
various represcntttives. Ho deolared participation of historic confe-
rence convincce ell the more that dawn of the new cre for East Asie
has comc --new East Asie led by Jepan and besed on thicel princi-
plcs. Ho s id elthough Anglo-Americans can bc expected to continue
their sttsmpts to blook Asis's construotion, only possible outcome
is viotory for .st asie. Eo strsssed this is particulerly so in view
of tha fact East asiatio netions ere fightine for justico vhilo Anglo-
Unitoc Stutus pro motivatee sololy by solfish cgotistic d.signs.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
THE
DOI E1 TEWS
Ankara, November 11 1043
Manile :
With additionel Imperial head-quarter's announcement revea-
ling further enemy losses off Boueeinville island all Filipinos
jubilantly heiled achievements of Jepenese eir-force as baing "the
greatest since Fearl Harbor debecle".Men, women young snd old wel-
comed great Japenese victory whioh was headlined boldly by all local
newspepers. Astonishment and admiration merked generel resotion of
people who eagerly discussed ennouncements on every corner of cafe,
restaurant, office and joyously expressed gretitude to Jepan.
Hsinxing :
Premier Chang Chinghui to-dey cabled felicitstions to premier
general Hideki Tojo, navy inister Admiral Shigetaro Shinade, field-
marshel Gon Sugiyama ohief of urmy generel steff, fleet Admiral
Osami Nageno ohief of nevel eenural steff expressing coneratulati-
ons on sueshing victories echieved by Japanoee nevel eirforce in
the second air-battle off Bougoinville island. Cheng soon afterwards
received reply telegrem from premier Tojo thanking the former for
his messege of felioitetion.
Tokyo :
Subhas Chendru Bose, heed of provisionel government of free
India at tee purty held for his honor et imperial hotel this after-
noon by Japen territoriel committee of Indien inderendende league
reiterated "there is no room for compromsse between India ond Bri-
tain end the latter must be completely crushed." Boso outlined pro-
gress mode to date by provisional fovernment of free India in its
fight for Indian independence. All Indians present took pledge to
exert utmost for atteinment of freedom of their mother lend. At
comclugion of the party Bosć wes recipient of Jepanese style pain-
ting entitled "fieree tiger" done by Haruki.Nokejima.
Hongkong :
According to reports from Macao, Portuguese government there
s/ll officielly informed Meceo finarcial lendors circulation of
Chinese twenty cent silver coins to be prohibited and esked co-

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
operation of goneral public to discentinue use of this coins. It was
learned that the action was t ken in view of rise since the out-
besk of ret ter ast Asietic war in velue of Chinese silver coins
which Fortuguese administretion ha been endeevorin& at per with
bank noted iscued by E nco Nocion:l Wltramarino (Portuguese overseas
bank in Macao). It is understood Banco Necional Ultramarino bank
notes, Hongfone dollars and othor minor currencies will continue to
be in circulation.
Tokyo :
Quarters close to navy said conservative estimate by naval ext
pert places at louctly 1c.O0c total personnel loss which enemy suffer-
ed in operations of the first fourtcen days since 27/1o including
see battle off Mono island, e battl west of Bougainville island,
the first end second air-battles off Bougeinville. These experts
estimate complements firstly, l rge airoreft cerrier at l.6o0, second-
ly large cruiser at 800, thirdly ordinery cruiser εt 350, fourthly
each lerge trensport cerrying 800. Therefore totel s.so0 officers
and men are estimuted to be aboerd enemy waroreft which were listed
as "instanteneously surk" in Imperiel head-querter's announcements
includine large circraft cerrier, large cruiser, four cruisers, two
lerge destroyers, three lerge traneports. It is estim:ted leestly
helf of totel number namely 3.350 officers and men lost when above
enumerated ships sunk instanteneously. Seme expert placed complements
firstly, battleship at 1.5oo, secondly mediumsized, thirdly vossel
listed as cruiser or large destroyer at 3o0, fourthly destroyer et
150 fifthly each five thousend ton cless trensport cerrying 500,
sixthly each three thousend ton cless trensport cerrying 300.
On this basis of colculation totel 14, 750 were ahoerd those enemy
craft listcd is "sunk" in our announcement including four battle-
ships, medi ssed circreft carrier, four large cruisers, three
cruisers cr  rg destroyers, four destroyers: four five thousend
ton class transports end one smail transport. Nevel expert estimated
leastly ono third of this total number nsmely 4.915 as lost when
those shins curk assuning reneaniu two third of totel number res-
cued by othe onemy werxsft. Thereore enemy's aggregate personnel
loss on those ships listed us sun and sunk instantaneously number

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
8.265. Naval expert pointed out this figure represents the conser-
vativest estimate and there ja eood reeson to assume that ectual
enemy personnel loss is far lereer. It is edded in audition ships
sunk, enemy suffered tventy tuo or twenty three ships dameged whose
complements must be sssumed partially lost vhile enemy lost of least-
ly 404 planes. It is declared with these personnel loss added to the
above enumerated personnel over 8. ooo it is sefe nd reasonable to
place et morc than l0.ooo totel personnel loss inflicted on enemy
in those operctions.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
PILETIN
D'IOR'ATIONS
Agence Dome1
Ankara, 10 11 novombre 1943
Informations militaires :
Base Jeponaise dans le Pacifique du Sud :
Faisant suite à la " deuxième bateille aérienne de
l'ile Bougainville ", une bataillo acharnée se déroule aotuelle-
ment entre les unités navales impériales et une puissante flotte
ennemie au largo de l'fle Bougainvillo.
Front de la Chine Contrale :
Les unités jeponaiies qui commencèrent leur avance dans
la nuit du 2 novembre par une pluia torrentialle dans le sooteur
Bordlang-Tungtinghu, avançant a raison da ao kms. per jour, s'em-
parerent de plusieurs places-fortes ennomies atteignant, dans la
nuit du 7 novembre, Hungmio, point strutégiquo annemi et en même
temps important siego de la l5oème division onnemie.
Après avoir attequé durent toute la nuit, les forces
impériales occupèrent cette dornière localité do bonna heura le
8 novambro.
L'ennemi, avant de battro en.retreite ou de capituler,
détruisit la diguo do Shepingho en vue d'empôohor la foudroyante
avance des unités japonaises, mais lour tentativo fut vaine. Les
roroes impériules continuent toujours leur avance, malgré la plui
diluvianne, atteignirent un point situé on vuo de le ville do Shi-
hih qui ost une base très importent du 44ème corps do l'armée de
Chounking, situé au nord de la Provinoa do Hunan.-
Tokio, 1e 1l/11 
L: Chef du Gouvarnamont provisoire dos " Indes Libres "
Subhas Ch lura Bosé, randit visite ce matin, dans leur buroau ros-
poct.f, à 'Amirel do le Flotte Osamu Nagano, Chof d'Etat-Mejor
do la Merinu, et à l'Amiral Shigutaro Shimada, Ministre de la Mari-
ne, pour lour présunter ses félicitations pour los brillants résul-
tats rompurtés par la Marina Impériale lors dos bataillus qui se
déroulèrcnt au largo do l'flo do Bougsinvillo et out dus échanges
do vuu av.c los deux Amiraux.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
Heinkin 1.11/11
Chang Chinghui, Prumiur mendohou, un quolita a pre-
sidunt de lu sooiété " Concordia " ut au nom du puuplu mendchou
unvoya un télégramme uu Promiur Juponaie Géneral Tojo pour lo
félioiter du sa déolcration historiquo fuito ur nt l'Assomblé
dos Nations do lu Plus Gr ndo Aaio Oriunt lo qui rut dornièro-
mont tonuu a Tokio.
On so ruppullo quu lo Promicr Cheng portioipa un qua-
lité do roprósentant à cutts Assumbléu.
Man1110, 1. 11/11 1
Le rôto pour lo oblébration dc l Constitution do lu
Républiquo des Philippinus commonoura dum in la novmbre t dure-
ra 3 jours. Tous l s Sdiricus ut maisonu suront pavoisés uvuo
lu drapuau n tionul ut soront décorés, tandis quo lu monument
do ls pl o, Boto sur: illuminé touto ls nuit.
T., olou do ous célébrctions suront lc grundo réunion
qui ec tie crn dim nchu matin sur la Plccu Lunol à lrquolle
asaist uns  millirs d. citoyons, ut i. gnd conourt qui
a été org nisu poir dim noh "pres-midi ot qui sor: donné dans 1
lo at au. A o gr nd conourt p rtioipur ln mission musicalu
Jupon ieu dirigso P r Kos lau Y madn, oulebro compositour ut di-
root our u oroh jutro j pon is.
osocno-o。。

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
Ankera, November la,1.43
TnkyD:
Gretuer  st sl youth leaders conference attended by repre-
sentatives of youth organizations of Japon, Manchoukuo and China 
vas convened et Nippon Seinen vaiken this moraing. Chief repre-
sentatives ineluded Sekutaro Aschine vice-president of Japan
youth uusociation, Lin Posheng publicity minister of National
Government of China end concurrently inspector-general of youth
associstion of Chins. Attending opening session of the conferen-
ce as guests were Hsieh Tsuyuan cherge d'affaires of Chinese
embassy here, Chang Chianin cherge d'affeires Manchoukuo embassy
here, Reinhold Shulzo chief of Tokyo branch of Hitler-jugend,
U.Kyaw Myit representative of youth corps Burma and more than
one hundred othors. From 13.00 conferees conducted business
session. This evening they are guests at dinner party given in
their honor by Japan youth corps.
Nanking :
On occasion of seventy eight anniversery of birth of the late
Dr.Sun Yetsen solemn ceromony was observed at Chungshan memorial
hall this morning attended by president Wung Whingvoi, Maseyuki
Tani Japaneso ambassador to Cnina and other azis envoys es well
as high officlels of Nanking government. Amidst solemn atmos-
phere prevailing memoriel hell president Wang road message wherein
he reported to spirit of the late Sun Yatson on Chinu's sclara-
tion of wer upon British-United States, conclusion of Sino-
Jupanise pact of elliance and adoption of joint declaration at
the crs  bly of East Asiotic nations as well as proeress mede
in rucoustruction work in China. Meenwhilo similer ccremonics
wer h ia in Shenghei under chairmenship of meyor Chen Kunepo
att  a by more than forty thousand reproscntatives of peace
pre rv tion corps, youth corps, government, schools as well
af iniustrial orgenizations. In Poking north-China political
aff irs commission also observed soventy eight anniversary of
birth of Ercat Chinese statesmen by holding ceremony in prescn-
ce of lceding officials of the commission. Meanwhilc mass

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.86)
rell:
m.b ly of
11or Poking
Shone:
Dirth doy of : niy roury this y tr of ur.Sun Yote n hich
falls to-dey e loo  mon vt e1ne by chines.
porultion.
ad i al of e et fther of
Chin   e v n r tar p rt b. n roliz  through mognani-
mity of Nip on durins past t lve months. Thypicel preveiling sen-
timent we s cyne  d by Lim Chenepong locrI chinose leader who
decler d: "on the oee sion Chins. cvery wher hev special reasons
to be eret ful not only to Dr. su Yatsen vhose g(nius and petrio-
tism made now Chine po  ible but also to Nippon" Ho eddcd "as fer
as I am conccruca it is hoppy coincidence thet to-dey too is birth
day of annivereery of my father l te Lim Nee Soon who was himself
Dr.Sun's co-vouker rom initial st ge of the mov rent yo csteblish
truly indop nc nt r public of China." Concluding Lim soid "I feol
sur thot to ti'r with m: my comp: triot all to-cay chorish with
duep gretitu  und momory of thos, Chinuso natione lists vho unfor-
tunet ly ure not v th us to-dey to shere joys snd blcssines on
occusion of birth of on indepundent Chine."

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.89)
BULLETIN D'INFORMATIONS
Agonoe
Domei
Ankara, le 12 novembre 1943
Front de la Chine Centrelo :
Les "nités jeponeises poursuivenoxt leur avance dans les mhafnes
de montegne melgré la pluie torrentielle qui continue, ettrepèrent
un groupe d'unviron 500 militeires ennemis apperten:nt au 77ème
corps d'arme ennemi, dans 1a mont gno a environ 30 kms au sud-ouest
de witachi et le anéentiront completement epres los evoir encerclés.
Nankin :
A l'occesion dn 7uème anniverseire ds le nsissence de Sun Y tsen
le Nouvells R publigue fate Je "pere" de 1 Republique Chinoise.
La cérémonie s rapportant a la réelisetion des dernieres volon-
tes du "père" de le R publique Chinoise, Sun Yetsen qui créa la nou-
velle Crino epres voir torminé le lutte pánible réjouit le nouval-
le Ropubliquo pour 1 réelisotion d, l'idé. "l'Asie oriontale pour
lus Asistiquos".
Cotto cérémonie so déroule dans lo Peys entier a l'occasion du
7eème annivorseire do 1 u 1 suance de Sun Yatson 1 12 novembre.
A Nanking le cérémonis ut li " cu motin dovant ls meusolés
Chungshen à lo praaunee d. Wanh Chingwoi, chef du gouv rnament natio-
nel Chinois, dos dirigoants d, cu gouv rn mont ainsi que d l'Ambes-
sa ur du Japon,  yulki Teni st lus r pr suntents mpmh diplomati-
quus dus Peys d 1'x.
Au cours d: 1 cáremoni, Wang Chingw i fit non sans motion
un repport sur 1 réelisation du princip- d. la Pius Grand. Asio
précohisé per s Yatsso t sur lis progrès éel tents accomplis
per la nouv ll Clius dens se pirticipetion a cott. guerr, dans la
conclusion du treits d'alli ne: ip o-Chinois t jusquly d ns l
déolaretion historigue  l plus Grond. Aaie Orisntal.
Weng Chingw i prim. n mêm. t mps son immebl volonte d
tr veillir pour Iuni cation du P. ys et omonor 1 regim. d. Choung-
king, qui s 1 iss  cor. trompur per los Anglo- éricuins, a com-
prondro i vrai situution n vi d s tisfair 1 e d rjer's volon-
tés du pèr le mépubliquo chinoise.
C
L. son nniv rs ir. d 1. n iee me d. Sun Yuts a, pèr d
la Revolution chinois, fut eI bro sol nn ll m at c matin. Au cours
do la c'rimoni qui  liu ceas l sell. menorisl Ch ngshan d.
cutt vill.
Asuister nt a tr céreromi. Uhen Y o su, couv r"mr d. l. Pro-
vines  ucutuna t as moabrory hauhe fonetiorueirus. Au cours d. citt
c. rSmoni. un rp ort rut feit ur  conclusion au traite d'ulliance
ontr. 1 pon  1cin.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
THE DOE EYS
Ank-re,  ovember 13,1943
Fonang:
It was reliably learned Cut hes Chondra Bose head of provisio-
nal government of frre India selected six candidetes from Fcneg out
of batch of twentyfive Indicn youths fron. vhole in I y for military
trainin in  pn.  lected youthre nov undergoine preliminary
treining in Shonan prior to leaving for J. on.
Manila :
Accorcinr to statistics token here recently of nunber of mem-
bers of Filipino fomily it vns revealed femily of four is most nu
merous. In percent:(e fenily of four resches 14.53 percent. Femily
of five is next on list with 13. 87 per cent. Others followine lin
order are femily of three, 1.6 per  ent, fan1ly of six 12.15'per
cent, family of ccven .87 or cent. rercentece of families of from
two to eieht exoeeds eifhtyone of ferllies of from more than fifteen
thouch numerous in provincisl districts percente in nila is
1.38.
Rangoon :
" Sureriority complcx of officers of United States eirforce
in China provol ed deen animosity nong Chinese officers vho ere
threetening Chungking militery euthorities urless they im:ediately
take up measures ameliorating present feelins of entegonism no Chi-
nese officer willing offer his services to mericans " revealed se-
cond lieutenent Weng in interview. Wane who vas member of intelli-
gence corps attached to nevly orfanized thirty third division of
Chungkine's second crmy captured et point forty miles south-east
of Kunlonf state carly pert of October while trying to penetrate
Japanese occupled ares end gather necess: ry milittry information.
Wane continued "when fourteenth airforce vas orgenized in China we
felt deep (ratitude. We certainly rejoiced over errivl of United
States &irforce to China but today I doubt whether men and officers
in Chunghinf trmy still possess some werm feeline towerd personnel
of fourtcenth eirforce. Of course they h ve better airforce then we
but thet doesn't meen thet they hrve to look covn upon us. Frenkly
speakin we need United St tes co-operation but how cen we tet it

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.92)
 sneveyat n lee
rnel d Sus:irforce
inin,w
ite ract nit ed Steten airforce has
beses n hne vrenever there i. ruid by Japenese planes American
airmen try to evede J  nece sirer ft as much as pessitle. They would
even doe  ny invaaere over skir of Uniter stetes continent".
He contimra paay times vhen I heerd orinous rone of formation
of Jeptnese tonburs cscorted by iishtere they run into shelters and
always up in s ie: to challenge reiders were Chungking aircraft.
They rose only bo shot down. American officers would sey "China
alone can't fight Japtn". Citing best example of leck of comradsrip
among United St.tes end Chungking ofricers Wang disclosed "there was
sometimes guarrel between Chungkine and Americen airforce personnel
at Yunnanyi, the letter severoly vounded. Some sort trouble occurred
early pert of February when Jepanese plene: ettt cked Yunnanyi. That
time too only Cnunekin fighters went up to chellenge reiders. After
raid over certoin Chungking officer ment epproeched Americen officers
demanding expl netion hy United States circraft didn't rise to
meet Japanese. Wh n Anerican officer replied coldly you Chinese ere
not supposed to juestion. It is for us to c.cide whether ve should
or shouldn't fight". Chinese officer bccame enreged. There was big
fight and moro then ten officers both sides severely vounded. Since
then there has been feud going on botween Chinese end american offi-
cers."

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
TOENE
Arkero, November 15,1943
Janene. ta in Hopeh front :
Japanese troops made surprise ettack against head-quarters of
enemy troons belonging to com unist ei hth route at Yenshan sector
8/ll and cuptured Wang Lienfang chief of political section of the
above head-guurters and also other officers of the same corps accor-
dine to field dispetches. In mopping up operations twenty nine ene-
my dead were left on battlefield while fifteen rifles, twenty four
hand-grenades and other arms and eimunition were captured.
Japanese bese in south Pacific :
Our navel eir unit carricd out devastating raid on enemy po-
sitions on Mono islend at dawn 13/ll when our raiders bombed and
blasted enemy militury installations. This dawn reid on Mono island
followed our naval air ruiders' night atteck on enemy positions in
cape of Torokina sector of Bougeinville island ll/ll when enemy
instellstions were severely bombed. All our reiders returned sefely
to base from both bombing missions.
Osaka :
Joint doclaretion which wes recently issued by assembly of
greater East Asietic netions is " rood mark pointing to the new
world--roed mark written in lifeblood of one milliard people",de-
clared foreign minister Mamoru Shigemitsu speaking here before
thousands of enthusiastio listeners at wer fally to-night.Shigemitsu
said Asie hes been roused from "its lethargic sleep of centuries"
and "to emancipate Asie to safeguard Asie and to reconstruct Asia
is Asia's irrevoceble resolve." Foreign minister expressed supreme
confidence in victory pointing out that work of constructing greater
East Asia is leeping pace with brillient victories being won by
Japaneso force. lHe outlined four mein reasons for East Asistic
victory including: firstly,historical fact that victory rests alway
with those who fight for justice; sccondly,solid unity of nations
of East Asia behind Jepanese leadership; thirdly,fact that East
Asiatic nctions ere i ighting for universel harmony and goodwill
by following road of frecdom and non-discriminetion matcrially and
spirituelly; fourthly,fact that East Asis:s unwavering faith in its

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
cause is bound to result in reviving of old Asie ond creation of new
Asia and eventually be recognized as just even by Amorica and Bri-
tain.Gist of Shigemitsu address follows: Asis hs beem roused from
its lothargic sleup of centuries. Thoso of us who weitod with im-
patience may now heer brish: resounding tread of Aeis on march. Whole
East Asie is ewake To emaneipato Asia to safcguard Asia end to
reconstruct Asia is Asis's irrevocable rosolve. Totel strcngth of
Asia is now being concontreted upon this war for redemption of
Asis.Peoples of Asia who he vo risen to brcak once for all Anglo-
Americen yoke of oppressien they had so long ondured are united heart
and soul in thoir dctorminstion to chase blot on their osoutcheon
of Asia and writo now chapter in history of Asia Asiais now rever-
ting to its true suif. Io is not longor Anglo-American colony.Never-
theless Amerios and Britein drsaming still their old days want to
reconquer Asie They want pontrol and oppress it onee more.Why ero
our soldiers and ssilors fighting so bitterly dey and night on far
lung battlolines of Most Asis? Becauso Americe and Britein desiring
to keop tho cld order of the world and to boat and crush Asia are
sending huge expwlitionary foroes thousands of miles away from home
--even to these jungles of plague end pestilence.Asie is our home.
What is more maturel than that we should dofend Asis with our lives?
Should we lose this war we would be forever deprived of our home-
lands end medo esc oe  us man without country.Accordingly current
war which is to Am rica Pritein wer for colonies mey be called on
our side Asis:s we , of independence. Americe once upon time won in-
dependence from Er lend efton seven years herd sanguinery war. For
America to invade asio now is to ropudiste life right of her own
nation. Finel victory rests slways with just.It is immuteblo lew
of life amply demoustrated in pages of world's history.This constitut-
tes one reasou why viotery is curs. Now thet we wre winning beck Asis
by war, how ere wm te rebuild it in the moenwhile?Construction is pre-
dicated upon poncc and stability.We must therefore first deliver
Sest Asia fron Anglo-Soxon rule to sefeguerd it and ostablish its
stebility so that it will not be reconquered snd degraded onco again
into coloniul status Noxt construction must bo undertaken on basis
quelity ard reciprocity.Joint dccloretion issued by rocent asscmbly
)f East Asietio nations enuncistins to the world five greet princi-
les thet lest Asia constructior is besed upon sovoreignity end indo-
endence ant upon equelity end vecinrocity It may woli be tormed
'magna cheo of grceter Eest Asia

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.89)
Lor.i
Ank ru,le 16 novembre 1943
Tokio, 1 1
On révale que S. Iajesté l'mperour du Japon envoya le
Chambellun Fidetaune Koide à i'Ambassado do Frunca cot après-midi
pour transuuttre les condole icus impéri: les a lu famille de
i'Ambassadour do Frunco ou J pon, Ch rl-s Arsene He.iry, décédé
hier soir.
Su : ijostć l'Impér trice onvoy. aussi un mossagor
impéri 1 cet pyrès-midi a 1'Ambass do do Franc..
Informutions milit ires:
Front de 1 Chino Contrele :
Ius gernisons milit iroo J ponaigus at tionnéus dns
lus divors.; r gions uu sud du flouy Y ngtzo suprriaent uffuc-
tiviment i' ctivit; dos troupus do Choungking qui infustunt cus
régions.
Lus unitós Jupon isoa, lo long do 1: lign de chomin da
fer Cuntou-H nkcou, miront en. dórouto lo ll novombro matin un
groupe d'environ 500 rmos do la 134eme division unnomdo qu1
tunteront a'att :qur dans lo voigin gs d. i tsui, à quolqu s kilo-
mètrus mu Nord-Ou ut da Trolin daus I Province do munon, insi
qu'un b't 1llon nnumi qui tt q": Twanohan, à 22 kilomètr s à
1'ust d. Yechow ( provinco du Hunen).
A 1 suito do violont-s contre-offonsivos J pon isus
1'onn ai prit 1 fito abaadonnant 30 morts dur l. ch mp d b.t il-
1..
D ns lo sctur Asinkitong ( 15 kilonètrs mus sud-
ouast do Yocho, un, unité jupon iso rupouss it 40o armés d. 1
l4ems divisicn nnumio qui ussayèront d'att :qur S nshingmo l 10
novombr, à I' ub. L'onnmi abendonne 25 morts sur 1. torr in insi
qu'uno qu asité d'ermss t do maturiol do gusrrs.
Cupondunt, un dit chumont do rsoonncissuno. J ponais
ropúr it m groupe d'nviron zoo rmós du izèm b t illon à un
point situ a 4 kilomètres u sud-ouust d. Tuolin. Le groupe ad-
vurs: iro fut uttaquó aussitôt t l'unnuni prit 1. fuit  b naonnnnt
23 mortu sur ls torrain ainsi que dus rnós ut du matéricl a guorre.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.84)
-8-
D us lo suctour d. Ichung, los unités j'poncisus
contr - +t qar nt t repousseront un aroup- d. 3o0 snnemis
arm
r nt une t  ur Lungchu npno, à 20 kilo-
mètr
de Ieh ng. insi qu d s troups nnomies com-
o r inconm d sola ts qui tt querunt un un-
droi   lometrs à 'ouest i Lungchu inpao.
 tpo is trouveront 30 norts sur lo tor-
rain t    nt  unti c'urn t qu munitions que
1'nn 
Honoi
ti mmérie ino n Chine du
typ P4v
ior ler nt s faubourgs do
II iphor
a put coispon is

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
BULLETIN D'INFORM TIONS
" Agence Domei "
Ankera,16 novembre 1943
émission du 15/11 soir
Informations militeires :
Base du Pacific Sud :
Les unites terrestres jeponaises intercepterent et abattirent
1 des 17 bomberdiers ennemis du type Consolidsted B24 qui vinrent
survoler le l4 novembre è deux reprises des régions des iles Gilbert.
Les pertes subies du côté japonais furent négligeables.
Base du Pecific Sud :
L'Aviation de la Merine impériale bomberde dens le nuit du 11
novembre les positions de l'eunemi è Trokine (Ile Bougcinville) et
effectue è l'aube du 13 novembre un raic sur lec positions ennemies
de l'ile Mono causent de sérieuses pertes è l'adverseire.
Tous les avions jeponais regegnèrent indemnes leurs beses.
Base du Pecifio Sud :
Comme il fut dója ennoncé, l'avietion ncvale jeponaise attaqu-
ent durant lF nuit du l0 noveubre un convoi ennemi au large de
Torokina (ile de Bouceinville) coul: un trensport. Cependant, on
révele qu'un -utre transport ot 1 d stroyor furent encore coulés,
au cours ce ce reid, do sorte quc los pertos ennemios comportont
2 trensporis et 1 destroyer coulfs.
Base du Fecifio Sud :
L'aviation de le merine impárialo ettaqurnt per surprise, dons
le nuit du 1s novemore, l'1lo Funcfuti dene loe ilos Elicu, leage
une pluio dc bombos sur l'asrodrome ct sur los instellétions mili-
tairos environrantos ceusont uno grundc cxplosion ot cllunent dcs
incendies en quatre cndrcits différents.
3 gros svions ennomis furont détruite cu sol. Do le grendo
explosion s ulevoront dos colonn's d. flemmes on plusicurs cndroits.
Tous los evions j: noneis rentroront indomnos è lcur besc.
Front de le Provino  Hopuh :
Los unités d'elito jepontises opérant contrc los troupos commu-
nistes dens lc front contral do le Provinoo do Hupoh ctttquèrent
ions le soctcur d, Yushen pcr surpris: lc 8/ll le gusrticr gönércl
les troupcs onnomios du Vlllmo Corps d'arméo. Ics unitáe-jeponciscs
Epturor-nt Wang Lionfeng, ohof do ic scction politiquc ut d cutros
irigeants dudit porps d'erméc. L'onnomi ebendonne sur ls terr in
3 morts ot 13 soldats furcnt faits prisonniors.
Lo butin capturé per los Jeponeis comport. 15 fusils, 9 rovol-
ars ot 24 gronedos à main.
Tok1o :
S.M.l'Emperour du Jepon ec plût do décoror Sockcrno, présidont
du Conscil Contral de Jeve d. l'Ordre Scoré dc douxiome clusse
Dilemed Hstir ct Hodikossojume respcctivamont mombros du Consoll Con-
tral do Jev: do 1'Crdre du Trésor Sccré de troisième classo pour lour

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.91)
collabor tion d ns 1 dministr ticn. ilit: ir  non is.
Le nouvoll, sunote qu
reirides dcore
tions cut li.u è l'Hôtel mpéricl.
Tokio :
S.M.l'Empercur du Jepon se plût d r.covoir un cudienc 1c 16
novembre me tin Sockarno Présidunt du Cons il de Jeve d: ns le Paleis
do Tokio.
Menillo :
Le scrvic. tál graphaguc fut int ueuré dens 1 Province dc Bohol.
Le Burccu d. Cornunication Nonce o, de s Ir Provine. Terlee, common-
çe :ussi son s rvic téléer: phique un vlus i l comiunicction bélé-
éraphiquo dejù ouverte.
Tokio :
Lo Ministèr d. 1: Marinc unnone- cct sprès-midi 1: nominction
du contrc-emirel Shigeji Kuneko, cu posts de Ch f d'Etat-M Jor de
le station nevale de Sasoho en romplccumont du contre-emiral Masski
Ogeta qui rejoignit réc rront un cortoin poste sur ror
Le mêm: Ministeru ennonçe on outr l no inction du contre-
emirel Kenee Uussku cu poste d. Chef de 1r dircction des Affcires
Générsles su C.Q.G. do i'cviation nevul. imperislo en rumplec ment
du vice-omiral Takijiro Onishi récurmont nomré chef du burocu des
Affr ires générc les è le dircction des ermemonts de l'avistion cu
Ministèro dos munitions.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.85)
Ank ru, 1e 17 novombre 1943
Intorltvires
Tokio, lo  rov rit :
I  0 c Inpérial annonga aujourd hui à 16.30 h. :
L'aviation e lo Irrimo mpérielo a répéré et attaqué à l'aube
du 17 ne onmre des unateo  t tus ennosnies d ns les caux méri-
disnales ee  e du Bum, iivtlio. Los résuttuts obtenus par
I aviatier nevaxe imperi lo ons oté les suivcnts :
Navires coulos :
1 cros porto-uvions inst nt: nénent coulé.
2 port ons poyens
3 er 8or
1 ro n v do morr ennomi dont le typo
n': p s tć idntifié coulé.
Les pertus j: penatoes comportent 5 vions qui ne
rotourneront pednt à lour cnn.
Cotte b t ilie prondra le nom do " cinquièmo Batail-
le érienno   rge de  Si de Bouguinville."
Base  pon se du Pesfign sd:
Los urités j pen ises ub ttiront 15 bonbardi rs onno-
mis du type B es ot B s sur lus o c vions ennonis qui vinrunt
attaquur le 15 novubre vers 6. -h. los environs de M d ng, les
formations unnelius cumprun int dus  vion, de chasse.
D' utro port 4 avions onneilis furont ab ttus d ns lo
mêne soctour por lis uritós ninpoñus sur los 53 vions, conpre-
nont des avions du type B 34 ot : arpo P a gui offoctuerent
In mone attuquo 8 ont dse aeoooccus per mes unités.
Base 1 pon is d na Pof quo du Sud
Los ohassouts onnonis rencontrèront un hydr vion du
bonb rdu uit unnola du type onsolidted PB/2/Y d ns lus onux
dos uluntours do 1 fio Nauru ot I'abnttiront. Auoun dógêt du
côtc j pon is.
Hono1, 10 17/11 
Qu lquus chassours apparton:nt aux forces óriunnus
nóric inus on n no pónètrèront du Nord do l'Indochino françci-

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.81)
…2 
1. 1e novbr pond nt une h ur trt.  tir de 22.30
urs rol nt io soetour d i not per 1 per-
f at, coll bor tion ccri nne nippon- nuoth mo se, los vions
i ric ins priront 1 fuite s ns voir pu tt indro l ur but.
Hongkonn..ll6/11:
i. for: tion de plus de lo bo ib rdi rs t ch ssours
dos fere  rie inos on chin tont i, survolor cst pres-
nidi io d,sor.ot de hongkong
En Tut cup.nd nt ropoussc p r 1. fun do 1: D.C.A
j pono so ut int reertso p r un fu d b rr g do 1 DCA
j pon is  for. ton onhori prit 1 tuito près voir I ncó
sushobs un piine r.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
八n
November 17,1943
To!:yo :
Government to-day ann ounced appointment of three additional
cabinet edvis rs lieut-eeneral Tejchi Suzuki former president of
plannins oord, ouhisuke ikova former pr gi ent of Manchou indus-
trial development company/Keita.Goto vice-president of Tokyo chember
of conmerce and dustry. Government reached the decision for new
appointments folioving resignetion of cabinet caviser Cinjiro Fuji-
were who vas ppci.ited stats minister. New eppcintments increases
number of cabines saviscr to ten.
Tokyo:
First dcteils of spectaculer bettle off Bougainville islend
et dewn this nornine wherein enemy task force, mein strength whereof
three aircreft carriers, was wiped out were revealed this efternoon
by competent neval querters on heels of Imperiel head-quarter's
ennouncement. It wes revesled thut it wes dewn this morning when
our nevel uirforce spotted povorful enemy taskforce composed of three
eircraft carriers with protective escort cruisers and other wervessels
Enemy fleet steeming et point several scores miles south of Mupina
point Bougainville island. Navallers disclosed Japanese naval torpe-
do plenes on receint of information of position of enemy fleet sped
off on missior of destruction just as dawn was breaking. Boring in
on enemy fleet Japanese planes loosed deadly torpedoes with amazing
accuracy. Result of powerful attack is one lerge enemy eircraft
carrier sunk instantaneously vhile two other medium aircraft carriers,
three cruisers, one warship of undetermined category &lso sunk.
It wes dcclarcd sinking of all three enemy aircreft carriers compris-
ing bach tone of enemy fleet in single stroke is r cord that's the
second oniy to amazing feet of sinking four sircr&ft cerriers which
was acccnlished by Jepanese neval forces during neval bottle of
south Pifc in October lsst yeer.
Bangko
'fi ally it was announced yesterday colonel Nomsak Pholarak
member of aray generel steff under date 3/1l has been appointed mtm
military tteché to Thei ombass. n Tokyo. He succeeds major-peneral
Solakit Fhisien who was reliev:  the post due to iliness. It was

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
learned prior to outbreak of greater East Asia war colonel Nomsek
Pholarak was militery attaché to Thai embassy in Berlin.
Tokyo :
Unparalleled in naval aneis have been series of crushing de-
feats dealt out to enemy force? by Japanese surfece and naval air
units in series of naval encounters off Bougainville island and off
Rabaul during twenty day period between 27/10 and 17/11, querters
close to Imperial head-quarter's declered to-day. It was asserted
smashing triumph achieved by navel airunits carly this morning which
was ennounced by Imperiel Head-quarter this efternoon reises total
enemy ships sunk to 47. It was rocalled cnemy ships sunk instanta-
neously --those sinking within two or three minutes after being hit--
thtalled 15 vesscls including two large aircreft cerriers, two lerge
cruisers, five cruisers, one other cruiser or lerge destroyer es well
as two large destroyers end threo large trensports. Also it was re-
called enemy ships sunk include 32 warcraft comprising four battle-
ships, thrce medium aircraft carriers, four lerge cruisers, four
cruisers, thrce other cruisers or destroyers, ono lcrec wership of
undetermined category, six destroyers, six trensports, one large
warship of undetermined category, six destroyors, six trensports end
ono smali trensport. More than 40 other miscellaneous wer-vessols
have beer sent to bottom during these twenty days. It wes added damsg-
ed enemy warcraft are 32 or 33 including two battlcships, two large
aircreft carriers, onc medium aircraft carrier, ten or elcven largo
;ruiscrs, ono cruiser, eight other cruisers or lergc dostroyers, three
cestroyers, three largo transports, one medium transport, one small
ransport. It was pointed out that one other enemy destroyer wes
ameged and eblazed when enemy warships during confusion causcd by
 ttle --during second bettle of Bougainvillc island-- fircd against
 ch other. Bosices these heavy losses to surface craft, these
erters pointei out, enemy also lost more than 5l4 war-plenes while
others heavily damaged. It was pointed out thet during twenty
5 y period Japanese losses consier.d of two destroyors sunk, two
uisers shig p deraged while i. lencs cither doliberately crash-
i. ved into omest ub, o iives or fa: lou so return to their bases.
I wes added rovon Vapenose plepos wore elso demeged.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.87)
ULL JTI
D IN PORI ATIONS
A  ne Lomei
Arxura, 1e 18 novembre 1943
Informations do guerre :
Tokio, 1e 18/11 :
Lu G. Q. G. Inpérial unnonça à 15.30 h. :
L'avi ticn de lu  urino Impériale uttaqua de bonne heure le
17 novembre un convoi onne1 dans les eaux aux large de Toro-
kina nclgré le résist nce l'une trontaine d avions qui patrouil-
laient et livr un combt erin à son retour contre environ
uno contuin, d'avions ennenis.
Lu cours du combat, l'aviation jponise a remporté
los résultats suiv nts 3 noyens ot petits tr nsports onnonis
coulćs, un petit tr nsport endormagé ot i dustroyer enneni incen-
dić. En outre doux avions onnunis furent ab ttus. Uno oxplosion
out lieu à un endroit de déberquunent unnoni.
Los portes japon ises comportont lo evions u total
co pris coux qui s écrasèrunt volont ironent sur los objoctifs
do 1'unneri.
Base iapon iso du Pacifiqua Sud : ( 18/1l )
Tus aités auriu s do la Maria Dupériale attaque-
rnt à 1  b. cu 16 nov: br duux chalands qui stetionnés au
Nora c i Nomv llo-Guinés. Un chalnd fut couió ot 1'autro grn-
vorent no: ume.
Bano ponniso du P cifiqu Sud : ( 18/11 )
Los unités turroatros jeponaisus de l'flo Ballal.
au sud de 1'flo co Boug i villo conttirunt 4 des 7 chassours
unis is qui survolerunt l'flo d. B l1-lo lo 16 hove:bro.
Dick rta: 1 18/1:
un prrond qu'un proniur groupe do 7o volont irus
pour  rdo Nattou io Indionno choigas parmi los Indions rési-
dene  jawa e wee cort pour shonan ( ex-eing pore )
290/
T noo r' or int rvonu untro 1: B ngu do lo Mongoli
int Y spesio Bank soneer Lus opérations
do r n v p ou son o  conclusion
de c  r r  erraonene au o p mom cormorciel
ontr d ugol rouro, lo chino U os Hugkong.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.87)
 2 ~
Hankine: 1e 111 :
Subhas Chandra Boso, Chef de l'Etat du Gouverne-
ment rovisoire dus " Indes Libres " se trouve sur l'invita-
tion du Gouvernoment National c1 Chino. Après avoir passé
une mit, Boso visite le tombean de Chuncshanlin du Dr. Sun
Yatsen par nr tional de la Chine.
Dans l'anrès-midi. Boso su rundit au Q.G. dos for-
cus xpéciornaires un nin pour fuir une visito au Géné-
rel Chur Jata. Coumenant on ch f aus torsus Japonaisus.
Il rundi aussl une visiro à M. Mesayuk. Tn.. Anbessadour
d Japor à i anking.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
Ar. ovenber 18 1943
Melecca
It was leained one hundred selecten locel youths will be sent
to Shonan to receive six month: treining et Shonen nevel airoroft
ersenal. Upon finisaine course youths vill beconc rirst technical
assistent anc be given suitabl c loyr nt. It i, ur erstood Malaoct
employmont at eney i nov loldinr eatr nce exami. tion ror oll candi-
dete for traininc.
Tokyo:
Current wer is beine waged for emencinatjon of East Asie from
Pritish-United Stetes' (reed ror worla': hegu ony, declered premier
Hideki Tojo at luncheon party "here at he was host given in honor
of represeutetives of assembly of ereater est Asiatic newspapers at
his officiel residencr. "eiterating  ims of curront war premier Tojo
stressed Jupun is fir htinr Jor construction of / reater East Asia
bescd on moral and justice so that As ctic peopl: may enjoy co-pros-
perity free from Anelo-Americen mbition to colonize  st hsia. He
continued amidst fury of unprec nd Atly large-scaae war of greater
Est Asia all n tions are makint stcady steps forward attainer.ent
of conmon coel of succsssful consuim tion of current wer for build
inc up greater Last Asit. He stated joint doclaretion unanimously
adopted et recent assumbly of (reater Asittic nations at Tokyo menifes.
ted unity us wcll as firn resolve of E st nsistic ns tions for ettaine
ment of above common ideel. Hailing opening or current es:  mbly of
greater est Asiatic newspapers prumier said the affair is indeed
timely enterprise which intended for further demonatretion of unity
und r. solve of E.st Asiatic nations to the world.  cmph:sized
succesnful prosccution in thought worfere side by sic  rmcd war
is vit lly neccssary for ultimate victory as well us for building
up ereater Eust Asia. In conclusion premier Tojo prayed for success
in curreus sssembly of eroater ust Asietic nowspapers for fulfilling
mission vh refor the assembly gathered.
By Don i navel commentator - Tokyo :
Lirhtcen thousend trained officers and seamen by conservative
ostim tes end more vere lost by United States nevy curine brief twenty
day period botween 27/10 whon bettle off Mono took ploce end 17/11

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
when the fifth air-battle off Bougainville island wes fought. Estima-
tes are drawn up on assumption that complements of respective onemy
warships ar as follows : largosized aircraft carrier l.600, medium
carrier 1.400, battleship 1.500, 1urgosized wership 1.000, hcavy
cruiser 800, cruisers 350, largesized destroyers 300,destroyer 150,
lergesized transport 800, mediumsized trensport 500,mamemsiamdmtmansm
and small sized trinsport 300. Judging from above personne1 figures
sinking or damsging of numerous varereft as mentioned in Imperiel
Head-querter's announcements would amount to huge total. Instentancous-
ly sinking of two lergesized airoraft cerriers would meen personnol
loss of 3.200; two heevy cruis rs 1.750; one largesized destroyer 300;
two destroyers 300; three largesized transports 2.400. Thoss cover
instanteneous sinkings alone end oven on supposition thet helf of
crew of cach vossel were saved balance of casuslties would totel
4.775. It must be remombered ther are many other ships not insten-
tancously sunk but sunk novertheless. Adding these to the above total
greatly increases United States losses. Sinking of four bettleships
would mean loss of s.o0o officers and men; thres mediwasized carriers
4.200; one loreosizcd warship (of unknown category 1.000; four heavy
cruisers 3.200; four cruisers 1.400; three largesized destroyers 900;
six destroyers s00; six mediumsizea transports 3.000; one smallsized
transport 3oo. Those figures would bring totel for this perticuler
eroup elone to 20. 900. If ve &o on supposition thet two thirds of per
sonnel of ships thet vore sunk (not instentaneously) were saved still
remains totel of s.63s casualtios.But in addition there still remein
porsennel losses suffered as result of demating of thirty three other
enemy crart and 5l4 enemy plones shot down by Impeiril forces.Estimat-
ing 24.200 offi rs end men constituted personnel of thirty thre.
damaged vossis cesuslties placcd at even one sixth vould eegregato
4. 000. Per onnel of 514 enomy plsnes cen be cstimsted at 1500 al1 of
which cen b m rked as lost.Grond total of all theso nost conservati-
ve estimet: egeregstes ls.seo. Fron this basis it is not difficult
to imce ine thet sctuel cesuslties suffered by sneny foroes off Bou-
gainvillo talsd somewhere 18. 000 ond 20.000 as there might have bum
any number f casuelties eboard the demegod aircreft carriers end da-
maged plenos.Lost couipment might be displeced by now ones but personn.
el that is irretrivable and the lost can not so casily replecod. This

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.89)
is on of me in r tsone vhy h evy cosue lt  s muat  a by eneny
off Boue inyille cun be expectcd to prov. highly domec ing to
r y's oral cnd also to brine sbout serious cat rioretion
in n: fiehting otr ngth.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
Domei
Ankar,1e 20 novenbre 1943
Emission du l: au soir.
I.formations de fuerre :
Buse japonaise dans le Pccificue cu Sud : 1 /11:
Les unités e r ennes j on: icus intercepuerent le 16 novombre matin
une formetion ennemie compos : e o chasseurs ennenis du type P58
gui tente de survoler Wevak dens l'ile de ls Mouvelle Cuinée. Après
un combet acherns nos avions véussirent è ab.ttre  :vions ennenic
et à renousser le reste de le formetion a rienne ernemie.
Les pertes de l'avietion iunáricle s'élèvent à 3 uvlons qui pique-
rent volont: irorent à mort ou cui m nuuent encore à l'appel.
Bangkok : 19/11 :
Le heut commandelaent dos forces th ilendcises publia hier, dans
l'apres midi, le communigu uivant :
Una formation de 8 aviont cunul ie fut reyoussée per nos batteries
enti-gériennes quend ulle tot it  survolur le benlioue dc enetint,
le 17 novembre. Los d eats subis de notre côté furunt leeers.
Tokio, 1e 19/11 :
Is olôture dt la Conf rence de la Prease
de l: plus Grande Asie Oriontale.
La Confórence de Pressa de le Plus Grande Asie Orlentele complíta
ses travaux evec le création d'une confódéretion de I'resse pour la
plus Crande Asie Orientele reliant los journeux ot les egences des
nouvelles relotives è lc Grencc Asic Oriontale pcr des liens indisso-
lubles, tcoptent le déclerution d: tous 1 s journelistes d cette par-
tie de l'hsie de collaboror è lo construction de le plus Granc Asic
Orientole t eu r tablissemont de lt peix mondicle per 1'scras.ment
des intricucs et dos mechin tions dus Anglo-Américains.
Le. Confironce de Presse eut co metin se dermiore s. rce sous lt
présic nce do Ar.Shingoro Rakuishi, ridecteur un ch f du journal Maini-
chi.
Avant do procéder à l'éteblicsement de l'ordre cu jour, r. udolph
Voise, Pirectcur du Burosu do I'lsie Orientelc de 1'Afence D.N.B. ct
Mr.Otto Dictrich, chef dc la Reich Prosse, procédarent à 1 locture
dos messages de rélicitation envoyis per la Fédéretion curopécmnc de
l'Associstion de la Presse. Ces messages furent upplaudis longuement.
La motion urgento présentée cnsuite pour le déclaration de la Confé-
rence fut approuvéc ct un comité pour sa rédection fut créé è cct
offet..
Après les cxposts dos représentants des Philippines, dc le Birma-
nic ct dc le Chine, le présidont Takeishi communique è l'auditoir.
quc le régolution d'aider l'indépendenco dos Indes quit iut ado tée
per le Conf rence fut traduito en différontes lengues ct rediociffusue
au monde cntier per les stutions radiophoniques de Tokio.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
 spomit 'ereenleslen 'Associatlen Goneml
o . Presoe, Mr.Matsutaro Shoriki, pris nte 1 orojet pour la
aroation d'une Conrédération  la Presse pour le Plus Grande Asie
Ori ntalc. Ce projet fut aporouvé à l'unanimité. La Conféd ration
qui aure scn siège principal è Tokio et ses filiales dans les diffé-
rentes régions, traveillera dans 1 but d reserrer l'amitié mutuel-
le ct prendre une part ective dens le pr'sente guerre idéologique
on cooperent n mom tomps dane t'u onniiso m nt de se eronde tache
pour le velopoem nt de l'Asie.
Le Présid nt ce l Conffrence, Mr.Takeishi, lut ensuite lo projet
de déclaretion él:boré per le comité de ridaction. Ce projet fut
apnlaudi chalcureusement ct cpprouvé è l'unanimité.
Après l'allocution de Mr.Tokishi Taneke, pr sident do l'Associa-
tion de 1 Fresse japonuise qui ennonça le clôture de la Conférence,
ot les " BANZAls " acclamés sous lo dir ction c Inosuke Buruno,
président de l Agence Domei, cettc Conf rence historique qui dura
trois jours fut déclaréo cloce à mddi.
Dans l'après midi, le ministre des Affeires Etreneères, Mr.Mamuro
Shigemitsu, offrit un thé è l'honneur des repr.sentants dans sa
résidencc officiulle. A cc thé assistèrent plus de deux cents person-
nelités officiellcs et civiles permi l squclles r.Kejuro Aoki,
ministre dos Afft ires d. la Plus Grende Asie Orientelc.
Mr.Kajuro Aoki offrit è l'Hôtel Impérial, un diner en l'honneur
des représentents qui assistèr:nt à cette Confórence. Au cours de
co dinor le ministre Aoki, dans une allocution, félicite les repré-
sentants pour les succôs de cette Conférence et les exhorta à lancor
une offensivo dans le guerre de propagende en vue de raffurmir l'union
des peuples esistiques qui se lèvent en nombre è un miflierd d'âmes
en écresent ainsi toutes les m:chinstions dc l'cnnemi.
Le représuntent birman, mr.Utun Then, répondant è l'ellocution
du ministre Aoki, essura la détorminetion de dévouoment pour la
construction de l: sphoro de Coprospérité do le Plus Grende Asie
Orientelo et pour le poursuite victoricuse de l gucrre.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
TH DOINVS
Ankara, November 1.,14
By Domei naval commentator - Tokyo :
Despite colossal losses susteined during pest three weeks of
the intensivest naval serial warfere off Bougainville island enemy
continues to persist counter-offensive attempts. Due to successive
navel battles off Bougainville wherein enemy suffered the heaviest
losses situation of Solo ons eree entered new and decisive phase.
Enemy's persistence,howev r,is not to be slighted as enemy's high
commend undoubtedly deems it necessary at all costs to recapture
Solomons and ev Guinee. Enemy highcommand is apparently deternined
with blind persistence to recupture Rabeul and New Guinee,however
erest sacrifices mey be.Analysis of enemy's strategical plens would
reveel that having plunged thus far enemy is no longer eble to with-
drew although the moro he suffers the erester will be hos losses.
Enemy todey has ret ched the position where ho finds limit to his
fighting strength. do cxtended his supply linos into Japenese held
eree which is rsr ote from his homo bases. It is notevorthy that enemy
is scheming to recapture his lost territories through island hopping
tectics by landing troops tr: neported in huge fleets protected by
powerful units of bettleships ond sircreft carriers. Eech time enemy
hes come out into open ho hes teken terific beuting.His limbs have
not only been roached off but he hes taken demecing body blows.Greet
crror in enemy stratoy ley in his com loto relisnce on weight of num-
bers.If enemy continuos to come out sgein unware this ereve error
his losses will increase mor than more. Imperial navy welcomos any
enemy attack whether it bo an island hoppine attack or chellenge to
Japenesc flcet.
Manilo:
Presicent Joseph Laurel lcd netion in cbservance day todey by
plenting veeci bles in truck garden of Malacanen perk across Pasic
river from presidontiel pelece.Attired amligntfuhammtummma in open
shirt and "khake" shorts as well as sunhat end rubber pumps country's
leadine fermer delightfully turned up soft earth end cently sot prou-
tling in little holes.lialeoanen gerconers ss well as othor office
personnel looked enviously on as pres. dent showed by exemple true
manner colebrating fermer's dey.Meenwhilo fitting coremonies merked

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
orsery ne hroue oe ta pountry nd t  at f r 's doy undor
ind ndent Philim in sa usi in o" r utr s pol. or form-
horas in as uring s lf-surfiel ney of foodstu ts.
isinking :
Japt nesc milit ry  uthorities here tocay issucd permission to
Hsinking broedcesting st tion trene ittins of r coreI C D writton
moseee s of anglo-ar ricen r prisoner nov nt n in mulden.
Tronsmission vill b uni s cicl proeram ntitlcd "war prisoner
speek" at 1415 and 17.45 wh n var  ison. rs th ms 1ves will nerrate
their actual dey huppcnines.
Menil:
First "rizul" day uncer nevly born ruuutlic as v il as first
anniv. rsary of foundine "-alibepi" will be observed simultaneously
30/ll with pl ntinc on million fruit tr  s throughout Philippines.
City obscrvance  ill center in Luneto park vh r. fenous Fili ino
here suff. re mertyrdo. forty seven years ago una vherc n tional
service essocietion md formel bo l:st yeer.amilio Osius ecting
dir ctor n rtl of . lib: pi stesecd significance of double celu-
bration soying "it will be benofici 1 to tho nation since it will
make peoplc Kalibepi conscious, d ep. nine our onenoss in linc with
objoctive of our ussoci tion for pecification". According to plens
of l libapi loastly one fruit tr  will bo pi nted for overy member
cgsooiction on this dey with edcquete ritos attondine the plenting
in ordir to omphepize moening end symbol of obscrvence. Mcanwhile
Meanwhile it ves lotrnod r cont proclometion of Philippine indepen-
doncc h s Er atly boosted Kulibani mombership drivo.Latost figur s
r.vecl total 705.400 Filivinos or more than thr. cuortors million
have lre dy sicn d up with kelibepi for momburship excluding m m-
bers of junior elibapi as woll as womon's auxilicry which number
is  y thound more.Intcrcsting foature of membership camneign
is m t or c ruso in Cotabsto provinco Mindaneo to top position
as v I  nct bl: increese in Leunion end Tarlao provinces. Manils
which le s Philippine cities in mcmbership drive prcsently hes
45.054  sid nts onlisted in the association.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
THDOI EITV.S
Ar0vember.0,1943
Penort :
Initietion ceremony of forty one studente for nunrensho (lea-
ding officers trainine institut) ws held in kamvone Bahru. Stuuents
include Chinese, Indians, Malay, Euresians. Addressing students go-
vernor Maseyichi Itali exhorted them " to show good examples to peo-
ple to study hard and to cultivate strone spirit."
Tsinan :
Head-querter of Jepanese army forces in north China this after-
noon announced Japenese troops 18/1l sterted moppine in campaign
against Sino-communist forces in arees along old Yellow river as well
es upper reaches of Siaoching river in northern Shantung province.
It wes cdded Jepanese troops now are successfully cerrying out mopp-
ing up operetions egainst Sino-communists troops in various psrts
of north Chine.
Shonen :
Reliably it ves learned that cebinet connvittee of provisional
covernmont of free Indie which was appointed 2s/1o to consider ques-
tio: of pensions and compensations of members of Indion netionel ar-
my and their femilies es well as medels anc other awards of Indian
nationcl army warrious vho may injured disabled or lilled in coming
campeign concluded its work. Rocomcendations comnittee vill bix the
plan before next cabinet meeting and decisions of proviisonal govern-
ment will be than ennounced.
Manile :
Inaucuration ceremony of Jepenese consulate-general at Menile
wes held here this morning in attendance of consul-eenerel Suckichi
mdy Shioye snd other officiels of consul tc-generel.
Djakarta :
180 Italicns in Jeve who have been pl:ced under protective sur-
veillence by militery &dministrstion sincs trescherous  ct of surrend-
er by Becoglio ref ime will be hereafter treeted es cxis power nation-
als incsmuch es they heve pledfed allcgience to fescist republican
government snd have clarifies their determination to co-operete with
militery sdministretion. In this connection adrinistretion said :
Italiens who heve been placed under protcctive surveillence since
Badoglio roeime sepereted from ε is powers, those true Italiens plede-
ine alicgiancc to fescist republicen covernment and ardently desiring

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.90)
to co-oper te with militery dr nistr tion re no loneer under
surve illnc.. h . It li us re 1 mconditionelly supporting
kussolini's (ov rmiant cnd ure determin d to drive forvtrd for
consumntion of currnt ver."
Je) nu s. bF in south tcific :
Our c ti- urcruft bett: ria uce ssrully repulced thre lir
cc m my lenes which uttompted ettock. Fekfel on porth rn coest
of No Cuinc durine day timo lr/1l.
Japencs: bes in south  cific :
Our nov' 1  irforcc devm 18/1l raid d  ncmy cirfi:1d on
Funefuti islond llic roun cnd s t n uy pl:n s ofround end
munition dumps cfire at six points. Ecrly mornine le/1l our nev:1
airforcc bomb:  nemy positions neer Toroline Bougeinville islam,
blasted on munition duap ant sot cigth of ther ableze. All our
plenos return to b so sof ly.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
Ankura, 1e 22 novembre 943
emission du 20 au soir.
Informations de guerre :
Base japonaise du Pacifique du Sud :
Dans des raids consécutifs exécutés le 18 et 19 novembre,
des puissantes unités aoriennes naveles japonaises portèrent des
coups écrasents contre les positions ennemies aux confins de la
pointe Torokina dans l'fle de Bougainville détruisant et incendiant
de nombreux amènagements militsires de l'ennemi.
Les avions jeponuis effectuèrent des bombardements inten-
ses sur l'ilot se trouvent è l'embouchure de la rivière Torokine.
A le suite de ces reids con scutifs 7 positions ennemies
furent ou incendiées dens le pointe Torokine et une installetion
détruite dens l'ilot se trouvant dans l'embouchure de ls riviere.
Au moment où les avions jeponeis nuittaient los lieux de bomberde-
ment, sans avoir subi aucune pertc, une explosion eveit liou dans
Torokine.
Base Japoneise du Pacifigue du Sud :
Le Centre d'eviation ennemi de l'ile Funafuti eppertenent
au groupe des Iles Ellice, fut soumis le 18 novembre à uno ettaquo
par une formation d'avions de la Marine impériele.
Quatre installetions milit:ires cnnemies furent détruites
et deux autres incendiées, en outro les betteries anti-eériennes
ennemies furent réduite au silcnce.
Tous les avions jeponais qui perticipèrent è cetto action
retournèrent indemnes à leur bsse.
Hsinking, 1e 20/11 :
Le Président de ls Conunission dos Affeiros politiques dc
la Chine du Nord, Mr.Wang Kohmin, visite cet apros-midi Hsinkine
dans son voye: de retour du Japon.
Mr.Weng, eprès s'être insorit dens lo listc des visiteurs
du pelais, fit dos visites au Pren ier Cheng Chineui, su directeur
général des Affsires générelcs du Conseil d'Etet, Lr.Rokujo Takabe,
au Ministre dcs Affairos Etrengores Li Shao Kone.
Lc soir, Mr.Weng, fut 1'hôto d'un bangu.t offert cn son
honneur per 1e. Promier Chang.
Manille, 1e 1/11 :
L'Association du service national des nouvelles Fhilippi-
nes " Kalibepi " & l'occasion du premier jour commémoratif du patrio-
te Rijal qui tombera le 30 novembre, s décidé de plenter 1 million
d'erbres fruitiers dans toutes les villes des fles. Pour cette oeu-
vre, tous les membres du " Kelibapi " plenteront 1 srbre.
Cependant en outre de: membres du Corps de le jeunesse et
des membres émminins, le " Kalibapi " compte sctuellement 715.400
membres è la suite de l'sugmentstion accélerée depuis itimdapmmmmmm
l'établissement de l'indépendance.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.94)
L auementetion est censideran surtout dans les provinces
de Cotabato et de Mindaneo, tondis que uns les provinces de la
Union et de Tarlabac cette sucmsnmrtio a'etait pas inférieure dans
le taux d'augmentation des merbros.
La ville de Manille est toujours prem èr aussi bien dans
le norbre que dans toutes choses comptent 46.O54 membres Kalibapi.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.86)
Ankara lu s2 noy rtre tv 1h
GRANDM ATLA ORIONVALA
La Conféronco de la Grande Asio Ortentalo a été ouvor-
to à Tokio le 5 n voabro à 10 h urus du matin.
Y Proxier  iotr Tojc,  présidunt do la Conférence
à l'unent é. en a dáelaré i cuvertura cn a ust mis tout do sui-
to su treve . Les rp es utaats ao ahaoue Pays ent prononcé un
discours. et la Ccntcenoo a Ats sletureo à a h uros du l'après-
midi. on a consinua a couferouco lo londunein ausai ut a adopté
à l'unanimité la Céclerution suivanto :
DECLARATION
Il ost fondanontelmont usaonti.l pour Ja puix du monde
que los Notions do l mmuivoru cbtionnunt checuno la pleco digno qui
Lour eas propre ct partugont n comun les frmits do la prospérité
univoraolio n so prssent pido et uppui.
Los Etcta-tais d'Arértquo ot l'Eapire britanniquu n'ont
pas béoit a opt s cs patons c pouplus uniguomont uu
prors de ur  ro b on e Partoultermont on Grondo Asi
Or I a x   ns  a dos nots d'ugrs
sion ot a oxploitoticn tneats ables ot ont shurche a donner libro
cours a lour ant ontier néinste d assujostir lu region tout ontiero;
ellos finar ont par monnoor do debmuiro les badoa do la eéourité do
la régtan ciast la cuo rasido lo c uso fouaamentclo de la présonto
guorro, Los Pays do n Gunnde Asle Grtontale sont rdeolus on vuo do
centribuur cu retabitassmnt do ln paix mondinlu, do collaboror à
lu poursuite de la preeuuts gaarre Jusqu a se concluston victoriou-
se, effranehissant la region ontiere do tentn dominction anglo-ané-
riocino, assusnt lour exast nce cutonomo et lo propre défonso
et on conc ruisant uno Grando Asie Oriontcio sur baso dos prinoi-
pos ci-apres :
1.- Ls P ys da la Grande Asio Oriunt:lo on Stroite collabo-
r tion assureront la sécurité de la région ot étnbliront
il ordro basé sur lc justice, leur garentissant à tous
lo bien être et lc prospérité.
2.- Les Pays do la Grando Asio Oriontalo établiront dus rula-
tions fraturnollos on ruspoctent mutuollomont lour indé-
ponanno ot souverainoté, on rossornt los lions d'mitió
ot on ronforgent l'entr'aid mutuollo.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.84)
3.- L s Payo  1a rana Asi Oriuntal, n r upuctant réci-
prer a nt les teo titons  ch que P yep développeront
1 s nie croatour ao phaqu r co et révaieront le reyon-
nom nt do 1 civi lie vion do 1. Gr nle Asie Oriuntale.
4.- Los Prys de la Grande Asio Crient le, en vue d'ussuror
à la région untiere une proepérité toujours crcissonte,
s efrorvoront un étrolte coli boration et sur i base
o  rem preeije m tével ppement ceonomtque do lours
dni.
5.. Les Pays de lc Gr ndo Asde Orientplo contribueront cu
progres de l'humanitá, ou maintun at dos  pports omiocux
evee tous los pays u monde ot, on s crforant de réaliser
cens  urivers  abelition co toute ciscrtmination rnciale
on entrutouent uu euor nt ar sehange culturol ot on pormet-
tint a tous lu iatro acses cux ressourcos nuturollus/

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
BUTLETIN DLINFORNATIONS
9"
Agence Domei
1"
Ankur,le 22 novombre 1943
Informations de guerre :
Tokio, 1e 2e/11 :
Le Grand Qu rtier G'n ral Imp rial onnonge uujourd'hui que
d'imnortantes pores  nnecies comprenant des porte-ovions, des cui-
rassés borb:ruint et canonnerent moyennent les avions du bord et
Ies canons les Iles Mckin et Tarswa dans le groupe des Iles Gilbert.
depuis le 19 novembre.
Une partie des forces ennemies débarquèrent sur les deur
Iles et ces combots echarnés se r doulent encore msintenent.
Shangha1, 10 22/11 :
Mr. Subhas Chendrs Boss Chef du Couvernement provisoire
de l'Inde Libre ayant complété su mission en Chine repartit ce matin
de Shanghai.
Mr. Bosé fut selué à son Cépart per les dirigeants nippons,
chinois et indiens.
Tokio, 1e 22/11 :
Mr.Soecarno, prósident du Conseil Central de Jawa qui est
venu ici pour exprimer les remerciements de le populetion de Djawe
pour le participation administrative accordée per le Japon et pour
se rendre compte de la vraie situation du Japon en guerre, quitta ce
metin Tokio en direction de Nagoya.
Manille. 1e 22/11 :
O apprend que le Consulet Japonais de Davao sera élevé au
grade de Consulet Général, que deux Consulets généraux japonais se-
ront établis respectivement à Cébu et Baguio, tandis gu'on utablire
à Legespi une filiele du Consulet genéral de Menille.
A Iloilo et à Bacolad seront établies des filieles du Con-
sulat de Cibu.
Des fonctionnaires furent envoyés le 22 novembre è Davao
et è Cébu afin de procéder aux préparatifs de l'ouverture des bureaux
tandis que Mr.Choseku Shigegaki, nouvellement nommé Consul du Japon
à Cébu rejoindre son poste sous peu.
Tokio, 1e 22/11 :
L'Amiral Kiyoshi Hesegawa, gouverneur-général actuellement
à Tokio renait visite au Premier Général Tojo a 12 heures è sa rési-
dence officielle.
Bangkok, 1e 22/11 :
Le Comvernerent pheilenueis ommonga per rodic le retour à
Bangkok par evion dans l'eprès-midi du 2l novembre de la délégation
thailandaise qui participa à l'Assemblée des Nations de le plus
.Grende Asie Orientcle parmi laquelle le Prince Ran Weithayakon.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.96)
THE DOM L NEWS
43
JOINP DLOLATOTTON OF THE COUNTRIES OF
CRLLATER EAST ASTA
November 6, 1943
It is the basic principle for the establishment of world peace
that the netions of the world have euch its proper plece and enjoy
prosperity in common through mutual aid and assistance.
Unite Stctes of Americe and the British Empire have, in seek-
ing their own prosperity, oppressed other nations snd peoples. Es-
pecially in East Asis they indulced in insatiable aggression and
exploitation and sought to satisfy their inordinato ambition of
enslaving the entire region und finally they came to menece serious-
ly tho stability of East Asia. Herein lies the csuse of the prosent
war.
The countries of Greater East Asis, with a view to contribut-
ing to the cuuse of world peace, undertake to cooperate towerd pro-
secuting the wur of Greater East Asie to e successful conclusion,
liberating their rogion from the yoko of british-amcrican domination
end ensuring their self-existonce and self-dcfencc and in construct-
ing a Greeter East Asie in eccordence with the following principles.
1. The countrics of Greator East Asia through mutual co-operations
will ensure the stability of their region and construct an order
of common prosperity and well-being bascd upon gustice.
2. The countries of Greeter Ecst Asio will cnsurc the fraternity
of nations in their region by respecting one another's sovoreienty
and independence and prectising mutual essistancc and amity.
3. The countrics of Groater E: st Asie, by respocting one snother's
treditions end dcvalopine the creative feculties of cach racc, will
East
enhance thc culture and civilization of the Greater Asia.
4. The countries of Greeter Ecst Asie will endcevour to accclerato
their deveiopment through the co-operetion upon e besis of recipro-
city end to promotc thereby the gencral prosperity of their region.
5. The countrics of tho Greater Esst Asia will cultivsto fricndly
relations with ull tho countrics of thc world end work for tho aboli-
tion of racial discrimination, tho promotion of cultural intcrcours
and tho opening of resourccs throughout the world and contribut
thoroby

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.93)
Ankber13
Shonan:
Popular J panc se and Chinose melodies were highlichted in con-
certs spon: ored by "Shonan N1 po" leadine Chinese newspuper here
held 20/11 21/ at mto ne owe tneaters refore cp city au-
diences. Concet pled tirst r te entertinement nd included
Chinese classic 1 donces as well as Chinese ane Japanese sorgs, sur-
vey of Japanese incustries folloved stege show.
Manila :
Ministry of foreien affs irs in ennouner lent ls.00 et Malaca-
nan Polace welcomed Sublias Ch ndra Bose to Philipnines. Text of
announcement follovs : "Government and poople of republic of Philip
pines are happy to receive to-day as guest of state Subhas Chandre
Bose head of provisional &overnn nt of froe India. Philippine govem-
ment recently accorded recornition to provisionul government of free
India in firm b. lier that fr e and in opend ut India is abuolutely
essential to final enunoinrtion of Asia and happy realization of the
new world order based on justice, liberty anc recial eguelity. Bose
is staying at Molacanan Palace. Bose will attend grand rally of loa 1
Indian community et metropoliten theater 14.00 tomorrov :nd welcome
party from 19.00 at Janile hotel. Bose's temporary office is located
in Melecanen Pel ce during stay in Monilla."
Tokyo :
Fervently calling to his fellow countrymyn of Indic Rash
Behari Bose. supreme caviser to provisional covornment of pree Indis
redio mecsst o-night eppealed Indiens."to join forces into solid
phalanx tnd ru. tocether vith three million countrymen of East Asis
and vest ar of em ncip&ted nations of East Asiε in concerted uni-
ted efforts  crush com on enemies at this historic guncture." He
id "your ao untrym n of ast Asia are rallying to fi ry q ll of
Subhes Che nara Bose sperine ne effort to carry on struegle to bitter
end." Briusing messu e.of cheer and hope to, guffering Indiars et
hone Bose d clared  long torturous night of. alevery lesting two.,
genturies under Bri Ish "raj" is a Ginituly dro ine to close." Ho
aaid "last pers of British rule ic India is b ing written to-day in
i

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.92)
miryn
initn
eries of lunr pn
Piin mos s or l io; in eigho
of teoon tor yin
  ros or loror ps deprived
of frit or ther lebor; in w opine of mothers erying over their
children dying of hunger. This is harrowine tele of concluding
chapter of British history of India."
Declerint "dawn over L i'n st  is not fer ofr" Bose seid Bri-
tish imperialisn on India is doomed before "inerorable forces of
history." He seid "clank of swords of Azad Hind army is heard al-
ready on borders of India and our enemies anglo-americans can hardly
disguise their panic at prospect of our froc army ontering Indian
soil." He pointed out that enemies of sia's frccdom are mccting
their doom on ell fronts espccially pest two weoks orf Bougainvilke
island. Ho said "Solomons will be erave ston's of .merice's shattor-
cd smbition to dominate Asir and bottom of south Pacific will be
finel resting place of Roosovelt's missions who come to rob netions
of Eest Asia of thoir nowly won freedom." He stressed fate that has
overtaken Amcricans off Bougainville is destined to overtake Mount-
batten and Vavoll in bay of Bengal and on Indis soil. "I fl con-
fident", Bose mmmtarmd concluded "thet four hundred millions of
my countrymen in Indie will not fail to gropplo this historio hour
of thoir freedom by dodicating thomsclves with cquel zoal snd cou-
rego to sacred task cxtermineting our mortol enemios Anglo-amcrican
tyrents from soil of India."

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
JULLETTL DLTNFORNTIONS
" Auence Donei "
nare,Noven.bee 24. 1943
Manille, 1e 24/11 :
" L'impérialisme britannicue est mort cependent les Etats-
Unis cherchent de lui succéder en toute violetion des droits d'au-
trui par l'inhunenité," overtit Subhes Chandre Bose, chef du gou-
vernement Provisoire des Indes Libres dens son discours prononcé au
cours d'un diner offert hier soir en son honneur, per le Président
Joseph Leurel au Palais Malacanen.
A ce grend diner assistaient les ministres d'Etat du
Gouvernement philipnin, Mr.Shozo Mureta, Ambassadeur du Japon ainsi
que d'autres notebilit s janonaises des Philippines et les dirifeants
indiens.
Dans ce discours Bosé dit " Le monde doit choisir entre
la perpétuation de cet Impérialisme et l'établissement d'un nouvel
ordre basé sur la justice et l'égalité."
Le Chef du gouvernement provisoire des Iades Libres fit
ressortir en outre que " compromettre l'lmpérialisme britannique
c'est compromettre l'esclavege car cet impérialisme pressa toujours
les peuples dans tous les domaines aussi bien politique, économiquo
et social."
Quant è l'impérialisme amérioain, Chandre Bosé déclare
qu'"il faut que nous prenions garde contre cette menace nouvelle et
nous devons l'empêcher d'étendre des tentscules," l'orateur observe
que " 1'impérialisme américain couvrait anciennement sculement le
domaine politique meis aujourd hui il s'étend aux domaines économi/
que et social."
Perlant de l'Assemblée des Nations de lε plus Grande
Asie Orientale cu. fut tenue récemment à Tokio, Cuendra Bosé dit
" qu'ellc marque le réalisation de mes vocux de voir les nstions
Asiatiques réunies."
Mettant en relief le détcrmination du peuple hindou de
lutter jusqu'au bout Bose dit " Les Hindous sont prêts & ourir
pour le selut du Pays. Nous devons mourir car cclui qui vit pour les
Indes est celui qui meurt pour les Iades. Nous sonmes prêts pour unc
lutte prolongee et amère cet l'Aneleterre cst eussi prête pour une
lutte longue et pénible. M ie l'Angleterre ne pourra pes l& continuer
pour toujours."
Exprimant ses profonds romerciements à l'égard du Pré-
sident Luurcl, Bosé dit: " je suis reconnsissant è Votre Excellence,
au gouvernement et au peuplc des Philippines et je souhaitc è la
Républigue liberté et prospérité éternelles."
Le Président Laurel répondit à Bosé avec des paroles
chaleureuses en expriment la bionvenue è l'éminent dirigeent hindou
et faisant l'élogc pour la détermination de ce d rnier de lutter pour
1'émencipstion dos 400 millions d'hindous.
Manille. lc 24/1l : La prcmière session ordineire de l'Asscmblée
nationale des Philippines sera ouverte lo 25 novembrc.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.95)
THHE DOLEINEWS
Ankara, November 24, 1943
Shonan :
Shonen's dclegetion of scvonty sportsm n repr senting tventy
soccer, fift en hockey playurs and other supporters from Shonan sports
association was given rousic sendoff monday evening when they left
on fortnights sporting tour in Melay. Team will visit Kuale Lumpur,
Ipoh Peneng ploying serics of mstches at all thcsc centers.
Japenese bese in south Pecific :
Jspansse gerrison units in Bougainville irland morning 20/11
successfully repulsed more then rive hundred on my troops with thanks
which evening l9/ll attacked Jspen'ss positions from cres south of
Torokina. Fightine cost enemy 250 kill. , in &ction whil: onc enemy
tenk set ablaze. Our units suffered l2 eesu: lti:s. sanwhilc Jepanssc
gerrison units arc now driwing westward another cnomy unit which
attacked J panese position 21/11.
Shonen :
Ismeil Bin Suleiman cighteon yeur old winner of locution con-
test held last suturday here to dscide bost aleian spcakor of Japa-
nese language voiced his profound eratitude to tue chers of Shonen mili-
tary edministrttion national lenguege school for painstaking mannor
whereby he was teucht to roed ond write tho lineu ee. iailing from
Malay fumily of nod st means young ismeil, interviowed todey,steted
thet cver since Jspanes. occupstion of islay he tried to pick up
rudiments of Japeneso lenguege by following lessons publish.d in va-
rious local dailies. "However, my progress was much more repid whon
i joined national longuage sohool" he stated. Todey one ycer efter
he took up studics young lsmeil hes distinction and  tisfcction beine
known εs "best Jopanese langusee spsekor in Ieley" ftar comp ting
ageinst leediue stuc nts from seven other provinces in lay. He is
still sttonding schools as post-greductc student pcrscv-ring in study
of highcr Jopeneso langusge. "I hope in time to como I mey be given
opportunity of visiting Jopen. This will cnable me first closs cduca-
tion, es only by living in Jepen for som:timo one can fully epprecie-
to spiric eud netiouel cheracteristics of Japancso pcople themsolves"
hs assertcd. Ismail spccks fluont alcy, Japaneso langusfe and English.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
Japoneibs:
Betwc n 19/11 .2/11 Jrm
n v l  irfore s e: rricd out intun-
sive reids seuinst  n my junetions on pougainville end its vicinity
causine heevy dem. Our bombers l9/1l pounded cnemy positions on
Mono island blesting cnemy inst:ll tions t number of pleccs. Dawn
20/1l our fighters strafed several eneny trensports ofr Torokine
point causing demspe to these shios.  mwhil. pproximstely st the st
seme time our bombers pounded cneny positions in vicinity of Torokine
point blasting, destroying threo positions cnd causing fir s it six
pleces. Our bombers 2l/1l pounded cnomy lendine feciliti s ct Toro-
kina point blesting end setting two instellations afirc. At dawn
same day our bombors poundcd cnemy positions ct Torokin point sslo
small islend et mouth of Torokine riv: r. Five enemy positions on the
islend were set ofire. Fires were also observed :t five pleces along
mouth of Torokine river. At down 22/1l our bombers pounded und bles-
tod on my ground faciliti,s at Torokin: point whur in dir ct hits
werc scorec.
Tokyo :
Hailine succcssful compl tion of n totiutions betw en Japen end
Germeny for fuller co-operation in ficld of m. dicine "Nippon Timcs"
this morning cditorially declered attcinment of complete undorstand-
ing betwoon tvo countries on this mettur comes s "appropriate gift
to cclcbrete this day which marks the fifth  nniversary of conclusion
of Jepancsc-G rren cultural egrcumont 25/11 1938." Nippon Tinos cm-
phesized not only hove Jopen end Germony been ccrryine on closc co-
operetion in political,cconomic enc militery spheres to inostimoblo
benefit of both countrics but in cultural fiold lil..wisc th ir co-
opcration has becn no less noteblc." After revicwine oustanding
understandings recched between Jepen end Gernany on basis of cultu-
ral ugrccment the paper dcclered "now attt inment of understending
conccrning co-oporction in fi ld of mcdicinc sdds anothor signifi-
cant subjoct to activities which ar buing jointly pursucd by two
countrics to thoir mutual adventage." Hippon Times essert "it coss
without soyine such co-opcration es this will grcetly contributc to
edvenco of modiccl science and prrctic. ermany hes long bcen roco-
gnized cs leader in field of medical scionco in wost while Japen
occupies similer position in cast." Paper add "nodern scicnco hes

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.89)
i pr y iatoy  J n coin t cx to d yo t n first J. panese
expon nts of .od rr  dicin studicd vith Dutch Doctors ct Dishims
in d ys of Tokuc w Shocun:t.." Puper phosizec co-opcr tion bet-
wn J pin C r ny "which hold such co d ar po itions in field
of  dicin e.t ut r mult in contributing utsurebly to
edvene of lie throurhout ll the world. ov understending
thus rurnishes on ore mple of how J nese-Gerrun co-oporetion
contributins to vlf ro c nkind.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.94)
BULLETI D'IIFOR ATIOU
Aune Donoi
Ankara le 2 novembre 1943
Ranggon, 10 25/11 :
Le Docteur Bamaw, chef d' tet de lu Birmanie qui assis-
ta en tant que repr sentunt de la Birmanie à l'Assemblée des
Nations de la plus Grande Asie Orientale récemment temue à Tokio,
retourna à Rangoon dans la soirée du 24 novembre.
Le Dooteur Bamaw duns son voyage do retour visita Manil-
le où il eut des contacts aves les dirlgoants de la République
des Philippines.
Shonun. 10 25/11:
Mr. Subhas Chandra Bosé, chef du Gouvernement Provisoi-
re des Indes Libres qui assiste en tant qu'observateur à 1'Assem-
blée des Nations de la Plus Grando Asio Orientaio tenuu récemment
à Tokio, rentra à Shon un lo 25 novembre. D ns son voyuge ae retour
Bosé visita les Capitles d lu République de Chine et de la Répu-
blique des Philippinus où il cut dus conversations avec les diri-
geants des Gouvernoments rospuctifs. Il passn par Saigon dans la
nu1t du 24 novembre.
Shon an. 10 25/11 :
On apprend que le Gouvernamont Provissire des Indes
Libros adrossu un mossug télégr phique pour oxprimor la profon-
do appréciation pour la roconnaissanc du Gouvernom nt Provisoiro
pr la Th Ilcnde. Le mossuge fut dressé uu Promiur Maréchal
Phibun Songkhram.
Rngoon. 1o 25/11:
Duux chassours milit iros j ponais battiront 3 vions
onnomis dans un combet érien cu-dessus du Chittegong.
Los avions J aponais roncontrèront au-dussus du Chitta-
gong unviron l0 chassours unnomis compron nt dos vions du type
" H wh rhurricane,P.36 ut abttiront un avion d cu typo t 2
P.36 drns un duol cériun. Doux ch ssuurs j pon is rontrèrunt in-
demnes à Juur base.
1111.25/11
La promièro Sussion ordin iro do l'Assomblée nationalo
dus Philippins qui durore soixent jours  été ouv rto oo matin
à 10 h. sous 1 présidoncu d, Mr. Bunignos Aquiro. Lo Présidont
Hr. Jos ph L urol accomp gner d'utros représont nts dinistro-
tifs fit son ntréo dans 1a sallo à 10.45 h.
Avont do comm noer son disoours, 1, Présidont Lurol
fit un r pport sur 1'Assuablć dus N tions d 1 Plus Gr nde Asi
Oriontcl. tonuo dornièromont à Tokio ot donna dus uxpliontions
sur lu déclaration do cutto Assombléo.
Parl nt do 1: volonté immuabi. du J pon qui tr vaillo

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.91)
dins 1'iccomplissomont a. 1. m rr: pou 1 plu Gr nd: Asi.
Ori nt I.., Ie Présid nt L urel décl r T  1 victoir
du J po, I'ét blissomant d. la. Spher.  Co rosrérité d. 1
plus Grind isie ut 1. n intin  I'indip  c d  Philippi-
noe no pouvont p's Ctr apérés. Lo Prisidont L ur 1 d.mind
rauito l légial tio. le, liversas directive; suiv nte; néces-
s:ires pour ln solution dos problènes auxquels fout face actuel-
leme:t les Philippine: :
- La perfection da le sents et ce l'hygiène par l'aug-
me tetion de le production dos n dicanents,
- l'anélioration dans le maintien de l'ordre et de la
paix,
- L'assurance dans les moyens de transport,
- L'aigaentetio. de t-xag qui est uie ausurance pour
des nouvelles ressources fincncieros
- I'ótablisseneit de la Bunque Centrale,
- ne réforre d'unification des services administratifs
conprenant un Ministère de l'conomde,
- L'ulargissement des oeuvres d'assistance sociele.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
THEDOMEM
Anker , ovember 25,1943
Manile :
With all Filipino cest Italian opere "Pagliacci" :ill be pre-
sented here evening a9/il vith professor Remon Tupeles directing.
This will be th secon occe jon in recent months that Italien opere
vill be stated in Menila under sponsorship of cultural elenents to
be eager completly to eradicate elready dwindlling influence of
American jazz in Philippines.
Taiyuen :
After surrounding opproximetely 1.00o Sino-communist troops in
Chiangpo twenty kilometers north-west of Siangyuan in southern Tai-
hing and of south-eastern Shensi province Japanese ermy units launched
smeshing attack on them dawn le/ll and by sunset of the same day
killed 100, prisonered 407 as they triec to draw through. Japanese
captured quentities of wer trophies includine automatic rifle with
fifty rounds of ammunition, five revolvers, thirty hand-grenades.
Manila :
Addressing the first regul:r session of national ussembly un-
der republic of Philippines president Joseph Leurel stressed accom-
plishments of cssemtly of Grecter East siatic nations wherein Phi-
lippine took part nd outlined leeislation neccssary to meet vital
domestic problems of the new government. ne told to members of legis-
lative body that joint declaretion adopted at ussembly of ereater East
Asiatic netions is the "erectest human charter ever enacted, cver
promulgated in centuries psst and in prcsent century." Giving signi-
ficance of each five cardinal principles cmbodied in the document
president sid "first principle means people of Phili pines as well
as rest of Greater Eest Asia are determined to work together for
purpose of cnjoying common prospeirity end meking common csuses with
one snother in prosecution of war so thet they may all cttain inde-
pendence and sovereignity." Regerdine the second principle ho seid
"basis of co-cxistence,co-prosperity and co-operation is maintenance
of sovereignity integrating units which is guarantcd in this provi-
sion. This is important to Philippincs as well as to other Asiatic
nations becausc the charge has been voiced in past that pruscnt war

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.92)
is r.inF 
.115
:urnted
whiewiiint
teh netion to  velep, pro-
eress und aeni ve heppinese in tecordance vith its beliefs and cus-
toms." President &lso hailed reciprocity of cont xt of the fourth
prineipl suyins "fedoratlon of Eest Asitje n slona, uny fodoratin
cannot puer a mor  1 stine nouring unless vhet is done by one
is reciprotuted in the sume extent and by the same mensure by the
other. Only by doine this cen prosperity of all be achieved and con-
sequently prospeirty of int eral perts." Conccrning the fifth prin-
ciple president csid importance of cnacting the legislation assuming
self-sufficieney in fooc as vcll es medicine for meintenance of
peace and order, solving trensportation problem, olennine texetion
and finence macsures end underteking propos d reorganization of
sovereign and  si ed governmenters who ere memoers of the assembly
to teke lcad in in their resnective provine s in work raising more
foodstuffs on? manufecturing m dicine from local modicinel plants.
Laurel disclos a Philippines has been recioiont of gift of twelve pa-
sseneer plen s frem prer ier Eonoral Hideki Tojo in order to provide
government means of ranid transportation. Also it wss disclosed the
plan to orgenize bo rd of p ece and order under ministry intcrior
is under way to take charge national policy work. Prosident ureed
the assenbly to study taxation finance measures in order to further
stabilize finencial structur of the new govoriua int. Regording so-
cial relief he suis netional esscmbly is pres ntly discussine equi-
table distribution of two million p-sos appropriated durine special
session last month to help wer victims.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
BULLETIN D'INFOR ATION;
Agence Domei
Ankera, 1e 29 novembre 1945
LA BATAILLE DES ILEJ GILBERT :
Tok10, 10 29/11 :
Le Grend Quartier Général Impérial annonça aujourd'hu1
à 15 h. que les sous-marins et les avions de la Marine Impériale
coulèrent 5 porte-avions et 2 croiseurs ennemis dans les eaux des
fles Gilbert du 25 au 27 novembre. Un croiseur ou cuirassé ennemi
fut en outre gravement endomagé.
L'aviation navale japonaise continue les rombardements
des positions ennemies dans I'ile Tarawa. ( groupe des Gilbert )
D'après ce comuniqué, la situation de la guerre dans
les fles Gilbert se développa comme suit depuis le dernier commu-
niquó donné 1e 23 novembre :
1º.- Les sous-marins jeponais attaquèrent à 1'aube du 25/11
un porte-avions ennemi à l'ouest de l'fle Makin, l'endom-
mageant gravement. La submersion de l'unité est presque
certaine.
2°.- L'aviation navale japonaise qu1 attaqua le 26/1l au soir
la flotte mobile ennemie à l'ouest des fles Gilbert, cou-
la 2 porte-avions ennemis dont l'un instantanément.
U1 avion japonais ne rentra pas à sa base. Cette ba-
taille aérienne prendra le nom de " Deuxième bataille
aérienne au large des fles Gilbert."
3°.- L'uviation navale japonaise attaqua le 27/1l au soir à
l'ouest des fles Gilbert, la flotte mobile ennemie qui
pássa à l'attaque de nouveau et remporta les résultats
suivants :
2 porte-avions ennamis coulés dont 1 de gros tonnage
instantanément.
2 croiseurs ennemis coulés
1 croiseur ou cuirassé gravement endommagé et incen-
a16.
5 vions japoneis ne rentrèrent pas à leura bases.
Cette betaille portera le nom de " troisième batail-
le aérienne au large des fles Gilbert ".

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
4°.- A 1 "ite de l'interruption des communications avec
les troupes de garnison dans les fles Tarawa et Making,
la situation de la guerre sur ces deux fles n'est pas
claire mais on croit que des combats acharnés se dérou-
lent encore sur l'fle Tarawa.
L'aviation navale japonaise bombarda les positions
ennemies de l'fle Tarawa.
La bataille qui eut lieu le 22/1l à l'ouest des fles
Gilbert et qui fut déjà annoncée sera appelée " Première Bataille
aérienne au large des fles Gilbert."
Nanking, 10 29/11 :
Après le traité d'alliance sino-japonais.
La première conférence des Ministres et Consuls Généraux
Japonais depuis 1'arrivée de Ir. Masayuki Tani, Ambassadeur du
Japon en Chine, eut lieu ce matin à 9.h. à la salle des Conférences
de 1'Ambassade Impériale du Japon à Nanking en vue de faire face
à la nouvelle situation créée depuis la conclusion du Traité d'al-
liance sino-japonais.
A cette conférence assistèrent les liinistres Japonais à
ShangaI, à Péking, à Madgan, à Hiro, les Consuls Généraux à Hankow,
à Amoy et des autres régions. A côté de 1'Ambassadeur Tani se trou-
vaient les Ministres Tateki Horiuchi et le personnel ainsi que
Kumaichi Yamamoto, vice-ministre des Affaires de la plus Grande
Asie Orientale.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
THE DOLE NEWS
Am r .November 29,1945
Djakarta :
First comprehensive istory of Jewe vieved from purely Indone-
sian point of viev is b ing written by Dr.T'oerbotjarko archeoloe ist
attached to Djakarta museum. "orl started October last year to romo-
ve distortions of true focts co ubuncent in histories of Indonesia
publishes  ays of butch rule. Poerbotjerko vho is considered the
highest aushority on ancient history of Jawa alreedy completed the
first part of his vork dealing period from pre-historic era until
740 A.D. Interviewed historian expressed gretitude for nssistance
extended him by miliery administration. He said he is erateful that
Indonesians are being extended by Nippon to look bacl on their own
old history and culture. It was recalled outline of history of Iudo-
nesia by Indonesicn netriot poct Sunoesi Pane  hich was published
December lost year hes cone into tenth edition to meet large demand
from schools cnd €enerel readers.
Tokyo :
Composito ver-results achieved by Japanese navel circraft and
surface creft es well as land forces in operotionel areas surround-
ing Gilbert islanās from 19/1l to 27/1l inclusively compiled by Domei
follow : instante cously sunk one lsree circr ft carrier, onc air-
craft carrier, on, mediumsized carrier, one ccstroyer total four.
Sunk two aircraft carriers, two cruisers total four. ieavily damaged
two large aircraft cerriers, onc aircreft cerrior, one medium air-
craft carrier, tvo battleship or cruisers, one trensport or totel
seven. Shot down total 125 enemy planes. During seme period 21 our
planes lost.
Shonan :
D cision to erect monument for Subhas Candre Boso hcad of pro-
visionel govcrnment of free India vas reached by Japenise crmy ar-
tists associction. This movo was tskon by the association to honor
and commemorete Indian leader for ereat servicus he renderctc to
Indian cause on Meley soil. Konaji Suzuki·soulptor of the association
plans to construct soveral other monuments in southern regions to

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.95)
perpotuate brilliant progress of reconstruction as veil as daring
deeds of Jepenese forces. Bettles cent monumentel wes also crected
at Bukittimah in memory of santuinery clssh which took placo during
attack on Sing pore vhile in kotab hru similer monumentl established.
It is understood all desi ns together with those of other places of
Ereater East Asit will be in cispley at &rmy art cxhibitlon in Tokyo
vhich will be huld some ti t reh next yeer. Worl will be started
es soon us usicne h v he n accopted:
By Domci navi i comiuntator - Tokyo :
Dezzlinf wer-rosults echicved by Japenese neval εirforccs in
vaters wost of gilb rt islend betwcin 25/11 27/11 as announced by
Imperial Head-quorter this afturnoon smashed all bombestic statements
by Yashinston high commend r cercing Gilbert operations and seriously
cripplcd future unemy operations in contral Pacific. It was recalled
botwcon l0/1l 21/1l our naval girforce opcratine off Gilbert island
obtaincd followine results : on. cnomy aircraft carrier sunk, threc
heavily camaged while one dostroyer, on. bettleship or cruiser and
onc transport cither sunk or heavily damagcd. In addition l25 encmy
plancs wcre shot down durine the samc period. Viith destruction of
total cight werships including five aircraft carrier betweon 25/1l
27/1l as snnounced by Impcrial Head-quartor this &ftornoon under
Choster Ninitz doprivod United States P:cific fleut of main stay of
its fighting. Hoavy blow dealt to cnemy may be eaueed by the fact that
total nine enomy eircraft carriers either sunk or heavily damaged
durine short perioc between 19/11 27/i1. Sxce stert of present con-
flict alrcady lost considereble number of aircraft carriers in number
of eir and see battles. Tuus enemy in midst wer forced wake drastic
chenecs in thcir ship-building program so as to conoontrete construc-
tion of siroraft carriers even resorting to mskeshift end converting
cruiscrs an mcrchantships into cuxiliery cerriers. Hovewer enemy
lost totel s ventecn cireraft carriors in less than two months with
cight eirer ft cerriors cither sunk or irrcpereble demsged in Solomo
wotors sincc 27/lo end add!onal nino aircraft carriers sunk or hee-
vily dameeca n vatus off Gilb islanda.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
LO. EiN.
Ankara, ovember 27, 1943
Shenghei :
Central China salt industry coapany,one of fourteen local Japa-
nese netional policy companies anc next in line to be re-adjusted
in accordance with ur pin's new China policy was turned over to Chi-
nese yestercey when the company vas renamed China salt industry com-
pany at general meeting of share-holders. Centrel China salt indus-
try compeny which ves esteblished 1939 as joint Sino-Japanese compa-
ny was desiened to control salt industrial in central China and had
been under control of central Chine development company. Agreement
of handing over the company to Sino people wes siened 9/1l between
Kitashime presicent of Central Chine development compeny and Li Fei
president of Central China salt industry company. Aereement stipulat-
es that shares held by upunese to be handed over to Sino share-
holders so that the company operates entirely on Sino capital.
Manila :
With rizal day 30/1l drawin: near contributions to rizal fund
are incressing daily. Latest contributors incluue libepi chepters
in provinces Pampenge Batanges rizal antique Mindaro which gave
total'2422 pesos. Fund will be used for convertine birth pi ce of
national hero Celembe Lenguna into netionol shrine.
Menile :
Dissemination of tagalo€ Ls netional languege is expected to
receive further impetus when nationl assembly in neer future will
hold deliberations in tegeloe in course of prescnt ussembly session.
Governor Simcon Selongs Bctean momber of the essembly declared com-
mittee on nationel languagc whereof he is cheirman is studying adop-
tion of parlementary useges of tcgelog furnished to the &ssembly by
nationel laneuage instituto. Salonga exprsssed tho belier togelog
will be populer emong lcgisletors, majority of which spcsk and
undorstend tagalog. It is understood the assombly at the same time
is contempleting and securine scrvice of tagelog instruotor for bene-
fit of non tagalog spoeking assembly men. Meanwhilo it was learnod
national lenguegc instituto began conducting tagalog lessons over
radio station Piam thrice woekly with Dr.Jose Willa Pengemban who

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.95)
is pros ntly on staff of B nirno Aquino s aher of the ussembly as
instruetor. l ngembn is vell known tagalog gramm: rin beine author
of threu boors on teg log laneuuec.
Manila:
Mo.bership drive 1944 involving cnrollm nt of leastly three
million six hundrcd thousand Filipinos ves announccd by Camilio
Osias ecting director-gcncral of Kalihepi ot conference held with
district chief in Monila. rroeram vas reveeled leastly thirty per-
cont of members will be women. frosnt plan clso calls four stepping
up membership junior Krlibapi so as chopter have es many boys girls
as cnrolled in publi. schools.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.95)
DO
anke ra,Novemter p0, 1943
To:yo :
Hin Majuty the Lmperor this afternoon fraciously audienced
vice-admirals Ryozo Fukuda and Sakae Tokunaga rear-admirals Sel
Itakagi, Kanae Kemicnka,Tokuo Okeno and pay-mecter reer-odmiral
Kameji Yeustmoto  l of whom recently returned from frontlines efter
renderine distinguished services. All admirals were granted set of
Imperial created wooden cups in token or their meritorious services.
Hsinking :
On occasion of the third anniversery of Japan-ranchoukuo-China
joint declaration Li Sheoken foreign minister of Menchouluo declered
in course of interviev to-dey spirit of Jepan-lMonchoukuo-Chine which
forms nucleus of co-prospeirty sphere is presently permeatinc throu-
ghout Greator Eest Asis uniting all Asiatic races into one bit fami-
ly. Li went on to say historic event three years co to-day has
become contributing f: ctor of the present co-operetion of ast
Asiatic netions for eerly reeliz:tion of permanent universal peace
and order. Concluding Li urged forty three million Manchoukuoans
sphere nothinE for succeosful prosecution of Greater Eest hsie wer.
Japenese base in Burme :
Form:tion of our army plenes in Burme front tvo suocessive
dcys 28/1l 29/ll mede surprise raid on Feni and Akola airfields in
eastern Incin und destroyed and efired nine frounded plsnes includ-
ing five lere plenos. In course of the raid our fiehters engaeed
enemy interceptors in fierce eerial combat and downed five onemy
planes. Two of our planes failed to return to base.
Tokyo :
Co: o ity war-results achicved by Japunese naval &ir-forces as
well s sulmarines in waters surrounding Gilbert islends inclusive
war-rc ults by our anti-aircrcfters during period from l9/ll up to
27/ll com iled by Domei on besis of authoritative figures follow :
instentell culy stnk three enemy oircraft carriers, one cruiser,
one dantr yer. Sank two aircraft cerriers, to cruisers. Heavily

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
damaged dour uirerurt carviers, one b ttleship or cruisers, one crui-
ser or tuttl shin, two transports. Shot down 125 enemy planes whereof
25 prubablus. In the same period 21 of our planes lost.
Tokyo:
Through good offices of Jeon amateur athletic society, mem-
bers of umb ssics of Axin powers in Tokyo will perticipate athle-
tic rally sch culed to be held for two days beginning 4/12 at Maji
Shrine st dium. Rally which was planned for further consolidation
of friendly ties betv on Axis powers through physical training will
be attend d by youn men of Jupan, Germany, Manchoukuo, Chinc, India.
For two cays ambtss dors of member embassies concorned will enjoy
rally participeting in foot ball, basket ball, wollcy bell and in
other games. Je sn vill be reoresented by select body of students
athletes.
Tokyo :
Twenty tvo members of Ja pan branch of Nazis purty paid res-
pects to Yasukuni Shrine to-day to express gratitude of German peo-
plo to Japanese wer dead who sacrificed their lives for cause of
the new world order.
Tokyo :
Quarters close to Imperial n vy reveeled another victory won
over enemy in Gilb rt suctors as ennounced by Imperial Head-quarter
again credited to fect our lowflying torpedo plsnes. This efternoon
Imperiel Hoad-querter nnouncoment reveeled our neval air-unit sank
instentancously one lsrgc cruiser heevily damaged anoter large crui-
ser also one trcnsport at Mekin Atoll 23/1l. According to the latest
dispatches samc querters furthor rcveeled cur navsl air-units spot-
ted late cvening 28/ll enemy convoy cscorted by cruiscrs and destro-
yers engaged in landing war supolics on Mekin Atoll. It was said our
navol reiders losine no timc launohod. daring attaok on enemy oraft
in face of fierce enemy anti-airoreft firc, It was disclosed in
carrying out attack our neval plenes again resorted low lovel torpe-
doing reloasing deadly missilics from extremoly low altitude in rapid
succession. Accordine to thoso quarters torpudocs thus relsasod by
our plenes immediat/ly found terects onc lerge onemy oruiser which

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.90)
wes inst ntly  nt to totto. "hil. enoth r li rge cruiser ulso r.c i-
ving dir et torp do nits vee s t  blez . Our raid. ro :lso scor d
torp do hits on on n my tr nsport vhich v nv lo ud in flts from
stim to st rn As Imperial I ad-gu rt r's announe m nt indic:ted ell
our pl n's cem out unseethod from this succ osful ett: ck and returned
to base sef y l tvine behina thom coral t chs of ckin Atoll
virtuclly enshr:d in cclun o. Clares.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
Nankin. 1 30/11:
Une réc-ption fut donnéo l'Ambassade du liandohou-
kouo à Nankin aujourd'hui à midi pour commémorer lo troisièmo
anniversairo do la déolaration conjointo Nippo-sino-manohouc.
Assiatèrent à cotto récuption, du côto jeponais,
Monsieur Masayuki Tani, Ambassadour du Japon un Chinc, lo Licut-
Général Takuro Matsui, Chef d'Etat-Mejor gónóral dus forcus
Japonaisys on Chin, tous lus inistrus ot Consuls gunóraux
nippons so trouvent actuullumont à Ncnking a l'oocasion do la
Conférunco dos linistres ot Consuls génraux; du côté chinois
lo Ministro dus Affairus Etrangèros Mr. Chu Munji, lo Ministre
do lu Propagando Lin-Po Shon.
Au cours do ln róooption , tous lus porsonnalités
prosontos souhuitèront un tornoll mitit nippo-sino-mandchoue.
Nenkin. 1e 30/11 :
La session du second jour de le Conférence des diplo-
mates japonais en Chine se tint oo matin à 9.h. à l'Ambassade
du Japon à Nankin.
Dans la matinée on discuta sur l'amélioration des
modalités pour la gestion des affairos. Après une intervalle,
à 13.30 h. la réunion continua et les Ministres et les Consulis
généraux firent leur rapport sur la condition des affaires se
trouvant sous lour juridiction.
La Coaférence fut close le soir par l'allocution de
r. Kumaichi Yamamoto, vice-ministre des affaires de la plus
Grande Asie Orientale.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
m. ear
For the Military and Naval Attachés, American Embassy, Buenoa Aires.
n fnow
Copy for the Department of State.
Cony for the uffice of Strategic servioesl
Translations fro the Japanese ress of Buenos Ares, Argentina.
The following are from l Nichfa Djidji of November 1-4, inolu-
sive. 1943.
November 1, 1943 (Tokyo 30th): The Information Bureau announood
that the Japanese-Chinese Treaty of Allianoe was
signed this morning in Nanking and became effeotive
894.911/93
immediately. The gist of the announcement follows:
"After protracted negotiations the Japanese and Chi-
nese (Nanking) Governments conoluded a treaty of
alliance, with a complete agreement of views having
finally been reaohed. Japanese Ambassador Tani to
China and Chief Bxecutive Wang of the Nationalist
Government signed for their governments, the six pro-
visions of the treaty being as follows:
1. Both Japan and China shall eternally maintain
3
the friendly relations of good neighbors, shall mm-
tually respect the sovereign rights and territory of
each other, and shall adopt a coumon polioy of mutual
assistance to countries within the co-prosperity
sphere.
2. Japan and China shall collaborate closely to s-
tablish an unshakeable greater east Asia, and shall
spare no aid in doing this.
3. Japan and China shall cooperate economically on
a basis of reoiprocity.
4. The details of carrying out this treaty shall be
decided upon in conference between representative of-
ficials of both countries.
5. The basio treaty signed November 30, 1940 cover-
ing Japanese-Chinese relations, and its protoeol,
shall continue to remain in effect even after this
present treaty has become effective.
6. This treaty shall come into force on the date
FILJD
its signature."
A supplementary agreement provides for the mmims-
tenance of close general relations between both coust
tries, and the withdrawal of Japanese troops from 
Chine upon oonelusion of the war, and the abandommemt
of the right to station troops in North China on the
basis of the Tientsin Agreement. The Japanese say
P
that there are mo secret provisions to the mew treaty.
S
(Tojo, Tami and Wang issue statememts im high
/KN
praise of the mew treaty. The treaty appears to be
an attempt by Japan to put her "mow China pol1ey" em
as well as te try to eonvinee other Par Besters
tries that it will be to their bemefit to jeim hen
more elosely with Japan.)

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
November 1, 1943 (A certain South Pao1f1o base, 28th): Japanese
Navy planes in no time shot down 27 out of 79 enemy
fighters and bombers which raided the Japanese base
on Balare (?) at the eastern tip of Bougainville at
10 a.m., Cctcber 28. Damage to the Japanese oamp
was slight.
Japanese anti-aircraft units siot down 3 out of
8 enemy fighters which raided Shortland Island to the
south of Bougainville on the afternoon of Ootober 27.
Novomber 1, 1943 (Tokyo 30th): un Ootober 27, Japanese planes
engaged 20 P-40's over Finschhafen and shot down 15
of them with a loss of 5 Japanese planes self-destroyed
or not yet returned.
November 1, 1943 (Tokyo 30th): Gonoral Saburo OKAB, head of the
Army War College has been transferred to oertain im
portant work and Lieutenant General Jo IIMURA has been
appointed as his successor.
November 1, 1943: Editor Ni1mura observes that despite probable
Ameriean and British demands at the Moseow Conferenee
that the Soviets deolare war on Japan as a quid pro
quo for a second front, Stalin is not going to be
taken in by suoh a demand. Editor Niimura also gloats
over the United States coal strike as eloquent evi-
denee of the weakness of the Amerioen internal strue-
ture.
November 1, 1943 (Tokyo 27th): Minister of Interior Ando told the
Diet that as measures of air raid preeaution, the com-
centration of 1ndustry in large cities is being broken
up and transferred to village distriets as much as
possible, the inereased construetion of buildings im
oities is being prohibited, eity streets are to be
widened without waiting as hitherto upon permissiom of
the house owner, speeially desigmated baminess sheps
will be closed when raids some, large gatherings will
be avoided, and anyone interfering with or trying to
detract from air raid preeaution work will be severely
punished. (In other words Japan is becoming imereas-
ingly jittery over the thought of eoming Amerieam air
raids.
November 2, 1943: No paper as November 1 was a holiday.
November 3, 1945 (Tokyo 2nd): Imperial Headquarters anmouneed thet
in the Finschkafen area considerable lesses have beem
sansed the enemy by daring and fieree Japanese atteeks,
and preparations are underway for the desisive stage ef
the fighting. Between Oetober 16 amd 29, 26ss ememy
troops were killed agaimst 422 Japemese lesses. Net

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
less than lo00 enemy troops were k1lled in fighting
south of Madung since the latter part of September.
"1ghting on the China-Burma border is progressing
favorably. The road of retreat of Chungking troops
was cut in the district west of the Salween River,
and remnants ann1hilated.
Nove ber 3, 1943 (Tokyo 1st): Three Ministers of State were 1n-
ducted into new duties today, namely Premier Tojo as
conourrently Munitions Minister, Mr. Tatsunosuke
YAMASA.I as Minister of Agriculture and Industry, and
Mr. Yosn1ak1 (?) HATTA as inister of Transportation
and Comaunications. Vice Ministers were also named.
November 3, 1943 (Tokyo 1st): On October 28, 2 enemy oruisers
were sunk and 1 enemy transport was damaged by Japa-
nese Navy planes in operations at Mono Island.
November 3, 1943 (A South Pacif1o front line base, 2nd): Twelve
out of 80 enemy planes which raided Buka Island on
November 1 were shot down by Japanese planes in the
morning while 5 out of 44 onomy planes raiding the
same island in the afternoon were brought down by
anti-airoraft fire. There was only slight damage to
Japanese installations.
November 3, 1943 (Buenos Aires 3rd): The United States Government
has frozen the assets in the United States of the Bank
of the Nation and the Bank of the Provinee (of Buenos
Aires) as a first step in Amorican economio pressure
against Argentina. (This announoement has not yet
(December 6) been made in the Spanish press in Buenos
A1res.)
November 3, 1943 (Buenos A1res 3rd): At the end of Ootober a oer-
tain gentleman in Buenos Aires received about 1 week's
issues of the Yomiuri-Hoch1 newspaper centering around
the Navy Day celebrat1on of May 27, 1943. These papers
provide rare and valuable material showing Japan at
war. (These are the first newspapers whioh have ar-
rived in Buenos Aires from Japan sinee tuose of May
and early June l942 were brought back by some of the
neutral passengers on the Gripsholm a year ago).
November 4, 1943 (Tokyo 3rd): Between July 16 and the end of Oe-
tober, the enemy has lost 504 planes shot down or
damaged in attaeks on Bougainville Island alone, as-
cording to a compilation of announeements from Imperial
Headquarters. with an average of 5 men per plane this
represents a loss of at least 2sso airmen, so that it
1s elear that in air fighting throughout the Solomems

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
the enemy has lost at least 5-6,000 a1rmen. (Why stop
figuring just when you're warming up).
November 4, 1943 (Toxyo srd): In ruer to give effect to the now
Japanese-chinese Treaty of Alliance the Japanese Embas-
sies at Nanking, hanghai and Peking will be increased
considerably in personnel and efficienoy will be bet-
tered.
November 4, 1943 (Hsinking 2nd): Manchuria's harvests are exeeed-
1ng estimates, and the program for this year of having
ordinary farmers grow l more and colon1sts grow 70
more has been com letely realized. Next year further
increases will be effected so that Japan and Manchukuo
will be self-sufficient 1n foodstuffs. (Sounds like a
pious hope).
November 4, 1943 (Tokyo 3rd): The enemy has lost more than 17,000
troops in fighting in New Guinea since the first part
of September.
Gorald Warner
Second Seoretary of Smbassy
Ameriean Embassy, Buenos Aires
Deeember 7, 1943
GW: jad

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
STATE
IVED
9
JAN 1 9 1944
WhasHtilitary and Naval Attachés, American Embassy, Buenos Aires.
Copy For tke Office of Strategic Services.
Translations fro. the Japanese Press of Buenos Aires, Argentina.
The followinf are fro. 1 Nichia jid ji of November 26-30, 1nolu-
sive, 1943.
November 26, 1943 (Tokyo 25th): Admiral N1m1tz told nowsmen 1n
Honolulu that Japanese olaims regarding American
losses around Bougainville are lies. (which gets the
Jap hopping uad).
November 26, 1943 (Tokyo 25th): r. Iguch1 of the Information
Bureau caloulates Amerioan losses in the fighting
around Bougainv1lle at being some 620,000,000 (U.S.
C'y) in ships alone.
November 26, 1943: Ed1torial on the "Hypoerisy of the Anglo-Sammns",
quoting alleged remarks of Lin Yu-tang in Chungking to
894.911/94
the effect that Amerioans and Engl1sh are still at heart
anti-Chinese.
November 26, 1943 (South Pao1fic front line, 25th): Between Novem-
ber l0th and 20th Japanese forces shot down 77 of the
B-25's which raided Bougainville during that period.
It 1s est imated that 525 enemy airmen were shot down
in these planes.
Novomber 26, 1943 (Central China, front l1nes, 24th): Roports of
stiff fighting in northern Hunan.
November 26, 1943 (man1la 25th): A plan of many years 1s finally
materializing in the establishment of a Central Bank
in the Philippines.
November 26, 1943 (Buenos Aires 26th): Two years ago today the
Ameriean Government really deolared war on Japan when
it presented its last arrogant memorandum, ete., ete.
(showing that the taunt of Pearl Harbor still smarts).
November 26, 1943: Kd1tor Ni1mura 1n his "My Domain" eolumm states
that a Washington report states that the Umited States
is sending considerable military equipment to the
Soviets via Alaska. - The United States is boasting of
P
raids on Berlin to try to eover up losses at Bougaim-
S
ville. - No private travelers, even diplomats, are
getting under way in Washington for a third Japameseo
Ameri ean exohange, with Japan holding some 15, 000 Am
ericans eligible for exehange.
4

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
November 27, 1943 (Tokyo 26th): Forwer Ambassador Kurusu recalled
for newsmen the interview with Seeretary of State Hull
two years ago today in whioh the United States haughti-
ly and insolently defied Japan to wage war. Japanese
proposals for a peaceful settlement were rejected, etc.,
eto.
Nove:ber 27, 1943 (Takao 26th): The Takao (Ta1wan) Defense Command
announced today that of the 20 enemy planes which raided
hinch1 ku on the afternoon of November 25th, 3 wore shot
down (one uncertain) and the rest driven off by Japanese
Navy planes.
November 27, 1943 (South Pao1f1c front 1ines 26th): Two of the 26
B-25's which raided Buin, Bougainville on the morning
of November 24th were shot down by anti-airoraft fire.
The others fled without achieving their objeotive.
November 27, 1943 (Saigon 25th): Indian Independence leader Chandra
Bose speaks of the need for sending a big army to India
to resoue the people from the British yoke.
November 27, 1943 (Nanking 25th): Japanese Army Headquarters 1n
China announoed today the following results of fighting
on al1 fronts 1n China during September, 1943: 11,492
abandoned enemy corpses; 6,513 enemy captured or changed
allegiance; Captured booty: 9 cannon with l63 rounds of
ammun1tion; l04 heavy and light maehine guns with 21,580
rounds of ammunition; muoh communications oquipment and
many military horses; 31 enemy planes shot down (inelud-
1ng 10 unsonfirmed); 8 enemy planes damaged; Enemy ves-
sels sunk: 7 large, 2 medium, & mmall, and mumerous
barges. Japanese losses in this fighting were 557
killed 1n action and 7 plames self-destroyed.
November 28, 1943 (Tokyo 27th): A Japanese maval expert declared
that the enemy attacks on the Gilberts were made in an
effort to shift attention from losses in the Solomoms
where they were stopped by Japan's iron ring.
November 28, 1943 (Shonan 26th): Chandra Bose has announeed that
the Andaman and Nicobar Islands wdll have their names
changed when control 1s transferred by Japan to the
Free Indian Provisional Government. Andaman will be
ealled Shasheedo (meaning Martyr) and Nieobar will be-
come Huaraj1 (Freedom).
November 28, 1945 (Tokyo 29th): The ememy's vaunted new P-51
fighters are mo mateh for the Japanese Army Eagles,
3 of them (1 wmeonfirmed) having been shot down out
of 10 whioh rai ded Rangoon on November z5th.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
ovember 28, l943: Editorial on the virtues of harakir1. (and who
would wish to deprive a Japanese of the pleasure of
committing 1t?)
November 28, 194: (Lisbon 27th): Catholic leaders in the United
tates, representing 24, 00, 0, move for peace de-
claring that the disturbances of the world cannot be
solved by arms.
Novewber 28, 194s: ditor 1imura is reatly ploased with revela-
tions of allered United States Government overspending
in Latin America as made by Senator Butler.
November 28, 1943 (Buenos Aires 28th): Radio broadcasts by the
Tokyo Broadcasting Jureau, beamed to South America
will be made at the following times (Buenos Aires time)
frou December 1:
1. 8:15-8:45 a.m. Nows and Timely Topios in Japanese.
2. 8:45-8:50 a.m. Mus10.
3. 8:50-9:15 a.m. Nows and Timely Topios in Span1sh.
4. 9:15-9:20 a.m. Music.
5. 9:20-9:45 a.m. News and Timely Topics 1n English.
November 28, 1943 (Tokyo 27th): r. Sadao IGUCHI, Counselor of
Embassy, was today appointed head of the 3rd seotion
of the Information Bureau as successor to Mr. Koiohi (?)
HoRI. ir. Iruchi was Counselor of Embasey in Washington
when the war broke out. He will henceforth be aotive
as Government spokesman.
November 28, 1943 (Buenos A1res 28th): Twelve boxes of gold ar-
rived on November 27th on the Rfo Paraná from the United
States. The gold 1s valued at Pesos 1,266,798 and wi11
go to the Central Bank. The same ship carried 19 pas-
sengers and considerable ma1l, as well as 10,332 (sie)
tons of general cargo and 1,700 tons of diesel o1l.
November 28, 1943: Mr. Yosh1kazu (?) KAWADA of E1 N1chia Dj1dj1 1s
traveling throughout Buenos Aires Province and to Cér-
doba on company business. (This man's travel is a
recent development).
November 29, 1943: No paper on Mondays.
November 30, 1943 (Tokyo 29th): Imperial Headquarters announeed
today that the following results have been achieved in
fighting in the Gilberts: (1) Early on November 25th a
Japanese submarine attacked an enemy aireraft sarrier
west of Makin, damaging it and almost eertainly simking
1t. (z) On the evening of November zsth, Japamese Navy
planes attaeked an enemy task foree west of the Gilberts

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
and sank 2 enemy airoraft carriers (one thundersunk),
with a loss of 1 Japanese plane not yet returned.
This air battle shall be called the second battle of
the G1lberts. (3) Un the evening of November 27th
another enemy task force was attacked by Japanese
Navy olanes west of the Gilberts with the following
results: 2 aircraft carriers sunk (1 thundersunk),
and two cruisers sunk; 1 cr 1ser or battleship great-
ly damaged and set on fire. Japanese losses were 5
planes not yet returned. This shall be called the
3rd battle of the Cilberts. (4) The battle situation
on Tawara and akin is not known in detail as commu-
nication with the Japanese gurrisons has ceased. It
appears that fierce fighting 1s in progress on Tawara.
Japanese Nevy planes have been continuously making
severe attacks on the enemy camp on the latter island.
(According to previous Japanese reports the Uni-
ted States had only 3 airoraft carriers left at the
finish of the alleged fighting around Bougainville,
yet five appear in the above account of Gilbert Island
fighting. Just a little resurrection.)
November 30, 1943 (South Pac1r1c front line, 28th): A formation
of 96 enemy fighters and bombers attacked Buin on
Bougainville on November 22nd and were met by Japanese
planes whioh shot down 20 of the enemy. Another onemy
fonmation which attempted to attack on Buin on Novem-
ber 26th suffered the loss of 12 planes and the others
fled. Japanese losses were very light.
November 30, 1943 (Burma front line base, 28th): Fourteen enemy
planes out of a large formation of fighters and bombers
attacking Rangoon on November 27th were shot down, in-
oluding 7 of the new Ameriean P-5l fighters.
November 30, 1943 (Buenos A1res 30th): Mr. Rokuro YOSHIKAWA has
gone to Patagonia on business.
November 30, 1943 (Buenos A1res 30th): In celebration of h1s 25th
anniversary of residenee in Argentina on August ll,
Mr. Sadao AnDo, President of Ando and Company and of
the Anan Trust Company, established on November 29th
the Sadao Ando Soholarship Foundation with a fund of
50,000 pesos, for the eneouragement of learning among
second generation Japanese in Argeatina. This will
be kmown in Spanish as Institueióm Cultural Sadao Ando
with offiees at Defensa 5lo. Mr. Ando stated that he
looks forward to misei taking their plase in Argentime
society in the future. Mr. Iehij1 KURIBAYAsHI has
contributed Pesos 150 to the fund, and will contimue

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
to give 50 pesos per month. Mr. Kazuiehi TSUDA gave
50 pesos. The Anan Trust Company will give Pesos 100
monthly to 1t. Ando and Company, The Argentine Ar-
tists lub, The gura Button orks, r. Sadao Ando,
and r. e1j1 TAsTANI will also make monthly contr1b-
utions.
Gerald Varner
Second Secretary of Embassy
Buenos Aires, Argentina
December 23, 1943.
GW: jad

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
EX COURDER
EMBASSY OF THE
LICAN REPUBLICS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Buenos Aires, Argentina, January/4, 1944
Central Information Office
(C.I.O.) Roport.
No. 13497
Subject: Coverage of International News by the Japanese
Press of Argentina for November
and December, 1943.
STEECTLY DXMFIDENTIAL
n
24
The Honorable
1944 JA
The Seoretary ofState,
washington
8ir:
894.9
I have the honor to report that the three Japa-
nese newspapers published in Buenos Aires carried the
following coverage of internatiomal mews during
November and December, 1943. This news came mainly
from Japan via the Domei News Ageney in Spanish over
Transradio and was re-translated into Japanese for
publication. A considerable mumber of items are being
received direetly from Japan in Japanese by shortwave
5
radio. Comment on nows items of interest is made in
passing.
FILED
Japan continued to consolidate ber position
-1944
militarily, pelitically and ecemomically during this
peried, Premier Tojo regarding Japan's positien as
being wabeatable, while the pablished statements ef
other Japamese leaders also centimued to emphasise
defense. Lieutemant General Hemma, Philippime invader,
stated that Japan will win er die bat never surrender.
Nearly a month after the evemt, Japan admitted that her
forees on Tarawa and Makin had been defeated, but had
died "fighting te the last man in the tree spirit of
Japanese resistanee". If some of those taksn eapsive
could be indueed to speak by radio te relatives in
Japan it might eause eoastermatien in Tokye. The Ja-
panese press made ecntimnons headlines ever a series
of alleged Japanese air vieteries ever Amerieen surface
exeeeding results aehieved at Pearl Earber, and eventn-
ally aceemmting for 80 ships costing $es0,000,000 (U.8.
that Ádmiral Mimits termed the Japanese elaims lies,
and mest have had further foed for theaght when, despite
their alleged sinking ef a majerity ef the vessels ef
the Ameriean Pasifie fleet, that fleet ceatiamed to beb
up in decisive figkting later en in the Gilberts and the
P
Marshalls, and alse centinued to advanee toward abaul.
S
At a three day conferense of Japanese diplematio
maister

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.95)
一2-
Minister Tamamoto ef the Greater Bast sia Ministry teld
cemferees that Japanese-Chinese cooperation is an abselute
requisite to vietery. Tokyo began oelebration of the
secend amniversary of the war on November 26 by attempting
to charge that the United States had really begun the war
on that date in l94l by rejecting Japanese counter-proposals
for solution of Far Bastern matters. Mach less news space
was devoted to the December Sth anniversary this year than
last. This merely showed that the thought of the infamy
of Pearl Harbor still smarts. As a counter move to the
Mescow Conferenee, Japan held a conferemce of satellites
in Tokyo early in November to eontrive means of furthering
mtual assistanee in prosecution of the war. The subsequent
conferences at Cairo and Teheran were ridiculed by Japanese
spokesmen, called absurd and useless attempts to drive a
wedge between Japan and Germany, but at mo time were the
terms of the Cairo Conference made publio in Japan, accord-
ing to reports relayed to Buenos Aires. Axis representatives
met in Tokyo to promote matual cooperation. East Asia mews-
papers were ealled to conferenee in Tokyo and teld by Aman
to counteract Amerioan and British attempts to sew seeds of
discord in East Asia.
Japan continued to prepare for antieipated air raids
on their mainland. Japanese indastries were being spread
out to lessen the effeet of raids on industrial senters.
Further oity building has been prohibited. Contimmems
attaeks were being made on Ameriean air bases in Chima from
which it was believed raids on Japan might be peesible.
The raid on Taiwan in November was a step in the rigkt di-
reetion. The bembing of German sities was temmed the height
of barbarity by a Tokyo whieh mow shriaks frem eeatemplatien
of a preview of a sate for itself whiek it has mever been
loath to visit e eities in Chima.
By the end of 196s eeaseriptien age in Japan had been
lewered to 18, the higher limit being 45. Ieenger stedeats
were enabled te eam military eredit by spesial military
stadies. Formesans were allewed to ester astive serviee,
and some voe, 000 were reportedly enlisted by the Any in
of wemen in facteries, and Teje ealled es fndastrialists
to inerease military smd ether predwstien even farther.
Japanese cemmereial erganizatien wes farther revised with
a reductien ef 6,0se fims te a mere cse, thes melessing
a long tozm war.
Japan elaimed te have the war situatien wel1 la hand
2

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
early in November and took charge of Italiam interests,
but there was no mention of the release of Badoglio
adherents, and Japan gave seant mention to Italy in
celebrating the second anniversary of the Tripartite
Military Pact on December ll. The Japanese objected to
what they termed an American war of nerves in allegedly
bombing Japanese hospital ships and talking of poison
gas warfare. The 84th Diet oonvened on Desember 26th
to hear the War and Navy Ministers report, and then
adjourned until January 20. Roman letters and Arabio
numerals have been barred from further issues of Japa-
nese ourreney. Jews have been driven cut of Japanese
musical organizations in Japan. Spokesman Iguohi won-
dered when the Bolivian Revolution would break out,
because the previous government, he said, was so pro-
United States that it was endangering the politieal
sovereignty of Bolivia and threatening the peaceful
livelihood of the people. Japan had high praise for
Argentine maintemance of neutrality, and for the state-
ments of President Ramirez and Foreign Minister Gilbert
that the traditional Argentine polioy will be mmintaimed.
Japanese repatriates held a mass meeting in Tokyo to tell
of their "inhumane" treatment in the Umited States.
Former Minister Tamagata to Chile expressed the hope that
further exohanges would be speedily arranged to save Ja-
panese from oppression in the Americas. Tokyo gleated
in reporting trouble in Japanese internment camps im the
United States. A Japanese diplomat from the Balkass re-
ported that conditions are quiet there despite Uaited
Mations' "propaganda" to the contrary. Tokyo ridiouled
passage of the bill repealing the Chinese exelusion
aets and admitting Chinese to citiseaship by moting that
it does not mention Japanese or Filipimes.
Further details in regard to the foregoing items
have already been included in translatioas fer the Army
and Mavy of artieles of interest appearing in the three
Japanese dailies published in Buenes Aires.
Respeetfully yours,
Hagh Millae
Bagh Millard
Pirst Secretary of Embassy
Origimal (fer Osalid machine) to Departmeat.
Copies to Babassies at Asuneión, La Pas, Lima,
Mntevidee, Rie de Janeire, and Sentiags.
Copy to Censulate Gemeral at Sao Paule.
File No. 8s0.02.
:jad

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LESTRICTED
AMERICAN LEGATION
Stocihclm, Sweden
No. 3062
July 7, 1944
Subject: Japanese Newspaper on Sale in Sweden.
The Honorable
ACTCATION
The Secretary of State,
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN.
Washington
Sir:
I have the honor to invite the attention of the
Department to a report submitted to the Legation by
Consul B. Reath Riggs, the American Consul in Malmö,
on June 21, 1944, regarding the distribution of the
Japanese newspaper NIPPON TIMES in Sweden.
Consul Riggs states that on June 20, 1944, copies
of the issues of the foregoing newspaper from April 16
22, 1944, were given to him by the firm of A/5 Edvin
Lundgren, booksellers and stationers in Malmö. Upon
the receipt of the paper the Consul at once requested a
member of his staff to call and ask for a wrapper of the
newspaper, which was produced. Consul Riggs has trans-
mitted the wrapper to the Legation as evidence that the
Japanese are sending the NIPPON TIMES direct from Japan
1/
to booksellers in Sweden. The wrapper is attached hereto.
Further inquiries made by the Consulate at Malmö revealed
that A/B Falkmans, another large Malmö bookseller and
stationer, also received the paper in the same manner.
Neither of the two firms was interested in the NIPPON
TIMES and each stated that it was not making any attempt
to display or to sell it.
The Legation has approached the Stockholm newspaper
subscription agency Wennergren-Williams A.B. in order
to obtain information as to the distribution of the
NIPPON TIMES in Stockholm. This firm stated that there
were a few subscribers to this newspaper in Stockholm.
Among others, the paper was being received by the British
Legation in this city.
A representative of the agency was questioned as to
the way in which the NIPPON TIMES reached Sweden. He
believed that the paper came by way of Russia, but he
was not certain. The impression was gained from the a-
gency that there was extremely little demand for the
newspaper, that difficulties were experienced in disposing
of
FILED

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.96)
Stockholm/Despatch 3662
-2-
of the paper and that copies thereof were on hand which
could be had for the askinp.
Fespectfully yours,
Hersemllfalmsn
Herschel V. Johnson
Enclosure:
1/
Wranner
Microfilmed
Signed confirmation copy by mail
Copy to American Embassy, London (Political Division)
File copy
File no. 020
HEC/1ml

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
osure no. 1 to despatch no. 3662, dated July 7, 1944,
entitled: "Japanese Newspaper on Sale in Sweden" from the
American Legation at Stockholm.
Source: American Consul at malmö.
Title:
Rewspaper Wrapper: Sarple of wrapper in which
Japanese newspaper NIPPON TIMES is reaching
Sweden.
With microfilm and original copy of despatch
only.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
DERe
Office
NOE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AND
DEARIMENT UF
RESTR.CTED
AMERICAN LEGATION
Stockholm, Sweden
DIVISION OF
No. 3662
July 7, 1944
894.911/8-744
4   3 35
Subject: Japanese Newspaper on Sale in Swoden.
GOUUNIGATION
I0N
R
L CROFILMED AT THE
The Honorable
AMER.CAN LEGATION,
The Secretary of State,
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN.
Washington
DÉPA
81r:
I have the honor to invite the attention of the
Department to a report submitted to the Legation by
Consul B. Reath Riggs, the American Consul in Malmo,
on June 21, 1944, regarding the distribution of the
NAGNT
Japenese newspaper NIPPON TIMES in Sweden.
NO19S NO-
194
Consul Riggs states that on June 20, 1944, copies
of the issues of the foregoing newspaper from April 16 -
22, 1944, were given to him by the firm of A/B Edvin
Lundgren, booksellers and stationers in Malmö. Upon
the receipt of the paper the Consul at once requested a
member of his staff to call and ask for a wrapper of the
pewspaper, which was produced. Consul Riggs has trane-
mitted the wrapper to the Legation as evidence that the
Japanese are sending the NIPPON TIKES direct from Japen
to booksellers in Sweden. The wrapper is attaebed herete.
Further inquiries made by the Consulate at Malmb revealed
that A/B Falkmans, another large Malmö bookseller and
stationer, also received the paper in the same manner.
Beither of the two firms was interested in the MIprom
TIkes and eech stated that it was not making any attempt
8.744
to display or to sell it.
894911
The Legation has approached the Stockholm newspaper
subscription agency Wennergren-Williams A.B. in order
to obtain information as to the distribution of the
Ree'set
NIPPON TIKEs in Stookholm. This firm stated that there
were a few subscribers to this newspaper in Stockholm.
Among others, the paper was being received by the British
Legation.in this city.
-3
A representative of the agency was questioned afoto
SEP 1
believed that the paper came by way of Russía, but hes
was not certain. the impression was geined from thece-
gency that there was extremely little demand for theme
newspaper, that difficulties were experienced in did
727
of

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.95)
Stockholm/Despatch 3662
5-2-
of the paper and that copies thereof were on hand which
could be had for the asking.
Fespectfully yours,
Heureuellfrmsar
Herschel V. Jennson
Enclosure:
1/ Wrapper
Microfilmed
Signed confirmation copy by mail
Copy to American Embassy, London (Political Division)
File copy
F11e no. 020
HBC/1ml

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 3662, dated July 7, 1944,
entitled: "Japanese Newspaper on Sale in Sweden" from the
American Legation at Stockholm.
Source: American Consul at Malmo.
T1tle:
Newspaper Wrapper: Sample of wrapper in which
Japanese newsrsper NIPPON TIMRS 1s reaching
Sweden.
With microfilm and original copy of despatch
only.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.86)
AB Edvin Lundgrens Bokhandel,
Sodergatan 3; Ma1mo,
SWEDEN.
The Nippon Times Itd
1. hore. Vw c  
TOKYO. AN

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 10, 1941
PATH
AA:
JWBX
Tokyo's despatch no. 5196, December 11,
1940, subject "Transmitting a Copy of a Cartoon
Which Appeared in the Japan Times and Advertiser
on December 10, 1940".
A cartoon containing an obnoxious effigy
of the President is sent for the Department's
files in case the Japanese Embassy should have
occasion to protest against cartoons of the
Emperor in the American press.
894.9111/4
101
147
FE:Fales:HNS
