894.60 Japan, Industrial Matters., January 9, 1945 - December 21, 1945 (File 1501)
ID: 894.60-1501   Pages: 72   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.60-japan-industrial-matters-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
825
In reply refer to
CD
My dear Mr. Grajdanzev:
In a study which the Department of State 1s making
of the corporate structure of Japan, some questions have
arisen regarding the "younger" Japanese combines. In
your Memorandum on Korean Industry and Transport pre-
pared for the I.P.R., 1943, 1t 1s noted that Mitsubish1
influence in the Nitchitsu combine is regarded as con-
siderable. Specifically, on p. 25, the statement appears,
8
"We are unable to present the development since 1936
6
[of the Chosen Chisso Hiryo] in the same chronological
4
order, but it is known that the range of activities of
C1
Noguchi and Mitsubishi (or, better, Mitsubishi and
O
Noguch1) has expanded considerably since 1936."
The Department would apprec1ate it if you could
amplify on the extent of Mitsubish1 influence in the
S
Nitchitsu. The Nippon Chisso Hiryo is suggested since
4
the Chosen Chisso Hiryo 1s 1ts subsidiary.
5
Data found in the Kabushik1 Ka1sha Nenkan, 1941,
which is the latest information available to us, do not
indicate that the Nippon Chisso Hiryo has strong Mitsu-
bishi influence. For example, Mitsubishi influence in
the ownership appears 1imited to 50,000 Iwasak1 shares
out of an author1zed 4,000,000 sheres almost all of
which ere fully subscribed. There does not seem to be
Mitsubish1 influence in the management. If any of the
S
older
844
Mr. Andrew J. Grajaanzev,
1 East 54th Street,
New York 22, New York.
DON . EC
Darlens Hill
31=1

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
older combines were to be named in this respeot, Sumitomo
would appear the most likely. Credit conneetions are
divided between the Mitsubish1 Ginko, the Sumitomo Ginko,
the Dai-1oh1 Ginko and the Yasuda Ginko.
It is realized that in the beginning of Noguchi's
business oareer there was a close connention between him
and the Mitsubishi combine, but the materials examined
indicate that this conneotion had been severed, unless
revived in the last two or three years.
Whatever fuller information you may wish to make
available to the Department on this subjeot mould be
very much appreoiated.
Sincerely yours,
Robert P. Terrill
Aoting Assistant Chief
CommoditiesDivision
CD:EMH:MC
12/21/44 -1/5/44

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
FS/OPE
JÖHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
DCR
HtED SIates DepartmeNE of DustIce PERSONAI AND CONF IDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
JAN2 919ashington, D..
DIVISIO
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
AND
OFFICE OF
FILE NUMBER 110-3
CORA
AMERICAN REPUBLIL AFFAIRS
4wc
Date:
January 11, 194
1945
JAN
894.60/1-1145
To:
Mr. Frederick B
Lyon
Chief
Division of For ign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: Location of Japanese Industries
There is being furnished you herewith a memorandum which contains
information concerning the location of certain industries in Japan, which
information was obtained through a confidential source, believed to be
reliable, in Santiago, Chile. It will be noted that the information was
originally furnished by individuals who have left Japan since the year 1940.
This information is also being furnished the Foreign Economic
S
Administration and has been made available to the American Embassy at
/SMM
Santiago, Chile.
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
Navy Department
G-2, War Department
E3E
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Enclosure
Attention: Brigadier General-fart
W.
Clarke
Jan221974-FB1#2
By 6om
12/7/78

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
December 4, 1944
RE: JAPANESE INDUSTRY
Santiago, Chile
CARLOS PORRAS (CACERES), First Seeretary of the
Peruvian Embassy in Santiago, was interviewed and hs advised
he had previously been the First Seoretary of the Peruvian
Embassy in Tokyo but had returned to Peru in Ootober, 1940..
He said that he had spent 3 years in Japan but that he had no
Japanese friends and that he was unable to give any up-to-date
information on Japanese industrial facilities since he had
left well before the outbreak of war with the United States.
According to Source A, the following members of
the Chilean diplomatic corps were repatriated from Japan in
September, 1943:
ARMANDO LABRA (CARBAJAL); wife and two children;
former Chilean Minister in Tokyo.
MANU L CUADROS (CERDA) and wife; former Commercial
Attaché in the Chilean Legation in Tokyo, who returned
to Chile in Maroh, 1943.
JUAN MARIN, former Chilean Consul General in Shangha1
who r turned to Chile sometime in 1943 and was later
sent as a diplomatic representative to San Salvador.
He has recently been nominated for a post in China.
the
GUSTAVO LABARCA (GARAT), a Chilean newspaperman who
formerly worked for "El Imparcial" in Santiago. He
is pro-Japanese in sympathy and returned to Chile on
December 27, 1943.
GUILL RMO de la JAnA, former Chilean Consul in Kobe,
Japan. He is reported to have returned to Chilo.in
September, 1943.
Sr.
ROSELOT, the former Chilean Consul in
Yokohama, who likewise returned to Chile in Septem-
ber, 1943.
Source A further advised that the following Chilean
writers had recently been in Japan and had returned to Chile:
MARIO PLANET; RODRIGO ABURTO; ARTURO IGLESIAS; CARLOS BARRY and
JORGE VIAL (JONES). It should be noted that both ABURTO and
IGLESIAS have made propa anda favoring the Japanese and are
definitely pro-Japanese in sympathy.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
ARMANDO LABRA (CARBAJAL), former Chilean Min1ster to
Tokyo, was interviewed by Source B in regard to conditions in
Japan, LABRA stated he was unable to supply specifio informa-
tion in regard to industrial facilities since at the time he
left Japan foreigners had been excluded from industrial areas.
He stated, however, that much of Japan's production was being
handled on a piece basis in a manner approximating "sweat shep"
methods which have been used in certain industries in the States.
In this connection, he stated that Japanese families were given
various units to manufacture in their own homes and that these
were collected weekly by means of trucks and taken to a central
assembling plant. He stated that this method of manufaoture
was common throughout Japan and that, although it was inefficient,
it made for great diversification of industrial areas. He
stated that the food shortage at the time he had left was aoute
and, in this connectlon, stated that a friend of his in the
Japanese Government had told him that the food which was ra-
tioned to his family was sufficient only for the two children
and that he was forced to depend upon black market purchases
to secure food for himself and his wife. He also stated that
upon his departure a Japanese diplomat had approached him and
endeavored to buy whatever clothing and food LABRA might wish
to leave in Japan. Also in conneotion with the food problom,
LABRA added that the provisions on the Japanese exchange ship
were extremely meagre.
UGENIO SISIKIN, aged 23, a White Russian, was inter-
viewed by Source A in connection witn this case, at Rancagua,
Chile, where he is employed by the Braden Copper Company as
secretary to the Superintendente de Bienestar. SISIkIN advised
he had left Japan on October 2, 1940, but that his brother,
MIGUEL, had stayed on until July, 194l, before coming to Chile.
SISIKIN was able to give very little specific information;
however, he advised that there was an airplane plant near the
mountain of Sugita, a suburb of Yokohama. He stated he had
al so noted new constructions near the town of Kamata. He like-
wise stated that just before his departure he had noted new
factories being constructed in Tsurumi.
MIGUEL SISIKIN was interviewed by Source A and he
advised he had left Japan in July, 194l, to come to Chile. Ho
arrived in Japan in 1927 from Harbin, China. He stated he could
speak but could not read or write Japanese and that he had gono
to school in Japan from 1927 to 1933, when he graduated from
St. Joseph's School. From 1933 to 1935 he was employed as a
traveling salesman, selling ready-made clothes for his father
who had a small clothing store in Japan. He advised that
from 1935 to 1939 he had gone to Manchuko to study engineering
but failed to finish the course because of the fact that the
college he was attending was closed by the Japanese. In 1940
-2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
he returned to Sakalin Island, Japan, to continue in his werk
as a clothing salesman. He continued in this empleymsmt fer
one year until July, 194l, when he decided to leave Japan and
come to Chile, He was able to give the following spesifis
information in regard to Japanese industrial facilities:
The DATSON automobile factory is located at Tsurumi,
a suburb of Tokyo. The ASAno shipbuilding plant is lecated
at Seising, which is a port at the northern end of the Kerea
Peninsula.
He noted that subterranean hangars for plames were
being construoted near the to wn of Konuma, which is close to
the city of Toyohara, on the Island of Sakalin.
A synthetic oil plant was built in 1940 in Naihoro,
Sakalin.
-3-

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH SECTION
AMM-297
PLAIN
R6 L1945
Bern
Dated March 5, 1945
Rec:d 5:00 p.m.
Secretary of State
file
Washington.
eet
1401, Fifth.
German press publishes Tokyo despatch February 28
894.60/3-545
reporting Japanese Cabinet decision February 27 coordi-
nate munitions industry with war situation announcement
made
Government expects utmost effort entire popula-
tion to incrcase production munitions industry will be
consolidated according groups types and geographical
location Government will take over management privately
owned munitions factories when deemed necessary.
FILED
HARRISON
S/DBM 94.60
NDW
1.m.S.
DIVISION OF OMMENGIAL POLICY
3-6-45
DOR EUR
20212.
som
MAR 101945
Anal
H
Rev
RB
JC
cc
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1945
3
nist
-545

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH SECTION
MAR 1 4 1945
MES-673
PLAIN
ENT OF STAT
DIVISION
MAR1 3 1945
Brn
OPRICA
REc'd. 5:04 pam.
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
1552, TwElfth
SEquencE LEgation's 140l, March 5, GErman press
894.60/3-
reports as war moves closer to Japs war industries bEing
reorganized and special Efforts madE Expand production
among measures rEcently adopted are: iron steel industries
supplied with coal raw materials from Manchuria and Japan
1245
proper instead southern territories machinE tool industry
added to list Essential armaments industries prices
increased to stimulatE production Existing premiums cooper
lead iron orE Extended to aluminum magnesium and other
minerals mines given preferential treatment in labor supply
MAR 3 1 1945
somE cases factory labor transferred to mines.
FILED
HARRISON
OFFICE
RB
CS/MAJ
cau
DOR .U
COMMODITIES DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARE FORM NO. 
DATE: 8/3/45
TO
: A-C - Mr. Thorp
SUBJECT:
There have been numerous dis-
cussions on this question of the
dollar-yen rate and the proposal to
General Crist in this letter has
the approval of Treasury.
OFD:DMPhelps:db

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
FC-CPE
DIRECTOR
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
DC/R
United States Department of Justice
00
Mashington,d.C
PERSONAL AND CONFIDEITIAL 4
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
22
BY SPECIAL LESSENGER
40℃
110-3
FILE NUMBER
RD
Date:
April 4, 1945
/4-445
in. E File
To:
Ir. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
APR 4 1945
Director of Foreign Activity Correlation
901
Department of State
LEPARTN
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
ENDUSTRY IN JAPAI
There is attached hereto a memorandun concerning industry in Japan which is
based upon information obtained from Chilean newspapermen and a diplomatic official of
the Chilean Government stationed at Yokohana, Japan, all of whom returned to Chile from
Japan in 1942.
It will be noted that the attached report furnishes information concerning the
location of one of the largest shipyards in Hakata and an important hydroelectric plant
and coal mines operated by the Japanese in Asia. Attention is directed to the statement
that the Japanese intended to use the hydroelectric plant at Kirin to supply electrit cur-
rent for all of Manchuria. This plant is reported to be about 250 feet high and six-
tenths of a mile in length.
FORVICTORY
This information has been made available to the American Embassy at Santia
BUY
Chile, and it is also being furnished to the Foreign Economic Adhinistration.
UNITED
STATES
WAR
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
BONDS
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
War Department, Washingtoh, D
AND
STAMPS
Attention: Brigadien-General
C. W. Clarke
Enclosure

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
March 13, 1945
R.:
JAPAN SE INDUSTRY
Santiago, Chile
As a result of extensive Interviews with Souroes C, D
and , who were 1n Japan from September, 1941, unt1l June, 1942,
no informatlon of a specific nature was developed regarding
Industrial production in Japan. ven though these sourees visited
various factories and industrial areas they were unable to furnish
any statistloal data on produotion. In general, they stated that
the industrlal factories wero well constructed and that modern
machinery and up-to-date manufacturine processes were being used.
In thls connection, however, Source  stated that in his opinion
the manufacturln processes used were not up-to-date in any sense
of the word and he did not bel leve that they resulted in a high
productive output. ac!h of these sources stressed the point that
Japan was woefully weak in raw materials, but that as a result of
the li htning attacks subseyuent to ecember 7, l941, they seized
areas suon as the hilippine Islands, Sumatra, French Indo-China
and the Lalay Peninsula, wnicn were rion in copper, rubber, oil
and other materlals of vital importance to Japan's war produotion.
These sources stated that the regions of Osaka-Nagoya-
Kobe and Tokyo-rokohama are the most important manufacturing oenters
in Japan. ithin these reclons are located innumerable factories
in the manufacture of heavy machinery, rolling stook, cotton, silk,
paper and some chemical products. Large important shipyards are
located at Kobe and also alon the coast between Yokohama and Tokyo.
These sources fur ished the following information con-
cerning the localitles listed below. According to them, these
areas are extremely Important froa the standpoint of the location
of strategic war industries:
HAKATA
Capital of the epartment of Fukucka, on the Island of
Kyushu. One of the largest Japanese shipyards is lo-
cated in this city. Source  pointed out that the
workers here lived within the limits of the shipyard
itsclf and were permitted to leave only once a week.
No relative was ever permitted to visit any of the
workers within the shipyard.
NAGASAKI
Looated on the western side of the Island of Kyushu
and in the epartment of Nagasaki. A very important
naval base was reported by these sources to be located
at Na asaki.
SHLONOSI
This port is located on the southern tip of the Depart-
mont of Yamaguohi. Between this port and the port of
Mojii, located at the northern ond of the Department
an.23. 1976- FB1#2
By sRm
1217128

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
of Fukuoka, Island of Kyushu, a tunnel was construsted
under the water, and the souroes mentioned above stated
that they are positive that enormous traffie passes
through this tunnel.
Located 29 miles east of  ukden (also spelled Moukden),
FUSHUN
Manchuria. l re there is located a number of large
coal mines. The productive area 1s believed to be
4.5 miles long, over 200 yards wide and over 150 yards
in depth.
MUKDEN
One of the prinoipal cities in Manchuria and the site
(MOUKD)
of several large airplane factories.
KIRIN
Looated northoast of Mukden and 125 miles east of
Hainking, wanchuria. At Kirin there is located the
most important hydroelectric plant in Asia. Sourees
C and D, who actually visited this plant, stated that
the Japanese intended this plant to be the souree of
electrio current for all Manchuria. The plant, which
is located in a mountainous area, is reported to be
about 255 feet high and six-tenthe of a mil• long.
HARBIN
A very 1mportant city located in Manohukuo. Here there
are reported to be located several large air fields
and numerous military garrisons. It is believed that
several of the Japanese concentration oamps are located
in the vicinity of Harbin.
Concerning transportation in Japan, Sources C, D and E
stated that the Japanese nave developed a wonderful raiiroad systom
most of whicn has been electrified by this time. All roads between
cities in Japan are very poor and it is practioally impossible to
carry on any volume of shipping by truck. all shipping of any
consequence must be handled by bout or rail.
Neliable Source F, who was in Japan from December, 1939,
unt1l June, 1942, stated that Japan purohased a great quantity of
copper and copper concentrates from Chile during those years. A
small amount of copper is mined in northern Japan, espeeially in
the vicinity of Kosaka, rovince of Akita. Inasmuch as the eopper
content was so low, all of the copper mined in Japan had to be
mixed with imported copper. According to this source, the Japanose
Government constructed several copper refineries in Japan and in
orea, the exact locatlons of which will be set out below. After
the conquest of the Philippine Islands, Japan had a source for good
copper. In order to avoid unnecessary transportation, a complete
copper refinery was shipped to the Philippines and set up in the
same area where the copper is mined. This source was unable to
furnish the location of this particular refinery.
-2-

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Following are the names and locations of the copper
refineries which the Japanese Government construeted In Japan and
Korea. It should be noted that while this souree was in Japan he
recorded the exact location of these refineries on maps which he
was successful in bringing to Chile:
HITACHI
This refinery is located a short distance to the north
of the City of Mito, in the Department of Ibaraki.
HASSAI
Tmis refinery 1s located in Northern Japan, in the
northwest corner of the Department of Akita. It is
located a s ort distance to the east of the City of
Tsubaki.
MIYAXO
This refinery is located in the City of Miyako, a
coastal city in the Province of Iwate. Souroe F stated
that while in Japan he was rsliaoly informed that the
Japanese had construoted a synthetio nitrate plant at
Miyako.
KAISHU
This refinery is looated in the City of Kaishu, a
coastal city in the Department of Kokai, Korea.
CHOKO
This refinery is located on the Yellow Sea at the
southern tip of the Department of Chuseinan, Korea.
KOHNAN
This refinery is located on the Sea of Japan, a short
distance south of the City of Kanko, Departmont of
Kankyonan, Koroa.
BUMPYO
Tris refinery Is located in the City of Jensan, which
is in the southern part of the Department of Kankyonan,
Korea.
Source 0 advised that he resided in Japan from 1929 to
ly4l, when he came to Chile. He left his wife and two children in
Yokohame. hile In Japan, tais source stated, he devoted most of
his time to the fishing industry and because of that, spent the
greater part of every year on the Island of Hokkaido. He stated
that until he left Japan in 194l, the Japanese Government had not
constructed any industrial factories nor made any military instal-
lations on the Island of Hokkaido. le stated there are about 18
fishing ports around the 1sland and each port has about 200. to 250
thousand Inhaoitants. Tnis source was unable to furnish any in-
formation concerniny industrial produotion in Jupan proper. He
stated that to the best of nis knowledge a large naval base is
located at Yokohama and that along the coast between Yokohama and
Tokyo there were located several shipyards for the construotion of
buttleships and submarines. He added that, generally speaking, the
factories for war production are lodated in the vicinity of the citios
of Osaka, Kobe, Nagoya and Tokyo.
-3-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.88)
July 2,100
In reply refer to
A-C
CRT
My uear Mr. Johnstone:
This lotter will confirm recunt conversations
wm.ich you lave hud with Lrs. Duughorty and with me.
894.60/7-245
In connection sith a program of papers wiich the
State Do urtment is pre aring for the Stato-War-Hevy
Cooruinating Committee, it will be very useful to
Lave  draft statoment on the role of heavy industry
in the Japomosu cconomy. The statoment should not
caceed 10 pates in length and should cover those
industries viicn vo hav agrued to define as "heavy"
ror uds urpose. I beliuve you have this list.
Sincerely yours,
uwin M. Mrtin, Advisor
CS
Fer st cconomle Affuire
/0
BF
Conf dential Fi
JUN
Mr. ul Jomnston.
891.60
JUL
Criof of Japan  cciel Survices Staff,
2
momy Branch,
2
Forcign conomic Administratien,
1945
Washington 25, D. C.
le
F
f
Crir
6/27/45

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO.4
894.60/8-345
8/3/45
DATE:
TRC: Mr. Radius
TO
SD: Mr. Deimel
FROM : ED: Mr. Lockhart
sUECT: "Heavy Industry in Japan"
AUG 291949
E
..
894.60
8-345

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
Yu. Ra
Mr. Satinae
Secret
HRAYY INDUSTRY IR JAPAX
THE PROBLEM
1. What should be the United States polioy in the military
government period with respect to heavy industry in Japen
Proper?
BASIC FACTORS
FW894.
2. See Appendim A.
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix B.
6
0
CONCLUSIONS
8
requires that:
E
1) Estimates be made, industry by industry, of
(a) Demilitarization requirements in respect to heavy
F
and essential measures on the one hand and supporting
reinforcing measures on the other. The essential
requirements of the Japanese economy should be borne
in mind in choosing between alternative methods of
achieving a given rosult.
Secret
(b) Peacetims

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
(b) Peacetime requirements of the Japanese eesmony! sesh
estimates to distinguish between requirements for
supporting a minimm subsistenee level and these
necessary to support a level reasonable as a minimm
starting point for normal peaceful development. It is
suggested that per capita consumption in 1931, or
possibly 1942, be used as a guide in the determination
of the production necessary to support subsistense
levels; and 1936 as a guide in the determination of
more adequate production levels. In estimating sub-
sistence requirements, reconstruotion needs in the
immediate post-war omergenay period, as well as mormal
maintenance needs, must be taken into aocount. In
using 1936 as a guide allowance must be made for that
part of hoavy industrial output (probably around 40%)
which went for military purposes. Only the remainder
should be regarded as aasential for normal operation.
Consideration must be given to types of heavy industry
required in producing exports to buy needed imports,
as well as to heavy industries which can serve the
domestic economy directly. In this connection the
prospects for Japan in respect to foreign markets must
be taken into account. Inoluded here will be a con-
sideration of the expected courso of economie develepment
of Japan's probable customers and competitors.
(c) Probable
Secret

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
(e) Probable or possible reparatiens elaims as to amsasts
and types of goods.
2) Priorities in respect to our various objectives should
be establishsd as follows:
(a) Essential demilitarization requirements should take
priority over all other considerations. In eases
where conflict may arise because disarmament calls
for denial to the Japanese economy of eertain im-
dustrial facilities whose operation in the form pre-
soribed would appear of great value to reconstruetion
or maintenance of subsistence standards of living, the
use of the facilities under close supervision of the
occupation authorities and aftor careful consideration
may be permitted on condition either
(1) That no large scale replacements are made, but
that the facilities are merely used until worn out; or
(2) That the facilities are removed to alaimant countries
on reparations account at the end of a specified
period.
(b) The minimum requirements of the economy, whether for
maintaining subsistence or more adequate levels as
designated above, should be placed ahead of "supporting"
security measures in the sanse that the burden of proof
in cases of conflict should be regarded as resting
upon arguments for demilitarisation.
The
Secret

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
The requirements of the Japanese economy, as defimsé
above, should also be placed aheed of reperatiens
elaims, exsept that facilities not essential to mimimem
subsistence but essential as a starting point fer fur
ther recovery may be temporarily assigned to predustism
so
for reparations purposes. The facilities lused, hewevers
should not be removed from Japan for reparations, or
any other purposes.
(c) Productive facilities over and above those required
in (b) should be withdrawn from the Japanese eeondmy
to the extent required by demilitarisation measures
of lower priority.
(d) Disposition of productive facilities of those heavy
industries denied to the Japanese economy for dis-
armament purposes should be postponed until the
Demilitarization Commission, operating in conjunetion
with military government and with the Reparations
such facilities
Commission, can decide whether bkey should be converted
to civilian use in Japan, tranaferred to liberated or
other areas, or destroyed.
(e) Relief and reparations claims should have first eall
on productive facilities or on their produet after the
requirements of demilitarization and the needs of the
Japanese economy (for reconstruction, minimm subsistence,
and economic-recovery purposes) have been met; in
addition,
Secret

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
addition, they should have first eall on the prodmet
of any facilities not required for reconstructiem or
for maintaining subsistence standards of living.
3) Subsidies and all other forms of proteetion of heavy
industry should be abolished, exsept that in cases where
shortage of supplies and of foreign exchange in the emergeney
period appears to justiry it, the government may assist
those industries where necessary to avoid undesirable
inoreases in the cost of living.
APPENDIX A - BASIC FACTORS
I. Basic Obiectives
It is understood that the imediate economio objeetives
of United States post-war policy towards Japan are:
(a) To enforce a program of demilitarization.
(b) To control the Japanese economy so as to meet the needs
of the ocoupation forces and the minimum subsistence
requirements of the civilian population.
(c) To arrange for relief, restitution, and reparations.
Underlying these immediate objectives are the long-range
aims of:
(a) Creating conditions which will insure that Japan will
not again become a menace to the peace and segurity of
the world.
(b) Encouraging
Secret

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
(b) Emoouraging the development of a politieally and essm-
omically demooratie Japan within the framework of a seund
and well balanced Far Eastern economy - not only as am
end in itself, but as a long-run seeurity measure.
II. Basia Asmmmtions
It is assumed:
(1) That there will be a full scale military occupation of
Japan of not less than two years.
(2) That it is the purpose of the United States to mchieve
the above objeotives with the minimum of control mmchinery.
(3) That the former empire-economic ties between Japan Proper
and areas st prseent under her domination will be
completely severed.
(4) That technical demilitarization and reparations commissions
will operate in conjunction with military government in
formulating and applying final policies within the limits
of general policy directives.
APPENDIX B - DISCUSSION
I. Lafinitiona and Scone
The term "heavy industry" as used in this report covers
the following branches of industry: iron and steel, ferro-alloys,
non-ferrous metals, coal and coke, oils, rubber products, ehemicals,
electric power, and the manufacture of transportation equipment,
equipment
Secret

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-7
equipment for the generation and transmission of light, pewsr,
and heat, industrial machinery and equipment, and mmehime teals.
Cartain branches of heavy industry, as emumerated above,
and eertain aspeets of policy in respect to it are dealt with
in separate reports and therefore excluded from speeial con-
sideration here. These are armaments, aircraft, shipbuilding,
and policy in respect to the present concentration of ownership
and control of Japanese heavy industry.
II. The Impartance of Heavy Industry in the Jananese Reonamy
The development of heavy industries in Japan is of fairly
recent date. With 1ts achievement, Japan became a modern
country with an integrated economy of the western type. .In the
twenty years preceding the present war, Japan showed outstand-
ing progress in the speed of expansion of her heavy industrial
system, unsurpassed by any other development in her economy.
The rise in importance of the heavy industries was accelerated
by her preparations for war.
Value of Preduction of Heavy Industry
In 1926 the value of production for metals, machines and
tools, and chemicals amounted to 1,796 million yen. In 1937,
the total value for the same three branches of heavy industry
equalled 8,829 million yen. From the table below 1t may be
seen that while the total value of industrial production in-
creased only 2.4 times from 1926 to 1937, the value of products
in the metals industry was more than 7.6 times, in machines and
tools
Secret

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-8
teals 4.6 times, and in chemicals 3.8 times the 1926 level.
The share of heavy industry in the combined valus of preduetien
of mining, mnufacturing, agriculture, stockbreeding, fishing,
and forestry amounted to 41% in 1937 and since then has ur-
doubtedly risen.
TABLE I.
Index of Value of Production
Matala
Machinea & Toolg
Chemicals
All Induatries
1926
100
100
100
100
1937
756
445
379
236
Since the so-called "Chine Incident" in 1937, the heavy
industries of Japan have made new strides in expansion, especielly
before and soon after Pearl Harbor.
Importance of Employment in Heavy Industry
From 1930 to 1944 the total number of cmployees in manu-
facturing and construction industries increased from 5.9 to
9.4 million or approximately 60 per cent. However, employment
in heavy industries increased 4.3 times. Relatively, in 1930
only 23% of all employees in manufacturing and construction were
in the heavy industries, whereas in l944, 61% were so employed.
Employment in the heavy industries increased not only by absorb-
ing the entire increase in the labor force but also by diverting
workers to heavy industry from other industries.
Secret
Table II

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE II.
Latirated Distribution of Eanlexment.1930 41944
(in thousands)
1930
2244
Estimated Labor Force
29,450
32,700
Total for Mamufacturing and
Construction Industries
5,876
9,400
Eaploved in Heavy Industriee
Total
1,351
5,750
Metals
399
800
Machinery and Tools
248
1,400
Shipbuilding
100
500
Aircraft
9
800
Vehicles
60
150
Ordnance
34
400
Chemicals
201
900
Mining
300
800
Percent of Employment in
Heavy Industries to Total in
Mamufacturing and Construction
23%
618
Government Assistance in Develonment of Heavy Industry
The development of heavy industries was achieved despite
the lack of raw materials by two arrangements, one artificial
and one potentially dangerous in time of war. In the first place,
the government supported industries by subsidies, part ownership,
and reduced taxmtion; in the second, the heavy industries were
built up with a dependence on imports for the bulk of their
necessary raw materials.
In order to assist in the rapid development of heavy industry,
the government itself has become an important stockholder in
various plants. The Japanese Government organized and is the
largost
Secret

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-10
largest stockhelder of the Nippon Seitetsu, the mest impertamt
produeer of iren and steel products in the Empire. The tetal
capitalization of this mammoth business concern amounted te
 394,900,000 1n 1936, of which the Government owned y 284,200,000.
A system of subsidies was also set up by the Govermment
to spur production in certain heavy industries. In 1943 reperted
subsidies amounted to 683 million yen for coal, 229 million fer
iron, and 36 million for oil.
In an effort to overcome some of its dependence for raw
materials on outside areas, Japan has given grants to industries
for research in technologies to improve methods of produetion,
to develop home resources in place of imported materials (fer
example, the use of iron sands), and to develop synthetic
materials to replace needed raw materials (such as synthetie oil).
Heavy Industry'a Denendence on Imports
The dependence of heavy industries of pre-war Japan on
imports of raw mmterials from the colonies and foreign countries
is shown in Table III. The largest imports from the outside
were iron ore, aluminum, zinc and lead, whereas domestic produetion
of coal and copper was relatively high. The production of steel
is dependent on imported scrap iron, and aluminum on the import
of bauxite.
Secret
Table III

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
TABLE IXI
Ialume Ratio of Dameatia Praduation to Demand of Priaaiml
(Consumption = 100)
Home
Imports from
Imperts from
Material
Production
Colonies
Iron ores
12.5
5.3
82.2
Pig iron
64.6
12.8
22.6
Steel
91.6
1.6
6.8
Copper
61.7
3.5
34.8
Alumimum
40.5
59.5
0
Zinc
37.0
63.0
Lead
8.0
92.0
Coal
89.2
6.5
4.3
Includin Manchuria
It should be noted that the relatively small amount of
imports of coal does not give a true picture of the needs, how-
ever, since Japan had to import most of her coking coal, necessary
for the production of coke.
Effect on Rest of Sconomy of Decrease in Heavy Induatry
Due to the integration of heavy industry in Japan with the
whole economic system, any cessation of production will not only
throw an important segment of the population out of work and
materially affect the national income, but it will also have
far-reaching effects on other economic enterprises. For emmple,
the
Secret

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-12
to 17.904 million tens out of a total cargo of 55 milliem tens
carried in 1934, or 325 of all Japanese Empire shipping ef
essential comodities. The largest single item was eeal, which
amounted te approximately 25 pereent of the total shipped, Mere-
over, mineral products constituted 46 pereent of the tetal geeds
meved on railroads in Japan in 1936. The demand for elestrie
power will be severely reduced by the loss of the heavy industry
consumers as will be seen from the table below.
TABLE IV
Consumption of Electric Power by Industries
(in 1,000 kwh)
1934
1938
Total consumption of all industry
9,264,568
18,587,369
Metals
1,200,700
4,850,078
Machines and Tools
292,408
1,327,433
Chemicals
4,044,205
7:747:379
Total
5,537,313
13,924,890
Percentage of Heavy Industries
to Total Consumption
59%
74%
This table demonstrates how the removal of three industries
would reduce the demand for electric power which Japan has
developed for her industrial machine.
In the post-surrender period, it should be anticipated that
there will be a critical situation in the heavy industries of
Japan. A large portion of the industrial activity devoted to
military products will be eliminated. Demand for raw and semi-
manufactured
Secret

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
mamufactured goods will drop. The contraction of heavy insustry
will be intensified by the loss of markets outside of Japan
Proper. Moreover, as has been pointed out above, the readjust-
ment in other industries due to the decline of the heavy
industries will have a very serious repercussion on the whele
industrial activity of Japan. It is probably safe to prediet
that approximately one-half of the people formerly employed in
the manufacturing and constructlon industries will be unemployed
in the critical transitional period after the surrender.
I1I. Factors in Policy Formulation
Demilitarization, the minimwn needs of the Japanese economy,
reparations, and the long-range objectives of the United States
in the Far East and the internetional field generally, are all
matters which must be taken into consideration in devising a
post-war policy in respect to Japanese heavy industry. This
report seeks to examine the implications for Japanese heavy
industry of our policies on each of these subjects and to suggest
the guideposts and procedures by which decisions may be reached
with respect to the capacity which the Japanese should be per
mitted to retain in each major segment of heavy industry. These
decisions will seldom satisfy all our objectives; they will be
compromises in which the various objectives will have different
weights but which taken together resemble as closely as possible
a unified and consistent program. Too many factual questions
must
secret

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-14
must remain unanswered until we are in Japen to permit speeifie
recommendations at this time, though more detailed studies
ean undoubtedly narrow greatly the area of decision which will
remain at the tine of surrender.
Demilitarization Policies
Extent of Restriction of lleavy Industry. Other pepers
provide for the elimination of specialized capacity for the
production of implements of war, including ships, and of air
craft of all types. It remains to be considered what steps
are necessary to eliminate
"heavy industry capacity in excess of normal
peace-time requirements and those key industries
upon which an extensive war industry can be re-
developed." (SW.CC 150, C.1)
There is first the problem of identifying war industries
of a non-specialized character. An approximate method of
identification is indicatec by the fact that stoppage of the
production of armaments by tho military authorities will im-
mediately affect the basic industries and intermediary industries
supplying the materials for military end-produets. Estimates
of the basic industry capscity that would be affected and,
behind that capacity, estimates of raw materials involved in
the denial of all plant capacity now producing military end-
products will provide a yard-stick for determining the elements
in Japan's industrial structure exelusively devoted to war
Secret
purposes.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-15
purposes. By this method it would be possible elso to establish
a level of industrial capacity which in general would be belew
the danger line for maintaining or creating a war machine.
However, a policy of banning all production identified as
being for war purposes in 1944 or 1945 would be seriously
defective. On the one hand, it would be inadequate at points
where demilitarization required the complete elimination of a
particular branch of industry rather than curtailnent to civilian
output levels. On the other hand, since heavy industry must in
recent years have been devoted almost entirely to the production
of war materiel, the use of this criterion would mean the virtual
elimination of such inuustry. Complete and continued suppression
would be a serious administrative task and furthermore, if it
were successfully acccaplished, would deal a severe if not mortal
blow to the Japanese economy.
Even after war industrles have been identified, therefore,
there still remains the problem of indicating more precisely the
kind and amount of capacity to bo denied the Japanese economy.
In order to devise a workable demilitarization policy and
one which can be reconciled with other purposes, it is suggested
that disarmament measures be defined in respect to their degree
of urgency and strategic importance for war and for control
purposes. The purpose of grading security measures in this way
w ould be to establish a basis for working out priorities in
cases of conflict and to mark out the limits of a security
Secret
program

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
pregram eonsistent with feasible adsinistration. Demilitarime-
tisn measures should be formulated on twe or more levels - an
upper level relating to those branches of industry whese
elimination or restriction is considered essential, andlewer
levels relating to controls which would be valuable in enfereing
the basie measures, but which are of somewhat less critieal
importance.
The area of essential controls would probably inelude in-
dustries of the type usually designated as "key" industries,
including aluminum, magnesium, synthetic oil, synthetie rubber,
and perhaps high alloy steel and machine tools.
Technical considerations will predominate in the selection
of key industries. In the marking out of the less vital areas
and the determination of permissible levels of output, however,
an additional criterion, namely, the test of "excessive capacity",
may be utilized, though engineering criteria will of course be
decisive here also. Excessive capacity in heavy industry may be
defined as that part of total capacity in excess of the amount
used for civilien purposes in pre-war years. Specifically, it
1s suggested that production levels in 1936 be adopted as a
guide. (Reasons for selecting 1936 are discussed below, see p. 28)
The "exeessive capacity" test is particularly valuable as a guide
to demilitarisation policies in that it provides a device for
eliminating at the outset conflict between disarmament require-
ments and needs-of-the-economy requirements; for it establishes
a dividing
secret

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-17
a dividing line on one side of which falls "normal" pesestime
production, and on the other, war productien. However, it cammet
be expected that this test will be of more than suberdimate
significance to be applied in cases of doubt; consequently, it
cannot be counted upon to eliminate all confliet between dis-
armament requirements and those of Japan's peacetime ecenemy.
One general principle should be borne in mind in the fimal
drawing up of the specific demilitarization measures, mamely,
that the initial restriction of heavy industry should be severe
enough to allow for possible loopholes in the control meehanisms
and for a gradual relaxation of controls without loss of essential
safeguards as progress towards peaceful recrganisation of the
y
economy ocours. The progressive lifting of controls/provide an
effective stimulus to desired political and economic developments.
If a policy of selective, rather than blanket, eliminatien
of heavy industries is adopted, special provision must be made
for the fact that future scientific developments may alter methods
of warfare in such a way as to shift the emphasis to types of
products different from those which are now regarded as critical.
Furthermore, ingenious alternatives for industrial processes now
suppressed may be developed by the Japanese. One method of pro-
viding against such contingencies is, of course, to ban heavy
induatry in a wholesale manner, in the hope that all potential
danger points will thus be included. It is believed, however,
that a more effective solution to the problem and one which
confliets
Secret

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
-18
cenflists less with other objectives would be te ensesver to
adjust centrol measures to technological changes as they eseur.
Xature_af Contrala
This paper is conserned basically with the initial re-
duction of plant capacity to the maximm permissible levels.
The maintenance of both capacity and production within the limits
permitted by security considerations will be covered in a paper
on "Long-Range Control of Japanese Rearmament".
The initial reduction may best be accomplished by turning
over to the Technical Disarmament and Demilitarimatien Com-
mission the task of determining the facilities of whieh the
Japanese are to be deprived in order to bring capacity within
the limits to be decided upon in accordance with the prineiples
laid down in this paper. These facilities mmy then be cartified
to the military government for transfer on reparations sccount,
conversion to other types of production in which capacity is
not limited or in which war damage has left less than the per-
mitted amount, or scrapping.
Basic Needs of the Jananese Economy
As in the case of demilitarization measures, estimates of
the requirements of the Japanese economy in respect to the
products of heavy industry should be graded by levels of urgeney
in point of time, or essentiality. Those types of produets re-
quired for immediate reconstruction of essential facilities end
for maintaining the Japanese population at a minimum subsistence
Secret
standard

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
standard of living should have the highest priority rating.
Next in line will be the additional amounts of plant, equiyment,
ete., needed to give Japan a starting point for some measure
of economic recovery on a self-supporting basis.
Minimum Subgistence Requirements
In this connection, estimates should be made of (a) the
supplies needed for the rehabilitation of essential services to
the extent necessary to protect the public health and to main-
tain the production and distribution of requisite civilian
suprlies. Particular emphasis should be placed on the rehabili-
tatien of transportation and communication facilities and of
water, electric, and gas utilities; (b) the types and amounts of
goods needed for the normal consumption requirements of the
economy at minimum subsistence levels. The output of consumption
goods in the year 1931, the low point of t depression, would
supply more guidance in this connection than outputs of recent
war years. It is believed that the very low consumption levels
indicated for the war years by official figures should not be
used as a post-war standard. Still less should estimates of war-
time production of consumption goods be used. In the first place,
the official figures probably exaggerate the actual eurtailment
of consumption; they represent goals, rather than records of
accomplishment. Secondly, wartime consumption levels have
depended for their acceptance upon patriotism and coercion, and
the occupation authorities would probably be met with serious
non-cooperation
Secret

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-20
nem-ceoperation and unrest if they attempted to impose sush
severe standards for e prolonged period. Finally, Japan, like
most other countries, has been living on its capital during
the war, and as time goss on more and more replacements ef
produetive facilities in consumer industries and of consumer
durable goods will be needed to sustain even the wartime
living standards.
The requirements coming under these heads can theoretically
be met if necessary by imports rather than by indigenous pre-
duction. It is to be remembered, however, that the reconstrue-
tion needs of countries devastated by war will be heavy and will
be added to the"normal" accumulation of civilian requirements of
all other cou.tries returning from war to peace. At the same
time many countries - notably Japan - will undoubtedly suffer
from an acute ahortage of exportable goods and hence of foreign
exc hange with which to purchase needed supplies. In the light
of these facts and since it is our stated policy when giving
assistance for relief or rehabilitation purposes to give priority
to liberated areas, it is to be concluded that there are compel-
ling reasons for making the greatest possible use of Japenese
home industry.
Economic Recovery in Janan
Our generel policy objectives clearly imply that Japan should
bo allowed, if possible, to retain some industrial facilities
over and above those necessary to support the population at
subsistence
Secret

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
subsistence levels. The importance of this consideratien is
frequently underestimated. The threat of renewed aggressien
by Japan - if it is to reappear - would be mest apt to shew
itself not five or ten, but fifteen, twenty or twenty-five
years hence. By that time, experience shows, years of peaee will
have roduced the consciousness of danger in the United States and
other Pacific countries, and the restrictions imposed on Japanese
military strength at the peace settlement will very likely have
been relaxed to a point where they will have lost much of their
effectiveness. Our determination to keep Japan militarily impetent
will have weakened, but Japan's desire to free herself from the
restrictions may have strengthened. Moreover, military seeurity
against Japanese aggression, or participation in acts of aggression
initiated by others, will alwmys be dependent to a large degree
on international cooperation. It would be foolhardy to prediet
now that the next generation will necessarily see a great
strengthening of international bonds; it is greatly to be hoped
for, but cannot be counted on in formulating United States poliey.
As the years pass it is reasonable to believe that security from
Japanese aggression will cowe to depend more and more on how
greatly Japanese attitudes, motivations and policies change and
reduce the impetus toward war within Japan - and it is to be
hoped,also, on effective international security arrangements -
and progressively less on the various restrictions we impose.
Such changes, however, will be possible only in an atmosphere
of reasonable prosperity. We cannot-be certain an economically
Secret
viable

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-22
viable Japan will beeome a peaceful Japan - Germany with eme of
the highest living standards in Europe has started three majer
wars and two minor wars in the last 75 years. But we ean be
certain that if Japan is kept impoverished and destitute, es-
pecially if her destitution is the result of economie restrietiens
imposed upon her by the victors, she will not change, or if she
does it will be for the worse. Rather the military spirit will
tend to be perpetuated and even intensified. It is only if she
is afforded opportunity to achieve a reasonably satisfactory
living standard, with hope of gradual improvement of that stan-
dard through legitimate enterprise, that an environment will be
created in which her conversion to peaceful attitudes can be
accomplished. In principle, therefore, Japanese pemcetime
industry should not be restricted to achieve a theoretically
perfect condition of disarmament where such restriction would
seriously handicap the operation of the peacetime economy.
The position taken here that Japan should be permitted to
retain some part of her heavy industries, it must be emphasiged,
is predicated on the assumption that such a policy will be co-
ordinated with serious efforts directed towards the demoeratie
reorientation of Japan, politically and economicelly. As a
safeguard against the possibility that an unreformed Japan might
be turned loose with significant amounts of heavy industry left
intact it is proposed that we begin with maximum attention to
demilitarization requirements and minimum concessions to the
needs-of-the-economy. Relaxation of controls can then be made
Secret
dependent

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
dependent upen the grorth in Japan of peaceful institutiems and
attitudes.
The problem here is to determine what criteris sheuld be
applied in deciding the minimum amounts and types of heavy
industry which Japan would need (a) to provide at least a start-
ing point for some measure of economic recovery! and (b) te aveid
ereating excessive unemployment and economic distress.
An estimate of Japan's needs in these respects must be
based on an understanding of the role which heavy industry has
played in Japan's economy and would be likely to play if allowed
free development in a peaceful economy in the future. Various
facts have been presented in Section II of this repert. Their
significance for the present question may be summarized as fellews:
The Japanese metals and machinery industries in 1936, when
Japan's economy was still organized primarily on a peacetime
basis, accounted for 32 percent of the total value of factory
production and 28 percent of all factory employment. If the
chemical industries were to be included in these totals the
propertions would be respectively 50 and 39 percent. Japan's
heavy industries, as those of any modern industrial nation, form
a highly important part of her industrial structure. Their loss
would have several very important effects:
(a) The country's entire requirements of heavy industrial
products for reconstruction and future industry and trade would
have
Secret

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-24
have to be imperted, imposing a heavy burden on its balanes of
payments.
(b) Efferts for Japan's further modernization and indus-
trial development (reads, sanitation, building, and a gradual
1mprovement of agricultural and industrial techniques) would be
greatly hampered.
(c) Japan would be unable to participate in the provision
of capital goods to an industrialising China, India or Nether-
lands Indies, where otherwise there may be some demand for
Japanese cheap but serviceable heavy products.
Some have argued that Japan until the 'thirties possessed
very little heavy industrial capacity, specialising in textiles
and other light manufactures, and yet possessed an adequmte liv-
ing standard. In 1928 all heavy exports combined comprised only
3.8 percent of total exports. why, it is asked, could she not
learn to rely on her light industries again?
The importance of the heavy industries in Japanese economy
before 1930 is frequently underestimated. Even in the early
'twenties, when armaments production was at a minimum, the
metals, machinery and chemical group accounted for approximately
a fourth of factory production and employment. Had Japan been
required to import all of her heavy industrial requirements
during the 'twenties her living standards might have been appre-
ciably lower.
But
Secret

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
most
But the/impertant reasen to doubt that Japan sould achieve
an adequate subsistense if deprived of her heavy industries is
the difficulty she will undoubtedly experience in finding as
extensive markets for her light exports as she did during the
'twenties. Silk, which in that relatively prosperous deeade
made up as much as 40 percent of Japan's exports, and which
even in 1940 was still in point of net return the country's
leading export iten, will face a much reduced demand. (A higher
value of cotton textiles was exported, but the raw material had
to be imported.) Further, industrialization in economically
backward Far Eastern countries may seriously curtail some of
Japan's leading markets for cotton textiles, ceramics, cheap
wetal and rubber goods, and other light exports. These countries,
1f they follow the usual pattern, will develop the light
industries first, and will raise trade barriers for their pro-
tection. While industrialization will promote higher living
standards and increased demands for many types of produets, those
demands are more likely to be for capital goods, or for consumers
goods requiring heavy industrial equipment for their mamufacture,
than for light products; and while it is not to be desired, for
security reasons, that Japan should monopolize or even predominate
in this trade, there seems to be good reason for creating con-
ditions under which she can participate in it in moderation.
While the above discussion indicates that the Japanese
economy would suffer severly under a program of unsparing
elimination

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
-26
eliminatien of heavy industry, there is another side te the
qeestion. Seme curtailment, it eppears, far frem ruming direet-
ly counter to natural economic forces would be in harmony with
thes.
First, it is to be noted that in all probability Chimm and
Manchuria, as the possessors of rich resources of coal and iren,
will eventually become the centers of heavy industry in the Far
East, particularly with the start these areas will have while
Japan is repairing war dammge. The principles of comparative
advantage further suggest that the Japanese economy must in the
long run be built around the exploitation of her geographie
position as a commercial center and the development of special
skills and techniques. It may be anticipated, therefore, that
eventually natural developments - if the environment is one of
international freedom of trade - will of themselves place
limitations on Japan's industrial strength and reduce her internal
war potential.
Secondly, as indicated above ( ection II, App.B), heavy
industry in Japan is largely a hothouse growth, and while
subsidies and other forms of protection including war contracts
may merely have accelerated its inevitable development, it is more
probable that many branches of heavy industry would not have
developed as fully, if at all, if left to themselves.
Finally, it may be argued that Japanese heavy industries
represont a distorted growth for the reason that they have
dopended
Secret

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
27
depended upen umbalanee - specirically topheaviness - in the
ecenemy. With Japan's low per capita income, it has required
a heavy coneentratien of wealth and income to provide the savings
necessary to establish capital goods industries on a large seale.
It may even be that the existence of such savings, pressing fer
investment outlets, has aeted as a stimulus to the develepment
of heavy industries. In any svent, if the effect of eur pest-
war policies should be to achieve a wider distributien of inceme
in Japan, it is to be expected that total consumption at any
given level of national income would be larger than in pre-war
years, savings would be smaller, and a redistribution of demand,
with less emphasis on heavy industries, would oceur. If, in
other words, the Japanese economy should become orientated more
towards general wolfare and loss towards privilege, some part of
heavy industry might die a natural death, even if not eliminated
by Allied decision.
It is clearly not possible to identify precisely which branebes
of heavy industry have been fostered artificially or are dependent
upon unbalance in the economy. Even if such identification could
be made, it would not be desirable in every case to eliminate
the branches of industry thus marked out because of the anticipated
shortages of goods and of foreign exchange in the early post-war
period. The appropriate procedure in the light of these facts
would seem to be to remove in the first instance all overt
subsidies and other forms of protection - a step which does not
preelude
Secret

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-28
preelude the resumption of government aid if justified in
particular cases during the emergency period.
The most promising approach to the problem of establishing
eriteria by which to judge the amounts of heavy industry re-
quired as a minimum basis for self-supporting ecanomic resovery
is to select some pre-war year as a guide. Because of the
virtual transformation in the Japanese economy during the
'thirties and because of the character of the outlook for the
future as suggested above, it is difficult to see how the eleck
could be set back as far as 1929 or 1930, the years when the
textile industries reached their peak of relative importance.
The later 'thirties, in particular 1936 as the last pre-war
year, offer a better guide to a production pattern which would
provide Japan with a balanced economy in line with present skills,
technical knowledge, equipment, and prospective markets.
As already stated, allowance should be made for the faet
that ovon by 1936 the Japanese economy was partially on a war
footing. There is no way of knowing precisely how much of Japan's
heavy industry capacity was excessive as the term is here defined.
However, a general idea may be obtained in the following way.
It appears that out of a national income of some Yen 16 billions
in 1936 about Yen 1l billions represented private consumer outlay.
The remaining Yen 5 billions were distributed between government
expenditure and private investment. Yen 1 billion of national
government expenditures are listed under the head "Army and Navy".
In addition
Secret

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
-29
In additien, a part ef private investment eertainly represented
expansien of armements and other heavy industries. A emmparissn
ef investment in Japan with that of other countries is suggestive
in this conmection. Net investment in Japan in 1936 appears to
have constituted about 18.4 percent of the nationel ineome. The
comparable average for eleven other major countries in the
relatively prosperous period 1925 to 1930 was approximately 10
percent. It is not unreasonable to conclude that Japan's
unusually high investment ratio was due to expansion in war
industries, and that investment that might directly contribute
to the raising of consumption levels in Japan was at the most
no larger than the 10 percent average for most of the rest of the
industrial world. On this basis, total war expenditures, inelnd-
1ng governmental, may be put at around Yen 2 billions. A very
large part of these expenditures must have represented outlay
for the products of heavy industry. The combined output of
the metallurgical, engineering, and chemical industries in 1936
is estimated at Yen 5 billions. We should probably not be far
wrong in assuming, therefore, that allowing for understatement of
war expenditures, as much as two-fifths, or Yen 2 billions, of
heavy industriel output went for military purposes. Consequently,
a limitation of heavy industry to three-fifths of its 1936 levels
would give Japan enough heavy industry both to support a eivilian
economy at the "above-subsistence" levels of 1936 and to allow
for a reasonable rate of growth. Overall figures such as the
above
Secret

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
-30
abeve eanmot, of course, by thenselves provide an adequate
basis fer estimating peacetime needs but, when qumlified by
a consideration of prospective post-sar conditions as compared
with those of 1936, ineluding population changes, they may
serve as a rough guide and as a check on estimates built up
piecemeal, product by product.
In order to make accura te estimates, branch by branch, of
industry it would, of course, be necessary to begin from data
relating to basic consumer needs - food, shelter, clothing, ete.-
with 1936 as the guide. These data would indicate the types
and amounts of heavy industry, such as those concerned with
transportation equipment, construction materials, machinery,
fertilisers, and consumer durables needed to support these
consumption levels either directly, or indirectly via experts
to obtain needed imports. To these requirements must of ceurse
be added an allowance for a normal rate of expansion of pro-
ductive facilities.
Reparations
21
Between 1936 and 1939 the gross product of the metallurgical,
chemical, mining, and engineering industries combined is
estimated to have increased two and a half times. Between
1939 and 1944 it undoubtedly underwent another inerease at
least as great as that of the total national ineome, or in
other words it must have doubled again - a total inerease
of nearly 500 percent of the 1936 levels. These figures
suggest the magnitude of the permissible curtailment recom-
mended here and they indicate also that there will have to
be a tremendous percentage reduction by war damage befere
heavy industry capacity will fall back to pre-war levels.
Secret

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
Renaratiens
The integration of reparations policies with the other
objectives is a mtter of establishing a reasonable system of
priorities. It must be recognized at the outset that an
adequate program of demilitarization, plus a reasonable poliey
in respect to Japan's minimua needs, will place limitatiens
upon the amount of reparations which can be paid.
No questions of conflict will arise in cases where claimant
countries will accept in payment of reparations productive facil-
ities which have already been marked for withdrawal from the
Japanese economy. In cases where conflict does arise, it is
believed that the following principles of action should be
adopted: Reparations should not be placed ahead of requirements
for minimum subsistence, or for the occupation forces. Nor
should reparations be placed ahead of minimum requirements fer
economic recovery, as might occur if productive facilities were
removed to claimant countries. However, to the extent that it
is decided to draw upon surrent product in the payment of
reparations, the latter may take priority over economic-recovery
requirements on condition that, after a stipulated period of
time, the productive facilities so used should revert to Japan.
as defined above
When the minimum needs/of the Japanese economy within the limita-
tions imposed by the demilitarization program have been provided
for, reparations should have first call on any remaining pro-
ductive facilities. There would seem to be no case, however,
for
Secret

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
-32
for removing mmchinery or equiyment to elaimant eountries in
cases where it is not established that the recsiving sountries
can utilise the equipment produetively; in other words, removal
sheuld not be made merely fer the sake of depriving Japan ef
such facilities.
It is to be understood finally that no branehes of heavy
industry should be rehabilitated merely for purposes of reparatiens,
though in exceptional cases facilities, which are later to be
dismantled, might be operated under supervision,
Markata
It is assumed to be a basic principle of policy that we
do not interfere with Japanese heavy industries merely for the
purpose of creating advantages for the United States or any.
other country over Japen in international trade. Such aetion
would be entirely contrary to our declared aims, expressed in
the Atlantic Charter, of promoting unhampered international inter-
course.
Possible Effecta of the Wer on Heavy Industry in Japan
The discussion above has been predicated on the assumption
that, in general, heavy industrial facilities will be prosent in
sufficient quantities after the war to create problems of cur-
tailment. It is quite possible, however, that as a result of
war damage and the removal of industry to the mainland there may
be little, if any, need for further restriction. The questions
to be
Secret

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
-33
to be answered will then in the main take two ferms: (1) to
what extent and in what cases should the reestablishment of
beavy industries by the Japanese from their cwn reseuress be
permitted; (2) to what extent and in what oases should assistance
be given in such rehabilitation as is permitted?
The foregoing discussion adequately covers the first
question, for it relates to levels of industry whieh, though
set forth as limits of curtailment, may equally well refer to
limits of reestablishment. The second question, however, has
not been dealt with and requires explicit treatment. It is
understood that, where absolutely necessary, assistance to
Japanese industry may be given for purposes of restoring essential
facilities, and for supporting the Japanese people at minimm
subsistence levels. It is believed, further, as has been stated
above, that it is of vital importance to long-run security that
the Japanese be allowed some prospects of being able to lift
living planes above minimum subsistence levels; and accordingly
such assistance in the rehabilitation of heavy industry as is
essential to this purpose should not be proscribed. It is
recognised, however, that imports for such purposes should be
subject to the proviso that, where supplies are inadequate,
liberated areas should have preferential treatment. Of course,
provision must be made for payment by the Japanese for such
1mports.
Secret
ED:MRDaugherty:ec
Ju1y 27, 1945

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION O
2542 Walnut St.
Allentown, Pa.
August 11, 1945
F = Aux dian
Foreign Service Bureau
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
894.60/8-1145
Congressman Harry L. Towe has recommended that I contact
your Bureau with a view towards securing an appointment as ad-
ministrator or similar capacity in the organization being set
up to administer control of the industries in defeated Axis countries.
I am particularly interested in a position involving control of the
aircraft, steel, and/or manufacturing industries of Japan. A
resume of my background is attached, and I should like to draw your
attention to the fact that I have had considerable production, en-
gineering, and administrative background in actual manufacturing and
production plants, which should be of value to any Bureau which in-
tends to administer and oversee the organization and re-location of
the industries in the defeated nations.
Will you please let me know what further information or
0B/LB
steps are required, in order that you may take some definite action
on this application.
Sincerely yours,
U.t. Barmard.
A. F. Barnard
894.60
AUG 271945
Tmit
8-1145

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
July 20, 1945
Resume of Experience - A. F. Barnard
1929-1932 - Lehigh University - Metallurgical Engineering Graduate
1935-1935 - Crucible Steel Co. of America - Spaulding & Jennings, and Atha Works
Employed as cold roller in the manufacture and cold rolling of
carbon and alloy strip steel, drill rod, spring steel, etc.
Metallurgical inspection and supervision of hot and cold rolled
carbon and alloy steel bars, rods, and forgings. One year in
charge of the night shift in the Finishing Mill, engaged in the
manufacture of the above products.
1935-1940 - Columbia Steel Co. - U. S. Steel Corp.
Open-hearth quality control. This included completion of a
quality control program which had already been underway, and also
included the establishment of a program in the company's plant at
Torrance, California. Transferred to the general office as Assis-
tant to the General Manager in charge of the Alloy and Stainless
Division. Handled all sales correspondence and mill contact work
with customers; cleared all orders for technical accuracy in the
mill, and handled and settled all claims resulting from customers'
complaints. Engaged in the sale and promotion of stainless and alloy
steels and handled introduction and promotion of low alloy, high
tensile steels in transportation and aircraft fields. Worked with
aircraft manufacturers to promote the use of alloy and stainless
steels in that industry.
1940-
- Chief Metallurgist with Vultee Field, during which time the writer
headed up the Metallurgical Group and Materials Group. This in-
couschidated-
volved investigation and development of all airoraft materials,
Vultee
including plastics, aluminum end magnesium alloys, together with
low alloy and stainless steels and their applications to airoraft
Aireraft.
use. Handled all shop and production problems involving the fabri-
cation of ferrous and non-ferrous metals. Transferred to the
Allentown Division to head up the Process Engineering Department.
Was placed in charge of the Chemical and Metallurgical Laboratory
and handled all chemical end metallurgioal welding and Matorials
Engineering work; set up and controlled shop processes and manu-
facturing methods, and handled investigations of production
problems as they arose.
Professional Activities
American Society for Metals
American Welding Society
Airframe Materials Committee of SAE - Was an active member of this committee
for the aircraft industry and the joint Army-Navy Aeronautical Board.
Sub-Committee on Welding of Armor

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Professional Activities (Continued)
Ferrous Metallurgy Advisory Board (NDRC) - This was a confidential committso
set up by the Army Air Forces to coordinate and aid in developing work
on weiding techniques of armor plate, with specific reference to its
application in airoraft.
Resistance Welding Standards Committee of the American Welding Society -
The writer was one of the founders of the above committee which had for
its purpose the standardisation of resistance welding (spot and flesh
welding) of non-ferrous alloys in airoraft.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
Angust 22, 194
In reply refer to
JA
My dear Mr. Barnard:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of August 1l,
894.60/8-1145
1945, in regard to the possibility of your employment in a
position in connection with controls to be exereised over
industry in Japan.
In view of the fact that Allied authority in the
early post-war period in Japan is to be exeroised through
military agenoies, it 1s suggested that you may wish to
direot your inquiry to the Civil Affairs Division of the
War Department.
S
/LE
Sincerely yours,
Erle R. Diekover
Chief
874.60
Division of Japanese Affairs
AUG
CR
18.1145
2342 Walnut Street,
Allentown, Pennsylvania.
JAiWTurher:mls
8-21-45

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
BY AIR POUCH
IIN OF COAL FOLIGY
SR
00T171945
COMMODITIES DIVISION
UNRESTRICTED
aix
OCT 25 1945
LIAISON OFFICE
No. 25549
/ copy cilastet wonh
0OT L41945
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/L
Subject: Japan's Industrial Futurd
8 AM 1 08
HV
HORVE
13W
S
DOI NISISN O
1100
DEPARMENT OF STATE
894.60/9-2045
3
DCT231945
The Honorable
Division of Foreign
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose for the Department's
information clippings of two articles entitled, "Japan's
Industrial Future", which appeared in the Manchester
Guardian on September 13 and 14, 1945. These articles
are the only ones which have appeared in the daily press
discussing the long-term inaustrial future of Japan and
its probable implications for Western trade.
The first article gives a brief survey of Japan's
trade before the war and points out how maintenance of
her standard of life depended on Japan's ability to in-
crease her exports of manufactured goods in order to
obtain essential raw materials. The second artiole
considers what the future must be when Japan has lost
her former overseas territories, from which she obtained
substantial quantities of foodstuffs and raw materials,
and has been compelled to alter radically her industrial
structure. The Guardian thinks it probable that Japan
will be forced to destroy a large part of her heavy
industries and perhaps be compelled to make reparations
in the form of new equipment to China. It is also
pointed out that Japan's depleted merchant marineill
60
no longer contribute to her invisible exports.
CS/VJ
The writer of the articles believes that the only
C
solution left to Japan by which she can maintain 
reasonable standard of living will be to concentrate
her resources

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
2 -
her resources on the consumption goods industries and
attempt to build up an export trade in consumers goods which
will enable her to buy the food and raw materials she needs.
It is recognized that textiles will play a leading part in
such trade, and the writer states:
"If this process of adjustment is carried
through--and the task will be an immense
one,--then certain Western industries may
after a few years suffer even more seriously
than they did before the war from Japanese
competition. This will be particularly true
of textiles, once the period of restocking is
over. Lancashire clearly cannot view this
prospect with equanimity."
The Guardian points out that if Japan is not permitted
to develop an export trade in consumers goods, the result
may well be a steep fall in her standard of life and perhaps
famine. The question is then asked as to why we should
allow Japan's troubles, which are of her own making, to
affect our economic policy, and the writer gives two reasons
why this should be done. He believes, first, that apart
from general principles of economic policy which the United
Nations may adopt, it is against our own interest that a
center of famine and despair should be allowed to appear in
the Far East, and, secondly, he points out that it oan be
of no benefit to the impoverished peoples of Asia if they
are deprived of access to cheap Japanese consumption goods.
The writer concludes:
"For many years to come the alternative to
supplies of such goods from Japan will not
be an equivalent quantity of British or
American goods, but a much lower level of
consumption among the native populations
than would otherwise exist. No doubt, in
the long run, Western countries themselves
would benefit from industrial expansion and
the rise of the standard of life in Asia;
but certain industries in those countries
maywell be damaged."
It is particularly interesting that these first serious
articles on the future of Japan should appear in a paper
from the center of the British cotton industry and should
advocate the necessity of the British industry resigning
itself to future Japanese competition in Asia on a large
scale.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
John M. Allison
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosures:
Manchester Guardian articles
entitled "Japan's Industrial
Future" (in quadruplioate)
1/ dated September 13, 1945
2/ dated September 14, 1945
1 copy of despatch and enclosures
to Division of Japanese Affairs
JMA/ejg

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch no. 25549
dated
20 September 1945
from American Embassy; London, England.
PAPER:
ILANCHESTER GUARDIAN
MU DER:
CITY:
LOIDON
DATD:
SEP 13 1945
JAPAN'S INDUSTRIAL FUTURE
developments in Japanese trade gave.
rise to serious problems among the
I—Her Reliance on Foreign Trade
old-established industries of Western
countries; but the exports played a
part in raising the standard of life
in Asia, and had the Japanese
By a Correspondent
economy not been distorted by
As a result of her defeat, Japan will
about 9.000.000 persons were engaged
preparation for war the development
presumably lose her colonies, includ-
in manufactures and mining, and the
would doubtless have been carried
ing Korea and Formosa, and she will
pace of industrialisation during the
previous decade had been very rapid.
even farther. In addition to these
growing exports of manufactured
cease to enjoy the privileges which
Japan had begun her industrial career
goods, Japan also derived an impor-
have hitherto been hers in Manchuria
by developing the textile industries,
tant income from the services pro-
and China. Her political control will
and in 1929 her economy was highly
vided by her shipping.
thus be confined to the main islands,
specialised in two branches of that
This brief account is sufficient to
known as Japan Proper. Within this
group—namely, cotton goods and raw
silk. During the next decade raw
bring out the supreme importance
for Japan of her foreign trade. In
comparatively small area (about one-
silk production declined; but, along
the next article an attempt will be
fifth larger than that of the British
with a continuous expansion in the
made to suggest what the future has
Isles), which is by no means rich in
cotton industry, there was a rapid
in store for her.
natural resources,nearly eighty
development of new textile trades,
million persons will have to maintain
notably rayon and woollen and
themselves in the next few years.
worsted. The industries that made the
This population, moreover, unless
most substantial advance, however,
held in check by famine and disease,
were the metal and engineering
is likely to grow fast (perhaps by a
trades. Their rise could be attributed
million a year) for some time to
partly to improvements in technical
come, because a high proportion of
methods and partly to rearmament
the population is at present within
and to heavy investment in building
the fertile age groups. In the next
up the industries of Manchuria. A
few months the United Nations will
number of other trades also expanded
have to decide on their economic
rapidly—namely, rubber. paper, glass.
policy towards Japan in the light of
pottery, hosiery. chemicals, and seve-
these and other relevant facts. and
ral miscellaneous consumption goods
in accordance with that policy Japan
industries. Thus. before the war the
will have to begin to effect far-reach-
Japanese economy was much less
ing adjustments in her economy.
specialised than it had been in 1929.
FOOD IMPORTS
raw materials for these industries
Apart from raw silk, most of the
To estimate the nature of these
came from abroad, including cotton,
adjustments it is necessary to glance
wool, and other textile materials,
at the outstanding features of the
pulp. iron ore, pig iron and scrap,
non-ferrous metals and ores, vege-
Japanese economic system. Before
table oils. hides and skins, and
the war with China, out of an occupied
rubber. Moreover, although Japan
population of some 34,000,000 about
had good supplies of water-power,
14,000,000 were engaged in agricul-
she was on balance an importer of
ture and about 600,000 in fishing.
coal, and she had to obtain the bulk
These two great industries provided
of her oil requirements from foreign
the
of
the
foodstuffs
countries. Thus, the employment of
which
people
consumed ;
her growing population and the
but it is wrong to imagine that
maintenance of her standard of life
Japan was self-sufficient in her
were bound up with this process of
food supply. She did not, it is true.
industrialisation, whichin turn
depend to any considerable extent on
depended on her securing access, on
imports from foreign countries; but
good terms, to foreign, and to a less
she derived large quantities of food
extent colonial, supplies of raw
from her Empire. During the thirties
materials.
imports of rice. the staple food.
EXPORT TRADE
amounted to over one-sixth of the
Up to 1929 Japan had paid for her
nation's consumption, and most of
them came from Korea and Formosa.
imports mainly by exporting raw
Other leading food imports consisted
silk to America and cotton textiles
of sugar from Formosa and beans from
and a few other manufactured con-
Manchuria. It will be difficult for
Japan to dispense with these imports
sumption goods to Eastern Asia, India.
without reducing her already low
and the South Seas. She had then
dietetic standard. The area of arable
a highly specialised export trade both
land is narrowly limited because of
in markets and commodities. After
the mountainous nature of the coun-
the American slump the steep and
try, and there is little or no fresh
land to be brought under cereals. The
permanent fall in raw silk exports
most intensive methods of cuftivation
led her to concentrate on exports of
are already employed. The typical
manufactured goods.. Exports of
farming family has a holding of under
cotton piece goods continued to grow.
two and a half acres, and it ekes out
Markets were found for other tex-
its livelihood by various subsidiary
tiles, especially woollen and worsted
employments, such as the rearing of
and rayon goods; and at the same
silkworms which provide the chief
time there was a great expansion of
industrial raw material produced in
exports other than textiles. The
Japan.
impoverished peoples of Asia and
For many years before the war the
the South Seas were coming to
number of persons occupied in agri-
depend increasingly on the cheap
culture had been stationary, and the
manufactured consumptiongoods
successive increases in population had
which Japan 'sent to them, while her
been absorbed mainly by manufac-
export of capital goods to Asia was
turing industry and commerce. In
also becoming significant.
These
1937. on the eve of the war with China,

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to Despatoh no. 25549: dated 20 September 1945
from American Embassy, London, England.
PAPER:
ILANCHHSTER GUL.RDLAN
 R:
CITY:
LOIDON
SEP 1+ 1945
DATD:
JAPAN'S INDUSTRIAL FUTURE
II—Must She Export More Textiles?
By a Correspondent
In the previous article it was shown
She will be faced, however, with a
that the maintenance of Japan's stan-
most serious obstacle in her efforts
dard of life before the war depended
to revert to her former structure. In
on her ability to increase her exports
1929 about two-fifths of her exports
consisted of raw silk, and this trade
of manufactured goods in order to
is unique in that it does not depend
obtain essential raw materials.
on imported raw materials. Silk ex-
What are her prospects for the next
ports.
however,
greatly
decade? The loss of Korea, Formosa,
diminished by 1937, and they are
and Manchuria (to say nothing of
hardly likely to regain their former
Southern Saghalien and the South
position in view of the probable
Sea mandated territories) will mean
competition of nylon.
Thus, if
that she will have to obtain essential
Japan is to obtain the necessary
foodstuffs from areas outside her own
quantities of foodstuffs and raw
political control and currency system.
materials she will have to sell abroad
This colonial trade, which was con-
much larger amounts of wholly manu-
ducted in circumstances very favour-
factured consumption goods than she
able to the home country, will now
did during the thirties. Those goods
become foreign trade. Even if she is
are most likely to consist of textiles
allowed to do business on equal terms
(cotton, rayon, staple fibre, and
with other nations in her former
woollens and worsted) and of miscel-
colonial territories, she will no longer
laneous goods such as rubber
be able to mould the economy of
manufactures, small metal goods.
those territories to her special advan-
pottery, hosiery, toys, and light
tage. The stimulus to export will thus
electrical apparatus. If this process
become even greater than before. It
of adjustment is carried through—
is probable, moreover, that Japan will
and the task will be an immense one,—
be forced to destroy a large part of
then certain Western industries may
her heavy industries, which, as we
after a few years suffer even more
have seen, were becoming increas-
seriously than they did before the
ingly important in the pre-war
war from Japanese competition. This
decade. No doubt policy in this field
will be particularly true of textiles.
will depend on how far Japan is to be
once the period of restocking is over.
compelled to make reparations in the
Lancashire clearly cannot view this
form of new equipment to China;
prospect with equanimity. Yet, if
but in any event these heavy indus-
Japan is unable or is not permitted
tries will presumably not be in a
to develop on these lines, it is difficult
position to provide commercial ex-
to see what alternative remains to her.
ports, and Japan may even become
and the result may well be a steep fall
again dependent on
imports of
in her standard of life and perhaps
finished
steeland
engineering
famine.
products, as she was before 1929. Her
EFFECT ON THE WEST
depleted mercantile marine will no
longer be able to contribute to her
It may legitimately be asked
invisible exports.
whether Japan, having brought this
A CHANGED ECONOMY
fate on herself, is to be permitted to
disturb the economies of the victor
What is likely to be the response
nations. Why should we allow her
of her economy to these new condi-
troubles, which are of her own
tions? She will doubtless attempt to
making, to influence our economic
reduce her food imports to the mini-
policy, especially as we shall be hard
mum by devoting more of her man-
put to it in finding solutions for our
power to agriculture and fishing than
she did before the war. But, as we
have seen, she already uses all her
own industrial difficulties? Further
reflection, however, may suggest that
the problem cannot be dismissed so
carries intensive cultivation very far.
available arable land, and she already
the general principles of economic
lightly. In the first place, apart from
In these circumstances the return
are committed, it is undoubtedly
policy to which the United Nations
from the application of additional
against our own interest that a centre
labour to farming would be small. In
of famine and despair should be
fishing her opportunities may be
allowed to appear in the Far East. In
reduced if, as is likely, Russia denies
the second place, it can hardly be to
her access to the fishing-grounds in
the benefit of the impoverished
the northern seas. It seems probable
peoples of Asia that they should be
then that the only solution left to
deprived of access to the cheap manu-
her will be that of retracing part of
factured consumption goods which
the course she has followed since 1929,
Japan can provide in return for their
of concentrating her resources to an
raw materials. For many years to
increasing extent on the consumption
come the alternative to supplies of
goods industries, and of attempting
such goods from Japan will not be an
to build up an export trade in those
equivalent quantity of British or
goods sufficient to enable her to buy
American goods, but a nuch lower
the raw materials and food she needs.
level of consumption among the
But to succced in that attempt she
native populations than would other-
would have to create an export of
wise exist. No doubt. in the long
these commodities far greater than
run. Western countries themselves
she had before the war, for her popu-
would benefit from industrial expan-
lation has grown and other sources of
sion and the rise of the standard of
foreign income will no longer be

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREION SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITIGAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 21, 1945
LD
NO. 118
DCIR
SUBJECT: Transmission of Sumrries of Industrial Inventories.
M
Aell
The Honorabl
The Secretary of State,
118
FEB141947
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's telegram
894.60/12-2145
no. 210, December 17, 1945, and to enclose summaries (in
single copy) of the first seven of twenty-three separate
inventories on Japanese industry prepared and completed
on December 1, 1945 by the Industrial and Remearoh Divi-
sions of the Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for
Ambassador Edwin W. Pauley, as released by the Public Re-
lations Office of SCAP on December 15, 1945. As stated
in the reference telegram, the summaries are doubtless
available to the Department in Washington, and are trans-
mitted purely as a matter of convenience.
Respectfully yours,
CS
n
DEVELUPMEH
George Atcheson,
Jr.JULY1 +1947
Enclagure:
Summaries of Industrial
FILED
Inventories, 1 - 7.
Original and ozalid to
Dopartment.
860.2
RAFearey:vs

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
Public Relations Office
19:30
FRESS RELEASE:
15 December 1945
SUMMARIES OF INDUSTRIAL INVENTORIES
The following are summaries of the first seven of twenty-three
separate inventories on Japanese industry prepared and completed on
Dec. 1 by the Industrial and Research Divisions of the Economic and
Scientific Section, SCAP, for Ambassador Edwin W. Pauley, chief of the
United States reparations mission in Japan.
Summaries of the remaining sixteen inventories will be released
as soen as thev are completed.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADÇUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFÍCE
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
NO. 1.
THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
(The following information for the press is from the inventory
of Japan's industry prepared by the Industrial and Research Divisions
of Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for Ambassador Edwin W.
Pauley, chief of the United States reparations mission in Japan. The
inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government and industry authorities and was completed on 1 December.)
The Japanese estimate that 157,0oo bales of raw silk will be
available for export by December, 1947. This includes 46,000 bales
now on hand, p1us 51,000 to be manufactured by June, 1946; 29,000
more by September, tnd 31,O0o more by December. This is the esti-
mated capacity from facilities now available and expected to become
available.
The Japanese plan to devote practically all the facilities of
their silk industry to raw silk suitable for export. Production of
silk short-cut fibre, for domestic use, will be stopped in order to
increase export silk output.
Now operable in Japan are 160 silk reeling factories with 28,300
basins with an annual production capacity of 97,000 bales of 132
pounds each. However, the Japanese plan to increase reeling facili-
ties by 26,000 more basins by January, 1947.
Current acreage for mulberry farms is estimated at between
416,000 and 440,000 but a detailed report is expected from the Jap-
anese in March. This compared with 1,306,000 acres in 1940.
The cocoon yield per mulberry acre is estimated at between 440
and 470 pounds so the total cocoon yield is expected to run between
207 million and 183 million pounds. Between 155 million and 177 mil-
lion pounds are "quality" cocoons, equivalent to between 164,000 and
187,O00 bales of exportable raw silk.
For silk weaving, 9,526 broad looms are existent of which 8,097
are operational and capable of turning out 3,497,000 pounds or
2,657,750 square meters of cloth annually. Also existent are 3,209
narrow looms of which 2,728 are operational and capable of 617,771
square meters annually.
Annual processing capacities for silk cloth include: Dip dyeing,
26,265,000 pounds or 146,208,500 square meters; printing, 1,989,000
pounds or 11,072,100 square meters; finishing, 9,261,000 pounds or
51,552,900 square meters.
The textile inventory was prepared under the direction of Maj.
Harold S. Tate, chief of the textile division, E. and S. S., and Lieut.
Frank J. Collins, chief of the raw silk section, textile division.
Major Tate is on military leave from his position as head of the tex-
tile industrial education department of Clemson College, South Caro-
lina. Lieutenant Collins formerly was director and general superin-
tendent of the Grove Silk Company, Scranton, Pa.
(more)

=== Page 60 === (confidence 1.00)
SILK STATISTICS.
Year
Mulberry
(Acres)
Farms
of Seri-
culturists
Number
Silkworm
(Kilograms)
Eggs
(Pounds)
Cocoons
Number
Mills
Number
Basins
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1945
1944
1,388,000
1,375,000
1,347,000
1,307,000
1,306,000
1,212,000
1,011,000
892,000
646,000
523,000*
1,856,000
1,819,000
1,696,000
1,651,000
1,645,000
1,592,000
1,526,000
1,300,000
1,000,000*
700,000*
213,891
235,501
210,898
195,640
185,300
194,859
140,965
128,911
99,226*
61,020*
685,286,000
710,750,000
622,153,000
750,814,000
723,763,000
577,452,000
446,729,000
333,801,000
461,732,000
186,210,000*
2,418
1,892
1,827
1,813
1,773
1,027
540
389
196
160
222,247
196,547
191,821
187,290
183,055
196,098
86,894
37,344
60,290
28,344
*Estimated.
All these figures are for the calendar years indicated.
SILK STAPLE FIBRE
RAW SILK
#
#
Value of
#
#
##
##
Produc-
Production Exports
Exports
Domestic No.
No. tion
Year
(Bales)
Bales
(Yen)
Use(Bales)Mills Basins(Pounds)
1936
705,458
505,300
393,518,000 200,158*
1937
731,193
472,736
379,479,000 293,042
1938
698,096
436,221
379,954,000 347,043
1939
737,552
335,826
533,657,000 405,991
1940
1941
1942
1943
717,901
536,226
473,475
265,365
313,748
20,439
10,888
7,780
450,458,000364,795
32,377,000462,458
19,574,000 436,238
14,769,000 255,642
140;000*
23
60
87
56
3,436
3,529
5,333
253
16,615,000
19,389,000
23,059,000
2,017,000
1944
142,722
79
4,673
8,267,000*
1945
100,000*
*Estimated.
#Silk year, May to April.
##Calendar year.
COTTON AND COTTON STAPLE FIBER.
In existence at present are 2,712,694 spindles of which 2,577,059
are operational. Those operational include 2,190,219 cotton spindies,
capable of 490,629,000 pounds of cotton yarn, end 386,840 staple fib-
er yarn, annually.
There are 102,380 cotton looms existent. Operational are 66,929
broad 1ooms, capable of producing 310,550,560 pounds or 1,038,481,072
square meters of cotton cloth annually, and 12,371 narrow looms, cap-
able of producing 34,440,864 pounds or 115,170,249 square meters.
Of staple fiber looms, there are 31,540 existent. of these,
20.019 broad looms are operationa1, capable of 38,436,480 pounds or
128,531,589 square meters of cloth annually, and 3,701 narrow looms,
capable of 4,263,552 pounds of 14,257,318 square meters annually.
Finishing and dyeing plant capacities annually for cotton and
staple fiber cloth are: Bleaching, 73,548,000 pounds or 236,579,400
square meters; dip dyeing, 113,270,400 pounds or 364,353,120 square
meters; printing, 15,300,000 pounds or 49,215,000 square meters; fin-
ishing, 13,536,000 pounds or 43,540,800 square meters; total,
215,654,400 pounds or 693,688,320 square meters.
RAYON AND ARTIFICIAL SILK
Rayon production facilities are estimated as capable of produc-
-2-

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
ing 121,176,000 pounds of yarn annually. Rayon staple, 237,600,000
pounds annually. Spun silk spindles total 150,852 of which 135,766
are workable and capable of producing 5,430,640 pounds annually.
In artificial silk weaving, 75,352 broad looms are existent of
which 55,932 are workable and capeble of producing 67,118,400 pounds
or 311,727,680 square meters annually. Existent also are 36,221 nar-
row looms with 18,843 workable and capable of producing 15,828,120
pounds or 73,512,740 square meters.
Finishing and dyeing capacities for rayon cloth include: Dip
dyeing, 35,020,000 pounds or 146,208,500 square meters; printing
2,652,000 pounds or 11,072,100 square meters; finishing, 12,348,000
pounds or 51,552,900 square meters; tota1, 50,020,000 pounds or
208,833,500 square meters.
WORSTED AND WOOL
Existent are 397,724 worsted and 425 woolen spindles. The
worsted spindles include 351,951 workable with annual capacity of
28,636,080 pounds of yarn and the woolen spindles include 382.5 work-
abíe, capabie of 29,230,650 pounds of yarn annually.
There are a total of 10,400 worsted and woolen looms existent.
They include 5,658 worsted and 3,182 woolen looms workable with an-
nual capacities of 23,763,600 pounds (39,732,739 square meters) of
worsted and 38,184,000 pounds (33,251,900 square meters) of wool..
FLAX AND CHINA GRASS
Existent are 50,610 flax spindles, with 43,018 workable and
capable of 17,637,380 pounds of yarn annually, and 67,544 China grass
spindles, with 57,412 workable and capable of 20,668,320 pounds of
yarn a year.
In existence are 14,602 1ooms for flax and China grass, 11,682
of them workable and capable of producing 51,400,000 pounds or
136,416,090 square meters of cloth.
-0-

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFÍCE
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
NO. 2.
THE SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY
(The following information for the press is from the inventory
of Japan's industry prepared by the Industrial and Research Divisions
of Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for Ambassador Edwin W.
Pauley, chief of the United States reparations mission in Japan. The
inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government authorities and industrial leaders and was completed on
1 December.)
Japan's shipbuilding industry currently has sufficient ways to
accommodate simultaneous construction of 176 steel ships of varying
sizes and 2,O0o small wooden coastal and fishing vessels, but is
unable to use all of them due to labor and material shortages.
In the steel ship category, the inventory showed the Japanese
industry had three yards with a total of five ways capable of build-
ing vessels of over 20,000 tons, and seven yards with 15 ways for
10,000-20,000 ton ships.
Other steel ship facilities include 48 ways in 17 yards for
5,000-10,000 ton ships, 80 ways at 34 yards for 1,000-5,000 tonners,
and 28 ways at 18 yards for vessels under 1,000 tons.
Many of the steel ship yards contain ways for vessels of more
than one weight category. The total number of yards listed was 64.
For wooden vessels, the inventory listed 548 yards at which
2,000 ships totaling 20ó,000 gross tons could be constructed over a
period of four months if sufficient machine shops, saws, wood cut-
ters and labor were available,
However, with the facilities available, only 7oo ships totaling
70,o0o gross tons currently can be constructed simultaneously.
The inventory also listed 63 drydocks available for repair of
vessels from 300 up to 20,000 gross tons or rore, with nine being
the largest number available in any one category. Four floating
drydocks also were listed.
The shipbuilding industry inventory was supervised by Capt.
Morris N. Lipp, chief of the shipbuilding branch, industrial division,
E. and S. S., SCAP. Captain Lipp is on military leave from his civ-
ilian position of city engineer at Miami, Fla.
-0-

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
NO. 3.
TELEPHONE AND RADIO EQUIPMENT INDUSTRY
(The following information for the press is from the inventory
of Japan's industry prepared by the Industrial and Research Divisions
of Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for Ambassador Edwin W.
Pauley, chief of the United States reparations mission in Japan. The
inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government authorities and industrial leaders and was completed on
i December.)
TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT
Twenty-two factories operated by 15 companies currently are in
existence for the manufacture of telephone apparatus, central sta-
tion equipment and telephone plant equipment other than wire and
cable. However, the machinery and labor of many of the factories
are dispersed at present. The industry considered it probabl that
when existing machinery is again installed and manned with adequate
labor, present production capacities could be doubled.
The monthly schedule of estimated production includes: 53,500
telephones, 2,406 telegraph sets, 45,580 manual switchboard lines,
18,000 switch gear lines, 75 repeaters and 5 sets of carrier equip-
ment.
In its peak condition prior to the start of its destruction
during the war, the Japanese telephone system had local plants,
covering the 9 largest cities and the 55 prefectures in the Japan-
ese homeland, that included approximately 1,600,000 subscribers and
7,366 exchanges of a11 types.
The estimated overall war damage to the system was estimated
at 25 per cent, mostly in terminal equipment, central office equip-
ment and telephone instruments in cities. Additional depreciation
was estimated at another 25 per cent due to wear and tear and to
poor naintenance.
The Japanese estimated that 47 per cent of the telephones in
the system was destroyed or damaged by the war. Compared with a
peak of 1,592,157 telephones before war damages, there were 840,245
operating on i September, a decrease of 748,865.
Tokyo, with 46 exchanges and 199,962 telephones at its peak,
suffered 157,430 (79%) damaged or destroyed with only 42,532 operat-
ing on 1 September. Seven exchanges have been discontinued due to
damages. Twenty-eight exchanges had 80 per cent or more of their
telephones destroyed or damaged.
Osaka, whose telephone system was about the hardest hit in the
nation, had 103,229 (90 per cent) of its peak 115,630 telephones
destroyed or damaged and had only 12,40l operating on 1 September.
Five of its 24 exchanges have been discontinued. Nineteen suffered
over 80 per cent loss of their telephones, 14 of these over 90 per
-1-

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
cent.
Kyoto, one of the most lightly hit cities, suffered loss of
only 30 out of its 30,118 telephones. The inventory noted the com-
plete wiping out of 9,700 telephones at Hiroshima and 4,905 at
Nagasaki.
RADIO EQUIPMENT
Receiving Sets: Twenty-seven companies operating 35 plants are
capable of assembling 378,000 receiving sets per month if all com-
ponents, including tubes, were available. Lack of tube production
is the critical bottleneck. Some of the larger companies are cap-
able of producing complete sets but the smaller ones can turn out
only the chassis or cabinet or can run a part of the production line
for parts. It is estimated the assembly capacity could be increased
about 300 per cent in six to twelve months' time with sufficient
labor, material, components and tubes. Present production is about
50,00ó sets a month.
Tubes: Ten major tube producing companies operating 19 plants
have a production capacity of 890,000 receiving set tubes and 17,000
transmitting set tubes per month. Present output, however, is only
ten per cent of capacity due to shortages of labor and material.
It is estimated the capacity could be tripted if the plants were
rehabilitated, dispersed machinery were re-installed and sufficient
labor were available.
Radio set components: Twenty companies, operating 31 plants for
production of such components as condensers, etc., could probably
increase their capacity by 40 per cent when in full production with
adequate labor and fuel.
The average Japanese receiving set for civilian use was said
to be cheaply constructed and insensitive compared with the average
set in the United States. All have standard broadcast bands and
are unable to pick up foreign short-wave stations.
The inventory said: "An extremely small number of clandestine
short wave receivers were found in the hands of daring Japanese who
faced a severe penalty if caught, but the total quantity was insig-
nificant."
In the early stages of the war, there were about 7,500,000
broadcast receivers in Japan, or one for each two homes. About
1,600,000 were destroyed in air raids. Of the remainder, about
3,000,000 are still in operating condition.
No plants currently are making exclusively military or naval
type electronic equipment such as radar or aviation radio equipment.
Machinery or productive capacity in these has either been or is be-
ing destroyed with 90 per cent destruction estimated by 31 December.
All production of civilian type radios was stopped by the end
of 1944 so that no plants have been found making combinational mili-
tary and civilian radios. Production of radios now being encouraged
by occupation forces are all of civilian type, both short- and long-
wave.
Civilian home receiver sales: 1935, 654,617; 1936, 756,882;
1937, 1,018,037; 1938, 938,437; 1939, 1,163,899; 1940, 1,371,681;
1941, 1,413,157; 1942,1,116,343; 1943,829,753; 1944, 757, 189.
-0-

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADCUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
NO. 4.
ALUMINUM AND LAGNESIUN
(The foilowin ini iwation for tne press is from the inventory
of Japan's industay pre rrea by the Industrirl cnl Research Divisions
of Econe ic and Seient Tic Seetion, ScAP, for Ambassado  Edvin W.
Pauley, chief of the United States reparations mission in Japan.
The inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government cuthorities and industrial leaders and was completed on
1 December.)
Ten plants for the venufacture of alumina, the alurinum oxide
produced from bauxite or ctner raw  atericl, and eight plants for
the manufacture of cluninum metal by electrolytic reduction of the
alumina, were reported in Japan proper at the end of the war. In
addition three alunina factories and five aluninun plants were re-
ported in Formosa ond Korea with five more under construction in
Korea, Manehuria and North China.
The ten aluminc plants in Japen had a reported annual capacity
of 357,100 tons. Most of it came fron six plants producing 325,000
tons from Bauxite and using the Bayer process. Three plants had a
capacity of i4,1oo tons, produced icom clay with acid and sulphur
dioxide processing. The tenth feetory was capable of turning out
18,oo0 tons from bauxite shale with the fusion process.
The exact extent of war Camage to the facilities of these plants
was not indicated although damage to five of them, with a production
capacity totaling 232,0oo tons annually, was mentioned. It was be-
lieved that with sufficient raw naterini--mainly bauxite--plus the
necessary labor and rehabilitation of machinery, production capabil-
ities are about 250,000 tons of alur ina per year, produced in six
plants.
Eight alun inum metal reduction plants with an annual produetion
capacity of 134,20 tons were in existonce in Japen at the end of
the war. Sore war darare, its exaet extent not reported, was re-
ported to three of the plants having a total production capacity
of 58,oo0 tons  yerr. It is believed that with the necessary mat-
erials and labor, the industry is car ple of about 100,000 tons a
year.
Aluminum metal production in ponere plants hit its peak in
1943 with 141,084 metric tons. tu: vi1 off to 110,343 tons in 1944
and to only 6,647 tons in 1945. Tne decline in monthly production
figures vwas shown from the peak of 15,030 tons in March, 1944, to
10,094 in September, 1944; 7,010 tons, in November; 4,363 tons, in
January, 1945; 2,829 tons, in April, and 1,538 tons, in May, the
last reported month.
Most of the large plants, bec use of Japan's inability to import
bauxite, ran completely out of that material in 1944. Bauxite stocks
on hand as of 31 August 1945 were reported at absolute zero. The
greater part of good-grade bauxite formerly was irported from Bintan
Island, in the Dutch Bast Indies, but Allied strikes on Japanese
ship ing began outting imports in 1942 and 1943 and obliterated them

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
completely after the Allied invasion of Leyte in October, 1944.
Annual aluminum production by years (metric tons): 1935, 3,211;
1936, 5,802; 1937, 14,434; 1938, 22,367; 1939, 29,559; 1940, 40,863;
1941, 71,747; 1942,103,075; 1943, 141,084; 1944, 110,343; 1945,
6,647.
Aluminum stocks on hand on 31 August 1945 included 3,277 tons.
of ingoted metal, 4,659 tons of alumina, 35,705 tons of bauxite shale
--and no bauxite.
Korean plants include two alumina factories producing 15,400
tons annually and three alurinur reduction plants of 29,500 tons of
metal annually. One aluri plant (capaciy 1.o0o tons) and two
aluminum reduction placity 24 r metal) were 1o
cated in Formosa. latter .  ie of turning out
9,ooo tons, was repo"d as :inrestorauly destroyed."
The 18 alumina and aluminum metal plants in Japan were operated
by 12 companies with a tota1 capitalization of 1,877,022,580 yen.
MAGIESIUM
Magnesium metal stocks on hand in Japan on 31 August 1945 were
41 metric tons, plus 3.215 ci  gnesia, 5,396 tons of magnesite and
1,496 tons of magnesiu. ch! s.
Prcanction of 1a Leedars mearacaun metal plcats in Japan and
abread bit ts pook tn 19y vith 4,42 rons but droppes to 873 tons
during the parslor of Jsas tio neustry eperatsd. At the end of the
war, there vere six lar e sc: le prod acers cepaple under normal con-
ditlont of vurnina ous  vso tons in Japan proper, wich another six
plants in Korea able to proauce 7,700 tons a year.
The inventory stated the: there was no eviderce that Japanese
plents had been using cea wwer to preduce magrasiun.
Preduetien for thy lest tan ys sf the 12 leading plants (in
metric t01s): 1926, 665: 1937, 85. 933. 1 192; 1939, 1,755; 1940,
2,921; 1941, 2,497; 1942, 3, 1943, 3,689; 1944, 4,471; 1945, 873.
NON-FTRFOUS METAL GOODS
The inventory shoaed the following Japenese plants:
Copper goods: 39 factories (sheet, wire, rods, castings, wire
and cable, etc.).
Aluminum goods: 4l factories (sheet, wire, tubes, foil, pots
and pans, erc.).
Brass gcods: ll factories (reds, vire. sheet, ete.).
Magnesium goods: 3 fectcries (irgings).
Lead goods: 4 factories (pe and sheet).
Tin goods: 1 factory (vinin))
-0-

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARY FORCES, PACIFIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE
?
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
NO. 5.
ELECTRIC POWER
The following information for the press is from the inventory
of Japan's industry prepared by the Industrial and Research Divisions
of Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for Ambassador Edwin W.
Pauley, chief of the Unitei States reparations mission in Japan. The
inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government and industry authorities and was completed on 1 Decemberr)
As of 20 November 1945, there were in Japan 1,898 hydroelectric,
thermal and steam generating plants or stations for electricity with
a maximum generating capacity of 13,465,488 kilowatts.
Hydroelectric: Hydroelectric plants totaled 1,550 including
1,479 public utility plants and 71 privately owned. The public
utility plants (which include electric supply companies, electric
railway companies and government railway plants) totaled 1,479 of
which 38 are still under construction and 3 are being enlarged. Pri-
vate plants totaled 71 of which 2 are still under construction.
Public and private hydroelectric plants can generate a capacity
of 6,665,071 kilowatts, of which the public utility plants generate
6,400,536.
Of the tota1 of 1,550 plants, 19 have a capacity of 50.000
kilowatts or more; 301 have cap: cities ranging from 5,000 to 49,999,
and 1,230 are under 5,000 kilowatts.
Thermal: There are 298 thermal plants with a total generating
capacity of 4,1l4,367 kilowatts, of which 20 large public utility
installations alone generate 2,220,500 kilowatts. Public plants
number 123, with a generating capacity of 3,019,277 kilowatts, and
private plants tota1 178 with a generating capacity of 1,095,090
kilowatts. Of the 298 total, 21 have a capacity of 50,000 kilowatts
and over, 110 have capacities of between 5,000 and 49,999 kilowatts,
and 167are under 5,000.
Steam: The inventory showed 50 steam electric plants, including
44 owned by the Japan Electric Generating and Transmission Company.
The 50 plants' generating capecity is 2,686,050 kilowatts.
-0-
4.117
2.6

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
Public Relations Office
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
NO. 6
(The following information for the press is from the inventory
of Japan's industry prepared by the Industrial and Research Division
of Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for Ambassador Edwin W.
Pauley, chief of the United States reparations mission in Japan. The
inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government and industry authorities and was completed on 1 December.)
IRON AND STEEL
The inventory showed that there currently are eight companies
operating ten pig iron plants in Japan, and 422 companies operating
623 steel plants as follows: Rolled steel, 38 companies, 45 plants;
special steel, 74 companies, 134 plants; forged steel, 6ó companies,
108 plants; cast steel, 200 companies, 256 plants, and ferro-alloy,
50 companies, 80 plants.
Pig Iron
The inventory listed 37 blast furnaces for pig iron with an
annual capacity in 1944 (at 100 per cent operation) of 6,554,000 tons
production, which had dropped to 5,613,000 tons by the end of the
war.
Special irons production capacity was listed as 284,640 metric
tons of sponge iron, 200,000 metric tons of electric pig iron and
30,000 metric tons of charcoal pig iron. Sponge iron production, 1941,
was 99,907 metric tons; 1942, 112,791; 1943, 158,128; 1944, 150,723.
Japan's peacetime annual pig-iron requirements were listed as
2,600,000 metric tons, with the likelihood this could be reduced to
2,200,000 tons if the amount of ingot steel required for finished
steel could be lowered. On the basis of 2,600,000 metric tons, how-
ever, the following materials would be required: Iron ore, 5,óoo,000
metric tons (2,000,000 domestic, 3,000,000 imported); coking coal,
6,160,000 metric tons (3,9-0.000 domestic, 2,220,000 imported); man-
ganese ore, 46,000 me tric tcns (domestic); 1imestone, 1,693,00ó metric
tons (domestic). The requirement of 2,2oó,o0o metric tons of pig iron
would include 1,700,000 basic and 500,ó00 foundry pig iron. Average
Japanese consumption of pig iron in the period 1926--1930 wa 1,624,000
metric tons, including 1,146,200 basic and 478,000 for foundries.
Japanese pig iron production rose steadily fron 1,Olo,000 metric
tons in 1932 and had increased fourfold to 4,311,000 tons annually
through 1941. Annual production other years: 1935, 1,906,000; 1937,
2,308,000;1939,3,178,000;1940,3,569,000;
During the four years 1935-1938 inclusive, Japanese imports of
pig iron were over the 1,C00,000 metric ton mark, bolstered from
sources listed as "others" besides Manchuria, India, Korea and For-
mosa, Imports from the "other" sources rose from a negligible 2,817
metric tons in 1934 to 240,614 in 1935, 325,421 in 1936, 498,679 in
1937 end 320,401 in 1938, before slumping again to 55,765 in 1939 and
1,750 in 1940.
Over the eight-year period 1934-1941 inclusive, impbrts from Man-
churia averaged 353,000 metric tons; fron India, 271,000, and from
Formosa and Korea, 161,000.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
6e21
Japan's ingot steel production capacity at the end of the var
was estimated at 11,194,000 me+ric tons annually, including.8,304,
000 metric tons of open hearth and 2,890,000 metric tons of elec-
tric furnace steel.This was down approximately 2,Oc0,C0o from
the estimated 1944 capacity of 13,221,000 metric tons, which in-
cluded 9,913,000 of open hearth and 3,308,00 of electric furnace
steel.
Actual production, however, was w ll below the indicated
capacities, due mainly to shortages of some materials, to loss of
sRilied aabor; and disruptions of transportation that interfered
with the supply of materiels. Average production of ingot steel
during +he five years 1940-1944 was ?pproximately 7,176,000 metric
tons a year, ncluding 5,400,00 of open hearth and 1,776,000 of
electric furnace.
From 1932, vhen ingoted steel production in Japanese mills was
2,l12,598 metric tons, the production figure rose stendily to
3,3 2,657 in 1934; to 5,080,00c in 1937, to 5,488,535 in 1938,
and then dropped slight1y to 5,C46,447 mctric tons in 1941. Steel
imports (not including small emounts from Korea an" :ormosa) rose
from 229,634-metric tons in1932 to a pek of 722,4C02 metric +ons
in 1937, dropping off to 214,711 in 1940 nd only 57,879 in 1941.
Open hearth furnace facilities in Japan included l95 furnaces
with a capacity at the end of the war of 7, 458,300 metric tons
annually, plus scattered small furnaces vith an additional annual
capacity of 845,700 metric tons. Electric furnace facilities
included 762 Heroult electric fur naces, with a total charging
capacity of 3,330 metric tons, and 119 high frequency induction
furnaces, vith a total charging capacity of 95,145 metric tons.
There is only one large Bessemer steel plant in Japan, and i's
annuel production capucity is estimated at 5oc,occ metric tons.
Actuel prcduc-ion in 1944 was 193,C00 m:tric tons of Bessemer steel,
compared vith 352,000 in 1942 and ?33.(c0 in 1941.
Japan's rolling mills production capacity was estimated at
7,222,oco metric tons annually at the end of the wa2, compared with
8,567,000 metrie o in 1944.
Total estamat mace of ingot steI  viped by vapan n
peacetime no is t 3, 100, o0o ons a year. This
would provide Boo,Ceo metric tons for cor p puetlon urposes
(buildings, bridges, etc.), 500, 000 for minery, 40c,0c0 for
shipbuilding, 3c.c0 for railrords, 150  for the electricity
industry, 15ć,oo for conl and other mines, loo, cc0 for cil, gas
and water mupply equipment and machinery, end 4oo,oco for misc-
ellaneous pur cses tnelusing the cenned goe s, cnemical, cement
and aluminum inivvtries.
The 3,loo, Cec metric tons of ingot steel wo ld be designed to
produce 2,2lć,co0 metric tons of finished steel and vould require
2,600, 000 metric tons of pig iron production, a cording to Japanese
estimates.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
However, the inventory pointed out that Japan's production figures
for 1927-1930 showed 2,210,000 metric tons of finished steel could
be produced from only 2,652,000 metric tons of ingot steel, which in
turn would require only 2,2ó0,000 metric tons of pig iron.
On the basis of a production of 3,100,000 metric tons of ingot
steel, however, the following raw materials would be required: iron
ore, 576,00o metric tons (which would have to be imported); coal,
1,250,000 metric tons (domestic): manganese ore, 100,000 metric tons
(60,000 domestic, 40,000 imported); scrap, 720,000 metric tons (dom-
estic), and smaller quanties of limestone, flourspar, magnesium clin-
ker and dolomite, all available in Japan.
Special steel production, most of it from the electric furnace
process, increased fron 18,000 metric tons in 1930, to 69,000 in 1935,
362,000 in 1940, and 950,000 in 1944. Its capacity in 1944 was est-
imated at 1,386,000 metric tons at 100 per cent operation. A large
proportion of the special steel went into aircraft and war equipment
--of its 1944 production, 600,000 metric tons were planned for use in
circraft, 280,000 for other army and navy equipment, and 70,000 for
other general purposes. The grent expansion of production in special
steel was believed intended primarily for war purposes, and future
peacetime needs of the Japanese for it were believed by Allied auth-
orities to be of a minor nature.
Japan:s special steel stocks on hand at the end of the war in-
dicated there would be sufficient to meet Japan's reeds for a number
of years, exeept fer certain ones. Such stocks pprcxinated
750,000 metric tons, including semi-finished materiel. Of this
amount, 636,0oo mei i: tons was finished steel, about half of which
was reported suitable for peacetime consumer needs.
Compared with average Jepanese consumption of 16,360 metric tons
of special steel annually during the five years 1926-1930, the estim-
ated yearly tonnage requirements of the Japanese for special steel
(not inciuli carbon s eel manufactured in flat furnaces) in the
immediate  t war  are 65,000 metris sons. This includes 25,000
metric tons for cutomobiles and railroads, 29,Ooo for "civil welfare"
(public works), 5,C00 for shipbuilding and 2,000 for miscellaneous
purposes such as communications, provisions and bridgebuilding.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE
INDUSTRIAL INVENTORY
No. 7
COAL AND PETROLEUM
(The following inforration for the press is from the inventory
of Japan's industry prepared by the Industrial and Research Divisions
of Economic and Scientific Section, SCAP, for Arbassador Edwin W.
Pauley. chief of the United States reparations mission in Japan. The
inventory is based upon statistics and statements of the Japanese
government and industry authorities and was completed on 1 Decerber.)
COAL
One hundred and forty-three Japanese coal mines produced 49,335,
o00 metric tons of coal in 1944, accounting for 92 perccant of the
year's output, compared with their production of 57,309,000 metric
tons in 1940.
In Kyushu, the nation's greatest coal production center, 83 mines
turned out 27,531,000 tons in 1944 compared with 33,055,000 in 1940.
In Hokkaido's 34 mines, 14,409,000 tons were produced in 1944 compared
with 15,378,000 in 1940. Honshu mines (26) turned out 7,395,000 tons
in 1944, and 8,876,000 in 1940.
The estimated production of Japanese coal mines, with present
equipment, is estimated at 20,500,000 tons from 1 April 1945 to 31
March 1946, and 22,000,000 tons from 1 April 1946 to 31 March 1947.
Production goal is 40,Ó00,000 by 1949. Difficulties today are lack of
raw materials and the lack of labor due to repatriation of Korean min-
ers with subsequent difficulty of obtrining Japanesc replacements.
Stockpiles that existed in June, 1945, are rapidly being deplet-
ed. Despite the indicated ccpacities of production, actual production
at present is estinated at only one-fifth of that required for Japan's
normal peacetime minimum needs. However, it is believed that the in-
dustry has the potential to produce 25,0ó0,000 tons annually above
the pre-war level of domestic requirements.
Average coal consumption in Japan for the five years 1926-1930
was 33,481,000 metric tons a year, including 4,816,000 for domestic
heating, 4,392,000 for metallurgy 5,734,000 for power generating,
816,000 for chemicals, 5,291,000 for shipping and 12,436,000 for oth-
ers. Coke consumption increased from 1,000,000 metric tons in 1926
to 1,500,000 in 1930, with consumption for metallurgical plants rising
from 881,150 to 1,305,060 over the same period.
During the five years 1940-1944, Japan's coal production declined
from 57,309,000 metric tons in 1940 to 55,602,000 in 1941, 54,179,000
in 1942, 55,539,000 in 1943 and 49,335,000 in 1944. Imports 1ikewise
dropped, from 10,123,000 in 1940 to 9,807,000 in 1941, 8,844,000 in
1942, 6,117,000 in 1943, and 3,324,000 in 1944. Consumption figures
likewise dropped; 1940, 65,653,000 metric tons; 1941, 62,106,000 1942,
61,594,000;1943, 59,899,000; 1944, 51,730,000.
Quarterly coal production for 1945 was 10,980,000 metric tons
through 30 June, 5,315,000 through 30 September. It was estimated
-1-

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
that approximately 1,900,000 metric tons would be produged in the
quarter ending 31 December. Stocks on hand reported on 30 June wer
3,899,000 metric tons.
The original bock cost of Japar's coal mining industry was estim
ated at 977,981,000vyen. Minus depr:ciation estimated at 42,791,00
yen and war damage estimated at 21,7 7,000 yen, the present worth op
the industry 1s approxima ely 913,473,000 yen.
The industry employec approxima ely 300,000 persons at capacity
operation.
The coal carbonization industry has a current put-through capao-
ity of 9,252,670 metric tons of coal per year, compared with 11,871,
650 before war damage, Its facilities include 8ll benches including
714 in horizontal reterty with current capacity of 1,045,680 metric
tons a year, compared with 1,344,050 before war damages; 23 in vertic-
al retorts with a current capacity of 189,l40 metric tons compared
with 243,300 before wa.? danages; and 74 in coke ovens with a capacity
of 8,017,850 metric tors conparec with 10,824,300 before damages,
There are 16 lov tempereture carbonizaticn plants capable of process-
ing 730,000 metric tons a year.
City gas plants account for 77c of the 81l benches, including al1
the 714 herizontal retcrts, all the 23 vertical retorts and 33 of the
coke cvens. Their tote1 prccessing capacity before war damage was
3,858,650 metric tons cf coal a year, compared with 2,828,670 now.
Steel plants accciunted for 24 of the coke oven benches with a
processing capacity betore damages of 6,200,000 metric tons annually,
now 4,668,000, and other industrial plants accounted for the remein-
ing 17 coke ovens (before war damage capacity, 1,813,000 metrio tons;
afterwards, 1,756,000).
PETROLEUM
Annual production of crude petroleum in Japan proper rose from
225,726 kiloliters (one kiloliter equals 264 gallons) in 1933 to a
peak cf 392,643 in 1937 and dropped steadily thereafter to 262,713
in 1943 before rising slightly again to 269,159 in 1944.
The production inerease through the peak was due to an extensive
drilling campaign encouraged by a footage subsidy given by the Jap-
anese government. The downward trend through 1941 was attributed to
overdrilling, and the continued drop through 1944 to the government
policy of shipping dri'lling equipment and personnel out of Japan to
rehabilitate the captured oil fields of the Dutch East Indies.
Two-thirds of Japn's production in the three-year period 1942-
1944 came from the Akisa district, the output of which averaged
176,452 kiloliter annually of the total average annual production of
265,236. The Niigata listrict turned out 25 per cent or an average
of 67,587 for the threu years; Yamagata, 5 per cent or 13,497 kilo1-
iters average annually, and Hokkaido, 3 percent or 7,760 kiloliters.
Seven oil fields were listed in the Niigata district, the largest
producing 24,653 kiloliters in 1944; eleven in the Akita distriet, the
largest turning cut 67,332 kiloliters in 1944, and two each in the
Yanagata and Hokkaido districts.
No estimates were available on crude petroleum reserves in Japan.
