894.20256E Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Java And Madura Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda. (File 1509)
ID: 894.20256E-1509   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20256e-military-affairs-army-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY,
The Hague, Netherlands, March 14, 1946.

VIA AIR POUCH UNRESTRICTED

No. 707

Subject: Transmitting Article Entitled "Japanese Secret Activity".

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.

Sir:

As of possible interest to the Department, I have the honor to transmit herewith an article entitled "Japanese Secret Activity" datelined Batavia, March 5, which recently appeared in the "Anep-Aneta Bulletin" of the Netherlands News Agency. The attention of the Department is invited to the reported boast of an officer of the Japanese Political Police that "Japan has been militarily defeated but is politically victorious" which appears in the last paragraph of the article.

Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:

J. Webb Benton
Counselor of Embassy

Enclosure:
1/ Article entitled "Japanese Secret Activity".

To the Department in original and hectograph.
DCR NE Unit
800
GWRenchard:mpm
B.R.T.

Confidential File
CS/VJ
894.20256E/3-1446
894.20256E/3-1446
56E/3-1446

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 707 from The Hague, dated March 14, 1946.

(COPY)
JAPANESE SECRET ACTIVITY

Batavia, March 5th

The Japanese are still very active throughout Java. A report from an AMETA correspondent, based on authentic information, reveals this.

The Japanese started their underground work, he says in his report, the very moment of their capitulation. Hitoshi Shimizu, who during the occupation had been chiefly responsible for propaganda, then started the secret organisation of the Black Fan, which aimed at creating chaotic conditions by means of terrorist activity.

The Japanese took care to provide the Indonesians with arms and ammunition, for instance, by distributing them from police stations.

Other methods came to light in the report which Colonel Huyer sent from Surabaya before serious fighting started in that town in October, 1945. In this report Colonel Huyer declared himself convinced that Japanese senior officers in Surabaya had received orders from Japanese H.Q. not to oppose the Indonesians. They were, Colonel Huyer said, freely handing over their armament to the Indonesians.

What happened in Surabaya happened at innumerable other places. The Indonesians thus very easily gained possession of Japanese arms all over Java.

This was part of the plan, designed to make the Indonesians go into action. For this purpose a mysterious Japanese body, the Day Sang Ka, with sections all over the country, set to work. To the headquarters of this organisation, in Batavia, was attached a college, where young Indonesians were trained for Day Sang Ka activities, including intelligence, and propaganda work based on the results of this intelligence. Every section of Day Sang Ka became a secret source of anti-European outpourings, which inspired anti-European agitation. This manifested itself strongest where a Day Sang Ka-section had been active; and whenever or wherever terrorism flared up, the Day Sang Ka "graduates" were behind it.

Leaders of the movement were Saito, Secretary of Vice-Admiral Maeda; Yoshizumi, a journalist who was evicted from the N.E.I. before the war; and Nishizima, who lived for many years in West Java, especially in Bantam, and who spoke Sundanese perfectly. Saito was at one time reported killed in a fight near Semarang, but his death was not confirmed; the whereabouts of the others are unknown.

At present the Japanese are everywhere found to be collaborating, even openly, with the Indonesians. That happens, for instance, in the Bandung area, in Maland (East Java) where they act as instructors at an air-training centre and advise the Indonesians on the fortification and defence of the Malang area, and at Jogjakarta, where Japanese officers act as military advisers and instructors.

Japanese

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2 to enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 707 from The Hague, dated March 14, 1946.

Japanese seem to have joined the military police (Polisi Tantara); and the T.R.I. of Tjikampek (between Batavia and Bandung) appears to be under Japanese command.

Japanese soldiers as well as Japanese secret agents are undoubtedly striving to make good the boast of an officer of the Japanese political police, made to prominent Indonesians after the capitulation: "Japan has been militarily defeated, but is politically victorious."
