894.20 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., April 5, 1945 - December 23, 1949 (File 1825)
ID: 894.20-1825   Pages: 68   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20-military-affairs-army-12
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH SECTION
JA
DMH-420
PLAIN
ES
Bern
HL
DstR
Dated April 5, 1945
Rec!d 3:52 p.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
fili
1979, Fifth
894.20/4-545
German press April 3rd announcels Commander in Chief
Japanese Army Airforce Iwojo appointed Chief of General
Staff Lieutenant General Yasuda of General Staff ap-
pointed Commander Army Airforce.
HARRISON
MRM
A
DER EUR Ut
nal
i.
MAY 4 - 1945
Dr.st.
FILED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
28511
OF
DIVISION OF
DC
STATE
TELEGRAM
CENTRAL SERVICES
TELEGRAPH SECTION
MES-855
PLAIN
04大
Bern
Hj
Dated April 12, 1945
Rec d. 1:28 pom.
Sccretary of State,
Vashington.
894.20/4-1245
2142, Twelfth
Gorman pross publishes Tokyo dospatch April 9
stating conncction Cabinet change Japanese Army roorganized
including establishment supreme commands for homo dofonse
forces Field Marshals Sugiyama and Hata appointed supremo
conmanders home defonse army General Shono Kawabo
supreme conmander home dofonse Air Forco Field Marshall
Torauchi appointed supremo mnmander southorn territories
Tile
General Okamura supreme corunander China and General
Yamada suprome commandor Kwantung Army Licutonant
n.#.
General Mamoru Hare appointed Connander in Chiof armored
we
Chief military district central Japan and Licutonant
Cab)
General Yoshio Kamizuki Connaandor in Chiof military
district Korea.
HARRISON
VR
ITS
anal
ac
APR181948
Cat.
Di2.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.87)
SECRET
F元/Roz
WAR DEPARTMENT
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
WASHINGTON
Rode
CN^
D dR
MEMORADUR FOR PHE LAISOF GEFICER, STATE DEPATTYLL:
pili
SUBJMCT: Transmittal oF Report
Tho attached Report Ho. a-Sse, fron Capturcd Porsonnel and Mater-
ial Branch, cnted z0 Jolp le45, is forwardei for transaittal to the
894.20/7-2345
Deo strent ef State.
Tthe d (t. Cully
 . 
! Incl
Et Colonel, ase
20
Liaison Officer
wite the State Department
an
14.
FEB
-9 1951
FORVICTORY
2
BUY
(S)
Ce
UNITED
WAR
H
BONDS
SECRET
AND
STAMPS

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
Itete
CONFIDENTIAL
(Copy 
20" Ju1y 1945
A-220
REPORT FROM CAPTURED PERSONNEL AND MATERIAL BRANCH
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, U.S. WAR DEPARTMENT
1. This report presents a number of
statements made by several Japanese
Ps/W in June 1945 regarding (a)
socio-economic conditions in Japan,
(b) political controls and (c) morale
in the Japanese Armed Forces.
2.
The statements also reveal a Japanese
point of view (probably not generally
representative of the nation today,
but nevertheless one that seems to be
becoming more articulate) (a) on the
causes of the present war, (b) on the
best post-war international arrange-
ments for the maintenance of peace in
the Orient, (c) on the proposal that
the present Emperor abdicate, and
(d) on the differences between the
American and Japanese ways of life.
3.
Some of these Ps/I also comment upon
the significance of anti-Japanese
Propaganda and make specific sug-
gestions for the furtherance of
Psychological Warfare against the
Japanese.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P.1)
SIDE-LIGITS ON MORALE IN. THE JAPANESE ARIED FORCES:
"The Army has broken every rule of the Emperor Meiji's five
great sayings (Go Kajo and Go Seiman), especially that paragraph
which says, 'soldiers must not take part in government affairs."
"When the enemy aircraft raided our area, the civilian con-
struction unit all went into the air raid shelter because they
were scared."
"The Buddhist priests are the hardest sect of people to get into
this war - they're really opposed to the kcilling of people."
"Japan is going to fight on the Continent. This Continental
war will involve more individual fighting; but it vill be inpossible
to resist the Allies because of their mechanized pover. I have
seen them fight 'even by moving mountains'." (Note: P/AT probably
refers to the levelling of hills for new airfields by'bull-dozers
and other equipment.")
"They used to rank the civilian personnel attached to the
Armed Forces next to the carrier pigeons. I guess the rank
order was like this: war-dogs, horses, carrier pigeons and then
civilian personnel. Animals doing outstanding vork in battle re-
ceived great honors but non-combatants were not even recognized
as having made any contribution. The least they should have done
for these was to give them a place at the Yasukuni Sirine; but
how could they, as therets no room even in the cellar for them."
"Up to now we've been having things too much our way in China.
Just because we: were born in God's country doesn't give us any
superiority over the Chinose. And the same thing holds vith the
Germans - they are not better than those Jewish people whom they
executed by the thousands."
"I hope Japan doesn't resort to mass suicide. I wouldn't know
what I'd be living for, if my parents and brothers all died."
COMMENTS ON CONDITIONS II JAPAN.
"Win or lose, that military clique must be broken; and if once
broken, should never be allowed to be formed again."
"There are many men in Japan who have a lot of common sense
but they do not have any power."
"The best thing for Japan is to ask for peacc. It will at
least save Japan from uttor destruction."
"The rations that we brought with us from Japan weren't very
good and we didn't have much canned meat."
"Tovels and soap are two of the commodities that are rationed
and are very scarce. Tovels sold for three or four yen apiece. The
government should have released more of these, for without them
fa ctory workers cannot keep clean. I had a very hard time trying to
get one. I wonder whether the government thinks we are savages.
Even toilet paper is scarce and hard to got."
"We have a death ray in Japan but it probably hasn't been per-
fected as yet."
CONFIPENTIAL

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P. 2)
"Those Boeings arc really effective. Their accurate bombing
can be traced to their superior bombsight."
"We received inexperienced pilots at our station - for oxample,
out of the four patrols sent out, two failed to return because they
lost their way."
The following statoment vas prepared in Japanese by a P/i vho
offered his assistance to the American officer particularly in China.
Ho has frequently expressed strong anti-Japaneso government senti-
ments and stated that while a student, he was jailcd for cxpressing
liberal thoughts:-
"My Opinion on tho Present World Situation
I am not in favor of the present Japanese Imperialistic Government.
My present attitudo is scemingly not ono of loyalty towards Japan,
primarily because I am interosted in the restoration of Japan.
My actions to date have been motivated by tho. thought of bringing
this war to a speody conclusion.
The longer the wer continues, the more people will die, and the
greater will be tho destruction of Japan. Realization of this
causes me much grief.
Americans as individuals, I think, are very kind. One cannot
express tho same opinion of Americans vhen thoy becomo a group.
Novertheless my fecling is based on the attitude of several individuals
among my guards who are under strict discipline.
Let us look at Europe which has come under Allied control.
America, through the medium of demoeratic doctrines, has paved
the nations in Europe from dictators. This is proof that Americans
are kind. France, Italy, Germany, Poland, Bulgaria and Hungary are
freed by democracy and kindness.
I am one of the poace lovers, so hope this war will ond as soon
as possible; and I will do my best to bring about this peace. If
America will allow me, I vill give her cverything I have, and will
cooperate with America who is fighting for democracy. I will repeat
again, my ideal is not Imperialism and I em a lover of frecdom. I
will promise to live my entire life under the ideals of domocracy. I
am planning to vrito a book on my ideas for finishing the war with
Japan as soon as possible.
For this roason, and for my work hereafter, I vant to change my
name to'KIYOKAIA, TomoyuliI, ploase understand mo."
A Navy Captain writos:-
A.
Post-war Arrangoment for Maintaining Poace.
The most important and cssential clemont in maintaining peace
between both countrios in mutual understanding. The nationality,
system of goyornment, national traits, nationalistic focling, policy,
ctc., of cach must bo vell imorm by tho other, and thon matual sympathy
is naturally produced with comploto understanding. In addition, we
must not forget faithfulnoss.I We can avoid a collision, or rather
we can cooperato in tho policy vith mutunl compromisc, cven though
our policics cross cach other. Founded on this idea, of a Japan-
a
..CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P. 3)
America harmony assembly! or society with members of officials and
private persons of various interests. Besides, promoting international
cooperation among the people it would support the promotion of national
resources, modify the educational system, encourage mixed marriages,
and strengthen law enforcement and punishment of extremists who menace
life, etc.
I have been thinking deeply still of these measures and am
endeavoring to find a possible and practical. plan. I believe this
to be my assignment given by God, and I have determined to concen-
trate my energy on this work; otherwise it is unworthy for me to live.
any longer since I am a captive. When. I later evolve a plan I will.
report it to the Authorities in the U.S.A. and ask their assistance.
Whatever the arrangements are, we must not, I believe, forget they
can be expected to succced only through the faithfulness of the persons.
involved and with mutual confidence as the key.
I will try herewith to describe only my present ideas:
1. An absolute superiority of armed forces, and the permament
occupation of necessary strategic bases vill be necessary.
2. It wili be wise for the troops not to have long and direct
contect with peoples of the defeated nation in order to avoid bad
feeling among the people through troubles which may happen accidentally
because of misunderstandings. To maintain peace, we have to be very
careful from the first stage after the war.
3.  It is of greatest importance for America to let the
Japanese people lmow by her deeds and words - declarations and
practical treatment - that she believes that Japan has the right and
ability to develop and keep a normal living activity, and society as
a nation in the world,/and that a normal living astivity, and society
as a nation-in the world, and that therefore if the people of Japan
will be faithful to hunanity, and be trustworthy and moderate inter-
nationally, America will willingly support them and assist in the
establishment of an economic system and foreign trade.
4. The government of the Japanese empire should be left in
the hands of the Japanese. If some foreign body tries to covern
Japan, many and great dangers must be expected, because foreigners
do not lmow much of the pecularities of Japan, hile the people of
Japan kmow themselves best. Even China, which is now apparently
thought to be best fitted to control Japan, cannot do so. This
will be easily understood even by reading only one report of the
"Newsweek" war correspondent Harold Isaacs, whose stories have become
familiar to everyone vho Imows China. We Imow that there are many
cleverer Japanese who can be expected to establish a better Japan
without outside assistance, pushing aside or destroying the so-called
Military Extremists or black clique with their ovm hands, because
they have lmovm the faults and failures of their plan, even though
the Militarists' realism is right. I prefer the way which will make
the people of Japan understand the American ideals and system.
5. I believe it has not occurred to the Japanese people, to
think of the leaders among the war advocatos as legal criminals, but
I have some presentment that those leaders will find their way
to apologize for their failures to the Emperor and to the whole nation.
Even if Japan loses the var, Japanese cannot believe or even imagine
the Emperor as responsible. Therefore it will be most effective for
America to show the people of Japan her full understanding by per-
mitting the Emperor to keep his throne. Conversely it behooves the
Japanese to believe. and trust Americans. With this foundation we can
surely expoct continucd poace between the countries.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P.4)
B.
Responsibilitics When War is Over.
1.) Officially as a senior officer, I have the responsibility
of reporting.on our prisoners' life, with accuracy, and vithout any
cxaggeration. I would like to publish tho roport to the vorld and
hope even to record it in war history.
2.) I would liko to appeal'to tho Japanoso authorities to
reinstate prisoners of war and let them share in cstablishing peace
according to their abilities.
3.) I would like to erect a monument to let our nation know
true America and Americans which I have come to understand during my
prisoner life. I beliove that kmovledge of each other is an essential.
clement of mutual understanding. I must confess that we Japanese did
not lnow enough of America and the Americans. One of my plans to
ostablish understanding is the publication of the record of what I have
seen and heard directly with my cyes and ears during my prisoner life;
tho other is to becomo a member of the movement which I described
carlier in this statoment.
4.) I would like to comfort the familics which lost their sons
or husbands who dicd under my command in the Pacific area, and to help
to find jobs for them if nocessary.
5.) In addition to these I will dare to do anything that will
contribute to peaco.
C. Causes of the War.
My views on the causes of the war have not changed since I
became a P/AI. But I must confoss that I found the difforence in order
of the standard is far apert from my kmowledgo about under-ostimating
the powers of America for oxamplo I could not have imagined the
American mechanical superiority in practical application of science,
and in its. quantity. I found the strong power to kcep the fighting
spirit of people up. I found hovw cleverly and effectively the Pearl
Harbor invasion has been used to advantage in arousing hostility and
the fighting spirit. All these facts are what I have vi tnessed and
have obsorved in papers, magazines, and in the many Marinos, and Navy
Officers whom I havo mot. I will herewith try to describe my views for
reference about the cause of the war.
Could this war have been avoided? No! Decauso'both Japan and
America lacked mutual undorstanding, faith, and sympathy, and they under-
ostimated the military power and tho national spirit of cach other.
Thich was right ? Each can be said to bo right, or cach can be said to
be vrong. A quarrel is never one-sided. Is this a wor of race? No!
Is this a war of thought? No! Thon it can be dalled a war of cconomy.
"If there had not been a Poarl Harbor attack, the war would not have
happened", is an cxplanation merely for child.
Now I will try to reviow tho policies of both nations. In Japan
they say that they expect to establish ctornal peace, making a world of
mutunl friondship of race and country, developing the good rolations
between noighbors with tho principle of cquality and reciprocity. They
insist on rospect of sovercignty and indopendency of cach country, and
non-interference in internal affairs of other countrics. They say
cconomically thc principlo must be onc of cooperation and tho open-
door; and with this principlo of reciprocity, thoso should fojlow frecdom
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
2.5,
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P. 5)
and development of trade and communication, and mutual open-doors. By
enforcing the smooth cuurrent of cultural movement, both countries would
contribute to vorld peace. .Thus they declare to establish a world of
non-aggression. America, too, announces almost all of the same principles,
emphasizing mutual confidence. With these declarations, how can we
expect war? But there was a cause for the collision: namely, the
policies of Japan and America concerning the Far Last were not the same.
We must look back a century. America appeared in the Far East
theater to gain a market with many nations one after the other. From
the first, America was aware of Russia's ambition in Asia. Since Peter
the Great, Russia has been firmly holding to the traditional policy of
marching out to the Pacific; and has had a geographical advantage in
this. It might be a serious matter for America and England to check
Russia's eastward movement. They decided to use Japan. Japan, directly
facing the Russian wall, being backed by America and England, made an
offensive - defensive alliance with England. The rapid and unexpected
development of Japan, and her inevitable expansion, which was un-
fortunately misinterpreted as her intention to push all rights and
interests of America and Europe from Asia, made Amorica and England
change their Far-East policies. Since then China has been put in the
place of Japan in their policy to prevent the expansion of Japanese
power. England abandoned the Japan-England alliance and vith America
backed China against Japan.
Japan's ideal is, that Far Eastern regional peace must be
gained first in order to secure and maintain world peace. Haturally
after that Japan should be the leader of the Asia region with the policy
described above, which is similar to what America has been adopting and
applying to the North and South American continents.
On the other hand, Japanese innigration in the U.S A. was re-
stricted. The current of Japanese expansion had to change its course to
the north or to the west of Japan. At about that time Jap an felt the
menace of Communism coming dovm through Siberia to Japan. Manchukuo was
established and Japan helped her as she is called the protecting line of
Japan. This advance of Japan into Manchukuo was bitterly criticized by
America and England as the behavior of the Japanese Army in Hanchukuo was
aggressive and also vas against the international spirit of reciprocity
and the open-door principle. At last Lord Lytton's report tried to check
Japan's development toverd the continent of Asia.
During the orld Tar I, Japan proposed the so-called notorious
twenty-one demands on China. Though these were not successful, they
caused a strong anti-Japan movement in China, and gave a good excuse for
China to back America and England.
The ratio of 5: 5: 3 is well kmorm to every Japanese as having
been forced upon her. Japanese people vere not only afraid of her com-
parative weakness thus created, but also feared that Japan might lose an
adequate supporting power for her diplomacy, which vas thought poor enough;
that America and England might be tricly in their dealings, since fair and
right diplomacy must be backed with adequate power.
China has never tried to thro avay her traditional policy
founded on the principle of being cooperative at a distance, and offensive
towards neighbors. She misunderstood Japan's hand as being aggressive.
She disturbed the stabilizing influence in Asia she held with Japan, re-
fusing now to join with Japan, and siding with America and England.
Anti-Japanese movements in China became more and more serious.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P.6)
By this time the military extremists had gained the leadership
in Japan and pushed their policy forcibly. They were criticized by
many Japanese as intending to adopt some kind of the totalitarian
administration contrary to Japan's proper governmental system. Iie
people of Japan believed the Japanese policy to be right. They hed
suffered extremely during many years of anti-Japanose movement in
China. Therefore thinking that it would be better to persuade China
first, they followed the militarists demands, taking advantage of
the Marco Polo Bridge incident. Meanvhilo active assistance by
America and Britain to China from the back became stronger and more
obvious; and Singapore, Hongkong etc. were strongly fortified.
Japan was face to face with a diroct menace both in arms and in
cconomy. We could well understand at that time the seriousness of
the economic situation because Japanese economy had mainly relied
upon America and England.
By this time'the Japanesc were cxpericncing many diplomatic
troubles in the North, where they could not bo satisfied because
of poor material and food at the time. Therefore naturally they
turned to the South for national oxpansion and to gain the oil. to
foed industry. This is the reason that the South is called the "life
line" of Japan.
But here, too, .Japan faced the obstruction of America and
England. I think there has never been a more sorious time of anti-
American and English fecling amont the people of Japan, then the time
When they realized that Special Commissioner Kobayashi (Minister of
Economy at the time) failed in his nogotiations vith the Dutch
government in Jave to buy oil, because of the influence of London and
Washington; and the time when the peoplo were told by r cturning
voterans from China that they found American and British soldiers
sometimes including officers in the first lines helping Chinese troops
against them.
In spito of tho continuous diplomatic ncgotiations both in
Tokio and Washington thore could not be found any way to solve the
difficult and tangled problem, unless either Japan or America changed
its policy.
However Japan believed and insisted that her policy was never
wrong, and that she must koep it because of promises to Germany and
Italy. America, too, could not chango her policy, without breaking
her promises to the Allies,.and also choating China and her ovm
nation. Thus Japan and America faced a stalemate.
In addition to these facts described above, thero were likely
such under-estimations as follows, to fan the flamos of disputo between
the two countries. The fire may have becn lighted at Pearl Harbor,
and tho tinder may have boen prepared in Washington. Anyhow Japan
thought if the ratio 5:3 vere cqualized by this stratogy sho could
then control the vestorn Pacific; consequently after occupying the
East Indios, if the var lasted long, she could supply enough materials
from the South. She under-ostimated the power of weapons and the
fighting spirit of America. On the other hand, America, too under-
ostimated Japan's pover: Japan had not sufficient pover to challenge
America, and sho had alroady spent much onergy in China, and
Japanoso economists could not risk such a foolish var as to bring
about thoir cm automatic dostruction; Amorican military suporiority
could casily win the war
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
∴-220(P. 7)
Whenever I think of the cause of the war, I have specially
to point out the lack of faith on each side. They must reflect upon
the fact that in being too loyal to the interests of their own
country they forget the most beautiful faith of morality in human
living. If they both have this faith they can trust each other, and
consequently they are sure to' find a way to avoid war.
D.
Observations on the Difference Between the Japanese and
American Covernmental Systems.
Now I must shamefully confess that my knowledge of govern-
mental systems is very poor. Ly views on this question have not
changed since I've been a prisoner but after long thinking about
this in a P/V camp and from a somewhat perspective position, I can
state some of the merits and defects of the Japanese system.
There is a distinctive and great but natural difference
between the governmental ideas of Japan and America. The difference
of ideas is not strange because it is the natural product of the
origin of each country. In Japan an ancestor came out to govern
and his decendants spread over the land. Therefore the origin naturally
came from above. Japanese people are all branches of twigs from one
seed, with the same privilege and duty to the ancestor-monarch. This
is the spiritual and virtual tradition lasting over two thousand years.
This ideal theory means that the monarch has the right to govern
the people, and all the people have equally the right and duty to
help the monarch to go ern. On this view-point the Japanese govern-
mental system was firmly ustablished, and in its form and even in
its spirit European and American styles are adopted, being modified
along the Japanese lines.
The fundamental idea of the Japanese constitution is that
it is representation of the vill of God - ancestor: with it the
monarch governs, and with it the people help the monarch. And this
constitution - drafted by Frince Ito - is founded on the declaration
of the Emperor Meiji, that "Many deliberative Assemblies shall be
summoned and all measures shall be décided by public opinion; everyone
shall be of one mind in the active conduct of the administration; the
vicious and uneivilised customs of antiquity shall be broken through,
searching knowledge widely in the world; tho great principles of
impartially and justice - shall be the basis for action;......".
Being ruled by the constitution, the governmental system of
Japan is composed of Cabinct, Diet (high and low) and Privy Council.
Sumitsuiin (privy council) is an organ which checks governmental measures
as planned by the 'Dict or sometimes by the Cabinet to see if they come
within the constitution before the Emperor signs. This system is
similar to that of the U.S.A. which is composed of an Executive branch
(Cabinet), Congressional branch (Senate and House of Representatives),
and legislative branch (Judiciary). But there is a distinct difference
in that the Japanese Promier is appointed by the Emperor, while the
president of tho U.S.A. is clected by the people. Therefore the
Japanese premier has logically a responsiblity to the Emperor, but
not to the Dict. However the original idea, held by the drafter Prince
Ito, is that the premior should bo the leader of whichever political
party controls the Diet. Members of tho Diet, of coursc, are all
representatives of the nation. Thus the promier of Japan ordinarily
has the further qualification of being a representative of the nation.
He is therefore responsible to the Diet. This cmbodies a democratic
idea. But recently there is the fear that a premier, who is not a
member of and vho has no actual support from a political party in the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220 (P. 8)
Diet, may become somewhat totalitarian and want to force his policy.
We cannot say there is no risk that he may not cleverly uso the name
of the Emperor to override a law. It is very natural that one should
hear of movements to recreate or renew a powerful and healthy political
party with enthusiasm.
Now as to revising the Japanese governmental system, I believe
that there is no chance of success in abolishing the monarchy, because
it is against the great ideal spirit of its creation of the Empire of
Japan, described above. In other words, it is as múch against nature,
as it vould be for America to change from democracy
Americans united themselves from everyvhere in the.vorid into
a nation in comparatively rocent times, thcrefore they naturally agroed
to govern themselves. Honce the idea can be said to have come from
belov, and tho governmental system was produced by this idoa.
In Japan, there has becn the ancient doctrine that the best
and necessary ways to govern is first to hear the poople's voice. In
recent years the idea is popular that officials should be, at tho
samo time, sorvants of tho people. They will welcome such adequate
stops as will avoid tho tendency to totalitarianism of a particular
group.
E. Difference Betwoon Japanose and American ays of Life.
My views about the difforence between the Japanose and
American ways of lifo havo not changed at all, but I must confess
that I found that the differences are greater than I had thought
before. I think it is because I vas put in a ner: and unaccustomed
atmosphere. I will herorrith try to describe various vicws vhich I
deeply fcol:-
1.) It vas most curious for me to find that the American
people keep tho war spirit at such a high pitch as at present, during
comparatively long years, in spite of tho fact that they are the
assembled people from cver where in the world. Every soldier of the
Army and every Marine or the Navy officers with whom I mot, used to
say unanimously that thoy are engaging in the war becauso they want
to come back home as carly as possible, hence they must vin the war;
but they would not hopefully go to tho fighting front, and, whon at
the front, they advance after sweeping tho dangers by shells and
bombs away. Some..said that the term of "righteous war" is only ono
which leaders of government made to cncourage the pooplo toward the
war, and that there is no war in which justice is only on ono sido
in this civilized world. Judging-from these conversations, I can
say that materials and machines are the main factors of fighting
power. Still I could find that such a spirit as "Amarica is the
first in the world", - though it looks something liko an adult infan-
tilism, - has strongly supported them in the war. Nevertholess. the
actual facts tell us that materials and armaments are vinning tho
var against tho spirit. I want to noto a few results of tho differences
of ways of lifo of both nations.
2.) The differenco in the surplus of goods vas remarkable to
mo. Even at ono glance at any American installation shows a higher
order surplus in the American lifo both spiritually and matorially.
And every day the newspaper teaches us that the Amcrican peoplo
have such a surplus of goods as to arrango postwar plans - officially
and privately.
CONFIDEN TIAL

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P. 9)
3.) I have heard that the living standard of the American
people is much higher than that of the Japanese. because of the American's
higher education. But I found the reason is not true. On the point
of education, the conditions are rather on the contrary. I could know
this fact after having many chances to contact military service men
vho came from various classes or jobs. Among Japanesē soldiers there
are very few who cannot vrite their own names or who cannot read a
paper.
4.) As for the development of the scientific civilization -
specially the greatness and a spread of mechanical power and ideas -
everyone can easily understand it vith a glance at Construction
Battalion (See-Bee) activities and equipment. I saw in a'vast field
only two or three persons working, or it is better to say, maneuvering
some large machines. This way of life partly shows the difference
between the conditions of both countries. If every farmer in Japan
changed his ways of life to this style, they would be unnanageable
with so many people out of jobs. It can be said that the Japanese
have been trained durin many centuries to enjoy the spiritual ways
of life, and they have actually enjoyed and admired them, while in
America rather materialistic ways of life are much adopted and admired.
The majority of the Japanese, except the people in large cities, seldom
enjoy a movie or theater once a week. Instead of these ausements
they enjoy vriting characters or composing poems, or their best comfort
and recreation vill be to make a happy family group of smiling and
humming at home after the days worlk. They enjoy going out to the
fields early in the morning with stars overhead and to coming back
home to bathe in the moonlight. For them the fruits of work are the
more respectful if gained by the sweat of their brow. Thus they live
with a great solf-satisfaction. In America it vill be naturel to find
too many artificial amusoments, because the people of America have
a great tendency to raise the highost working efiicieney with the
least labour, and to make a time to enjoy materialistic amusements.
5.) We had lcarned that the people of America have an individual
character but also they are very fair and frank, because of their ways
of life. But sorry to say, I doubt this. Probably because, I must
Imov. the American way of life as observed by a P/W.
6.) The large-scaled ways-of life of the Americans must
be admirable as a whole. I think these ways of life came from large-
scale ideas. They use an aeroplane to kill caterpillars instead of
using a water-plot, or to kill mosquitoes and flies in à whole
island in the Pacific spraying insecticido from the air. Or they
make a wide road in the country, or a vast tomato field! How large
scaled they aro! And they are scientific and rational. Comparing
to these, how small-sealed are the ways of life of the Japanose.
Japanese people are skillful in making a type. of miniature gardens.
But on one side, we can say that roughness of the American and
minuteness of the Japanese are a good contrast. The difference came
from their countries om nature.
7.) In addition to this large-scaled idea, tho Americans have
another specialty, - "thoroughgoingnoss" I have hoard of tho floating
of the sunken ships in Pearl Harbor, of irrigation, ond shipbuilding.
Whatever they do at all, they are sure to master their subject. If
necessary they call evory oxpert from all the world, and make any
kind of tocls and machincs.
8.) The Americans have initiative, the Japanese have a talent
for imitation - the talent contains an ability to Japanizo everything.
I cannot but criticize tho manners.in which the Japaneso authorities
floated the ships in the Socrabaya channel. It vas childish.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220 (P. 10)
9.) Freedom of speech and press are, too, at higher degree
than I thought before. I was astonished to read in an American paper
a contribution, "Fair enough", criticizing boldly and unshamefully even
the private life of President Roosevelt. In Japan they do not dare to
make such a personal attack. Very recently I have read a contribution
about China's present condition in the "Newsweek." The reports of the
correspondent exposed the disorder in China and the poorness of her
power, even saying she can hardly be called a country. Reading this
report I thought how foolish it is that the U.S. pretends that China is
one of the 5 big powers. And at about the time General Stilwell came
back from China, a correspondent reported to some magazine that China
is unworthy to be given any arms by the Allies, because troops, of
China do not know how to handle them, and even if they were taught
they would only break or otherwise deteriorate the arms by leaving
them rust. Therefore, he said, to give excellent arms to Chinese
means to throw them away.
Thile the American government is evidently trying to be very
careful of Soviet Russia, people or newspapermen or others are criticizing
and attacking the ambition of Russia. Such facts being open to the
public, regardless of its effect on foreign polioy, is very interesting
to us: However, looking from another side, the censorship is likely
pretty severe. One day I read in a paper a contribution telegraphed
from Rome by a representative, which urged easing of the censorship
of reports, because the conditions he found in his travels in Eunope
are quite different from the ideas held by Americans at home.
10.) "Strike" in industrial factories in America in war time
cannot easily be understood by the Japanese. The people of America
seem to draw a line between the national and the private life. . In a
magazine (Time) a contribution by a mother asks that since her three
sons had done their duties on the European front, they should be
ommitted from fighting in the Pacific theater. These are some
examples of a national sense overpowered by a personal sense. It may
be more suitable, I think, to say that such ideas result from the
course of national composition rather than to give an unplcasant
sounding name of "egoistic" to their porsonal ways of life.
11.) To suppress the personal will is instilled in the Japanese
people, whilc in America they say loudly it is "against freedom" as if
that were criminal. "Fublic interest must be first, even to sacrificing
self-interest", is highly respected from ancient-times in Japan as
oriental morality. Therefore various mottos such as "Duty is first
rather than right" can bo found in the ways of life of the Japanese.
In America they rather insist on exercising their right frcely.
I may find many more distinctive differences in the ways of
life. Anyhow it is difficult to judge which and what is better,
because it is of a subject view. In my case I vould like to adopt
more scientific and initiative ways in our life.
一
F. Opinions of Proposals for Abdication of the Empcror.
An announcement by the Allies that the present Emperor must
abdicate in favor of his son or onc of his brothers would serve only
to deepen the conviction of every Japanese that the foreignors have
misunderstood the relation between the Emperor and the people, especially
from tho spiritual point of view. Thoy will feel sure that these groat
misunderstandings in America had been ono of the causes of this war.
The moderates cspocially (I beliovo there are a lot of peoplo who had :
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P.11)
and have anti-military extromists' idoas) vill be extrcmcly dis-
appointed in this announcement, because such an idea. will scriously
effect the spirit in which they arc cagerly searching for somo basis
for an understanding betwoen Japan and America. Since thc war began,
Amcrica has never touched the Emperor, at loast in public announcements
or declarations. This fact has givin to the moderates the most en-
couraging fcoling of being able to shako hands and cooperate with
America in tho future, because it not only most effectively roassures
the Japancse people that thcir social order will be retained, but also
confirms Americats understanding, recognition, and sympathy for Japan
and the Japanese, and results in a fading of anti-Amoricanism. Thore-
fore I would prefor to have tho suggcstion of retaining the prosent
Emperor for Japan announced. It will lay a foundation for maintaining
peace after the vwar and in some cases, I think, it will even hasten
tho end of the var. As deseribed above, the Japanose peoplo's idea for
their Emperor is absoluto and immutable; the Emperor has done no evil,
therefore no crimo can bo attached to him. This beliof is, I think,
much liko "Christ is the father." Indced this belicf in tho Emperor
is said to bo super-religious. Judging fróm the Japaneso nation's
belief or senso for the "Emperor" of Japan, tho "abdication" cannot be
considered by them spiritually or Iugally. They will say that the
abdicition means to then what denying God means to Christians. There-
fore it is sure that to treat the Emperor, as if he were an artificial
organ of the government is to foreo tho people to a serious religious
uncasiness and a great revulsion.
In the history of Japan, if tho Emperor could not govern
because of serious illicss or because of his youth, his son or his
brother governed in his nemo as "Sessho"(rogent), but still in this
case the Emperor kc ps the throne. In ancient times somo Enperors
abdicated the throne in favor of their sons or brothers, but this
form is now out of tho Imperial Househeld Laws. If worst come to worst
in the war, and if the Emperer was forced to abdicate by tho Allics,
the people vould bo absolutely unreconciled. Japenese people, except
so-called intelligontsia, have likely been inspired and onraged by
the "Unconditional Surrender" propaganda as indicating that the Allies
are planning the complote dostruction of Japan and the Japanose. The
military leaders have likely been making use of the declaration to
raise and maintain the national hostility and the fighting spirit. In
my opinion the Japanoso poople are most anxious about tho Allied uncon-
ditional surrender declaration including the problem of the Emperor.
In like manner an announcement that the Allies will demand
that Japan abolish the monarchy will cause an insano exeitement among
the people, and vill promote a strong national movoment to strengthen
tho unity, and determination to fight to the last man. Thus it would
result only in prolonging tho war and inercasing luman misery. As I
stated before, the Japeneso Emperor is the symbol of the Japanese
peoplc, the center of thoir spiritual lives, and is a super-roligious
objoct. It should be said that this national boliof of 2,600 years
could never bo destroyed by only a few years' var. Even though some
ono should do it, thero is nothing to gain from it. It will not be a
way to maintain pcacc.
A Leading Privato Comments on the Importanco of Propaganda:
A.
"Subjoct of Propaganda."
Tho first thing to consider in a Propaganda Program is the
contents of tho leaflcts used. Thore that have been distributed in
Japan in the past only arouso an adverso rcaction in tho peoplc. In
other words tho contents of the propaganda loaflots aro tho biggost
problem:
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220(P.12)
1. They fail to understand the Japanoso poople.
2. The mothod of using tho propaganda loaflots ia vrong.
They should be used throughout Japen, in tho citics,
villagos and in the country.
3.
Ono must have tho tenacity and will for hard work, in
other vords tho organization itsclf must bo a pormanent
set up, and not be tomporary.
The most important thing to do is to tcll the peoplo tho
truth, and givo them soothing to think over. If tho loaflots have
both of theso qualities, they can bo said to bo flawless. In order to
get the best results, the contents must be mothodically arrangod, that
is to say alphabotically. If tho subject matter is prosented hap-
hgzardly the Japenesc poople will never believe it. Tho sequeney
should be as follows:
1.
Let them kno: that Japan will be defeated by giving true
battlo information from all possiblo anglos.
2.
Point out tho futility of mass suicides; that thoso will
only result in the fine Japanose people boing wipcd off
the face of the carth.
3.
Tell the people that the Americans vill not kill tho
Japanoso nationals. Evon front-lino American soldiers
do not kill or beat up thoir Japanesc Ps/W, but treat
them the same as their om soldiors. Allay the foar of
the Jepanose pooplc that they will bo butchered or
enslaved. This fear is fostored by the militarists and
the government.
The above three itoms are important and iust be the basis of
all propaganda mossagos. Without those, all propaganda is useloss.
Success of the propaganda can bo assured if the aforementioned "contents,
utilization and organization" is kept in mind. Mhen Amorica carries
those three itoms through and the Japenese people bogin to consider
them seriously, then there vill be other methods that must bo used, but
it vwill only be an claboration of the thrce fundamental items montioned
beforc, for examplc:-
1.
The oxposing of the truo meaning of tho so-called "Greater
East Asia Co-prosperity Sphero."
2.
The truth about battle conditions and sufferings of the
Japanese soldiers on the islands of the South Scas, about
the atrocities they have committed, about the prevalence
of suicides and assassinations in the Japanese Army at
home.
3.
The murdorous ordors that the army issues to the individual
units.
4.
The deaths from starvation, and cannibalism duc to hunger
among tho 4000 soldiers on Maloclap Island in the Marshals.
5.
The cruel treatmont of soldiers by Staff Mombers in con-
noction vith "banzai" chargcs.
6.
The mistreatment and misery of tho Chinoso people and the
cruel murder of natives.
7.
The truo condition of the Ps/W, thoir confossions and lamants.
8.
The humanitarianism and friondlincss of tho U.S.A.
9.
The voico of tho Japaneso soldiers who fell in battle.
10.
The mothers of Japan.
Thero aro countloss other subjocts, but it should bo strossed again that
tho importance of tho contents must not bo ovorlooked.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
CQNFIDENTIAL
A-220 (P. 13)
B. Propaganda Pamphlets to Prevent Mass Suicides.
The more pamphlets used, the better the results. There will
be better results from 1000 kg of pamphlets than a 1000 kg bomb. Of
course the bombing of military installations is important, but if
America thinks that better results can be obtained by bombing residential
districts and killing as many people as possible, than she will be
greatly disappointed. If by this means America thinks she can divide
the people and the Army she is wrong. Indiscriminate bombings can and
will be taken advantage of by the militarists as an act of savagery
and will result in ever stronger opposition to the U.S. In such a
case, when America lands in Japan proper, she will be placed in a
position where she will have to kill even the women and children. This
vill be pitiful not only for America, who is advocating peace, but also
for the Japanese people. If the war cannot be von by leaving the
residential district intact, then it is a different problem, but this
can only come about because the U.S. does not understand the Japanese
people. If the U.S. understands the Japanese people then she will
Inow that they are not to be blamed for this war. If the U.S. does
not attempt to understand the Japanese people, then our work and our
hopes for peace will never be realized. I firmly believe that with
the help of America the militarists can be destroyed. With the help
of the U.S. I would like to save the Japanese people from their suffering.
I ask America for guidance and help, therefore I plead with you that
America take the right road toward victory. I also ask the U.S. War
Dept to contemplate what I have said and to execute my plans. America
will be the victors and when that day comes Japan will be in a worse
condition than any country in Europe. This ruinous condition will be
brought about by the greatest mass suicides in history. If the U.S.
docs not consider this carefully and continues this war to its end,
she will inevitably witness the mass suicides of the Japanese people."
There were forwarded, attached to the original copy of this report,
propaganda posters dram by prisoner. Translations of these follows:
EXHIBIT X
"Listen to the pitiful voices of those who have died and have now
become the glorious spirits of Yasukuni Shrine:
Parents, brothers, sisters! Please wait! The mad orders of
the Army are suicidal for the nation. The people constitute the nation
and the Army. Ve (the soldiers) have died in your place. Please live
to correct the wrong. Parents, brothers, sisters! We have been
watching the objectives of both Japan and America from our shrine. We
gre not worried about the policy of brothorly love of America, but the
policy of Japanoso militarists does not let us rost in peace. We
know well that Amcrica is an advocate of peace."
EXHIBIT Y
"You are the only onos who can save Japan. You have no idea what
the soldiers were saying when they had'to fight with bamboo spears and
stones and vere starving to death and committing suicidc. Those
villains at the head of tho Japanese Army vho ordered mass suicides
on every front and are causing you to go through hell are the cnemies
of world cooperation. The suicide of the military leaders, who have
killed many of our peoplc in this long war, is thoir punishment by Heaven.
If you follow in their footstops and die, the souls of tho soldiers who
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-220 (P.14)
have died in battle will never rest in peace, Tho whito boxes with tha
ashes of soldicrs which you received do not contain their heroic soul
and are as worthless as the bonds you purchased. They are the lies
of the military villains and mercly cruel momentoes. Thore are a great
many survivors of those suicide "attacks so do not become discouraged.
Do not believo the Impcrial Hq reports. America is truly the heaven-
sent messenger of peacc. Thero is nothing to fear. This can be
verificd anywhere. Sever at once all relations with those abominable
military leaders and lct us live vigorously in a new peaceful Japan."
For the A. C. of S., G-2:
P. E. PEABODY
Brigadier Genoral, GSC
Chief; Military Intelligence
'Service
DISTRIBUTION
1-16
MIS
CPM FILES
17-40
ASF
41
AAF (AIR INT)
42-54
NAVY
55-60
G-2 STTPA
61
G-2 USAFFE
62
G-2 HONOLULU
63
G-2 USAFIB
64
G-2 1OTH ARMY
65
G-2 USAFC
66
CINCPOA (AIC)
67,68
SEAC
69
JANIS
70
WD (LOHDÓN)
71
DC
72,73
VDICC
74
JTS
75
JSC
76
77-80
JICPOA
OSS
81-84
85,86
FEA
87,88
OTI
CAD
89,90
IED CORPS
91
STATE DEPT
92
AGF
93-95
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
May 26, 1947
NA
Mr. Borton
Please note. Will you want to
comment, or shoulc we advise Gen. NcCoy
accordingly?
EAG

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
I/R
CONFOT
7ile
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
19 May 1947
Dear General Hilldring:
The War Department has just received Generel MacArthur's comments
with respect to SC-C20/13, the Far Eastern Commission paper on the
Control of Japanese Military Activity in Japan. His comments, which
apply to the attached letter, are as follows:
"I am in complete agreement with the United States position
894.20/5-1947
suggested in par 5b of referenced letter. The disarmament and demobil-
ization of the Japanese Armed Forces has been conducted under the pro-
visions of a United States directive and is complete except insofar as
the demobilization of prisoners of war still held outside of Japan is
concerned. The latter are being processed in accordance with that
directive as they arrive on Japanese soil. Apart from the fact that
the controversial Soviet amendment clearly implies a criticism of SCAPS
discharge of his function, a policy decision relating to the disarmament
and demobilization of the Japanese Armed Forces at this stage of the
occupation is clearly artificial and misleading and can serve no purpose
other than to confuse contemporary public thinking and sl ant the histor-
ical record from the true sequence of events to the discredit of the
United States position. There seems to be a growing tendency by the Far
Eastern Commission to adopt as its own, policy decisions embodying the
entire pattern of previous United States directives on which SCAP im-
plementing action has already been taken. This in turn may well create
the illusion that the Far Eastern Commission had been the sole originator
of such occupational policy and that all implementing action required
thereunder has been held in abeyance pending the issuance of its own
corresponding directive.
"While by its terms of reference the Far Eastern Commission has
the authority to review United States directives concerning the occupation
and to revise the same if it soes fit, its proper procedure would seem to
be to embody in its action only points in which it finds disagreement with
the directive already in force. This would avoid confused thinking and
preserve a clear and truthful historical record.
"I most strongly urge that the United States firmly adhere to the
course suggested in par 5b referenced letter on this issue, and that he
United States adopt as a policy the principle that Far Eastern Commision
policy decisions on matters already covered by United States direetives
0
be limited to those points with which the Commission disagrees."
196
CS
DECLASSIFIED
R
By C&2 D NARS, Date 2.2 0 CT. 1974

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.91)
CONCIOENT AL
TUTTOLRTTAE
The War Department concurs with General MacArthur's views re-
garding SC-O20/13. It would appear that the paper is satisfactory as
now written and that it would be inappropriate to amend SC-O20/13 to
include the proposed Soviet paragraph regarding the disarmam ont and
demobilization of the Japanese armed forces.
I would appreciate it if you would inform General McCoy of General
MacArthur's comments with regard to SC-O20/13.
Sincerely yours,
ItnwachePtisen
HOWARD C PETERSEN
Assistant Secretary of War

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
15 April 1947
SUBJECT: Far Eastern Comission Paper on Contro1 of Japanese
Hilitary Activity in Japan.
TO
The Commai der in Chief, Far East
Tokyo, Janan
1. Erclosed are ar Lastern Commission (Ec) committee papers
dealing with the contrcl of Japanese : ilitary Activity in Japan.
2. SC-O20/7 was a revision of the origiral U.S. policy paper with
re ard to the Disarma e.t and Demobilization of the Japanese armed
forces as co.tained in S.. CC 58/9 (FEC O17). As a result of your state-
ment that, for all practical ourposes, the disarmament and demobilization
of Japa:ese armed forces in Janan was complete (C 63473 of 26 July 1946,
in reply to .AR 94949), SC-020/11 was prepared as a substitute for SC-
O20/7. This paper was aoproved by all save the Soviet member of the
coittee.
3. eceltly, after several morths delay, the Soviet member has
anoroved C-020/11 subject to certain amendmerts as shown in SC-020/12.
In the li ht of frequent soviet criticisms of the execution of the
disarmament ad demobilization of the Japanese armed forces, it is
possible to construe the proposed paragraph "2" of the first Soviet
ameidmert as a further imolied criticism.
4. S0-020/13, a revision of sc-020/11 in the light of committee
discussior of the proposed Soviet amerdmerts, omits the proposed
Soviet para raoh "2". This paver ill be scussed in the Steering
Committee at an early cate, but it is expected tirt the Soviet member
will a ain insist uvon the inclusion of his orososed paragraph "2".
5. The following alteriative courses of action in aporoving
Sc-020/13 are proposed:
a. Agreement to insertion of the Soviet pronosed paragraph
"2", subject to the understanding that the U.S. will (1) publish its
ori inal policy paper (SWlicc 58/9) on the subject simultareously with
the publication of the FEC policy, and (2) add a statemert, to be in-
cluded in. the minutes and in the Jcs cirective to you, to the effect

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
CANFIDENTILL
that SCAP has bee: operating under a U.S. directive in the disarmament
aid demobilization of Japan, that in the opirion of the U.S. Govern-
ment he has completely carried out the provisions of this directive
save for Japanese armed forces rot yet returned to his jurisdiction,
anc that the rererence to completion of the disarmament and demobili-
zation of Japanese armed forces is necessary only because certain Japan-
ese armed forces have not yet been returned to Japan from theaters not
under control of 3CAP.
b. Insister ce that, ir the li ht of the situation in Japan,
this paoer reed contain no reference to disarmanent and demobilization,
ut srould corceri. itself only with control of future military activity
in Janan.
6. It is pe ieved here that course a would facilitate agreement
and passage of the a er, ad would cortribute to future collaboration
within the o. The ar Departmert is reluctant to propose this course,
however, if you feel tnat it coitains ai. implied FEC criticism of the
marner in which disarmamert ard demobilizatior has been carried out in
Japan.
7. In order to assist in the fom ulation of a defiritive
U.S. positior, vour views with regard to the adoption of ore of the
courses propesed in oaragraph 5 are urgently requested by radio.
6 incls
LAU TS OSTAD
1. SC-020/7 (3 cys)
Hajor Gereral, GSC
2。
S(-020/9 (3 css)
Director of Plais & Operations
3.
SC-020/10 (3 c s)
4.
Sc-020/11 (3 cys)
5.
5C-)20/12 (3 cys)
6.
30-020/13 (3 cys)
8

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
AIRGRAM SENT
Department of State
NO. A-110
Washington,
Sept.17,1947
TIME
1221
1221
AMCONSUL
RANGOON (BURMA)
The following from Civil Censorship Detachment
"CIS MIS GHQ-SCAP (JP/TOP/PPB/9656) dated August 7, 1947
may be of interest:
ARMED FORCES, FOREIGN:
FORMER JAPANESE ARMY PERSONNEL SAID
HOLDING OUT IN BURMA
YR
"About a regiment of Japanese, former members of the 18th
Div1sion (KIKU CORPS) and the 4th Division (YASU CORPS) are
894.2345C
still holding out in the Paom Mountains, Caroe Area, Burma,
with regimental commander and staff officera as a nuoleus.
They seem to have a stock of arms and food sufficlent to
last about two years, and managed to get in touch with us
now and then. They have not waked from their dream and
insist on fighting until they die."
Examiner's Note: The above was related by Masayoshi IDE.
S
4- chome, Shinnc yama-machi, Kurume, Fukuoka-ken, an
ex-Lieutenant of the now defunct Japanese Army, who was 
recently repatriated from Burma.
LOVETT ACTING
CE
Ana
LOVETT
R
ACTING
Oat
Dist
MEI: XHX ÉDáh1: Jm
FC
9-11-47
grrig
10.47
CONFIDENTIAL
mh

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
CO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
FILE NO.
R ECOR D
COPY
894.20/10-1347
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NTED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE CRIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
DESP.1330 FROM TOKYO
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
--000-
UN1-90

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
FE.
Tokyo, October 13, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
NOVI 1947
No. 1330
Rood.
Oct. 23, 1947
ACTION
FE
SUBJECT:
Reorganization of Agencies Supervising the
Demobilization of Japanese Military and Naval
INFO
Forces.
DCR
AS unc
o nc
FC enc
01010
The Acting Political aoviser has tne honor to enclose
894.20
five copies of a dircctive dated Octcber 4, 1947 (SCaPIN
1791) frum this Headquarters to the Japanese Government
concerning the reorganization of agencies supervising the
demobilization of Japanese military and naval forces.
The directive provides for the transfer of the First
Demouilization Bureau (army) intact to the Jurisdiction
of the Welfare Ministry. In addition the Japanese Gov-
10-
ernment 1e given instructions upon which to base a plan
for the elimination of separate demopilization agencies
and the atsorption of their funetions into the permanent
auministrative atructure of the government. The Second
Demovilization Bureau (navy) is to oe ellninated and,
after previous approval by this Heauquerters, any of its
functions which mey prove to be necessary are to be
turned over to appropriate agencies of the Government.
Dnclosures:
Five copies or GHQ, SCAP dir-
ective, 0ctober 4, 194?.
Original and ozalid to the Departrent.
820
RHBushner:

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
B
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITAN
20 NORTH WACKER
Dyn
OFFICE OF
THE EDITOR
DIVI
NORTHEAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
JAN 1 2 1948
January
7
STATE
1948
JAN 1 2100
DIRECTOR
Department of State
894.20/1
Director,
office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Vashington, . C.
Dear Sir:
The following statements appear in the article JAPAN which was prepared by Mr.
George Atcheson, Jr., last year for our new publication, Ten Eventful Years:
"Demobilization proceeded rapidly through use of Japanese demobilization machinery;
?,576,085 Japanese troops within the home islands were demilitarized by December.
The remainder, totalling 5,852,000, were spread from Manchuria to the Solomons and
across the islands of the Central and Southwest Pacific, as were 1,300,000 navy
personnel.
"0f the remaining 3,147, 000 army and 234,000 navy personnel in overseas areas, al1
were disarmed in southern Korea, the Philippines, Ryukyus, Volcanos, Siam, Malaya,
Borneo, the Celebes and the Lesser Sundas, with some 18,000 remaining armed in
Sumatra and Java. Most of the original 1,542,000 troops in China (exclusive of
Manchuris) and the 165,000 in Formosa were disarmed. (The status of Japanese troops
CS/A
which fell into soviet hands, estimated at 800,o00 remained unknown.)."
and
"The tremendous military organization--approximately 4,000,000 organized and
armed men in the home islands and 2,500,000 abroad--had been liquidated, and
FILED
within another year the approximately..."
As you can see, the totals of the figures in loth sections do not agree and we
are wondering which set of figures is correct and should be used? We would appre-
ciate any comments you might have. Thank you.
Sincerely yours,
Soun v. keodge
John v. Dodge
Agsistant to the Editor
JVD:dfr
vwrt
Cist.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
JAN 28 1948
In reply refer to
Dear Mr. Dodge:
In reply to your letter of Jamuary 7, 1948, inquiring
which set of figures prepared by Kr. Ateheson on Japanese
demobilization ls correct, it would appear that meither
set conforms with the latest information available on this
subject. Aacording to a report submitted to the Allied
Council for Japan by the U.S. Member on Mareh 5, 1947,
all Japanese Armed Forces in the Japanese home islands at
894.20/1-748
the time of surrender or subsequently repatriated had
been demobilized, a total of 6,420, C00 men. S1mee there
were also at that time approximatoly S00,000 unrepatriated
members of the Japanese armed services (mostly in Soviet-
held territory), it would appear that the over-all size
of the Japanese armed services at the time of the surrender
was 6,920,000.
From the accompanying table you will note that at the
close of the war 455,943 Japanese naval personnel and
3,197,425 Japanese army pereonnel were located in overseas
areas. Accordingly, the second set of Mr. Atoheson's
r
fi ures might be revised as follows:
"The tremendous military organization...
approximately 3,270,000 organized and armed
men 1n the home islands and 3,650,000 abroad
...had been liquidated, and within another
year the approximate..."
It is hoped that the foregoing figures, together with
CS/
those set forth in the accompanying table, will prove to
be of use in the compilation of Ten Eventful Years.
A
Sincerely yours,
894.
Enclospre:
W. Walton Butterworth
Table of
Figures.
Mr. John V. Dodgo.
CR
Asslstant to the Editor,
JAN =8 1948
Encyelopaedia Britannica,
20 North Waeker Drive,
ma
Chicago 6, Illinois.
NA:MGreen/hhc
FEP
January 27, 1948.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese Military and Naval Personnel Located Outside
the Japanese Home Islands on August 15, 1945. (Based
on Japanese Offieial Figures Published in JiJi Nenkan,
1947.)
Aree
Navy
Army
Total
Karafuto, Kuriles
10,000
62,000
72,000
Manchuria, Korea
16,000
954,000
970,000
China, Hainan
67,930
1,173,000
1,240,930
Ryukyu, Ogasawara
19,823
58,393
78,216
(Volcano) Nanto,
Daito Ielands
Formosa
35,000
200,000
235,000
rhil1prines
62,000
51,000
113,000
French Indo-China
5,030
54,221
59,251
1am
.1,130
82,500
83,630
Malaya
29,740
105,484
135,224
Burma, Andamans,
1,730
16,750
18,480
Nicobars
Dutch East Indies
(except New Guinea)
54,061
181,587
235,648
Marshalls, Marianas,
51,437
61,569
113,006
Carolines
New Guinea, New
81,500
147,000
228,500
Britain, New
Ireland, Admiralty,
Nauru & Ocean
Islands
Australia
20,562
49,921
70,483
Total
455,943
3,197,425
3,653,368

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.93)
18
ENCYCLOPAEDIABRITANNICA
Office of the Editor: 20 NORTH WACKER DRIVE • CHICAGO 6
1G
fee
January
30
fice 01
1948
FASTERN AFFI
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
894.20
Thank you very much for your letter of Jamuary 28
with the latest information concerning Japan's
armed forces.
Your assistance in this matter is greatly appreciated?
Sincerely yours,
Oun V. Kooze
John V. Dodge
Assistant to the Editor
JVD:dfr

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.92)
In reply refer to
March 26, 1948
丽A
RESTRICTED
894.20/3-2348
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SEGRETARY GENERAL
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In accordance with a memorandum dated Mareh 2s,
1948, from the State-Army-Navy-Air Feree Goerdinating
Committee, there is enelesed a sertified copy of Di-
reotive, Serial No. 89, to the Supreme Commander fer
the Allied Powers regarding Prohibition of Military
Activity in Japan and Disposition of the Japanese
Commission under the provisione of paragraph III, 4,
of its Terms of Referenee.
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
CS/V
VE
Enelosure:
Copy No. 1 (certified)
894.20
of Direotive to SCAP.
Berial No. 09.
MAR 24 1945 7
CR/21<
m 202
aeD
0
NA:ALDunning/ggg
E
A
3-234
3/24/48
0.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
2
RESTRICTED
COPY'NO.
Serial No. 89
17 March 1948
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
PROHIBITION
OF
MILITARY ACTIVITY IN JAPAN AND
DISPOSITION
OF
THE
JAPANESE MILITARY EQUIPMENT
The following directive, Serial Number 89, prepared by
the State Department to implement the policy adopted by the
Far Eastern Commission on February 12, 1948, under the pro-
visions of Paragraph II, A, 1, of its terms of reference, has
been received from the State, Army, Navy, and Air Force De-
partments for transmission to you for your guidance in accord-
ance with Paragraph III, 1, of those terms of reference:
Preamble
"In accordance with Paragraph 1, Part III of the basic
post-surrender policy for Japan (FEC-O14/9), adopted
unanimously by the Far Eastern Commission on 19 June 1947,
which states, 'disarmament and demilitarization are the
initial tasks of the military occupation and shall be
carried out promptly and with determination,' the Far Eastern
Commission approves the following policy decision on the
prohibition of military activity in Japan and disposition
of the Japanese military equipment.
"1. a. For the purposes of this document, the term
'military' is defined to mean 'Military, Naval, and Air'.
except where the context otherwise requires.
b. For the purpose of this doxument 'Japanese Armed
Forces' are defined to be all Japanese land, sea and Air
Forces; Japanese military and para-military organiza-
tions, formations and units; gendarmeric and secret
military police and their organized Japanose auxiliaries;

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
together with the administrative organs of the Armed
Forces mentioned above.
c. 'Japanesc Military equipment' is defined as:
(1) All arms, ammunition, explosives, military
cquipment, stores and supplies and other implements
of wer of all kinds and any equipment, or other property
whatsoever belonging to, used by, or intended for use
by Japanese Armed Forces and Japanese-controlled armed
forces or any members thereof.
(2) Naval combatant and auxiliary vessels and craft
of all kinds, both surface and submarine, including
those under repair, alteration, remodeling, recon-
struction or construction, as well as those which were
reconstructed for military purposes.
(3) All aircraft of all kinds, both military and
civilian, aviation and anti-aircraft cquipment and
dovices.
(4) All military, naval and Air installations and
establishnents, including, airfields, landing grounds
and strips, seaplane bases, naval bases, military
equipment of harbors, establishments engaged in
military research, military storage depots, includ-
underground dcpots, all equipment and facilities
primarily used for military cormunication and trans-
port, pernanent and tenporary land and coast fortifi-
cation fortresses and other fortificd areas, together
with plans and drawings of all such fortifications,
installations and cstablishnents.
(5) Proving grounds and laboratories, all technical
data, patents, plans, inventions and laboratory samples
of weapons and neans of war, including those which may
be or have been under study, in the process of manu-
facture, finished or patented.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
"2. Possession of arms, ammunition and implements of
war by any Japanese should be prohibited save that the
Supreme Commander may authorizc the use:
a. By Japanese Civil Police agencics for the purpose
of maintaining law and order of rifles and pistols and
the necessary ammunition for them and other small arms
cxclusively used by civil police.
b. By licensed hunters of duly registered hunting
weapons.
"3. The development, manufacture, importation and ex-
portation of arms, armunition and implements of war, and
materials intended for military usc should be prohibited
for Japan, except for the importation of no more than the
quantities of arms and ammunition necessary for the pur-
poses mentioned in paragraph 2.
"4. The manufacture of aircraft of all kinds should be
prohibited in Japan.
"5. The construetion of any naval combatant and auxiliary
vessel or craft, the conversion of any conmercial vessel or
craft to military purposes, and the reconstruction or
remodeling of commcrcial vessels or craft so as to render
them more suitable for military purposes should be pro-
hibited.
"6. Military equipment scized fron the former Japanose
Arned Forces or fron nembers of the Japanese civil populace
should after cxanination be destroyed or scrapped except for:
2. Military cquipment required for operational needs
of the occupation forccs or for the lawful activities
of the Japanesc Civil Police.
b. Items convertible to peacetime civilian uses; such
equipment may be drawn upon for:
(1) The maintenance and subsistence of the occup-
tion forces, prisoners of war, and nationals of members of
the United Nations;
RESTRICTED

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
8
RESTRICTED
(2) The relief of the local civil population to the
extent necessary to prevent or alleviate epidemic or
serious disease and serious unrest which would endanger
the occupying forces and the objectives of the occu-
pation:
(3) Reparations, including such military equipment
as:
(a) Plant and machinery for shipbuilding and
nautical instruments other than those limited to
purposes
of an cxclusively military nature.
(b)
Diving gear,
(c)
Optical glass,
(a)
Chain and chain cables,
(c)
Machinc tools convertible to peacetime uses,
(r)
Military research facilities
"7. All former United Nations naval craft, equipment, and
facilities found in Japanese possession should be safe-
guarded and as soon as practicable should be delivered to the
nations to which they belong et such points as may be desig-
nated by the Supreme Comminnder for the Allied Powers.
"8. Jepancse disarned navel craft may bc used for the
purpose of repatriation or such other purposes connected
with carrying out the terns of surrender as the Supreme
Commander may direct.
"9. All records of military registration of demobilized
personnel from the Army, Navy, Air Forces, Gendarnerie and
Secret Police should be confiscated and transferred to the
Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers for subsequent de-
struction. No further records of this nature should be com-
piled or maintained by the Japancse.
"10. Reestablishment of the following should be prohibited:
the War and Navy Ministries, the Japanese Inperial High
Command, the Supreme Military Council, the Council of
RESTRICTED
- 4-

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Marshals and Admirals, the Inspectorate of Military Training,
the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters, the Naval
General Headquarters, the Headquarters of Armies and Fleets,
and also any military or para-military organizations, military
academies and schools, military scientific and research
institutions and military laboratories, as well as the
officers corps in any form. Such demobilization agency as
is retained for the purpose of demobilizing returning
Japanese Armed Forces should be of a civilian character and
should be abolished immediately after completion of the
demobilization. The former Japanese demobilization system
involving special privileges of demobilized members of the
Japanese Arned Forces should also be abolished.
"1l. All military and para-military organizations in
Japan, including ex-officers' organizations, together with
their affiliates and the clubs which were used for making
propagande for militarism and ultra-nationalism should be
dissolved and their revival or establishment in any form,
including a disguised form, should be prohibited. The
application of this paragraph should extend also to various
associations created under the guise of production associa-
tions, such as cooporative societies for joint cultivation
of land, for fishing, and others, which are composed wholly
or substantially of ex-officers of the Army and Navy and
Gendarmerie and headed by their former military conmanders.
This paragraph should
apply also to any other associations
composed wholly or substantially of ex-officers of the
Japanese Army and Navy and Gendarmerie, ostensibly created
for legitimate purposes, but which are, in reality, dis-
guised forms of military or para-military organizations, or
which have some other disguised subversive purpose.
"12. Military training of the civilian population and
military instructions in schools should be prohibited.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
"13. For the purpose of prevention of the revival of
Japanese militarism persons who have at one time fallen
within any of the following categories should not be nominated
or employed in the Government service, public office, or
educational institutions except as they may be necessary in
performing duties essential to the demobilization of re-
patriated military and naval personnel.
2. Generals, admirals, and all other senior officers
and all career officcrs of the Army, Navy and Gendarmerie;
b. Other officers of the Army, Navy and Gendarmerie,
including members of the reserve, if their employment
would harn the cause of peace and security; and
c. Officials of ex-officers; and other military and para-
military associations and of bodies closely associated
with the Armed Forces.
"The Suprene Conmander for the Allicd Powers may author-
ize the nonination or employment of a person coming within
categories & and c if his record shows that he has been
an opponent of Japanesc expansionisn and totalitarianism.
"14. All measures neccssary should be undertaken to
prevent any revival of the Japanese Army, Navy, Gendarmerie,

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
OF
Washington,
3/24/48 ALD
AR241948
DCR
MEMORANDUK FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Directive Transmitted to SCAP by the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Reference: SANA-5980 atd 12 Mar 1948.
Enclosed are four copies of Directive, Serial
894.20/3-2348
No. 89, transmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
Suaff. Copy No. 1 is for transmittal to the Far
Eastern Commission, and Copies Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are
for the files of the State Department.
For the Soate-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating
Conmittee:
NW. Moeley
H. W. MOSELEY
Secretary
Enclosure:
Directive, Serial No. 89,
Copies Nos. 1, 2, 3 & 4.
894.201
22
THIS DOCUMENT IS DECLASSIFIED
3.
WHEN ATTAGHMENT IS REMOVED
13-3ADE
clacs e
t
RESTRICTED

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
OMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DB
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR19980
RESTR_OTED
4
ContrDEPATRENT OF STATE
ACTION: FE
Rec'd April 8, 1948
INFO:
C3
2:35 p.m.
P
iA
SAM
P1
Office of
EUR
GEA
OCD
CIA
FROM
Mosbow
1948
OIE
C0FCOR
PA
TO
: Secretary of State
lipp ritent o State
DCR
NO
: 634, Apri1 8, 8 p.m.
894.20/4-848
Most papers April 8 oarry one column New York Tass
despatoh oriticizing Jap demilitarization decision
Far East Commission. Article states "In an effort
to hide frow publio opinion attitude Soviet Delegation
and present it in false light, US representative in
FEC .said that Soviet Jaion allegedly abstained
from formal approvel of aecision for reasons of
teohnicai pature... Actually Soviet delegation abstained
21
beosuse of extramely weighty considerations of prinoiple.
Article reviews argumenta ellegedly presented by Soviet
delegation inoluding eppendix re definition smail erms
and mejority support for Soviet proposal delete "after
investigetion". Implies Us voting machinery thwarted
passage Soviet prcposal.
Depertment please pass Tokyo as Moscow's 5.
SMITH
WFS :KC
Passed to Tokyo 2:45 p.m. 4/8/48
APR 16 1948
RESTRICTED
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.88)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
F
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
   f
HOH+
American Mission in Korea,
NO.134
Seoul, larch 10, 1949.
OSTYTOTED
DCR
Suplect: Reported staternt or orean Ferein Minister in
erard to earmarent or Janan
he conoratle
The secretar o otate,
ato..
wir:
av me noner to moort mmat on aree , 19h9, it was
894.20/5-1049
re orted to unis ission tnat bhe orot oreign intster,
olonel en o. i, was peporteo in a press conference held
FE
on the preceding day to nave maoe some renarks witn regard to
x1
the alie ed rearmament or anan. Accoriinr to the report re-
ceived uy this Mission, the Fopei . Mintster was astked the
followin q estion: "at do "ou unink of Japanese rearmament?"
D
to t rorevoin u lestion une orei n nister is reported to
111
ave lae the rollow n reoiy: "The n ted States is probably
rearminy the Japmmese in vie or the attitude or cissia. Our
overrsent is na in a'rron and aking erterts so that korea
XK
wint net pe narmed beeose   amanese rearmament."
in view of tue a ove-e beo statement, an officer of the
ission was a'reete t ca on te ore n inister ane to
Lngtire witn recard to the veracity of the statement attributed
to nin. nere is enelosed in  ir conmection a cony of a
nemorandum or a conversat on nel between the 'oreign inister
ane the ission orticer on arch 9, 19he.
Respectfull, 'oure.
1.2
H
C
Conselor of Mission
Enclosure:
Cop of emoranaum of
Conversation, as stated
Criginal and nectograph to Department
Copy to mbassy, Moscow
Copy to PCLAD, Tokyo
MAR 281949
FTLD
EFDruarient/jeg
RESTRICTED
CMR

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.89)
RESTaICTED
Snclosure No. 1 to Despatcn No. 131: dated arch 10, 1949, from
Anerican ission in norea, eoul.
ADESAT
aren 4, 1949
Subject: Japanese  armarent
Particioants: r. n Line, orean ister of Foreign Affairs
r.. . minolm.irst ecretary
aiseussed privately witn r. imo the statement attributed
to nim on t ue ee or amuse rearmament which he is reported
to nave made at nis russ conterence on the eigntn. The Minister
denied cate cricaliy tnat ne nae made a positive alleration on the
subjeet, and saio tnat rin statement was conditional and preceded
by tre word "ir".
Le insists tnat he a said in substance, "If it is true that
the nited States is roarmin the caoanese, because of the Russian
attitude, the norea. ov rment ill nave to take easures so that
it wi1 not be armed y me rearmament." 1t was a very hypo-
thetical quention, no saia, an oused in such a way as to be
readily soject  mtsiter retatton. Tt was, ne caid, a leading
question.
1 expiained to r. -ime te supstance of the Department's
Lele rams or reuriary 1: ircular) and February 21, 6 p.m. (intel),
so tnat there suo 1   pocte ao to the attitade of the
A erican "over.ment.
Kuniholm/icg
RESTRICTED

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
eessee e!
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FAB GAGTEON AGFANRS
8 1940
18
CONFIDENTIAL
Action: FE
info
SS
Control 2741
P
a
Rec'd August 7, 1949
H
2:14 a.m.
SAM
OLI
(IA
FROM: Ninking
AAN
POS
TO;
Secretary of State
URX
OCR
NO:
1735. Aust 7, 1 p.m.
N. n Enrl1sh-larguage broadcast August 6 states that
PaArthur han approved KMT plan recruit 100,000 Japanese
roope, ha: po-called "anti-Communist Pacific Union"
includes orgarizim "interratlonal volunteers" for
armed Interven: lon In China by :US imperialism and
it: lackeya in Phi:ippines". "Embassy of opinton
894.20/8-7
dontal ry NacArthur, statements reaffirming Depart-
ment's a rituce regarding proposed pact timely.
Sent Depertmont, ropeated OFFEmD Cinton 728.
JONES
ME
totson hasignes to C
Date of Aotion-ANNA
Action Office Symbol
eme of officer.
Liscotion to DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
2
li-
3
ic
王
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
10-5291*-1
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
MEMORANDUM ON
REACTIVATION OF JAPANESE ARMED FORCES
Need for Department Position
At the reguest of the Department of State, the Department of Defense
is actively considering U.S. security requirements in a Japanese peace treaty.
It is contemplated that the position of the Department of Defeuse will first
be formulated under the direction of Under Secretary Voorhees, assisted by
a representative whom General MacArthur has sent to Washington for the pur-
pose, and will then go to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of
Defense for final determination.
In view of the shortness of time before a U.S. draft treaty should be
presented to Secretary Bevin in order to meet the deadline of the meeting
of British Commonwealth nations in January, the Department of State is en-
deavoring to expedite the decisions within the Department of Defense at
every stage by making the position of the Department of State known on
particular issues as soon as feasible.
The first basic issue now apparent on which it is possible that there
may be disagreement between the two Departments concerns the reactivation
of Japanese armed forces. This issue arises on the assumption, which it is
believed will be shared by both Departments, that the peace treaty to be
signed with Japan, with or without the participation of the Soviet Union and
possibly China, will envisage a supplementary agreement, probably bilateral
between the U.S. and Japan, under which, with the termination of the occu-
pation, certain specified naval and air bases in Japan would continue to be
20
garriconed by U.S. security forces for the purpose of ma intaining peace and
security in that area. It is also assuned that adeguate Japanese security
forces for the ma intenance of internal order--a national constabulary in
cluding a coast guard--will be provided for in an greed treaty. It is
further assumed that the overriding objective of the United States in re-
l: tion to the security aspects of the peace treaty is that in the event of
war Japan should be denied to the Soviet Union as a base of operations and
should contribute to military operations against the Soviet Union.
It is convenient to consider the guestion of reactivation of Japanese
armed forces in the form in which it is most likely to be presented within
the Department of Defense for decision. This is the proposal that whereas
the responsibility for all neval and strategic air functions would fall
upon U,S. security forces, Japan should be authorized to maintain ground
forces, probably with tactical air supoort. This view has already been
expressed with considerable determination by certain military officers and
has substantial reasons in its favor from the military standpoint, so that
it is advisable for the Department of State to determine its own position
as soon as possible for the purpose of influencing the decision of the
Department of Defense, if this appears necessary, and of the Government on
this important question. Although the issue discussed in this memorandum
is the narrow one stated above, neverthless it must be recognized that a
decision to reactivate Japanese armed forces will raise collateral questions
concerning the reactivation of Japanese industries supporting these forces
and U.S. aid to assist in maintaining the forces.
Statement of Issues for Determination
It is useful to state the issue of reactivation of Japanese armed forces
(i.e., of Japanese ground forces, probably with tactical air support) in
the form
TOP SECRET

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-2 -
the form of the following alternative positions:
1. Decide now not to reactivate Japanese armed forces. (Under
this alternative the treaty would be silent on this issue and would
presumably provide for the continued demilitariztion and disarmament
of Japan.)
2. Decide now to reactivate Japanese armed forces. (The treaty
would presumably contain restrictions as to strength, equipment, etc.,
of the armed forces allowed Japan.)
3. Decide now to reactivate Japanese armed forces up to agreed
limits at the end of five years, or sooner if a majority of the signa-
tory powers so decide. (The treaty would so provide.)
4. Defer decision on the issue until some future time or times
for review of the security provisions of the treaty, say at the end
of every five years or, should a majority of the signatory pcwers re-
quest a conference for the purpose, at any intervening time. (The
treaty would provide for review of the security clauses in the manner
indicated and would contain no reference wnatever to reactivation of
Jananese armed forces.)
Recdnmended Position and Supporting Reasons
It is recommended th t the Department endorse alternative 4 above, i.e.,
to defer a decision on the reactivation of Japanese armed forces until a
future time or times when a review is made of the entire security situation
in relation to Japan.
Merits of Reactivation
The reasons given in favor of reactivation of Japanese armed forces are pri-
marily military in nature. It is argued that for the purpose of defending Japan
against a Soviet armed attack, Japanese armed forces, supported by a tactical
air force, would be extremely useful--for example, in resisting amphibious land-
ings on Japanese shores. It is further argued that should armed conflict be-
tween the United States and the Soviet Union break out in Europe, the heavy
requirements of U.S. forces in the European theater would be more easily satis-
fied if the United States were relieved by Japan of the responsibility for
ground force and tactical air force functions in Japan; this aspect of the re-
activation of Japanese armed forces would also be consistent with the overall
strategy of the United States of concentrating its power in Europe and maintaining
minimum strength in the Far East. It is further reasoned that such a reactivation
of Japenese armed forces would not provide Japan with the capacity for aggression
against the other allied powers inasmuch as Japan would not have any navy or
strategic air force with which to carry offensive blows to other nations. So far
as expense is concerned, it is said that the Japanese soldier is one of the least
expensive soldiers in the world to maintain. So far as the renunciation of war
and armed forces in the Japanese Constitution is concerned, it is said that this
was largely an American idea adopted by the Japanese in the comfortable security
provided by the United States occupation.
General MacArthur, in the latest expression of his views on this subject,
opposes the reactivation of Japanese armed forces on the ground that the primary
objective is the prevention of war rather than measures of military defense against
an actual armed attack, especially at a time when war does not appear imminent;
and that this can be achieved through the presence of U.S. garrison forces in Japan
and a U.S. foreign policy that makes unmistakably clear to the Soviet Union that
an armed attack against Japan means all-out war. It is his position that
reactivation
TOP SECRET

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-3 -
reactivation of Japanese armed forces (1) involves an expense which the Japanese
could not and the Ünited States would not willingly in peacetime afford and the
expense would be for Japanese forces that would not be capable of defending Japan
against a determined Soviet attack, and (2) that such a sudden break with the
present Japanese Constitution and U.S. occupation policies would cast serious
doubts among the Japanese concerning the sincerity of U.S. purposes and the ob-
jectives of the occupation
In eodition to the reasons advanced by General MacArthur, there are the
following reasons against reactivation of Japanese armed forces at this time:
a. The question of reactivation of Japanese armed forces cannot
be decided without relation to assurances that these forces would be
used on behalf of and not against the security of the United States.
The military usefulnessto the U.S. of Japanese armed forces assumes a
Japen which is friendly toward the United States, or at least not hostile.
Should Japan become hostile to the U.S., any armed forces and war sup-
porting industry in Japan would tremendously increase the war potential of
the Soviet Union and Coamunist China.
b. Nor can rearmament of Japan be considered without relation to
the determination of the Japanese to continue or abandon the renunciation
in their constitution of war and armed forces. It is significant that
to date no strong pressures have developed within Japan in favor of
abandonment. On the contrary there appears to be considerable sentiment
that the future of Japan lies in continued demilitarization. A peace
treaty providing for rearmament would, therefore, appear to impose upon
the Japanese people the necessity of maintaining local ground and air
force to supplement the strategic military interests of the United States.
c. Reactivation of Janan's armed forces up to specific limits
would reguire the continuation of U.S. and. probably allied controls, such
as inspection. In the absence cf Japanese armed forces no such controls
would appear to be necessary. These controls would cause irritation and
diminish the benefits to be gained from granting to Japen an egual and
independent status in the treaty.
d. A proposal to rearm Japan would probably be viewed with alarm
by Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and other Allied powers that
continue to fear a renascent nationalistic and aggressive Japan. It is
preferable to retain the full support of the other Allied powers for our
policy in Japan. Should it become necessary to strengthen our forces in
Europe at the expense of our forces in Japan, the security arrangements
should be sufficiently flexible that the U.S. can call upon our Allies
in the Pacific to assist in supplying the deficit.
e. Reactivation of Japanese armed forces at this time--thus placing
Japan in a position not unlike a military ally-would tend to destroy
the credibility of the argument that the retention of United States
security forces in Japan is an arrangement in which the United States is
acting on behalf of the other signatory powers until such time as the
United Nations is able to assume full responsibility for the maintenance
of peace and security with respect to Japan.
While this memorandum does not for the above reasons recommend a position in
favor of reactivation, neither does it recommend that the United States should
now decide against ever reactivating Japanese armed forces. Should the political
considerations appear favcrable at some future time for reactivation, the ad
ventages to our security demend that the possibility of reactivation should not
be foreclosed
TOP SECRET

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-4-
be foreclosed through any present decision. There appears to be no need for such
a decision at this time, and if pressure arises for making such a decision, it
should be resisted.
Timing of Reactivation
A decision now that Japanese armed forces shall be reactivated at a future
time, say at the end of five years or such earlier time as a majority of the
signatory powers might in a future conference determine (alternative 3) has an
edvantege over a decision in favor of immediate reactivation in that it provides
for a more gradual transition from demilitarization to rearmament in Japan.
Presumably also, a provision to this effect in the peace treaty would make the
future rearmament of Japan conditional on the desire of the Japanese people at
that time to amend their constitution. It would further give the Allied Powers
some time in which to adjust to the anticipated rearmament.
Moreover it is said in favor of alternetive 3 that deferral of the entire
question of rearmament to a future decision of the Allied powers (alternative 4)
nds to leave the United States committed to bearing indefinitely the sole re-
nsibility for the maintenance of peace in respect of Japan. From the stand-
nt of the other Allied Povers friendly to the United States, it may be true
hat the ideal solution of the security problem in Japan is the retention of U.S.
garrison forces on bases in a disarmed Japan. In such a situation the Allies
need have no fear of renewed Japanese agression and need not share the responsi-
bility for the maintenance of peace and security in the area of Japan. This
being the case, it is reasoned that unlessa present decision is made to reacti-
vate Japanese armed forces at some future time, the other Allied Powers will have
no interest in such reactivation and will continue to resist it.
However, alternative 4 provides no assurance of a friendly Japan as a
condition precedent to rearming Japen and therefore does not adecuately protect
U.S. security. Moreover, adeguate provision can be mede in the treaty in order
to avoid a situation in which the United States is indefinitely committed to
retain United States security forces in Japan. Thus the treaty might make the
continuance of such forces in Japan after a stated period, sey ten or twenty
years, dependent upon the continued assent of the United States and might pro-
vide that the other Allied Powers will assist the United Stotes on its reguest
in the maintenance of adequate security forces in Japan.
The preferable alternative in the light of the above considerations is to
provide in the treaty for the continued demilitarization of Japan but to provide
elso that the security clauses in the treety shall be reviewed at the end of
every five years, or at any intervening time if a majority of the signatory
powers request a conference for the purpose. Such a review would cover the
entire security problem including the question of withdrawal or reduction in
size of United Stetes security forces and the reactivation of Japanese armed
forces and Japanese war supporting industries in phase therewith. A decision
at that time could be made on the basis of further experience concerning Japan's
continued friendliness and concerning the durability of Japan's desire to re-
main demilitarized.
S:JBHoward:bh
11/7/49
TOP SECRET

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
>
TOP SORET
UNITED STATES MISSION TO THE UNITED NAFIONS.
CF
CUPIES
November 14, 1949
2 PARK AVENUE
New York 10. N.Y.
Files
Central
MURRAY IHIL.L. 3 6810
894.20/11-1449
Dear John:
I am answering your memorandum of November l0th on the re-
activation of Japanese armed forces by this personal letter rather
than by a formal memorandum because I have not had time to study
the problem sufficiently to state a firm view.
My general reaction is strongly against the reactivation
of Japanese armed forces. The various reasons set forth in the
memoranda you sent me against such reactivation seem to me to be
much stronger than those in favor of it. I am impressed by the
fact that both General MacArthur and the JCS in their views expressed
in NSC 49 took what seems to me to be the sound position that our
interests and security require us to win Japan to our way of thinxing.
I have not studied all of the military opinions, but I agree vehe-
mently with General MacArthur's view "that the primary objective is
the prevention of war rather than measures of military defense
against an actual armed attack." It seems to me that we are not
anywhere in the world determining our political policy on the theory
that war is imminent, although we do proceed on the theory that it
is by no means impossible and that we must take proper precautions.
The difference between these two approaches seems to me to be vast.
Any remilitarization of Japan would seem to me to have such
adverse reactions throughout the Pacific area as to make this course
unwise unless we were unfortumately driven to the conclusion that
war is imminent and that we must be in a posture of ready defense
against attack. I do not believe we have reached that conclusion.
moreover, as noted in some of the memoranda, the effect of such a
decision with its implications would have violent repercussions
in Europe where we know with what fear the Western European nations
would regard the rearming of Germany.
The problem
The Honorable John Howard,
Department of State.
319220

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
POPECPET
-2-
The problem of retention of United States security forces in
Japan seems to me less clear. If this can be done on the request of
Japan and on behalf of the United Nations, its political effects might
not be injurious, but I do not feel confident that this would be the
case. Would the retention of rights to bases in Japan necessarily
require the presence of American forces there? I do not know what the
comparable situation is in the Philippines. What size forces do we
maintain there at our bases? What information do we have regarding
the maintenance of Russian forces in Port Arthur and Dairen? This
information would be important in meeting the inevitable Soviet attacks.
Have we explored every variation of formulas suggested in other
connections whereby we would be entitled to act on the vote of any
seven members of the Security Council?
Approaching this whole problem with an ignorance of the details
of military thinking, I am forced to wonder just how clear and per-
manent are the military views which call for Japanese bases. my
recollection is at the close of the war there was a most insistent
demand by the Navy for a number of bases in the Philippines which not
very much later they decided they did not want and wished to give up.
I understand there have been fluctuations in the views of the three
services concerning the importance and usefulness of retaining Okinawa
as a base. I gather at times, when bases are under discussion, people
talk about having them in their own firm possession while at other
times they talk merely about denying them to some hostile power.
From the over-all point of view, I believe that our real strength
lies in the attitude of various Asiatic countries toward the United
States, particularly as that attitude would reveal itself in time of
war. I have frequently been struck by the contrast between the kind
of local approval and support we had in Panama and the Philippines
and the corresponding lack of help and support which the British had
in Singapore and the Dutch in Java to take only two examples. If the
insistence on United States bases in Japan created suspicion of our
intentions and undermined all of the general building up of our attitude
in the area, I wonder whether the base would be worthwhile. Again I
say I don't know enough about the military planning to know precisely
what role a base in Japan would play in case of the outbreak of war.
I shall be in the Department Wednesday and hope to have an
opportunity to discuss this matter with you, if that is not too late.
Sincerely yours,
Ghi1
Philip C. Jessup

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
005635
MEMORANDUM
ok se.
To
The Secretery
November 15, 1949
s/s as
From
FE - Mr. Butterworth
G
S - Mr. Howard
jiles
Central
RX/R
Thin Document Must Do Returned to
Subject: Reactivation of Japanese Armed Forces
Policy decision to be made
894.20/11-1549
The policy decision to be made is whether to advise the
Department of Defense now of the views of the Secretary of State
concerning some of the reasons why he does not regard it as
feasible to authorize the reactivation of Japanese armed forces
in the proposed peace treety with Japan.
Discussion
At the request of the Department of State, the Department
of Defense is actively considering U.S. security reguirements
in relation to the proposed Japanese peace treaty. In view of
the shortness of time before a U.S. draft treaty should be
presented to Secretary Bevin in order to meet the deadline of
the meeting of British Commonwealth nations in January, the
Department of State is endeavoring to expedite the decisions
within the Denartment of Defense. It is believed that if the
Secretary of State firmly indicated now, as a guide to the
Department of Defense officials, some of the reasons why he
does not regard it as feasible in the peace treaty to authorize
reactivation of Japanese armed forces, the determination by
the Department of Defense of U.S. security requirements in Japan
in the post-treaty period can be more clearly focussed on such
other issues as the bases and U.S. forces, if any, that need to
be retained in Japan. If on the other hand the Department of
Defense should decide, in the face of the reasons advanced by
the Secretary of State, that the security of the U.S. would re-
quire the authorization of Japanese rearmament in a peace treaty,
then the Secretaries of State and Defense could at once consult
as to whether it is possible to have any peace treaty at this
time.
General MacArthur has already indicated to the Department
of Defense his strong onposition to the reactivation of Japanese
armed forces. Although his preferred solution of the security
problem in relation to Japan would be the demilitarization and
neutralization of Japan guaranteed by the Big Powers, he recognizes
that this solution would not be acceptable to the United States
so long as the word of the Soviet Union can not be relied upon
and he
71
319221
TOP SECHET
122

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-2-
and he therefore endorses the retention in the post-treaty
period of U.S. bases in Japan and limited U.S. forces to man
andprotect them.
Nevertheless, there are strong supporters among officials
of the Department of Defense for Japan's rearmament and a paper
prepared at the working levels recomnended that the peace treaty
authorize the reactivation of Japanese armed forces. The problem
has not yet reached the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary
of Defense. Underlying almost all the reasons given by the
military planners for rearming Japan is the strategic concept
that Janan must be defended by armed force, if necessary, to
prevent its falling into the Soviet orbit. If the peace treaty
does not authorize Japanese armed forces, it is reasoned that
the above strategic concept would require the retention in Japan
of a disproportionately large share of U.S. armed forces for the
purpose of defending Japan, whereas reactivation of Japanese
71
armed forces would permit withdrawal of some U.S. forces from
Japan without basically altering our security position in the
Pacific and would be a valuable and perhaps indispensable asset
in the event of all-out war. It is further reasoned that once
a peace treaty comes into force the pressure of U.S. public
opinion to bring American boys back home and let the Japanese
defend Japan, coupled with military emphasis on the European
theater, would make a reduction in U.S. forces in Japan below
the safety margin from the security standpoint almost inevitable.
It is further reasoned that because of the time that is re-
quired to train Japanese armed forces, postponement of their
reactivation would only result in further delay which the United
States cannot risk
It is noteworthy that the reactivation of Japanese armed
forces, for which there is strong support among military officers
in the Department of Defense, would be diametrically opposite
to the views expressed by the J0S in NSC 49 "there should be
prior assurance of Japan's economic, psychological, and political
stability, and of her democracy and western orientation" before
the peace negotiations are undertaken. Whereas the Departnent
of Ste te belleves thet the conclusion of a peace treaty will
work in favor of Japan's pro-Western orientation, it believes
that the safeguerd referred to by the Jos is important before
authorizing Japen to have armed forces. A proposal for present
reactivation of Japanese armed forces would completely ignore
the safeguard referred to by the JCS.
Recommendation
That the Secretary approve the informal submission of the
attached paper to the Department of Defense officials as an
indication
TOP SECRET

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
-3-
indication of his views on the issue of the authorization of
Japanese armed forces in the peace treaty.
Cleared by
Cleared by
S:JBHoward:bh
Mr. Jessup
Mr. Davies
S/A
S/P
G
AR
TOP SLOAE

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
POSITION OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE ON
REACTIVATICN OF JAPANESE ARMED FORCES
The purpose of this memorandum is to provide the Department of Defense.
for the purpose of facilitating their determination of U.S. security re-
quirements in Japan in the period following the proposed peace treaty, with
some of the reasons why the Department of State does not regard it as
feasible in the treaty to authorize reactivation of Japanese armed forces.
It is assumed (a) that a treaty of peace with Japan should be entered
into promptly, provided that U.S. security can be adequately provided for;
(b) that Janan should be permitted to maintain a well equipped constabulary,
including a coast guard, for the purpose of preserving internel order;
and (c) that the Department of Defense may determine as a result of its
study that U.S. security requires the retention of U.S. bases and U.S.
armed forces in Japan in the immediate post-treaty period.
The position of the Department of State is that, for political reasons,
it is not feasible in the treaty of peace to authorize the reactivation of
Jananese armed forces. No decision should be made now in favor of reacti-
vation of Japan's armed forces, either now or at a future time designated
now. At the same time the United States should not foreclose by a present
decision the possible reactivation of Japanese armed forces at some future
time when this course might appear to be in our best interests.
Accordingly it is thought that, in the absence of a possible United
Nations formula for this security problem, the treaty of peace should en-
visage the continued demilitarization of Japan but should provide for a
general review of the security clauses of the treaty by the signatory
powers at a time or times in the future to be flexibly determined. In
practical imnlementation of this provision, the security arrangements could
be subjected to continuous reappraisal by the representatives of the signa-
tory powers in the light of changing conditions in Japan and elsewhere so
that a review conference of the signatory powers could be promptly called
whenever circumstances might warrant. Although the provision for review
would not refer specifically to the question of Japanese rearmament, when
such a review were made the possibility of reactivation of Japan's armed
forces in partial substitution for, or in conjunction with a withdrawal
of, U.S. security forces could be explored.
The principal reasons for this position are as follows:
1. The primary objective of the United States in relation
to the security aspects of a Japanese peace treaty under present
conditions of a cold war is the prevention of the outbreak of
war rather than measures of military defense against actual armed
attack by the Soviet Union. Prevention can be best achieved in
the immediate
TOP SECRET

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
- 2 -
the immediate post-treaty period, in the absence of a possible
United Nations formula, through the presence of U.S. forces in
Japan on behalf of the signatory powers and at Japan's request
as evidence of U.S. determination to regard an armed attack against
Japan as provocation to an all-out wer.
2. U.S. aid and the efforts and resources of Japan should be
concentrated, on the one hand, upon the accomplishment of the ob-
jective in paragraph 1 and the maintenance of a strong Japanese
constabulary and, on the other hand, upon the achievement of eco-
nomic and social progress which in the long run will greatly influence
the continued orientation of Janan toward the United States. This
balance would be upset by the premature diversion of aid, efforts
and resources to the maintenance of a Japanese military establishment.
3. A decision to rearm Japan should not be made without re-
lation to the determination of the Jananese to contimue or abandon
the renunciation of war and ermed forces in their Constitution. It
is significant that to date no strong pressures have developed within
Japan in favor of abandonment. Authorization of rearmament in the
peace treaty without the expressed will of the Japanese through vol-
untary amendment of their Constitution would appear to be imposed
upon the Japanese for the purpose of promoting the strategic military
interests of the United States.
4. A decision to r activate Jananese ermed forces should not
be made without more adequate assurances than are now present that
Japan will continue to be friendly, or at least not hostile, toward
the United States. Should Japan become hostile, any armed forces
and war supporting industry in Japan would, if made available for
use against the United States, greatly augment the war potential of
the Soviet Union and Communist China.
5. A present proposal for the reactivation of Jananese armed
forces either now or in the future would constitute a sharp break
with Janan's renunciation of wer and armed forces and with U.S.
cccuootion policies. The result might be to cast serious doubts
among the Japanese concerning the sincerit: of U.S. purposes and
the validity of the objectives of the occupation, thereby weakening
U.S. influence and the influence of democratic principles in
Japan, both of which are necessary to offset connunist influence
in Japan.
6. A proposal to rearn Jaoan would probably be viewed with
alarm by Australia, New Ze: land, the Philippines and other Allied
powers
TOP SECRET

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
A
-3-
powers that continue to fear a renascent nationalistic and ag-
gressive Japan. It is also likely that the attitude of France
and certain other European powers toward the peace treaty would
take into account its possible affect as a precedent for the
reactivetion of Germany's armed forces. It is preferable to
retain the full support and cooperation of the other Allied
powers friendly to the United States as well as the moral end
psychological advantages that would derive from the position that
U.S. security forces are being maintained in Japan on behelf of
the other signatory powers in the absence of the United Nations'
assumption of full responsibility for the meintenance of peace
and security with respect to Japan.
Cleared by
Cleared by
S: JBHoward: bh
Mr. Jessup
Mr. Davies
11/16/49
S/A
S/P
TOP SECRET

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.84)
peccal Files
11118
10
: The eorotary
November 15. 1919
seR file
From : i - r. Butterworth
-.Hord
ubjeot: o ctivetion of Joeneee rsod oreu
olicy seci lon to be made
ne velloy ceciclon to be de is wbather to advie the
up rtsent of sfsnee nos of the views of the ecretery of State
conceraine som- of toe ro cone vhy be doue not ragard it as
fusslble to suthorlre tne rosctive tion  t  nese arned forces
in the rocosed eece tre ty with do n.
i-cussion
m
t the reousat of the e rtsent of tete. the oprtent
IC
of efenes is sctivsly conslderine .. vecurity retuirements
in reletlon to the ro os d  saree eace treaty. In vlew of
the phortnses of time before .. srft treety should be
presented to coret ry ovin in order to wet the deadlim of
C
the meetine of ritien osromealth wstioar in Janmery, the
omrtaont of t-te io mdes rine to ex edite the decivlons
ithin the e  rtment of ofenre. it i- belleved thst if the
scretary of trte firmly leaicated nov. o a mulle to the
1
apertment of fonee officisle. o of the rescons wiy he
一
does met resard it ee fe eible in the rmoce tremts to authorize
17
resctiveticm of r unese orred forcee, the detormiestlom by
4.
the eartment of efene of.. cecurit reroiromente in Jucen
in the post-tresty arled con to more cleerly focucced on much
otler lemees se the wrese ad .. forces. it pay. thst meed to
be ret ined in Jeno.  a the ther hand the euertment of
efesee should decide, in te f ce of the rinsons edvenced by
the eer tery of t te. to t te coourit of the . woold re-
cuire the cuthorix tion of  pem ee rorrmeeent in a ceece treaty.
then the Secreturiee of t te and ofense could et once coneult
C
se to whether it io weeeible t h ve eny cesce tresty at this
tiao.
seperal acartbur bus already lodie ted to the erertmont
of efonee hie strone omexition to tho ronctiv tlon of Jenamese
reed forces. Ithoush his referred rel ation of the seeurity
problem in relstion to  an vculd be the esiliterizetiom 
7
neutrellestlon of   en guerent ed by the sie overs, he recpgnizes 
C
that thir rolutiom vould mot be acce tab: to the nited stse
J
o lone as the word of the oviet  nion cn not te ralled wo
and he
061567

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.88)
TOP SEOST
- 2-
end he therofore andorses the retentiom in the port-treaty
peried of U.. bsees in Jeam end limited .. forces to m
und protect tihom.
devertheleme, there re strons pup orters amoms offielule
of the o rtent of sfen for Je an's resrsecent and  pper
res red at the svorking lavaie rocossended tht the pesce treaty
suthorire the rouctivetion cf nsen  rsed foroes. The problem
hsp mot yet renched the Joint ninfe f  taff  ad the Sooretary
of fense. nderlyine wlmort al! ths rensons given by the
military lannore for ro rsins sosn i" the stretegie concept
tst ve an must be defended by areed foroe, if neceesary. to
prevent it felline into the oviet crbit. If the veaos treaty
doee not suthorize s smate  reed forces. it l= ressoned thet
the ebove -trategic conce t vpuld remire the retentiom in Japan
of a dieproportionetely lorge are ef .. rmed forcee for the
pur pse of defendine Junwm. woorese renctiv tion of Jepenese
arued forces souls ralt sithdrawel of some.. forcee from
Snpen vithout boeically ul tering our seourity porltion in the
acifie nd ule be  v lurble en rhss indleceneable eseet
la the erent of ell-out ar. it i- forther ro soned thet once
a peace treaty comse inte foree the rsepure of .. public
onimiom to brine nvericon boy" beck home nmd Tut the Jepamese
defead Japem. connled vith allltzry emrhesi- on the European
thester. would make & roduction in .. forcee in Jecan below
the sefety merein from the security standonint *lmost inevitable.
It is further rer sonsd thet beeauee of the time thst is re-
quired to truin Ja an re armed forces. coetponement of their
reactivetios vould omly result in further deley which the mited
tates nnot riek.
It i- motoworthy thust the resotivstlon  Je aneme armed
forces. for which there is trons sup ort wong wilitery officere
in the portmnt of eafonse. voul be dimtrically opposite
to the viewe ex ressed by the Jo in   le there stoule be
orior ensurence of  n' ecomomic. yctolegical. end political
"tabillty. and of ber desoeracy and vestera oriontatlon" before
Lie: eace megoti tione re uederte en. hren the rtment
of tate belleves tht the conelusion of & cace treaty will
ork ia favor of Jn's ro- eetern orlenttion, it belioves
tit the mafeguare referred to by the  i luportunt before
uthorising Je en te heve rmed forees. rosoeal for present
resctivetion of Jepamese sreed foroes vould comeletely igmore
the safegard referred to by the J
acomendation
not the scretury e rove the inforsal submiseiom of the
ti ched arer to the erurtment of efenee officisle me an
indiontion
LORET

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.80)
-3-
indichtion of mis vieve on the Issue of the suthorizatiom of
Jayenese ormed forcer in the eece treaty.
 eared by
JFoourrd:b
ir. vies
3/

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SECRET
TT
REACTIVATICN OF JAPAGE ARALD YOHGKS
o purpose of this momorandum is to provide the lepertment of Defenss.
for the purpore of fucilitating their determimetion of U.S. smourity re-
culrements in J pen in the period following the propossd peace treaty vith
come of the reamons why the Lon rtment of Stete does not regerd it as
femsible ia the treaty to muthorize reactivation of Jenaness armed forees.
It is assumed (s) thet & tresty of peace with Japan should be entered
into promptly, provided thet l.S. security cen be sdequstely provided for;
(t) that Ja en should be permitted to maintein a wel) equipoed conatabulary.
including e coast suerd, for the purpoge of preserving internel order;
en (c) thet the Lepertment of efense may determine ss & result of its
study that D.s. security reouires the retention of .. beses end U.s.
armed forces in Jeven in the imaadi te post-treaty eriod.
he osition of the emrtment of t te io that. for political remsons.
it is mot feasible in the treety of peace to sutborize the reectivation of
Ja xnese . rmed forces. No decision srould be made nov in fevor of remcti-
votion of Japan's armed forces. either now or t  future tice designated
now. at the sume time the nited t tes should not forecloce by e present
decision the voesible resctiv tion of J  nese rmed forces et some future
tlise when this course might an ar to be in cur heet interests.
ccordinely it 1: thovent that. in the sbeence f  nossible United
 llons formale for this security roblem. the treaty of ceace should en-
visse the continued demilitarization of Ja en but should provide for a
tenerel review of the seourity clsuses of the treaty by the signatory
powers st c time or times in the future to le flexibly determined. In
practical imolementction of this rovicion. the sucurity crrangemente could
be subjected to contimoue reaporaisl by the reuresent tivee of the signe-
tory powers in the light of chenein conditions in Ja an end elsewhere so
the t : review conference of the sien tory povere could be promptly called
whenever ciroumstances might werrent. althoush the rovision for review
would mot refer specifically to the cuectien of Je nese rearmement. when
such c review were made the poseibility of rerctivation of Japsn's armed
forces in partial substitution for. or in conjunction vith a withdrevel
of. v.S. cecurity forces could be explored.
The priacipal recsons for thie osition  re se follove:
l. The primary objective of the mited t tes in relation
to the security aspects of : Japanese peace treety under present
conditioms of e cold r is the prevention of the outbreak of
var rether then meosures of militery dofen speinet ectual rmed
ttack by the Soviet nlon. revention can be best schieved in
the immedirte

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-2 -
the immediate post-treaty period, in the absencs of a possible
United Netions formula, through the presence of U.S. forces in
Japan on behalf of the signatory powers and at Japan's request
as evidence of U.S. determination to regerd an armed attack against
Japan as provocation to an all-out war.
2. 0.S. aid and the efforts and resources of Japan should be
concentrated, on the one hand, upon the accomolishment of the ob-
jective in paragraph 1 and the maintenance of a strong Japanese
constabulary and, on the other hand, upon the achievement of eco-
nomic end socisl progress which in the long run will greatly influence
the contimued orientation of Japan toward the United States. This
balance would be upset by the oremature diversion of aid, efforts
and resources to the maintenance of a Japenese military establishment.
3. A decision to rearm Javan should not be made without re-
lation to the determination of the Japanese to continue or abandon
the remunci tion of wer and armed forces in their Constitution. It
is significant that to date no strong pressures heve developed within
Japan in favor of absndonment. Authorization of rearmament in the
peace treaty without the exoressed vill of the Japanese through vol-
untary amendment of their Constitution would apoear to be imposed
upon the Jarenese for the ourpose of promoting the strategic military
interests of the United States.
4. A decision to r ectivate Jananese armed forces should not
be made without more adequ te assurances than sre now present that
Japan will contimue to be friendly, or at lesst not hostile. toward
the United States. Should Japan become ho tile, any armed forces
and war supporting industry in Japan would, if made available for
use against the United States. greatly auement the war potential of
the Soviet Union and Communist China.
5.  present proposal for the reactivation of Japenese armed
forces either now or in the future would constitute a sharp break
with Japan's renunci tion of wer and armed forces and with U.S.
occup tion policies. The result might be to cast serious doubts
among the Japanese concerning the sincerit of U.S. purposes and
the validity of the objectives of the occu tion. thereby weakening
U.S. influence and the influence of democratic rinciples in
Japan, both of which re necessary to offset communist influence
in Japan.
6. h proposal to rearm Japan would probably be viewed with
alarm by kustralia. New Ze land, the Philippines and other Allied
powers
TOP SECRET

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP SECRET
-3-
powers that continue to fear a renascent nationalistic and as-
gressive Japan. It is also likely that the attitude of Framoee
and certain other European powers toward the peacs treaty would
take into acoount its possible affect as a precedent for the
reactivation of Germany's armed forces. It is preferable to
retain the full support and cooperation of the other Allied
powers friendly to the United States as well as the moral and
paychological advantages thst would derive from the position that
U.S. security forces sre being maintained in Japan on behalf of
the other signatory powers in the absence of the United Natioms'
aesumption of full responsibility for the meintenance of peace
and mecurity with respect to Japan.
earc
Chered by
S: JBHoward: bb
r。d
ir. Davies
11/16/49
三/12
3/F
TOP SEORET

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
61n
NO.329
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
PUBLIC AFFAE OVERSEAS PRORA STA
OF THE
British Omnwaat See (pe)
RESTRICTED
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
American mbassy, ellington, New
JAN4-1950
December 23, 1949
Subject:
learnanent of Japan
894.20/12-2349
The honorable
3
The Secretary of Stete,
REC 'D
ashington.
DEC 31
Sir:
AÇTION
EUR
I have the no or to transmit & copy of an article
entitled "Beware of . unicn", tppeering in the Decsmter
INFO
22, 1949 issue of the Stindard, described on its must-
894.20/12-2349
DCR
head as "The Official Orgen of the N.Z. Labor Movement".
FE
The trticle, waich is an attack on the tlleged "U.S.
ITP
appeasement Iolicy" towards Janaln, is one of a series
OLI
of weekly comaentaries on world aff irs signed by "Cri-
POS
ticus". The editor of the Standard has on previous oc-
EUR/X
cssions explained thet these articles are not subject
to his review and are not to be taken as expressing the
officitl opinions cither of the puper or of the Labor
Farty. The identity of "Criticus" has nev r been pub-
1×8
licly revetled, but it is understood on good authority
that he is r. W. RosFkG, Lecturer in eonomics et
Canterbury University sollege, Christchurch.
j
While "Criticus" has on previous occasions expressed
& line on foreign affairs which is considerably to the
left of the regular sditorials in the Standard, or in the
Labor Farty's daily, the Soutnern Cross, and in some cases
indistinguishable from that of the Comaunist Farty, thare
is other internel evidenee to suggest that he is not a
consistent talerent of the moscow line. In the present
instunce, he is sxpressing & point of view which is very
widely held in New Zealand and is to be found, albeit in
less extreme form, in some conservative papers. Tne
Christchurch Press, for instance, in an editorial on Nov-
ember 12, 1949, declared:
"Politically, the Stete Department hus regurded
Jupan as a potential ally und bulwark against Com-
munism. at the best, this is an uncertain basis for
military and foreign policy."
Newspapers such as the Press and the New Zeeland Her-
ald (Auckland) ere fully conscious of the danger of asia-
tic communism extending to Japan, and they do not accuse
JAN 13
the U.S. occupation authorities of having alreudy rearmed
FILED FAP
Japan, but they consider that there is & dangerous  ossi-
13.1950
bility that sucin rearmament may be permitted in the future
They are extremely skepticel as to the success of SCP's
efforts at democratizing Japan, end are alarmed at hat
the Herald describes as "unpleasant signs of reaction -
the formation of something very like the old secret pol-
ice and the rapid decay of academic freedon in the uni-
84th.9111
versities."
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatch no.329, December 23, 1949
Wellington, New Zealand
-2-
versities." The same paper considers that "the old
mercantile and military oligerchy" is egually as men-
acing as Communism."
The value of the "Criticus" article is that it
assembles many of the overseas news reports which have
given rise to this epprehension, although the conclusion
which it draws from these is expressed in more extreme
terns than is to be found in other New Zealand press
comients.
The Far Eastern Affeirs officer of the Department
of External ffeirs, in & conversation with an officer
of the mbassy, reforred to the reported remark of Gen-
eral ichelberger (cited in the attached article) as
being typical of recent statements by American officials
which were giving rise to anxiety in New Zealand as to
Whether the United States intends to keep Jupan disarmed.
The eeneral feeling on this subjeet in New Zealand
is well summed up by the vening Ster (Dunedin), which
declared on November 23 that "the Western world has not
yet accepted the principle that Japan should be developed
as a bulwark against the Communistic advance."
Respectfully yours,
Robert . Scotten
nclosure: all.
Copy of article appearing in the Standard
(Labor weekly, Vellington) of December 22, 1949
File no. 321/350/430
Armistead M. Lee/gh
RESTRICTED
1312)

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
Enolosure to Despatch no. 329.
23, 1949, Wellington, Now Zeala
titled: N.Z. APPREHENSIONS OVER 2
IBLE REARMAMENT OF JAPAN. SOUPOG:
ard (Wellington) December 22, 1949
BEWARK OF MUNICH
There exist uanaerous trends at the present time to
& repetition of the fatal istaks of the policy of Munich
1l yetrs ueo. Munich vas the climux of a poliey which
tried to appease Sermany. Italy (and impliedly Japan) with
a view to diverting their agaressive designs Ths uggrss-
sor States. however. double crosued the Munichites and used
their strength in an sttack o. Fritain and France. still
coverned by those responsille for Munich: Neville Chamber-
lain and M. Daladier
The sate policy suams to l suining strength aeain.
Mirst with Poarh to Coput
" Yo, May 23
The United States is istermined to Iush strongly
ahead with plans for the ucanomie re tatilitatien of
Tupan in spite of some doubts und objeetions of the
other allied Powers in the Iucific.
"The authoritiss do not re srd the fulfilment of
United States pluns for Tupan as constituting & dan-
ger to other and craller rtcifie Iowers. since indus-
trial reconstruction und fCs In PaltadanT on 
small seale would be urler Ueited States supervision."
The way how Jepanese :s-pilitarisation is carried out
is similer to the wiy Cer ny ra-armed after the first
war Under t  camo tltge or "fightine striking workers
and communist.' ue weli-raci, purueilitury police
force was built up whieh ws  ood nucleus for hitler's
later reurmument.
"TOKIO, July 13
The available strength of the Japenese police-force
was increased yesterday from 125. 000 to 2: 125, 000. The
National Public Safety Corission crdered that. in case
of emergenoy, 2. 000.000 volunteer firemen of the Fire
Defense Corps should bo mobilised to assist the regu-
lar police.
"The firemen will be empowered to suppress riots, er-
rest criminals, control traffic and suppress orime in
an energenoy."
The result or. the growth of the police foree under a
right-wing Government must be as has always been the case
in the past - a definite swing towards aggressive Fasoism:
"LONDON, October 25.
American policy in Japan has now beoome simply an
attempt to conciliats the Japanese in every way, in
the

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.83)
Enblosure to Despatch no.329, Deo.23, 1949,Wel11
New Zealand.
the hope that in any rut ir. war they will not side
with the enemis of the ite tates," seys the
Tokio correspondent f 'The Tiles
"Corruption is nou flourishing on a cigantic
scale, and tliere cre indications that the Jtpanese
cre fully prepsr to sttrt tcuin the unfuir prac-
tices by which they drove roreign competition cut of
Jupan before tht ter I pite or daniale by the
pse covernt. it
i  fuet that the weoret
police have Lean re rtebliehe  el huve been operat.
ing sine lust wcril
ir co
vn     ut 
or o muni  
t ria rul
rousincly cocscious that
rice wants to ro
orde f fcutenant
ll 
 five
villn Jr  v 
o womder 
 ri tws rri
Mihlster is tattim more ca okee veer aop
" r 13
thp       to 
  s trout is in
feet  treaty ve co probolly .stort our rights. In
a cass where   te. breuty i roe uufaverable. it
ts ceroly a cut of vf we conferenee or of
net conelmle te
and ulthou  lou  yelled te retract
the woras guoted atove lhs te t cable dutes fokio,
Roventer 23.
"a rouce trouty sispeur  uhe vish s of the eup
anese eople is unthinkhi t sause such a treaty is
bound oncs more to disturt  : orld order "
.s. trpeasenont yoliey sey te it t at the wishes -
Lot of the Japanese people ba t the tupanese ex-wer
lords are net beine i rored rt is the danger of a new
Munich.  rting from Sy ntiplay. iel Cor-
respondent of the . rese ssociation, described the
plans that were in the alr to "uppeaso" Japan witi u view
to ssining her army us un elly for future wurs:
"The most recent report from Jepan is that - with
the support or General Mecarthur's sdvisers . Tapun pro-
posed to settle five million Jtpanese in South Faoific
islands in five years tfter the signing of the peace
treaty.
"In

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.72)
nolosure to Desputon no. 329, Dec.23, 1949, Wal1
New Zeelund.
"In e report fron Tokio. tho 'syaney sis e' cor-
reenonaart  t t t . arked ty upun for
a buge migration schene . re pornce,
Yor sulser.
Pae erell I vi  liey er wanieh is rerfect.
Jerunese ehrenelon d. re. ere avocctua - tiii sli ut-
time
De indons vho a
1
vitt-be
t    
inalo..te..
tt
un to 1 i
FLavs TaP wank
i tnvited
1o irto
et
wenh
te
conf rree.
terer the cu fore
tort or r..l
tatt
1o
reason whe the
Chr lluin the
itir
off Yr Yoshidur

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Despatch no.329, December
23, 1949, Wellington, New Zealand,en-
titled: N.Z. APPREHENSIONS OVER POSS-
DCR
IBLE REARMAMENT OF JAPAN. Souroe: Stand-
ard (Wellington) December 22, 1949
BEWARE OF MUNICH
There exist dangurous trends at the present time to
a repetition of the fstal mistukes of the policy of Munich
1l yetrs ago. Munich vas the climux of a poliey which
tried to appease Sermany, Ital (and impliedly Japan) with
a view to diverting their ageressive designs Ths aggrss-
sor States, however. double crosued the Munichites and used
their strength in an attack on Fritain und France. still
FW894
coverned by those responsille for Munich: Neville Chamber-
lain and M. Daladier
The sane policy seems to be cuining strensth aeain.
Mirst with Poura to Jopau:
" YO. My 23
The United State: is ietermined to push strongly
chead with plans for the economie re latilitatien of
Tupan in spite of come doubts nd objeetions of the
other allied Powers in the rucific.
"The muthoritiss do nct re ard the fulfilment of
United States plans for Tupan as constituting & dan-
2
cer to other und uller rtcific Fowers. since indus-
trial reconstruction und FOs IELE PaltlaNT on 
0
small scale would be unaer United Stutes supervision."
The way how Jepanese re-militarisation is carried out
is similer to the wty Cer any re-crmed after the first
12-23
war Under t  canouflcne or "fighting striking workers
and communist.." a Lue weli-urmca, paramilitary police
force was built up which was  ood nucleus for hitler's
later reurmument.
"TOKIO, July 13
The available strength of the Jupanese polise-force
was increased yesterday from 125. 000 to 2 125, 000. The
National Public Safety Commission crdered that in case
of emergency, 2 000. 000 volunteer firemen of the Fire
f
Defense Corps should be mobilised to assist the regu-
lar police
5
"The firemen will be empovsred to suppress riots. er-
rest criminals, control traffic and suppress crime in
an energenoy."
The result of the growth of the police force under a
right-wing Government must be as has always been the case
in the past - a definite swing towards aggressive Fascism:
"LONDON, October 25.
merican policy in Japan has now become simply an
attempt to conciliatm the Japanese in every way, in
the

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure to Despatch no.329, Dec.23, 1949,Wellington,
New Zealand.
-2-
the hope that in any future war they will not side
with the enemis of the Jnited tates," seys the
Tokio correspondent of 'The Tines'.
"Corruption is now flourishing on L cigantic
scale, and there are indications that the Japanese
are fully prepered to sttrt again the unfuir prac-
tices by which they drove foreign competition cut of
Japan before the ver In spite of denials by the
Jupanese coverrunent. it is a fuet that the seoret
police have been re-sctatlished cnd huve been orerat-
ing sinc. last ril cr is lso videspread con-
viction that on the prutuxt of curryine out a yuree
of cosmunists. tis upuno il t ria f iiberal
thinkin  voll"
The Jupanese ure t soril thureusingly couscious that
herict wants to rer ta, i tho words of lieutenant-
Ceneral ichelberer:
"in the event cf wer with the oviet the issians
will see what stran e bearellos we hive ihty five
milllon Jupancse we lld te on o ar siao "
Ro wonder that Mr cosalde capen" rigrt-wins Prims
Minister is cetting more cate: oken every dey:
"FOLIC. Mevember 13
r. Yoslila or Pei. tete the Dist Le tslieved
that Japan had te ri t to rorate too antavorable
peace terms. me said 'Sinee  reacs treuty is in
fuct a treaty we cun probably ussert our rights In
a ccse where  p acs treaty is too unfavorable. it
is serely a matter of leuvin  the conference or of
not coneludire tihe pecee tresty "
and although ir Yoshida las compelled to retract
the woras quoted ubove he stated in a cable dated Tokio,
Noventer 23.
"A reace treaty disregurling the wishes of the Jup
anese bsople is unthinkcble tecause such a treaty is
bound once nore to disturt the orld order "
U.s. appeasement roliey cay sue to it that the wishes -
not of the Japanese people  but of the apanese ex-war
lords ere not being ignored Thert is the danger of a new
Munich. ecrting from Sydney, C.R.mentiplay. Speciel Cor-
respondent of the N.2. Press association, described the
plans that were in the sir to "appease" Japan with a view
to gsining her army as an ally for future wurs:
"The most recent report from Jepan is that - with
the support of General Macarthur's advisers . Japun pro-
posed to settle five million Japanese in South Pacific
islands in five years after the signing of the peace
treaty.
"In

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.75)
nclosure to Despaten no. 329, Dec. 23, 1949, Wellington
New Zeeland.
"In e repert fro lokio. the 'syaney sus s' cor-
resronaerttt t  urked ty upun for
a huge migration scheme  re : ornce, Fe sulsel.
Phe perell i w t li et wanleh  perfect.
Jepanese ehuenstor i fes ers avocutea - tijl eli it.
time
Dominion o a
1
vi etim bo-be
tre virtly
t    
indlote.
Juan to 1 i
t
La TP wh
is invitci 
P
otheri cf 
8
mentieue he
trto
refor the efore
I o
V: r
Poet bov chour
e i o
reason whthe
Chulluin the
itlere the
s  
off Yr Yoshida?
