894.917 Public Press., Japan, Periodicals., October 23, 1945 - April 20, 1948 (File 1628)
ID: 894.917-1628   Pages: 145   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.917-public-press-japan-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
1945
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NOV.8三1945
October 23, 1945
NICHGLAS KELLEY
Chairman
Xetter 11tips
JOHN PALMER GAVIT
WILL HRWIN
JOGEPHINE ROCHE
EE ELPGO
Vice-Chairmen
ROBERT D. KOHN
Treasmrer
DEP:
SIGURD J. ARNESEN
 dear Yr. Durbrow:
EDWARD FISHER BROWN
ALLEN T. BURNS
Many thanks for your kind Utter of October 16th,
and for the trouble your Division took trying to find the
six copies ef the Rusian-J anese magazine, Vostochnoe Oboz-
renie, hic I ave to the De artmont in 1940 and 1941. It is
a pity t at the copies cculd not be found, since they cntained
so e vory interecti:; material and names, and I have in my pos-
session only an incolp ete set (issue 1-4), together with some
other Japanese publications in Russian (a book on Shinto, on
the Japanese movin: picture industry, on Japanese family life,
READ LEWIS
Executive Divector
on Port Arthur, etc.).
MARIAN SCHIBSBY
Associate Directer
M. MARGARET ANDERSON
Vostochnoe Obosrenie was a serious attempt of the
Edisor, Common Ground
Japanese Southern Manchurian Railroud of Dairen, Manohukuo, to
YAROBLAV J. CHYZ
Manager, Foreign Language
m e propa anda for the Eastern Asiatic Co-prosperity Sphere in
Press Division
the Russian largua:e. It appeared quarterly fro. fall 1939 to
JACQUES F. PERRAND
Chief. Foveign Language
spri ls4l, and c  tained articles explaining Japanese economio
Radio Division
policy, s ratey and cultural expans ion in Eastern Asia. It con-
HANNY COHRBEN
PAUL LAVAL
tained articles by lendi Japanese na:spapermen, economists and
military ex erts u it wouid be useful, because of that, to have
the copies of this ma azine on file. Since, however, it seems
that none or them are avail ble in the thited States, it might be
/10-2345
Worth While to advise American representat ives and agents in the
Far East to look there ror the copies of this publication. In my
attempts to locate the magazine here, I hove found only the first
and second issws in the Herbert Hoover War Library in Palo Alto.
The whole t rend of the ma azine was to sive theoretical
basis ror Japanese militury expansi , ant the authors of these
articles
pca  d t e t be as uilty of a ressio as the rener-
als ho plamed the actual ndlit u o erations. Some of these
authors were:
Toomin Suzuki, Chief of the foreign informa-
tion bureau of the nespa er "Yomiuri"
Tetsudi Kada, Professor of Socioloy at the
Keio (Tokyo) Universit
NOV 1 3 1945
FILED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.85)
- 2 -
Tomasaburo Takagi, Pr peuser e Political Eco-
ne.y t t  Ho e: (Totve) Univereity
Gmmeter m Sese, Re  Aa iral (retired), ut or
Artemiy Lishin, a ysterious Russian author and
evidently editor o the 'Vostochnoe Obozrenie".
The sixth iseue o: the majasine, dated Janmary-March, 1941,
whie I do not have in mr  ssession, wonld be of particular interest
to the inavesti aters or the Pearl Harbor attack. That issue con-
tai ed an article by a Japanese udmiral, whose nae I do not recall,
whie wes entitied "our Strate  in the Pacific". I remember vaguely
t at there were phrases in that article ab ut "paralyzins blows on
Hawaii a a the Phili ines" mmt the areh towards the "treasuro
isetPeiie."
A fow eve submitt d to . illimn Benton,
Assist   Jesretury ef State, a memorandun on foreign ori gin rou s
in this country. 1 am enclosime a copy of this memere m. The para-
sraph on A weiea    we sti us mar be of interest to pu.
si woroy yours,
Muroslav J. C 
,Fo Lar e
Pro.a Drrarc
P. Elbrid e Durbrov, Chief
Divisien or Eastern Eurepemn Afrairs
Depertment of State
Vushinston, D. 0.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
EE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PR
OFFICE
ZWISIDN OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Ootober 29, 1945
EE
Mr. Durbrow:
Memorandum Regarding Commbn Council for
American Unity, 222 Fourth Avenue, New York,
N.Y.
The Board of Directors as shown on the letter of
October 23 by Mr. Chyz)is a mixed group. By far most
of the persons listed are known to be excellent high-
type Americans without ideological affiliations inimical
to the best interests of this country. On the other
hand, a few are known to have been interested in follow-
travelling outfits.
HM
The principal danger is that while superficially
894.917/10-2345
the program they outline with regard to our foreign
origin groups seems praiseworthy, it would be a perfect
foil for a clever fellow traveller to use these groups
for the benefit of interests not purely American. The
fact that this group, has an impressive Board of Directors,
1s of no consequence. The question is: "Who is going to
administer and direct activities?" In this connection
while the persons involved do not appear to be conneoted
now with the Common Council, it may be recalled that in
1940 Common Ground was official organ of this group,
was edited by Louis Adamic whose assistant was Mr. Alan
Cranston. At that time the publication expressed
numerous meritorious purposes in the interest of foreign
groups, but the Record indicated penetration by various
persons who had been active in Communist-controlled front
organizations and whose subsequent activities showed that
they might well have registered as agents of foreign prin-
cipa ls. At that time Common Ground contained many articles
which simply echoed the current Party line.
F.W 894.
In brief this 1s the chief ofjeotigr-onthe surface
the proposals seem praiseworthy but there'is no assurance
NOV 1 31945
that these aims may not be distorted in behalf of some
group whose aims and objectives do not coincide with the
FILED
best interests of the United Statos.
Raymond E. Murphy
2345
EUR/X:REM:MEM

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
COMMON COUNCIL FOR AMERICAN UNITY
222 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 3, N. Y.
AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY AND OUR FOREIGN ORIGIN GROUPS
More than a quarter of the American population, due to their foreign birth
or parentage, react to many of the situations and questicns with which American
foreign policy is dealing, differently and more deeply than the average American
citizen. It is natural and inevitable that this should be so. Despite new loyal-
ties. most Americans of foreign birth retain close ties of sentiment and affection
for their native lend and feel a deep concern and responsibility for its welfare
and for the wellbeing of their kinsmen and friends who still live there. Their
children, many of then at least, feel a similar interest and affection for the
land of their parents and ancestors.
At a time like the present, when conditions in most European countries are
not only unsettled and difficult, but when the very future of many peoples is at
stake in the peace treaties and postwar settlements now being worked out, this
interest and concern is especially acute. The resulting tonsions and pressures
in our foreign origin groups present complications from the standpoint of American
foreign policy, and may even be a source of national disunity. Certainly they
deserve the most careful attention.
Size of Cur Foreign Origin Groups
According to the 1940 Census there are 11,500,000 persons of foreign birth
and more than 23,000,000 persons of foreign parentage in this country; 22,000,000
persons reported some language other than English as their mother tongue. Not
all these are equally concerned about their countries of origin. On the other
hand, this interest reaches often far beyond first and second generations. It is
stimulated, particularly at times like the present, not only by general news but
by direct personal correspondence with relatives and friends abroad, by extensive
discussion of problems concerning their native lands in their group press and
radio, and even by foreign propaganda directed at some of the groups from abroad
or from foreign agents in this country. All this increases the difference in
thinking between these groups and the rest of the population.
Foreign vs. American Interests: Educational Service Nocessary
The United States, with the abandonment of isolationism, the ratification of
the United Nations Charter, and the assumption of leadership in making it effec-
tive, has embarked on a new era in its foreign policy. That policy can be a
success only if, among other things, it is backed by an informed public opinion
and a united nation. The importance of these factors has been recognized by the
State Department in the recent expansion of its activities and responsibilities
in the field of public education, and by its effort to see that our major polit-
ical parties are united on the general goals of our foreign policy. Yet in our
foreign origin groups we have a large bloc of'American citizens whose attitude
on many of the issues with which our foreign policy must deal is determined by

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
what they think is for the best interests of some foreign country rather than the
United States. This section of our American population is one, consequently.
where it is doubly important that there be effective educational work.
Soviet-American Relations an Example
Take,for example, the matter of Soviet-American relations. There is no
question of foreign policy so widely and bitterly discussed among American nation-
ality groups. But most of the articles and editorials on this question in our
foreign language press are concerned primarily with the aspirations of their
native countries and do not take into consideration the interests and point of
view of the United States. A few figures will indicate the extent and character
of the tensions involved:
Some 82 million Americans - according to 1940 census - were born, or are
children of parents born, in the Soviet Union or countries which are now occupied
by or under the influence of Russia:
Soviet Union
2,610,244
Rumania
247,700
Finland
284,290
Czechoslovakia
984,591
Estonia
6,658
Hungary
662,068
Latvia
34,656
Bulgaria
15,688
Lithuania
394,811
Yugoslavia
383,393
Poland
2,905,859
Albania
9,420
Another 6.8 million were born or are children of parents born in countries which
are also in direct contact with their eastern neighbor, and feel very decidedly
the impact of that contact:
Austria
1,261,246
Greece
326,672
Germany
5,236,612
Other groups are also involved, since the attitude of Czech, Croatian, German,
Lithuanian. Polish, Slovak and Ukrainian Catholics regarding Soviet Russia finds
easy understanding and sympathy among their French, Irish, Italian and Spanish
correligionists. Over 12  of the 15.3 million people, for whom specific figures
have just been given, reported at the same census some language other than English
as their mother tongue Albanian, Armenian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, Estonian,
Finnish, German, Greek, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Rumanian, Russian,
Serbian. Slovak, Slovene, Ukrainian, and Yiddish.
There are some 571 dailies, semi-weeklies, weeklies and periodicals pub-
lished in the above languages, more than half of the loo0 foreign language pub-
lications in the United States. Cut of the 571 papers, 26 Communist publications
approve the Soviet foreign policy unreservedly. Between 60 and 70 non-Communist
publications, mostly in the Czech and Croatian groups, are decidedly friendly to
the policies of the Soviet Union and to that of the Soviet sponsored governments
in their respective countries; some of the rest take a waiting attitude, but a
great majority are openly hostile to the policies of Moscow, especially in the
Polish, German. Lithuanian, Finnish, and Hungarian groups. Throughout these
groups committees and associations are meeting, arranging for mass meetings and
demonstrations, petitioning the United States and other governments, and collecting
money to finance their activities and those of their supporters here and abroad.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
But the determining factor in their attitudes and activities is not the welfare
of the United States, of which they are citizens, but some foreign country.
American Emphasis Needed - Case of Lithuania
Americans of Lithuanian background, for example, are violently stirred re-
garding the fate of Lithuania. The great majority of their press is filled with
bitter denunciations of Soviet Russia. One of the guiding principles of American
foreign policy is undoubtedly the democratic self-determination and self-govern-
ment of peoples. Another major goal is maintenance of the unity and collabora-
tion of the nations which won the war. In the case of Lithuania. these principles
come into conflict, and it is likely that American foreign policy will have to
make some sort of compromise. Lithuanian Americans are not likely to surrender
their convictions regarding an independent Lithuania, but for the sake of American
unity it is of the greatest importance that they understand the broader outline
and objectives of American foreign policy. If they see the problem of Lithuania
within this larger framework, they are likely to accept some compromise with less
bitterness, to see in the development of the United Nations the opportunity for
working out later some more democratic solution, and to be less ready to give
encouragement and support to some movement for forcible change. Certainly they
will be more closely integrated in the American viewpoint, and American unity and
American foreign policy will be strengthened.
Other tensions
Similar tensions and divisions as well as similar activities exist in other
groups: anti-British trends among many Greek and Italian Americans, pro Franco
tendencies in some of the Spanish American groups, deep dissatisfaction with
Allied policies on the part of the German and Polish Americans, the sharp division
for and against Tito in Serbian, Croatian and Slovene groups, the preoccupation
with the interests of the Soviet Union and complete disregard of those of the
United States by communists of all national origins, the explosive Palestine
question in the Jewish and Arabic groups. Enmities and loyalties are often so
intense, that it would not be surprising if some of the groups would give vent to
their pent-up tensions by organizing or supporting movements embarassing to the
nation as a whole.
Potential Assets
On the other hand the special knowledge which our nationality groups have
with regard to their countries of origin, their desire to help their kinsmen
abroad, the influence which their press, organizations and leaders have in their
countries of origin, could, if encouraged, become an important factor in strength-
ening democracy in many foreign countries and in spreading a better understanding
of America and American ideas.
Suggested Program
In order to counteract existing tensions among our foreign origin groups and
promote the American viewpoint and a united public opinion, it is suggested:

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
一4
(1) That the State Department extend its informational and educational work
to our foreign origin groups; that, among other things, it
(a) translate and send to the foreign language press and radio in the
United States a summary of the most important material it is now supplying to the
English language press and radio, and
(b) prepare special articles dealing with conditions, issues and needs
within one or more nationality groups for the foreign language press and radio,
such articles and material to emphasize the general principles and goals guiding
American foreign policy.
(2) That the State Department and any other appropriate government agency
include in consultations and conferences to which representatives of general
American public opinion are invited representatives from our foreign origin groups.
and also that the State Department encourage representatives of such groups to
present their views, petitions or grievances to it, in order that such groups may
be discouraged from turning to foreign governments, more closely integrated into
American life, and educated in regard to American foreign policy.
October 19, 1945

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
NOV 2 1945
In reply refer to
EE
Dear Mr. Chyz:
I am acknowledging receipt of your letter of
F.W
October 23, 1945 in whioh you present further in-
formation in regard to the Russian-Japanese magazine
Vostochnoe Obozrenle and some of the authors of its
894.9
propaganda articles.
Your letter and the enclosure dealing with
American foreign polioy and our foreign origin groups
have been passed on to the other officers of the
Department who are concerned with these matters.
Your interest in submitting this material is
greatly appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
Elbridge Durbrow
Chief, Division of
Eastern European Affairs
Mr. Yaroslav J. Chyz,
Manager, Foreign
Language Press Division
Common Counoil for American Unity
222 Fourth Avenue,
New York 3, New York.
NOV
EE:ELFreers:GP
11/1/45

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
COMMON COUNCIL FOR AMERICAN UNITY
INGBRPERATED
223 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 3. N. Y.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NOV 2 01945 e
November 19, 1945
WILL IRWIN
PHING, ROCHE
ROBERT B. KOHN
SIGURD J. ARNEGEN
Treasurer
Dear Mr. Durbrow:
94.917
10.233
EDWARD FIGHER BROWN
ALLEN T. BURNG
I have recefved from your office the 6th volume of
MRS. THOMAS CAPEK
MALCOLN W. BAVIS
Vostochnoe Obozrenie and I am very thankful for it, as
ELIZABETH GASTMAN
GYLVAN GOTSHAL
it put me straight on my vague recollections as to its
EARL G. HARRISON
JAMES L HOUGHTELING
contents. As I see it now, the volume contains an
MRG. JAMES A. KENNEDY
PRANK J. LAUSCHE
article not on the Japanese but on the United States
READ LEWIS
MRG. JACOD A. RIIS
strategy in the Pacific by a Japanese newspapermen.The
MARIAN SCHIBOBY
EUGENE H. ZAGAT
Japanese Ad iral Soosa has an article in the same issue
READ LEWIS
on other subjects. Hawaii and the Philippines are
Execative Directer
nentioned in this volume in a different conneotion than
MARIAN SCHIBSBY
Asseciate Directer
I thou ht on the basis of havin: seen this volume four
M.
MARGARST ANDERSON
years ago.
VAROGLAV J. CHYZ
Press Division
In your letter of November 2nd you mentionedthat
JACQUES F. FERRAND
Chict. Poreign Language
you passed y first letter on the subject to other
Radio Division
HANNY CONRSEN
officers of the department.
Vould you kindly pass
PAUL LAVAL
this correction alon; also?
I vill return the volume to your office within a
fe days, after I have made additional notes for my use.
Sincerely yours,
Yororlavy. Chyz
Yaroslav J. Chyz
Manager, Foreign Lenguage
Press Division
Xr. Elbridge Durbrow, Chief
NOV 28 1945
FILLO
Div. of Eastern European Affairs
Department of State
ana
ad
Jashington, D. C.
e0
Dar
13F
ist

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Jepan, December 8, 1945.
PC/R
NO. 87
SUBJECT: Review of Yagazine New Life (Shinsei).
3
ITA
The Honorable
946
The Secretary of State,
lIkis
Washington.
Sir:
#1
I have the honor to enclose a brief review of the first two
894.917/12
issues of a new monthly megazine published in Jepan entitled New
Life (Shinsei).
Shortage of paper and danage to printing equipment has retar-
ded the publication of periodicals in Japan since the surrender.
However, with this situation somewhat alleviated, numerous maga-
zines of pamphlet size are constantly appearing on the newstands.
 nuaber of the populer megezines heve quickly changed their themes
from militarism to democracy und reach the sane readers as before.
2-845
The well known literary magazines, Chuo Koron and Kaizo are sche-
duled to resume publicatin in January.
of the new periodicals to appear, Shinsei seems to be the most
promising. Its editor is URoBuE Takanobu, a journalist who has
served on the staff of the Asahi Shinbun and es an editor of the
magazine, Nippon Hyoron. He has the reputation of being liberally
inclined but while his writings at present are directed exclusive-
ly toward preise of democracy, he hes in the past written such
books as Light Comes from the East and The Great East Asia War. He
C8
is said to have been an active proponent of the "asie for the Asia-
tics" policy. His latest work is a 64 psge pamphlet entitled Demo-
cracy and Japan published November 20, 1945.
The first issue of Shinsei which appeared in Movember contained
articles by such well known wrtters and politicians as OZAkI Yukio,
KAGAWA Toyohiko, MIsTANI Choseburo of the Social Democratic Party,
FUKUMOTC Kazuo, former Comunist leader, and BAEA Tsunego, popular
journalist. The December number includes articles by a number of
scholars who teke a liberel point of view.
894.917/12
Outstanding articles in these two issues are "The Responsibili-
ty of Marquis XIrO" by Ih..BUC I Tetsuo and "Public Men Who Daneed to
the Tune of the Militarists" by SHIRAyT Masayuki, both of which hav
been sent to the Depertment in full transletion (our despatches No.
62 of November 19, 1945 and No. 86 of December 8, 1945). Other ar-
ticles of interest are Professor MINoßE's discussion of the "netion-
al polity" and the "nation-state", Dr. OCHI's defense of repudia-
tion of public

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
tion of public debts, and INAk's discussion of Japan as a state
based on law or a state based on economy.
One must conclude that standards of Japanese journalis are
not yet high and that it mey be some time before competent poli-
tical writ ing cen be expected to emerge out of the present state
of confused battling ideologies.
Respectfully yours,
George tcheson, Jr.
nclosure:
Review of New Life (shinsei).
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to the Department.
891
JKEnmerson:anl
Copy to Civil Information and Educe-
tion Section, G.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
Inclosure to Despatch No. 87 of December 8, 1945 from the
Acting United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on
the subject "Review of magazine New Life (Shinsei)".
Review of SHINSEI (Vita Nova)
November and Initial Number
a monthly megazine nowly started by the hinsei sha under the
editorship of trOuE Takanobu, a liberally inclined critic and
writer. lthough originally a prolific writer, Murobuse was rather
silent during the war. hile not identifying hinself to a fixed
political ideology, he is regarded as a liberelly inclined journalist.
Overzealous in displaying the names of persons prominent in political
and literery circles without regard to any fixed political or intel-
lectual tendency, the initial number shows signs of hasty editorial
work. Nevertheless, shinsei, being the first of the new literary ma-
gezines to appear, hae been enthusiasticelly received by the reading
public and is likely to keep the leed in the review field.
FOR TH. D.wN OF EW D.YS, by MUROBUSE Takanobu (Editor)
. lively essay of eulogy of the dawn of new days in Japan.
TH R D YLF, by OI Yukio
.. veteran liberal politician and statesman giving his reminis-
cence of the critical days of the Manchurian Incident.
REPONSIBILIPY OF R UI :IDC, by IN BUCHI Tatsuo
The author, & noted political commentator, expresses keen dis-
appointment at the total ebsence of politicians and statesmen in
Jepan brave enough openly to shoulder responsibility for this un-
reasoneble and reckless wer. In analysing the innor politics prior
to the outbreek of the Pacific ar, he asserts thet, even admitting
the populer notion of the guilt of fOJe and his militery clique,
the lder stetesmen's group and particulerly arquis TDo, who was
nesrest to the Throne as Lord eeper of rivy seal, were directly
responsible for committin the country to the unfortunate peth of
war by bringing in Tojo end his wer monger militerists to the Gov-
ernment.
OYEMORD FOR E. J., by F TUOTO Yazuo
The writer wes an erstwhile Marxist theorist and formerly pro-
fessor of economics. The erticle is a non-committel essay giving
his reminiscenees during the war and advising the people to give up
all mystic notion: about nationelien and aleo to avoid the mistakes
of Geraeny in preserving the sentiment of revenge for the present
defeat.
R-G OF FOL P, by F.G Toohiko
The noted religious leeder and social worker in this article,
eulogizing the dawn of a new era, enphesizes his belief that the new
proletarian political movement must be caried on along the line of
uplifting the people's morality. Strongly opposing the Marxian as
well as capitalistic emphasis on materialism, Kagawa advocates that the
proletarian politicel parties must be based on the idea of respect of
personality and of labor. As a means of socializing Japan along legi-
timate lines, he proposes the active development of the cooperative
movement.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
movement. as to Japan's political form, he firmly believes that the
constitutional monerchial form based on democracy would be the best
fitted for Japan both from the theoretical and historical points of
view.
WHAT DO ES THE ITO (JAPA SOOLL DE CRTTC P.RTY) WANT? by
MIAUTANI Chosaburo
Declaring the first objective of the Shakaito to be the achieve-
ment of political freedom, this prominent leader of Shakaito and Diet
member emphaeizes the necessity o radical parliamentary reform. Re-
ferring to economic matters, he says that the Shakeito will naturally
follow the policy of industrial democracy, synonymous with socialism.
While endorsing the policy of the Mippon Jiyuto (Japan Liberal Party),
now being formed, so fer us the question of politicel freedon is con-
cerned, the writer doubts whether the Jiyuto's plen of free economy
would be actually precticable under the prevailing economic conditions
in Japan. Instead, a socielistic planned economy is the only practic-
able policy for presont day Jepan. ithout the adoption of a social-
istic economic policy, no pressing problems sucn as checking inflation,
effecting rural refori and extending relief to war sufferers can be
boldly handled.
IS PFL IHON INEVITIBLE? by TV. E Seiki
Referring to the speech of Finence Minister PsHrin mede at the
Bankers association on september 1l, in which he expressed the deter-
mination of the autaorities to take firm measures age inst excessive
inflation, the writer, an economic critic, assorts that mere determi-
nation will not solve the guestion. It is up to the courage of the
authorities whether to take determined steps effectively to stop in-
flation so far as t.e circulation of money is concerned. This angle
is extremely important since es tnings stend at present it is very
difficult to expect a solution to the inflction problem through an
increased flow of comnodities nowever hard the netion mey try. The
writer emphasizes the neces ity of per:ecting the reorganization of
the Currency easure Commission to meet the situation.
RE INISCEYCS OF MAR PERIOD, by CVO Suekichi
an essay by a noted progressive literary critic giving reminis-
cenes during tne war. Particularly he expresses indignation at the
militerietic trensformetion of some literary men during wertime.
ATTITUDE CF LITERRY E, by U Hakucho
The writer is a veteren novelist of the real stic school. e
advices a prudent attitude on the part of literery men an the pre-
sent situation, especially taking stock of past history.
. CL.P C POLIPIC, by BA.. Tsunego
The absent-mindednese of officialdom since the end of the war
is severely criticized by the writer, a noted liberal political com-
mentator, He says that in view of the existence of & number of pro-
blems awaiting urgent solution the people shoud meke vigorous efforts
in order to bring about a bright future for Japan disregaräing the
absent-minded bureaucrats anc politiciens.
REVIEN OF SHINSEI

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
Review of SHINsEI (Vita Nova)
December Number
The second number generally has the appearence of a quieter modd
as compered with the first and initiel number which had rather too
many prominent men of radically different ideologies as contributors.
Practically all of the contributors to the present number are recog-
nized liberal thinkers and scholars. The magazine seems to be still
leading in the periodical field of its kind, although piles of the
magazines are still seen stccked unsold in book stores, testifying
to slower sale than et the time of the initial number.
IS REPUDA PION OF PUELIC DEFT T AL? by UCI Hyoye
The writer is e profescor of public finance in Tokyo Imperisl
University. For several years he wes on the retired list, having
been indicted in connection with the 'red professors• case. By the
changed situation, he has recently returned to his professorial
cheir in the University. This article is & follow-up of his recent
radio speech, in which he advised Finance inister SHIBusaMA to re-
pudiate huge wartine public debts thereby creating a considerable
sensution in political and financiel circles. The professor reas-
serts his proposal for public debts repudiation, saying that there
were instances of such repudiation not only in the western countries
but in Japan as well und that there is nothing imioral in the pro-
posal. Fer from being immoral, the writer thinks that the policy of
repudiation is morallyfar superior to letting inflation have its full
swey by continued pledge or public debts.
a PL. FOR DEoCR.CY, by UaObS.. Takenobu (Editor of the megazine)
An editorial eulogizing the causes of democracy. The writer,
after explaining the development of democrecy, emphasizes that in ac-
cepting democracy we should at lesst try to understand and become
sympathetic to socialism. The writer also asserts the necessity of
achieving politicel and sociel democrecy at the seme time.
IRR.TIONALITY OF JAR  R CIAL C CPER, by HasEGAA Jozekan
This is an analysis of the psychological fectors which drove Ja-
pan to war by a well known free thinking unorthodox sociologist. He
believes that the irrational aspect of Jepanese racial psychology,
given full and inordinate inpetus to the complete sacrifice of logic,
has been chiefly responsible for the politicel degeneration finally
leading to Japen's plunge into disastrous war. The writ er, who for-
merly believed in the general rationality of Japenese racial charac-
ter, admits his miscalculation with regard to the general situation
prior to the out break of the wer. Like an attemot to deprive a human
being of all sense of fearing, it is impossitle to remove irrationeli-
ty entirely from Jepanese racial psychology or from any people'e psy-
chology. Instead of attempting the impossible, irrationality in Japa-
nese racial psychology should be directed into e channel conducive to
a humane way of life through education and treining. In the instance
of shinto, even this racial religion whicn has been considerably per-
verted, could be brought to contribute toward the cultural promotion
of the world at large.
IS JAPAN TO BE

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
IS JAPAN TO BE A ST.TE BY L OR . TATE BY ECONOMY? bY IMANAKA
Tsugumaro
The writer is & forner professor of politics in the Kyushu Impe-
rial University. He has lately been very active in the cooperative
movement. iscussing the future form of the Japanese state, the wri-
ter asserts that there are only two courses of development, nanely a state
predominantly besed on law en: a state based on economy. By the first
he means a state based on pclitical liberalism with free economy, while
by the latter a stete founded on a socielistic controlled economy. He
has no hope for the first since Jepan's capitalism has been deprived of
its intermational cneracter, while the logical conclusion of the latter
idea would be the sovietizetion of Japen, wnich is hopeless unless Ja-
pan becomes a member of the Soviet nion. He sees the only way out in
the strengthening of the coonerative union movement similar to the one
in progress in Chine, adding that this movement alone will save Japan
from economic chaos and liberalize political socialism.
A COUNTRY IC HD HO ILOSOP Y, by AEGUSA HakuOn
The writer, who is an ardent student of philosophy, thinks that
while nations cen be defeated even when they have philosophies, as in
the cese of Gernany, Japan hac been beaten because she has bad no
philosophy.
CUR CONCPTI OF KOKUTI (Netional Polity) AND KOITA (Nation State)
by YIic5E Tatsukichi
or. Minobe is & prominnt scholar and specialist in Constitu-
tional Law. He has been severely persecuted for his so called  Emperor
Organ Theory', whereby he rejected the mystic interpretation of the
position of the aperor in the Government of Jepen. In his brief fore-
word to the article, Dr. Minobe expleins how following the Manchurian
Incident he was made the terget of severe criticism and was violently
persecuted by the militariets ana rightist orgens. The erticle, he
states, was originally written for a wo an's magezine which at the time
refused publicatior for obvious rersons. MINoBE expresces his astonish-
ment that his theory, eving been accepted for more than 30 years, was
suddenly made an object of violent atteck and that freedom of expression
was more often than not supressed by pr ivete organs. slsewhere in the
article he elucidates his constitutional tneory, clearly distinguishing
his conception of "kokutai", which he interprets as the historical con-
ception of national life, fron that of "kokka", which he explains as
strictly a juridicel conception of "stete". is theory of the consti-
tution, accoraingto his exoltnstion, is to interpret the idea of state
as a particular kind of legal person which has nothing to do with the
conception of "kokutai".
O   P L, by I Tatsuo
frecing the development of the controversy on constitutional re-
vision, the noted politicel co  entstor discerns in this very contro-
versy the complexity and difficulty of the process of liberalization
and democratization of Japan.
FOCAL POI T O CONITTUPIOAL EVIION, by UKI Yasuzo
In this article, the writer, & well mown political journalist,
expresses

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
expresses regret that all controversies regarding constitutional re-
vision so far have been on the problem of revision processes or the
pros and cons of the necessity of revision. A series of talks with
allied personnel as well as his own reflection have convinced him of
the urgency of contitutional revision. fter describing the history
of the enactment of the present Constitution, he reveals the exist-
ence of a number of extremely democratic draft constitutions.drawn
up by democratic politiciens at the time Prince ITo's draft was
adopted. These liberal constitutional drafts prepared by our own
democratic predeceseors must be fully taken into consideration when
we plan constitutional revision now.
PUBLIC EN IO NCED TO THY TRE OF E ILITARISTS, bY HIRAKI Mas-
yuki
. relatively unknown journalist picks up the names of prominent
public men, both militeri sts end civilians, who are suspected of hav-
ing collaborated in the nazification of Japan. Mentioning TSUGITA Dai-
zaburo end HOklrIkI enbei, both in the present Cabinet, as collabora-
tors of militarism, the writer points out I.A. Takio, an arch bureau-
cret, and nis group as behind the scenes guiding the policy of the
SHIDE LR. Cabinet. Dwelling triefly on the March and October Incidents
of l93l as merking the beginning of the dominance of militarists in
Japenese politics, the writer ecserts thet all politicians in power
since then cannot escape blame for having collaborated with the mili-
tarists. mphasizing that there are many parliamentary politicians and
prominent bureaucrats in this category, the writer mentions the names
of BE Nobuyuki, ND Ryusaku, YOKOY Sukenari, HHIU Kiyonosuke,
QASA Tadao, MAED. Yonezo, Y YI Tesunosuke,  TYOSHI Hideyuki and
TSUGUMo Yunitoshi in the fonner group and OsHINO Naoki, ISHI Shin-
suke, GOTO Funio and his lieutenants, ns. Toshiki and AIKNA Kat-
suroku, while Marquis IDo s subordinates, TRoS Hisatada and ABE Genki
are also included by the writer as collaborators. In the Finance Minis-
try group, the writer mentions :AY.. Okinobu, IsTvaT. Sotaro and AOKI
Setsuzo, while the nanes of Count RI, IHTGURO and SEGOKU are also
mentioned.
RE:TNISNC S OF LRICA, by H.G.I afu (nevelist)
a short essay.
ROAD FOR E LY BORT J. PA, by BABA TSunego
An impassioned plea for politicel rejuvenation of Japan by a liberal
Comentator.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
MAVISION OF C
THE FOREIGN SERVICE JAN01946
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMDRICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITTOA
Tokyo, Japam, January
NO. 173
DC/R
SUBJECT: Reviews of Recent Japanese Periodicals.
H1
AJA
FE/R
10R1
The Honorable
The Socretary of State,
IFE
FEB11946
Washington.
17e
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit reviews, p
Mr. MATSUO
Matsuhei of the staff of this Mission, of severel rocent issues
of prominent Japanese magazines of public affairs.
The magazines reviewed are:
Gendai (Modern Age), Novembem 1945
Koron (Public Opinion), October, 1945
Sozo (Creation), October, 1945
Jimmin Hyoron (Revuo de Popolo), November and December, 1945.
The most important recent dovelopment in the periodical field has
been the resumption of publication, with their January 1946 issues,
of Cho Koron end Kaizo, which until their suppression during the war
were Japan's leading literary magazines. The former is now being
dited by ROYAMA Masamichi, formerly professor at Tokyo Imperial
University and a member of the Diet. Although no more than aeursory
examination has yet been possible, these general cultural reviews are
001
expected to uphold their previous high standards.
Efforts will be made to forward these and other magazines, and
C
when possible reviews of them, to the Department in the near future.
Rospectfully yours,
894.914
Enclosures:
1. Review of Gendai
HECTO
OSALID
SENT TO FR
h:

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
1. Review of Gendai,
2. Review of Koron,
3. Review of Sozo,
4. Review of Jimmin Hyoron.
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to General Headquarters, SCAP.
891
JKEmmerson:anl

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Emelesure No. 1 to Despateh No. 193 of January 7, 1946 frem the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, en the subjeet
"Reviews of Recent Japanese Periodicals."
REVIEW OF RECENT JAPANESE PERIODICALS
GENDAI (Modern Age) Vol. II, No. 26, November Number
The rather conservative tendency of the magazine is revealed
in the complete absence of prominent liberal writers in the
present number which is conspicuous by the inclusion of en
article by KODaMa Yoshio, erstwhile adviser to Primce HIGA-
SHI-KUNI's Cabinet and a recognized rightist recently appre-
hended as a war criminal suspect. However, the fact that the
magazine is at least representing private academic institu-
tions particularly the Waseda group as against the official
academic group as represented by the imperial university cir-
cle is seen in an editorial in the front page advocating the
abolition of imperial universities. The present issue is a
spocial number devoted to the urgent food problom.
The symposium on the country's food problem is composed of three
articles written by agricultural experts. The first article is writ-
ton by Prof. AZUMA Tosaku, of the Agricultural Colloge of the Imperial
University, entitled THE SOLUTION OF FOODSTUFF PROBLEM AND THE BUILD-
ING OF NEW VILLAGES. After making a brief survey of agrarian condi-
tions both during and after the war, the writer asserts that the foud-
alistic background in rural areas and the feudal-bureaucratic agricul-
tural control policy have been the chief ceuses of the failure of the
past and present agricultural policy of the country. Therefore, ac-
cording to Prof. AZUMA, the abandonment of bureaucratic agricultural
control and fundementel rural reform are essential factors for the im-
provement of the agricultural situation leading eventually to increased
production. In order to achieve these ends which must form the basis
of Japan's real demccratization, the writer advocates the establishment
of an independent agrarien party based on medium sized farmers who are
the most healthy element in rural areas and who should form the back-
bone for a future democratic Japan.
The question of foodstuffs is approached from the angle of new
colonization by KURCSAW Torizo, a member of the House of Representa-
tives, in an article called ROAD TO THE CULTIVATION OF FOUR MILLION
CHO. He says that new cultivation of four million cho (approximately
10 million acres) is entirely possible in Japan if the project is ap-
proached in the proper way.
OIKMI Yasushi, Chief of the Oikami Institute of Physics and Agri-
culture, in an article DEFINITE POLICY FOR INCREASED PRODUCTION OF FOOD-
STUFFS, believes that self-sufficiency in foodstuffs is entirely pos-
siblo in Japan if new technology is applied to agriculture. For this,
however, not only the liberalization of politics and economy but also
complete freedom in scientific learning and liberalization of technology
are essential and necessary. This scientist,urges the emancipation of
farmers from the double exploitation of feudalism and capitalism, the
redistribution of arable land so as to enable the farmers to own at
least one cho of land per family and the reorganization of rural autono-
mous bodies. In the field of economy he advocates freedom from the yoke
of economic exploitation, the reduction and reform of tenancy rates and
radical reform of the marketing system. As a scientist, the writer
strongly emphasizes the application of new technology to agriculture,
urging a fundamental reform of the agricultural education of the country.
FUTURE OF

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
あ 2 -
FUTURE OF JAPAN'S FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND ANTI-INFLATION POLICY, by
ARAKAWA Shoji
The writer, who is the Governor of the Yokohame Specie Bank,
mentions three points, namely the stabilization of the intermal
value of the currency at home, the convertibility of the curremey
into foreign money end the confidence of foreign countries in the
country involved as the prerequisites for the stabilization of a
mation's foreign exchange situation. In the case of Japan the
first point, namely the stabilization of the domestic purchasing
power of the yen is the only course of action now practicable for
the eventual stabilization of the foreign exchange value of the
yon. So the problem of Japan's foreign exchange has a very close
relationship with the anti-inflationary measures now widely dis-
cussed in various circles.
THE DREAM T) ESTABLISH N INTERNATIONAL STATE (in English) by KA-
GAWA Toiko
POLITICS OF YOUTH, by KODAMA Yoshio
The former adviser to the HIGASHI-KUNI Cabinet, in omphasiz-
ing the role of youth in the future politics of Japan, declares
that the Emperor system and democracy are perfectly compatible in
Japan and that the loyalty of the younger generation to the Empe-
ror is an important motive power for the future politics of Japan.
The writer also advocates the wholesale exit of older people from
the political scene and the democratization of politics.
DEMOCRATIC SPIRIT OF AMERICA, by NAKANO GorO
ON FUTURE EDUCATION, by INAGE Kinshichi
A short article on the reform of Japan's education by a prof-
essor of Waseda University.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enelosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 173 of January 7, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the subjeet
"Reviews of Recent Japanese Periodicals."
REVIEW OF RECENT JAPANESE PERIODICALS
KORON (Public Opinion) Vol. 8, No. 10 October Number
This magazine has beem the only periodical review devoted to
general political and economic matters since suspension of the Kaizo
(Reconstruction) and the Cho Koron (Central Review) during wartime.
It was maturally strongly coloured by an extremely nationalistic
slant. The present mumber, the first issue since the end of the war,
appears, howevor, in a moderately democratic cloak.
CAUSE OF JAPAN'S DEFEAT AND AMERICAN SCIENCE, by KAMIMURA Totsuya
The editor of the magazine, who is a pedagogue by training, in
this article subtitled 'character of academic study and education',
asserts that the entire nation including himself was cleverly de-
ceived by the militarists and bureaucrats and traces the fundamental
cause of Japan's defeat to the degeneration of morality among the
nation. Attributing the main cause of the Allied victory to the sup-
remacy of morican science, the writer examines in detail the philo-
sophic and psychological background of American science, in which he
is well versed.
TENDENCY OF AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE, by KODAMA Sho
A profossor of psychology of Koio University traces the develop-
ment of psychological scionce in America.
INTROSPECTION ON JAPAN'S COLIEGE EDUCATION, by SAKAEDA Yoshihata
The writer, a professor of Waseda University, strongly criticizes
the sectionalism of academic circles in Japan, advocates a basic re-
form of the college educational system by breaking the prevalont stag-
nancy in university circles.
REFLECTION ON FEUDALISTIC LIBERALISM, by SUMITA Shoichi
This economic writer means by the term "feudalistic liberalism"
the old fashioned practice of senseless pursuit of profits irrespec-
tive of public welfere. He states that such feudalistic liberalism
was the main cause of Japan's defeat, adding that if this sort of
liberalism is to prevail, Japan's economic future is doomed. In or-
der to forestall tais, the writer urges the adoption of a new liberal-
ism entirely freed from the old practice of unrestricted competition
but containing the superior elements in past liberelism.
In  Symposium On THE STABILIZATION OF NATIONAL LIFE, TERUHISA
Yoshitoshi, Chief of the Institute of Labor Science, examines the pro-
blem of unemployment from the angle of family life, the agricultural
situation and industrial conditions. He declares that the question
must not beapproaohed merely as a temporary measure of giving jobs or
granting doles to the unemployed but must be handled as a fundamental
problem of reorganizing the entire national life.
MATSUo Kyo, former chief of the agricultural section of the Sangyo
Hokokukai (Industrial Patriotic Service Association) in the second
article

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
article of the symposium, surveys the foodstuffs poliey and assorts
that basic agrarian reform, including the redistribution of farm land,
is necessary to assure the future increase of food production, adding
that the strong political power of the Government is required to earry
out such fundamental agrarian reform.
KIYOSE Ichiro, a noted Parliamentarian of the "liberal-conserva-
tive" school, contributes the third article entitled "The Road for New
Japan", saying that the future of Japan is not necessarily black if
the nation works hard in strict observance of the Imperial Rescript
announcing the termination of war.
FUTURE POLITICAL TREND, by KONO Mitsu
The Shakaito (Socislist Party) leader in this article surveys
past politics and asserts that the poverty of politics has been the
chief cause of Japan's blunders. While the parliamentary system must
naturally form the basis for the democratization of Japan, present
and past parliamontarians should reflect upon their past mistakes.
Expressing keen disappointment that Japan's past polities chiefly
centered around personal relationships and feelings, the writer urges
that future politics must be founded dofinitely on clear cut political
policies and progrems. Referring to future political line-ups, KOnO
thinks that probably four major parties, namely two parties to be
born out of the present Progressive Party, HATOYAMA's Liberal Party
and his own Social Domocratic Party, will be the chief competitors in
the politicel scene in the imnediate future. The writer, however,
fears that the programs and policies of the four parties will turn out
to be superficially similar in major points due to very small margin
of action left to Japan for the solution of her difficult probloms.
ETERNAL PEACE IN PROSPECT NOW, by NISHIYAMA TenzO
Eulogizing tho imperial rescript announcing Japan's capitulation,
this reviewer makes a rather philosophical dissertation on the moral
onhancenent of the Japanese preparing for the opening of eternal peace.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Emelesure No. 3 to Despatch No. 173 of January 7, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the subjget
"Reviews of Rocent Japanese Periodicals."
REVIEW OF RECENT JAPANESE PERIODICALS
Sozo (The Creation) Vol. 15, No. 10
October Number
A conservativa and rather colorless magazine of long standing, the
present number is the first issued since the end of the war. The period-
ical is conspicuous by the absence of recognized liberal writers. On the
whole the magazine still retains much of its nationalistic slant.
CAUSES OF JAPAN'S DEFEAT AND THE CARDINAL POINT OF JAPAN'S REBUILDING,
by SATOMI Kishio
The article by this writer, a rather well known nationalistic pub-
licist, takes 16 of 32 pages of the present number, testifying to his
close connection with the publication. The article, although volumi-
nous, is nothing but an apologea for his past writing during the war.
In his concluding remarks, SATomI urges the establishment of democracy
compatible with the historic conception of Japan (kokitai). Ho makes
a plea to Genoral Macarthur and the Allied Powers to recognize the pat-
riotic loyalty of the Japanese nation to the Emperor.
SELF-AWAKENING ON CULTURAL REBUILDING OF JAPAN, by HAGA Kashiwa
An essay by a literary critic urging cultural renaissance for new
Japan definitely severed from mythology and based on firm realities.
NATURAL SCIENCE AND NATIONAL LIFE, by HAYASHI Takashi
A doctor of biology in the Keio Medical College and a well known
essayist, Dr. HAYAsHI in this article, asserting that the backwardness
of Japan's natural science was one of the chief causes of Japan's de-
feat, urges the popularization of natural science both for the sake of
Japan's rebuilding and for the democratization of the country. Espo-
cially does the writer omphasize the importance of taking natural
science into the daily life of the nation.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 173 of January 7, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject
"Reviews of Recent Japanese Periodicals."
REVIEW OF RECENT JAPANESE PERIODICALS
JIMMIN HYORON (Revuo de Popolo) Number 1 (November)
A liberal magazine of leftist tendency issued for the first
time in Novamber. The magazine seems to have no official connec-
tioa with the Communist Party. In its editorial post-script, a
staff editor states that the magazine has refrained from printing
any spocial editorial explaining the policy of the periodical
since the articles thomselves reveal the nature and mission of
the publication. The editorial staff will try to keep the maga-
zine open to the people as a whole, making the publication an
organ closely allied with the people and truly reflecting the
voice of the poople.
DEMOCRATIZATION OF JAPAN AND PEACE PRESERVATION LAW
A brief editorial urging the immediate repeal of the peace pre-
servation law.
RATIONALITY ND IRRATIONALITY, by MORI Koichi
Assorting that irrational thinking is the root of all evils,
the writer explains that this irrationalism has been the main sup-
port for the foudalistic and hierarchical order of things which has
no relationship with the people as a whole.
CHARACTER OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR AND POTSDAM DECLARATION, by
MATSUMOTO Shin-iehi
The writer, who seems to be one of the editors of the periodical,
thinks that there were undoubtedly imperialistic aspects in the cha-
racter of the second World War. But the important thing, he continues,
is that in the course of its development these imperialistic aspects,
particularly strong in the initial stages of the war, were overshadowed
by a conspicuously progressive factor brought about by the strong pres-
sure of the will and fighting spirit of the masses in the alliod ma-
tions. The war eventually assumed the character of a struggle of the
peoples of the entire world against predatory imperialism and fascism.
For this very reason, the victory of the allied nations can be inter-
preted as victory of the peoples of the world in a common strugglo
against fascism and imperialism, imperislism both in the Axis nations
and in the Allied nations themselves. Viewed in this light, the Pots-
dam Declaration can be interpreted as a trophy secured by the common
efforts of the peoples of the allies and presented to the people of
Japan. The Declaration, far from being a fetter to the Japanese people,
has provided them for the first time in their history with the basis
upon which to build a peaceful and free nation.
LOSS OF JAPANESE CULTURE
The article bomourns the untimely death in prison of TOSAKA Jun,
a Marxist scholar, and MIkI Kiyoshi, a young liberal philosopher.
THE DAY JAPAN WAS BEATEN, SATA Ichiro
A journalistic account of the tense developments just preceeding
Japan's

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Japan's acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration.
WHAT IS DEMOCRATIC POLITICS, by TAKEUCHI Yu
An elomentary exposition of domocracy.
JIMMIN HYORON (Rovuo de Popolo) Number 2 (Docomber)
PROBLEM OF WAR CRIMINALS, by MATSUMOTO Shim-ichi
Two months after Japan's surrender, thd problem of punishment
of war criminals has now become an irresistible demand of the people
of Japan. The people's onthusiasm in this respect is now so strong that
oven old style politicians now occupying seats in the Diet camnot holp
domanding the punishment of war criminals on the floor of the Diet.
However, the total absence of any committee or organ even to investi-
gate the question of war crimes in detail is to be regretted. The
cause of this inadequacy can be attributed to the fact that the mation
has become aware of such crimes only since the middle of August. It is
to be hoped and expected that there will be set up proper organs for
this purpose in the very near future. The punishment of war criminals
alone will consolidate the political energy of the entire nation for
the solution of pressing national problems. War crimes can be divided
into five categories, namely, crimes for instigating war, crimes for
assuming leadership in the prosecution of war, crimes for having pro-
fited from war, crines for suppressing the fundamental rights of the
people during the war and crimes for having dishonored the country in
the war.
UESTION OF DEMOCRATI∠ING THE CONSTITUTION
This short editorial sees a dangerous tendency with regard to
constitutional revision in the statements made by Premior SHIDEHARA
and Foreign Ministor YOSHIDn as well as in the activities of Princo
KONOYE. In order to forestall the meddling of conservative politi-
cians, the article urges the preparation cf new constitutional drafts
by the people for the purpose of counteracting reactionary attempts
at half measures in revising the constitution and eventually to sue-
ceed in getting an entirely new constitution through a people's cons-
titutional assombly.
SYNTHETIC GJOTA SYSTEM FOR FOODSTUFF COLLECTION, by KONDO YaSuo
The article takes the form of an open letter addressed to the
Ministor of Agriculture suggesting the adoption of what the writer
calls the synthetic quota system for foodstuff collection instead
of the prevailing unflexible crop guota system. The writer places
more omphasis on the question of food collection than on increased
production. He urges, in view of a possible famine, the adoption
of a flexible quot& collection systom, allowing the farmers to sube-
titute farm products for rice beyond the minimum fixed amount of
rice. This would leave a substantial portion of the farmer's rice
output for his own free disposition.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
AM
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITIÇAL
4
Tokyo, Japah, March 25, 1946.
No. 321
SUBJECT: Current Japanese Review Magazines.
15
143
5
H
E
∞ The Secretary of State,
PEPARTE
Waishington.
894.917/
I have the honor to forward as an enclosure a study prepared
by Mr. MATsUO, a member of the staff of this Office, entitled
"Current Japanese Review Magazines".
In his study, Mr. MATsU0 traces the eliminatipe in 1944 of
Jh
(Restoration), and the rise, with Government support, of Koron(Public
FER
-2546
FEC(ERD)
review field. By the end of the war, magazine publication had
almost entirely ceased, in part due to Government suppression,
OCD
and in part to the difficulties of obtaining materials and the
War oc
destruction by bonbing of offices and plants.
navy SA/M
With the end of the war and the rapid lifting of Governmental
restrictions, magazines were slow to reappear because of the diffi-
culties of readjustment and shortage of materials. In October
1945, however, Koron Gendai (Modern Age), and Shinjidai (New Age)
were published, still inherently conservative but doing lip ser-
vice to democratic principles. The following month saw the appear-
ance of a new monthly review named Shinsei (Vita Nova--New Life)
and Jimmin Hyoron (Revuo de Populo-Peoples" Review) an avowedly
leftist monthly. Taihei (Age of Peace) was first published in
CS/VJ
December. At the beginning of 1946, Chuo Koron and Kaizo resumed
publication, and Sekai (The World), a serious magazine (referred
to by critics as a compilation of lectures) was brought out by
Iwanami Shoten. As an index of popularity, these three magazines
are usually sold out within a few hours of their appearance.
Choryu (The Current), devoted to political and economic topics,
also appeared in January 1946.
In February l946, Hyoron (The Review), a standard size period-
ical of acknowledged leftist inclinations was brought out. followed
by Sekai Buaka (World Culture), Sekai Hyoron (World Review), and
Shaka1 Hyoron (Social Review)--to be placed on sale shortly. The
last named is published by a leftist group and is expected to
specialize in Russian affairs. Toward the end of the month, Koron.
Bungei Shunju, and several other wartime magazines were discontimued
3.25
as a result of a decision by the so-called "purge committee" of the
Japan Publishers' Association.
DCR NF Unit
(Literary age)
In evaluating
na
Cat
Diet

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
In evalaating sigmificant traits of Japan's roview magasines,
it is noted that (a) there is a virtual absence of young and new
writers among their contributors; (b) practically no articles
appear on matters pertaining to natural science; and (c) a posmliar
emphasis is placed in all magazines on polemical discussions. In
general, the context of the articles which appear in the review
magazines are too difficult for the general public to understand
and their circle of readers is therefore limited to a relatively
small number of intellectuals. The review magasines, however, have
a definite place among Japan's publications and are, it is believed,
necessary for the guidance of Japan's intelligentsia. : An addi-
tional publication requirement would appear to be a large and com-
tinuous supply of more elementary reading matter in popular and
booklet form to fill the needs of a wade stratum of young people who
have been intellectucally starved for many years.
A list of review magazines currently being published in Japan
is attached as an appendix.
Respectfully your s,
HaewBishop
Max W. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer
"Current Japanese Review
Magazines".
Original and hectograph to Department.
891
WJSebald:vs

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 321 dated March 25, 1946, from
the Office of the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo,
Japan, on the subject "Current Japanese Review Magasines
MEMORANDUM
Current Japanese Revien Magazines
For some years prior to the outbreak of the Pecific War,
the nazification trends in Japan's publicity world had already
been well in progress. For various reasons, however, review
magazines on current problems, so-called sogo hyoron zasshi,
) were slower in losing their traditional liberalistic
traits than other current periodicals, particularly newspapers,
which had been very quick in adapting themselves to the new
situation. Coupled with this tendency, the innate distaste of
militarists and bureaucrats for publications of a serious and
speculative nature had placed the review magazines in an un-
favorable light in comparison with other periodicals and news-
papers, as the Government gradually began to tighten its ∞ntrol
on publications.
With the outbreak of the Pacific War, while the Government,
fully aware of the importance of mobilizing the country's
publicity organs, had attempted to make effective use of news-
papers and other periodicals for "war propaganda", it was not
enthusiastic in exploiting the review magazines. On the contrary.
numerous wartime restrictions imposed by the authorities made it
almost impossible for these magazines to review current events
and problems, their original function and raison d'etre for this
particular type of periodical. As the result, while the three
major magazines, namely Chuo Koron
(Central RertemsPublic Opinion)
Kaizo
(Reconstruction) and Bungei Shuniu
(Literary
Criticism) continued publication, they were mere skeletons of
once lively organs of intellectual opinion.
The weakening of the review magazines became apparent with
the deterioration of the war situation. In 1944, the two out-
standing and long-established Chuo Koron and Kaizo were forced
to suspend publication under Government coercion, and Bungei
Shuniu was thereafter compelled to devote itself exclusively to
literary matters. Another general review magazine of some note,
Nippon Hyoron
(Nippon Review), was changed into an
economic periodical. An upstart megazine of distinctly nation-
alistic inclination, Koron
(Public Opinion), launched
shortly before the war was, with the active support of the
Government quarters, made into the sole major magasine in the
serious review field. It was natural under these circumstances
that the public at this time preferred Shuhe(Weekly In-
formation), published by the Ministry of Information, in pre-
ference to Koron, Gendai
(Modern Age), and one or two
other periodical reviews.
With

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
With the growing shortage  peper resulting from the
disruption of communications and the destruction wrought to
printing facilities in Tokyo and large towns by bombing, even
these limited review periodicals found it extremely difficult
to continue publication toward the end of the war. The
situation at this period was such that it was rumored that even
newspapers, on which the Government apparently relied for most
of its propaganda, would have to cease reguler publication. In
consequence, publishing activities and especially magasine
publication were practically at a stend still when the war ter
minated.
The end of the war opened up a bright and hopeful vista for
publishing activities in general and the magazine field in
particular. Despite the relaxation and eventual abandonment of
war-time controls and restrictions on publications, however,
magazines were generally slow to appear, a phenomenon in con-
trast to newspapers, which did not cease publication throughout
the most eventful and disturbing period in modern Japanese history.
This may be explained to some extent by the fact that newspapers,
having already become virtually organs for information instead
of for public opinion, could devote themselves exclusively to
information and refrain from committments to definite political
opinion. On the other hand, magazines, and particularly review
periodicals, having by their very nature too conspicuously committed
themselves to official nationalistic ideology in their reviews of
current problems, found it rather difficult to adfust themselves.
to the new situation in a short space of time. Moreover., although
there were many very eager to launch new publications in the
periodical review field, they were technically handicapped by the
shortage of paper and lack of printing facilities. Consequently.
both war-time survivors and newcomers in the review magazine
field were slow to make their appearance following the termine-
tion of war.
and
It was some time around October, a monthy a halffter
Japan's surrender, that the magazine world began to resume its
activities on a modest scale. This month saw the reappearance
of Koron. which had remained the only magazine in the review
field, Gendai, published by the Kodansha, which used to cater
mostly to readers in the countryside and Keikokn
(The Statecraft), rechristened with the attrective name of
Shinjidai
(New Age), published by the original Keikokusha.
Whereas most of these review periodicals during the war professed
extreme nationalism, they now reappeared under completely
democratic subterfuge, professing liberalism and freedom with
contributors selected from among relatively "safe" writers. In
spite of their democratic camouflage, however, the inherently
conservetive nature of the periodicals could not be concealed in
their editorial policy.
In early November, however, a long-awaited new monthly review
with the very attractive title Shinsei
, calling itself
Vita Nova in Latin, made its first appearance as a leading new
serious review magazine. Under the editorship of a well-known
free lance writer, MUROBUSE Takanobu, formerly editor of the
Nippon Hyoron
(Japan Review) and a prominent literary
critic. the new magazine marked the beginning of the new direction
of the magazine world in post-war Japan with articles by contributors
from recognized liberal ranks. Although the first issue of the
Shinsei

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3-
Shinsei was rather a makeshift affair with more emphasis
placed on names of contributors than quality of articles, the
magasine was none-the-less sought by the public, who con-
sciously or unconsciously felt doubtful of everything old and
were waiting for something new.
The formal repeal in October of the Peace Preservation Law,
which had effectively restricted freedom of speech and publice-
tion, has opened the magazine world to leftist circles; and it
was in November that a magazine called Jimmin Hyoron
calling itself Revue de Popolo. an avowedly leftist monthly
periodical, was launched by a group of non-partisan leftists
under the leadership of MATSUMOTO Shin-ichi. Although the
initial issue was of an unassuming size and farmat, the publice-
tion actually blazed the trail in this particular field. The
Shinsel. together with the surviving monthly reviews, Koron,
Gendai, and Shinjidai, formed the four main review magazines
in the serious field in November, with Shinsei problably by far
leading the others, both in the quality of contents and circula-
tion.
In December the situation in the review magazine field re-
mained rather quiet with no new mejor periodical of serious
nature appeering, perhaps because would-be enterprises, being
still handicapped by the shortage of paper supply and other
technical difficulties, were waiting for the turn of the year
to launch new publishing ventures. Taihei
, with the
English title "The Age of Peace", was about the only new
periodical in the review field published in this month. This
magazine, published by the Jiji Press (a publishing venture
started by a group of former Domei people), was somewhat lighter
in editorial make-up than Shinsei and the others. Of the
several review magazines of this period, Shinsei was considered
by many es still leading the field because of its grasp of timely
topics and selection of contributors from among such recognized
liberals as BABA Tsunego, MINCBE Tatsukichi, OUCHI Hyoe and
SUZUKI Yasuzo.
Public Opinion
With the reentrance of the old veterans, Chuo Koron
(Central Reriem) and Kaizo
(Reconstruction), together with
the debut of a new review magasine, Sekai
(The World) in
the hands of one of the leading and most energetic publishers,
IWANAMI, the dawn of the new year found the world of review
magazines virtually in full bloom. Chuo Koron boasts of the
record of almost 60 yeers continuous publication although under
different management and editorship, but ably following the
progressive trends of the time; while Kaizo, born during the
turbulent period in the wake of the First World War, had aimed,
from its very beginning, at the progressive tendency in Japan.
Both of these monthly periodicals, regarded as the s tandard of
the review magazines, had somehow managed to continue publica-
tion under increasingly severe censorship until the spring of
1944, when on very flimsy reasons they were told to quit
"voluntarily" the publishing business. Sekai, mentioned above,
wes launched by the IWANAMI Shoten, owned by IWANAMI Shigeo,
himself a men of culture, who had entered into the publishing
venture and built it up as a unique and one of the biggest
publishing

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
publishing houses. Shunning vulgar populerity, IWANAMI has been,
and still is, specializing in publishing books of classical and
supposedly good taste. As was explained in its post-script.
Sekai was published at the suggestion of the members of the
Doshinkai, a group organized by academic, literary and art
circles associated with the IWANAMI Shoten, and was actually entrst-
ed to the editorial management of ABE Yoshinari, an eminent
scholar and friend of IWANAMI, who was later to become Minister
of Education in the SHIDEHARA Cabinet.
With the magnificent parade of the four major review
magazines, namely, Shinsei, Chuo Koron, Kaizo, and Sekai, the
serious magazine field could now be said to have turned out
almost in full, and the former publications in this field have
by this time been thrown into virtual insignificance. At the
same time, the peculiar frame of Japanese mind always preferring
something new regardless of merit, was well reflected in the
fact that while the two periodicals Chuo Koron and Kaizo and
the new magazine Sekai were each sold out within a few hours
after they were put on sale, stacks of unsold Shinsei remained
at book-stores toward the end of the month.
In the opinion of the majority of intellectual readers,
Shinsei in spite of the apparently slackening sale, still
led the field in the January issues of the serious magazines
by virtue of its progressive and vivacious editing, boldly
selecting the most discussed topics of the time and deliberately
choosing its contributors from among recognized liberal writers
and politicans. Some critics, however, stated that the magazine's
articles were too journalistic, were only for passing interest,
and lacked solid cultural value.
The resumed issue of Kaizo, in reflecting the lively per-
sonality of its owners YAMAMOTO Sanehiko, who still holds the
controlling influence in the publication, was quite colorful
and lively in its editorial tendency, with the assistance of
contributors from the wide circle of friends of varied ideological
inclinations with whom YAMAMOTO has been personally aasociated.
Progressiveness combined with popular journalistic interest
remains the keynote of the editorial policy of Kaizo. That the
magagine was the most readable of the four was the general comment
heard among the majority of readers upon its reappearance.
Many a reader expressed slight disappointment at the con
tents of the revived Chuo Koron under the new editorship of Dr.
ROYAMA Masamichi, while some commented thet this was fust as was
to be expected from the personality of the new editor. Dr.
ROYAMA is a scholar of liberal leaning, having been a professor
of politics in the Tokyo Imperial University. He has been moderate
ly active in politics, serving as a member of the recently dissolv-
ed Diet. To those who were accustomed to the old Chuo Loron.
the new issue must have been a draft affair since the magazine
appeared to have followed strictly within the ideological line
of Dr. ROYAMA himself. As far as the first new issue is concerned,
the magazine could be said to be following the line of the conserva-
tive wing of the liberal main current with a relative lack of
journalistic

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
journalistic aggressiveness.
As was to be expected from the story of its emergenop.
briefly touched elsewhere in this article, the tendency of
Sekei :as revealed in the editing of the initial issue was
acknowledgedly conservative or more properly orthodox in the
sense that practically all of the contributors were men of
recognized scholarly and literary achievements. There is no
doubt that the editors seemed to have teken pains in living
up to the traditional IWANAMI standard of correct and good
taste, refusing to include men of extrome nationalistic in-
clination or doubtful personality. As a result, the periodical
presents probably the most solid and sound facade of all four,
although some critics describe the magazine as a compilation
of lectures to college students.
While the four major review magazines described above
are vieing each other for leadership in the intellectual world,
each of the four inevitably has special field of appeal varying
according to the ideological and personal slant of their
editors. For instance, Shinsei will most probebly appeal to
young intellectuals of progressive leaning, while Kaizo and
Chuo Koron will be welcomed by old time intellectuals who were
thrilled by the erstwhile radicalism of the two magazines over
a decade a go. Sekal, on the other hand, will be widely read
by men of literary and academic culture as well as by large
strata of college students who had attained intellectual
meturity in the past ten years or so through reeding IWANAMI's
classical and academic books. As things stand, it is hard to
say which of the four is likely to take the leadership in in-
fluencing the important strata of intellectural reading public
but it is at least sefe to say that if Shinsei would change its
present loose leaf binding into regular magazine format, it
will certainly become a formideble rival to the two long
established Kaizo and Chuo Koron, while Sekai would continue
to have limited although steady subscribers.
In addition to the above-mentioned four magazines, there
also appeared in January a new megazine called Choryu
(The Current), devoted to political and economic topics.
Apparently due to limited circulation, the magazine seems to
have reached only a small group of readers. SAsSA Hiro, of the
editorial staff of Asahi, was said to be the leading figure
supporting the periodical.
The four major review magazines continued to lead the
field in Februery, each following practically the same ed-
itorial characteristics as in January. There was, however,
observed a slight change in the editorial slant of Shinsei,
probably because of the rumored departure from the editorial
staff of MUROBUSE. Increased emphasis on the literary section
and the relative easing of ideological inclinations were apparent
in the Febru ry issue of the Shinsei, clearing indicating a
slight shifting in its editorial policy. Of the four, Kaizo
with its colorful editing still continued to be the favorite of
the intellectual reading public.
February

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
February also saw the cropping up of a few new review
magazines. The first that came to our notice was Hyoron 
(The Review), published by the Kawaide Shobo. The magazine
was the first standard sized periodical of acknoiledgely
leftist inclination and contained articles by MATSUmOTO Shin-
ichi, ARISAWA Hiromi, NAKANISHI Ko and other leftist intellectuals.
Apparently following a non-partisan line, the course this
magazine is to take in the future and how it is to develop will
be of some interest to those watching the tide of leftist move-
ments in Japan. Sekai Bunka
(The World Culture),
published by the Nippon Dempo Tsushin-sha, was another addition
to the review periodical field. MIZUSHIMA Haruo, formerly on
the editorial staff of the Chuo Koron. is the editor of the
magazine, which, despite its name, does not confine itself
exclusively to reviewing world events. "Efforts for Peace".
a memoir of Prince KONOrE is the special feature of the initial
issue of the Sekai Bunka.
Another addition to the field was Sekai Hyoron
(The World Review), which was quite progressive in the line-up
of its contributors. Beside discussing crucial internal questions
of timely interest such as the problem of Emperor System, democra-
tization of national life, etc., the magasine, true to its name,
devoted considerable space to questions of international importance.
Although still in the course of printing, Shakai Hyoron
(Social Review) is said to be put on sale shortly to add to the
already swollen front of review magazines. This publication will
be turned out by the Nauka-sha, a leftist publishing house, and
is expected to specialize in Russian affairs.
In spite of this formidable array of serious review magazines,
it may still be safe to assume that the four original major re-
view magazines, Shinsei, Kaizo, Chuo Koron, and Sekai. have con-
tinued and will continue for some time to come to remain the lead-
ing review periodicals most widely read by the intelligentsia of
Japan. How this considerable number of serious review magazines
will continue to sustain themselves in the face of the growing
financial straits of the nation in the future is a question which
sooner or later must be tackled by the publishers themselves. They
are there, however, and all of them no doubt will contribute to
the intellectual enrichment of a grateful reading public. In the
meantime, an announcement made toward the end of February by the
so-called "purge committee" of the Japan Publishers' Association
revealed that as the result of its careful investigations, Koron.
Bungei Shunfu and a few other survivors of the war would discontinue
publication altogether assuming responsibility for their "war guilt".
There is no doubt, however, that even without such drastic steps
those periodicals which played important roles during the war will
sooner or later find themselves in difficulties in the face of
aggressive onslaught by "democratic" magazines.
In concluding this study, let the writer point out some of
the significant common traits of Japan's review magazines which
in his opinion reflect in a strikingly characteristic way the
peculiar aptitudes of the Japanese intelligentsia in general. The
first significant feature common to all of these periodicals, most
characteristically noticeable in the four major magazines, is the
virtual absence of young and new writers among their contributors,
practically all of whom are men of or beyond middle age. This is
particularly

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
particularly so in the case of progressive writers. The fact
is deplored by more than one critic as conclusively proving
the pitiable state of intellectual blankness in which Japan has
been placed in the past ten years or more of military dominance.
The situation is indeed copy in miniature of the general con-
ditions prevailing on a national scale. The intellectual vacuum
of the past decade is now causing questions of varied complexities
in all aspects of national life and it is in fact a question of
first class importance to be taken seriously into consideration
in the study of post-war Japan.
The second point of significance which is also common to
most of the review magazines in Japan is the lack of articles on
questions of natural science. As in the above-mentioned case this
is also the unconscious reflection of one of the typical traits
of the present day Japanese minds. Although very much conscious
of the importance of natural science per se, most Japanese pay
little attention to application of the achievements of natural
science to their every day life. While inordinately emphasising
the polemics in social science, the review magazines generally
avoid discussions of scientific matters, which they feel should
properly be taken care of by scientific journals. Such an
attitude on the part of the major review magazines probably comes
from the fact that not only average readers regard popular articles
on natural science as something beneath their intellectual
stendard but that natural scientists are generally considered as
a particular group of scholars who have nothing to do with social
or national problems of current interest, a strange but unfortunate
situation which has considerebly retarded the modernization of
national life as a whole.
The peculiar emphasis on polemical discussions usually
characterizes the contents of most of the serious periodicals,
forming the third significant point common to all magazines. As
the result of this tendency, abstract theoretical discussions,
instead of concrete propositions based on factual figures, form
the substance of most of the articles, which, therefore, serve
as poor material for actual political and economic requirements.
These characteristic shortcomings notwithstanding, we have
certainly before us a magnificent array of review magazines
almost unprecedented in the history of Japanese periodicals. The
crucial question, however, is whether this phenomenon actually
ushers in an era of rapid intellectual diffusion in the direction
of democratization of Japan. While having no doubt that these
periodicals, unanimously upholding the ideals of democracy, will
not fail to promote the country's democratization in general, the
writer feels, however, that this exuberant birth of magazines does
not in itself guarantee swift intellectual diffusion among the
entire nation, because those who are able to digest the articles
of these magazines would after all form a limited group. Most of
the articles in these magazines are too hard to understand for
most common readers and particularly so for the majority of
younger readers who sorely lack preparatory knowledge to fully
understand what the writers mean to say. Thus, while the existence
of really good review magazines is vitally necessary as a healthy
intellectual guide, one of the most urgent needs for Japan at this
time

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
time of her important political and cultural transition, which
is still comparatively ignored by many, is for the Japanese
publishing world to supply reading matters of elementary but
basic democratic vintage. This should be supplied both in
popular periodical form and in booklets distributed to wide
strata of the younger generation in the country districts, who,
having either been demobilized from the armed forces or dis
missed from munitions factories, are utterly dismayed ideologically
and are said to be desperately thirsty for knowledge to fill their
intellectual void. Welcome though this colorful review magazine
parade is, it is to be hoped that both the publishing world it-
self and the authorities in charge of the educational and
cultural reform in Japan will pay more attentiofgthis aspect
of the situation in order that not only the intellectual standard
of the Japanese willbe heightened and broadened but also that
knowledge and intellect will be diffused as much as possible
among the common people of the ontire nation.
Matsuhei Matsuo

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
A List of Revien Magazines in Japan
Name of Magazines
Name of Publishers
Month of First Lesue
Shinsei
(Vita Nova)
Shinsei-sha
October, 1945
Kaizo
(Reconstruction) Kaizo-sha
January, 1946
Public Opinion
Chuo Koron
(Central ) Chuo Koron-
sha
January, 1946
Sekai
(The World)
Iwanami Shoten
January, 1946
Choryu
(The Current) Choryu-sha
January, 1946
Hyoron
(Review)
Kawaide Shobo
February, 1946
Sekai Bunka
Nippon Dempo
(World Culture) Tsushin-sha
February, 1946
Sekai Hyoron
Sekai Hyoron-sha
February, 1946
(World Review)
Shakai Hyoron
Nauka-sha
March, 1946
(Social Review)
Asahi Hyoron
Asahi Shimbun
Unknown
(Asahi Review)
Jimmin Hyoron
Jimmin-sha
November, 1945
(Revuo de Popolo)
(Peoples Raview)

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
ER(Miss B)
copies to
CA
No. 16
OCD
AMERICAN CONSULATE
August 22, 1946
Unrestricted
Li
SUBJECT: Transmitting Copies of First Issue of
57
Magazine Entitled New Taiwan Monthly.
BRANCH
3
PM
R
ns appraisal made
THEHONGRABLE
ny Comment.
u
R
EP
THE ECRETARY OF STATE.
894.917/8-2246
S
2
WASHINGTON.
8141917/7-2046
SIR:
XP 12
I have the honor to refer to the Consulate's des-
patch no. 13 of July 30, 1946 entitled "Statement Sup-
plied by Consulate Upon Occasion of Inauguration of
The New Taiwan Monthly" and to transmit herewith five
copies of the first issue of that magazine.
The Department may find of intorest the article
REFORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SEP 9 - 1946
hich conmences on page 1l of this officially sponsored
Independence accorded the administration on Taiwan as
tompared to that enjoyed by provincial governments on
he mainland of China. In another article on page 13,
an criticising the marked diminution in popular enthu-
hasm for Chinese control of Taiwan, there appears the
omewhat potulant statement that Formosan-Chinese
homes and farms."
ACQUISITION AND DISTRISUTION
The frequent references in the magazine to General
Two(2
DISTHBUTION CTION
AVIS ON OF INTELLIGENCE
Chen Yi (陳  ) as the "Governor" of Taiwan are
S
S
not in accord with local usage on the island where he
V
is officially designated as the "Governor General" and
the governing organization as the "Government General."
Respoctfully yours,
ek ake
Ralph J. Blake
American Consul
retamed (a.
enel
Enclosure
Five copies of New Taiwan Monthly.
AUL 27 1941
In original and ozalid to Department.
FILED
Copies to Embassy, Nanking and Consulate
General, Shanghai (each with one capy
JF Init
of enclosure).
Ralph J. Blake/klc
PET

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
刊月文英灣台新
NEW TAIWAN MONTHLY
AUGUST. 1946
# 16, Cons, Taipei(Taihoku), Taiwan(Formosa)
getl 'tebry patep

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.79)
臺灣省簡
MAP OF TAIW MOSA
双明

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
THE NEW TAIWAN MONTHLY
August, 1946
Publisher & Editor
Stanway Cheng
CONTENTS
Page
Foreword
3
Taiwan Liberation
4
Lure of Taiwan
5
An Epic Past, A Brilliant Future
6-7
China's Largest Island
8
Head-hunting of Aborigines
9-10
A Unique Administrative System
11-12
Asset or Liability?
13-14
Governor Sees Democracy Future Bright
15
A Fertile Land With Rich Resources
16-17
Pictorials
18-26
Taiwan Sugar
27
Marine Resources
28-30
Christian Church and New Taiwan
31-32
Organizational Chart of Taiwan
34
Chronology of Events
35-38
Published on the fifteenth of each month by the New Taiwan
Publishing Co., Ltd. at Taipei, Taiwan. Business Office is located
at 31/702, Gordon Road, Shanghai.
The magazine is being registered with the Ministry of Interior
and the Ministry of Information through the Office Of The Governor
of Taiwan.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
IN REPLY REFER TO
FILE NO.BJB/K1C
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DSPARTMENT OF STATC
AMERICAN CONSULATE:
Taipe1 (Taihoku), Taiwan (Pormosa)
July 30, 1946
My dear Mr. Chang:
The publication of a magasine such as The New
Taiwan Monthly for the purpose of furnishing to the
outside world information concerming this beautiful
and productive island will fill a vory great need.
After the long years of silence imposed on Taiwan,
the aim of providng an objective roport to the world
on conditions in Taiwan is indeed commendable.
It seems particularly appropriate that the
first issue of the magasine should appear on the
anniversary of Japan's unconditional surrender.
The presentation of a clear picture of Taiwan with
1ts past background, present problems and potenti-
alities, and its moans of contributing to the future
welfare of the world will surely assist grsatly in
furthering the national policy of China based upon
the "Open Door" prineiple. The latter, you have
informod me, will be a major objective or this new
publication.
You, a publisher and editor, are to be con-
gratulated for your efforts in inaugurating The Now
Taiwan Monthly, which is deserving of every good
wish for a long and successful existence.
Sincerely yours,
Raeph heaks
Raiph(5. Blake
American Consul
Mr. Stanway Cheng
Publisher and Editor
The New Taiwan Monthly,
Taipei, Taiwan.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
FOREWORD
Taiwan is a tiny, obscure
the first anniversary of Japan's lay-
spot on the map of the world. It
ing down of arms and unconditional
was not until during the last stages
surrender, will be an independent
ofWorld War II that this seem-
and objective publication presenting
ingly insignificant link of the former
only facts and pertinent information
Japanese Empire flared into the
about Taiwan. It will try to help
world limelight as a center of Allied
cultivate a better understanding of
bombing  and a possible stepping-
Taiwan by giving its readers an in-
stone for a landing. At the Cairo
formative picture on things in Tai-
Conference, it was decided that Tai-
wan which will undoubtedly closely
wan should be returned to China's
link up with the maintenance of peace
sovereignty in accordance with the
in the Pacific and the prosperity of
principle then laid down for strip-
the world. Whatever little of this
ping Japan of all her territcries she
purpose may be achieved by this
annexed by force.
magazine will more than compensate
for the labor involved in bringing
To the 6,000,000 Chinese in Tai-
forth its publication.
wan, Victory means their own libera-
tion and Peace brings to them a new
The first issue of The New Taiwan
lease of life. Fifty-one years of
Monthly is intended to give a general
alien domination were brought to an
background information about Tai-
end as China officially tcok back
wan. More recent developments in
Taiwan from Japan on October 25th,
the conditions there will be discussed
1945. The Chinese administration
in the later issues which will be pub-
in Taiwan has since been trying to
lished on the fifteenth of each month.
make it a New Taiwan which will
become the prize province of China.
Thanks are due to Prof. James
The outside world, including the
Pott of St. John's University of
bulk of the Chinese themselves, has
Shanghai for his painstaking efforts
as yet known very little about this
in reading over the copies and to
beautiful, potential and fairly well-
Mr. Robert J. Catto, Director of
developed island. In the past, the
Taiwan office, U.S.I.S., for his va-
Japanese have made it their national
luable suggestions.
policy to shut Taiwan off from the
eyes and ears of the world, for be-
To all others who have endorsed
hind the iron curtain had been built
this little project of ours and to all
the reservoir and springboard of
our new friends whom we may ac-
Japan's bold southward invasion.
quire as time goes on, we are equally
Hence under Nippon administration,
grateful for their goodwill and
information about Taiwan, especially
guidance.
in the English language, had been
both scattered and scanty. The New
Publisher and Editor
Taiwan Publishing Co., Ltd. attempts
to meet this longfelt need for describ-
ing Taiwan with its past background,
present problems and future possi-
bilities to the world in line with
China's policy based on the "Open
Door."
The New Taiwan Monthly, with
its first issue scheduled to be out on

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Creed for Taiwan Liberation
It was by just the following few
words that the liberation of Taiwan,
annexed to Japan since 1895, was
assured:
"Japan shall be stripped of all ter-
ritory acquired by aggression
since 1895."
Hats off from 6,000,000 Taiwan
Chinese to the late President Roose-
velt, the then Premier Churchill and
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek who
met at Cairo and agreed on a detailed
pattern for Victory and Peace in
ihe Far East. .The above clause,
which guaranteed the future destiny
of Taiwan, was included in a short,
decisive announcement jointly issued
by The Big Three at the conclusion
of the Cairo Conference on Nevem-
ber 27, 1943.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
THE LURE OF TAIWAN—PARADISE
OF THE EAST
"Go southward to the Isle of no winter,
Where there is no snow to be seen,
And Spring prevails while home is of seven;
Live in the Isle of flowers that flatter,
For the land is decked with colors in winter.
To enjoy your life there better"—
These are Verses by Portuguese
etc. In the sea north of Taiwan,
sailors who in the sixteenth century
coral is produced, while in the south
called Taiwan "Ilha Formosa." The
about the Boko Island (of Pesca-
people living in Taiwan do not know
dores) a rare stone called "bunseki"
winter, their abodes are sur-
is to be found. Rice and sugar, the
two staple products on vhich Tai-
rounded by evergreens all the
wan chiefly depends economically, are
year around and the flowers
found in abundant quantities.
never
stop
blooming
with
Mountaineering here is a thrill to
luxuriant, beautiful blossoms of all
be experienced nowhere else, for Tai-
shades and colors. Foreign travellers
wan contains 48 mountains each to-
called Taiwan a perpetual garden be-
wering more than 11,000 ft. above
cause of its scenic beauty.
sea level and offering a challenge to
adventurousmountaineers.
Hot
Fruits of delicious flavcrs are
springs are present throughout the
bountifully ripening in the central
Island and sea beaches dot the coastal
regions of Taiwan, from pineapples,
areas that make ideal resorts for the
bananas, mangoes, papaya, raichu to
Taiwan residents and travellers from
all rare species of the citrus family
such nearby places as Shanghai,
such as buntan, ponkan, zabon, peeyu,
Hongkong and Manila.
Taiwan is an island which rises
thousand years old.
from the sea to a height of 13,000
feet, reached at the summit of
Up to June 1, there were 1,037,034
Mt. Arisan. Almost two-thirds of the
students in all grades of schools in
Taiwan with a teaching and adminis-
entire area of the island is moun-
trative staff of 19,786 persons as
tainous. Taiwan is covered with many
against 886,868 students and a staff
dense forests. The famous Arisan
of 9,358 under the Japanese. Figures
forest is located east of Kagi in
for the National Taiwan University
Central Taiwan. It cousists of red
are not included because it directly
cypress, Mongolian oak and hemlock.
belongs to the Ministry of Education
Many trees are more than three
in Nanking.
5

=== Page 45 === (confidence 1.00)
AN EPIC PAST, A BRILLIANT FUTURE
According to the Chinese annals,
Having seen the successful inva-
Taiwan came into history in 605
sion of the Dutch, the Spaniards fol-
A. D. during the Sui Dynasty. It
lowed the same step by dispatching
was recorded that a certain Mon-
a fleet to drive out the Japanese
golian, Ho Man, 'visited the island
pirates near Keelung and thereupon
and was surprised to find that the
occupied it which was in turn taken
region was settled by savages.
over by the Dutch after the expulsicn
Coming again after his return, he
of the Portuguese.
raided the villages and went back
to the mainland in triumph. We
Waves of refugees rushed to the
don't know how much truth is in the
island with the overthrow of the
semi-legendary and semi-historical
Ming Dynasty in the middle of the
tale. However, we know for certain
17th century. One of these immi-
that for centuries Taiwan
was
grants, Cheng Cheng-kung, expelled
a paradise of adventurers.
It
the Europeans and established a rule
was also a place to which convicts
lasting from 1662 to 1683. Cheng
were exiled from the Chinese coast.
worked hard to better the conditions
No one know exactly when the first
of the island, proving himself a wise
man stepped on this island, but it
and able administrator; but unfortu-
was supposed that Taiwanese an-
nately fcr the island as well as for
cestry dated as far back as two
the Ming Dynasty, he died within a
thousand years ago and belonged to
year after his invasion. His rule
the Malayan stock.
was continued by his descendants, till
in July, 1683, his grandson surrender-
In 1367 A. D., the Chinese appoint-
ed to the Manchu forces sent by the
ed a Governor-General to Boko, an
Emperor Kang Hsi.
island in the Taiwan Strait between
the Chinese Mainland and Taiwan,
The unsuccessful administration of
although we know little about the
the Tsin Dynasty in Taiwan led to
history of Chinese immigration to
constant rebellions and insurgent
this beautiful island. Later, Ameri-
movements. A serious one occurred
cans discovered that Chinese pirates
in1669.
had been settled in southwest Tai-
wan while Japanese pirates used
It was not until the middle of the
the harbor of Keelung as their base.
nineteenth century that Englishmen
Towards the end of the 16th century,
and Americans focused their interest
the Japanese Government granted
on the island. Under their pressure,
charters to their merchants in Tai-
the Peking government opened some
wan to trade with Burma, Annam,
ports, including Tansui, Takao, and
and Java. In 1615, the Governor-
Anping, for international trade.
General in Nagasaki failed in an
Gradually tea, sugar and camphor
attempt to occupy the leaf-like island.
were exported and missionaries came
in.
In the beginning of the 16th cen-
tury, a Dutch admiral took refuge
Japan by then was watching for
in the Pescadores after being defeat-
a chance to participate in the interest
ed by the Portuguese in Swatow.
shared by Americans and English-
Taiwan was discovered and was
men. It happened that some Ryukiu
called "Ilha Formosa," the Beautiful
fishermen were killed by the savages
Island, by the Portuguese sailors.
in the sea south of Taiwan. The
He at once realized the economic and
Peking Government did not hold itself
military importance of Taiwan.
responsible for the savages, so that
After the formal Dutch occupation,
with the pretext of punishing these
the Chinese promised to exchange
lawless aborigines the Japanese form-
Taiwan for the Pescadores.
ed an expedition with foreign aid.
6

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
(Note: At that time Ryukiu was one
Taiwanese public opinion roared
of China's outlying dependencies and
against the decision, the Taiwan local
Taiwan was under Chinese adminis-
authority declared on May 23, 1895,
trative jurisdiction. The killing of
the establishment of the Taiwan Re-
Ryukiu fishermen by the aborigines
public and was ready to resist the
in Taiwan was purely a Chinese
coming invaders.
domestic issue. The sending of an
expeditionary force can only be con-
On Oct. 12, 1895, the Japanese
sidered as Japan's early intention to
officially occupied the island, but their
subdue Taiwan.) After discovering
declaration only marked the begin-
the Japanese conspiracy, foreign
ning of the difficulties which they
support was withdrawn, hence the
confronted in the fifty years' occupa-
avasion was unsuccessful. A little
tion. Guerrilla warfare, underground
later the French blockaded west Tai-
activity and revenge of every kind
wan and occupied Keelung and it
kept the oppressor restless and ner-
was with the conclusion of the
vous. The Japanese themselves ac-
Franco-Chinese Treaty that the
knowledged that every two or three
French removed the blockade and
years there was a rebellion of a
withdrew their occupation troops.
serious nature. And more rebellions
The Japanese and the French inva-
have occurred since the Lukouchiao
sions stimulated the Peking Govern-
outbreak in 1937.
ment to introduce reforms in Taiwan.
Railroads were built, a telegraphic
Upon the surrender of the Japan-
system established, ores mined and
ese in August, 1945, Taiwan was re-
electric lights shone all over the is-
covered to China after half-a-century
land for the first time in China. Ġut
of Japanese rule. Oct. 25, 1945,
the new and good policy was rather
the day of Japan's formal surrender
short-lived. By the Treaty of Shi-
of Taiwan, will live long in the his-
monoseki, Taiwan was to be ceded as
tory of Taiwan as the dawn of a
a part of the indemnity to Japan.
new and glorious future.
Taiwan has been a hotbed of re-
A total of Y.688,984,000 of the
bellious and insurgent movements;
notes issued by the banks of Taiwan
so hot that an old saying goes:
and endorsed by the Bank of Japan
"There occurs in Taiwan a minor
was frozen by an order of the Chi-
rebellion in every three years and
nese administration last November.
a major one in every five years."
In addition, Y.56,606,865 worth of
Japanese banknotes was also with-
drawn from circulation in Taiwan by
Lack of technical personnel, equip-
an order.
ment and capital were cited as
China's handicaps in the taking-over
and administration of Taiwan, ac-
cording to an editorial in the Ta
Kung-pao June 5, 1946. The journal
pointed out that China as a whole
The Department of Finance has
should bear major responsibility for
taken over from the former Japan-
the success or failure of her rule of
ese Governor-General's Office pro-
Taiwan.
perty and equipment of a national
nature amounting to Y.589,079,238.
7

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
TAIWAN AS CHINA'S LARGEST ISLAND
With a total area of 13,944 square
June till the middle of September.
miles which is more than twice the
The hottest month is July, during
size of the Hawaiian Islands, Taiwan
which month the temperature may
is the biggest island of China.
rise to 97o F. However, it is a relief
It consists of the main island and
.to know that the average tempera-
some 64 small islands in the Pesca-
ture is only 81°- F. At times, the
dores, and a dozen or more other
climate is damp and malarious. The
islands lying off the coast of the main
average rainfall is about 2,500 mm..
island. Lapped by the waves of the
the average monthly humidity being
Pacific in the west and separated by
80 (100 being saturation point).
the Strait of Taiwan from the China
Typhoons originating from the sea
Mainland in the east, Taiwan is
immediately south of the Island fre-
China's southern sea-outpost.
quently sweep over the island caus-
ing inestimable damage. Luckily,
In shape, Taiwan resembles very
the violence of the wind is warded
much a tobacco-leaf divided by the
off by the high mountains of the
Central Mountain Ranges into rocky,
Island.
mountainous regions on the east and
wide, fertile plains in the west.
High Mountains But Short Rivers
Taiwan is about 264 miles in length
and 60 to 80 miles in width, lying
Another thing of interest is that
between 21º45' and 25°38' North
snow-clad mountains can be found in
latitude and 120°2' and 122°6' East
this island of everlasting summer.
longitude. The Tropic of Cancer
Some 48 mountains over 10,000 ft.
bisects the island into two climatic
clothed in virgin forests exist in Tai-
regions.
wan. The highest and most famous
of all is Mt. Niitaha being 13,075 ft.
A Semi-Tropical Clirmate
high with a famed volcanic peak
known as Daiton around which are
a number of hot springs.
Generally speaking, the climate in
the north belongs to the temperate
Due to its tropical climate and the
zone, the heat to a great extent being
abundance of rainfall, erosion is ac-
reduced by the sea breezes and show-
tive, and the rivers are short and
ers. Even on the hottest days, it is
swift, very often changing into tor-
cool indoors and in the shade, and at
rents and rapids on the way.
midnight the air is rather chilly,
while the climate in the South takes
on the true tropical color. In sum-
According to the census taken in
mer, the north is visited by rains: in
1943, Taiwan had a population of
winter, the south.
6,585,841 Of the total, 6,185,
076 were natives and Chinese
Spring comes to Taiwan in March
and 399,865 were Japanese and
and leaves at the end of May. Dur-
Koreans. Among the natives are
ing the season, Taiwan is like a young
some 160,000 aborigines who dweH
girl in a spring garden, with all
in rocky, mountainous regions. The
colors and perfume. The atmosphere
aborigines may again be divided into
is gay and hopeful. It might almost
two main groups, namely, the un-
be said that the island is enjoying
civilized and the semi-civilized. The
an endless vacation. Nevertheless,
former live in the mountains lesding
the air in the South is comparatively
primitive lives, while the latter in-
hot where the temperature often re-
termingle with the Chinese and have
gisters 90° F. and lasts from
adopted the Chinese mode of living.
8

=== Page 48 === (confidence 1.00)
Life of Aborigines in Taiwan Heights
WHERE HEAD-HUNTING MEANS
BRAVERY
Lending much color and interest to
Ferocious Aborigines
Taiwan are the aborigines of the
The aborigines of the North, es-
island. They can be divided into two
pecially the Taiyals, are brave,
main groups, namely, the savages
merciless and ferocious. They used
and the semi-civilized natives. The
to consider head-hunting the first aim
former, or "Shen-fan" live in the
of their life. Lurking in their hiding
mountains, amid bushes, killing and
places, behind rocks or amid bushes,
fighting as their passion dictates.
the aborigines try to murder as many
Though primitive and superstitious,
men as possible. Intimate friends
they live in accordance with their
are killed, not to mention enemies,
own traditional customs; while the
upon the slightest provocation; for
latter or "Shou-fan" live on the
(1) they are by nature highly
plains and mix with the Chinese,
ferocious and (2) they gave vent
adopting some civilized modes of
living. Both are found to be of
to their emotion on every occasion.
Malayan stock.
Nevertheless, they are not without
virtues; i.e. adultery is not tolerated;
The bulk of the Taiwan aborigines
the aged and the young are loved and
are still leading a primitive life in the
protected; injustices and inconsis-
mountainous districts, but of late
tencies are avoided. They are always
years they have been leaving the up-
independent, simple and honest in
lands in increasing numbers to dwell
their dealings. Strangely it seems the
on the plains as well as in the areas
aborigines are very particular about
close to the foot of the mountains,
etiquette. To improve their appea-
sharing the benefits of modern civi-
rance, men and women pull out the
lization. Classified by their bodily
two lateral incisors from the upper
features, customs, languages, eic.,
jaws, and to show their bravery,
there are seven groups or tribes,
skulls are hung around waists. The
namely, Taiyal, Saiset, Bunun, Tsou,
women wear dresses and have gaudy
Paiwan, Ami, and Yami, divided into
headgears. Tattooing is universal.
367 villages with 27,098 households
Sign Of Courage
and a population of 162,031, as
enumerated at the end of 1942. An-
Head-hunting was mostly practised
nual statistics show that while the
by the aborigines of the North and
total population and the number of
the Central East. Few are the
households are steadily increasing,
braves who have not collected at least
the number of villages is markedly
ten skulls.
The severed heads
decreasing. The following figures
are often boiled to separate the flesh
represent the aboriginal population
and the skulls are washed and
of Taiwan at the end of 1943:—
No. of House-
Popula-
Percent-
holds
tion
Male
Female
age
Taiyal
7,491
39,065
19,394
19,671
24.1
Saiset
317
1,864
942
922
1.2
Bunun
2,034
17,519
9,011
8,508
10.8
Tsou
409
2,363
1,275
1,088
1.5
Paiwan
9,020
44,627
22,603
22,024
27.5
Ami
7,430
54,991
27,705
27,286
33.9
Yami
397
1,602
855
747
1.0
Total
27,098
162,031
81,785
80,246
100.0
9

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
adorned with crude ornaments. The South are mild and peace-loving.
heads are carefully preserved as
Most of them are engaged in farming
trophies.
and are comparatively civilized. The
Japanese had a hard time in bring-
Head-hunting was practised for
ing the northern aborigines into sub-
various purposes; i.e. to settle a dis-
jugation. Raids and rebellions were
pute, to win a woman, to avenge
often started by the aborigines
their friends or relatives, to show
against Japanese authorities who
bravery and strength and to prevent
in
an epidemic.
inhuman in their
exploitation
In some districts, it is said, the
1912, as many as 661 police were
young men sleep in the skull chamber
in order to be inspired with courage.
killed and 886 wounded in the raidg.
Another strange custom is that they
not to mention the number of non-
bury the dead in a sitting posture
combatants killed. Barbed wire and
mixed police composed of Japanese
under the bed on which the latter has
expired. Since only the strong and
and subjugated aboriginals were set
brave can elicit admiration and
up along the frontiers to prevent
esteem from his fellow men, the
further riots and killing. Indeed,
aborigines are trained from infancy
great effort and money were spent on
to be warrior hunters, as well as
the subjugating campaigns. How-
peasants. They are experts in run-
ever, the aborigines with their primi-
ning great distances over mountains
tive weapons remained stubborn and
resisted with all their might against
and fields, crossing large, deep rivers,
climbing rocks and trees. In fact,
modern, mechanized equipment.
in nimbleness and agility, the abori-
The series of unspeakable horrors,
gines are unequalled in the world.
battles, cruelty and treachery used in
Today, head-hunting is done only in
isolated places and is strictly banned
the subjugating campaigns were un-
by the Government.
forgettable and bred indelible hatred
in the hearts of the unhappy abori-
gines. This explains how when the
Peaceful Aborigines Too
Japanese surrendered, they happily
sent representatives to pay respects
Contrary to their ferocious cousins
to Governor Chen and pledge
of the North, the aborigines of the
allegiance.
Beginning from April 1, 1946, the
issue a new currency in Taiwan that
Taiwan governmental
accounting
will replace the present banknotes.
system was placed on a Chinese fiscal
The new currency, also in the form
year basis. The budget for the year
of banknotes with denominations of
ending December 31, 1946, was given
ones, fives, tens, fifties, hundreds and
as Y.2,441,542,000.
five hundreds, is being exchanged
with the old notes at par. The total
The Executive Yuan has given per-
note issue of the new notes is not
mission to the Bank of Taiwan to
to exceed Y.3,000,000,000.
10

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Taiwan Has
A UNIQUE ADMINISTRATIVE SYSTEM
When the Chinese Government an-
various departments, committees, and
nounced late in August last year the
bureaus which form the nucleus of
establishment of an Office Of The
the Office Of The Governor of Tai-
Governor for the administration of
wan.
Taiwan, it was instituting a unique
form of local government in China's
The institution of a unique pro-
political structure. The decision to
vincial administration was both
have an Office Of The Governor in
necessary and effective. In taking
Taiwan instead of an ordinary pro-
over the administration after 51
vincial government was to meet the
years of Japanese rule, it was im-
emergency needs of the nation to
perative for the new setup to be as
occupy, to take-over and to adminis-
close to the old Japanese structure
ter this outlying unit of China with
and to be as free from government
efficiency. The idea was to have a
regimentation as possible. It was
stream-lined organization with plenty
pointed out that any sudden change
of authority to decide and to act on
in the administrative system in the
the spot.
initial period of the transfer would
result in undue confusion. The new
On the top of the Office Of The
system of the Office Of The Governor
Governor is the Governor who is con-
was therefore intended to close any
currently the Commander-in-Chief of
gap or to prevent any organizational
the Garrison General Headquarters,
defects in this transitional period.
thereby combining both the adminis-
Another helpful step on the part
trative and the military authority
of the National Government to Tai-
into one. Unlike the governor in a
wan was the temporary maintenance
normal provincial government, the
of its local currency. This practice,
Governor in Taiwan is the supreme
as a reward to the 6,000,000 Taiwan
head of the administration under the
Chinese for having suffered under
authority vested in him by the Cen-
the Japanese for half a century, was
tral Government. In an ordinary
designed not to tie Taiwan's economy
provincial government, the governor
too closely with the rest of China
is at the same time a member of the
where inflation and economic in-
provincial government committee and
stability were draining the national
important matters are carried out
economic life.
2
through committee action only.
In the ten months of Taiwan ad-
For the sake of expediency, the
ministration, the Chinese authorities
Governor in Taiwan directs and
did face some difficulties although the
supervises all Central Government
path has been generally smooth.
-organizations and personnel stationed
Some of the difficulties, such as the
in Taiwan. This is different from
shortage of rice and fertilizers, were
other provinces where the governor
not foreseen by the administration.
has no authority over Central Govern-
ment agencies or representatives who
The shortage of foodstuffs and
refer directly to their superiors in
fertilizers was the chief obstacle
Nanking for advice.
encountered by the administration.
Due to Japan's failure in importing
Under the Governor in Taiwan is
fertilizers in the last few war years
the Secretary-General who is also in
and due to typhoons and hoarding,
overall charge of the Taiwan ad-
the problem of food shortage reached
ministration and is responsible only
serious proportions last January and
to the Governor. Under the Governor
February, when the authorities gave
and the Secretary-General are the
up rationing in favor of free transac-
11

=== Page 51 === (confidence 1.00)
tions of rice. The situation is great-
porarily retained by the Chinese
ly alleviated now as a result of the
Government.
harvesting of the early summer rice
Maintenance of peace and order
crop and the importation of fertili-
was the next thorny problem of the
zers.
administration
at thatearly
period. Then communication difficul-
In the matter of personnel, the
ties and unemployment problems
Office Of The Governor is making
also
occupiedthe
undivided
every effort to enlist qualified Taiwan
attention of the provincial authori-
Chinese into government service.
ties. Much has been achieved in
Up to June 1, 1946, of the 43,472
solving these problems, more is yet
persons in the employ of the Office
to be done; especially in the sprea
Of The Governor and its subsidiary
of education and the Mandarin, lan-
organizations, 32,804 or 75.46 per
guage, in the improvement of com-
cent are Taiwan Chinese. Only
iunication net-works and in the re-
3,640 or 8.37 percent came from the
sumption of industries to give jobs
China Mainland and the rest are the
to the unemployed and to increase
Japanese technical civilians tem-
low production.
Japanese Technicians Retained
A total of 7,018 Japanese civilian
Persons Depen-
personnel is being retained by the
dents
Chinese authorities in Taiwan to help
Industrial & Mining
2,739
8,150
carry on the main industrial and
Communications
1,162
3,263
technical work of the province. The
Agriculture & Forestry 1,205
8,242
decision to retain a certain number
Education & Research
481
1,261
of Japanese specialized persons in
Finance & Currency
636
1,977
Taiwan is the result of an agreement
Police
74
267
made with the United States Forces
Land Administration,
in China which is helping in the re-
Hydraulics,
Public
patriation of the Japanese from
Health, City Planning
China and the Chinese Goverment.
& Construction
599
1,655
The Japanese civilian technical per-
Others
132
374
sonnel being temporarily requisition-
ed falls into the following categories:
Total
7,028 20,189
The Office Of The Governor of Tai-
month. The Japanese personnel will
wan is understood to be making
be entirely repatriated se soon as
plans to start repatriating part of
Chinese and foreign technical per-
the above personnel and their de-
sonnel can replace them.
pendents to Japan beginning next
It's Taiwan, Not Formosa
In the Sui dynasty (7th century),
At the end of the sixteenth century,
Taiwan was called Ryukiu.
it was called by the Portuguese
In the Ming dynasty (15-17th cen-
sailors as "Ilha Formosa" meaning
tury), it was known as "Sho Ryukiu"
"Island Beautiful."
or Smaller Ryukip.
In the sixteenth century, the Jap-
Although it is better known as
anese called it Takasago or Taka-
Formosa, the Chinese call it Tatwan,
sagun.
meaning "Terraced Bay."
12

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
IS TAIWAN AN ASSET OR
LIABILITY TO CHINA?
How are conditions in Taiwan? Is
and land a job in their former homes
Taiwan proving itself a profitable or
than be sent to Taiwan. Hence, in
unprofitable war booty to China? Is
many cases, the occupation officials
the Chinese administration there a
were too few and too widely scattered.
success or a failure? These are some
Then under high government
of the pertinent questions that most
officials are the Japanese and the
readers would ask. As an observer
Taiwan staff speaking different
of events in Taiwan, the writer feels
tongues. In bringing into Taiwan
that these questions were best an-
the Chinese form of government and
swered in the light of the following
procedure, the Chinese are institut-
picture about Taiwan. The readers
ing something entirely new,—some-
are their own judges.
thing which requires both time and
It is true that one of China's post-
patience.
war tests is the administration of
Despite the shortage' of trained
Taiwan, lost to her since the Treaty
personnel, the occupation work went
of Shimonoseki in 1895. Just as
along fairly smoothly. The Japanese
China must not fail in the building
authorities in Taiwan officially sur-
of a democratic and prosperous na-
rendered Taiwan to Governor Chen
tion after the ravages of the war, so
Yi October 25, 1945. The Central
she must also succeed in making Tai-
Government, realizing the Taiwan
wan a worthy and progressive pro-
situation was quite different from
vince.
elsewhere in China, ordered Governor
Chen Yi to assume overall charge of
A casual observer would perhaps
the taking-over. As the Governor
be impatient to see things happen in
and Commander-in-Chief of Garrison
this until-recently entirely-Nipponized
Headquarters of Taiwan, Chen Yi
13,944 square miles of territory.
assumed undisputed control in the
They want to see Taiwan well-
occupation of Taiwan and in shaping
governed and highly-developed under
the Chinese. As an American liaison
a new administration.
By New Year's Day, 1946, the mili-
officer once remarked: "After two
years, China will either be so glad to
tary occupation of Taiwan by the
have got Formosa back or find it
Chinese 70th and 62nd Armies was
such a headache that she'd wish she
complete. The Administrative taking-
had never taken it back from the
over was well under way. The Japan-
Japs."
ese, except for isolated cases of hid-
ing war material and equipment,
During the last stage of the war,
were on the whole helpful and took
China did make some preparation to
the Chinese orders literally.
take over Taiwan on the defeat of
The enthusiasm shown by the
Japan. The sudden end of the war
6,000,000 populace in the initial
caught China, like other United Na-
period of taking-over ran high and
tions, quite unprepared for Victory.
wild. As most of their ancestors had
Preparations for taking over Taiwan
migrated from southern Fukien and
were entirely inadequate. Shortage
part of Kwangtung, they are an ener-
of trained and qualified personnel
getic and adventurous people. They
plus transportation difficulties result-
are impatient and all too narrow in
ed in the initial stage of occupation
their thinking and their outlook on
wanting in efficient orderliness. Many
life. A few thought that with the
administrative and technical people
Japanese gone, Taiwan should be
who were driven by the war from
Taiwanese. They very seldom think
the coastal cities to China's hinter-
in terms of things beyond their own
land were more anxious to get back
homes and farms.
13

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Chen Yi's administration at the
dustries and private enterprises are
outset was confronted by a food
taking in large numbers of workers
crisis. Shortage of fertilizers and of
from among them.
labor was given as chief reasons for
Chen Yi's administration has not
the grave food situation in this "food
imposed a monopoly on foodstuffs.
basket" of the Orient. Then, hoard-
At one time the government adopted
ing on the part of the local gentry
the Japanese system of government
accentuated the situation to such an
purchase of surplus rice from the
extent that rice, which sold at Yen 2
farmer for rationing. When this did
a catty at the time of the Japanese
not bring the expected results, Chen
surrender, was quoted at more than
Yi asked the counsel of the people.
Yen 20 a catty. Food riots were re-
A radio poll to canvass public opinion
ported and there was unrest socially
was made, and the majority was
and economically.
against rationing. And rationing
The Chinese government in Tai-
was immediately abolished. Because
wan was wise in reducing the notes
of the acute food situation, the gov-
issue of the Bank of Taiwan by 20
ernment at one time controlled the im-
percent by freezing all bank-notes
ports of foodstuffs and fertilizers with
issued or endorsed by the Bank of
a view to alleviating the food crisis.
Japan. Had it not been for the food
The merchants who brought in food-
situation, prices probably would not
stuffs and fertilizers were permitted
have risen so high, as there has been
to exchange for sugar for export.
no inflation as in other parts of
Normally, the export of sugar, in ac-
China. At present, low production
cordance with an order from the
and inadequate communications are
Central Government, for centralized
the main economic ills of Taiwan.
distribution on the Chinese Mainland,
Efforts, however, are being made
was banned to merchants.
to resume the operation of industrial
Because of language difficulties
plants and mines. Due to the bom-
and other differences in customs and
bings, many factories are in bad
background, it will take time for the
shape. Resumption is difficult be-
rest of China to really understand
cause the machinery and the parts
Taiwan and 6,000,000 Taiwan Chi-
required have to be imported from
nese. Conversely, the Taiwan people
Japan.
have yet to learn a lot and to change
În other fields, the picture is more
a lot to assimilate themselves with
encouraging. The production of coal
the rest of the Chinese race. The
was increased from 15,000 to 80,000
present administration is right in
tons a month in the first six months
giving every opportunity to the Tai-
of Chinese administration. Similarly,
wan Chinese to become full-filedged
the output of power has jumped from
Chinese citizens on a basis of equal-
40,000 kilowatts to 120,000 kilowatts.
ity and fairness. The people are
The increase in the production of
being taught democratic ways as
coal and power in Taiwan can only
elsewhere in China and the Provin-
indicate one thing. The wheels of
cial Political People's Council was
industry are running, and running
opened May 1.
at a greater momentum than six
China and the Chinese administra-
months ago.
tion in Taiwan have yet to overcome
There is the unemployment prob-
many obstacles to make Taiwan a
lem in Taiwan as elsewhere in China
real assert to the nation and
and the world, but it is not serious.
to help bring peace in the
The main reason behind unemploy-
Far East. Taiwan is just a
ment lies in the dislocation of labor
lost child being brought back
which is the result of demobilization.
to his parents. It needs to be
In the last few months, some 50,000
cherished and guided. It requires
Taiwan residents were discharged
large-scale financial and technical
from the Japanese Army or labor
assistance from China as well as for-
gangs and brought back to Taiwan.
eign countries. Only then will it
Both the government-operated in-
become an asset to New China!
14

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
Governor Sees Bright Future As
Taiwan Forges Ahead With Democracy
Hardly six months after Japan's
portunities for education and for
surrender
government employment. Organs re-
Chinese,
the people of Tai-
presenting public opinion and popular
wan were given a chance in their
will. are being established as a.
own government with the inau-
measure to encourage and to train
guration of the Provincial People's
the people in self-government. To
Political Council on May 1. "This
date, eighteen excessive taxes and
means that after 51 years of slavery
levies have been abolished.
under the Japanese, the Taiwan Chi-
A five-year reconstruction -program
nese were restored to the role of
is being drafted to rehabilitate Tai-
being their own masters," declared
wan's wrecked economy as a'result
Governor Chen Yi, in an interview
of the war and of bombings. The
with
New Tai-
program aims at achiev-
wan
Monthly, being the
ing in five years the fol-
first
of its kind ever
lowing objectives: (1) To
given
to an English
increase the earnings of
journal after his arrival
each citizen and to boost
at Taiwan.
up the total collective
"If we can count of such
earnings of all the people
continued progress on
in Taiwan. This will help
self-government, I see a
to elevate the standard of
very bright future in Tai-
living of the Chinese in
wan's democracy," the
Taiwan; (2) To multiply
governor added. Someday
the total industrial, mining
Taiwan may catch up with
and agricultural production
the rest of China, and
by improving the quality
even excel it, in being a
Governor Chen Yi
and by reducing the
very progressive province
of Taiwan.
cost (3) To increase the
of China.
total number of employed
As the inevitable trend of the
persons, to get more industrial work-
world is moving toward democracy
ers from among the farmers and to
raise their working efficiency.
and freedom of the press, so also is
the administration of Taiwan moving
The capital needed for the carry-
in the same direction. Taiwan today
ing out of this reconstruction pro-
probably enjoys more freedom of
gram will be obtained from the pro-
the press than anywhere in China.
ceeds reaped from public enterprises
The Chinese authorities in Taiwan
and not from taxation. By public
firmly believe in public opinion and
enterprises, the governor meant only
respect a free press.
those enterprises operated with gov-
The administrative policy of Tai-
ernment capital but not with the so-
wan as given by Governor Chen is
called bureaucratic capital which is
. directed at both eliminating the pains
often selfish, illegal and undesirable
of the people and at promoting their
to society as a whole.
welfare. By alleviating their suffer-
In this reconstruction plan, the
ings, exorbitant taxes and harsh
governor added, "Taiwan, like other
laws formerly proclaimed by the
provinces in China, heartily welcomes
Japanese regime are being abolished,
foreign investment as long as it is in
while the people's lawful rights are
line with the teachings of the late
being protected. In increasing the
Dr. Sun Yat-sen and is consistent
welfare of the people, the Taiwan
with China's national policy and with
Chinese are given much wider op-
Taiwan's local economy."
15

=== Page 55 === (confidence 1.00)
A FERTILE LAND WITH RICH
RESOURCES
Taiwan is a land of fertile farms
to the fact long ago, as is shown by
and rich resources. The climate and
the existence of certain very old
soil of sub-tropical Taiwan is na-
irrigation canals in Taiwan, some of
turally fitted to the cultivation of
which are almost two centuries old.
rice and sugar cane, so that if ample
facilities of irrigation are given, even
The earlier canals, however, were
barren lands may be turned into rich
generally small in scale and far from
fields capable of yielding two crops
satisfactory in efficiency. The Jap-
of rice a year, resulting in an enor-
anese paid considerable attention to
mous increase of agricultural pro-
building modern irrigation systems in
duction. The islanders were awake
Taiwan.
Statistics of Irrigation Works at the End of March, 1943
(In ko: 1 ko—2.4 acres)
Irrigation and
No. of Canals
Drainage Area
Percentage
Irrigation guilds
48
400,885
71.3
Public canals
1
140,107
24.9
Private canals
244
21,007
3.8
Total
293
561,999
100.0
Farming Population
Agricultural Products
The farming population of Taiwan
The total value of agricultural pro-
in 1943 was 3,271,131 and the total
ducts for 1943 reached Y.526,160,000,
of which principal crops accounted
number of farming households was
for Y.302,890,000 or (57 per cent) of
470,374, the area tilled per farming
the total value, industrial crops for
family being 1.87 ko (1 ko—2.4
Y.161,790,000 (30 per cent), and
acres).
vegetable and fruits for Y.61,470,000
(13 per cent). Classified by crops,
The area of lands under tillage in
rice came firstwith Y.256,700,000 or
49 per cent of the total value, follow-
Taiwan at the end of 1942 was
ed by sugar cane with Y.123,100,000
880,975 ko, of which 540,812 ko or
(23 per cent) sweet potatoes with
69 per cent of the total area was
Y.41,200,000 (8 per cent), vegetables
with Y.36,500,000 (7 per cent), ana
paddy and 340,167 ko or 31 per cent
bananas with Y.13,500,000 (3 per
was upland.
cent).
16

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
Statistics of Staple Farm Products (1943)
Output
Value
Acreage
(Koku—5.1 Bushels,
Principal Crops
(Yen)
(Ko)
Kin—0.6 Kg)
302,893,039
Sweet Potatoes
Rice
Beans
256,749,577
41,248,807
165,971
628,970
2,343,963,940 (kin)
7,880,624 (koku)
Wheat, barley &
2,299,754
14,227
50,839 (koku)
Others
other cereals
1,947,462
647,439
8,756
24,210 (koku)
Industrial Crops
161,790,340
Sugar cane ..
123,108,646
155,693
14,603,635,440 (kin)
Jute & Ramic
Tobacco
Sesame
Coarse tea
Pea nuts
Aromatics
11,473,938
12,922,430
4,869,035
1,163.691
2,386 687
317,862
40,799
19,502
17,728
5,206
2,221
367
13,199,183
22,208,301
14,731,705
1,031,869
195,687
6,504
(koku)
(kin)
(kin)
(kin)
(kin)
(koku)
Others
5,548,052
Vegetables & Fruits
61.473.653
Vegetables
36,510,114
Bananas
13,563.499
16.672
235,153,141
(kin)
Pineapples
2.893.958
7.558
93,647.113
(pcs)
Oranges
5.433.659
5.443
47.766,993
(kin)
Longans
Damson :
625.393
526.496
1.827
417
2.901.778
5868.060
(kin)
(kin)
Mangces
299.672
505
2,750,441 (kin)
Other:
1.390.287
Total
526.157,032
Cattle-raising and Poultry
outnut of
milk
was valued
at
Swine-raising occupies a predo-
Y 440.000.
minant position in Taiwan stock-
The total value of domestic fowls
farming. The total number of-live-
stood at the end of 1943 at Y.22.400.-
stock in Taiwan reaghed 1.670,000
c00. of which chickens accounted for
head at the end of 1943, of which
Y.14.500 000 (64 ner cent) and ducks
1.270,000 heads or 76 per cent of the
for Y.4,900,000 (20 per cent).
total were swines and 320.000 or 19
Forestry
per cent cattle. The number of live-
The forest area of Taiwan as at
stock raised in that year was
the end of 1942 stood at 2.270.000 ko
1,040,000, of which swines accounted
(i ko—2.4 acres). occupying approxi-
for 970.000 (93 per cent) and cattle
mately 61 per cent of the entire area
for 32,000 (3 per cent), while the
of the island.
Area of Forests by Ownership
(Unit: 1 ko)
Forests
Shrubs
Total
State
1,583,257
462,026
2,045,283
Public
15,110
2,303
17,413
Private
184,522
31,738
216,260
Total
1,782,889
496,067
2,278,956
The total value of forest products
cent) firewood for
Y.10,360,000 (16
in 1942 was Y.69,650.000 of which
per cent) forest by-products for
timber accounted for Y.29,370,000 or
Y.5,560,000 (8 per cent), and bamboo
41 per cent of the total value,
for Y.4,490,000(6 per cent).
charcoal for Y.19,850,000 (28 per
17

=== Page 57 === (confidence 1.00)
Allied Leaders At Cairo Conference
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, President of China, and President
Franklin D. Roosevelt of the U.S. are shown with diplomatic advisers dur-
ing their historic conference at Cairo with Prime Minister Winston
Churchill of Great Britain. Immediately behind them are Anthony Eden
(with arms folded), British Foreign Secretary, and John G. Winant (wear-
inng dark suit), U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain. At the conclusion of
the conference, the three Allied leaders issued a declaration stating that
their nations will strip Japan of all territory she has acquired by force.
18

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
They Decided On The Future Of
Taiwan
Seen at a conference at which officials, military leaders and the heads
of the governments of the United States, China and England conferred are,
left to right: Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, President Roosevelt, Prime
Minister Winston Churchill and Madame ChiangKai-shek.
19

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
For the Fifst Time in the History of Taiwan, the White-Sun & Blue-
Sky National Flag of China was Hoisted. The Flag-Raising Ceremony
Took Place at 3 p.m., Oct. 6, 1945, at the Former Official Residence of the
Japanese Governor-General. Posing Under the Flag was a Group qf
Chinese Officials in the Advance Party.
20一

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
復光湾臺
保禮典隆委省港台中
Japan's Unconditional Surrender
Japan had Taiwan for 51 Years.
But Following Her Unconditional
Surrender, Japan Was to Return
Taiwan to China. The Above
Picture Shows the People's Warm
Celebration for the occasion. Left.
(Chinese Officials Pose in Front of
the Surrender Hall.
Right Gen. Toshiyoshi Ando,
Former Japanese Governor-General
of Taiwan, Used A Chinese Brush
in Signing the Paper Marking the
Surrender of Taiwan.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.91)
祝
復光湾臺
省台
达新布展
國故遺
建設新台
玉十池
Governor Chen Yi (seating at middle) in His Full General Uniform
Has a Good Reason to Sit down There for Photographers with his Staff.
The Time was Right After the Japanese Official Surrender of Taiwan
on Oct. 25, 1945. Note the Entrance of the Surrender Hall Was Decorated
in Traditional Chinese Pavilion Style for the Memorable Occasion.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
The Office Of The Governor
When the Chinese Authorities Arrived
at Taiwan on Oct. 25, 1945, They Found
What Once Was the Nerve-Center of the
Japanese Conquest of Taiwan Was in
Sheer Ruins (Left) as a Result of a
Direct Hit by American Bombers. There-
fore, the Former Municipal Government
Building of Taipei (below) was Selected
as the Site to House the Office Of The
Governor.
23

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
There are
seven tribes of
aborigines in Tai-
wan, numbering
altogether about
160,000. Top: A
village of the
T a i y a 1 tribe,
northerninha-
bitants of the
Island. Center:
Dancing lasses of
a tribe. Bottom: A tribe's woman paddling a canoe on the
lake Jisugetsutan in central Taiwan.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
One of the Engineering Feats Left by the Japanese in Taiwan Is the
Taipei Bridge Spanning the Tansui River on the Outskirts of Taipei.
This Bridge Was Built for Highway and Pedestrian Traffic to the Southern
Parts of the Island From Taipei. There Is Another Bridge Parallel to
This One for Trains.
Taiwan Is the Granary of the Far
East. Formerly Half of Its Rice Pro-
duction Was Exported to Japan. Tai-
wan Farmers Collect Two or Three
Rice Cops Each Year. Although Hand
Labor Is Still Predominant, Taiwan
Always Has Big Food Surplus for
Export.
All-Year-Round Taiwan Is America's California in Fruits. T
There You May
Find All Kinds of Fruits. A Speciality Is Its All-Weather Watermelons Which are
Abundant In Every Season.
一25一

=== Page 65 === (confidence 1.00)
Mother Nature Is Kind to Taiwan. Aside From Its Beautiful Coastal
and Harbor Scenery, It Is Also Rich In Flowers and Trees. In Fact, the
Entire Island Is A Garden. Taiwan Has Some of the Highest Peaks in the
Orient.
Whole view of the Garampi Light-house at The Southermost tip of Taiwan.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
TAIWAN SUGAR A SWEET-&-SOUR
BUSINESS
The sugar industry has always
established and production guilds
been a sweet and promising source
organized. Besides these, subsidies
of income in Taiwan. Its zenith was
were granted to encourage sugar
reached just before World War II
planters and manufacturers By 1938,
when the record production of 1,200,-
most mills in Taiwan had modern-
000 tons a year was made. This was
equipment with a pressing capacity
a major source of wealth and pros-
ranging from 300 to 3,000 tons a
perity to the Japanese exploiters.
day and were able to produce even
But today, this sweet industry tastes
a greater quantity. By 1942, forty-
like a sour grape as the war and the
two factories were incorporated into
bombings have devastated the planta-
four sugar trusts having the newest
tions and wrecked the plants. This
equipment in Taiwan with a total
once prosperous industry has to be
area of plantation of 174,202 ko (a
literally started anew from the
ko—2.4 acres), of which Takao was
ground.
the productive center. The cane crop
in the same year amounted to 16,628,-
Ever since the Dutch occupation of
466,000 kin (a kin—0.6 kilogram).
Taiwan in 1624, sugar was ranked
The sugar industry was by far the
one of the staple products. Being
biggest industry in Taiwan.
surpassed in yield only by Cuba, the
Taiwan's sugar industry suffered
United States, India and Java, Tai-
heavily as a result of bombings during
wan possesses sugar cane amounting
the war. When the Chinese took
to one-fifth of the total agricultural
over the sweet island, they found all
products. When Taiwan was ceded
the modern refineries wrecked. Re-
to Japan, the sugar industry was
pair work from the time of Japan's
very primitive. Out of about a thou-
formal surrender to May of this year
sand mills, not a single one used
has only recovered twenty of the
modern mechnical methods of manu-
forty-two big plants.
facturing. Only animal power was
used. Due to insufficient pressing
The present is just the lowest ebb
power, the actual yield from sugar
of the sweet business in the history
cane was quite limited; thus a large
of Taiwan. Its production has been
percentage of sugar-substance was
reduced from its peak year of
wasted in the process.
1,200,000 tons to only 100,000 tons
A sugar industry development plan
for the present year. It is hoped
was carried out under the Japanese.
that, through government efforts in
The improvement of species, the me-
rehabilitating the sugar cane farms
thcd of manufacturing raised both
and in rebuilding the ruined refine-
the quantity and quality of sugar.
ries, the happy days may be back
The application of artificial irriga-
again when much of the sugar may
tion increased land cultivation and
be exported in exchange for industrial
expanded the area of plantations.
equipment and consumers' articles
Sugar experimental
1 stations were
for the Taiwanese.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
MARINE RESOURCES IN TAIWAN
By Paul G. Kawai, M. A.
Counsellor, Department of
Agriculture & Forestry,
Offjice Of The Governor Of Taiwan
While all the natural resources in
Now, fishing proper may be divided
Taiwan are more or less limited, the
into two main divisions i.e. the coast
marine resources are immeasurable
fishing and the deep-sea fishing.
in quantity. In former times, how-
First of all, the coast fishing made
ever, the Taiwan people were very
an average annual production of 4.8
conservative and timid in respect to
million yen during 1932-1941. The
the ocean, deeming fishing to be the
main products in 1938 were sardine,
mean job of humble folks. So in
soda-bonito,grey-mullet,cybium
early days, it was only fish-culture
niphinium,horse-mackerel,
mana-
that was pursued by the people, and
bonito, shark, flying-fish
and
even at present this business is car-
some more than forty other kinds.
ried on exclusively by Taiwanese.
Of these, there were 8,608 tons of
sardine, valued at 911 thousand yen,
and were consumed mainly as food-
The foremost of the fish-culture
stuff and partly as elements of
was that of sabahi, which seemed to
medicine.
have been prevalent as early as the
middle of the seventeenth century,
Deep-Sea Fishing
and it is still predominant, occupying
some 74% of the total production of
While coast-fishing is carried on
salt-water fish-culture. Its average
in small boats, mostly not equipped
annual production during 1929-1938
with motors or with simple bamboo
was 10,668 tons, valued at 3.6 million
craft (there have been 5 to 6 thou-
yen. Next to this was oyster, which
sand of those bamboo crafts ucil
amounted to 3,381 tons, valued at
1940, and in 1942 they were register-
some 436 thousand yen, and nearly
ed 7,744 in total), the deep-sea fish-
as much as one-fourth of the total
jng is carried out by steamships,
production of sea-water culture. The
which vary in tonnage, from less
other fish cultured in sea-water were
than 20 tons to several hundred tons.
grey-mullet, shrimp, crab, etc. On
The production by these ships from
the other hand, the fish cultured in
1937 to 1939, was from 10 million to
fresh water are tsauhi, nenhi, grey-
19 million yen, and in 1940, it jump-
mullet, sabahi, carp, gibel, eel, raini
ed to over 28 million yen. Of this
kenhi, snapping-turtle and others.
deep-sea fishing, there are three
Among these, the tsauhi bred during
different types, i.e. off-shore, Otter-
the aforesaid ten years was 1,021
trawl, and drag-seine fisheries.
tons, each year valued at 237 thou-
sand yen, and next to this was renhi
The off-shore fishing was carried
which was cultured 705 tons, valued
out in 1937 by 1,707 steamships in
at 216 thousand yen. The average
21,603 aggregate tons and with
area of fish-farms has been 62 thou-
15,024 fishermen. The figures are
sand acres with the products of 17
calculated according to the trips
thousand tons of some 3.7 million yen
made by ships in one year. The fish
worth. This amount, however, was
caught by them in 1941 were for
naturally surpassed by that of fish-
the most part 7,000 to:: of tuna,
ing in the same average year, which
4.3 million yen worth, 4,000 tons of
amounted to some 15.7 million yen,
sword-fish, 3.5 million yen, a little
i.e. more than four times as much
over 6,000 tons of shark, 1.8 miltion
as that of fish-culture.
yen, nearly 700 tons of sea-beain.
28

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
854 thousand yen, a little over 800
there were 76 trawl ships with an
tons of mana-bonito, some 425 thou-
&ggregate number of 13,801 tons. The
sand yen, and other fish of more than
fishing grounds are distributed
two dozen different kinds.
over the area from 30°N on the China
Sea down to Tonking Bay, covering
Goes Far and Wide
the continental-shelf estimated at 170
The method of catching fish in off-
square miles, the depth of which
shore fishing is different according
varying from 20 to less than 100
to the nets used, and most of the
rathoms. The fish caught by Otter-
ships do not use nets, but catch the
trawl ships in 1941 were 373 tons
fish with baited hooks attached to
of guchi (pseudoseiaena manchuria),
tines. In 1938, 70% of the total
with 2.4 million yen worth, and 1,017
fishing vessels belonging to this
tons of red progy, with 437 thousand
group were with baited hooks, and
yen worth, and others.
77% of the total off-shore production,
i.e. approximatay 3.9 million yen
Parallel to the Otter-trawl and yet
worth, was made by them. The
different in method is what we call
fishing grounds of those vessels are
drag-seine fishing. This is a typical
distributed almost all over the South
Japanese invention, being operated
Seas, extending from the South China
by a pair of vessels. The net used
Sea, Northwestern and Eastern Seas
consists of towing warps, wing parts,
of the Philippine Islands, down to
both being much longer than a trawl-
the Celebes and the Sulu Seas, cover-
net, and a body part which is com-
ing some 490 thousand square miles.
paratively shorter. When -it is
The ratio of catches per 100 hooks,
operated, one ship first shoots out a
however, differs according to the
buoy attached to the towing warp,
grounds as follows:
then the towing warp, wing part,
body net, another wing part, and
Neighboring Sea of Taiwan
4%
finally the other towing warp, and
South China Sea
5%
in so doing a certain area of the
North-western Sea of the
water is encircled by the net. So,
Philippine Islands
8%
when that ship comes back to the
Celebes Sea
10%
buoy, the other ship takes up the
Sulu Sea
7%
buoy and staarts pulling up the net,
Eastern Sea of the
until after some two hours from the
Philippine Islands
11%
first shoot of the buoy, both ships lie
side by side. Then one towing warp is
Besides, there are vast areas left
passed from one to the other ship,
untouched, for instance, Bunda Sea,
where both towing warps are pulled
Flores Sea and Indian Ocean, total-
in, one at the bow and the other at
ling 550 million square miles. The
the stern, to which follow the wing.
marine resources in those areas, in-
parts of the net, and finally the body
cluding those already being exploited,
part of it, full of fish, is hoisted up
are almost immeasurable and waiting
by means of a winch.
for development.
In 1938, there were 809 drag-seine
Now, next important is the Otter-
ships in an aggregate number of
trawl fishing. This was first intro-
60,269 aggregate tons. The main
duced to Taiwan in 1919 without
catches were 3,776 tons of red-porgy,
further development, and it was since
some 2 million yen worth, 3,743 tons
1928 that it has started its work on
of guchi, 1.2 million yen, 2,437 tons
a big scale, having adopted the so-
of eso (trachinocephalus Muops),
called V.D.
nearly 700 thousand yen, 915 tons
of yellow-bream, 622 thousand yen,
Improved Trawl System
645 tons of sea-bream, 408 thousand
This is a system of net (improved to
yen, and others. In 1942, the total
Vigneron Dahl) and Diesel-engine to-
catches of drag-seine fishing amount-
gether with refrigerator. In 1938,
ed to over 9 million yen, while those
29

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
of off-shore and trawl fishings in the
Jenkins. "This method of fishing
same year were some 15 and 2.6
involves the use of large quantity
million yen respectively, and those
of consumable stores, such as coal,
three together, including 21 thousand
oil and ice. Further, good harbors
yen of whale fishing, amounted to
accessible at all states of the tide,
26.6 million yen. This amount of
and provided with ample quay space,
deep-sea fishing is approximately
railway sidings, dry docks or patent
three times as much as that of coast
slips for repairs are indispensable"
fishing, which was estimated at 9
("The Sea Fisheries," p.14). The
million yen in the same year. This
fishing company that is active now
will show how important is the deep-
in Taiwan has also its own ice-plants
sea fishing and why a huge amount
all over the island and foodstuff
of capital as well as equipments are
manufacturing factories as well as
needed for that. To quote J. T.
ship-yards.
WOO FENG AND HIS ABORIGINES
The spirit of Jesus Christ was
and told them that they could
exemplified in the personality of Woo
do one more killing, but after that
Feng, a Chinese magistrate over the
there was to be absolutely no more.
Malayan headhunters in the central
On a certain day on a certain path
part of Taiwan some hundred years
they were told to find a man in a
ago. Today grandmas in this
certain attire. He was to be their
tropically lush island are still telling
last victim. They were warned, how-
the story of how a man sacrificed
ever, that after this killing, there
himself in the cause of humanity.
was to be misery and war in their
Wood Feng, whose biography in the
land. Then on that day in that parti-
provincial library is treasured both
cular path they found the man and
by the Chinese as well as the Japan-
killed him. No sooner did the head-
ese, was sent by the Chinese Emperor
hunters hail triumphantly over the
in the Tsin dynasty to pacify and to
head that they had chopped off than
rule over the aboriginal tribes in the
they found out that it was none other
hilly parts of Taiwan, then an outly-
than the head of their beloved
ing province of China. Woo Feng
magistrate. As predicted there was
appeared to be a very successful ad-
misery and war with neighboring
ministrator. His name and his rule
tribes which they lost. In keeping
were held with awe and respect by
their faith in their great ruler,
the aborigines. But one thing that
they stopped all killings and gave
the aborigines could not get over was
up their thirst for head-hunting.
their thirst for killing which was the
Many years later, the aborigines
very thing that Woo Feng was to
erected a temple in Kagi in central
stop them from doing. "Thou shall
Taiwan in memory of Woo Feng,
not kill" was his exhortion to these
their great leader.
headhunters. Woo Feng had recon-
ciled them by promising them a few
killings for their sacrifices and after
those there was to be no more killing
in his region. The aborigines obeyed,
Exchange Quotations
but before long they found that there
In Taiwan
were no more heads to sever for
sacrifices as each killing was good
(Aug. 10, 1946)
for one sacrifice only. They became
restless and appealed to Woo Feng.
US$1—Yen 100
Woo Feng asked them to be patient
Yen 1—CNC$30
30

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Sees A Dawn for Gospel Work
THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH AND
THE NEW TAIWAN
By JAMES DICKSON
Representative of Protestant Mission of Canada in Taiwan
Eighty years ago, the first mission-
rights were all out of accord with
aries arrived from England and
the narrow, nationalistic militarism
began work in the southern part of
of the nation. Consequently, Chris-
Taiwan. Ten years later, the first
tians were regarded with suspicion,
missionary arrived from Canada, and
and all churches and other institu-
established a mission in North Tai-
tions were carefully watched. Some
wan. From that time on, a con-
leaders were seized and thrown into
tinuous effort has been carried on
jail without trial and others were
in the island, with missionaries from
made miserable by the continued
England, Canada, and a few from
questionings and investigations of the
the United States, laboring with the
police.
native church leaders, in the found-
ing of schools, hospitals, and chur-
Religious Liberty Denied
ches. The institutions of the Pro-
A common method of seeking to
testant Church in Taiwan at the
involve such people in difficulties was
present time, are as follows:—
to send a detective to call on the
Christians, who would declare him-
5 Middle Schools
self to be a Christian. He would be
wearing plain clothes, and would
3 Hospitals
appear to be most friendly. Then
later he would start to complain about
1 Leprosy Colony
the Japanese, and criticize their
methods, etc. If the Taiwan Chris-
2 Theological Colleges
tians agreed with him, they would
be dealt with accordingly. This
200 Churches
treacherous system which spread fear
and suspicion among the people, bred
During the tire of the Japanese
insincerity and duplicity. People
occupation of Taiwan, the church has
were forced to put up God-shelves in
often had a difficult time. This has
their homes, and school children were
been especially true for the past ten
forced to attend the Shinto Shrines.
years. Christianity was regarded by
These practices were declared to be
many of the Japanese as an organiza-
patriotic duties, but no one could tell
tion which was dangerous to the state
where patriotism stopped and religion
and out of accord with the spirit of
began. As a matter of fact, the two
the "New Order" which they were
were scrambled together in one of
seeking to establish. It cannot be
the most amazing systems the world
denied that Christianity, if true to
has even seen. Religion and patrio-
its ideals, was not in accord with the
tism were blended into one system.
spirit of the Japanese nations during
The great king of ancient Babylon
these years of super-nationalism. Its
set up an image of himself, and de-
spirit of world-wide brotherhood, its
manded that all his people must bow
spirit of democracy, its spirit of res-
down and worship it, on the penalty
pect for individual opinion and human
of death. Later the Emperor of Im-
31

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
perial Rome demanded the people to
before. After years of war, poverty
worship him. However, history holds
and sickness are more widespread
no parallel to the carefully planned
than heretofore. Our hospitals will
and thoroughly executed system of
fill a greater need than they have in
the worship of human beings such as
the past. It is our purpose to re-
the Japanese Government demanded
organize them and raise their stand-
for the Imperial family of Japan.
ard so they will be second to none,
in the service which they will render.
Suspicion of Faith
In this work of relief for those who
suffer, and helping those in need, we
Naturally, it was difficult for the
have a concrete expression of the
Christian Church to thrive under such
goodwill and brotherhood of the
circumstances. Religious liberty was
Christian people of the west, shown.
guaranteed by the constitution of the
to the people of Taiwan. It is also
Empire, but was completely denied in
our plan to improve our Christian
practice. A man who was regarded with
middle schools so that they can fulfill
suspicion because of his faith, and it
their important mission in this new
was demanded that he put up a God-
day, in training leaders of strong
shelf in his home; pay lip service to
moral character.
the human gods of the state religion;
and do other things which were in-
consistent with Christian faith and
Christians Persecuted
practice. The Shinto system in Tai-
wan was planned and supervised by
The work of the church has re-
the government fron above, rather
cently been extended to the people of
than being a voluntary system born
the Tyal Tribe. Two of these tribes-
from the people. Tens of millions of
men becanie Christians some years
yen were spent for the erection of
ago, and studied in our schools in
beautiful shrines all over the island,
Tansui, with the intent of later
and hundreds of thousands of people
preaching to their people in the
marched dutifully to these shrines on
mountains. The Japanese police per-
days specified by the Government.
secuted all of those who became
However, as soon as the military and
Christians, and during the war they
police authorities no longer had
had a very difficult time. However,
power, no one went again to these
the numbers of Christians increased,
shrines. Today they are completely
meeting secretly for worship and
deserted, and tall weeds are growing
carrying on their work without the
up over the grounds. The God-
knowledge of the police. At the end
shelves have been taken down and
of the war, when this movement was
burned, and the people are free for
able to become public, there were two
the first time in years to worship as
thousand believers. Since that time
they desire, without fear. There is
the number has inereased to around
no longer a stigma attached to the
four thousand, and the numbers are
Christian religion, as a system dan-
increasing every week. These people
gerous to the welfare of the state.
are greatly in need of medical assis-
China is numbered among the en-
tance, as well as educational assis-
lightened nations of the world where
tance and our church is making plans
religious liberty is denied none of the
to give help along these lines.
people. We are given the right to
examine the facts and decide for our-
selves what is right and wrong, false
In the New Taiwan, we have found
and true. "You shall know the truth,
not only a respect for religious
and the truth shall make you free."
liberty, but also a spirit of friendly
cooperation on the part of the pre-
Greater Need Ahead
sent government, as far as the work
of the Church is concerned. It can
Today there is greater need for
be truly said that a new day has
the church's institutions than ever
dawned for the church in Taiwan.
32

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Roster of Officer Personnel,
Taiwan Liaison Group, CCC,
US Forces, China Theater
(Oct. 1945—May 1946)
Col. Cecil J. Gridley
CO
Col. Loren D. Pegg
C/S
Col. Ulmont W. Holly
CO, 70 A
Maj. George M. McLaughlin
G-1 & AG
Capt. Richard C. Aronson
Ass't G-1
Lt. Col. Reginald L. Hatt
G-2
Maj. Charles H. Race
Ass't G-2
Lt. Col. Leslie C. Cave
G-3
Lt Col. Charles W. Kenyon
G-4
Lt. Col. William K. Evans
G-5
Lt. Col. Hozmer Wright
Sig O
Maj. Hal Bridges
Surg
Capt. Daniel F. Hanley
Ass't Surg
Capt. Wesley Gapinski
F. O.
1st Lt. Frank N. Walker
Hq C.omdt.
2nd Lt. Paul F. Wilson
Ass't F. O.
1st Lt. George R. Van Brunt
P & C O
Capt. John D Haynes
CO, 26th Sig. Diet.
1st Lt. Charles L. Young
Exec. O, 26th Sig. Det.
1st Lt. Gerrald R. Richards
Japanese Lang O
UNRRA Personnel of the Taiwan Regional Office
W. D. Fitzpatrick
UNRRA Regional Director, Taiwan
Pierre G. Sylvain
Agricultural Rehabilitation Officer
M. Bebb
Distribution Officer
H. T. Johnson
Chief Accountant
Ed. Paine
Reports Officer
A. E. Hunt
Executive Officer
Miss H. F. Reimer
Public Health Nurse
Miss C. Rowland
Finance and Personnel Officer
Miss P. Rainer
Administrative Assistant
Miss A. Owens
Secretary
Miss Brown
Doctor
Distances From Keelung, Chief Port of Taiwan
(in nautical miles)
Shanghai
418
Nagasaki
633
Hongkong
479
Dairen
850
Foochow
151
Saigon
1,300
Amoy
226
Bangkok
1,900
Swatow
318
Singapore
1,834
Haiphong (via Hongkong)
961
Batavia
2,130
33

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
Department of Civil Affairs
Director-Chow Yi-ngeh
Department of Education
Of an
Director-Fan Show-kang
Department of Finance
Director-Yen Chia-kan
Department of Agriculture & Forestry
Director-Chao Lien-fang
Department of Industry & Mining
Director-Pao Ko-yung
Department of Communications
r  n
Director-Jen Hsien-chun
Department of Police
Director-Hu Fu-hsing
Department of Accounting
Chief Accountant-Wang Shao-chia
Secretariat
Director-Chang Yen-cheh
Committee of Information
Chairman-Hsia Tao-sheng
Laws & Regulations Committee
Chairman-Fang Hsueh-li
Planning & Examination Committee
Secneral
Chairman-Hsu Tao-ling
e igen
Office of Confidential Documents
Govenor
hen Yi
Chief-Lou Wen-chao
Personnel Office
Chief-Chang Kuo-chien
Counsellors' Office
Taiwan Monopoly Bureau
Director-JenWei-chun
Taiwan Trading Bureau
Director-Yui Pei-hsi
Bureau of Food
Director-Wu Chang-tao
Meteorological Bureau
Director-Shih Yen-han
Forestry Research Institute
Director-Lin Wei-feng
Agricultural Research Institute
Director-Lin Li
Industrial Research Institute
Director-Chen Hwa-chow
Geological Research Institute
Director-Pi Ching-chang
Oceanic Research Institute
Director-Ma Ting-ying
Committee on the Disposition of
Japanese Properties
Chairman-Yen Chia-kan
Japanese Civilians' Adm. Committee
Chairman-Chow Yi-ngeh
Provincial Training Corps
Dean-Han Pu-sen
34

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Chronology of Events in Taiwan
(Oct. 5, 1945—July 31, 1946)
Forces in China also arrived
1945
with the convoy.
Oct. 5 The Advance Group of the
Oct. 24 Governor Chen Yi of Taiwan
office Of The Governor and of
and concurrently Commander-
the Taiwan Garrison General
in-Chief of the"Taiwan Gar-
Headquarters arrived at
rison General Headquarters
Taiwan in five U.S. Army
arrived at Taiwan by plane
planeloadsatthe
Tai-
at 2:50 p.m. amidst warm
pei airfield at 5 p.m.
The
welcome by cheering crowds
Group was headed by
Lt.-
and officials. After alight-
Gen. Keh King-en.
ing from the plane, Governor
Chen made a broadcast to the
6 Lt.-Gen. Keh handed over the
people of Taiwan pledging a
No. 1 Memorandum from
clean and responsible
ad-
Governor Chen Yi to General
ministration aiming at
pro-
Toshiyoshi Ando charging
moting their general
wel-
the Japanese to be responsible
fare. Arriving with
the
for the maintenance
of
Governor
rwas also
Col.
peace and order in Taiwan
Cecil J. Gridley, Commanding
until formal surrender.
Officer of the Taiwan Liaison
Group of the United States
The Chinese National Flag
Forces in China.
of Blue-Sky & White Sun
Edwin A. Locke, Jr., Per-
was hoisted for the first time
in Taiwan at the former
sonal Representative of Pre-
official residence of the Japan-
sident Truman, and his party
ese Governor-General.
arrived at Taipei airfield for
a brief inspection tour.
10 Celebratiòn of the Double
25 At 10 a.m. in the City Hall
Tenth anniversary took place
of Taipei, Governor Chen Yi,
in Taiwan in the first time
on behalf of the Chinese
of its history. The occasion
Government,
accepted the
was warmly celebrated by
unconditional
surrender of
both the official circles and
Taiwan by the Japanese
public.
Government as represent-
ed by Gen. Toshiyoshi Ando,
15Preparations
neared con-
the former Japanese Gov-
pletion for
thelanding
ernor-General of Taiwan and
of the 70th Army and the
the Commanding General of
arrival of a large number of
the Japanese Tenth Front
government employees.
Army Headquarters, in a
solemn and historic ceremony
18 The 70th Army under the
marking the return of Tai-
command of Lt.-Gen. Chen
wan to China's sovereignty.
Kung-dah, landed at Keelung
Among those present at the
in a ·U.S. Navy Convoy. Lt.
surrender ceremony were Mr.
Gen. Koh Yuan-fen, Chief-of-
Locke and hisparty.
Staff of the Taiwan Garrison
An official buffet was held at
General Headquarters, was
noon that day in the City
also among the arrivals.
Hall as a part of official cele-
A large number of the officers
bration. Jubilation among the
and men of the Taiwan
people as staged by color-
Liaison Group of the U.S.
ful shows, parades and
35
2

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
floodlights lasted for many
as the Chinese officers and
days.
men.
At the surrender Ceremony.
All political prisoners form-
Governor Chen Yi, in an
erly taken by the Japanese
were to be set free soon.
orderrelieved
General
Toshiyoshi Ando of his posi-
6 Under the Civil Affairs De-
tions as the Governor-General
partment of the Office Of The
of Taiwan and Commanding
Governor, eight committees for
General of the Tenth Front
the hsien (prefectures) of
Army Headquarters. Instead,
Taipei, Taichung,
Tainan,
Gen.
Ando
was
the
Hsincho, Takao,
Karenko,
Director of the Japanese
Taitung and the Pescadores.
Army Liaison Office for the
were established for the
Taiwan Area under the direc-
taking-over of the hsien gov-
tion of Governor Chen Yi.
ernments in Taiwan.
Oct. 28 Aboriginal delegates from
28 The Secretariat and the
central Taiwan called on
Bureau of Foreign Affairs of
Governor Chen and pledged
the former Japanese Gov-
loyalty and allegiance of the
ernor-General's Office were
tribal peoples to the adminis-
taken over, thus completing
tration.
the taking-over of all Japan-
ese administrative offices and
Nov. 1 The administrative and mili-
functions in Taiwan.
tary taking-over of Taiwan
from the Japanese was offi-
Dec. 3 Representative Maverick, Per-
cially started. Lt.-Gen. Keh
sonal Representative of Pre-
King-en,
Secretary-General
sident Truman, arrived at
of the Office Of The Governor,
Taiwan to study small in-
dustries and handicrafts. He
was concurrently chairman
of the administrative taking-
leftfor Shanghai
on
December 5.
over committee of Taiwan.
U.S. mine-sweeping teams
Lt.-Gen. KohYuan-fen,
started large-scale operations
Chief-of-Staff of the Taiwan
in and outside of Keelung
Garrison General Headquart-
and Takao. The work was
ers, was the chairman
completed in January.
of the military taking-over
committee of Taiwan.
Dec. 27 Governor Chen ordered the
abolition of twelve exorbitant
Governor Chen gave his
taxes and levies in Taiwan
first press conference in Tai-
which were formerly imposed
wan
upon by the Japanese
Nov. 2 The Taiwan Garrison Gen-
28 James Elliot arrived at Tai-
eral Headquarters ordered
pei to study the possibilities
that all Koreans formerly in
for the opening 'of a Taiwan
the Japanese Army be given
branch of the United States
Information Service.
training in democratic ideas
while waiting for transporta-
30 Rear-Admiral Murray arriv-
tion to go back to their home-
ed at Taiwan to inspect for-
land. The Koreans werc
tresses and left on the. next
given the same treatment
day.
36

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
1946
& Taiwan of the Control
Jan. 1 Government officials and civic
Yuan arrived at Taipei.
leaders celebrated the 35th an-
niversary of the founding of
24 Governor Chen Yi left Tai-
the Republic of China at the
pei by plane for Shanghai,
City Hall of Taipei.
en route to attend the Sixth
C.E.C. Plenary Session in
The taking-over and re-
Chungking.
christianing of the S.S. Tai-
Mar. 12 Governor Chen made a re-
pei took place at 2 p.m. A
concert by the Taiwan Sym-
port on the occupation and
phony Orchestra in the even-
taking-over of Taiwan to the
ing rounded up the day's
Sixth C.E.C. Plenary Session.
celebration.
26 Governor Chen returned to
6 The Office Of The Governor
Taipei.
asked the Taiwan Broadcast-
Apr. f1 Ralph J. Blake arrived at
ing Station to canvass public
.Taipei as the new American
opinion for or against the
Consul for Taiwan.
rice rationing system and the
government purchase of rice
12 General Ando, former Japan-
from the farmers at a fixed
ese Governor-General of Tai-
price.
wan, and Lt.-Gen. Isayama,
Chief-of-Staff of the Japan-
7 J. D. Sturgeon of the U.S.
ese Army in Taiwan, were
Consulate-General in Shang-
among those tried by a Chi-
hai arrived at Taiwan to
nese court-martial immediate-
study the need of re-opening
ly after their arrest in Tai-
an American consulate in
pei.
Taiwan. Mr. Sturgeon left on
Jan. 11.
14 The Japanese war criminals
in Taiwan, including General
11 Fan Show-kang replaced Chao
Ando and Lt.-Gen. Isayama,
Nan-chuan as director of the
were handed over to the
Department of Education.
American Army Headquart-
ers in Shanghai for trial.
Feb. 4 Lt.-Gen. Chen Kung-dah was
appointedDeputy
Com-
19 Gen. Toshiyoshi Ando com-
mander-in-Chief of the Tai-
mitted suicide by poisoning at
wan Garrison General Head-
the Shanghai Ward Road Jail
quarters.
while under the custody of
U. S. Forces in China as a
5 Lee Wen-wan, special com-
war criminal.
missioner sent by the Na-
tional Government to bring
25 Yen Chia-kan replace Chang
comforts to the people of Tai-
Yen-cheh as director of the
wan, arrived at Taipei.
Department ofFinance.
Chang was shifted to be
10 The Office Of The Governor
director of the Secretariat.
sent its representative to Fu-
kien to discuss with Governor
1,850 tons of UNRRA fertiliz-
Liu Chien-shu for the pur-
ers arrived at Keelung.
chase of 10,000 piculs of rice
to help relieve Taiwan's rice
May 1 The Provincial People's Poli-
shortage.
tical Council opened for a
two-week session with Huang
16 Supervisory
Commissioner
Chao-chin elected as chair-
Yang Liang-kung for Fukien
man.
37

=== Page 77 === (confidence 1.00)
9 The Taiwan Liaison Group
Warm Springs on the out-
of the U.S. Forces in China
skirts of Taipei.
withdrew from Taiwan upon
complation of its mission.
July 1 The Planning and Examina-
tion Committee of the Office
18 Robert J. Catto arrived at
Of The Governor was form-
Taipei to be new director of
ed.
the United States Informa-
tion Service.
7 The ninth anniversary of the
the Lukouchiao outbreak was
20 The Bank of Taiwan formal-
observed in Taipei in a mem-
ly opened for business after
orial service held in honor of
its reorganization.
those dead in the war against,
Japan.
June 2 An earthquake was recorded
at 10 o'clock 9 minutes and
8 An earthquake was recorded
28 seconds lasting for 20
at 14 o'clock 41 minutes and
seconds.
33.5 seconds in the Taipei
area lasting two minutes and
7 General Ho Yin-chin arrived
19 seconds.
at Taipei for a brief tour.
Fifteen delegates to the Na-
24 Governor Chen left by night
tional Congress from Sze-
train for Takao to review the
chuen and Sikang provinces
62nd Army. He returned on
arrived at Taipei for an in-
July 27.
spection tour.
25 Lt. Gen. Isayama, formerly
13 Jen Hsien-chun, new director
Chief-of-Staff of the Japan-
of the Department of Coin-
ese Army in Taiwan, was
munications assumed office.
sentenced to life imprison-
ment by the United States
23 Commissioner Pauley of the
Military Court in Shanghai
U.S. Reparations, Commission
for killing 14 American fliers
during the war. The seven
had to cancel his trip to Tai-
other Japanese war criminals
wan on account of bad wea-
ther.
taken from Taiwan for the
same trial received sentences
26 The Taiwan Educational
varying from 20 years to
Conference opened at Zosan
death.
Published by:
The New Taiwan Publishing Co., Ltd.
TAIPEI, TAIWAN
38

=== Page 78 === (confidence 1.00)
THE NEW TAIWAN MONTHLY
Subscription Form
NO..
NAME:
ADDRESS:
PERIOD:
FROM
ISSUE TO
ISSUE
PÀYMENT:
DELIVERY: ORDINARY OR AIRMAIL
To" The New Taiwan Publishing Co., Ltd.,
.31/702, Gordon Road, Shanghai
Date:
Dear Sir,
I am enclosing herewith the above subscription form with a draft or
a money order on
Bank. Please enrol my name in
your mailing list as from next issue and acknowledge receipt.
Truly yours,
THE NEW TAIWAN MONTHLY
Subscription Form
NO..
NAME:
ADDRESS:
PERIOD:
FROM
ISSUE TO
ISSUE
PAYMENT:
DELIVERY: ORDINARY OR AIRMAIL
To The New Taiwan Publishing Co., Ltd.,
.31/702, Gordon Road, Shanghai
Date:
Dear Sir,
I am enclosing herewith the above subscription form with a draft or
a money order on
Bank. Please enrol my、name in
your mailing list as from next issue and acknowledge receipt.
Truly yours,

=== Page 79 === (confidence 1.00)
Subscription Rates
3 months
6 months
Local & Outports
(ordinary Mail)
C.N.C.$2,000
C.N.C.$3,500
Outports (Airmail)
C.N.C.$2,500
C.N.C.$4,500
In U. S. A.
(Ordinary Mail)
US$1.00
US$2.00
(Airmail)
US$1.30
US$2.60
Subscription Rates
3 months
6 months
Local & Outports
(ordinary Mail)
C.N.C.$2,000
C.N.C.$3,500
Outports (Airmail)
C.N.C.$2,500
C.N.C.$4,500
In U. S. A.
(Ordinary Mail)
US$1.00
US$2.00
(Airmail)
US$1.30
US$2.60

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
Beginning from the September issue of The New Taiwan Monthly,
advertisements will be received on application with the business office of
The New Taiwan Publishing Co.. Ltd.. located at 31/702, Gordon Road,
Shanghai.
ADVERTISINGRATES
In China
In Taiwan
(Outside of Taiwan)
CNC$ 40,000
11 Page
Y. 800
CNCS 70,000
Page
Y.1,500
CNC$120,000
Page
Y.2,800

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INGUTELEGRAM
OF
PLAIN
DIVISION
15-N
221947
11A
Control 6968
Action:
FR
Info
Rec'd Fobruary 22, 1947
SLS
8:24 a.m.
A-B
Office of
A-H
FROM:
London
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SA/M
EUR
TO:
Secretary of State
FEB 911947
OOD
DIRECTOR
CIG
NO:
1210, Twenty-second
Dapartment of State
DOL
ITP
ONE
TIMEs today publishes item from Tokyo
OFD
correspondent under February 21 dateline substance of
PC
which followe
010
Ahile officials US Military Govt lssue repeated exhortations
PA
Jap poople on necessity their guarding right free
OC/R
apeech, freedom exnremsior rocomes increasingly dirfioult
894.917/2-2247
because Us ceneors s axpression cpinion by Jap
press and even prohibit quotations from newspepers
Allled Nations Latest menifestation is banning
February 21 Sir Robert Clive's lotter published TIMES
February 14. Clive's letter, which outpointing Us
alone abie supply Japan cctton and money essential her
esonomy, drow attentlon to great respect in whioh
Britaln held by Japen in past and streseed his desire
see British incereets revived. Thie lotter ready for
pubiicatlon !sading Tozyo newspaper whon censors
summarily rejocted it without giving any reason. Same
cenaor recently cut Lord Bryce's "Modern Demooracies
so sevsrely as to make publication in Japanese 1mpossible.
Two. Thus far press has refrained from editorial
coment.
Dept pass USPOLAD Tokyo.
GALLMAN
Passed to Tokyo by Dept. 10 a.m 2/22/47 (CWO-NPL)
FEB 28 1947
RB:FAE
王
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
HIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Mar. 25.
JKE
London despatch
encloses copy of letter
of Feb 14 by former Brit-
ish Ambassador to Japan
Clive to The Times. The
letter was the subject of
e question in Commons fol-
lowing reports that SCAP
had banned its publication
in Japan. Under-Secretary
Mayhew's answer, following
inquiry of the British
Mission in Tokyo, was that
the letter had not been
censored because of its
contents but because, as
subsequently reported in
The Times of 25 February,
The Times as such had

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
-2--
no formal license to
distribute news in Japan.
He added that this had
been adjusted and the
letter had been published.
Reading of the letter
leeds one to suspect that
the ban may not have been
entirely for technical
ressons and that publica-
tion may eventually have
been decided on reluc-
tantly to avoid further
comment.
RAF: xa
7

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.92)
C01216
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy
London, March 6, 1947
AIR MAIL
UNRESTRICTED
10. 4154
Subject: Censoring of Article in Japan
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington
894.
Sir:
1. I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's
telegram No. 1210, February 22, 1947, on the reported
1C
censoring by the U.S. military authorities in Japan of
a letter publishea in the February 14, 1947 issue of
The Times unaer the name of Sir Robert Clive, former
British Ambassador in Japan.
N
FE
.5
2. In view of the publicity spread in Britain
LUBEUR
over this issue (largely us the result of the cable
人
from The Times' Tokyo correspondent which was summarized
CIC
in the Embassy's reference telegram), there is trans-
4/M
mitted herawith, for the Department's recorus, a copy
of Sir Robert Clive's letter. in so far as the Embassy
CID
1s aware, the British press refrained from the publica-
D
tion or any editorial comment on the subject.
FR
3. The issue was raised in the House of Commons
on February 27th when Mr. Skeffington-Lodge, Labor M.P.
MIS
for Bedford, put aown a written question on the subject.
The Hansard transcript of the proceedings is as follows:
ONI
"ir. Sksffington-Lodge asked the Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has
been arawn to the steps recently taken by U.S. censors
to prevent the ventilation in the Japanese Press of
views designed to establish improvod relations between
4 44, 94
Britain and Japan; whether this action was taken after
consultation with the Advisory council; and whether he
will make a statement.
O
"Mr. Vayhew (Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State
08
for Foreign Affairs): My hon. Friena has doubtless in
1
mind a report which ap eared in 'The Times' of 22nd
20
February, that the Supreme Commanaer for the Alliad
Powers' Censorship Authorities in Japan haa banned
the publication/
CF
JF Un
ac
3
2

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatch 4145
Page 2.
March 6, 1947
from London
the publication in cne of the leading Japanese news-
papers of a letter to 'The Times' by one of cur former
Ambassauors to Japan. Investigation shows that it was
not censored because cf its contents, but because, as
subsequently reported in 'The Times' of 25th February,
'The Times,' as such, haa no rormal licence to distri-
bute news in Japan. This has been adjusted and the
letter has been published."
4. We ather from informal conversations with
Foreigr Office officials that this incident aroused no
particular commotion in the Foreign Office upon its
disclosure in The Times. However, when it became known
that a question was being put down in the House of
Commons on the subject, the Foreign Office asked for
a report from Tokyo. r. Mayhew's statement, quoted
above, was based on the reply received from Tokyo.
Respectfully yours,
For the Charge d'Affaires ad interim:
Everett F. Drumright
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure:
Copy of letter by Sir Kobert Clive,
ap earin: in The Times -Fehruary 14, 1947
(Original and hectograph to
the Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SeAP, Tokyo
EFDrumright/ws

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 4l45 dated
March 6, 1947
from American Embassy, London, England.
SOURCE: The Times, LON DOH, February 14, 1947
TO THE EDITOR OF THE TEMES
Sir: I read with much interest the report from your Tokyo
Correspondent in The Times of February 1l of a recent meeting
of the United Hations study committee at which Mr. Ito, a
former Japanese Ambassador in Poland, expressed his regret
that Gregt Britain was  laying so small a part in Japan to-
day "althou h she had so much to offer and had been highly
respected in the past."
I find it littlo less than tragic that we appear to
have renourced all in terest in the Far East. When I first
went to Japan in 1905 as third secretary at His Majesty's
Legation (as it then was) it is no exaggeration to say that
Great Britain was the one nation in the world the Japanese
respected and admired. The alliance had been of inestimable
bonefit to them during the war with Russia. We had played
a leading role in almost every branch of their public services
excent the army, und though it is probably true that the Jap-
anese instinctively disliked all the white races, it is equally
true that they disliked the ritish less than any other because
at that time they were grateful for what we had done for them.
Moreover they respected our ancient monarchy. The leading
scholars in Jupanese were all Eritish - Satow, Chamberlain,
Gubbins. For Chamberlain in particular, who was very out-
spoken, they had the reatest respect.
To-day the United States have complete ascendancy.
Their word is law. They alone are in a position to supply
the essential cotton the Japanese must have if they are to
recover their export trade. They alone can supply the money
when Japan, once a peace treaty is signed, will be wanting
a loan.
lone the less it is distressing to feel we are feebly
renouncing all interust in the country. Eighty million Jap-
anese cannot permanently be kept in subjection, and though
one can never forgive the revolting barbarities they prac-
tised in the war I shoula be very glad to hear that a mission
of educational and industrial experts was going out there with
the prectical purpcse of reviving British interest in this
great Asiatic country. I have little doubt they would be
welcome.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
R.H. Clive.
Cherry Orchara, Forest Row, Sussex, Feb. 1l.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
Fil.
DO NOT DETAOH THIS FORM!
in
894.917/3-647
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
L.ONDON
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
4154
--000--
NOV 10 1947
FILED

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
American Embassy
London, March 6, 1947
APR 28 1947
AIR MAIL
00-1216
UNRESTRICTED
Rec'd. DCL
Mar. 21, 1947
No. 4154
1:45
Subject: Censcring of Article in Japan
ACTION:
FE
INFO:
EUR
OIC
SA/
The Honorable
DCR
The Secretory of Stats,
FR
Hashington
CCD
MIS
Sirs
ONI
1. I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's
Pol -
telepram No. 1210, February 22, 1947, on the reported
A~O~0-0
censcring by the U. S. nilitary authorities in Japan of
68
a letter published in the Fobruary 14, 1947 issue of
The Timse under the name of Sir Robert Clive, former
British Ambassador in Japan.
2. In viow of the publicity spread in Britain
over this issue (largely as the result of the cable
frem The Timegt Tokyo correspondent which was summarized
in the Embassy's referenee telogram), there is trans-
mitted herewith, for the Department's records, a copy
of Sir Robert Clive's letter. In so far as the Embassy
is aware, the British press refrained from the publica-
tion of any editorial comment on the subject.
3. The issue was raised in the House of Commons
on February 27th when Er. Skeffington-Lodge, Labor M.P.
for Bedford, put down a ritten question on the subject.
The Hemaard transcript of the proceedings is as follows:
. Skeffington-Lodge asked the Seeretary of
State for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has
been drawn to the steps recently taken by U. S. censors
to prevent the ventilation in the Japanese Press of
views designed to establish improved relations between
Britain and Japan, whether this action was taken after
consultation with the Advisory Couneil; and whether he
will make a statement.
"Mr. Mayhew (Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State
for Foroign Affairs): My hon. Friend has doubtless in
mind a report which appeared in 'The Times' of 22nd
February, that the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers' Consorship Authorities in Japan had banned
the puhlication/

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
Despatch 4145
Page 2.
March 6, 1947
from London
the publicstion in one of the leading Japanese newa-
papers of a letter to 'The Times' by one of our former
Ambasgadors to Japan. Investigation shows that it was
not consered because of its contents, but because, as
subsequently reported in 'The Times' of 25th February,
'The Times,' as cuch, had no formal licence to distri-
bato news in Japan. This has been adjusted and the
lottor hes been published."
4. Ne Gather from informal convereations with
Foredgn Office officials that this ineldent aroused no
particular commotion in tho Forsign Office upon its
Rleelomove in Phe Tinea.
Hovever, rhen it beeame known
that  qousticn vas being put down in the House of
Commore ou the subject, the Foreign Office askod for
a ae Prom Fotye. Vr. Hayhew's statemene, quoted
shove, was beaend en the reply received from Tokyo.
Respcetfully youre,
For the Chergo d'Affaires ad interim:
Evevett P. Drumright
Fivet Seeretary of Embassy
Enelosure:
Copy of loster by Sir Robert Clive,
oppooring in Tha Timan, Fobruary 14, 1947
(Oripinal and heetograph to
the Department)
Copy to U. S. Tolitical Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
EPDroright/vC

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 4145 datedarch 6. 1967
from American Embassy, London, England.
SOURCE: The Timee, LONDON, February 14, 1947
TO THE EDITOR OF THE TI ES
Sir: I road with much interest the report from your Tokyo
Correspondent in The Times of February 1l of a recent meeting
of the Uuited Nations study com-ittee at which Mr. Ito,
former Japanese Ambassador in Poland, expressed his regret
thet Great Britain was playing so small a part in Japan to-
day "elthough she had so much to offor and had been highly
respeoted in the past."
I find it little less than tragio that we appear to
heve renounced all interest in the Far East When I first
Went to Japan in 1905 as third secretary at His Majesty's
Legation (as it then was) it is no exaggeration to say that
Grent Britain wss the one nation in the world the Japanese
respected and admired. Tho elliance had been of inestimablo
becefit to then durinp the war with Russia. We had played
a loading role in almost every branch of their public servioes
except the army, and though it is probably true that the Jap-
anese instinetively disliked all the white races, it is equally
true that they disliked the British less than any other beeeuse
at thst time they were grateful for what we had done for them.
Moreover they respected our ancient monarchy. The leading
scholars in Japanese were all British - Satow, Chamberlain,
Cubbins. For Chamberlain in particular, who was very out-
spcken, they had the greatest respect.
To-day the United States have complete ascendancy.
Their mord is law. They alone are in a position to supply
the essentlal cotton the Japanese must have if they are to
recover their export trade. They slone can supply the money
when Japan, once & peace treaty is signed, will be wanting
a loan.
None the less it is distressing to fesl no are feebly
renouncing all interest in the country. Bighty million Jap~
anese cannot permanently be kept in subjestion, and though
one can never forgive the revolting barbarities they prao-
tised in the war I should be very glad to hear that a mission
of educational end industrial experts was going out there with
the precticsl purpose of reviving British interest in this
preat Asiatic country. I have little doubt they would be
welcome.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
R. H. Clive.
Cherry Orchard, Forest Row, Sussex, Feb. 1l.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.89)
7000
WORLD YOUTH—-EL QUITO ROAD, LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA
apri1 20,1048
The .asistant secret ry or state
Depu tment of State
894.917/4-2048
washington, ).c.
Dear sir:
I  enclosing  copy or our non-political advonture story
Lhe cezine, orld Youth. also a ciroular telling who we are, what we
are duine und vhy v ure doing it.
we would like very much to ply a userul part in the education
of the boys and cirls of vapan. will rou pleuse tull me the corruct
pro edure to introduce this rrguzine to the apanese people:
IVISIII G  RIAS
I. ill this magazine be permitted to go to upan?
4
É0 IC AAIRS
2. re we allowed to ask for paid subseriptions?
ApR28 1948
30
Is there a fund in  overnment ageney which chooses
magazines ror certain countries and pays for them?
tave severul times been asked by the war department for
custria, demmany nd Prieste.
Thankin. you for uny inrormation you cun sive us, I um
th
GS
Yours very truly,
Business anager

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
The Rattle Snake God
of Chichen Itza
A Story of the Ancient Maya
by MAUDE MEAGHER
Do you think of Mexico as a land of happy, friendly folks, fine craftsmen, kindly people, with
modern cities here and there, a progressive government now striving to right age-old injustices, to
educate its rural population and bring Mexico into the forefront of the community of nations?
So it is. But how clearly do you visualize also the mighty empires, the rich cultures from which
this modern land derives much of its thought, its feeling and its arts?
Beginning September and running through ten months, World Youth will prcsent a modern
adventure story, picturing both modern Mexico and the Maya civilization, which is thought by many
to have been the most brilliant cultural expression of aneient America.
The STRANGE and WONDERFUL
Country of INdi
A HOUSEBOAT IN KASHMIR
THE KHYBER PASS
RAS.
Read the Thrilling Adventure Stories of India and its People
Also
STORIES OF ADVENTURE
iln
SWITZERLAND — JAVA — EIRE — CHINA — THE AMERICAS
LAPLAND — DENMARK — AFRICA — and other countries

=== Page 93 === (confidence 1.00)
PASADENA CITY SCHOOLS
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
351 SOUTH HUDSON AVE.
Pasadena, California
The copies of "World Youth" have given me a great thrill.
The whole atmosphere and spirit of the publication seems to me to be
of a quality that should guarantee its success.
I will bring these copies of the magazine to the attention of school and
library heads with whom I come in contact, and you are at liberty to use
any portion of my letter that might be of any value in your publicity. I
have never before allowed my name to be used for promotional enterprises,
but this publication, "World Youth," seems to me to be on a wholly different
plane from others I have seen, and I believe the time has come when all peo-
ple of good will should unite in support of efforts of this kind.
The urgency of using every possible means to bring about mutual under-
standing among the youth of the world is the basis of my interest in this
publication.
The quality and variety of the writing, the art work and the printing
seem to me to be worthy of the great purposes of the magazine. The photo-
graphic illustrations are delightfully selected.
I believe there is a real need for periodicals in organized education to
supplement books, and there are not too many now available.
In my judgement portions of this publication would be useable by the
tifth or sixth grades, but in general I should think it would be more applica-
ble for the seventh grade and the beginning of the secondary schools.
All good wishes and my thanks for bringing this publication to my
attention.
Cordially
GERTRUDE LAWS
DIRECTOR
EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

=== Page 94 === (confidence 1.00)
Some Comments on World Youth
THE KNOX SCHOOL
WEBB SCHOOL of CALIFORNIA
Cooperstown, New York
Claremont, California
I thank you for your letter and the copy of
WORLD YOUTH. I gave this to the head of our
World Youth measures fully up to the promise
lower school and she had several of the Eighth
of its subtitle as a magazine of 'Thrilling Adven-
Grade students write letters regarding it. As you
ture Stories and Authentic Tales from Distant
can see by these letters, which I enclose herewith,
Lands.' Moreover, it offers a wealth of excellent
the students are very much interested, and we
illustrations—a feature that makes it especially
shall be very glad to subseribe to the magazine.
attractive to all ages. We have found World Youth
You are doing a very worthwhile piece of work
both instructive and stimulating, and believe it
in editing the magazine which will bring the rest
could be used very effectively in class work to
of the world nearer our youngsters and help them
arouse and hold interest.
to appreciate the fact that children in other lands
Sincerely yours,
are not very different from themselves. Our chil-
THOMPSON WEBB
dren all mention that the stories are most inter-
Headmaster
esting and tell them more than the geography
WEBB SCHOOL FOR BOYS
texts can possibly tell them. I am sure that you
will be pleased with their response.
Yours very sincerely,
Louise Phillips Houghton, Principal
IMPORTANT FACTS
I enjoy World Youth. It gives me stories about
ABOUT
countries we have studied in geography class. In
"World Youth"
my mind I can see the location of the country and
I can put the story in a definite place. It makes the
reading more interesting.
Jo Ann Smith
1. No connection with any movement or organi-
zation.
WORLD YOUTH
No polities or religious propaganda.
Thrilling Stories of
Adventure and Friendship
3.
The Adrenture Stories are based on authentic
all over the World
backgrounds.
telling
Customs, Costumes,History,
4.
The Pict ures are authentic.
Geography
5. The purpose—to build in the minds of boys
and girls an understanding and an appreci-
Illustrated by
ation of people different from themselves.
Authentic Photographs
6.
A magazine exciting enough to encourage boys
WORLD YOUTH
and girls in good reading.
ADVENTURE STORY MAGAZINE
7. World Youth is owned entirely by Maude
Published monthly
Meagher and Carolyn D. Smiley.
(except July and August)
by World Youth, Inc., Los Gatos, California
8.
World Youth is a Massachusetts corporation,
$2.50 a year
established in 1936 for education.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
CASA TIERRA—EL QUITO ROAD, LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA
AND
where we now print and publish World Youth
MAUDE MEAGHER and CAROLYN SMILEY
EDITOR AND WRITER
Maude Meagher has written several books dealing with short periods in
history:—"White Jade" (China during the T'ang dynasty): "Portrait in
Mosaic" (Sixth century Constantinople); "The Green Scamander" (13th to
11th century B. C. on the Black Sea shore) ; "Fantastic Traveller" etc., and
was Foreign Correspondent for the San Francisco Chronicle at London for
about nine years. She also wrote adventure serials for the Children's News-
paper of London for over eight years.
BUSINESS MANAGER
The business department is headed by Carolyn Smiley, who is co-pub-
lisher with the editor, Maude Meagher. She has lived in India and many
other parts of the world as educator, lecturer and photographer.
WORLD YOUTH IS $2.50 A YEAR

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
WORLD YOUTH
THRILLING ADVENTURE STORIES
and Authentic Tales From Distant Lands
Vol. VII. No. 4
Twenty-five cents
April 1948
STRANGE
AND
WONDERFUL
INDIA
da

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
World
Youth
Contents for April 1948
Page
MYSTERY OF THE ONE ARMED SAILOR
2
A STORY OF FINLAND—Marion Tonlinson
THE METAL MIRRORS OF ARANMULA
14
A STORY OF INDIA—K. P. P. TamPy
SCIENCE KNOWS NO NATIONAL BOUNDARIES
18
AIR—SEA LEVEL AND UP—Raydelle Josephson
THE RATTLESNAKE GOD OF CHICHEN ITZA
22
AN HISToRICAL ADVENTURE—Maude Meagher
MY FRIENDS— HANSEL AND GRETEL
32
A StoRY OF RacCoOnS—Era Zistel
STRANGE AND WONDERFUL COUNTRY OF INDIA
36
THE BABY ON THE GHAT—John Holden
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
20
INFORMATION QUIZ
48
WORLD YOUTH is published monthly (except July and August) by World Youth, Inc.
El Quito Road, Los Gatos, California, U.S.A.
25 cents a copy, $2.50 publishing year—ten months
"Entered as second-class matter January 13, 1947
at the post office at Los Gatos, California under the Act of March 3, 1879."
Copyright 1948 by World Youth, Inc.
WORLD YOUTH is not connected with any organization or movement.
MAUDE MEAGHER
Editor
CAROLYN SMILEY
Business Manager

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
The Mystery
of the
One ArmedSailor
A Story of Finland
By MARION TOMLINSON
OE Mikkelsson touched the accelerator
AR(TIC OCEAN
lightly with his foot and the singing note
made by Susie's tires on the gravelled
roadway ran higher in key. There seemed to be no
other sound in the world but that, a contented.
singing hum of speed through a vast empty world
of sunny sky and sparkling lakes. The air that
blew through the open windows of the car was
clean and fresh and just cold enough to make him
feel wonderful.
Some half remembered lines from Lewis Car-
roll came into his mind and he began to shout
them above the sound of the speeding tires.
"The sun was shining on the sea
Shining with all his might:
And this was odd, because it was
The middle of the night . . ."
The time was, in fact, about forty minutes
past midnight, and the great red-gold disk of the
sun was already well above the horizon, throwing
long black shadows across the grey road. As he
rounded a slight bend he saw up ahead a herd of
several hundred reindeer ambling slowly across
the highway, and slackened his speed. Reindeer
have for automobiles the contempt these mechani-
cal newcomers to the Aretic deserve. Reindeer
know they were there first and yield no inch of
ground. For the next few minutes Joe was very
busy indeed, dodging infant reindeer whose cu-
riosity got the better of them, stopping while
RAS.
RIASIA
mother reindeer butted their offspring out of the
FINLAND IS SHAPED LIKE A DANCING GIRL
Paye Two
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
path of danger, and warily circling father rein-
skiing world (for he had visited many times be-
deer .. ho were prepared to dispute the right of
fore the war its streamlined skiers' hotel of shim-
way with this shiny monster who had no business
mering glass and concrete), he looked about him
on the Great Arctic Highway, which traversed
heartsick. Little was left of the city but the tall
territory which had been theirs alone for thous-
red-brick chimneys the Finns call "Hitler's Mon-
ands of years.
uments". The city was totally destroyed in the
At last he got through them, and the Great
vicious punitive retreat of the German army in
Arctic Highway stretched southward before him.
1944.
empty and serene under the midnight sun, while
When Finland signed the armistice with Rus-
the reindeer continued their journey toward the
sia, some 100,000 Nazi troops were trapped in the
North Pole and Santa Claus, cropping a wayside
North and East of Finland. Russia demanded
breakfast of moss among the bright ephemeral
that the Finns drive them out. The Finnish arn-
flowers of the Arctic Circle.
ies re-formed along the Oulu river and drove the
Joe was on a serious mission, and during the
Nazis northward and out of Finland. On their
next few days his life was going to be in extreme
way the Nazis devastated the entire country, set-
danger, but at that moment, in the exhilarating
ting fire to every farmhouse, barn and haystack
air of Finnish Lapland, he did not feel serious at
in their path, and leaving mines to kill any home-
all: he felt immortal. He stepped once more on
comers who might return to the sites. More than
the accelerator, and sped southward toward Ro-
175,000 people fled, and these were the people
vaniemi.
Joe was helping to resettle in new homes.
At Rovaniemi he stopped for a sleep, although
There was much in devastated Rovaniemi to
the sun was high. He was tired, although he could
give one hope, however, as Joe noted on his way
not be said to have driven day and night, because
through the town toward the inn where he was
in North Finland between May 22 and July 23
to sleep. The indomitable Finnish government
there is no night. The sun does not set at all, and
had turned the wrecked town over to Finland's
the twenty-four hour days are hot. He had come
famous architect, Alvar Aalto, and a new stream-
down from the region around Lake Inari where
lined city was rising under his direction, the most
refugees from the Petsamo region and other
modern city in Finland. a jewel of glass and con-
northeastern sections of Finland ceded to Russia
(rete set right in the Aretic circle to become once
were being resettled on Finnish government land.
more a paradise for skiers from all over the
Joe was one of an international youth group or-
world.
ganized by the Quakers to help in the building of
Next morning Joe followed the Kemi river
houses for these homeless people.
southwest to the seaport town of Kemi. He al-
For a year, first in the blizzards and darkness
rmost made a detour to the inland town of Kuu-
of the Aretic winter, and la-
ter in the perpetual sunshine
of the Arctic summer he and
the others had worked with
the Finns to build new towns
in what were known as the
Petsamo Triangles. — trian-
gular chunks of government
land which had been given to
the refugees. Now he was on
a quick trip south to Helsinki
to arrange about a shipment
BA14S0
of warm clothes and food sent
by his club in Minnesota, for
he was Finnish-American by
birth.
At Rovaniemi, which he
remembered as a very smart
capital of the international
REINDEER MEETS AUTO ON FINLAND'S GREAT ARCTIC HIGH WAY
World Youth. April 1948
Page Three

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
samo, called the "City of korsus", for, since all
come ashore from one of the tramp freighters
his waking hours were spent in construction of
the harbor, approached him for a lift to Helsinki.
new homes. he wanted to see for himself how they
he responded with enthusiasm.
were getting on in that terribly devastated city
"Sure you can come with me," he said. "I
where for years the people had lived in under-
thought I'd drive on to Ii this afternoon. I've
ground huts built as barracks, first by the Fin-
been told of a farmhouse there that takes paying
nish soldiers fighting the Russians, then by the
guests. Then get on to Oulu in time to shoot the
victorious Russians. He knew that a fine new
rapids tomorrow. I've always wanted to do that.
hospital had already been built there to take care
They say it's great sport."
of the illness caused by these insanitary, airless,
The sailor, who had spoken to him in a low
underground rooms which, nevertheless, had been
voice, almost furtively, when he had asked Joe's
the people's only shelter against the blizzards and
destination and then requested a lift, turned from
artillery fire that raged back and forth above
his examination of the car.
their heads.
"This is a good car," he remarked. "Almost
Joe took out his road map and considered tak-
new. A pleasure to drive, I think, no?"
ing the highway eastward to Kuusamo and then
"Sure," said Joe. "Susie does fine. How come
continuing inland down to Heisinki. His map.
you speak such good English? It's better than
which was prewar, showed the shape of Finland
mine."
like that of a dancing girl with her head toward
the North Pole. her arms upraised, her skirts
The man shrugged. "I went to school," he
swirling to east and west, and the toe of her bal-
said. "I have not always been a sailor."
let slipper poised on Leningrad in Russia. He
"You're not Finnish, are you?" asked Joe cu-
knew that the ceding of lands to Russia had tak-
riously.
en off her right arm to the east (the Petsamo
The man's face froze. Then he smiled, but
region), thinned her waist on the east of Kuusa-
with his lips only.
mo, and taken off her ballet slipper (Karelia).
"Oh yes," he said. "Why not? May I enter
But with these adjustments to the map in his
your car? How soon shall we leave?"
mind he could read it easily enough.
"What the heck," thought Joe momentarily
Joe shook his head and folded the map. "Bet-
ill at ease. "He's no Finn. Why doesn't he ad-
ter not take time for the detour." he told himse!f.
mit it? There's a little bit the air of a Prussian
little knowing that if he had followed his impulse.
about him . . . but still, what would an educated
and gone by way of Kuusamo instead of Kemi.
Prussian be doing on a tramp freighter?" The
he would have been spared several attacks on his
thought vanished, blown away by the invigorat-
life, lost a chance to save the life of someone else.
ing air and Joe's general sense of well-being and
and bring a criminal to justice.
security.
However, feeling utterly secure, for there is
"Pile in, brother." he said heartily. "We're
very little crime in Finland, Joe sped down to-
off. And, by the way, my name is Joe Mikkelsson.
ward Kemi, exulting in the clean invigorating
What's yours?"
scents of the pine, fir and spruce forests thai
The sailor hesitated barely a second. "Paavo
came down to the river on either side, and the
Murto, at your service," he said.
delicate pale green and silver trunks of the
"Well. that's a good Finnish name, at any
birches. Finland is seventy-five per cent forest :
rate," thought Joe unsuspiciously. "I guess the
it is her greatest source of wealth.
guy's all right. Anyway, what can I lose? May-
At Kemi the salty breezes blowing from the
be he'll turn out to be good company on the drive
Bay of Bothnia mingled with the forest scents.
south. There's still a lot of it."
and there was the keen smell of ships and fish.
Paavo Murto (if that was his name) certain-
Joe parked his car and got out for a stroll down
ly put himself out to be good company on the run
one of the wooden wharfs to look across the
down to the little town of Ii. For a sailor, he
sparkling blue water which would be stiff with
seemed to know a good deal about automobiles.
ice in a few months' time. Everyone was revel-
and insisted on taking over the wheel from Joe.
ling in the sunlight now, and Joe himself felt so
He handled the car cleverly with his one hand.
full of vitality he could have shouted.
So when a one-armed sailor, evidently newly
"One man cannot drive fifteen to eighteen
Page Four
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 101 === (confidence 1.00)
hours a day as you have been
doing, my friend," he said.
"If we take it in turns we can
make better time, no?"
"Are you in a hurry?"
asked Joe carelessly.
The sailor looked at him
sharply. "Naturally. I have
only a short leave."
GREENL
"What are you going to
do—regain your ship at some
southern port?"
The sailor seemed about
to tell him it was none of his
business, then controlled him-
self with an effort. But a
scar on the side of his face
glowed red. Joe paid no at-
tention. It was really too
glorious a day to bother. He
FINLAND STRETCHES NORTHWARD TOWARD THE POLE
put back his head and went
to sleep, only waking when they stopped beside
man.
a well-built log cabin on the outskirts of Ii.
"Then we'll make them a nice present," said
"I propose that we do not stay with these peas-
Joe. "We both will. You have money, I presume.
ants," said the sailor, and Joe thought with
The Finns aren't any too well off these days, you
amusement that he seemed to have taken over di-
know. They're paying their debts like honest
rection of the trip. "I suppose that you Ameri-
people."
cans do not know about the Finnish steam bath.
The sailor turned on him with a snarl, quickly
called the sauna. It is quite refreshing, and if
suppressed, and nodded.
we order these peasants to prepare one for us in
Joe did not tell him that he knew the sauna
that bath house over there, we can then push on
very well indeed, having taken hundreds of them
without sleep."
even in the dead of winter in the Aretic, when
Joe contemplated his travelling companion
the hot steam bath and rub down were followed
lazily, and a brief feeling of resentment passed
by a roll in the snow or a quick run through a
through his mind. There was something ario.
howling blizzard. He just didn't want to talk to
gant and contemptuous in the way the fellow had
the fellow, and remained silent while directions
pronounced the words "these peasants", and Joe.
were given him as they entered the tight little log
who loved and admired the Finns fervently for
cabin with its pile of glowing hot rocks in the
their indomitable "sisu", which he translated al-
middle and its benches on tiers to the roof. The
most literally as "guts", had a momentary im-
peasant's wife had furnished them with bunches
pulse to pin this fellow's ears back for him. True.
of fresh birch twigs with which they were to whip
the same contempt had sounded in the words
themselves lightly while the perspiration flowed
"you Americans", but Joe never noticed that. He
from the pores of their skin, cleansing them com-
had no inferiority complexes of any kind, either
pletely, while the broken leaves left their skin
national or personal, so it was impossible to in-
smelling sweet and fresh.
sult him.
"You are to climb up on the benches near the
"It's a good idea," he remarked, repressing
roof and lie there while I throw water on these
his belligerent impulse. "I'll ask the lady of the
hot stones. That makes the steam rise and fill
house if it will be convenient for her to have a
the room. It will be hot, but this is good for you
steam bath prepared for us, and how much it will
and makes you perspire," said the sailor.
cost."
"Don't you want me to attend to the water?"
"They won't charge us anything." said the
asked Joe politely.
World Youth. April 1948
Page Fire

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
paratively cool floor, he would very likely have
been scalded to death. Finns never throw more
than a few cupfulls of water on the stones at a
time.
"What on earth are you thinking of," he
gasped as the scalding steam eddied above their
two prostrate forms. "Don't you know better
than that?"
The man turned his head, abject contrition on
his face.
"I am so sorry," he said. "I had no idea the
stones were so hot."
"But of course they're hot," returned Joe
crossly. "You darn near sealded me to death."
He considered the matter silently for a while. Had
it really been an accident? But it was really too
tantastic to think the man had deliberately tried
to kill him. Why should he?
"We can finish our bath on these lower
benches," he said finally, rising, "but from now
on, I regulate the steam."
"Please do." said the sailor, his face contorted
with apologies, "I greatly regret the mishap." Joe
surveyed him for a moment, then shrugged.
The bathhouse was on the edge of the bay.
and the sauna was finished by an invigorating
swim in the cold salt water. Later, as the two
men dressed, Joe noticed that the sailor's eyes
"WATCH YOURSELF. YOUNG FELLOW"
were on him as he took some bills from his wallet.
"He couldn't be meaning to rob me." thought
"No. I will do it. I know how much water
Joe, and deliberately flicked over the paper notes
to throw."
to show how few they were. What never oceurred
Joe nodded and climbed up on to a middle
to him was that his driver's license and other
bench. He could not insist lest he seem to be no-
papers were in that same wallet.
ticing the other's handicap.
The peasant woman and her daughter were
"No, no. Higher up. Lie on the bench just
friendly but shy, and it was hard to make them
under the roof." said the sailor, abruptly.
accept any payment for their hospitality. They
"Don't throw on too much water, then." re-
offered food of their poor best, crisp tunnbröd
marked Joe, lying down on the top bench, cross-
fresh from the oven, and the more substantial
ing his arms under his head and staring at the
sour rye bread. This bread, slow baked in big
ceiling just above his head. "This is the hottest
home ovens, is made in wheels an inch thick and
spot in the room."
twelve to fourteen inches across, with a hole in the
"Ah, you know that, do you, stupid fellow."
middle on which the flat loaves can be strung on
muttered the sailor in a guttural language Joe did
a pole laid across the rafters. It is good, and
not understand, but the tone made him turn his
nourishing, but not very exciting, and the woman
head just in time to see the sailor pick up a pail
lamented that she could not offer her guests, as
containing two gallons of water and empty it on
always before the war, hot tea in tall glasses, with
the glowing stones. At the same time he threw
lemon and sugar and plenty of pastries. The
himself flat on the floor.
Finns are doing without such luxuries today while
Clouds of sealding steam rose to the ceiling.
they strain every nerve to pay heavy reparations
and if Joe had not, the instant he saw the pail
to Russia and to continue payments on their war
lifted, rolled off his bench and down to the com-
debt to the United States, an obligation left from
Page Sir
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
the first world war which they alone, of all the
200,000 horsepower of unfettered energy.
debtor nations, continue to meet.
At the hotel in Vaala, Joe's companion again
Joe's travelling companion rejected the coarse
attempted to take charge.
rye bread brusquely, and went back to the car to
wait while Joe drank his mug of milk and chewed
"If you ride the rapids down river. I will drive
heartily on the bread, trying his best to like it.
the car from here and pick you up at Muhos. Just
The old grandfather had sat silently with his pipe
give me your driver's license and papers so that
in the corner of the clean bare kitchen.
no one will question me."
Joe looked at him. "I've arranged for a
He spoke as Joe was about to leave. "Watch
yourself, young fellow," he remarked, his shrewd
chauffeur from the hotel to drive down and pick
old eyes fixing the young American. "I've seen
u: up. I thought you wanted to ride the rapids."
yon ugly face before, or something like it."
"In that case I will," said the man, and add-
"Where?" asked Joe.
ed, fixing Joe with his hard eyes, "It is your de-
"I wouldn't like to say," returned the old man.
cision, remember. You have only yourself to
"Not liking to do the man an injustice, 'case I'm
blame."
wrong. But remember there were in this country
"Now what the heck did he mean by that?"
not so long ago people who came, we thought, as
thought Joe, and soon forgot the matter in the
friends, and who laid our land and houses bare
thrill of dashing through the famous rapids. Next
to the ground before they left. Remember that.
him sat the sailor, looking rather bored and con-
young man."
temptuous. Suddenly, when the narrow boat was
Joe went thoughtfully back to the car, and
poised on a foaming crest of water, and all the
found the sailor at the wheel.
passengers were carefully obeying the order to
"Move over." he said curtly. "I'll drive from
sit quietly, the man threw himself violently to
now on."
one side. It looked like a deliberate attempt to
The man looked at him sullenly for a moment.
overset the boat. Joe, as he saw the man's action,
but Joe's straight glance did
not waver. Then, instead of
moving over, he climbed into
the back seat. "I'll sleep, then."
he muttered.
They passed through Oulu
rapidly and turned i n l a n d
along the highway beside the
Oulojoki river, for Joe was
eager to get to Vaala, which
lies on the outlet of the river
from Lake Oulujarvi at the
point where the famous rap-
ids begin. As they drove up
river from the little tree-
shaded station of Muhos, the
long narrow boats shot by
them through the foaming
ten-mile stretch of the "Holy
Rapids" and Joe, who had be-
gun to persuade himself he
should not spare the time.
succumbed again to the temp-
tation to experience the thrill
of being carried skilfully
through the boiling masses of
w a t er which represented
THE PEASANT WOMAN AND HER DAUGHTER WERE FRIENDLY BUT SHY
World Youth. April 1948
Page Seren

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
course you no longer desire
my company."
Joe did not reply, and the
sailor took his silence for con-
sent.
"Very well. Since we have
a long journey through the
empty countryside before we
reach the next town of any
size, which is Joensuu, I pro-
pose to sleep in the back of
the car for a few hours while
you drive, then I will take
over."
"Look here, whose car is
this?" began Joe, annoyed.
"I am very tired from the
SHOOTING THE RAPIDS ON THE OULUJOKI
excitement of shooting the
rapids," said the sailor firm-
instinetively threw himself to the opposite side
ly. "I must be the first to rest. I am older than
and the balance was kept.
you."
"Hey there, sit still." shouted the guide anx-
The odd thought came to Joe that instead of
iously.
the worn cheap clothes of a sailor from a tramp
"Excuse me. I was nervous." said the sailor.
freighter, he saw the man before him in dress
with a venomous glance at Joe. Joe noticed they
suit with decorations . . . and a monocle in his
were passing a salmon weir. The sailor was no
eye above the sabre scarred left cheek. The
doubt a strong swimmer. He could make it easily.
thought amused him so that he chuckled and slid
even though others drowned. For that matter.
good-naturedly under the wheel.
Joe was a strong swimmer himself. He noticed.
"All right, then, have your sleep. I'd just as
however, the knotted fist of his travelling com-
soon drive. Sooner, in fact."
panion. One to the jaw of a struggling man un-
He swung Susie into the long empty highway
der water, and the body would be swept on down
and for hours he heard nothing but the shrill
the current, a victim of "accident".
song of her tires as they ate up the miles, and the
"But why, why, why?" thought Joe. "There's
snores of the sailor behind him. The snores ceased
simply no reason. Maybe the guy really was
as they were passing along the tree girt shore
nervous."
of Lake Pielinen. The scenery was so beautiful.
Whatever his purposes might be, Joe had by
and the air so fresh and keen, that Joe did not
pow begun to dislike the fellow intensely. But
feel sleepy. Nevertheless he had driven a long
being fairminded by nature, this feeling of dis-
way, and he thought he would like some sleep be-
like made Joe all the more serupulous not to be
fore arriving at Joensuu. He haif turned to ask
prejudiced against him to the point of injustice.
the other it he was ready to take the wheel for a
However. as they left the boat and walked to-
while.
ward the waiting car, Joe made a half-hearted
At that moment he felt the unmistakable
attempt to get rid of him.
round hard pressure of a gun in his left shoulder.
"How'd you like to go on from here by rail?"
Instantly he pressed the accelerator to the floor
he asked tentatively.
and the car shot down the straight highway at
The man looked hurt. "Do you blame me still
seventy-five miles an hour.
for my unfortunate mistake in the sauna? I as-
"Slow down or I shoot," hissed a voice in his
sure you, you are unjust to me."
ear.
"I just thought . . ." began Joe, "raaybe you'd
"If you shoot we both go into the lake, car
like .. ."
and all. I'll have just time enough to twist the
"No, I wish to drive with you . . . unless of
wheel that way, and I'll do it." returned Joe.
Page Eight
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
calmly. "Besides," he continued, drawling, "I
you're wanted by some police somewhere, and
know you'd shoot me if I did slow down. This is
wanted badly. I don't like mysteries, and I'll be
a nice spot to hide a body. What is it you want.
glad if you'll proceed to clear this one up."
fellow? Is it the car, or my papers, or don't you
The man stared sullenly at the floor.
like my face?"
"Won't talk, eh?" said Joe. "I could make
The gun moved from Joe's shoulder to his
you, you know." The man cringed. "But I guess
head as the man in the back seat began climbing
I won't. We'll just sit here, all cosy, side by side,
cautiously into the front. The roadway had left
until I get you to Helsinki. The authorities there
off hugging the lake shore and was running
can look up your record. I'll bet it's a beauty."
through a meadow in which sheep were grazing.
"No record." said the man. "I only wanted
If only, Joe thought, the sheep did not decide
your car."
all of a sudden to cross the road and wreck him.
"You've had chances to steal it. Or why not
He took his foot off the accelerator. The car obe-
just knock me out? Why kill me for it?"
diently began to slow down.
"You'd have given the alarm." muttered the
The pseudo-sailor, now seated beside him.
other. "My business is personal and private. I
spoke triumphantly.
want no Finnish or American noses poked into
"You see I shoot you, then I take the wheel.
it."
There will be no trouble. And as you have re-
"Okay, okay." grinned Joe, as the car started
marked, there are doubtless fine places along here
smoothly on its way once more. "You'd be sur-
in which to hide a body."
prised how completely uninterested I was in your
Joe dropped sideways and forward over the
affairs until you started your fun and games back
wheel. The gun went off deafeningly, singeing
there in the sauna. What were you going to do,
his hair. At the same time he threw up his right
leave me writhing on the top beneh for old grandpa
hand and caught the other's wrist in a grip that
to find, while you nipped out with my wallet and
made him seream and drop the gum. Joe put his
papers and drove away in my car?"
foot on it. The car swerved and came to a stop.
"It would have been a solution to my prob-
Joe twisted the wrist he held and the man
lem, yes." returned the man coolly.
slid down off the seat on to
the floor, beads of sweat
bursting out on his forehead.
"Now, w hat's t h is all
about ?" said Joe. "But before
you tell me the story of your
ignoble life, I'll just see what
else you've got on you."
There was a short, razor-
sharp claspknife in one pock-
et, but no other weapon. Joe
put the knife in his own pock-
et. and tossed the gun into a
reedy marsh beside the road.
On second thought, he threw
the knife in too.
"Now we're even." he re-
marked, turning back to his
prisoner a n d releasing h is
nerve-shattering pressure on
his arm.
"Ju - jitsu." he explained
with a grin. "It's a good
game in a pinch . . . and I do
mean pinch. I've an idea
IN THE MARKET AT SAVONLINNA
World Youth. April 1948
Page Nine

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
dles were burned each year to
light its many dark stone
rooms."
"Is that so . . . Boy, what's
going on here? The town is
jammed with people."
They were entering the
outskirts of Sortavala, and it
was apparent that one of the
traditional m u s i c festivals
was in progress, for Finland
is a land of music and song.
The Finnish composer Sibe-
lius is accorded international
homage. Joe guided Susie,
who was coughing badly, into
the square where he could
hear the noble strains of
AN OLD RUNES SINGER OF FINLAND
"Finlandia" being sung by
many trained voices.
"But, man! There are hundreds of busses
"If this is a general holiday." he thought, "I'm
and dozens of railways, in Finland, not to speak
sunk. I need a garage and I need it now. Susie's
of the lake and river steamers that will take you
got trouble."
everywhere. Why risk a murder rap?"
Ordinarily he was quite competent to give
The one-armed man said nothing. Joe con-
Susie any attention she might require, but he
templated him for a moment.
dared not take his eye off his prisoner, and to
"Look here." he said finally, "Why don't you
take out his tool box, and put its heavy spanner
tell me your problem, if it's as desperate as all
within reach even of a one-armed man, would
that. Maybe I could help you."
be dangerous.
The man turned on him a glance of unfathom-
The car had stopped, and ignored his attempts
able contempt in which there was a sardonic
to start it again. They sat on the outskirts of the
amusement.
crowd and listened to the magnificent music of
Joe shrugged. "Oh all right, if you think I'm
several hundred voices. As the last notes of the
just a dope. But don't try anything, will you?
chorus died away, an old runes singer stepped out
You missed several chances, and now I'm warned.
in front of a group of younger people and began
and your weapons are gone. I wouldn't find you
to sing some of the traditional songs of Finland.
much of a handful if it came to a scuffle."
These were obviously well known to the listeners.
They drove on in silence, passing through
who gave him rapt attention.
Joensuu without stopping. After several hours
He ended with the haunting strains of "Suo-
of silence Joe's prisoner appeared to make up his
mi's Song". written by a Finnish poet to express
mind to be friendly.
the magic and sorrow of Finland's history, the
"We will soon be in Sortavala," he remarked
melancholy wilderness of her great forests, the
"And not far from there, I understand. at Savon-
clear sparkling beauty of her 60,000 lakes, the
linna, is the famous Olaf's castle, the best pre-
delicacy of her silver birches and the calm. glory
served medieval castle in the northern countries.
of her midnight suns. Suomi is the name the
You have seen it, no?"
Finns give to their country, and when they speak
"No," Joe echoed him shortly, preoccupied in
it, one can hear in the syllables the sound of the
listening to the sound of his car. Every now and
wind in the forest.
then there was a queer noise in the engine.
Joe lost himself in the beauty of the song, and
"Then why do we not drive there for a sight
although he heard his prisoner stir cautiously be-
of it? I assure you it is worth while, or so I have
side him, he was too absorbed to turn his head.
been told. They say that thirteen thousand can-
Even after the song had ended he sat a while mo-
Page Ten
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
tionless, listening to the memory of it in his mind.
peared in an age of bombing planes, so that it is
and when he did turn his head he saw that the
now one of the chief tourist attractions of Fin-
seat beside him was empty, and the car door
land and little more.
swung open.
Joe followed the guide through the dim stone
"Well, good riddance." he thought. "What-
rooms, of which there seemed to be hundreds.
ever the guy's crazy idea is, he'll now try to gei
climbed winding stairways, admired the view
where he's going some other way." He felt a
from the round windows at the top of the towers.
little guilty, for the man was certainly dangerous
and finally separated himself from the party of
and desperate. However, Joe had disarmed him
tourists to wander among the trees outside the
and the Finns are well able to take care of them-
walls and dream of the days when knights were
selves in a fair fight.
Lold enough to fight man to man. and were not
clever enough to send planes through the sky to
Having left his car to be overhauled. he took
drop bombs on defenseless farmers and refugees.
a bus for Olaf's castle at Savonlinna. The lake
surrounds the castle like a moat, and as the little
A slight disturbance in the bushes nearby
steamer chugged toward the landing. Joe noticed
startled him out of his thought, and he turned
that the current was exceedingly swift. It looked
to see a very ragged man dart into a hole in the
to be what it was, a mighty fortress with a long
ground at the base of the thick stone wall. Out
history of battle. It was built. his guide book told
of idle curiosity he followed. The hole was noth-
him, by the Swedes, for Finland was once a part
ng but a small cave, sereened by bushes, and the
of Sweden. Then it was taken by Russia, ceded
man was soon cornered. He stood with his back
to Finland, retaken by the Czars, beseiged by a
to the wall panting with terror and brandishing
Finnish-Swedish army and finally handed over to
a small club.
the Duchy of Finland by Russia a century ago.
"Don't come any nearer." he gasped. in brok-
Its value as a fortress has fortunately disap-
en English. "Leave me alone."
OLAF'S CASTLE AT SAVONLINNA
World Youth. April 1948
Page Eleren

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
then forgot it as he found himself face to face
with the angry eyes of the one-armed sailor.
"Still interfering, eh?" he gritted through his
teeth as he recognized Joe.
"Yep," said Joe. His hand shot out and
caught the hand that held the billet of wood just
as it was being raised to strike. "You know, I'm
really getting curious about . . ." He broke off
with a gasp, for the sailor had let go of the heavy
weapon so that it fell across Joe's wrist, momen-
tarily paralyzing it. In a second the man was off.
crashing after the little ragged fellow who had
taken to his heels.
"Uh-uh." grunted Joe, rubbing his wrist and
FINLAND'S IMPRESSIVE PARLIAMENT BUILDING
watching, "he's driving him toward the water.
"I won't hurt you, friend." said Joe. "What's
Does he mean to drown him? The little thin guy
cating you? You look seared."
"ouldn't be strong enough to swim much in that
The man turned his head and listened anx-
current."
iously. There was a sound of stealthy movement
Coldbloodedly the sailor drove the ragged man
among the bushes. He put a finger to his lips
over the edge, and as he fell, reached out and
for silence, and with his other hand, dropping his
snatched the leather bag that hung around his
makeshift club, pulled Joe farther into the cave.
neck.
Joe, putting aside the sereening bushes in spite
"So now we know," remarked Joe, crashing
of the man's protests, peered out to see what was
down the slope and throwing himself at the sailor
the danger he feared. To his amazement it was
to drag him back from the little man. He was
the one-armed sailor, armed now with a heavy
able to spoil his aim at the leather bag and throw
billet of wood. A wave of annoyance followed the
the sailor off balance, but a powerful arm went
surprise in Joe's mind.
around his neck and they both went into the swift
"The man must be a maniac," he thought.
and icy current. Joe heard the ragged man strug-
going around attacking people like this. Unless.
gling feebly near by, but before he could attempt
of course. it's still me he's after."
to rescue him, he had first to get himself free. A
"Do you know him?" he whispered, turning
well directed right to the chin quickly ended his
to the ragged man at his side.
unequal struggle with the one-armed man.
"Hated to do that," muttered Joe, as with pow-
The man nodded, his eyes big with fear in his
erful strokes he got the limp weight to shore.
thin face.
"Wouldn't strike a cripple ordinarily. It isn't
"What's he after?"
done."
The man looked at him a moment, decided to
As soon as he had got the sailor to shore he
trust him, and pulled from under his ragged shirt
stood, breathing heavily, looking for signs of the
a small leather bag that hung on a string.
other. At last he saw his head rise out of the
"Is it his?"
water for the last time. Apparently he either
The man nodded. "In a way," he admitted.
could not swim at all, or was too weak to make
"Then why don't you give it to him?"
much effort against the strong current. Joe dived
The ragged man opened his mouth to reply
and in a few long strokes was beside him. The
when the one-armed sailor, whose ears must have
man was conscious and clutched his shoulder.
been very keen, suddenly whirled around and
"Now." said Joe firmly, as they sat shivering
plunged through the shrubbery toward the cave's
in the sun beside the still unconscious sailor, "I
mouth. Instantly the little man at Joe's side
want to know what this is all about. Who is this
dropped to his hands and knees and scuttled out
guy and why?"
along the edge of the wall. He moved so silently
"He very important man in Nazi govern-
and swiftly under the leaves that Joe saw he had
ment," said the ragged little fellow in his broken
had a good deal of experience in avoiding atten-
English. "I know him well. In the war I was
tion. He wondered about that for a second, and
his orderly. He lose arm by shell. I wait by him
Page Turtre
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
for doctors. He delirious. Talk. Speak of key
ing the matter over in silence for a while. "You
in bag. I learn this key to vault where hidden
say this guy here is wanted by the Allies. He must
many papers now wanted by Allied Commission.
have some influence to get himself taken on as a
I am very sick of war. I was seeing many good
sailor with one arm, even on a tramp freighter."
people, poor peasants, killed and tortured by our
"He had great power." agreed the ragged
armies in retreat from Finland. I stole the leath-
man, his teeth chattering with cold. "These pa-
er bag from around his neck. I am thinking
pers in the vault belong to many high Nazis. That
maybe it is key to vault where is maybe evidene
gave him power."
that will make him and others like him punished
"Blackmail, eh?" Joe glanced down at the un-
for the things I see them do. I desert the army
conscious form beside him. "You got any rope?"
and make my way back through the Finnish lines
"My fishing line." said the man eagerly. "I
to here. I am fearing very much and I hide my-
unravelled my socks and made it. It is strong."
self."
"We'll wrap it around his waist and his one
"You must have been hiding here for a couple
arm and he won't be able to do much when he
of years or more, then." said Joe. "How do yon
comes to. You come along with me to Helsinki
live?"
and we'll hand him over to the aut horities.
"I catch fish. Sometimes tourists leave a lit
"What will they do to me?" whimpered the lit-
the bread behind. Always I think someday 1 get
back to Berlin somehow and give key to Allied
the man. weak with cold and long starvation.
Commission. I read sometimes about things in
"Why, brother. they'll reward vou." said Joe
newspapers tourists leave.
heartily. "From what you say you're doing the
"What do you say you let me take care of the
Allies a favor. Nobody's going to hate you for
key from here on out." suggested Joe after think-
it."
00
h
HELSINKT: SOUTH HARBOR AND MARKET PLACE: SUURKIRK KC CHURCH IN BACKGROUND
World Youth. April 194s
Page Thuiteen

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Metal Mirrors of Aranmula
BY K. P. PADMANABHAN TAMPY
Tricandrem. Trarancore, Sonth India
BOUT ninety-two miles to the north of
of indigenous art-crafts, as remarkable as the
Trivandrum is the ancient village of
mummification in ancient Egypt.
Aranmula idyllically situated in the Thi-
The history of the origin of the industry is lost
ruvalla taluk on the left bank of the river Pamba.
in obscurity. Tradition and legend aver that
Famous for its eld temple consecrated to God
nearly four centuries ago, the Chief of the princi-
Parthasarathi, and the spectacular annual snake
pality of Aranmula, a patron of arts and crafts,
boat regattas. Aranmula is the home of the unique
brought down a few families of KANNANS, pro-
bell metal industry carried on by a select band
fessional casters in bronze, to settle down in his
of hereditary master craftsmen who alone know
principality and make the ceremonial utensils,
the secret of casting bell metal mirrors from their
decorative lamps, bells and such other articles re-
special alloy of copper and tin.
quired for daily use in the temple.
ARANMULA KANNADI (Aranmuia Mir-
He endowed the artisans with liberal grants
ror), which has gathered around it a tradition
of lands and special privileges. For some reason
and sanctity and has been hailed as the finest and
the craftsmen proved unsuccessful in their efforts
to turn out the required articles to the satisfac-
rarest example ef bell metal casting, is considered
to be one of the most treasured curios of the
tion of the connoisseur Chief. The indignant
world. Inspired art and impeccable craftsman-
Chief threatened the KANNANS with eviction.
ship combine to render the manufacture of this
The craftsmen, who were at their wits' ends, of-
mirror one of the most wonderful achievements
fered special sacrifices and prayers to the deity
"ONE-ARMED SAHLOR" Cont. from Page 1B.
on the back seat. Joe had found in his suitease
"I just want to get back to my little farm in
sweater and slacks, which, though they were too
Saxony." said the man. "I was a good farmer
big for the little man, were at least warm and dry.
onee before they made me go to war. I want to
The sailor. whose real name was Fritz Meyerhold.
Fo back home."
Colonel Fritz Meyerhold, was truculent when Joe
gave his best sweater to the former orderly, and
"All right, fellow, I'll see what I can do. This
made the officer wear the only other outfit he had
guy is coming round. Look at him glare. It's
with him, oily from tinkering with the car.
lucky we've got him well tied up, because he
doesn't like us one bit. We'll walk him back to
"I wish you to understand." he said haughtily.
the boat landing. Here, help me fasten him into
"that this fellow was my servant. It is for him
my evercoat, so no one will see he's tied. He
to wear the old clothes. I will take the good pair.
won't want to attract attention, but we'll have
You cannot expect me to appear before the Com-
to watch him. He's a sly one, and he'll get away
mission in these filthy rags of yours."
if he can, on the way to Helsinki. I hope Susie's
Joe laughed. "I'd let you wear your wet ones
fixed up so we can leave at once."
and get pneumonia," he said, "except I want to
Susie was ready to go and purred pleasantly
keep you healthy for your trial. The Allies will
down the highway toward Helsinki. the sullen
fix you up, for free. In stripes."
prisoner silent beside Joe, and the little man.
(THE END)
whose name was Hans Fischer, curled up asleep
Photos: Courtesy Suomeu-Matkat. Helsinki. Finland.
Page Fourteen
World Youth. April 1945

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.95)
the temple and decided to
ake a unique crown for the
lage in the shrine. Th.
o m e n f o 1 k of the KAN-
ANS threw into the melting
it all their tin ornaments.
companied by prayers and
itreaties to the God to save
teir husbands from dis
ace. The croe n made on
the combination of co:
id tin. the exact proportion
which was at that time un-
nown to the casters. ts
arvel of aort and craft. Sil-
erlike m color, and britt.
ke glass, it shone with rare
rilliance. and when chee ned
rquired the quality of reflec-
on. The makdom or crown
nown as "Kannnadi Bim-
ont" (Mirror Image) is even
ow preserved in the Aran-
THE ANN AL SNAKE BONT REGATTA AT ARANMULA
iula temple and worshipped.
This startling and fortuitous discovery was
the proper proportion of the differ nt metals and
umediately put to use by the intrepid Chief and
manufactured mirrors. The Chief liberally pa-
se talented craftsmen. The casters worked out
tronized the craftsmen in developing the industry.
A MASTER CRAFTSMAN AT WORK
World Youth. April 1945
Puge Fit

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
glass mirrors. The polishing of the surface of
the mirror is a difficult and delicate job demand-
ing consummate technical skill and patience.
A rich paste of rice bran and laurel or Maroti
(Hydnocarpus Wightiana) oil is used for this
purpose. The polished plate is fixed with a mix-
ture of lac and wax on an artistically engraved
brass frame. Scientific skill and mastery of
craftsmanship of the most advanced type are re-
quired for casting these mirrors. The mirror
elicits both the envy and admiration of modern
metallurgists. The cost of materials required for
casting these mirrors is small compared with the
extent of highly skilled labor which the compli-
cated process of manufacture demands.
Master craftsmen prepare the mould, the alloy
and the wax, and attend to casting and polishing.
The making of a mirror involves the strenuous
efforts of a whole family for four days. The price
is about Rs. 15. Although Aranmula Metal Mir-
rors may not be able to compete with cheap glass
mirrors, they are prized very much by collectors
of curios, especially connoisseurs hailing from
foreign countries. There is every scope for the
SACRED METAL. MIRRORS
manufacture of metal mirrors flourishing as a
cottage craft.
He proclaimed that the metal
mirror was a gift of God and
Photos: Courtesy K. P. Tampy. So. India.
laid down that it should form
one of the eight auspicious
articles used in all Hindu re-
ligious rites. By observing
this rule himself, he gave the
lead, and the prominent peo-
ple in the village followed
suit. The A R A N M U' L A
KANNADI thus became an
article of every-day use in the
Hindu household and was in-
vested with a halo of sane-
tity.
The metal mirror is cast
from an alloy of copper and
tin, the exact proportion of
which is a closely guarded se-
cret of only two surviving
families of KANNANS at
Aranmula. The metal mirror
is usually oval in shape, six
inches by four inches, and
about one-fifth of an inch
thick, and has a bright and
polished surface as that of cut
TROPICAL SOUTH INDIA
Page Sicteen
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
AN INDIAN HOLY MLAN
World Youth. April 1945
Page Serenteen

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
SCIENCE KNOWS NO NATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OUR ATMOSPHERE
AIR...Sea Level and UP
By Raydelle Josephson
What is air?
most of the other countries in the world, represents
the freezing point of water at 0 degrees and the
Air covers the surface of the earth, and pro-
boiling point at 100 degrees.)
vides the atmosphere in which we live. This atmos-
phere is a gas, and as in all gases, the particles, or
Is air everyichere the same?
molecules, of which it is composed, move about
The earth is known to be slightly flattened at
freely and with enormous speed. Collisions with
the poles and to bulge slightly at the equator, and
one another and with the sides of any container in
the layer of air nearest the earth also assumes this
which they happen to be produce a continuous
irregular shape.
pressure in all directions.
The region of the atmosphere starting at the
Air pressure amounts to about one ton on each
surface of the earth, extending up about 5 miles
square foot of area. If a container filled with air
at the latitude of the poles and about 10 miles at
is evacuated, the air outside pushing against it will
the latitude of the equator, is called the tropos-
collapse the container unless the sides are strong
phere. Flying in this region may be disturbed by
enough to resist the pressure.
wind currents and storm, and since this is the re-
Air is actually a mixture of gases, mostly ni-
gion where most flying is done, a pilot learns to
trogen and oxygen. Air over the water picks up
watch constantly for unexpected occurrences.
salt and water, and air over busy cities picks up
The outer region of the atmosphere is called
exhaust gases from engines and gases from fac-
the st ratosphere, and is separated from the tropos-
tory smokestacks. In the one case, fog is produced.
phere by a boundary region called the tropopause.
and in the other, a dusty haze.
Before planes were built which could fly in the
stratosphere, its behavior was studied by observ-
As one climbs a mountain or goes up in an air-
ing shooting stars and the Aurora Borealis, and by
plane, the surrounding air is found to be less com-
measuring the length and color of twilight. Later,
pressed by the weight of the air above. About three
balloons were sent up into the stratosphere, and it
miles away from the surface of the earth, there is
was found that the temperature up to a height
only about half as much air compressed into each
reached by the balloons remained the same for the
cubie foot of space as at sea level. This means that
whole extent of the region, at almost 100 degrees
there is less oxygen present, and breathing be-
below freezing. It was believed then that in the
comes difficult. At this height the temperature
stratosphere the radiation absorbed into the air
drops to about 5 degrees Fahrenheit or—15 de-
exactly counterbalanced the radiation emitted by
grees Centigrade. (The Fahrenheit thermometer.
the sun.
by which temperatures are measured in the United
States, represents the freezing point of water at
How does the sun affect air?
32 degrees and the boiling point at 212 degrees.
Air is not perfectly transparent, and the rays
The Centigrade, or Celsius, thermometer, used in
from the sun are scattered so widely and are so
Page Eighteen
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
greatly absorbed by the molecules of the air, that
100 degrees below freezing, with two exceptions.
only about half of the rays sent out from the sun
At a distance 30 to 40 miles up, and at 70 miles up,
reach the earth.
there are "hot spots" in the atmosphere of the
Of all the colors of light which make up the
earth!
sun's rays, blue is the most greatly absorbed by
We have seen, too, that the presence of cosmic
the air, and the sky therefore appears blue to us
dust may raise the temperature in the strato-
on earth. The light that does get through to the
sphere. What happens when dust particles from
surface of the earth is mostly yellow and red.
the earth are forced into the stratosphere? Science
These colors are known to carry more heat than
history tells us that after the volcanic eruptions
blue, and after they have reached the earth, they
of Krakatoa, near Java, in 1883, of Mont Pelee on
heat the air above it, the regions nearest the earth
Martinique in 1902, and of Katmai in Alaska in
being heated the most. This is why it is warmer
1912, a reddish halo was seen around the sun which
near the surface of the earth than it is several
dimmed the sunlight and was found to consist of
miles nearer the sun.
dust particles.
We see then that dust in the air near the sur-
What else affects air?
face of the earth can greatly reduce the light and
Although it was believed for many years that
heat which the earth may obtain from the sun,
temperature through-out the stratosphere was
not by serving as a blanket, but by rising into the
constant, on February 2, 1947, it was officially an-
stratosphere itself.
nounced in the United States that experiments
making use of rockets and radio-equipped balloons
had revealed the existence of two isolated regions
of high temperature in the stratosphere.
In a region between 30 and 40 miles away from
SUN
the surface of the earth, the temperature had been
found to be 170 degrees Fahrenheit, of 77 degrees
Centigrade. In a region about 70 miles away from
93,000.000 Mi
the surface of the earth, the air was found to have
suddenly become so hot that it actually boils. It
is even more surprising to learn that between the
two regions the temperature was found to drop be-
low zero on both scales.
And how does this discovery fit into the scheme
explained above? First of all, it was discovered
that over the region 30 to 40 miles away from the
COSMIC
surface of the earth, where the temperature first
70Mi.
DUST
rises suddenly, that there is a layer of almost pure
ozone, which is a form of oxygen capable of ab-
sorbing and holding more heat from the sun than
the air below it.
Similarly, at the region about 70 miles away
from the surface of the earth, where the temper-
40 Mi.
ature again rises suddenly, there is a second layer
OZONE
capable of holding more heat than the air below.
30 Mi.
This layer is made up of partieles, affected by rays
from outer space among the stars, many times dis-
STRATOSPHERE
tant from our sun, and known as cosmic dust. Sei-
entists know very little as yet about the nature of
10 Mi.
these particles.
TROPOPAUSE
5 Mi.
We have seen that, starting at the surface of
TROPOSPHERE
the earth and proceeding upward, the temperature
SEA
LEVEL
of the air gets closer and closer to freezing, and
EARTH
finally, in the stratosphere, settles down to around
World Youth, April 1948
Page Niueteen

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
World Youth's Pen Friends Write in From Many Countries
belmont Day School
From Saon Fraoncisco
Belmont, Massachusetts.
Through World Youth I have a pen pal in
World Youth is an unusual contribution to
France. Her family lost a lot in the war and I
good understanding of all parts of the world for
would like to send her a present, because we have
boys and girls. We are filing the back copies in
so much more than they have now because of the
the school library, because the stories have more
war. I don't know how to send it though, and I
than passing interest.
don't know exactly what to send. Can you tell me
Rosamond Coolidge.
what to do so my pen pal and her family would be
sure to get it?
Rosemead, California.
Thank you a lot.
Betty Lampson
I read and enjoy World Youth very much. I
ED. NOTE: This is a fine idea, Betty, and yes, we
am fifteen years old and would like to have a pen
pal. I would prefer to correspond with someone
do know how you can send your present if you can
in Africa or South America.
raise $10.00, which is the cost of any one of a num-
ber of packages containing things that people
Now I shall try to deseribe myself. As I said
abroad need. These packages are sent by CARE,
before I am fifteen years old. I am a Negro, 5
and delivcry is guaranteed or your money back. It
feet 4 inches in height, and I weigh 120 pounds. I
is true that packages sent by individuals are some-
have dark hair and dark eyes. I am interested
times lost on the way, but CARE has everything
in books, sewing and people.
streamlined and is absolutely efficient.
My address is 2008 Walnut Grove. Rosemead.
The packages are standard and are airfreight-
California. I hope some of World Youth readers
ad to the CARE representative in the country des-
will write to me.
ignated, who takes care of delivery. So there is no
Thank you very much. Yours truly,
delay. Some of the packages contain woollen or
Mary Jones.
cotton cloth with thread etc. so that people can
make themselres the dresses or suits they need.
Fresno, California.
Some packages contain needed kinds of food.
My story about the little burro that went to
Since your present would be far France, why
school is a true story. I thought World Youth
not send the Standard Food Package which con-
readers might enjoy it as my pupils do. We read
tains all sorts of good things to eat? Or you could
and enjoy World Youth in our Home Instruction
scnd the Knitting Wool package so your friends
Class.
could kuit themselves warm sweaters. Just send
Viola P. Day.
$10.00, and the name of the package you want sent.
to CARE either in New York (50 Broad Street)
CARE
or to the CARE office in San Francisco (444 Mar-
CARE is non-profit. U. S. Goveruoment appror-
ket Street, Room 209). I know ten dollars seems
ed, international, inter-racial and inter-religious.
a lot of money, but the package will be tremen-
That is why World Youth can recommend it.
dously appreciated.
Page Twenty
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
The Little Burro That Went To School
Looking at Mike you'd think he was just like
haul him up to our camp," he said.
any other burro. He might have been a mite
"Sure", I agreed. It looked like easy money
shorter than some of his relatives, but he had
to me. We rolled the dead bear to the creek and
their same short-haired grey coloring, with a big
then I went back for Mike. Seems like Mike hadn't
white patch on his nose. He was the friendliest
scented bear until then. One whiff—and he was
animal I've ever seen—a good worker and plenty
off like a shot. I've never seen five dollars go up
smart. But Mike was different—guess it was
in dust so fast before nor since. There went all
because he'd gone to school.
my equipment, too, so I left the man to figure out
his own problem while I hunted Mike. And the
Mike must have been about ten years old when
next time over that trail I led Mike on a halter.
we bought him and in lots of ways he was brighter
fearing he'd remember bear and run away!
than humans I know, and he had a remarkable
memory. He never forgot people nor places.
Mike's favorite literature was the Montgom-
ery Ward catalogue. If Bill happened to leave
We took him back into the woods with us to
it around, Mike would tear out the pages leaf by
hunt gold—some eighteen miles from any neigh-
leaf, chewing or tossing them aside, as the arti-
bor. He stayed around camp without a hitch,
cles listed appealed to him!
a self-supporting animal if there ever was one.
I'd have to grin to see him ferret into thick man-
All summer long Mike served us faithfully.
zanita wood for choice bits of grass that cattle
Then one day in early September, he disappeared.
wouldn't bother to get. He sure looked funny,
Bill and I hunted everywhere in vain. Finally
just his little backside showing and that tail
we walked some eighteen miles into the nearest
swishing contentedly to and fro.
little jerkwater town and there we found Mike—
at school. The kids said he was always there the
But pancakes and bread were his choice for
first dav of school, though how he knows it's
food. Every morning he'd come close to watch
school time no one knows. Anyway he liked to
me cook flapjacks, his eyes begging for a share.
hang around the kids, trading rides for food.
And if my partner got to gesturing and talking
The only way we managed to keep Mike in
when he had pancakes on his tin plate. Mike would
snitch those cakes so quietly that Bill wouldn't
camp all winter was to tie him, for the moment
even miss them 'til his fork hit tin instead of cake.
he got loose he'd head for the school. Then sud-
denly, in May, he seemed to know school was out
All summer long Mike followed me wherever
and he'd never wander from our campsite. I had
l'd go, carrying my pack and tools on his back. I
that burro five years and he never missed going
never had to lead him until one day when he seent-
off to school once.
ed a bear. Now burros can live in a country
Mike's "larnin'" surely took. He could find
where we'd kill a rattler a day: where all kinds
of wild animals could be seen, but bear is one ani-
anv trail he'd ever been over. We tested him on
mal that seares them silly. This is how I found
trails that hadn't been used for years, where we
out:
thought all signs had been washed away or lost
in the thickets. Maybe an Indian could equal him
I was walking on an old Indian trail one day
lut I doubt it. Mike could find the trail every
when a voice hailed me. I ordered Mike to ston
time.
while I went to see what he wanted. There was
I had to leave, so old Bill kept Mike that last
a man, tugging at the biggest bear I'd ever seen
summer. Then Bill got sick, and left Mike on the
and he as sweating and cussing and getting no-
where fast.
loose, and I've never seen Mike since. Of this I'm
sure, though, when the first day of schoo! rolls
"You'd better skin that bear and cut it up be-
around, Mike, if he's able, will be at the door with
fore you try to haul him out of here," I advised.
the kids, ready to start the new term. This is a
"Nothing doin'. But I'll give you five dollars
true story.
and some good meat if you'll have your burro help
— V. P. MAY.
World Youth. April 1948
Page Twenty-one

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
HE
ATTLE
SNAKE
POD
hichen
A Story of the Ancient Maya
by
MAUDE MEAGHER
SYNOPSIS
CHAPTER EIGHT—UXMAL
THEODORA ORTEGA. an Americaon girl whose grand-
T SEEMED to Chac that morning as if
mother was a Maga Iudian. cisits Yucatan with her
juther who has a bubble-gum fuctory in New York.
dawn came racing up the sky. Teo asked
Yucatan is the main souree of chicle, the sap of the
sapodilla tree, and the basic material of chewing gum.
no questions, but hurried along beside him.
Theodora feels an urgent desire to see the Well of Saeri-
She did pause for a second or two as they passed
fice at Chichen Itza. She goes there alone, becomes dizzy.
the big ball court.
and loses couscionsucss, and is abont to fall in when a
Maga boy appears out of the forest behind her. When
"I don't suppose we'll ever see it again," she
Theodora reeorers conscionsuess she has gone back in
said. "I'll just have one more quick look at where
time nearly 500 gears and has become
TEOSINTE. a girl of old Chichen Itza, sentenced to be
I saw you first, Chac."
thrown into the Well oi Sacritice to appease the rattle-
Chac took advantage of the pause to look back
suake god. She resolres on tlight and before daen nest
dau leares her insurious hame withont taking leare oi
over the open square dotted with platforms and
AILKA. the slare who has been a foster mother to her
monuments. The grisly platform of the skulls now
since Teo's oun parents died. Kilka lies helpless
stood out clear in the morning light, and the tumult
with a broken hip. and her chances oi surriral are
better if she kuors nothing of Teo's actions—Teo's
in the city was increasing. A light breeze fluttered
wicked guardian
the great feather banners which gave the city a
THE NACOM. or sacriticial priest of the Temple of
the Rattle-suake God, has atfised the temple seal to
festive air, and crowds were beginning to gather.
Tro's hone us a sign that it has been coutiseated
"I wish I knew what those old foxes in the tem-
by the rattle-suake god. While wandering ainlessl
aronnd the city of old Chichen Itza Teo mects again
ple yonder were up to now," he muttered to him-
CHAC XIB CHAC. cmbittered young descendent of
self. "They can't have discovered Teo's escape—
the aucient ruling house oi Chichen Itza. who has
or can they?"
become a famons athlete. Tro tirst mct him aiter
a game ot tlachli. o, hup ball. when he had made
The idea turned him cold, and he grasped Teo's
the winning stroke tos his team. They hace fallen
in lore. but white wallking together on the platiorm
arm roughly.
of the old Obscrratorg. Teo is scized and carried
"Come along, my girl," he said. "There's no
ofi by priests ot the rattle-snake god, aud Chac.
who tries to defend her. is thrown ciolently agaiust
time for dreaming."
a stone wall and lies scnuscless. Teo is carricl arag
The two set off in haste to reach the causeway.
by the prests.
Chae munages to resene Teo by means of a long tongh
They had scarcely reached it when they heard
cine let docu into the Well oi Sacrifice. He is greatln
the clip-clip of running stilts behind them, and the
helped in the resene by an old woman, a Yas Cocay Mut
dancer on stilts, who distracts the atteution of speetators
old woman dancer whom Chac had talked with at
who woght otherwise hare seen and reported him.
the Sacred Well caught up with them.
Aiter a night in a tareru, where soldiers befriend them.
Chac whirled on her suspiciously, on guard for
thet attempt to escape to l sual. Teo is disgutised as a bog.
Page Tuenty-tro
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
treachery, but the beam-
the woman surprised. "Where have you been?"
ing wrinkled face that
"Hiding," said Chac succinctly.
peered down from the
"Of course." The woman nodded. "Well, yes-
tall stilts disarmed him.
terday afternoon when I got back from the Sacred
"What now, old moth-
Well, with the crowd snapping at my heels, long-
er?" he cried, cordially.
ing for me to stumble on my stilts and crack my
"What now for you.
ancient skull . . . . . ." she twinkled gaily at them
my son, —and yours!"
with her wise, aged eyes, and Chac laughed aloud
She looked at the bewil-
as he remembered the scene which the day before,
dered Teo and a delight-
in his anxiety, he had not taken time to appreciate,
ed smile spread over her
"I noticed long lines of handsome litters moving
face.
down a street toward a certain great house which
"Salute her, Teosinte,
shall be nameless. The dignitaries and aristocrats
with your heart." said
inside the litters were buzzing with indignation,
Chac solemnly. "She is
and I understood well enough why.
your good friend."
"Those Itzas who have remained in the city of
Teo, who now recog-
their forefathers, and endured the insults and op-
nized the woman from
pressions of the invaders have at last been pushed
Chac's description of her
too far. One of their number, an orphan, whose
at the well, expressed her
YAX COCAY MUT DANCER
parents had been highly respected (I will not name
thanks so simply and
Redraen
her) . . . ." She smiled down at Teo. "One of their
warmly, that the wom-
from Maga carcing
number had been sacrificed for rain. This was ac-
an's eyes filled with tears
cording to custom, not to old custom, but at least
She stopped her restless
pacing on her stilts and lean-
ed against a tall statue of Xa-
man Ek, Guide of Merchants,
God of the North Star, which
stood beside the causeway.
"Our God, Itzamma, may
his name be blessed, has laid
a treasure in your hands," she
told Chac. "Guard her and
keep her safe. She's known al-
ready too much terror for one
young life to hold."
Teo laughed up at her con-
fidently and slipped her arm
through Chac's.
"I'll be all right as long as
he is with me," she said.
"And that will be your life
long, my Teosinte." said Chac
solemnly, and the woman, as
if she had been an officiating
priest, raised her two claw-
like hands and blessed them.
"And now, old mother."
said Chac briskly. "tell me
what I need to know. What's
happening in the city?"
RRS
"You don't know?" asked
World Youth. April 1948
Page Twenty-three

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
of bloody death on the sacri-
ficial stone. But when he had
them cowed he changed his
tone, and though the Nacom
still brandished his great knife
behind him, the Lord Serpent
told the people that the rain
god had honored them by re-
ceiving to himself the maiden
they had given him as bride,
and would surely send them
rain to keep their remaining
crops from withering in the
drought. Then he told them
sternly again to be off to their
homes till morning, when a
great festival would be held
LASKONJAS-EDIFORIENTE
RUINASUXMAL MERIDA YUC
at the temple's expense to
cheer them."
"At my expense," mur-
A BUILDING IN THE NUNNEKY QUADRANGLE OF UXMAL AS IT LOOKS TODAY
mured Teo. "You know, don't
the custom of two hundred years, as brought into
you, that the Nacom has seized my fortune."
this unfortunate city by its conquerors, those who
"Yes, I know," returned the woman, "and so
worship Kukulcan.
does everyone in the city. But what can they do?
"But the law says that the victim so sacrificed
You are presumed dead, and the temple has its
shall have a sporting chance for life. So long as she
soldiers to see that any grumblers follow you in
was duly given her sporting chance, the people
death if they make themselves known. The priests
could quiet their consciences and say that whether
are worried, but the Nacom made his point at last.
she lived or died was according to the god's will.
after a night-long argument up there." She jerked
"The Nacom's very obvious unwillingness to
her thumb backward over her shoulder toward the
give her even that one chance for life by dropping
Temple of Kukulcan.
the rope to her at noon roused indignation, for the
"How do you know what went on there during
Maya have always been a people with a strong
the night?" asked Chac curiously.
sense of justice. I saw the feathered litters of the
“Who minds an old woman, once a priestess,
rich come out of that house, after their conference
now a little cracked in the head," she grinned down
there, and travel in a long line up the steps of the
a! them mischievously, "if she hovers listening at
Temple of Kukulcan to the
top.
"Who knows what was said
there, what arguments, what
threats. I saw them come out
hastily, and after them the
Lord Serpent himself, in all
his high regalia of feathered
cloak and head dress, backed
by the Nacom bearing in up-
lifted hands the obsidian knife
of sacrifice, to speak to the
rioting people at the temple's
base.
"He told them to be in
their houses by sunset on pain
WEST WING OF NUNNERY QUADRANGLE
Page Twenty-four
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
They did better than that,
however. A roadside vendor
had set up shop to sell bean
paste and fruit to passers-by.
Refreshed, they went rapidly
toward Uxmal.
Teo exclaimed at the beau-
ty of this city as they came in
to it at last. They entered
from the north into an open
EAST WING NUNNERY TRIANGLE
space paved with a lime ce-
ment that shone like silver un-
the door. They send her away with curses, she
der their weary feet. The massive towering
cackles stupidly and disappears only to creep in
monuments and buildings arranged in groups
elsewhere."
shone like silver too, their carved facades being
"You're marvellous," said Chac with deep con-
finished with a fine white stucco picked out with
restrained color. The barbaric splendor and crude
viction. "I love you with my soul. If I had not an
colors of Chichen Itza were not seen here. Here
urgent responsibility on my mind, I would stay
were no serpent columns, no horrifying masks;
here and work with you."
the faces on the stone columns had a sad and sol-
"I love you, too," said Teo, in a different tone.
emn dignity.
for Chac's, though sincere, had laughter in it.
The woman smiled and stroked her hair.
"Uxmal is pure Maya," said Chac looking about
him as he felt at home. "The carving is not as good
"Get ye gone, my children. You are the true
as that in the cities of the Old Empire farther
blood of the Itzas. This city is doomed and its doom
south, nothing here in the North is, but it is mag-
lies not far off along the road of destiny. Better
nificent, as you see, and beautiful."
things are in store for you. Get ye gone."
They were hurrying down the east side of a
She turned expertly on her stilts, and without
another word went back into the city.
great quadrangle toward an immensely tall tem-
ple. later to be called by archaelogists "The House
"She's right," said Chac. "We must lose no
of the Magician."
more time."
The rising sun was at their backs as they walk-
"That is the temple and residence of the High
ed swiftly down the causeway.
hand in hand. It threw their
shadows long before them, but
these shortened steadily as
they walked.
"I rather wish we had
thought to bring some corn
cakes with us, don't you?" re-
marked Teo as their shadows
clung about their feet on the
hot stone pavement at noon.
"We should come to a vil-
lage soon, I imagine." return-
ed Chac, "though judging
from the people who have
passed us on their way to the
city, any village we find will
be deserted. However, there'll
be food, if only a few grains
of corn to chew."
RUINS OF THE GOVERNOR'S PALACE AT UxMAL
World Youth, April 1948
Page Twenty-five

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
Priest of Uxmal. He is great-uncle of the present
the Feathered Serpent of the Toltecs. Quetzalcoatl
ruler of Uxmal, whose home is the Governor's Pal-
is a good god, and forbids human sacrifice, like our
ace, which you can see down there to the south.
Itzamma. Perhaps he is Itzamma under another
He is a friend of my father's, but first I want to
name, since there is but one good God. In that case
take you to my respected cousin, on my mother's
Kukulcan, and the Aztec Huitzilopochtli, and the
side, the Mother Superior of the Nunnery."
Toltec Tezcatlipoca, are all names for the same
Teo, while she listened, had been all eyes, both
devil as our Maya Hunhau, Lord of Death and the
for the beautiful and imposing buildings that sur-
Underworld.
rounded them, and for the people of Uxmal who
"The Toltec followers of bloodthirsty Tezcatli-
passed. They wore the same richly feathered
poca drove out Quetzalcoatl, and although the mer-
cloaks and headdresses, the same brilliant em-
cenary soldiers from the Toltec country brought
broideries on their garments, but their faces were
the Feathered Serpent with them, he was not Quet-
different. They had not the ostentatious bravado
zalcoatl. The good Feathered Serpent became as
of those attached to the temple of Kukulcan at
their bloody hands and evil minds depicted him, a
Chichen Itza, nor the cowed look of the common
great snake with poison fangs and rattles, not
people there.
feathers, on his tail."
"Why is it this city feels so peaceful, so se-
"I know," nodded Teo. "One sees him carved
cure?" she asked.
that way all over Chichen Itza."
"It is pure Maya, in its feeling at least, as I
"And they called him Kukulcan," said Chac.
told you, although the Xius, who founded it, are
"And so for just on 260 years they have terrorized
Maya-Mexican in origin," explained Chac, guiding
the city in his name, using Maya builders and stone
her around the corner of the Nunnery Quadrangle
masons to build the city great and terrible, and
toward the great arched gate on its south side.
making the temple run with blood."
"The present Lord of Uxmal, Ah Xupan Xiu, is a
"That's why you were so bitter when you walk-
hostage, like my father, in Mayapan, a prisoner
ed about the city, isn't it, Chac?" asked Teo. "You
of the Cocom, and is obliged to rule this city by
are different now."
deputies. He leads the faction which I represent."
"Uxmal escaped the worst of the fighting," con-
added Chac, dropping his voice lest he be overheard
tinued Chac, unaware of her interruption. "The
even here in Uxmal. "My own father is too old to
Xius have always been peaceful, more inclined to
lead."
compromise than fight. But even they have by now
"To lead?" asked Teo, turning to look at him,
had more than they can endure of the tyrannies of
questioningly.
the Cocom of Mayapan. Hunac Ceel built a great
"Sit here a moment by the gate," returned
wall around his city of Mayapan, and there he has
Chac, gesturing toward a bench of carved stone.
kept most of the Xiu and Itza nobles hostages for
"You should know more of my affairs, for the High
two and a half centuries. They administer their
Priest knows and the Great Nun. You know that
towns and cities through deputies, always watch-
Chichen Itza was founded by my forefathers, the
ed by the mercenaries of Kukulcan. I escaped, to
Itzas. Uxmal was founded by the Xius, and Maya-
spy out conditions in the other cities.
pan by the Cocoms. These are the three great rul-
"The situation has become intolerable, and I
ing families of the New Maya Empire here in the
trust you, Teo, with this knowledge which is more
north of Yucatan, or were until the black traitor.
than my life to me: next year I and the Tutul Xiu,
Ah Nacxit Kukulcan, whose given name was Hu-
the Present Lord of Uxmal, now prisoner at Maya-
nac Ceel, brought mercenary soldiers from Central
pan, will lead the other princely hostages, and will
Mexico to send against my city, Chichen Itza. This
destroy Mayapan so that not one stone lies on
happened two hundred and fifty nine years ago—
another. We will execute the family of Hunac Ceel
next year will make the full tzolkin of years. Next
down to its least descendent, and purge the land of
year is therefore the appointed time for rebellion.
the idolatrous invaders and their allies."
"Hunac Ceel paid his mercenaries off by giving
Teo shuddered and was silent, knowing it was
them the city of Chichen Itza to do with as they
useless for her to protest; two and a half centuries
pleased, and he flattered them by taking the name
of oppression spoke too strongly in Chac's proud
of their rattlesnake god into his title. At that time
mind for him to hear anything she might say in
they worshipped a debased form of Quetzalcoatl.
the matter.
Page Twenty-six
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
"I'm tired," she said. "Couldn't we go in to the
Nunnery?"
TERRACE OF THE
MONUMENTS
Chac leaped at once to his feet.
"I shouldn't have troubled you with such stern
political matters now," he said contritely.
HH
主
HOUSE OF THE
"You must do what you think is right," return-
GROUP OF THE
COLUMNS
ed Teo in a forlorn voice, for these plans of Chac's
O
depressed her more deeply even than the expecta-
CEMETERY GROUP
亚
tion of her own death in the Well of Sacrifice had
done.
BALL COURT
GOVERNMENT
They went in silenee across the great court of
HEEN
HOUSE OF THE TURTLES
STATION
the Nunnery Quadrangle where men and women
devoted to the service of Itzamma came and went
HOUSE
OF THE
in richly embroidered garments. Teo spared searce-
PIGEONS
PALACE
ly a glance at the exquisitely carved facades of the
GOVERNORS
OF THE
four buildings which enclosed the court, although
they are generally conceded to be among the most
SOUTH
TEMPLE
beautiful structures ever built in the Americas.
GREAT PYRAMID
The fine lime stucco laid as a smooth finish over
all the carved stone work, covered the joins in the
SOUTH GROUP
OUSE OF THE
vast mosaic and glimmered like the purest silver
OLD WOMAN
in the light.
"Here is the center of what remains of Maya
CHART OF UxMAL
scholarship," said Chac. "Chichen Itza is spoiled
Chac smiled broadly as he drew Teo forward.
by the followers of Kukulcan ; only a few impotent
"This youth, revered cousin, is my bride. Her
old scholar-priests still cling to their studies in the
name is Teosinte, and not many hours ago she lay
Observatory there. Mayapan is ruled by the tyrant
beneath the waters of the Well of Sacrifice in
Cocom and his mercenaries. But here in Uxmal
(Chichen Itza."
there is still peace and here the old Maya wisdom
is still cherished, by the priests and nuns who work
Amazement shone in the dark eyes of the
in those hundreds of little rooms that open on this
priestess as she looked at Teo.
court. The lady who administers this great and
"And you saved her, Chac?" she asked. "Or
busy place is my cousin, Chel Ixchel Xiu, for she
did she survive to prophesy?"
took the name of the patron goddess of weaving
Chac told the story in a few words and when
as her name in our Maya religion.
he had finished the priestess took Teo warmly in
"The head of the temple," Chac indicated the
her arms.
towering building beyond the Quadrangle, "is my
"You have courage, my child, and steadfast-
father's friend, the High Priest Xiu Xib Xiu. We
ness, and my cousin here is blessed in having won
will go to him also for counsel, and his blessing."
your love," she said. "Now quickly you must have
The two had by now crossed the square and en-
a refreshing bath, and proper clothes, and food
tered one of the doors in the building opposite the
and rest."
gate. Here a slave girl, recognizing Chae, took them
She struck a thin disk of polished jade that
at once to a great room comfortably furnished.
hung by a cord near her, and a slave girl appeared
with frescoes in subdued colors painted on the
in answer to the musical note.
white walls.
"Go, child, and bathe and dress and when you
A lady, who had been writing at a desk of cary-
have rested a little, come back to sup with me. And
and polished ebony wood, rose to meet them. She
you, Chac," she turned to the boy, "you know your
was strangely beautiful in her heavy, sumptuous
old room on the east side of the court. A slave will
brocade robes, and she smiled warmly at Chae who
attend you there with garments and a bath. Do
dropped on one knee to kiss her hand.
you come back here, too, for supper with me."
"I was expecting you, my cousin." she said.
A little later Teo sat on a low mahogany stool.
"But who is this youth with you?"
warm and comfortable in a robe of cotton thickly
World Youth. April 1948
Page Twenty-seven

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
inwoven with rabbit's hair and richly embroider-
I must give a bride gift to the lovely child you have
ed. Under it she wore undergarments of fine cot-
brought with you."
ton, rich with lace embroidered at the edges with
The priestess moved across the room and took
white and gold thread. She sipped her chocolatl
from a finely woven basket there a little image of
from a cup of crimson lacquer and listened to the
the Corn God carved in purest jade.
animated talk of the priestess, splendid in robes
"Now this is very old, and very holy," she said,
of blue and yellow brocade. Chac was handsome
placing it in Teo's hand.
in scarlet.
"And very precious, too," added Chac, his ar-
Chac and the priestess were talking politics,
tist soul delighted at its beauty.
and Teo's mind wandered to the frescoes on the
The little figure hung on a chain of delicately
walls, which were done in lime green and rose, un-
carved rings of jade, and while Teo stammered her
til she heard the great nun speak decisively.
thanks shyly, Chac took it from her hand and hung
"You cannot, in all conscience, expose your
it soberly about her neck. "This shall be an ever-
bride to such dangers, Chac," she said. "It was all
lasting symbol of our love," he said, "and we will
very well when you were unattached, and I was
keep it always for our children's children's child-
glad to see you go to Chichen Itza to learn for
ren."
yourself conditions there. But I am a practical wo-
"Be wise then, as you are courageous," the
man, and I tell you that your situation is changed
priestess told them bluntly, "and remember, in
now you have found yourself a bride."
your plans for rebellion against tyranny, that the
"She is courageous and strong," said Chac.
Itzas of the future depend on your wisdom, as well
putting out his hand to clasp one of Teo's. She put
as on your courage."
down her cup and smiled at him. "Look at her face,
She kissed the two lightly on their foreheads,
my cousin. You see she does not fear whatever may
raised a hand to bless them and went from the
come to us."
room.
"I see her face." said the High Priestess, "and
"She's marvellous." breathed Teo, looking af-
it is lovely indeed, and wise for one so young. All
ter her.
the more reason, I tell you, that you keep her safe.
"Yes, she is," admitted Chac ruefully, "but she
You are the only son of your father. You have the
doesn't want me to fight."
future of your family to think of, not yourself a-
"Neither do I." murmured Teo, "but I'll stand
lone. The holy men of Itza have preserved the Ma-
with you if you must."
ya culture faithfully for many generations. You
must not let your family die out in these sad times
"I know you will," said Chac, "and as I see it
and the worse times that are to come."
now, I must. But do you realize, Teo, that we are
"We will not die." said Chac confidently. "No.
alone and safe for the first time together? This is
our wedding supper. Let's enjoy it before we go to
my cousin, I must lead the Itzas in the rebellion
meet the High Priest and ask his counsel. Being
that is to take place next year, the time appointed."
a man, I'm sure he'll tell me I should fight."
The High Priestess considered for a long mo-
ment in silence. Finally she said," I see I cannot
But the High Priest did not. He sat, old and
persuade you, and I must go in a few moments to
beautiful in his azure robes of office, waiting for
preside at a Sharing of Sin ceremony. A man has
them when they had climbed the steep steps of his
died, and his relatives are waiting to take his sins
temple to the little stone room in which he lived.
upon themselves so that his time of penance may
"All things move in their appointed way, my
be shortened in the lower world. Go both of you
son." he said when Chac had finished his vehe-
and ask counsel of my wise colleague, the High
ment defense of his plan. "All my long life I have
Priest of the temple. Listen well to his words, for
studied Time, bearing in mind the knowledge
he is old and very wise."
handed down to me from Maya priests who for two
"We go, revered cousin, and thank you," said
thousand years and more have studied chiefly
Chac, rising, but the priestess gestured for him
Time and its mysteries.
to seat himself again as she rose. "Finish your sup-
"Because of our deep studies we can tell the
per, children," she said, practically, gesturing to-
probable course of future events, and there are
ward the lacquered plates of food. "I must remain
among us chilaones, specially gifted in prophesy.
fasting until after the ceremony. But before I go.
Time has its own laws and its path circles back to
Page Twenty-cight
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 125 === (confidence 1.00)
the place of its starting, over and over as the cen-
"What of the Itzas?"
turies move. You know that the fifth return of the
"The future of the Itzas depends on you, my
fateful Uudz Katun is upon us. Because of our sins
son. Go with your bride and prepare for them a
it circles lower each time it returns upon itself.
place of refuge. Go south as our forebears, holy
Perhaps, in the far future, when expiation has
men, went south 800 years ago from Chichen Itza
been made, it will begin once more the upward
to Chakanputan. But go you southward yet to the
climb as it must have done before the time of our
valley below the highest mountains. There you
first recorded cycle, the brilliant period of our cul-
will find Lake Peten and the ruined cities where
ture in the Old Empire.
our forebears first began to build a golden age two
thousand years ago, for this I know from our old
"I need not recite these cycles to you ; you know
chronicles.
them. But I must tell you that the cycle that is
"Then was no war, but peace among the Maya.
about to commence is the worst of all. The rebel-
The great mountains rise, the snow white on their
lion from which you hope so much will bring not
summits, great trees a hundred times higher than
liberty, but destruction and civil war. I am soon
a man give shade. There are streams of water and
to die, but even I will see our cities abandoned and
in a grassy plain a lake, blue as the sky, with is-
the land laid waste."
lands green as jade. There on those islands you
"But who will do this? Surely we can destroy
must build once more a golden life for the Itzas,
the Cocom and his mercenaries," protested Chac.
beloved of the good god Itzamma."
"Even so. Itza will join Xiu to fight the Cocoms,
Chac felt Teo's two hands close around his arm,
and will indeed destroy the most of them. Then
urging him.
Itza will fight Xiu, until, in famine and loss the
"But will the Itzas be forever safe there?"
Maya return to a near savagery."
"No. The strange men riding beasts will come
"But this is madness," cried Chac.
there too, at last. Good priests will come with
"And worse will follow," went on the old priest
them, but the men of gold and murder will have
inexorably. "Your grandchildren will see the com-
their way despite them, and your city will be des-
ing of bearded men on the sea, in boats like white-
troyed. But you, my children, will not see this.
winged birds of prey. They will be armed with
Your children's children's children will live on in
thunder and lightning, and wear skins of metal
peace until at last the strangers come with metal
and ride tall four-footed monsters fleet as the
tubes and death."
wind.
Chac sat with his head in his hands, deep in
"Many will say it is Kukulcan. Those of Ten-
disappointment and despair. Teo sat quietly a-
ochtitlan will say it is Quetzalcoatl returned from
gainst him, waiting. She had not Chac's fierce
exile, and fear of him will turn their bones to wa-
desire for vengeance; life to her now was warm
ter, and Tenochtitlan, that mighty city, will be de-
and promising; she did not want to lose it. Yet she
livered over to the strangers and they will destroy
understood how Chac must feel since all his young
it and build a greater city in its place.
life he had brooded on the wrongs done his people
"But we who have seen them in visions know
by the traitor Hunac Ceel and by the strangers
these bearded men are not men of Quetzalcoatl,
Hunac Ceel had hired to subdue them. Now, since
that kind god, for these men will sacrifice our peo-
he could not doubt the dire foreknowledge of the
ple in their thousands, not on altars, but on battle-
High Priest of Itzamma, he must accept defeat
fields. Their god is gold, and though they will give
even before it came, and turn in a new direction
lip service to a Kind God, and His Mother, their
for a more creative effort.
cruelties and greed will rule them."
"Next year the fourth return of the Uudz Ka-
"For gold they must go to the Aztecs of Ten-
tun begins, Reverend Father," he began, "and
ochtitlan," said Chac. "There is no gold in Yuca-
surely that is the time fated for the destruction of
tan."
the tyrant?"
"But they will come to Yucatan for conquest.
"It is the time," agreed the High Priest, "and
And twice they will be driven out. The Maya will
his destruction and that of the prison city, Maya-
resist far longer than the Aztecs, though not the
pan, will come to put an end to his misdeeds, dur-
Xius. The Xius will accept the God of the bearded
ing the fateful Katun 8 Ahau that is about to be-
men and live in peace with them."
gin. But you, my son, must not lead the rebellion.
World Youth, April 1948
Page Twenty-nine

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
The rebellion will be led by Ah Xupan Xiu, the
"The great grandson of Ah Xupan Xiu, whose
chief of the Xius at Mayapan. The Cocom will be
name will be Napot Xiu, will make a pilgrimage
through the country of the Nachi Cocom, great
destroyed and all his family save only one son, now
grandson of the present Cocom. He will go to offer
absent at Ulua. This son will return to build again,
sacrifice of living maidens at the Well of Sacrifice
and that will be the cause of the final subjugation
at Chichen Itza, but he will first ask safe conduct
of the Maya to the bearded stranger.
from Nachi Cocom. This will be given him, and his
"Listen, and I will tell you, for my eyes, so soon
safety sworn to by the Cocoms. But once they have
to die in this body, can see far down the future.
him in their power, they will fall upon him and
The bearded strangers will be driven from our
slay him and all his company in revenge for the
land, not once, but twice, and there will come a
revenge his great-grandfather took nearly a hun-
time when not one remains, though the land will
dred years before, at Mayapan. And a worse civil
have been laid waste by the pestilence and slaugh-
war will follow. Revenge breeds revenge, my son,
ter they have brought.
and civil war breeds weakness.
THE FATEFUL UUDZ KATUN
Just 136 days before the fifth return of Katun
8 Ahan (1697-1461) the Spanish conquest of the
The l'udz Katun, "the doubling or folding over
Maya people was completed, with the destruction
oj the katuns", comes every 260 tuns, or 2561,
of the Itza city of Tagasal. The Itzas had held out
years of onr chronology, on the Katun 8 Ahau. A
longer than any other group of Maya, but with the
katuon lasts trenty years.
fateful uudz katun upon them, they gave in.
A very interesting chronology of the Maga cy-
The sixth return of Katun 8 Ahau. according
cles is given by Dr. Morley in his book, "The An-
to Maya chronology, will begin in 1953.
cient Maya", Stanford Unirersity Press, 1946.
Reviewing thirteen centuries of Maya history, he
THE XIU FAMILY
shows "a clearly recuorring pattern". and its key
The Maya kept family records over long peri-
is in the successire returns of the fatcful Katun
ods of time. One such record, contained in an
8 Ahau—the special trenty-year period when des-
ancient leather portfolio, is preserved in the Pea-
tiny wrought her greatest changes.
body Musenom at Harvard University in Cam-
The first period of Maya cultural brilliance
bridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A. It is the family rec-
was in the Old Empire cities of what is now
ord of th: Xius, beginning with the founder and
Northern Guatemala. The dates were 317 to 987
aorernor of the city of Uxmal.
A. D.
This record carries the story of the Xius down
The first return of the Katun 8 Ahan was in
to the time of Mexican independence in 1821, and
672-692 when Chichen Itza is said to hare been
from living members of the family it has been
abandoned for the first time.
possible to continue their history to the present
The second return of the Katuon 8 Ahau fell on
da!!.
928-948 whe; the Itza abandoned Chakaonputun
The present head of the family, Don Nemesio
(the city they had built after learing Chichen
Xiu, lives at Ticul in Northern Yucatan, and be-
Itza), and returned to Chichen Itza.
longs to the thirty-eighth generation beginning
The third return of Katuon 8 Ahan (1185-
rith Hun l'itzil Chac, founder of Uxmal. Don
1204) brought the plot of Huonac Ceel, the Cocom
Nemesio has a son, Dionisio, and grandchildren
ruler of Mayapan, which caused the fall of Chich-
Genovera and Gerardo, the latter born in 1943.
en Itza and made the Cocom ruler of all Yucatan.
These grandchildren are descendants in the forti-
with the Itzas and the Xius as his prisoners. They
th generation of the former royal house of
remained his vassals for another cycle of 2561
i'.rmal.
years.
No such written record is known in the case
The fourth return of Katun 8 Ahau (1441-
of the Itzas, the family to which the fictional hero
1461 .. . the period of our story) brought the suc-
of our story, Chac Xib Chac. is imagined as be-
cessful rebellion of the Xius and the Itzas against
longing. The Xius accepted almost at once the
the Cocom. Mayapan was destroyed and the coun-
Spanish conquerors and became Christians. Their
try was plunged into civil war that made the
records were preserved. The Itzas, on the other
Maya unabic to withstand the Spanish invaders
hand, resisted conquest for more than two hun-
who came about fifty years later.
dred years. Their records were destroyed.
Page Thirty
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
"The bearded strangers
will then return, led by one
named Montejo, and take the
country easily in the midst of
the civil strife. The Xius will
go over to the invaders, ac-
cepting their religion, and
they will live long in the land.
The Cocoms will resist and be
destroyed. But do you, my
children, Itzas, go with your
love southward, while there is
yet time, and build the city of
Tayasal on Lake Peten to be
a refuge for the Itzas."
"We must go," breathed
Teo, and Chac at last bowed
his stubborn head in accep-
tance of the old priest's com-
mand.
A few days later they were
on their way. They went by
the good road that led past
Chichen Itza, skirting that
city to the north.
In passing Teo could not
resist an impulse to look once
more at the terrible Well of
Sacrifice through the new eyes
of her happiness.
And so, as night fell, the
two slipped through the wood
and approached the deserted
platform that hung over the
dark water.
"I wonder if I should at-
tempt to get the tasselled
leather thongs I tied the vine
with," remarked Chac, as he
SO-CALLED "HOUSE OF THE MAGICIAN" UXMAL, IS ALSO KNOWN AS THE "HOUSE OF
stood beside his silent bride.
THE HIGH PRIEST
"If anyone should find them they could be trac-
I doubt if anyone will ever find nem, especially
ed to me, and so to you, because I've always been a
since no one except the old stilt dancer and maybe
bit of a dandy where my sandals were concerned.
Mother Tzib at the tavern, knows that you es-
The tassels of those thongs, which I pulled out of
caped."
my sandals, are strung with jade beads, and each
"Chac," said Teo suddenly in a far-away voice.
bead has the glyph of my name, Chac Zib Chac.
"I feel so strange. I think I'm going to fall. Save
carved on it."
me
"Oh Chac, isn't that dangerous?"
Darkness had come over Teo's eyes, a deep
"I don't know." replied the boy. "There was no
pulsating darkness that enveloped her. She felt
time to get them off the projecting rock that day.
herself falling.....
se I only cut the vine as close to the rock as I could.
(TO BE CONTINUED)
World Youth. April 1948
Page Thirty-one

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
My Friends
Hansel and Gretel
BY ERA ZISTEL
ANSEL and Gretel, the two young rac-
and sometimes their faces, too, for good measure.
coons, were found in the woods one day.
Common belief is that raccoons wash their
Their mother had evidently been killed by
food before they eat it. But this has not been the
a porcupine, for she was nowhere to be seen, and
the babies themselves were full of quills.
case with Hansel and Gretel, nor, I must add, with
any of the older wild raccoons I have watched
Our first job when we got them home was to
feeding. Only once did Gretel lend credence to
remove all the quills—a difficult and, for them.
the belief. That was when someone gave her a
very painful procedure. Most of the quills we
gift of several empty ice cream cones.
were able to pull out with a pair of pliers, but to
After the first sniff at them she went quite
get one out we had to operate, since it had already
wild, and hurriedly carried them over, one after
worked its way deep into the flesh. First we cut
another, to throw them into the water dish. There
away the fur, then we made an incision with a
she gave them a furious serubbing, for all the
razor blade, then, once the tip showed, we pulled
world like an impatient old woman washing out
out the inch and a half long barb. Poor little
a lot of dirty clothes. Of course they melted. Then
Gretel! She screamed and squirmed, but not once
she spent the next half hour contentedly trying
did she try to bite the hands that were helping
to fish the little pieces out of the water again.
her.
Neither she nor Hansel made any attempt to eat
They were very young, with only tiny buds
the sticky mass she finally managed to pile up
of teeth showing, too young for solid food. So
beside the dish.
our next problem was to find something they
Like kittens, they enjoyed playing with vari-
would eat. After trials and errors, we discov-
ous toys: rubber balls, paper balls, anything that
ered it to be Pablum and milk, the ideal kitten
rolled or skipped across the floor and rustled or
food, which they found so acceptable that they
tinkled. Gretel would spend half an hour or more
shrieked with joy whenever they saw a milk bot-
patting between her paws the bells tied by a
tle. However, after having been with us a month.
string to one of our chairs that has provided
they learned to eat other things also: crackers.
amusement for many generations of kittens. She
potatoes, raisins, raw meat, cooked vegetables.
also had a favorite rubber mouse that she liked
berries, corn, nuts and, if there were nothing bet-
to take to bed with her. If we made our fingers
ter to be had, bread. But, like all other raccoons.
run across the floor, they would both seurry after
they have a particular fondness for cookies (espe-
them and try to cateh them, and, having done so,
cially if they're marshmallow) and candy (espe-
would roll over on their backs and kick against
cially if it's chocolate).
the hand with their hind legs—again exactly as
When raccoons accept something from you, it
kittens do.
is always with their hands, not their mouths. A
From the very beginning they were ardently
piece of bread or cracker or cookies they will hold
and persistently affectionate. The first night they
in their two hands just as a human might, and
spent with us they both crawled into my lap,
bite into it very daintily. They are serupulously
kneaded it with their paws, purred, and finally
clean as far as their eating habits are concerned.
curled up to fall sound asleep there. They loved
A dozen times or more during a meal they must
to be picked up and held, and would show how
rush over to the water dish to wash their hands.
much they loved it by patting our faces with their
Page Thirty-two
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
hands, or washing and nibbling at the tips of our
was very urgent indeed, a frequent "Hm?" of in-
ears. They also took a mischievous delight in
quiry was added.
thrusting their little fingers inside our ears, and
When they were threatened, or when they quar-
inside our nostrils, too—but there we drew the
reled with each other, they growled like dogs,
line.
spread their hands wide, and walked backwards
In the door of our screened porch we have
and forwards on their hind feet—a posture that
constructed a small swinging door for the cats
reminded me somewhat of a belligerent crawfish.
to use in making their entrances and their exits.
They they looked and sounded very menacing,
and this, to our surprise, the raccoons learned to
but I never once saw them make an attack with or
operate in no time at all. And then, of course,
without provocation.
there was no getting away from them out of doors
From the first they were wary of the cats, but
either. Wherever we went, they had to follow:
tolerant, even when they had their faces slapped
to the pool where, while we drew our water, they
by sharp-clawed paws. With the kittens they
went paddling at first and later swam with great
played an occasional merry game of tag. But for
enjoyment; to the barn, to the dump, to the wood-
the dog they actually seemed to develop some af-
pile, and even into the woods.
fection. They liked to pat her face with their
One day we were halfway down the road when
hands, pull her ears, play with her fluffy tail, and
we heard a breathless "Prrt! Prrt!" behind us.
climb up into the wool on her back. To her cred-
and turned to see Gretel hurrying along to catch
it it must be said that she allowed herself to be
up with us as fast as her stubby little legs would
mauled thus without protest.
carry her. Farther back Hansel, the more timid
During the evening they slept on a shelf built
of the two, stood shrieking in terror. So we had
especially for them high up near the ceiling of
to retrace our steps and carry them back home
the poreh. Then, when we went to bed, they were
again. After that we had to sneak out of the
put to bed also, in a box on the floor. There was
house and away as furtively as a couple of thieves.
a special ceremony for this. They had each to be
and look around every once in a while to make
given a piece of hard candy to suck on until they
sure we were not being followed.
fell asleep. And they had also to be given an old
On fine days, once they were old enough to
skirt of mine to lie on. One night I forgot the
climb, they liked to spend the afternoon hours in
skirt. But not for long. The great to-do they
a tall maple close to the house. For a while they
made over the omission was enough to get me out
would be visible playing in the branches high
of bed in a hurry, to find the skirt and take it to
above us, batting at the leaves or chasing each
them.
other from limb to limb, or precariously hanging
After a month of their good-natured and ar-
from them upside down, like a couple of daring
dent companionship we grew very fond of Hansel
circus acrobats. But after a while they would
and Gretel, and were greatly tempted to make
disappear, and although I prowled around and
sure, by some method of confinement, that they
looked from every angle, I was never able to find
would always be with us. But there is a law, de-
out where they went. However, when supper
signed primarily not for the protection of the ani-
time came I had only to stand at the foot of the
mals themselves, but rather for the men who trap
tree and call, and two little masked heads would
and kill them, that says they must not be denied
peer down at me, then, with a seramble, they de-
the freedom of the woods. We obeyed that law,
scended the huge tree trunk to join me, coming
and because we obeyed it, tragedy struck.
down head first, and without a slip.
One evening Hansel came home, without being
They were very conversational. Their eager
called. alone. Even if he had not tried to tell us,
"Prrt! Prrt! Prrt!' might mean "Please pick us
with urgent chirring, that something had hap-
up." "Please play with us." or "Please, could we
pened to Gretel, we should have known, for so
have something to eat?" The long drawn out
great was their affection for each other, that they
chirring sound they made was more demanding.
were never more than a few feet apart.
They were then very hungry, or very lonely, or
very worried about something, and in need of im-
All night long, at intervals, we searched and
mediate reassurance and attention or protection.
called for Gretel. Hansel was inconsolable. He
To add emphasis to the chirring, when the need
would not eat, cried until he was sick, and could
World Youth. April 1948
Page Thirty-three

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
not be comforted until at last I picked him up and
her head pillowed on my shoulder. Now she can
held him on my lap, where he hiccuped like an
cat only from my hand, which must make up for
exhausted, miserable child, then finally purred a
the one of hers that is useless.
bit and fell into a restless sleep. Next morning
Yes, she lives. But for how long? What will
he got up early and went to look for her. So did
it be that she will encounter next, when she is
we, but without hope, and without success.
well enough to go out in the woods again? A
Then, at noon, a timid little girl came to tell
hunter? A trap? Another gang of boys? Will
us a halting and terrible story of something she
it be a swift, mereiful death, or such terrible tor-
had witnessed and could not forget.
ture as she has already suffered?
It had happened while we were away. Hansel
And Hansel, what became of him? The dread-
and Gretel were up in their tree, waiting for us
ful eneounter with the boys brought about a
to come home and give them their supper. A gang
change in Hansel. For three days, while Gretel
of boys, passing by, saw them there. Did they stop
hovered between life and death, he did not come
for a moment to admire their beauty, to talk to
near us at all. We gave him up as lost. But on
them? Yes, they stopped, but it was only to pelt
the fourth night, quite late, we heard the familiar
them with rocks. Hansel immediately climbed
"Prrt? Prrt? Hm?" somewhere near the house.
up higher in the tree, where the thick branches
When we called he came to us quite readily, al-
hid him from sight, and thus escaped. But the
lowed us to pick him up and fondle him and carry
trusting Gretel made a perfect target. Hit once.
him into the house. He was as tame and gentle
and again, and again, down she tumbled at last
and loving as if he had never been away.
from her high perch and, bleeding and terrified.
He was also much thinner and very hungry.
sought protection where she thought it should be
Evidently the woods had not offered him much
—under the legs of the very humans who were
in the way of food. Three plates of Pablum, two
her tormenters.
bowls of milk, a handful of raisins, several crack-
The boys took her home with them and shut
ers and three pieces of candy were devoured in
her up in a small, dark box. There we found her
short order. Then he played with the overjoyed
the next afternoon, after the little girl had told
Gretel for a while, and then he wanted to go out
us her story. She had been given no food or wa-
again, back to his woods.
ter. One of her paws had been badly mangled
We locked the little swinging door so that
by a rock, and was no more than a mass of raw.
he could not get out, with a hook on each side of
swollen flesh. One of her eyes had been hurt. She
it. But with a casual flip of his hand he opened
was bleeding from the nose, apparently from in-
cach of the hooks, and then he was gone, into the
ternal injury, and seemed so close to death that
night, to his natural home.
we had no hope for her.
Again, for days, we had no glimpse of him.
Yet, ill and miserable and in such great pain
until, on the fifth night, we heard his imperative
as she was, still she managed to purr when we
"Prrt? Prrt?" directly outside our window. There
put her into the box that was home to her, on the
he was, halfway up the trunk of a nearby tree,
old skirt of mine that had been her bed. There
peering in to see what we were doing. Again he
she slept, hovering between life and death, for
had come back for food, for a play with Gretel,
three days, rousing only when we offered her a
for an hour or two of our companionship.
bit of milk, and refusing all other food. The
We did not try to keep him back this time
fourth day she purred when we talked to her, and
gently patted our fingers with her good hand
when he wanted to go. For perhaps it is better
thus. No doubt he will continue to return when-
when we held them out to her.
ever he has need of food, or help, or affection. But
Now, after two weeks of pain and inactivity.
gradually he will learn to fend for himself, and
she is up and about again, hobbling around on
will come to fear and avoid the humans who are
three legs, with the fourth, still raw and swollen
his most dangerous enemies. For Gretel it is
and useless, held carefully in front of her, and
now too late to hope for such salvation.
again she plays with the tinkling bells and the
rustling balls of paper and the rubber mouse that
Jaonuary, 1948: Hansel is gone. He paid his
she likes to take to bed with her. Now she sleeps.
last visit to us the night before hunting season
like a spoiled kitten, in the crook of my arm with
opened. The next day was one of madness, with
Page Thirty-four
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
almost continuous gunfire echoing through the
THE REAL SPEED KING
woods. And we never saw him again.
Insects can afford to smile (if insects do
Gretel, now nearly full grown, is still with us.
smile) at man's frantic attempt to travel faster
faithful and devoted. The injured eye is now
than speed of sound. One of them has come close
almost entirely sightless. The paw. although nice-
to doing that for a long time, without any fuss or
ly healed, is still so sensitive that she winces if
publicity.
it is touched. Probably because so many of the
This insect rejoices in the name of Cepheno-
small bones were broken, it has lost some of its
myia. According to Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews.
usefulness.
director of the American Museum of Natural His-
By speciad permission of the state authorities.
tory, no less than s1s miles an hour has been
we are allowed to keep her until May first. Then
chalked up against himhim, because the female
the game warden is to come and take her away.
of his species does not fly quite so fast.
"to a suitable habitat". To the woods not our
"This is estimated by the best scientific ob-
woods that she has come to know and love-but
servations." says Dr. Andrews. "Still." he adds.
some strange woods, where no doubt certain and
"Td feel more comfortable about Cephenomyia's
perhaps terrible death awaits her. Should 1. be-
reputation it it were possible to subject it to tests
tore he comes, give her that death with my own
in a wind tunnel. That being out of the question.
hands, in a way that I know would not be terrible?
we must accept the work of Dr. Charles H. T.
Townsend, a seientist who has devoted many
cars to the study of insects and to this one in
particular.
"Cephenomyia flies at high altitudes where
air pressure is reduced, and if it were to fly at
its top speed in a direct line for seventeen hours
it would completely encirele the world in one day-
light day."
It is net surprising that insects can claim the
speed championship of the world in the air be-
cause they have been flying longest. Birds have
Leen in existence only for a paltry 135 million
years, whereas inseets have been flving for sey-
erad hundred million years. Man has only recent-
ly begum to spread his wings, and even the insects
would have to admit that he has not done so badly
in the short time he has had to learn.
INSECT DINOSAURS
Rule ef the carth by inseets is not a nightmare
age still to come. It has already happened and
is finished.
"Insect dinosaurs". creatures resembling
dragonflies but having a wing span of nearly a
rard, domirated the air for 50,000,000 years, ae-
cording to Prof. Frank M. Carpenter of Harvard
University.
The reign of these and other insects came with
the coad age and ended with Permian, which fol-
lowed it in geologic time. By then. fish-like crea-
tures had evolved into reptiles and amphibians
able to stay out of water permanently, and the
long reign of land vertebrates had begun.
ERA ZISTEL AND GRETEL
S. S.
Wo,ld Youth. April 1948
Page Thirty-t

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
The STRANGE and WONDERFUL
Story Eight
THE BABY ON THE GHAT
RAS
e are going to Benares," announced Mr.
"Something rather marvellous," returned the
Slovinski one evening at dinrer.
Hindu boy, in his precise English speech.
"Oh dad!" protested Max, looking up from
"Azra and Sunny between them persuaded Az-
his plate of curried chicken and speaking with his
ra's grandmother to receive me. They had given
mouth full. "We've hardly seen the Punjab, yet."
her a rather highly colored version of my part in
"Haven't you realized, son, that a whole life-
the affair of the robbers, and I'm afraid I didn't
time would hardly suffice to see all the mysteries
try very hard to set the matter straight, since it
and wonders of India? What I myself regret is
was my only way of keeping in touch with Azra."
that we haven't had time, this trip, to go south in-
"Let me tell it," interrupted Sunny. "Mrs. ul-
to Rajputana, one of the most fascinating and gor-
Din liked Tara immensely. She's a very broad-
geous parts of India, where the Rajput Princes,
minded old lady, even if she does keep strict pur-
who claim descent form the Sun-god, rule in the
dah. We talked a lot about changing times in India
midst of all the colorful pageantry of ancient In-
and she agreed that Hindus and Moslems must
dia."
learn to get along together, even if it leads to ro-
"Who are the Rajputs, really?" asked Max. "I
mances which in her young days would have been
mean, aside from myths about them."
considered disgraceful. I could see that she was
"They are the real Aryans of the world, using
observing Tara closely and liking what she saw."
that word in a strict racial sense. They conquered
"Finally she suggested something quite won-
India thousands of years ago from the Indian ab-
derful," broke in Tara. "You know some of the
origines, a very dark-skinned people who still sur-
wild Mohammedan tribesmen from over the west-
vive as members of the lower castes and among the
ern border are beginning to try to invade Kashmir,
so-called Untouchables. The Rajputs have built
because the Hindu ruler of Kashmir, Sir Hari
some of the most beautiful palaces in the world.
Singh, has indicated that he wishes Kashmir to
We must come back some day and see them."
join the Dominion of Hindu India."
"Ail right. But besides the things we haven't
"Yes, I know. The British and Americans are
seen, there is the little matter of Azra, the Moham-
being flown out of Kashmir in anticipation of
medan heroine of the Robbers in Purdah, that is
trouble there. Mother has already been flown to
still outstanding." said Max.
Darjeeling."
His sister, Sunny, exchanged a quick glance
"Yes. Well, Azra's grandmother said that as
with their young Brahman friend, Tara Dass.
a Mohammedan she feels morally responsible, to
"Why Max," she cried mischievously, "I didn't
some extent, for the aggressions of the Moham-
know you were interested."
medan tribesmen, and, to make a long story short,
"What has happened about her, then?" asked
she has invited my family to come and stay with
Max. "Nobody tells me anything."
them until the troubles are over."
"You tell him, Tara," suggested Sunny.
"So that's the reason you've been looking so
Page Thirty-sir
Korld Youth, April 1948

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
pleased with life the past few days, is it ?"' remark-
ed Max. "Well, good luck to you, though I must
say it seems to me that both you and Azra are
pretty young."
"Oh, one naturally does not think too far a-
head," said Tara reddening. "But at least if our
families can get together it is a beginning."
"And do you know something else she said?"
cried Sunny. "She said that although she wishes
Azra to observe purdah until the disturbances have
quieted down, for the protection it gives her, she
hopes that Azra will go unveiled for the rest of her
life. And she quoted the Mohammedan leader. Mo-
hammed Ali Jinnah, Governor General of Pakis-
tam, who said recently, "Purdah is an evil anach-
ronism. We are doing our best to wipe it out. Its
disappearance is only a question of time."
"Will she and the aunts come out of purdah.
too?" asked Max, interested.
"Maybe, slowly. You see they are used to it.
and they would feel shy if they had to go through
the streets with their faces bare. But Azra, who is
SELF-PURIFICATION. A FAKIR
not shy at all, except maybe with Tara, is longing
for the moment when she can put aside her veil
for good."
"That shouldn't be long now, thanks to the ef-
fective work of the Emergeney Committee headed
by Earl Mountbatten, and the genuine cooperation
of both Mohammedan and Hindu leaders to bring
about peace." observed Mr. Slovinski.
"There are still plenty of refugees around.
though."
"Yes, there is still the problem of the homeless,
Sunny." agreed her father. "But this problem.
gigantic as it is, is being efficiently handled by the
Inter-governmental Commission for Relief and Re-
habilitation. As a measure for relief they have or-
dered a million quilts and a million padded coats
and are feeding the people. And as for rehabilita-
tion, experts are resettling the refugees from both
sides ef the border in the farms abandoned by ref-
ugees going to the other side, and have distributed
a hundred thousand tons of wheat seed so they can
begin to produce food for next year. This creative
THE WELL OF KNOWLEDGE. BENARES
World Youth. April 1948
Page Thirty-seren

=== Page 134 === (confidence 1.00)
cooperation does not make many headlines, but it
"I'm only half serious," explained the tall tur-
is far more important and significant for India's
banned Sikh with a smile. "But really you know,
future than the occasional riots that break out."
it was because of rumors spreading through Eu-
An Indian colleague of Mr. Slovinski's, a Mr.
rope during the fifteenth century of the fabulous
Bhag Singh, had stopped by their table to greet
wealth of the Indies, its spices—its gold and jew-
his friend and nodded approval as he heard the
els that set Christopher Columbus to dreaming of
last few words.
a voyage across the world to find these treasures.
"You are right," he said, shaking hands with
He found America instead, and to save his face,
Mr. Slovinski and nodding with a smile to the oth-
he called the aborigines he found there . . .Indians.
ers. "You may have noticed a certain resentment
Which has been a source of confusion to all ever
toward the foreign press recently here in the Pun-
since!"
jab. It is unrealistic of us to feel resentment at the
In the laughter that followed Tara spoke ser-
scareheads about massacres in India that appear
iously.
in your American newspapers.
"I don't think it was just to save his face, sir,"
"After all, the more irresponsible of our In-
he suggested. "It was a genuine mistake."
dian newspapers feature the murders, the gang
"No doubt, but you'll admit that it is very con-
wars and the occasional race riots and lynchings
fusing. Now, to differentiate, we have to speak
in America in such a way as to give Indians a very
of Red Indians and East Indians . . . Moslem In-
false impression of American life, just as you
dians, and so on."
Americans are given a false impression of Indian
life by some of your newspapers.
"I've got an idea," Sunny spoke up suddenly.
"I suppose if you were to add up all the Indians
"Many thousands of Indians die every day in
there are in North and South America and add
the year of diseases, just as thousands die in Amer-
them to the four hundred million Indians in In-
ica from the same causes. These deaths, though by
dia, you'd maybe find that nearly a third of the
far the more numerous, are not headline material.
It is the violent deaths, gang wars or religious ri-
people of the world were called Indians. Why
don't we just all call ourselves Indians and stop
ots, that get the headlines. And so ugly and largely
bothering with the differences?"
untrue pictures are built up."
"You are right, my friend, and I think my chil-
There was a general shout of laughter at Sun-
dren are getting a somewhat fairer picture of In-
ny's bright idea.
dia in their minds by their travel here. After all.
"I imagine that another third, or maybe a quar-
considering that India is overerowded, being half
ter, of the people of the world are Mongolians,"
the size of the U. S. A. with three times as many
said Max. "How'd they like to be called Indians?"
people in it, India is a peace-
ful and happy country, even
compared with our own. Very
few Americans die of cholera.
but then, very few Indians die
from motor accidents. Won't
you take coffee with us?"
Bhag Singh laughed as he
sat in the chair the waiter
brought for him. "Thank you.
I will. I'm glad your young
people are developing a friend-
ly interest in my country, for
after all, you must remember
that you Americans owe the
very discovery of your coun-
try to ours."
"What!" exploded Max,
incredulously.
BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF BENARES
Page Thirty-cight
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
"Lots of Mongolian people here in India are—
the Gurkhas, for example," remarked Bhag
Singh, coming to Sunny's rescue.
"Well, what about the black races in Africa
and America, and the white ones of Europe and
America?"
"We've got lots of black people and white peo-
ple here in India, too," persisted the tall Sikh.
with twinkling eyes. "And what's more, we've
got statesmen of the highest caliber here in India
—belonging to several races themselves—who are
doing a splendid job, in the face of age-old feuds
and dire poverty and ignorance, of welding the
whole miscellaneous lot into one nation—India."
"Let's all adjourn to the United Nations As-
sembly and tell them we don't care what they la-
bel us, since we're all so mixed up anyway, as
long as they bring about peaceful cooperation in
the world." cried Sunny enthusiastically.
"Hear! Hear!" remarked Max drily.
"All right, I'll come down off the rostrum.'
Sunny assured him, and turned to the tall man in
the turban. "Mr. Singh, won't you tell us some-
thing about yourself? We're sort of collecting
personalities for our mental serapbook about In-
THE GOLDEN TEMPLE AT BENARES
dia. There are so many different kinds."
my hair . . . it is that long." His eyes twinkled
"Very well, you shall stick a pin through me
as he surveyed his group of young listeners. "And
and add me to your collection. To begin with.
I always carry the kirpan, though in my case it
I am a Sikh, as you must know from my name.
is only a symbolie toy." He showed them a small
And I am an orthodox Sikh, to the extent of nev-
dagger on his watch chain. "Yet my orthodox
er cutting my hair or beard. If I were to unwind
father sent me to Dr. Ambedkar's college in Bom-
my turban I could prove to you that I can sit on
bay where I had the good fortune to study with
Brahmans, Jains, Moslems
and others."
"Isn't Dr. Ambedkar the
famous leader of the U'ntouch-
ables?"
"Yes, and the fact that
this college, founded by an U'n-
touchable for Untouchables is
attended by caste Hindus
should surprise you Ameri-
cans, for it is just as if, in A-
merica, a Negro college found-
ed by a Negro were attended
by whites: 1,245 Whites to 55
Negroes in the student body.
That is the proportion, as it
happens, of Untouchables to
Caste Hindus in Dr. Ambed-
kar's college. Yet those same
Caste Hindus, fifty years ago,
A BURNING GHAT
World Youth. April 1948
Page Thirty-nine

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
would have felt themselves defiled if the very
called the Eastern Ghats and the Western Ghats."
shadow of an Untouchable had fallen across them
Sunny had ceased to listen. A gay party of
in the street. So you see, in some ways, we in In-
women in the loveliest saris she had ever seen
dia are solving our racial problems very rapidly.
was passing. It turned up a narrow side-street.
Remember that when you read about our religious
Sunny impulsively darted after them to have a
riots."
better look at the silken saris of rose, blue, apple-
"I think that is thrilling," said Sunny earn-
green, crimson and yellow, embroidered and in-
estly as she rose with the rest from the table. "I
terwoven with gold, which they wore. The wom-
wish you were going with us to Benares. Isn't
en were singing the high pitched, strangely ca-
that a great center for religious fanaticism?"
denced songs of India and carried silk-wrapped
"Fanaticism, yes," said the tall Sikh. "But
bundles in their hands.
also it is a center for much pure religious feeling.
One of them, seeing Sunny's friendly interest,
Mother Ganges, you see, is so pure that she puri-
held out her hand and spoke in English.
fies all she touches. You will see many strange
"We are going to a christening," she said.
things there, but remember that religion is of the
"Would you like to go, too?"
heart, and only God knows the heart of man."
"Oh yes, please," said Sunny. She looked be-
"But these people who sit on spikes, and stick
hind her and saw she had come farther down the
long knives into themselves, and do such odd
dark and rather dirty alley than she had realized.
things—surely they are fanatics?"
The boys and her father were nowhere in sight.
"Labels again. Beware of labels." said the
"Oh well, they'll wait for me," she thought.
tall man, smiling as he left her, in order to con-
"I mustn't miss this."
tinue his conversation with her father.
"I suppose I couldn't go back and call my fa-
Sunny was thinking of his words as she
walked with the others along the ghats at Be-
nares. All about her rose the domes of temples
and shrines, some of black marble, some of white
marble carved into lace-like patterns, some made
of gleaming beaten gold. Flocks of green parra-
keets swooped in and out among the colorful
buildings. Haughty peacocks with spread tails
stalked by, milk-white bullocks wreathed with
fresh flowers wandered at will.
Everywhere were people, masses of people
from beggars to maharajahs. Holy men of every
description moved in and out among the crowds.
some chanting and rattling begging-bowls, some
wrapped in contemplation.
"Those are the burning ghats over there,"
said Mr. Slovinski, brushing off some ashes from
the open-air cremations, that had settled on his
sleeve. "The most desirable thing in life, for
many millions of Hindus, is to die and be burned
beside the great Mother Ganges, and to have their
ashes scattered on her purifying waters."
"Dad, what exactly is a ghat?" asked Max.
"The word 'ghat' means steps, and refers spe-
cifically to the steps on a river bank down which
the pilgrims pass to bathe in a holy river. There
are bathing ghats and burning ghats. And the
word is also used in India in much the same way
as we use the word 'foot-hills' in English. You'll
see in your map of Southern India ranges of hills
A STREET IN BENARES
Page Fort!
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 137 === (confidence 1.00)
ther and brother?" she suggested tentatively.
"No. No men, please," said the woman. smil-
ing. "But you will be very welcome if you like
to come."
The group of women turned into a larger
street where they entered a narrow gate, and
Sunny, following them, found herself in a small
courtyard shut in by high walls. With a slight
feeling of uneasiness she followed up a narrow
dark stairway to an upper room of the house.
Once inside the doorway of that room she stopped
and gasped with astonishment.
Seated on a pile of rugs against the farther
wall was a very pale but smiling woman who
seemed to be clad in solid gold. Over at the other
side of the room stood an elderly woman, evident-
ly the grandmother, holding a week-old baby in
her arms. But it was the costume of the seated
woman that struck Sunny dumb with amazement.
She glanced inquiringly at her new-found friend.
who was wearing a pretty marvelous sari herself.
It was hand woven pure silk, a deep rich rose col-
or, spotted all over with flowers of pure gold wo-
ven into the silk, and with a ten-inch border of
gold.
"Am I mistaken." asked Sunny, "or is our
hostess dressed from head to foot in pure gold?
Is she a goddess or something?"
"No, she is a new mother." returned the other.
HINDU GIRI. WITH TEMPLE OFFERING
smiling. "So, naturally, she is wearing her best
Trays of sweet cakes and candies were passed.
sari for the christening. Yes, it is gold, and so
Sunny took a delicate arabesque made of honey
heavy that she could not stand up in it. We Jains
and butter that melted in her mouth. The next
are the goldsmiths of India. We spin pure soft
tray that was passed to her seemed to contain
gold into threads as fine as silk and weave it into
candies wrapped in gold paper. She took one (it
cloth that is supple and delicate and, of course.
was almond paste), and as she watched the oth-
never tarnishes. Come and sit beside the young
ers, absently crumbled the "gold paper" wrapping
mother. She does not speak English, but she will
in her fingers. It hardened down into a heavy
be interested to see you."
pellet as if it were a bit of tinfoil. She looked
Sunny, feeling rather dazed, sat down on the
down at it in surprise, then glanced inquiringly
floor beside their pale hostess.
at her friend in the rose sari.
The smiles and bows of the introduction hay-
"Good heavens, it's gold leaf, isn't it?" she ex-
ing been exchanged, she sat and watched the
claimed.
women in their graceful saris, like richly exotic
The woman nodded and smiled. "Don't throw
flowers, greet their hostess with charming ges-
it away." she advised her.
tures and friendly words. They laid their silk-
wrapped bundles, evidently presents for the baby.
Sunny glanced at her hostess. The girl, not
beside her, and went to exclaim over the sleep-
much older than Sunny herself, was leaning back
ing child in its proud grandmother's arms. San-
against the wall, her eyes closed. She looked very
tired and frail.
ny wondered if she could go and look at the baby.
then remembered that some Indians believe that
"Poor dear." she exclaimed. "The sari is too
foreigners have the evil eye, and decided she had
heavy for her."
better not.
She picked up an edge of the skirt that lay
World Youth. April 1948
Page Forty-one

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
beside her on the floor and for the first time real-
a foray from a nearby temple that was sacred to
ly realized that the glittering costume was what
them dashed up and pulled at Max's clothes mis-
it looked to be, spun out of pure heavy gold. Be-
chievously, then scampered off. Having disen-
sides that, the young mother wore heavy neck-
tangled himself from them, Max continued.
laces, bracelets and nose and ear rings of great
"She might have got into trouble with some
rubies, pearls, emeralds and diamonds. Sunny
of their sacred animals. Maybe she bumped into
got up from the floor decisively.
a cow and a Hindu mob attacked her, thinking
"Thank you very much for letting me come."
she was being disrespectful to it."
she said in English. "It has been a wonderful
"Sunny is far too discreet to do anything like
experience. But now I hope you will go back to
that. Trust Sunny. She'll be back."
bed. You mustn't over-tire yourself."
"Don't you agree with me, Tara? Isn't there
The pale mother, who had opened her eyes.
danger for a girl alone?"
watched Sunny's face as she spoke. She could not
"Not for Sunny," returned the Hindu boy
understand the words, but she saw the expression
calmly. "I think she has gone off to look at some-
of kindness and concern on the American girl's
thing. The only danger is that she might get lost
face and responded to it.
among all these temples and alleys. If we stay
"We are all going soon," said the woman in the
here she will find her way back, I think."
rose sari. "I am glad you came with us. little
At that moment Sunny appeared, a little dis-
American girl. Shall I send some one with you
heveled from pushing her way through the beg-
to find your father and brother?"
gars who had gathered in hopes of alms from the
"No thank you. They won't be far. And thank
proud father of the little Jain baby, but eager to
you for bringing me."
tell of her adventure.
Sunny ran down the steps and out through
Another adventure was about to come to them.
the courtyard into the alley. This was now filled
As they stood at the top of the steps leading down
with beggars of all kinds, lepers, blind men, crip-
to the Ganges, listening to Sunny and talking
ples, holy men with their begging bowls. Sunny
about the pilgrims who stood praying and bath-
dropped her pellet of gold into the outstretehed
ing in the holy water, they saw a little girl, about
hand of a sad-looking widow, and tried to push
four years old, toddle down the steps after her fa-
her way through the clamoring crowd.
ther who had gone down to bathe, leaving her
Meanwhile Max was argu-
ing anxiously with his father
as they stood on the bank of
the Ganges.
"Dad, I've really got to go
looking for her. Some drunk-
en tramp may have carried
her off."
"Now Max, have you seen
a single drunken person in
the whole of India since you've
been here?"
"Well no, I haven't, now
you speak of it. But there are
plenty of fanatics!"
"Have you heard even a
rumor of Europeans or Amer-
icans being molested during
all these troubles?"
"No, but ... ."
A noisy mob of chattering
grimacing grey monkeys on
PURIFICATION BY BATHING IN THE HOLY GANGES
Page Forty-two
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 139 === (confidence 1.00)
behind without a backward glance at her.
washed away forever, and he was now assured of
A flower-wreathed white bullock, making its
a favorable rebirth. His face turned sullen, how-
way down the steps to drink, pushed by the child
ever, as Max accosted him abruptly.
and she fell into the water.
"This your little girl?" asked the American
"That child will drown," cried Max. "And
boy angrily. "Don't you know how to take care
of her? She almost drowned while you were out
no one is doing anything about it. She must be-
there? Hasn't she got a mother?"
long to that man out there bathing. Mister! Hey.
mister!"
Tara interposed anxiously, for the man
seemed to meet anger with anger. "You shouldn't
The man, absorbed in his devotions, did not
turn his head.
attack people like that, Maxie," he said. "Maybe
you don't understand."
"I know she belongs to him. She was clinging
to his hand as he came to the steps. I saw him
"What is there to understand?" returned Max
tell her to go back."
impatiently. "The fellow went off trying to save
his own soul, I suppose, and left his little girl to
The child's floating hair was now all that
drown. I've heard these people don't care much
could be seen on the dirty water at the edge of
about girl babies, but this is really more than I
the steps. Her thin little arms had ceased to
can stand by and watch."
struggle.
Tara asked the man a question in Hindustani.
Max slipped off his shoes and started down.
and the man replied.
"Look out, Max, it may be sacrilege for you
"He says his wife's body has just been burned
to go into the Ganges."
over on the burning ghat."
"I don't care. We can't let this happen." He
"That's all right, and we sympathize with his
waded out waist high in the water and caught up
grief, but make him understand that his child was
the dripping child.
about to drown because of his neglect of her."
"Give her to me," said Sunny. The child
opened soft brown eyes and shuddered with fear
The man looked at the child in Sunny's arms,
of the strange white faces bending over her. Sun-
but made no move to take it. He shrugged his
ny held the thin cold little body close to her, and
shoulders and turned to go, speaking back to Tara
after a moment's struggle she settled down like
over his shoulder in Hindustani. He had other
a kitten, realizing that she was among friends
rituals to attend to in the temples of Benares.
Max kept an indignant eye on the bathing
"He says it is only a girl child, and a widow
man. He had not so much as turned his head,
at that. He says it would have been better if you
but kept dipping and rising, throwing the glitter-
had left her alone. Now she is your responsi-
bility."
ing drops of water over himself as he prayed for
purification. By the burning ghats of Benares.
The child's long lashes were drooping over
where sorrowing relatives watch the half con-
her pale brown cheek. She was about to fall
sumed bodies of their dear ones float down the
asleep from exhaustion. Sunny held her close and
stream all day and every day, there is always con:-
looked bewildered at Tara.
motion, and the shrill screams of the people who
"Did I understand you to say that the man
had witnessed Max's rescue of the child had not
said we should have let her drown?" she stam-
roused him from his devotions.
mered incredulously.
"Ask her if that's her father out there. Tara."
Tara nodded. "He is a very poor and a very
said Max.
ignorant man," he said.
Tara spoke to the child in Hindustani, but she
Max, his fists clenched, full of unreasoning
did not understand. She turned her face in
rage that urged him to give the unnatural father
against Sunny's warm shoulder.
a good beating, watched the retreating back of the
"Poor little mite," murmured Sunny.
pilgrim.
"I'd like to have a word or two with that fel-
"Hold hard, Maxie," said Mr. Slovinski, warn-
low," said Max angrily. "Look, he's coming
ingly. "You can't change a thousand years of su-
back."
perstition in a day. And you can't change peo-
The man's face was transfigured as he made
ple's minds by beating them up. Yes, Sunny,"
his way back up the stairs. All his sins had been
he turned to his daughter, "That's what he said.
World Youth. April 1948
Page Forty-three

=== Page 140 === (confidence 1.00)
And you must try to understand his point of
Hindus, she is her husband's murderer, perhaps
view, outrageous and cruel as it seems to you. As
by some sin committed in a former existence."
he sees it, the child has nothing to live for. She
"But I never heard of anything so dreadful."
is a girl child, a widow, and so she will be a life-
cried Sunny, holding the sleeping child more
long burden to him, since she can never marry.
closely to her. "It's so—so unjust. And so cruel."
Death in the waters of the Holy Ganges, however,
"Yes, and many thousands of enlightened Hin-
would have released him from the burden of one
dus, both men and women, are devoting their lives
more mouth to feed, and it would have been far
to putting an end to this abuse, which has grown
better for the child herself. Death in the Holy
through hundreds of years of ignorance . . . and
Ganges would have passed her on to a more for-
poverty, too, Sunny. Since their religion forbids
tunate incarnation. She might even have been
her to marry again, they would not be human if
born a boy child."
they did not blame her for becoming an economic
Sunny stared at him open-mouthed for a
burden on her family."
moment.
"It isn't her fault."
"Widow? Did you say that this mite is a
"No. But how just is the ordinary human
widor?" she gasped.
mind when weakened by chronic anxiety and
"Yes, that's what he said, and it was unwise
hunger and ignorance? Try to understand the
of him to admit it, for it is against the Sarda Act
situation as this man sees it."
of India to betroth or marry little girls. But it
"I may understand, but I'll never forgive it,"
is still done secretly in the villages, among the ig-
said Sunny rebelliously.
norant and poverty-stricken people who wish to
"You needn't. But listen," continued her fa-
get their girl children settled as soon as possible.
ther imperturbably. "The man is a villager, and
This baby must have been the promised bride of
very, very poor. Poorer than you can even im-
someone, perhaps a neighbor's boy of six, or a
agine poverty to be. His wife is dead—and note,
man of sixty. In eight or ten years he would
please, that he must have loved her, for he did
claim her as his bride. But meanwhile the man
her the greatest service in his power after her
or the boy must have died, and since among the
death: he brought her body to be burned beside
ignorant, orthodox Hindus it is always considered
the sacred Ganges, so as to assure her a happy
the woman's fault if the husband dies, for what-
rebirth.
ever reason, she must pay the penalty for that sin
"Now she is gone, he must look for another
by lifelong widowhood and penance.
wife, preferably a young girl. Can he expect his
"In the old days, she was burned alive on her
new bride to take on the care of a girl baby, a
husband's funeral pyre, but
the British Government put a
stop to that practice, which
was called suttee. Perhaps the
quick death of suttee, cruel as
it was, was preferable to the
living death of the Hindu wid-
ow who has no personal rights
of any kind."
"But this baby isn't mar-
ried! Maybe she's never even
seen the man or boy who's
supposed to be her husband."
"Probably she never has.
But she's married, just the
same, having been formally
betrothed to him, and now
that he's dead, she's a widow.
and, according to the ortho-
doxy of the ignorant mass of
BATHING GHAT, BENARES
Page Forty-four
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
widow who will be perpetually on their hands
tor. I'm sure she's bright, and India needs doc-
since she cannot be married off, and who is too
tors. Let's get away from this place. There's
young even to be useful as a drudge around the
death and cruel callousness everywhere. Look at
house?"
that! It's just so wrong!"
Sunny looked down at the sleeping child in her
She pointed to where an arrogant, flower-
arms.
wreathed bullock was crowding some thin, hun-
"Oh Daddy, couldn't we keep her? She'd be
gry-eyed children off the narrow street. "They
no more trouble than a kitten."
ought to kill that animal and make soup for those
Mr. Slovinski sighed.
hungry children."
"Stop talking like that, Sunny," said her fa-
"I don't see how we can, Sunny. The moment
ther sternly. "Many of these pilgrims understand
you begin to think of India in terms of human
English. That's a shocking and blasphemous
suffering, your heart is broken. That is perhaps
thing to say from their point of view. Those bulls
both cause and effect of their philosophies which
are sacred. They must be fed and cared for
try to place the reason for such things on sins
though children starve. You may think they are
committed in a previous incarnation. They know
wrong, but you are not competent, my dear, to
that the baby in your arms has not sinned during
judge the heights and depth of Hindu religious
her few years of life. Then why is she doomed
philosophy. You are doing one thing today which,
to suffer? It must be because she sinned in some
according to your lights, is the right thing to do.
previous life."
So bring the child and we will leave these God-
"I never heard anything so ridiculous." cried
seeking pilgrims to their devotions."
Sunny.
"Calm down, Sunny," said Max sympatheti-
"No Sunny," returned her father quickly.
cally. "I know how you feel. Want me to carry
"You are not wise enough to judge the universe
the small one for a while? She's a cute little
yet. I understand your feeling for this child.
trick, isn't she? Look at the length of those eye-
though. We will see what we can do."
lashes. Too thin, though. We'll have to feed her
"There comes Max. Where has he been?"
up."
"I followed that blighter to the door of a
Sunny drew a long breath, holding the sleep-
temple," explained Max. "It seemed to be an es-
ing child more closely to her. "Lots of creamy
pecially holy one, and only for Hindus. They
milk and cereal," she said, "and some good beef
wouldn't let me in. What can we do about the
broth."
fellow? Set the police on him?"
"Don't overdo it, Sunny," remarked her fa-
ther over his shoulder as he pushed a way for
"Even if we foreed him to take the child back
them through the crowds. "She's never tasted
she'd lead a miserable life. Sunny wants to keep
meat, and the little stomach couldn't stand rich
her. What do you boys think of that idea?" Mr.
food too soon."
Slovinski turned to Tara, who, an enlightened
Hindu himself, had been leaning against a para-
"Okay," said Sunny, smiling suddenly at him.
pet looking sadly down at the devout bathers in
"And thanks, Dad." She turned back to Tara,
the Holy Ganges. "I think, sir," he replied, "that
who was wandering sadly along behind them.
the child would be happiest in one of the many
"And, Tara, excuse me for sounding so vehement.
homes maintained by educated Hindus for little
I know it isn't Hinduism at its best that makes
widows like her. Only the poor ignorant villag-
these cruel things happen. It's the same ignor-
ers of India now follow the custom of child wid-
ance and superstition that show themselves in
owhood . . . they and some of the ultra-orthodox
other ways in other countries."
high caste Hindus who cling to the old ways. The
"And greed and indifference," added Tara
trouble is that there are so many millions of ig-
gravely. "India is a very wealthy country, with
norant here in India. But if the child is put in
plenty for all if all were wise and industrious and
one of these excellent homes, she will be free to
patriotic in the true sense. I have learned my
marry later if she wishes, and meanwhile she will
lesson on this trip away from my beloved home in
be educated to become a useful woman of India."
Kashmir. I expected to go on in the comfortable
"We could pay for her keep and education,"
way my family lives there. But now I mean to
cried Sunny. "Let's have her trained to be a doe-
work for the rest of my life with the hundreds
World Youth. April 1948
Page Forty-five

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
of thousands of truly patriotic Indians who have
she put it back into its soft paper wrappings. "I
ended all caste barriers among themselves. and
have to start a fund for the baby's education. I
who have abolished religious quarrels and are de-
wonder what her name is?"
voting themselves to bringing a happier and more
"Maybe she'll tell you when she wakes up,"
secure life to the masses in India, regardless of
remarked Max, swinging his legs over the arm of
race or creed."
an overstuffed chair. "I hope you'll allow her
"Stout fella," cried Max. "I could envy you.
Unele Max to chip in."
Life is going to be a grand adventure for you.
"All contributions cheerfully accepted," re-
as an Indian, from now on."
turned Sunny. "You can even go with me to the
"I suppose there are adventures of the same
bazaar to buy her some clothes."
kind waiting for you back in America?" suggest-
"Do you know what to buy?"
ed Tara. "Or is everything perfect there?"
"Oh, just a yard or two of cotton cloth. I sup-
Max looked at him indignantly for a moment.
pose. for a little sari like the one I took off her.
then walked thoughtfully along the teeming river-
But in some gay color. And maybe a little pair
front of the fabulous city of Benares. For three
of earrings."
miles this riverfront is lined with glittering pal-
"Widows aren't supposed to wear jewelry."
aces and temples dedicated to all the gods of the
"That's exactly why I'm going to buy some,"
Hindu pantheon, and to many sacred animals.
returned Sunny firmly. "I don't approve of jew-
From the ghats pilgrims of all castes and out-
elry for babies ordinarily, at least not earrings,
casts bathe, for Mother Ganges takes all to her
but I'm going to buy her some, and bracelets, too,
bosom without distinction and is forever spirit-
that tinkle gaily on her arms . . . just to show
ually pure and uncontaminated. Physically, how-
what I think about all this widow stuff."
ever, the Ganges is far from hygienically pure.
"All zeal, Madame Easy," murmured her bro-
Half-burned corpses from the burning ghats and
ther. "I'm going to give her a nice brass mug of
refuse of all kinds float on the muddy waters in
Benares ware to drink her milk from."
which people afflicted by all kinds of diseases
"A silver mug. You can afford it."
from leprosy to tuberculosis bathe side by side.
Miracles of healing, both spiritual and physical,
"Okay, okay," yawned Max, stretching as he
certainly happen there, for the Hindus bathing
rose. "I'll get out of here while I'm still solvent.
in the holy stream are possessed of a burning
Seriously though, count me in on fifty per cent
faith.
of the expenses for our future doctor. Long
about college time she's going to cost us some-
The American Sunny, however, was possessed
thing, do you know it?"
at that moment with an equally burning indigna-
"Yes, and isn't it wonderful? She is going to
tion and zeal for reform, and she was glad when
they arrived at their hotel, away from the sights
be our little gift to India. Where's Tara?"
and sounds and smells she found so bewildering
"Haven't seen him since we came through the
and painful. The little girl slept peacefully, seem-
lobby downstairs."
ing to sense that she was in loving arms. Sunny
"That sounds like his knock."
took off her wet white cotton sari, wrapped her
Tara came in full of news. "I've found a love-
in a dry shawl and laid her on her bed.
ly home for little Alitra. It's in a big garden and
"Now," she said practically, "I'm going to give
is run by a Hindu Maharani, who is a widow her-
all these things back to the man when he comes
self. The children all look happy and there is an
tomorrow."
excellent school attached. Of course, everything
She referred to the gleaming pieces of Benares
is free to them through the Maharani's philan-
brass work which a salesman had left for her
thropy, but the manageress said you were wel-
consideration. She put them all aside with those
come to pay for Alitra, if you wish."
she had decided not to buy. More reluctantly she
"Is that the baby's name?" asked Sunny, sur-
ifted the shimmering folds of a lovely Benares
prised.
scarf, woven of pure gold and silver threads.
"Yes, her father mentioned it. Didn't you
which she had meant to buy as a gift for her
hear him?" asked Tara.
mother.
"No, I was so mad at him I couldn't hear any-
"Mummy will understand," she murmured, as
thing but the blood beating in my own ears," con-
Page Forty-six
World Youth, April 1948

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.94)
H NDU WOMEN ON A BATHING GHAT BESIDE THE GANGES AI BENARES
fessed Sunny. "But what a lovely name. Alitra.
sari with a gold border, with your bracelets tink-
All right. little darling." she bent to kiss the pale
ling and your earrings twinkling and be the mer-
face. "when we have to leave Benares you shall
riest little widow in the place."
enter the kindergarten of the school in a rose red
Photos—Sad Bros. Benares
World Youth. April 194s
Pu Frt-seren

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
INFORMATION QUIZ
YOU CAN ANSWER THE QUESTIONS ON THIS PAGE IF YOU HAVE READ THIS COPY OF
WORLD YOUTH
1. Name a modern city on the Arctic Circle.
2. Name two rivers in Finland.
3. What is the capital of Finland?
4. What parts of Finland have been ceded to Russia?
What is Finland's greatest source of wealth?
6. Name a famous architect of Finland.
7. Where is Uxmal?
8. What is the "Fateful Uudz Katun"?
9. Describe the Nunnery at Uxmal.
10. Where is Lake Peten?
11. How old is the Xiu family of Uxmal?
12. Where is Benares?
13. Why is Benares so beloved by Hindus?
14. Who is Dr. Ambedkar?
15. Why was the Sarda Act passed in India?
16. What food do raccoons enjoy?
17. Describe some of the habits of raccoons.
18.
What is air?
19.
How does sun affect air?
20.
What else affects air?
Page Forty-eight
World Youth. April 1948

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.94)
7048
In reply refer to
OB
My dear iss Smiley:
894.91
This is in reply to your letter of April 20, 1948 requesting in
formation concerning the ciroulation of your magasine, World Youth, in
Japan.
The circulation of foreign magasines is permitted in Japan, but all
publications must first be submitted for approval to the Civil Information
7
and Education Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan. At present, magasines cannot be sold to
the Japanese people for dollars, owing to the diffioult economio situation
1
which requires the Japanese to conserve their dollars for only the most
2
essential raw materials. Of course, you are free to offer it to the Civil
048
Information and Education Section as a gift.
United States Govermment funds are available for subsoriptions to
certain magazines in this country for distribution to the information
centers throughout Japan. If you choose this mothod, you should write to
Mr. George Finney, Reorientation Branoh, Department of the Army,
Washington 25, D.C. Mr. Finney advises, however, that most of the funds
are already tied up in outstanding subsoriptions to various publications.
Nevertheless, there is a possibility that they might be able to add your
magazine to their subscription list.
CS/A
Sincerely yours,
Ran
Roswell H. Whitman
Aoting Chief
Division of Occupied Areas
69
Economic Affairs
CMBiss Carolyn D. Smiley,
MAY
El Quito Road,
Los Gatos, California.
uc
Adi
OE:WSMoCornick:bcb
5/3/48
