894.51611A Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Branch Banks Of Japan In Hawaii., January 8, 1941 (File 1238)
ID: 894.51611A-1238   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.51611a-financial-conditions-budget
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.90)
DECLASSIFIED
Executive Department - Cge. 12-1934
By WFO NARS, Date 5-16-1934

Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D.C.

January 8, 1941 AM 9 10

PERSONAL AND MEMORANDUM
MMERICATCINS MESSENGER
AND RECORDS

Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Junior
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D.C.

My dear Mr. Berle:

For your information, there is attached
hereto a memorandum dated January 8, 1941, concerning
the Yokohama Specie Bank of Yokohama, Japan,
and its branch located at Honolulu, Hawaii.

Sincerely yours,
J. C. Hoover

Enclosure

DECLASSIFIED
Executive Department - Cge. 12-1934
By WFO NARS, Date 5-16-1934

PERSONAL AND MEMORANDUM
MMERICATCINS MESSENGER
AND RECORDS

MER
SAYS1611A
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OF STATE
JAN 22 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

894.51611A/1
PS/GC

FILED
JAN 27 1941

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
January 8, 1941

MEMORANDUM

It has been ascertained from a confidential source that the Yokohama Specie Bank of Honolulu, which is a branch bank of the Yokohama Specie Bank of Yokohama, Japan, has been seeking a legal opinion on the following questions:

1. Would it be legal for the Yokohama Specie Bank to transfer notes or evidence of indebtedness held by the bank to the parent bank in Yokohama, Japan?

2. Would it be legal if the bank transferred collateral held as security for notes to the parent bank in Yokohama and retained the notes in the branch bank in Honolulu?

3. What effect, if any, would the borrower's consent have on the above two questions?

4. Could the depositors require the Yokohama Specie Bank to give its customers a certificate of deposit payable in Japan?

5. Regardless of the opinion as to the legality of questions 1 and 2, would the officers of the Yokohama Specie Bank in Honolulu be liable for prosecution under territorial laws for embezzlement if they sent the notes and evidence of indebtedness and collateral to the parent bank in Japan?

The legal opinion which was furnished to the Yokohama Specie Bank as a result of this query was that it would not be in violation of any of the territorial banking laws if the Yokohama Specie Bank in Honolulu transferred its notes or evidence of indebtedness to the parent bank in Japan, nor would it be illegal to transfer the collateral held for such indebtedness to the parent bank in Japan. The opinion as to question 3 was that the borrower's consent would not affect the issue one way or the other. The answer to question 4 was that the depositor could, of course, require certificates of deposit payable in Japan.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

While the legal opinion stated that any of the foregoing acts which the bank might commit might not be in violation of any of the territorial banking laws, yet the bank, if it should carry out the foregoing practices, would probably be placed in a receivership by the territorial bank examiner. The informant stated that if the territorial bank examiner made an examination of the Yokohama Specie Bank in Honolulu and found that the notes and evidence of indebtedness had been transferred to the parent bank in Japan, he would undoubtedly regard it as bad banking practice and apply for a receivership for the bank.

This may be an effort on the part of the Yokohama Specie Bank to place its assets under the control of the parent bank in Japan and out of the control of the Territory of Hawaii and the United States.

As a condition to doing business in Hawaii as a branch of the Yokohama Specie Bank of Yokohama, Japan, the territorial laws require that the bank place on deposit in safekeeping the sum of 2½ million dollars in United States Government Bonds. Officers of the local branch have approached the territorial bank examiners with a request that they be permitted to liquidate the bonds which have been placed in safekeeping as a condition to doing business in Hawaii, in the sum of 2½ million dollars, and to establish credit in that sum in the Bishop National Bank and the Bank of Hawaii by depositing the proceeds of the bonds, namely, 2½ million dollars, in these two banks. The territorial bank examiner has declined to accede to this request. This, obviously, is an attempt on the part of the local branch to convert the bonds into cash and place the cash in the local banks, which would be subject to immediate withdrawal and transfer to the parent bank of Japan.

It was further ascertained from the confidential source that the legal opinion rendered to the Yokohama Specie Bank in Honolulu was also transmitted to the branch banks of the Yokohama Specie Bank in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland, Seattle and New York.

It is thought that Japanese in the Hawaiian Islands are endeavoring to get their cash under the control of the Japanese Government by depositing their funds in the Yokohama Specie Bank and accepting certificates of deposit payable in Japan.
