894.6363 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Carbon. Graphite., Japan, Petroleum., January 7, 1935 - October 25, 1939 (File 1141), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.6363-1141-2   Pages: 517   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6363-mines-mining-concessions-5/894.6363%20Mines.%20Mining.%20Concessions.%2C%20Carbon.%20Graphite.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Petroleum.%2C%20January%207%2C%201935%20-%20October%2025%2C%201939%201141-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No
o despatch
No653 9.2936 
Meyer
"January 21, 1936
To: Reklawso New York
Referring to your telegram of Jen. 15 after friends we had
disoussion with Kurusu he consulted with Yoshino and has now
replied substantially as follows FIRST They greatly appre-
ciate your willingness make proposals on lines suggested and
they emphasize Gover ment does not wish drive foreign in-
terests from Japan but at the sane time cannot change law
SECOND Kurusu points out that elthough Janan legislation might
be said to set precedent of six months stock holding it elso
creates precedent for co..pensation to which principle Govern-
ment is now committed and is willing to consider proposals
from our side if we regard contemplated compensation is in-
adequate SToP This he considers alters situation and from
business standpoint should entitle Japan to prior considera-
tion so long as supplies for stock holding on ecual terms are
obtainable and while recognizing force of our argument that
general practice of stock holding might make it physically
impossible for industry to find supplies and thus defeat object
of Japan Government he indicated that Japanese Government must
take this risk and suggested that we on our part should safeguard
ourselves by introducing stipulation that we should be relieved
of stock holding obligation in the event of such contingency STOP
Kurusu also emnhasized that recent European developments while
justifying fears that Japan legislation might spread also were
serving to strengthen conviction of Military that stocks as pre-
soribed by Law must be accumulated against emergencies never-
theless Friends and we feel that Government still is prepared
to receive suggestion for obviating increasing stock holding
obligation whioch in turn would tend to make precedent of Japan
Law less objectionable but in view of Diet dissolved today and
not likely to be reconvened until early April Government has now
more time for negotiation and attitude likely to be stronger at
least for the time being.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
8 1938
112
To the imeriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
London.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
1nstruetiem Ne. 11l2 of February 4, 1956, and to previ-
ous eerrespemdemee in regard to the oil situation in
894.6363/246
Japam and, in conneotion therewith, encloses, fer the
information of the Chargé d'Affaires, a copy of despatch
Ne. 1655 of Jamuary 24, 1936, w1th 1ts enclosures, frem
the Ameriean Ambassador at Tokyo.
Imelosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
Ne. 1688,
Jammary 24, 1936,
with onolosures.
894.6565/246
M
-m.m./.
naus
FE:ROM:EJL
FE
1 1930.
sap
2/12/56

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
58
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 25, 1936.
me
Referenoe Tokyo's telegram No. 34
of February 24, 8 p.m., in regard to
the eil situation in Japan, which should
be read in its entirety, --
It would appear that the Japanese
authorities, although remaining adamant
in their refusal to change the law re-
quiring the storage of stocks equivalent
to six-months' supply, are nevertheless
making a serious effort to arrive at a
ecmpremise measure acceptable to the
foroign eil interests. In this conneo-
tiem partioular note should be made of
subseetion (e) of paragraph one.
Preparedness on the part of the
Japanese authorities to consider as
acceptable to them a certain number of
gallems of oil (equal to a six-months'
supply in the years 1954 or 1935)
rather than a flexible amount equal to
cme-half of the previous year's supply
is merely a face-saving device which in
the leng run may or may not be of ad-
vantage to the foreign oil interests.
As the New York office of the
Stamdard-Vacuum Oil Company has been
infermed of the developments outlined
in Tekyo's telegram under reference, no
getiom is at present required of the
Department.
ROM:ETI ROUD

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
59
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
11806
GRAY
FROM
Tokyo
6363
Dated February 24,1936
Rec'd 10:10 a. m.
C
2=
34, February 24,8 p. m.
Embassy's 12, January 15, 11 a. m., American o1l
interests in Japan.
One. Kurusu informed the mbassy on February 22
894.6363/247
yauheno
that the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry had just
called on him and had stated that: (a) It would be im-
possible to chane the law and regulations and conse-
quently the six months storage provisions would have to
stand.
(b). It might be feasible to place a maximum on
the amount of oil to be stored but any proposal to this
effect must come from the foreign oil interests. The
Vice lfinister could then discuss the proposition with the
military and other interests.
FILED
(c). The quotas for the second quarter of this year
must soon be considered and if the foreign companies
definitely and finally refuse to store six months stocks,
F/FG
it will be necessary to reduce their quotas.
(d) Mitsubishi

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
60
PS
2-No. 34, February 24, 8 p. m. from Tokyo
(a). Mitsubishi and Nippon Oil have applied for
permission to add to their refining facilities, probably
having in mind an eventual refusal of the foreign oil
interests to comply with the law and consequent reduc-
tion of their quotas. The Vice Minister is now holding
up these applications but will be compelled to grant
them if the foreign oil companies do not agree to carry
six months stocks.
(e). Therefore, the Vice Minister recommends that
the foreign oil interests present a concrete proposal
offering to store six months stocks under the following
or somewhat similar conditions: (one)-that six months of
1934 r 1935 be taken as the maximum storage requirement;
(two)-that adequate compensation be paid by the govern-
ment; (three)-that adequate guarantees of future business
be given.
(f). If the Vice Minister has some such proposal,
he can continue the present quotas, at least until June
30, 1936, and can refuse the applications for additional
、refining capacity, on the ground that the foreign oil
companies have not refused to comply with the law but on
the contrary have agreed to store the oil under cortain
conditions. The foreign oil companies objections to the
establishment

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
61
FS
3-No. 34, February 24, 8 p. m. from Tokyo
establishment of a precedent of six months storage will
be overcome by the fact thet they have agreed only to
store a fixed quantity in gallons and not half of their
previous year's sales.
Two. The local representatives of the foreign oil
interests have telegraphed the substance of the above
to their respective head offices, recommending that the
suggestion of the Vice Ministor be adopted and that some
scheme of government financing of the non-commercial
stocks be embodied in the concrete proposal.
WWC:CSB
GREW

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
山
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
DER
Conversation.
1936 FEB 26 PM byary 25, 1936.
Mr. Walter Teagle, president,
THE UNDER SECRETARY
Standard Oil Compeny of:New Jersey.
FEB 254936
cofice o Lmdom
Mr. Hornbeok.
and Jokyo
BEPARTMENT OF ATOTF
Subjeot: Japanese Petroleum Law.
Mr. Teagle called me on long distance telephone from
893.63
New York.He said that Socony-Vacuum had received a tele-
gram from its representative in Japan. He proceeded to
read me a text which covered in substance what is reported
1247
9
in paragraph one of Tokyo Embassy's telegram 34, February 24,
/248
8 p.m., to the Department. He said that he would send me
by mail a copy.
I said that we had received practioally the same thing
from our Embassy; and I inquired what Mr. Teagle thought of
it. Mr. Teagle replied that excent for the one point at
the outset, that the Japanese said it would be impossible
to ohange the law and regulations and that the six-months'
storage provisions therefore would have to stand, it all
FILED
I inquired whether the looal representatives of the oil
interests had made recommendations. Mr. Teagle then read
me another telegram in whieh the representative of the
American interests made a qualified recommendation; and
Mr. Teagle

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Mr. Teagle said that he would send me a copy of that
telegram also.
Mr. Teagle said that his people were trying to get
London on the telephone in order to talk the matter over
with the British oil interests.
There followed a brief disoussion, in the course of
which Mr. Teagle mentioned the possibility of agreeing
upon a fixed amount of oil to be stored, whioh amount would
remain constant even though the business might inorease,
in which case there would be a progressive reduction in
the ratio. I reaffirmed our hope that the interests will,
in whatever deoision they make, preserve a united front.
Mr. Teagle said that they must "hang together or be hanged
separately". I said that I felt that that was correot.
Mr. Teagle said that when they talked with London he would
let me know the upshot of their conversation.
Expressions of thanks were erohanged, and the conversa-
tion ended.
SKH
FR:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
March 6 1938
L  SA B LY
.1155
To the Ameriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Lendon.
894.6363/248
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
1mstruetiom No. 1152 ef Febrwary 18, 1936, and to prev1-
sus correspemdemse in regard to the cil situatiem in
Japem and, in commeetiom therewith, enelesss, for the
infermtiom of the Chargé d'Affaires, copies, as listed
beles, of menoranda of eonversations between representa-
tives ef the eeneerned Ameriean sil interests and am
effieer of the Department.
Enslesures:
Memerandun of
February 10, 1956;
1200
Memorandum of
February 17, 1936;
1201
Memorandum of
February 25, 1936.
1x48
894.6363/248
secuy
FE:RCM: EJL
FE
3/3/36
A

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.89)
FE
March 0 1936
SNMXIAL -- STAII USE CHLY
965
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Ambassader's
talegram Ne. 42 er February 27, 4 p.., and to previous
894.6363/248
eorrespeméemoe in regard to the ail situaties is Japen
and emeleses, for the informatiom of the Ambasseéer,
sepies, as listed belos, ef memerande of comversatiens
betmeen representatives of the eomeerned Ameriean eil
interests and an officer of the Departmemt.
Enelosures:
Memorandus of
February 10, 1936;
Memerandum of
February 17, 1956;
Memerandum of
February 25, 1936.
894.6363/248
rew
A
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
3/3/36
SKF
14
111

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
o
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
1-1800
GRAY
FROM
Tokyo
Dated February 27,1936
le
Rec'd 7:43 a. m.
Telaphoned to Mr. Dundas.
Secretary of State,
Division of
Itandand -Vaourm,
Washington.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Naww York
AFEB 2 7 1936
42, February 27, 4 p.
Departate
165
Department1s 4, January 8, 5 p. m., 1935.
Please transmit the following to Reklawso, New York.
894.6363
Mr. Duwodas statar
"Reklbowso" is their
suggested in London's telegram would be feasible from
point of view of being within letter of the netroleum
law but friends, we and both mbassies are of opinion
12
that it is impractical as a solution for following reasons:
49
(1). It would, if accopted, constitute a defeat
for the government of such magnitude that only the mini-
mum in guaranteos on futuro trading could bo expectod
and would most likely incito government to accelerato
FITED
refining; (2), governmont will strongly rosist any schen
F/FC
which doos not lond itsolf to application to Japanes
companios as woll as to foroign companios and sinco Japan-
G
oso companies havo already accumulated six months stocks
tho transfor of ownorship to govornment of thoir non-
commorcial

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
2-No. 42, February 27, 4 p. m. from Tokyo
commercial stocks and tankage would not only involve
unnecessary expense to government but also serve to
emphasize the submission of govemment to pressure
from foreign companies with consequent serious loss of
prestige. Friends, we and both Embassies are not at
all confident that government will consider any form
of Government financing and therefore we ourselves be-
lievo that any plan involving complete government finan-
cing of non-commercial stocks must in order to receive
government serious considoration be so designed as to con-
vince government of our carnest desire for practical
solution and at same timc permit minimum loss of face
to govornment which we believe nlan as per our tolegram
of February 18th offers. The above ropresents our
viows undor conditions obtaining prior to yesterday's
political incidont and as character of govornment of
immodiato futuro cannot yet bo forocastod with cortainty
wo cannot vonture an opinion as to whother or not our
problom will now bo intonsificd. Friends are tolegraph-
ing substantially tho same but are inclined to favor offor-
ing London schomo as first stop towards effecting com-
promise along lines our telegram February l8th but point-
ing out attendant risks. Meyer."
CSB
GREW

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
thre To
FE/RCM
Yebruary 27 1936
In reply refer to
FE 894.6568
Dear Mr. Dundas:
In further referenoe to your lotter of February 25,
1986, in regard to the oil situation in Japan, I enolose
894.6363/249
a copy of a telegram under date February 27 received by
the Department from the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo. You
will note that the Fmbassy's telegram contains the text
of a message signed "Meyer" to be transmitted by the
Department to "Roklawso", Now York.
Sinoerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeook,
Chief,
Division of Far astern Affairs.
Inolosure:
From mbassy Tokyo
No. 42, February 27, 4 p.m.
Mr. H. Dundas,
tandard-Vaouum Oil Compan,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
FE:H:EJL
FE
2/27/36

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated February 27,1936
Rec'd 7:43 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
42, February 27, 4 p. n.
Department's 4, January , 5 p. m., 1935.
Pleane transmit the following to Reklawso, New York.
"Referring to your telogram of Fooruary 24th, plan
suggested in Iondon's tele gram would be feasible from
point of view of being within lo'ter of the netroleum
law but friends, we and toth mbassies are of opinion
that it is impractical as a solution for following reasons:
(1). It would, if accepted, constitutc a defeat
for t e government of such magnitude that only the mini-
mum in guarantees on future trading could be expectod
and would vost likely incite government to accelerate
rofining; (2), government vill strongly resist any scheme
which loos not lond itself to application to Japanese
companies as well as to forcign companios and sinco Japan-
csc comnanies havo already accumulated six months stocks
tho transfor of ownorship to governmont of their non-
commorcial

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
2-No. 42, February 27, 4 p. m. from Tokyo
comnercial stocks and tankage would not only involve
unneces ary expense to government but also serve to
emphasize the submission of overnment to pressure
from foreign companies with consequent serious loss of
prestige. Friends, we and both Embassies are not at
all confident that governcent will consider any form
of Government financing and therefore we ourselves be-
lieve that any plan involving complete government finan-
cing of non-comnercial stocks must in order to receive
governnent serious congideration be so designed as to con-
vince government of our carnost dosire for practical
solution and at same time nernit minimum loss of face
to government which we believe lan as ner our telegram
of February 18th offers. The above reprosents our
viows undor conditions obtaining prior to yosterday's
political incidont and as character of government of
innodiato futuro cannot yet be forocasted with certainty
wo cannot venture an opinion as to whothor or not our
problom will now be intonsificd. Friends are tolegraph-
ing substantially the samc but anc inclined to favor offer-
ing London schemo as first stop towards effecting com-
promise along lines our telegram February l8th but point-
ing out attendant risks. Meyer."
CSB
GREW

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated February 27,1936
Rec'd 7:43 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
42, Fobruary 27, 4 p. .
Department's 4, January , 5 p. m., 1935.
Pleane transmit the following to Reklawso, New York.
" icferring to your teloran of Fooruary 24th, plan
suggested in London's tele ram would be feasible from
point of view of being within lo'ter or the netroleum
law but friends, we and toth mbassies are of opinion
that it is impractical as a solution for following reasons:
(1). It would, if accepted, constitute a defeat
for t e government of such magnitude that only the mini-
mum in guarantees on future trading could be expectod
and would post likely incito government to accelerate
rofining; (2), government vill strongly resist any scheme
which ioos not lond itself to application to Japanese
companics as well as to forcign companios and sinco Japan-
use comnanies have already accumulated six months stocks
tho transfur of ownorship to governmont of thoir non-
commorcial

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
2-No. 42, February 27, 4 n. m. from Tokyo
commercial stocks and tankage would not only involve
unneces ary expense to government but also serve to
emphasize the submission of tovemment to pressure
from foreign companies with consequent serious loss of
prestige. Friends, we and both Embassies are not at
all confident that governnent will consider any form
of Goverrment financin; and therefore we ourselves be-
lieve thas any plan involving coaplete government finan-
cing of non-comnercial stocks must in order to receive
government serious consicerati n be so designed as to con-
vince government of our carnest desire for practical
solution and at same ti . nerit minirum loss of face
to government which we bolieve  lan as ner our telegram
of February 18th offers. The above represents our
viovs undor conditions obtaining prior to yestorday's
political incidont and as character of government of
imnodiato futuro cannot yut be forccasted with cortainty
we cannot venture an opinion as to whother or not our
problem will now bo intonsifiud.
. Frionds are tolegraph-
ing substantially the same but ane inclined to favor offor-
ing London schomo as first stop towards effecting com-
promise along lines our telegram February 18th but point-
ing out attendant risks. Meyer."
CSB
GREW

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
18 1930
COSOFIOnA 
February 10, 1936.
copics 5
Londor an
Mr. P. W. Parker)
THE UNDEM SEGRETAKY
of Standard-Vaouum
Jolayo-
Mr. J. C. Goold ) Oil Company, New York.
EB 18 1936
250
Mr. Hornbeck
DEPARTMENT DE STATE
B1:1936
894.63
Subjeot: Oil Situation in Japan.
Eopartmenr of Stale
In New York, on Friday, February 7, I had a confer-
363
ence with Mr. Parker and Mr. Goold, at Mr. Parker's
request, in the course of whioh Mr. Parker gave me the
/2
papers here attached.
5
O
From these papers, and from what was said to me,
it is apparent that at the present stage there is a tendency
toward divergence of view, with regard to advisable course
for the oompanies to pursue, between the British interests
and the American interests. The view of the British inter-
ests is preoisely and definitely set forth in the four-page
memorandum dated January 18 and entitled "J A P A N". Put
briefly, the British interests want to present a stirf front
without making either threats or commitments of oonoessio
The American interests lean toward the idea of making a
oompromise with the Japanese Government and conoluding with
that Government an agreement. In the paper dated Febru-
ary 7 and entitled "M E M O R A N D U M", they give an
outline of the thought of the British interests and of
their own thought. This they bring to a conolusion with
the

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
一 2 -
the statement that they wish to take no steps which are
contrary to the interests of this country and they there-
fore seek the opinion and advice of the Seoretary of State
on two questions. Having read over these papers, I made
the observation that I assumed that we were disoussing
the whole situation informally and that the questions on
which the American interests sought opinion and advice
wore being put informally and might in due course be
answered informally. To this Mr. Parker and Mr. Goold
gave assent.
There followed a general discussion of the situation.
In the course of this disoussion I developed in particular
two points. First, that in our view (in the Department)
it is highly desirable that the four parties which are con-
fronted by the Japanese Petroleum Law and regulations
with greatest consequent conoern -- namely, the British
interests, the British Government, the American interests,
and the American Government -- persevere in the maintenance
of a united front: with the British Government and the
British interests in agreement, and with the American Gov-
ernment having already made representations to the Japanese
Government indicative of its.disapproval of the position
which the Japanese Government has taken with regard to the
matter, it will be unfortunate if the American interests
docided to follow one course, a course of compromise, and
the British interests decided to follow another course,
that of "standing pat." Second, I developed the point that,

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
一 3 -
if the Japanese Government succeeded in driving a wedge
between the British interests and Government and the
Amerioan interests and Government, and if the American
idtyte oitn the ti
interests concluded an agreement with the Japanese Govern-
ment, the American interests would be taking a substantial
risk: they could by no means assume that an agreement thus
ooncluded, satisfactory though it might be to them when
concluded, would absolutely ensure their position; it would
be an agreement between two parties which are not equals,
an agreement not enforoeable in any court, an agreement which
one of the parties (the Japanese Government) could disregard
at its own option and convenienoe and which, in the light
of history, would probably be effective only so long as
the Japanese military authorities felt it to be in Japan's
interest for them to permit the carrying out of its pro-
visions.
Mr. Parker made the point that, as things exist, the
British and American interests will soon be in the position,
in Japan, of lawbreakers. I pointed out that there are
different kinds of breaches of law: there is such a thing
as a positive breach, and there is such a thing as a
negative breach. The Japanese law under consideration re-
quires that the companies assume certain unusual burdens
which the companies and their Governments respeotively and
colleotively feel are unwarranted and unreasonable; the
question of complianoe is a subjeot of current discussion;
failure to have complied by a certain date may put the
companies

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4-
companies in the position of being lawbreakers, but their
i1
breaches will be breaohes of a negative charaoter. It may
be presumed that none of the Governments ooncerned would
is nshcass
feel toward the companies as the said Governments would
feel if the companies were committing positive breaches of
law. I added, for precaution, that I was expressing
merely a personal opinion.
It was agreed that I would bring to Washington the
papers which Mr. Parker had handed to me and would study
the questions on which he sought opinion and advice and
would see what answer, if any, might be made thereto, it
boing understood that the answer, if made, would probably
be made informally.
The question asked reads as follows:
"Can it be construed as prejudicial to the
interests of this country under existing laws
or under the present policy of the Government,
if:-
"A. We adopt the policy proposed by our
British Friends which may involve deliberate
non-complianoe with the Japanese Law?
"or
"B. Comply in principle with the 6 months'
storage provision provided suitable compensation
and guarantees can be negotiated?"
Comment.
It is my opinion that the plan of aotion proposed by
the British interests is preferable to the alternative which
the American interests have under consideration. The British
interests have definitely declared their position and the
British

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.93)
-5 -
tate
British Government is in acoord therewith. I do not believe
that Japanese susoeptibilities will be outraged by the
"non-compliance with the Japanese Law" contemplated in the
British plan. The taking of a different position by the
Amorioan interests would weaken the position both of the
British and of the American interests, and that development
would play right into the hands of the Japanese Government.
It would not, in my opinion, in the long run ensure either
property or profits to the American interests.
I feel that we should advise the American interests,
informally and orally, that, although the decision must be
entirely theirs, we incline to believe that the course which
the British interests have declared their intention of
pursuing has more to commend it than any alternative course
with regard to whioh our opinion has been sought.
SKr
FE:SKH/ZMK
FR

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
BRIEF FOR DR. S.K.HORNBECK COVERING RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
IN JAPANESE CONTROL LAW
1241
Utanuard-Vocuum Oil Com any!: letter of  cceober .7,
Leeb, senuing state bepartment copy or Yokoha I  ble of the
same aste, is the lust comounicution to the  t te uep rtment
in connection with the Jpanese Control Liv. subse uent de-
velopments of importance re eaboci a in ile wi.ie, both
London frienus und st ndaca-Vacuum sent to fokonuna on J nu ry
15, as per copy attached. Copy of Yokohama's reyly of January
zl is also attached.
Since that time tt nd ru-Ve cuum nave leen in coaun-
icstion with London frienus, nd on Fetru ry o e ch has des-
patched indentical c bles, as per copy ett cheo.
This apparent change in views or the oil compenies
was brought about by the feeling of Louuon friene: that as a
matter of tactics it would be desirable to get some definite
proposition from the Japanese Govornment rathor then for the
oil companies to submit proposals, as indic ted would be done
in cable of January 15.
Furthermore, Stanaard-Vecuum have now received the
definite views of British frienus, in wuich they set forth
their contemplated action in the event an impasse is re: ched
with the Japanese Government. These vievs are incorporated
in friendst memorandum from London of J nuary 18, copy of
which is attached.
Our Eritish friends :dvise us that this
memorandum was prepared after full discussion with the British
Foreign Office and that the policies set forth in the memoran-
dum have the approval of the British Government.
For ready reference copy of Five Point Memorandum
attached.
February 7, 1336.
PWP:H
Enc

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
MBMQBAIRUM
February 7, 1986.
Our British Friends propose to agree to carry three
months' stoeks only ir the Japanese Government modiries the
regulatioms and pledges itselr to the following conditions:
1. For Qasoline è minimum of l935 business plus partieipe-
tiom in at least one third of the natural inerease in
semsemption. For other produets suoh as Kerosene, Fuel
and Diesel Oil, partieipation on the basis of the per-
semtage of total trade enjoyed by the two foreign com-
panies during the year 1985.
2. Mo diseriminetion as between Japanese and foreign com-
panies.
S. Assuranees that both the ourrent priee to the publie
and the priee at whieh the Govermment might take over
stoeke in an mergeney would be a fair price based on
world market priee.
6. Assuranees that the Law will be admimistered on the besis
of the foregoing conditions for at least ten years.
The megotiations so far in Japen have given us reason
to hope that the Japanese Govermment might mest most of these son-
ditioms if we provide six months' storage. As eompensatiom for pro-
viding storage in exeess of three mont hs, the Japanese have shown
imeieatioms of beins willing to provide perhmps 6% interest per
ammwe on the extre investment required for both tankage and stooks
above three menthe, with an allowanee for leekage and evaperation,
but without any previsiom for emortisation or return of eapital
outlay.
Our British Priends say they ave definitely desided to
refuse to psevide cepital for stoeks abeve that correspendins to
theee memthe' besiness, regardless of exy compensetiem in the fesm

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
imterest and allewanees.
In the evemt an impesse is reached, they propose to
continue doing business in Japan in a sonditiom of non-compliamee with
the Japanese Petroloum Control Law, by continuously cutting down their
stoeks to acsord with purely sommereial requirements, corresponding to
whatever redueed quota of business is granted them by the Japanese
Government. Their view is tat this will throw the onus of action
to prevent their company doing business in Japan upon the Japanese
Gevermment.
The 'apanese Govermment in sueh event may take one of
several courses of aetion, but their most probable polaey in our
opimion would be to reduee the volume of business allowed to be done
in the country by any non-eomplying company as rapidly an they ean
fimd depéndable sourees of supply from other compenies, and arrange
for satisfaetory distribution thereof within the country. Companies
in Japan doing more than half of the volume in the country have al-
ready eemplied with the storage requirements of the Lew, ineluding
ome eempamy in whish an American corporation has a 50% interest.
We wish to take no steps whieh are contrary to the in-
terests of this country and therefore seek the opinion and adviee
of the Seeretary of state on the following questions:-
CAM it be comstrued as prejudieial to the interests
of this comntry under existing laws or under the
presemt peliey of the Covermmont, if:-
We adopt the peliey proposed by our British Priends
a
whieh may imvelve deliberate mon-eemplianee with the
Japanese Law?
ou
Camply ia prineiple with the 6 monthe' storace previsien
previded puitable compeasation and guaraatess cen be ne-
gotleted?

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.84)
i
OUTGOING CABLEGRAM
SVOC
sJoCo
TO
DATE
NO
HYLFIER
Ree
1.0

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.84)
OUTGOING CABLEGRAM
OMSI
TO
DATE
~.C
Li

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.76)
0
ZOO (S()
NEW YORK
FANT LI-FATE I
JAN 21/36
Rofer to u alo
Fnr
usu he cornlrea i
C01
owe: 
terebte from Jare
od out that1tho
10
6 menthe utochiol
7
ciple Govemert1 no.
our wide if we etid
con iders ced
Janu to prio. ie
terme are obtainale 
pctice ool
1

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.79)
U
YOKOHAMA
FART II-PAGE
NEW YURK
JAN 21/36
en :- 1udiet ted Jonen-
find supply-e and lrs cerea c in of r
ese Covernmen!taket
safecuard cu: e1. 1.
fromtocklolaiu
emphacizesd l. t
t aan lol.
1.
(of) millly
7.
こ t
emerny.
1~
ceceive cnce dons to.
ir
tum vna ve '
1:11.
17
Hev or Dies at. col
April overir
trencor at lot or ine

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.82)
OUTGOING CABLEGRAM
NEW YOROK
YOKOA - S VOCO.
1
DATE
FB 5/36
NO
TIME SENT
ONFMOVLETTER
Referrin
wit. iave ()
ereei
con te do
22
ciple corrra
el
onl
01(:C11
othe
1000

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.84)
0
OUTGOING CABLEGRAM
NEW YORK
YOKOAMA
PAGE
F 3/36
DATE
NO
TIME SENT
CONFMU
BY LETTER
conviction.E oili
but these e
fide tracers is
stocks(STOP) Ve1
and to roali 
reotricted
0021
(STOP) Al e eter
orinio. ad pe ito vol
PP
7157
intere
of peali
 (SJCF)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.87)
0
CUTGOING CABLEGRAM
OM
FE7 YORK
YOKOAMA
PAGE
TO
FE3 3/36
DATE
NO.
TIME SENT
CONFMO. BY LETTER
wdch wouls 
coueulocsio
1
to endeo 
111
110

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
J nu ry 13, 1936
JAPAN
We note that friends are pressing for our views
as to what should be done in case our hopes of settlements
along the lines of the 5 point Memorandum are not realized.
First of all we want to say very definitely
that we ourselves ti ink it is a mistake at tnis stage to
endeavour to formulate a plan of campaign based on such
a future happening, as there always may be circumstances
then that we do not realise now, and we would much prefer
tc continue at present with ne ain cnl: in view, and that
is sui table modification of the Law on the lines of the
5-Points Memorandum.
Nonetheless we have attempted to visualise
what might happen if all our efforts are unsuccessful.
Here are the possibilities as we see them:-
(1)
Compliance with the Petroleum Law subject to any
modification that we can secure.
(2)
A face-saving device whereby tie capanese Government
get the stocks they want in the country without
expense or obligation to ourselves.
(3)
To adopt a purely passive attitude; to go on trading
so long as, and to the extent that, we are allowed
to trade without complying wi th the Law.
(4)
Definitely to withdraw from the country, coupled
perhaps with arrangements for c.i.f. supplies under
long term contracts.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
2
aling with these four heads we have the following remarks
to mako:
(1)
We have made up our minds that we will not comply
with the present Law, and we would fur ther point
out that we wculd certainly not agree to a
suggestion, which nes been thrown out by the
Japanese Government, that we mi-ht comply wi th
the Law by doing a very much smaller trade wnile
still maintaining our present scale of stocks in
the country. It is ur intention that if our quota
is cut down we will reduce our stocks to such
quantities as are reasonably necessary in our
opinion to carry on our then trade. In other words,
if our quota is cut we will correspondingly reduce
our stocks in the country to the present ratio of
storage to sales, namely 2/3 months, even if this
results in idle tankage.
From the above it is evident that in no
circumstances will we comply with the six-months'
stock provision, even if this means withdrawal from
Japan, and further we will not put war stocks
at our expense in any country.
In addition, even if we secure reasonable
modification of the Law concerning six-months'
stocks, we s till would never agree to maintaining
stocks wh ich the Government at all times has an
option to purchase at their price and which we

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
3
are constantly required to replenish.
(2)
If it were possible that the Japanese Government
as a face-saving device should arrange for a
Japanese Company to rinance the addi tional tankage
necessary and the additional stocks required under
the Law, we  ight be prepared to be a seller of
products to such Coipany on purely conmercial lines.
We would not, however, be parties to any arrangement
under which we would be fcrced suppliers at this
Company's or a t the option of the Japenese Government.
Moreover, this does not mean that we will enter into
any partnership with Japanese interests to w ich we
are opposed.
(3)
It is hardly necessary to elaborate this point, but
we wish to make it clear that our idea here is to
throw the whole onus cn to ti.e apanese Government
to decide the extent of our withdrawal and the rate
of our withdrawal. Realising, as we do, that we may
not find ready buyers for our properties in Japan, we
feel that we s hould continue to trade so long as we
are allowed and to the extent that we are allowed, as,
in our opinion, we are not likely to be driven
hurriedly frm the market since, in our view, the
Japanese Government and the Japanese public would
require considerable time to develop other methods
of supplying the country and an organisation for
distributing in replacement of ours.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
(4)
From (3) above we have made it clear that it is not
our intention, should the Japanese Government refuse
to modify the present Law, to tell them that we will
trade no longer in Japan and immediately withdraw.
It is, of course, always possible tnat in the end we
may be forced to witndraw entirely, and then and at
that time the uestion of c.i.f. sales will arise,
but it is hardly necessary to consider the point now.
We might make it clear, however, tiat in our view
c.i.f. business carries no goodwill and that it is
always open to the lowest bidder.
26
(2)
m

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.82)
March 16 1938
1170
to the mseieen chargé e'affaires ad interin,
Leméen.
894.6365/250
The Sesretary of stete refers to pereviems eorrespent-
 6,00, , o the 
the chnsgs a'asraires, ceptes of the pepese refersed to
n the fist peeeph of the  of tion
0,,
A true copy of
the sign

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
-1-
JAPAN PETROLEUM CONTROL LAW
Ootober lst 1955
When the Direeters left Japan the following is an outlime of th
mderstanding reached in conneetion with the future business or the B.V.
Co. and the Rising Sun Petroleum Cc. at a meeting held on April 1sth,loss
to be shown to Foreign Ofrice by Neville April leth.
Answer
(1) 1955 Gallenage: The S.v.c. and the .S.P. Co. will
be granted as a minimum their l935 gallonage.
Yes
(2) Future Juotas: Government will make no coamitment ut
this time to either importers or Refiners for the
alloeation of the future natural inerease but it will
be divided fairly between Refiners and Importers.
¿uotas of gasoline to Importers after l935 will
include a minimum of 33-l/3%, but probably more of the
natural inerease. Chosen probably more.
Yes
Kerosene
present position
to be granted
Yes
Fuel Oil
to be disoussed.
(3) Stoek Holding: Stook-kecping obligati ns will be three
months, inoluding working stooks. To be arranged as
soon as pomsible but not later than Oct. lst, l935.
No expenditure for stoek-keeping until change made and
position legalized.
Yes
(4) Gasolime Priees: Domestic prices to be based on costs
and if present price shown to be unremunerative the
Department will sanotion an inorease and will not ob-
lige Cempanies to sell at a loss.
Yes
(5) Diserimimation: There will be no disorimination
against these Companies.
Yes
Gammst give smarentes of abers fer a definite peried ut

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
March 18 1936.
CONPIDKNTIAL - STAFF UBE ONLY
.972
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Tekyo.
The Secretary of State refers to previous correspemé-
894.6363/250
emee in regard to the oil situation in Japan and with
partieular referenee to the Department's instruetion No.
/248
965 of Marah 6, 1936, eneloses, for the imformmtion of
the Ambassador, copies of the papers referred to in the
first paragraph of the memorandum of conversation of
February 10, 1936, wh1oh memorandum formed one of the
enclosures to the Department's instruction under refor-
ance.
Enclosures:
Brief of February 7, 1936,
with memorandum of
February 7, 1936;
Cablegram from New York to
Yokohama, February 5, 1936;
Cablegram from Yokohama to
New York, January 21, 1936;
Memorandum of January 18, 1936;
Cablegram from New York to
Yokohama, January 15, 1936;
Memorandum of October 1, 1935.
894.6363/250
SE:ROM:COL
3/12/86

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 21, 1986.
Mr. Secretary:
I feel that you should have
kmowledge of the first two pages
and the last two pages of the
/251 and/250
group of papers here attached,
which relate to action taken in
connection with the Japanese
Petroleum Law.
SKB 26 1936
NOTED
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
Zihe
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 261936
3
ARTMENT OF STATI
State
Fobruary 17, 1096.
1936 B 27 AM 9 20
Ma
Conversation?
894.6363
cosies o Loada
and Jreyo
/248
FEB 26 1936
Subjeot: Oil situation in Japan.
NOTED
Mr. Parker, by means of a telephone call from New
894.6363/25
York, referred to his conversation with Mr. Hornbeok on
February 7 (see FE's memorandum of February 10, 1936) in
regard to the oil situation in Japan and inquired whether
Mr. Hornbeck was in position to reply to the two ques-
tions set forth in the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company's
memorandum of February 7 (copy, together with other
papers, handed to Mr. Hornbeck in the course of the
above-mentioned conversation) and repeated on page 4 of
FE's memorandum of February 10.
Mr. Hornbeck then gave as an informal reply the sub-
stance of that portion of FE's memorandum of February 10
FILED
(see pages 4 and 5) which appears under the heading "Com-
ment".
Mr. Parker said that he hoped to be able to keep the
discussion of this phase of the company's difficulties on
a purely informal basis but inquired whether the Depart-
ment, in the event that a formal statement of its views
should

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
should seem desirable, would be prepared to make such a
statement.
Mr. Hornbeck replied by expressing the opinion that
the Department would not wish to state formally and in
writing its views in regard to the subject under disous-
sion whioh is one for consideration and decision by the
concerned companies. At this point Mr. Hornbeck again
stressed the desirability of the American and British oil
interests continuing to present a united front to the
Japanesé Government and of endeavoring to avoid any seri-
ous eleavage of opinion between the two interests which
might enable the Japanese Government to play one against
the other.
Mr. Hornbeok inquired whether Mr. Teagle planned to
be in Washington within the near future. Mr. Parker re-
plied that he did not know. Mr. Hornbeck said that at
the time of the inception of the oil difficulties in
Japan he had disoussed the situation with Mr. Teagle and
that beeause of this and of other faotors he had of late
hoped that an opportunity might be found for a further
oral disoussion of the matter. Mr. Hornbeok added, how-
ever, that he did not wish Mr. Teagle to make a special
trip to Washington in order to make possible such a dis-
cussion.
4
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
DOR
FE
ROOM 1411
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
February 25, 1936.
RECEVEO
FLB 27 1936
Japanese Control Law
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
ackd
1934
Department of State,
26
Washington, D.C.
4
nev
Department of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6363/25
As promised by Mr. Teagle during 'phone coaersa-
tion today, ani in order to keep you up-to-date with our situation
in Japan, I attach herewith co of a cablegrem which was sent
by our London friends to their manager on the 24th inst. I also
enclose copy of cable received yesterday from Yokohama. This
latter cable has evidently crossed the first one in transmission.
Our representatives in Japan have been advised that no reply will
be sent to the one received from Yokohama until an answer is
received from our people in Japen to the one sent to them yesterday.
5
2
In talking with London over the 'phone today, we
are advised that the attached message received from Japon has been
favorably commented on by our friends, but that they will defer
any specific comments and proposals ponding receipt of the reply
from Japan and also conversations with the Foreign Office in
respect to a precedent being established in Japan that may be
followed by other countries.
Yours sincerely,
HD/ED
Enc.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY OF CABLEGRAM TO YOKOHAMA
LONDON, FEB. 24, 1936.
Referring to your telegram 18th this month we feel very strongly that as the whole
issue is not directly between head offices of the oil companies and the Japanese
Government it would be very unwise for you to make definite suggestion-s even
though you emphasize that they were merely local FULusToP What we want is mome
clear cut proposal from the Japanese Government on which we can give decision here
FULLSTOP For your private information only and also to enable us to have your
opinion and the opinion-s of friend-s representative-s we might be prepared to
consider a scheme which in fact would be as advantageous to the Japanese Government
as the scheme-s outlined in your cable of Feb. l8th but being turned round the other
way would be much less obnoxious to us from the world wide point of view FULLSTOP
We would emphasize that one main objection to our complying with the petroleum law-s
is the precedent such compliance would set to other government-s FULLSTOP
e
therefore tentatively suggest a scheme might be devised whereby the Government
themselves financed and owned for the time being extra tankage end extra stock-s
necessary to comply with the law on some modified cuantitative basis as now en-
visaged and that these tanks be erected on or neighboring to oil company-ies
property-ies so that we could look after stock-s etc. for the government and so
that the government could give us right to purchase from them tanks and stock-s in
whole or in part as increasing trade should make them commercially useful to us
FULLSTOP For such right we might be prepared to pay an annual sum equivalent to a
low rate of interest on the loan proposition put forward by you but this would not
be called interest and it would not be dangerous as a precedent for the rest of the
world seeing that the non commercial stock and storage would be provided (for) by the
government FULLSTOP It is needless to say that this proposal would have the added
merit providing an incentive to the Japanese Government to give us the largestpossible
quotas in order to recover their capital as soon as possible SToP If storage were
built in locality-ies satisfactory to us in connection with our present business we

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the obligation-s to absorb such storage before erecting and new facilities
own and also to supervise erection if Government so desired FULLSTOP Please
cuss with friend-s representative-s and give us your views on such proposal-s but
on no account make any suggestion-s concerning same to the Government at present
FULLSTOP Your telegram Feb. 24th received since writing the above but we will
not reply until we receive your answer to this present telegram of ours.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
0
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
YOKOHAMA
ANBLE BY ALEBY
to
NEW
YORK
PAGE 1
ANS'D BY
CETTER
DATE
FB 24/36
NO
REC'D
Larmen
DISTR D
Rofer to our telegram of Teb. loth K nov has comnnicated to friends and us
yoshino
through U.S. Embassy followi messt e fro Y LESSAGE BEGINS One Thet i  would
be impossiblo to chen,e law und re ulation  to co form wit  the wishes of the
foreign oil interests and consecuently the 6 no ths storage provision would have
to stand Two The plan-s of nlecing a nacimun on the tmount s of oil stornre
misht be feasible ut Y i.nself cannot (will not) unlertake to rropose it and
proposition must cone fron the forei n side after which y can discuss the matter
with the Military and other-s interested Tiree The Ministry of Cormerce und In.
dustry must soon consider cuota-s for quarter he inin April 1936 nd if the
foreim oil company-s definitely and finally refuse to put in 6 nonths stock-s
the inistry will be compellod to reduce their quotas Four Probably having in
mind eventual refusal-s of forein company s to comply-iiv: with law and conseq
uently reduotion-s of their quota s itsubushi Goshi Kaisha and Nippon Oil Co

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
0
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
M YOKOHAMA
CABLE
ANS D BY
TONWYORK
PACE 2
LETTER
ANS'D BY
DATE
NO
REC'D
DISTR'D
FEB 24/36
have applied to extend refining facilities hut Y is holdins up applioation-s in
viow of understandin  iven Directors that e iners vould be iven only suffi-
ciont of natural increase (to! retire (fron) exi: tin, idle refininy: capacity if
however forein company-s cefinitely refuse to put in 6 nonths storage Y will be
compolled to grant application-s Five Therefore  deslres foreim company-s to
present a conerete proporal (to o fer-in. to ut in o nonthe stock under the
following ur somewhat similar conditions A   at the 6 months stock-s say using
1934 or 1935 as the basis he made the maximun  That : cequate compensation be
paid by Governnent C That adequate  uarantec (of/for) future husiness be given
STop If Y has some such pruyosai he can continue the present quota-s at Least
until June 3)th 1936 and can refuse the aplications of the ci1 corpanies for
additional refinin: capacity on the round that forein companies have not re-
fused to store 6 nonths stocks (of) oil but on the contrary are willine to ster

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.94)
0
G:A1
YOKOHAMA
NEW YORK
PACE 3
JATE
FB 24/36
the oil under certain conditions STop The foreign corpanys cbjection to
ostablishing prececent of 6 nonths storare will be overcome by the fi ct that 1t
is fixed quantity in ,allons which the: are storiny: not one h If of previous
years imports MESSAGE EDS sTOP For your uidance friends und we believe fore
going message to be result of meetin: reported eld February 2lst between Army
Navy Commerce overseas Departnent s  atural Rescurco-s uret u tnd if you
are prepared to consider conpronise aIon the lines suggested friends nd we
aro of the opinion it is inacvisable by vaitin lon er to incur risl of Government
official-s approving and recogmizin,, addi tional idle refinin, capacity therefore
we suggest we should now make sone concrete roposal-s (to) enbody-s-ing ed 1.
some scheme-s (of/for) roverrnent financin, cinshin cuantity s (of) non
commercial stock-s as sugrested in our vele ran of February t8th stop In re ard
to quantitative maximun we believe overrient as  nind current obllgetion s

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.92)
0
OKOHAMA
NEW YORK
PAGE 4
FEB 24/36
that 1s one half (of) imports durin, July year 1934 June year 1935 but we
suggest that you propose cuantit -s e al to  e half (of) year 1934 inport-s
expreesed 1 kilo litesvit oul
rencethsop Friendre tele
graphing similarly to London

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
FE/ShH
February 27 1936
Dear Mr. Dumdas:
The receipt is acknowledged with thanks of your
894.6363/25
lotter of February 25, 1936, and of the enolosures
thereto, in regard to reoent developments in the oil
situation in Japan.
As stated by me to Mr. Teagle in the oourse of our
conversation by telephone on February 25, the informa-
tion in regard to the recent conversation between repre-
2
sentatives of the American Fmbassy and the Japanese
Foreign Offioe as set forth in the cablegram of Febru-
ary 24 recoived by the Standard-Vaouum O1l Company from
1ts Yokohama offioe 1s substantially 1n acoord with
that contained in the mbassy's telegram of February 24
addressed to the De urtment.
Sincerely yours,
 27 1936.
tanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far astern Affairs.
Mr. H. Dundas,
Standard-Vaouwn Oil Company,
26 roadway,
New York, New York.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
2/26/36

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
#1642
894.00 P.R./97
FOR
SEE
894.6363/253
Japan
Grew
.) DATED  Jan 18.1936.
FROM
1-1137
NAME
TO
REGARDING:
American Oil Interests in Japan. Status of negctiat ions
between the Japanese Government and the oil interests
3
as to the storage requirements of the Petroleum Industry
Lew.
b
894.6363
253

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
(b)
American Oil Interests in Janan.
On December leth the foreign oil comanies addressed
a letter to the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry
stating that they could not undertake any extra canital
exvenditure in connection wit.: the storace requirements of
the Fetroleum Industry Law beyond that envisa ed in the
five-point memorandum arreed to in A ril, 1935, and that
the companies would be willin to trade on some terms their
hydrogenation process for a confii.tion of the five-point
menorandum.
Department's telegram 121 of December 5, 1935, and
Embassy's telegran 233 of Decenber 7, 1935.
**
Embassy's telegran 235 of Dece. ber 10, 1935.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
memorandum.* A renly was received from the Minister of
Commerce and Industry on December 23 by the local
representatives of the tandard and Shell interests to
the effect that the stock-hee in re uirements of the law
could not be chan ed; t t the five-ycint me lorendum was
the result of private coaversations and wes .ot bindine;
that penalties such as the reduction of uotis vould result
from non-commliance wit. the rovisicns of ti law; and
that the hydrogenation rocess had no connection with the
enforcement of the stock-keenin obli tion.**
In a talk
had by ir. Dickover of this Embassy on Deceiber 27th with
Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Commercial sureau of the Forei n
Office, the latter said th t .e wise to brin about a
favorable solution of the controvers: ane thet he would
exnlore the possibility of securin ucrcntees from the
Japanese Goveriment of oil quotis and rices sufficient to
wariant the stora e of six nonths' stocks of oil by the
comnanies.***

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
62
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RB
A"portrorr of
FROM
this telogram must bo
closoly parep hrased bo-
fore being communicated
to enyone. (A)
Tokyo
lo
Dated March 9, 1936
Rec'd 7:46 a. m.
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secrctary of State
Telepam 
Toky?, Mnce 10'36
Washington.
894.6363/254
eus
(GRAY) Embassy's 34, Fobruary 24, 8 p. m.
One. Tho local ronresentatives of the Standard
and Shell intorosts have ruccivod telegrams from thoir
head offices proposing that the oil intorests will carry
indemnefication
fixod maximum quantities of oil with domnifidation and
guarantees of futuro business and provided that Japaneso
capital financc tho stock holding. Full dotails can be
obtainod from Standard Vacum Now York. Tho tologram
concludes: "We suggost that you have formal talk with
FILED
Kurumut and Yoshino in conjunction with both ombassics
to cploro tho forogoing". ( FD GRAY)
Twa Tho Embassy has nevor yet participatod
diroctly in tho oil nogotiations oxcept to introduco tho
spocial roquost for tho oil intorosts in Docombor 1934
and to transmit mossages from one side to the other. To
participate directly in the proposed conference would
imply
F/G

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
63
RB
-2-64, March 9, 5 p.n.from Tokyo
imply official sanotion of the proposed plan.
Three. The Embass will not (repeat not)
therefore participate in the conference unless instructed.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
64
TELEGRAM SENT
8-180
TO BE TRANSITED
CONFIDENTIAL CODR
AFTMENT OF STATE
oR
Washingion,
,10,,1056.
AMMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
ATION
30
Your'64,' March 9, 5 p.m.
Department has received from New York office of
Standard-Vacuum text of its cable to Japan of March 7.
894.6363
Based upon such information as is now available,
Department is of the opinion that the proposal outlined in
the company's cable under reference merits careful
consideration by the Japanese Government. Therefore,
although'concurring in your opinion that it would not
2
5
repeat not be advisable for Embassy to participate directly
4
that
in proposed confcrence, Department would suggest, unless
you perceive objection, you and your British colleague
orally and informally make known to appropriate'Japanese
officials the desire of the foreign oil interests to
present and discuss a plan designed to meet the needs of
both parties. You may also express the hope that there
will'flow from the negotiations under contemplation'a
solution of this problem which will prove mutually
satisfactory to all concerned.
Huel
894.6363/254
u
32
FE:RCM: EJL
FE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 14, 1936.
Reference Tokyo's despatch No. 1692
of February 20, 1936, in regard to the
oil situation in Japan, --
Except with regard to the liquefao-
tion of coal, mentioned below, the
Embassy's despatoh under reference sup-
plements but does not materially add to
the information imparted to the Depart-
ment by the New York office of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and by the
Embassy in its telegraphic reports.
With regard to the liquefaction of
coal, it would appear that experiments
conducted by the Japanese authorities
over a period of years have been suc-
cessful and that the South Manchuria
Railway is to be entrusted with the
task of using the process in actual
produotion. Aooording to the plan, a
plant is to be established at Fushun,
Manohuria, which is scheduled for com-
pletion in 1938 and which will have an
annual oil output of 20,000 metric tons.
The Japanese Navy will not only purchase
the ontire output of the plant but will
also

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
also subsidize the project. As it is
probable that the oil output will average
only 25 per cent of the coal used, the
projeot will not be commeroially profit-
able and "is being undertaken purely as a
matter of national policy".
No action required of the Department
other than the transmission to London of
a copy of the despatch under reference.
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
(eeam)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
4
Tokyo, February 20, 1936.
20 Lndon
No.1692.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
arch 17 195
do
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
C
(x10
MAR 10 1936
Departinent of State
12
S
12
C
DETE
894.6363/255
Moy lo.doatd
MAR1
pp4-5)
U3.
MAn
The
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894 6=./241
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1653, dated January 24, 1936, and to previous corres-
pondence on the subject of the difficulties being experienced
in Japan by the American and other foreign oil interests
since the promulgation of the Petroleum Industry Law, and
to report the following developments in the situation.
FILED
Conversations.
been proceeding steadily between Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the
Bureau
F/FG

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Orfice, and the
looal representatives of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
and the Rising Sun Oil Company, but as yet without any de-
finite result. On February 5, 1936, the two oil companies
1/
received identic telegrams from their head offices(enclosure 1),
stating that the oil interests appreciated the frank and
fair-minded way in which the discussions have progressed,
but pointing out that no concessions as yet made by the Japa-
nese Government have relieved the companies of the burden of
carrying six months' stocks, which they feel will cause them
to depart from their position as bona fide traders and will
create a dangerous precedent. They therefore asked the local
representatives of the oil companies, in consultation with
Mr. Kurusu, to endeavor to find some solution of the diffi-
culty either on the basis of the five-point memorandum of
last April, or in some other manner.
The message of the oil interests was conveyed to Mr.
Kurusu by the local representatives of the oil companies on
February 8, 1936. A memorandum of the conversation of that
2/
day is enclosed. After some discussion of what constituted
a"bona fide trader" and the effect of the stook-holding ob-
ligation upon the companies' position as bona fide traders,
Mr. Kurusu suggested that perhaps the objection to the stock-
holding obligation might be overcome if a "ceiling" were put
upon the amount of the stocks. Instead of keeping each year
stocks to the amount of one-half of the previous year's
imports, the amount to be carried could be fixed at one-half
of the imports of a certain year. As the trade increased, the
non-commercial part of the stocks would be gradually absorbed
into

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
into the commercial stooks, so that in the course of time
the companies would be carrying only the normal amount of
commercial stocks. Mr. Kurusu also expressed disappoint-
ment that the headquarters of the oil interests had not
presented any concrete proposals, in accordance with his
request of January 11 (see despatch No. 1653), but stated
that he would discuss the message of the oil interests with
Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry.
Mr. Kurusu also discussed the oil problem informally
with r. Dickover of the Embassy on several occasions. He
is obviously worried concerning the situation and is sin-
cerely endeavoring to find a solution which will satisfy
the militarists in their demand for emergency stocks of
oil while avoiding the necessity of placing an undue burden
upon the foreign oil companies. At one time he suggested
that it might be possible to interest Japanese capital in
some proposition of acting as storage agents for the foreign
oil companies. The foreign oil compenies would retain their
Japan business but their non-commerciel storage under the
law would be carried by Japanese interests, who would obtain
their interest and depreciation charges from the compensa-
tion which will be given by the Japanese Government. Upon
looking into this proposition, however, it was found that
the compensation allowed by the Government would be insuffi-
cient to pay interest and other cherges on the capital in-
volved. r. Dickover at one time suggested to Mr. Kurusu
that it might be feasible for the Government itself to
finance the extra stocks of oil by issuing to the companies
bonds to cover the costs involved, the properties to be
held by the companies until the bonds were liquidated, when
th

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
the Government would become the owner of the storage faci-
lities and the stocks of oil. Mr.Kurusu examined this plan,
but reported that the Finance Ministry was opposed to the
issuance of more bonds than absolutely necessary at the
present time. Mr. Kurusu is now concentrating on his plan
of putting a "ceiling" on the amount of the stocks, and
perhaps of specifying the amount to be carried in terms of
quantity(i.e., as so many gallons) rather than in terms of
time (i.e. as six months' stocks). He thought that this plan
would to some extent relieve the oil interests from the
danger of other countries copying the Japanese system. He
hopes that some such arrangement as this, with adequate
compensation and guarantees of future business at profitable
prices, will satisfy the oil companies. As yet, however,
he has not succeeded in formulating concrete proposals to
lay before the foreign oil interests.
Liquefaction of Coal.
It will be recalled that in December last the American
and British oil interests offered their patents for the
hydrogenation of coal to the Japanese Government in exchange
for a return to the program outlined in the five-point memo-
randum of last April, but that the Japanese authorities did
not show any marked enthusiasm in the project, claiming
that research in Japan had gone beyond the process offered
by the oil interests(see the memorandum of the conversation
of December 27, 1935, transmitted with the Embassy's despatoh
No. 1629, dated January 10, 1936). In January there was a
a meeting of experts from various interested Ministries at
May
Tokuyama,

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5-
Tokuyama, where the Naval Fuel Depot is located, to study
the results of the experiments on the liquefaction of coal
which have been conducted there for some years past. Ac-
cording to the NIKKAN SHOGYO SHIBUN (Daily Industrial News)
of February 15, 1936, the Minister for the Navy reported to
the Cabinet on February 14 that the experiments had been
successful and that it had been decided to entrust the South
Manchuria Railway with the task of using the process in
actual production. According to the plan, the South Man-
churia Railway is to establish a plant at Fushun, Manchuria,
with a capital of about Yen 15,000,000, to be completed in
Thry
1938. The production is to be 20,000 metric tons of oil
per annum. The Navy will purchase the entire output and
will also subsidize the undertaking. According to the news-
paper, however, the project will not be commercielly profi-
table and is being undertaken purely as a matter of national
policy. The process, it is claimed, will produce half as much
oil as the weight of the coal used for raw material, but as an
equal amount of coal must be used to manufacture the necessary
hydrogen, the actual production of oil will be only 25 per
cent of the coal used.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosurea: Gopy of telegram of February 5, 1936.
Memorandum of Conversation of February 8, l936.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No.
1692 of February 20, 1936 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
5th February, 1936.
CABLED MESSAGE RECEIVED WITH REFERENCE TO INTERVIEW WITH
MR. KURUSU on 21st JANUARY 1936.
We greatly appreciate the frankness with whioh the
discussions with Mr. Kurusu have been conducted as we are
anxious to meet the views of the Government wherever this
can be accomplished without departing from our position as
bona fide traders.
The principle of compensation demonstrates the Government's
fair-mindedness but does not really assist us because we are
still placed in a position which is not that of bona fide traders
by reason of the fact that we have to provide and finance emergenoy
stocks, together with the tankage and other plant required to
accommodate them. Neither should we be assisted by the suggested
safeguards, i.e. stipulations on our part that we should be re-
lieved of stock-holding obligations in the event of the prece-
dent of these obligations being followed by other countries,
because the damage would have been done before the suggested
remedies could be applied.
As regards Mr. Kurusu's point that recent developments
in Europe have served to strengthen the view of some people that
the stocks stipulated by the Law must be accumulated against
emergencies- we appreciate its soundness but the same arguments
show how hopeless our position as bona fide traders would be if
we were to try to undertake to finance such emergency stocks.
We would ask the Government to appreciate our world-wide position
and realize that our freedom of action as bona fide traders most
certainly would be restricted when it became known that we had
departed from a purely trading position and, apart from our
own views of the matter, we are strongly of the opinion that this
position would not be advantageous on their side.
Therefore while we greatly value the Government's assurance
that they do not wish to drive foreign interests from Japan
and while on our part we are most anxious to continue trading
in Japan, we sincerely trust that with the help of the Govern-
ment some means can be devised which will make these two ex-
pressions of opinion capable of realization: the Five Point
Memorandum was designed to that end and so far we have not been
able to suggest an alternative which would meet both points of
view. Therefore we should like you and Friends' representative
in consultation with Mr. Kurusu to try to find a solution either
by means of the Five Point Memorandum or in another manner.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No.1692 of February 20, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
NOTES OF MEETING AT FOREIGN OFFICE
on February 8th. 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. Kurusu (Chief of Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Office)
Messrs. Ely (R.S.P.Co.) and Meyer (S.V.O.C.)
Messrs Ely and Meyer said that they had received a
cabled message from their principals which they would like
to show Mr. Kurusu and discuss with him.
Mr. Kurusu then read through the attached paraphrase
of London's and New York's cable dated 5th February. He
commented that it was "rather vague" and professed not to
understand fully the argument that the Companies would not
be bona fide traders. Was it not bona fide trading if the
Companies were paid the cost of carrying additional stocks,
plus interest on the capital invested for that purpose?
Anyhow, to trade in a country one had to conform to the laws
of that country: in Japan the law prescribed that to be a
petroleum trader one had to carry certain stocks. Moreover
the Japanese Companies had financed and accumulated stocks
as prescribed: the foreign Companies were being asked to
do no more than the Japanese Companies and this was in accord-
ance with and not in any way contrary to the Treaties.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely pointed out that, even if they
received compensation as planned by the Government, plus a re-
turn on the investment, the Companies would still have to find
the money to supply and finance a large quantity of non-
commercial stocks: they were oil traders, not financiers,
and as such were not prepared to tie up such large sums-
which at the same time they might require for bona fide
trading - in investments on which they would not be free
to realize when they wished to do so. They had not claimed
that they were being asked to do more in Japan than the Japa-
nese Companies: both were being asked to bear a non-com-
mercial burden in respeot of their trade in Japan, but their
own situation was entirely different from that of the Japanese
Companies in that the latter's burden would remain only local
when similar obligations were imposed by other conntries,
whereas their own burden would be increased to an impossible
extont.
Mr. Kurusu commented that the Japanese Government could
not be expeoted to diotate to other Governments what they should
or should not do. Messrs. Ely and Meyer agreed, but suggested
that it would be possible and reasonable for the Japanese
Government to take into consideration the likely effects of
the precedent created by the stock-holding obligations of
the Japan Law, especially as London and New York had shown
how these effects might eventually defeat the Government's
fundamental objective.
近.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Kurusu then read through the message again and
said he was disappointed that it made no concrete proposal.
It referred to a solution by means of the Five Point Memo-
randum or "in another manner": did not London and New York
have some thing definite in mind? The Five Point Memo-
randum was of course not binding: it had been mede clear in
conversations with the Embassies and had been noted in writing
that a change in the Law could not be promised- and it had
been found impossible to make any change. Mr. Kurusu did not
see why London and New York could not make some other definite
proposal, say on the lines he had already suggested.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer said thet Mr. Kurusu had asked for
concrete proposals in conformation with the Law as it stood. It
seemed quite clear to them that on that basis London and New
York could not adduce any terms or conditions which would
overcome the important and far-reaching point which had been
brought out in their recent discussions with Mr. Kurusu. The
Five Point Memorandum had been designed to overcome that point:
if, as Mr. Kurusu had explained, the Law and Imperial Ordinance
could not be altered could not some other means be found to
achieve the intended effect of the Five Point Memorandum and to
dispose of the dangers which their Principals foresaw?
Mr. Kurusu said that he would have to discuss London's
and New York's message with Mr. Yoshino, but he went on imme-
diately to suggest that the whole situation would be changed
if a "ceiling" were put on the stock-holding obligation.
At present, according to the Law and Regulations, stocks
would have perpetually to increase. This in his opinion, as he
had already told Messrs. Ely and Meyer, was impracticable and
ridioulous. What the Government really wanted, he thought,
was to have in position a certain quantity of Oil rather than
any particular proportion of the annual consumption. He would
therefore like the Companies to think of the stock-holding
obligation in terms of gallons of Oil. The Imperial Ordinance
said that stocks were to be one-half of one year's imports:
suppose the year taken was l935; that would mean so many gallons...
Messrs. Ely and Meyer commented that that figure would
involve a large quantity of non-commercial stocks. Mr. Kurusu
agreed but said that for the present, with a comperatively
small and rapidly increasing consumption, Japan needed to have
in stock against emergencies a larger quantity of oil than
that represented by ordinary commercial stocks. Japan had only
about l40,000 motor cars. In other countries with many more cars
and muoh larger and more stationary offtakes ordinary com-
meroial stocks were quantitatively large and, moreover, in times
of emergency such more-developed countries could economize
in consumption and so create, as it were, additional stocks.
Japan could not do this and consequently tor the time being
was in a special position. Nevertheless, with a quantitative
maximum set on stock-holding and consumption goind up rapidly,
the non-commercial stocks now required would eisappear in a few
years - Mr. Kurusu did not know quite how many, but Messrs.
Ely and Meyer could work it out - and the additional tankage
involved would by then be needed for ordinary stocks and working.
MOs

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Messrs. Ely and Meyer said that, although they could
not estimate off-hand the exact period, they knew it would
take a long time for non-commercial stocks to disappear
in the way suggested by Mr. Kurusu and during that period
the Companies would be put in the position of not being
bona fide traders. There was also the risk that later on a
higher quantitative maximum might be demanded. Moreover if
consumption stopped inoreasing, the result envisaged by Mr.
Kurusu would never come about. Mr. Kurusu rejoined that
there was in his opinion little fear that consumption would
fail to go on inoreasing - and increasing rapidly - and he
intimated that the Companies could ask for some sort of
guarantee in regard to the ceiling to be put on stock-holding.
In regard to the Companies' position, he felt that in the cir-
cumstances which would be brought about by a quantitative
maximum it could not be contended that they were not bona fide
traders provided they received adequate compensation for
the amount of stock carried in excess of three months:and
he considered that, with adequate compensation and the guarantees
he had previously suggested, they ought to be prepared to
supply and finance temporarily a diminishing quantity of non-
commercial stocks.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer pointed out that, even in the
circumstances suggested, there was no getting away from the
fact that the Companies actually would be financing non-com-
mercial stocks for a period of years and this would still
create a dangerous precedent. Mr. Kurusu expected the
offtake in Japan to continue to increase rapidly: therefore
could not the quantitative level desired by the Government
be achieved by the inorease in commercial stocks?
Mr. Kurusu said that the Government could not risk
waiting for commercial stocks to increase to the quantity
desired. He had explained the special position in whioh Japan
was placed and he felt that what Japan wanted could be justified
from the point of view of the actual quantity of oil involved.
In the countries likely to want to copy Japan consumption and
ordinary stocks were, he thought, quantitatively large and,
as he had pointed out, they could be utilized more effeotively
in time of emergency. He felt therefore that the Companies
would be able to resist the introduction by such countries
of obligations involving non-commercial stocks: in fact, if the
quantity of Oil involved was taken into consideration, no
dangerous precedent was being created by Japan.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer agreed that Mr. Kurusu's
"quantitative" point might hold good in some instances but
it was in their opinion most unlikely that it could be used
by the Companies to prevent other countries following the
example set by the Japan Law. Even if they were made appli-
cable to l935, the very words "one half of one year's imports"
were a dangerous precedent and, if they could not be altered,
could not the Government itselr finance the diminishing
quentity of non-commercial stooks which would be temporarily
required and so obviate the precedent to which the Companies
objected and the far-reaching dangers which they foresaw?

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Kurusu said this definitely could not be done
and he concluded the interview by stating that what he
had suggested was his own idea. He would have to disouss
the Direotors' message with Mr. Yoshino and he did not know
'what the latter would have to say. There was still the al-
ternative solution that the Companies should cut down
their trade so that they could carry the stocks required
by the Government in their existing tankage. Messrs. Ely
and Meyer emphasized that this would be no solution as it
would still involve carrying non-commercial stocks. Mr.
Kurusu admitted the point and said he had thought of a
reduction in trade rather from the point of view that it
would obviate further capital expenditure on the part of the
Companies.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.92)
March 17 1936.
TYAL  STAVL BE CLY
50. 1172
the Amariean Chargé d'affaires ad interim,
Leaden.
The Beeretary of State refers to the Department's
894.6363/255
1nstruetiom No. 1170 or Maroh 16, 1956, and to previeus
eerrespemdemee in regard to the oil situation in Japem
and eneleses, for the information of the Chargé d'Affaires,
a eepy of despatoh No. 1692 of February 20, 1986, to-
sether with its enolosures, from the Americen Ambassador
at Tokyo.
Enelosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1692, February 20,
1956, with enelosures.
894.6363/255
MAB 11936.
CR
u
FE:RCM: JL
FF
3/18/36

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
DER
FE
7
ROOM 1411
NECE VEL
26 BROADWAY
COARTMEN OF STAT
NEW YORK
March 9, 1936.
19361R  AN 9 25
894.6363
Litty m uply
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbech, Chief,
FAR LASTLHN AFFAIRS
man 10'36
Division of Far Jastern Affairs,
MAR 1L1936
P.
Department of State,
Weshington, D. C.
Departnent of Stat
01938
Dear Dr. Hornbech:
Since our receirt of the message from Yokohama
which was vindly trensmitted through your Departwent to us,
we have received one more cat le fron Japen on March 4th, a
copy of which I attach herewith. Follcwing receipt of this
latter ceble, we hove had several convere ati ns teci  nd
forth with our London friends. As a rezult of thee con-
versations end in reply to Mr. Yoshine's mes  e contained
in the cable reccived on February 7th, London frienis and
ourselves have sent a cable to our respective representatives
on Saturdey, March 7th, as follows:
894.6
"Since receipt of your cebles of February 24th end
?7th we have been giving constant study to Y's views
presented by K through Embassies. We are sympethetic
36
with difficulties involved changing law end regul: tions
to conform to wishes of the forcign oil comptnies.
From our standpoint nevertheless we are faced with
CN
compliance with similar legislation elsewhere in the
2
event thet we accede to Japancse wishes and therefore
our views already submitted must stand. Some fixed
5
quentitative maximum may be possible if indemnifict tion
9
and guarantees future business elong the lines of five
point memorandum proviaing the form is such that we can
accept and will not esteblish undesirable precedents
other countries. As to the form of meeting cost of
stockholding we have in mind possible method of compliance
with fixed cuantitative maximum through & new local storage
company independently owned and operated and finenced pre-
ferably by Government arrangement through banks or al-
ternatively Japanese public money carrying suitable
Governient guarantees such loensbonds or stocks being
gradually retired by foreign companies as the excess
petroleum stocks epproach equivalent of commerciel needs.
STOP Only connection foreign companies would have with
above new company would be contractuel obligetions for
retirement as above. Friends and we suggest you have a
F/F
formal talk with K and Y in conjunction with both Embassies
to explore foregoing method of financing and requesting that
they will continue to suspend full operecion present regula-
G
tions until this program is further developed between us."

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck.
March 9, 1936.
I confirm telephone conversation with you today
in regard to our cable to Yokohama quoted above. We would like
to have at least the moral support of the Embassy in Tokio in
presenting to Mr. Yoshino end Mr. Kurusu the substance of our
cable as above, and if you feel that it is necessery to send a
cable to the Embas sy suggesting tht support, we invite your
help provided of course that it is not inconsir tent with the
policy of the Department.
Yours sincerely,
HD/ED
Enc.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.80)
0
NOM
TOKOHAMA
AA.1
NEW YORK
IATE I
DATE
MAR 4/36
Rofor to our telegrums of Fel. ath Fel. t X i rivate conversttion vith Dick
verropeat s that if forei m conyany e co crete yro ccal s ure in the luands of
Commeroe Departnent orore next uarter oa  ep i et Co erce Derartront
an consider that coran ave () ooirel s edo co vith law
nd may rerain Fro ti co reforee  li ion s
of notive oil ccrrany foili
iop Even u it
might te possirle to recover lost e
olen
is found the rec io(o 
e t Gorent
in stronger barruininrosi
 iciss ioftir
our selli or unis1on
isirour
concrete rroro: al F shout
UP T
ront Preie
neoi

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.83)
0
INCOMING CARLEGRAN
YOKOHAMA
ANSLU
ABIE
NET YORK
PAGE
ANSUB
 MAR 4/36
NO
RECO
peoted in oil polioyince ll ele 
aiit
bootive however witl noe ilit ol co inii tine
wo y acconrlish: hll fici:
58
resistance Srop Neve tielo:si
entt
tannt s
on our part to i ose tes 
Ithouch ve are nov iclie 
to Government inancie.
us in disaus: ion-s cc eor'
developinoneccenl
eration concretero
would brin
quantity-s (of) toaks i exce. 
ludine ca i co: t

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
ANBLDE Y Y
TORORAA
YORK
PAGE 3
CNFTERY
4/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
trading profit-s eto. STop If Government show-s they are prepared in prin-
e to eonmider Two there might be opportunity (for) putting forward for tact-
Soal purposes only the proposal as per London's telegram Feb. 24th with less
si of unfavorable reaction STop For your information within past week appar-
mtly inspired (by) Commerce Department interest has been revived in merging
of selling crganizations (of) native oil company-s involving eventual pool-ing
of queta-s.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.82)
Mareh 10 1056
rekñewing eur convereetien by 'pheme of yesterday and
894.6363/256
In the eable dated Mareh 7 semt by you to your represamta-
sive la Japem sherein the suegestien is adveneed that fi-
plies of eál be arranged fer by the Japanese Gevermment.
Dased upem sueh infermation as is mew available to
St, the Degartment is of the epiniem that the sugpestion
méssr retesence merite earerul censideratien by the Japes
ty .
th,

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.87)
-8-
past presture, dotasled dssustene 
the Sogenese esthertties of egeetfie plame or pregesals
shoule be carried an by the representatives ef the eem-
cermed eil interests. Hewever, the Department, in 1ts
afesemsstiemed telegren, has susgested that the smeriean
Imhassy, in eenjumetien with the British mbassy, crally
and safesmally make mown to the appropriate Japanese of-
fieials the desire of the foreign oil interests to pre-
ment and diseuss a plan designed to meet the needs of
beth parties. The Department has also susgested, as a
further indieation of the contimuing interest and ecmeerm
of the Ameriean Govermsat, that the Eabassies, in the
esurse of their conversatien with the Japanese autheri-
ties, empress the hepe that there will be evolved frem
the megetiatiems mder sontempistion a selution of this
prshlem which will meet the requirements and wishes of
all emeermel.
sineerely yours,
SKH
Stenley X. Nernbeek,
Divisten of Far mstere Affairs.
A  copy d
The ihed origt
m.m.A.
FE

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.93)
山
山
ROOM 1411
26 BROADWAY
ARTMEN F STAT
NEW YORK
FE
1936 AR 12 PM 1
Divigion of
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS
March 11, 1956.
VSNOF
Petroleum Control Law
Department of State
wey
Japan
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of
March lOth advising of the nature of your telegram to
the American Embassy at Tokyo in connection with the
894.6363/257
subject matter of our 'phone conversation of March 9th.
I wish to take this occasion to let you
know how much we all appreciate the help that you are
extending to us in this matter.
Yours sincerely,
t. Dundas
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
FOEO
Washington, D. C.
F/FG
1

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.87)
manch 13'34
65
To note in connet
t Enteuy's 73 
ma 13, 4:00 Pim, whca
ahaed te read in ito
entiuty, that a new
"dead tine" her ben
set - ttar ogf manch 20.
No action reguired
new

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
66
(nem)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
1-1806
FROM
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore being com unicated
Datei March 13,1936
al
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 7:03 a. m.
Secretary of State
Washington.
73, March 13, 4 ..
254
894.6363/258
Denartment's 30, March 70, 2 n. m.
One. Aner: can and ritisl mbassies today made
oral and informl represontations to Kurusu along the
lines suggested y the Dorertment. The ropresentations
were not made a's an earli r date as the British Embassy
ad not received instructicis. On Harch 1l, however,
as a conferenco has beon arrangod, the local representa-
tivos of the oil companies presented tho plan of their
hoad offices to Kurusu and tho Vice Ministor for Conr orce
and Industry. The local reprosontativos did not dc-
sirc to postpono their conforence until tho British
FILED
Embassy had roceived instructions and boliovod that tho
diplomatic roprosontations wo ld bo as offoctivo if not
moro offoctivo as a follow up rathor than as a paving
of tho way.
Two. Today Kurusu scomed docidodly possimistic.
F/FG
Ho sai: that tho Vicc Ministor for Commorco and Industry
was

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
67
FS
2-No. 73, March 13, 4 p. m. from Tokyo
was examining the companies! proposal to ascertain
1f it were worth while to endeavor to continue the
conversations; that it would be necessary to reach
final decision before March 20 when the quotas for
the next quarter would be set; and that he did not
think that an independent storage company would be
feasible because of lack of adquate compensation.
He said that he wo ld inform the Embassies as soon
as the Vice Minister for Comnerce and Industry had
formulated his reply.
HPD
GREW

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
18
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPY
L1S
Thns telogram must bo
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore boing communicated
Datea larch 20, 1936
to anyone. (A)
yile
Rec'd 10:45 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Tilegram I Trkys
man. 20'36
894.6363/259
Washington.
habassy's 73, March 13, p. m., American oil
interests in Japan.
One. The Anorican oil interests have informed the
Embassy that they are about to enter into negotiations
with the Mitsui interests for some solution of the oil
problem in Japan. Dotails of tle plan can be obtained
from Standard Vacuum in New York. In viow of the fact
that the deadline for announcement by the oil interests
of acquiescence with the law was supposed to be today
FILED
the Standard Vacuum has roquested the Embassy to urge
the suspension of the regulations until negotiations
are completed.
Two. This has already been done informally by
the mbassy through Kurusu without mentioning the nature
of tho transaction. However, I propose to see the
Vice liinister for Foreign Affairs on Monday and to say
to him that as very important negotiations aro now
F/FG
takin: place I would wish to seo tho regulations in
regard

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
9
CORR E C T ED C O P Y
LMS 2-No. 77, March 20, 8 p. m. from Tokyo.
regard to the storage of oil suspended until the nogo-
tiations are comploted. Tho British Ambassador, who
has consultod with me, will tako tho same action.
Three. Unloss otherwiso instructod I shall tako
tho indicated action on Monday.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
70
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJP
1-1800
This telegram must be FROM
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated March 20, 1936
to anyone. (A)
Recta 10:45 a. m.
r
Washington.
MAR 20 1936
77, March 20, 8 p. m.
894.6363/259
Embassy's 73, March 13, 4 p. m., American oil
interests in Japan.
One. The American oil interests have informed the
Embassy that they are about to enter into negotiations
with the Mitsui interests for some solution of the oil
problem in Japan. Details of the plan can be obtained
from Standard Vacuum in New York. In view of the fact
that the deadline for Toqutescenee with the law was
た
supposed to havo beon announood today by the oil interests
the Standard Vacuum has requested the Embassy to urge
the suoponsiou of the regulations until negotiations
are completed.
Two. This has already been done informally by
the Embassy through Kurusu without mentioning the nature
of the transaction. However, I propose to see the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on Monday and to say
to him that as very important negotiations are now
taking place I would wish to see the regulations in
regard to the storage of oil suspended until the
F/F
negotiations
G

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
11
MJP -2- No. 77, March 20, 2 p. m. from Tokyo
negotiations are completed. The British Ambassador,
who has consulted with me, will take the same action.
Three. Unless otherwise instructed I shall take
the indicated action on Monday.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
n2
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
INNGATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
TREOODE
ent of State
Department
Washington,
Maroh 20, 1986.
60
AMEBASSY
TOKYO (Japan).
33
1259
C
Your 77 March 80, 8 p.m.
officers of American oil interests showed to/and dis-
eussed with orficers of Department/last evening texts or
cablegrams/sent/earlier yesterday by Standard-vacuum and
Shell giving identical instruotions/to their respeotive/
representatives in Japan.
894.6363/25
These texts indicate and conversation confirmed that
the oil interests concerned are in/complete agreement re-
garding approach/to the Mitaui/interests/and that/thi
approach'is to be/a/common/undertaking/looking/toward/a/
common agreement. Texts/do not/repeat/not/disclose/details
5
of/plan to/be proposed to Mitbu1, nor did/spokesman or/inter-
6
ests, though/asked, appear to have any details worked out.
Department approves/the/informal action takon/by you,
as reported, but feels that great care /should be taken to
see that action taken/by the/two interests and action by
the/ two Embassies in/ support/thereof'be/ losely and
discreetly'synchronized!
Referring
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
D. C. R
No 50

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.92)
13
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
8-130
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
PARTAIA
PLAIN
Washinglon,
Referring to your projected oall on the Vice Minister
appropriate rirst for representatives of the oil interests
to make request to Japanese authorities that suspension of
the regulations be authorized, and then for mbassies to
ive support & this request? will you be in positien on
Memday to affirm that QuorE very important negotiations
are now taking place UNQUorE? Department has rull
knowlaige
in view of lack of rtdenge regarding method,  content or
KNOWLED
projected approach'by oil interests to Mitbui, suggests
sx/t
that mbassy feel' its 'way very carefully and'avoid 'getting'
out ahead of interests or of British Embassy!
Pull.prd
Acting.
894.6363/
FE:SKH/ZMK:EJL
FE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
.19
D. C. R. No. 50.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
March 17, 1936.
zilo
MARI1936
DFASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 1 8 1936
Department of State
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
1256
894.6363/260
In our letter of March 9th, written
by Mr. Dundas, we quoted our cable dated March 7th,
which was despatched to the representatives of the two
foreign oil companies in Japan. In reply we received
a message, dated March l6th, from our representative
in Yokohama, a copy of which is attached for your in-
formation.
Friends in London received a similar
cable and we are now conferring with them regarding a
reply, concerning which you will be advised in due
course.
Sincerely yours,
P.N. Parks
FILED
PWP:H
Enc
F/FG

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
T
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
YOKOHAMA
ENSLDY
NEW YORK
PAGE 1
ONTRRPY
DATE
MAR 16/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
Rofer to your telegram of March 7th friends and we dis cuseed subject with K and
Y on March 11th Top At the outzet I und Y thotuht storaee plan would not be
possible because such arrangement not necessary for native oil comyanies and
must treat all alike and as storage (at/tcr) company s vould be unable to show
profit unless it (this) also embrace s d distribution but after friends and we
had developed feasil ility (uf) the  la  int-in-ec out ncome (oi) storage
company-s would be coverned (ly) Goverment conpensution (for) stockholding v ich
we assume will be adequate (to) cover interest and rr fit on carital invested K
and Y accepted a prepared outline enbod:-ins your views and undertook to give
further study to natter and to let us kow if they t ouht tnother disoussion
on this subject woulc he worth viile sTop Y too) t is oprortunity to inform us
that One Commerce Department ust cunsider next quurter quota-s before Harch 30th
also must deal with appdication s for acdition-s to refining: capacity from native

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
心
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
OKOHAMA
EASLEY
NW YORK
PAGE 2
CNTERY
MAR 16/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
oil companies notably Mitsubishi Goshi Kaisha and ippon Cil Co. Two If fcreign
companies refuse to comply vith stocklholc im requ ireme ts t eir april June
quotas will have to be cut for althoughh t e: vill be techricelly within the law
until July lst they have nade no preparations to conply and after July 1st they
will be liable to fine-s and to having their quotas cut down one half ree
Commerce Department mast know well in adva ce f JI t v ut to empect on the
part of foreign companies Four If the sit ation is such (that) it seens ecessary
for Commerce Department to approve additional refininr, capacity Governient can no
longer be hold to obligation-s (of) re-allocatine, natural increase equal-ly
between refiners and inporters Five Government wis es to lnow in te event
companies quota-s halved if companies vill contin e to  erate t io curry
stock-s required uy law on basis (or) re cec rute  lale  l st trade 
solling finished products cif or will eleet to witi drav bhey  vint cut that in

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
YOKOHAMA
EANPLEY
NEW YORK
PAGE 3
CEFTERY
1O
DATE
MAR 16/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
latter alternative if company refees to sell whclesale cither finished procuct-s
or crude the prol len ay et e td a co erelal s e u du an will ave o
make certain (ol) ul  ron e ou lor C Harel I th re. reser tat ves
(of) American and ritisl Eanassles a e Juint call (c) K (tc) empnasize n
that idea s subnitted by conya lee terit serime cc uideration (cs) rovernnert
sTop K proffeseed dou t-s ts on ef l ese of rt er iee sslons wud ex seceer
opinion that negotiations deadlocked as t overnment could not finance the stock-
holding and compa ies unwillin, to do so feariny danverous precedent STop With
a view (of) keeping negotiatlons open Enhassies representatives put forward as
their own suggestion A Proposed storage conpany-s might embrace agents of loth
companies who by reason of their vital interests (in) preserve-ins quota-s would
only require income to storage company s sufficient to break even B Company-s in
returm for renting of stocks from storage company-s in order to comply with law

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.89)
T
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
YOKOHAMA
ENSLEY
NEW YORK
PAGE 4
CEFTERY
DATE
MAR 16/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
might consider paying small fee to storage company-s supplementing government s
compensation, STop K has informed Diclhover cubeegucntly that he has mentioned
these points to Y whose first reaction is t at s ich an urrangement would not be
admissitle under the lav as ownerehir (os) rcs vorld cot rest with foroi
companieu neverthelese I sesls ( a)  L  a y Yurh uee riscs
and we develop idea with Y sTop Frre e u vo are  e o ilion re sal ( f
stocks should aduit (of) tec nical gllane wi  ve  i
that developmont outoru o   () osid (i) A
and  offer-s poseible practloal l ver  is silli ve
arrangement-s vhicb will allov foyei  cos a s vo cor irne vradiu uder
present status stop Tiereiore we eccnse t au  ou  ree wo aise iss with y
further (to) nake-ia. it cleer  t ve regtive vern ect (o) urrase scese
loan s fron the lanks a ir a   bract al ei utins bp

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
T
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
TOKOHAMA
ENSLDY
NEW YORK
PAGE 5
CEFTRRY
ATB
MARCH 16/36 NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
If it (this) is not accepted we must conclude as we now suspect that
Government has in mind utilizine our unwillingmees to comyly with law to force
us into employing Japanese canital and sellin vwholesale or withdrawing
gradually to suit their planos sTop This vould he consistent with strong nation
al policy and nerease state control (o) industry-s nov anticipated on tre part
of new tovernment sTop To ou surr ise  a  s cale latios itat s
gasoline produced y lydrogenation coald con ete vith local-ly refined or impor
ted with only modest subsidy  casily recovered by lncrease-ine d duty (to a)
small extent therefore we see rossibility cf cvernnet acquiring hydrogenation
not only as security (for) but also to supplant inported gasoline with conse.
quence also that no twithstanding cuarantee-s it nay take much longer (than)
hitherto estimated to liquidate stora e company s nder qtntitative maximun
arrangement STop For N's calomlation-s please refer (to) his telegram.s to
The Hague via London today

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.91)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
March 19, 1936.
NEWYORK
zee
MAR I 1938
Ludm
N A
DIVEION OF
A
neu
p0t
Dr. S. K. Hornbeck,
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6363/261
Referring to our telephone con-
versation of yesterday, I attach copy of two tel-
egrams which were despatched by our London friends,
as well as ourselves, to Yokohama today.
I hope to have the pleasure of
discussing these with you this evening.
Sincerely yours
PN.Parks
PWP:H
Enc
FTED
F/FG

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.92)
Frlende have tedey sent follouing twe cable to Yokokame with
Nefer to your telegram er h Ttm Tfter full dieeussion
(uith) frionds we have eme to the conelusiom thaet any esenge
memt whereby an asesclatten (ef) dealers would be used for the
parpese er the steek keeping law would be objeetiomeble fer
fellewing reason-s Firetly In all probability would net be
favered by Covernment Aeconaly Would turn a comperatively
weak body or mem into a stong united group whioh under wrong
leadershly eould be extremely harmful to our bueimess Thirdly
As Stamdard Vacuum Oil Co. in any cass heve closs assoeiation
with Mitoui natural thing would be for thom to ampliry this
asseeiation rather than to turn to other Japanese nationals
FUI.LsTop Therefere it se ms to us Mitou1 may offer a medium
through whieh something can be assomplished and w: agree to
develop this idem if you and friends representatives oonour
FULLBTop In sueh a oase would muggest (that) you have informal
talk (with) X and Y in conjunetion (with) your embassy-s sug-
gsssing thet they continue to suspemd operution-s (or) present
regaletiems until the whele matter can be studied in New York
between euthorimed representative-s (er) Mitau1 and representm-
sives of our twe sompanies to determine whether mtually satis-
faetery arrangement ean be made FUl.Lstop Ir you find (that)
Gevernment is prepared to eooperate on sueh e pregrem you shemt
them taks up (with) Mitsui in erder that they appoimt represemt
ative-s and arrange dates fer meeting-s Fullsror Quite ader-
atand (that) Government matural-ly relmetant elter legimletiem
bat om the ether hand company-s confront-ed as they now are
almeet daily with dememe-s from ether Gevernments for steck
meegins cannot pessibly creete precedent by comformins s.ler

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.87)
00 8
 to    UYo f
pepresentatévee sheuld esesséer hether 1t (tess) wenld
preseseble (to) eppresch Witau1 first in ester to sesmre 
agreemeet and pessibly their assistanee with Gevermment after
which you could have informml talk-s (with) X and Y im com
jumetion(with) mbassy-ies suggesting that they continue to
suspend operetion-s (ef) present regulations until the whele
matter ean be stadied in New York rUI .sror Hewever we leave
you-r somplete diseretiom as te appromching government effie-
ial-s first or Mitsui first but we desire emphasise that from
the very beginning you should make it clear that subsequent-ly
(te) proposed meeting-s should take place (in) New York as 1t
(this) effer-s the only preetieel plece for early negotiations
(fer) eonsidering the party-s interested Message Ends.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
74
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1-1400
FROM
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated March 23,1936
to anyone, (A)
Rec'd 10:05 a. m.
sgre
aral desaumm urit
Secretary of State,
nu Puhn ty sir t m
894.6363/262
uan. 23'36
Washington.
(see/264)
78, March 23, 7 p. n.
Department's 33, March 20, 6 p. m.
One. The local representative of the oil interests
this afternoon communicated to Kurusu and Yoshino (Vice
Minister for Commerce ena Inaustry) the outline of the
proposal of their head offices to cooperate with Japan-
ese capital in some form. The proposal was apparently
wel? received by the Japanesc officials. Yoshino stated
that for the next throo months tho foreign oil comnanios
FILED
would rocoive the same quotas as hitherto and that he
would continuo to hola up the pending applications for
additional refining capacity. Askod if ponaltios would
bo onforcod aftor July onc, should it bo found impossible
for tho now morgor or arrangomont (if it matoralizos)
to comploto tho roquirod oil storago by that timo,
Yoshino said, "Spoaking unoffioially I shall do my bost".
Tro. Undor thoso favorablo circumstancos my British
F/FG
colloaguo

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
75
FS
2-No. 78, March 23, 7 p. m. from Tokyo
colleague and I agree that it will not be necessary
at the present moment officially to urge suspension
recys
regulatins
of the nogotlatlons and tiat it will be better to
reserve our ammunition for usc later should it be found
desirable to request susponsion of the regulations after
July lst. Unless otherwise instructed, therefore, I shall
not (repeat not) make the aut'orized representations.
Threo. Third sontonce of paragranh one of the
Eabassy's 77, March 20, should have read as follows:
"In viow of tho fact that thxe deadline for announcoment
by the oil interosts of acquioscence with tho law was
supposcd to be today, ot cotora."
KLP:CSB
GREW

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
Apr1l 20 1930
n.1014
3
To the Ameviean Ambassader,
Torye.
The Beeretary of State refers to the mbassy's
1962
telegram Ee. 98 or Mareh 23, 7 p.m., and to previeus
ecrrespemdesee in regard te the oil situation in Japan
894.6363/
and eneleses, fer the imformatien of the Ambassador,
eepies of memeranda of conversations wnder dates
Mareh 19 and Mareh 23, 1956, between certain officials
of the Ameriean oil interests and officers of the
Department.
26
2
Enclesures:
Memorandum of
Mareh 19, 1936;
Memorandum of
Mareh 23, 1936.
894.6363/262
1い
FE:RCM:EJL
FR

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 25, 1936.
Tokyo's attached despatch No. 1723,
March 6, 1936, gives 1nformation with
rogard to negotiations between the American
o11 interests and the Japanese Government,
chiefly on the subject of the storage
requirement of the petroleum law. In view
of Tokyo's telegram No. 78, March 23,
7 p.m., reporting the manner in which the
Japanese Government received the subsequent
news of negotiations between the oil
interests and representatives of Japanese
capital, this despatch now has smali
interest.
The despatch incidentally reports
that agents from The Hague are attempting
to sell to Japanese companies a process
for the hydrogenation of coal.
894.6363/263
CC
CC/BLY

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1723.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 6, 1936
yl
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
894.6363
(y  F =81)
Division of
5
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
()
MAR 2 4 1936
Department of State
Cofy 5 Lmdm
neu
894.6363/263
No
Grude
For
In U S A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
255
No. 1692, dated February 20, 1936, and to previous corres-
pondence on the subject of the difficulties being experienced
in Japan by the American oil interests under the Petroleum
Industry Law, and to report the following developments in the
situation.
Negotiations.
As was stated in despatoh No. l692, the local representa-
tives of the American and British oil interests called on
MT.
F/FG

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the
Foreign Office, on February 8 and conveyed to him the message
from the head offices of the oil interests, to the effect
that the oil companies were unwilling to depart from their
position as bona fide traders by carrying noncounercial stocks
of oil, in accordance with the Jipanese law and regulations.
Mr. Kurusu later discussed the question with Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Conmerce and Industry, and on February
22 invited Lir. Dickover of the Embassy to his o rice to obtain
1/
the reply to the message oi the oil companies. A memorandum
of the conversation between Mr. Kurusu and r. Dickover
is enclosed. In brief, r. Kurusu steted that, although
the six months' storage provision would have to stand, it
might be possible to place a maximum on the quantity of
oil which would have to be stored, instead of increasing
the quantity as the trade increases. However, in order that
the question of quotas for the second quarter of 1936 might be
settled, and in order that r. Yoshino might be enabled to con-
tinue to refuse applications from Japanese refining companies
for the installation of additional refining capacity, r.
Yoshino recommended that the foreign oil companies submit a
concrete proposel to the Japanese Government, offering to store
six months' stocks of oil under the conditions(1) thet the
maximum be made a half of the imports of 1934 or 1935, (2)
that adequate compensation for the storage of oil be paid
by the Japanese Gover ment, and (3) that sufficient guarantees
of future business be given. The primary idea, as r. Dickover
gathered it, was that r. Kurusu and Lir. Yoshino were most
anxious that the foreign oil companies agree to store the
required

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
required quantity of oil, under any conditions which they
might care to impose, in oruer to clarify the issue, to
permit the Japanese Government to give the seme quotas to the
oil companies for the second quarter f the year, and to
enable the Ministry of Comaerce and Industry to refuse
to grant aoplications for additional refining capacity.
Any conditions which the foreign oil companies might impose
would, of course, be subject to negotiation later.
The oil companies conveyed this message to their prin-
cipals on February 24 (February 22 being an American national
2/
holiday and February 23 a Sunday) (Enclosure No. 2). In the
meantime, however, the head offices of the oil companies
had devised a plan which they cabled to the local orfices
on February 24, for the consideration of the local ofrices
but not for transmission to the Japanese Government. A
3/
copy of the telegram conveying this plan is enclosed. Ac-
cording to this plan, the Janenese Government would erect
the storage facilities and buy the oil for storage and the
foreign oil companies would agree to purchase the storage
equipment and the oil, as such equipment and oil became
necessary for their normal trade. After some discussion
of this plan, the local representatives of the oil interests
replied to the effect that, while the plan had points of
advantage, it seemed to imply too great a loss of prestige
on the part of the Japanese Government and would therefore
probably cause the Government to increase Japanese refining
facilities and to reduce the guarantees which might other-
wise be given to the foreign oil companies. The plan would,
moreover require the Japanese Government to give the same
financing facilities to the Japanese companies, which would be
too expensive a scheme to consider. A copy of the telegram
ent

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
sent by the local representative of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company to the New York head office on this subject
4/ is enclosed.
Liquefaction of Coal.
Two representatives of the International Hydrogenation
Process of The Hague, vetnerlands, have arrived in Japan to
conduot negotiations for the sale of the so-called "I.G."
coal liquefaction process to the Japanese. It will be remem-
bered that this process, which, although German in origin,
is in fact owned principally by British and American oil
and chemical interests, was offered to the Japenese Govern-
ment in return for e reversion to the Five-roint program
evolved last April after protracted negotiations between the
special representatives of the oil interests end representa-
tives of the Japanese Government. After discussing the situation
vith the local representatives of the oil companies, the two
representatives of the coal liquefaction process company have
decided to confine their conversations on the coal hydro-
genation question to technical discussions with the Ministry
of the avy and the Mitsui interests, with a view to con-
vincing them that the process which they wish to trade to
the Japanese Government is the best on the market. In the
meantime, the discussions on the question of the storage
of oil will continue, and it may be possible that later the
hydrogenation process can be used as a means of coming to
terms.
The

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
The newspapers report that the Mitsui interests
are also negotiating for the Fischer process for the
hydrogenation of coal.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Liemorandum of Conversation, r. urusu and
Lir. Dickover, dated February 22, 1936.
Copy of telegram, Standard Cil Company,
Yokohama, to the head ofrice, ew York
February 24, 1936.
Copy of telegram, rising Sun Petroleum Co.,London,
to Yokohama office, February 24, 1936.
Copy of telegram, Standard-Vacuum Oil Compeny,
Yokohama, to head orfice, New York, February
27, 1936.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh No.
1705 of March 5, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM
Conversation.
February 22, 1936.
Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of
Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office.
Mr. Dickover.
Mr. Kurusu asked ir. Dickover to call at 1l:45 this
morning. He stated that Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minister for
Commerce and Industry, had conferred with him that morning
on the oil question, and that Yoshino's reply to the latest
representations of the foreign oil interests was as follows:
1. That it would be impossible to change the law and
regulations to conform with the wishes of the foreign oil
interests and that, consequently, the six months' storage
provision would have to stand.
2. The plan of placing a maximum limit on the amount
of the oil storage, instead of increasing it each year as
the trade grew, might be feasible, but Yoshino himself could
not himself offer to propose this change in the regulations.
The proposition must come from the foreign side, after which
Yoshino can discuss the matter with the military and others
interested.
3. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry must soon
consider the quotas for the quarter beginning April 1, 1936,
and if the foreign oil companies definitely and finally
refuse to store six months' stocks of oil, the Ministry will
be compelled to reduce their quotas.
4. Some of the.Japanese oil companies, notably Mitsubishi
and Nippon Sekiyu, have applied to the Ministry of Commeroe
and Industry for permission to erect new refineries, probably
having in mind an eventual refusal of the foreign oil com-
panies to comply with the law in regard to stock-holding
and subsequent reduction of their quotas. Yoshino is holding
up these applications, on the ground that the agreement
made with the oil companies last April gave to the domestio
oil companies only enough of the natural inorease in demand
to take up the existing idle refining capacity. If the
foreign oil companies should definitely refuse to store six
months' stocks of oil, Yoshino would be compelled to grant
the applications for new refineries. (Kurusu added that "this
would be bad for everybody" but he did not state whether or not
this was his or Yoshino's opinion, nor in what respeots it
would be bad for everybody)
5.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
5. Yoshino therefore recommends that the foreign oil
interests present a concrete proposal, offering to put in
six months' stooks under the following or somewhat similar
oonditions:
(a) That six months of, say, 1934 or 1935, be taken
as the maximum oil storage obligation.
(b) That adequate compensation for the oil storage
be paid by the Japanese Goverrment.
(c) That sufficient guarantees of future business be
given.
Mr. Dickover here asked what Mr. Yoshino meant by "ade-
quate compensation". ir. Kurusu said that he meant that com-
pensation sufficient to pay off the cost of the storage faci-
lities in a reasonable time would be paid, so that the com-
panies would then have their tanks free of cost to them. "Let
the companies ask for what they would consider the proper
compensation". Mr. Dickover then asked if the guarantees of
business would be for a lengthy period, say twenty years.
Mr. Kurusu said that that might be done, but anyway, "Let
the companies make the proposition".
Mr. Kurusu proceeded to state that, if Yoshino has some
concrete proposal, he can continue the present quotas, at least
until June 30, 1936, and can refuse the pending applications of
the Japanese oil companies for additional refining capacity,
on the ground that the foreign oil interests have not refused
to store six months' stocks of oil, but on the contrary are
willing to store the oil under certain conditions. Moreover,
the foreign oil interests' objection to the establishment
of a precedent of storing six months' stocks of oil will be
overcome by the fact that they will be storing a fixed quentity,
in gallons, not six months' of the previous year's imports.
Mr. Dickover said that he would convey this information
to the local representatives of the oil companies, but as today
is an American national holiday and will be followed by a
Sunday, he doubted that it would be feasible to cable the
information to the United States or Englend before Monday.
However, he said, he would see Mr. Meyer that evening and would
give him the information at that time, and that r. Meyer
would convey it to r. Ely of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company.
Mr. Dickover obtained the impression from the above
interview that the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry
and Mr. Kurusu desired above all to obtain the oil companies'
agreement to the storing of six months' supplies of oil, under
whatever conditions the companies might wish to impose. The
purpose seemed to be to keep the conversations open and to keep
the foreign oil companies in business in Japan under their own
conditions, subject, of course, to revision after negotiation.
E. R. D.
The above information was given to Mr. Meyer, of the Standard
Vacuum Oil Company, at six p.m., February 22, 1936.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 2 to despatoh No.
1735 of Maroh 5, 1936 from the
Embessy at Tokyo.
COPY
TO NEWYORK
FROM YOKOHAMA
Feb. 24/36
Referring to our telegram of Feb. lOth K. now has communicated
to Friends end us through U.S. Embassy following message from Y.
Message begins - ONE That it would be impossible to change law
and regulations to conform with the wishes of the foreign oil
interests and consequently the 6 months storage provision would
have to stand - TWo The plan of placing a maximum on the amount
of oil storage might be feasible but Y. himself cannot under-
take to propose this and proposition must come from the foreign
side, after which Y. can discuss the matter with the military
and others interested - THREE The Ministry of Comneroe and In-
dustry must soon consider quotas for quarter beginning Apr. 1936
and if the foreign oil companies definitely and finally refuse
to put in 6 months stocks, the Ministry will be compelled to
reduce their quotas - FoUR Probably having in mind eventual
refusal of foreign companies to comply with law and conse-
quent reduction of their quotas Mitsubishi and Nippon have
applied to extend refining facilities but Y. is holding up
applications in view of understanding given Directors that
refiners would be given only sufficient of natural increase
to retire existing idle refining capacity. If however foreign
companies definitely refuse put in 6 months storage T. will be
compelled to grant applications - FIvE Therefore Y. desires
foreign companies(to) present a concrete proposal offering
to put in 6 months stocks under the following or somewhat
similar conditions - (a) That the 6 months stocks, say using
1934 or 1935 as the basis, be made the maximum - (b) That
adequate compensation be paid by Government - (o) That adequate
guarantee of future business be given. STOP. If Y. has some
such proposal he can continue the present quotas at least until
June 30, l936, and can refuse the applications of the oil com-
panies for additional refining capacity on the ground that
foreign companies have not refused to store 6 months stocks
of oil but on the contrary are willing to store the oil under
certain conditions. STop. The foreign companies objection
to establishing precedent of 6 months storage will be overcome
by the faot that it is a fixed quantity in gallons which they
are storing not one-half of previous years imports. - Message
Ends. STOP.
For your guidance Friends and we believe foregoing message to
be result of meeting reported held February 2lst between Army,
Navy, Commerce, Overseas Depts. and Natural Resources Bureau
and if you are prepared to consider compromise along the lines
suggested Friends and we are of the opinion it is inadvisable by
waiting longer to inour risk of Government officially approving
and

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
and recognizing additional idle refining capacity. Therefore
we suggest we should now make some concrete proposal embodying
also some soheme of Government financing diminishing quantity
of non-commercial stocks as suggested in our telegrem of Feb.
18th. SToP. In regard to quantitative maximum we believe Govern-
ment have in mind current obligation i.e. one-half imports
during July 1934 June 1935 but we suggest that you propose
quantity equal to one-half 1934 imports expressed in kilolitres
without reference to 6 months. SToP.
Friends are telegraphing similarly to London.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatoh No.17e3
of Maroh 5, 1936 from the Embassy at
Tokyo.
Copy of cable from London dated February 24,1936.
Referring your telegram of l8th February we feel very
strongly as the whole issue now is direct between head offices
of Oil Companies and the Japenese Government, it would be very
unwise for you to make definite suggestion even though you em-
phasized that it was merely local. What we want is some clear-
cut proposal from Japanese Government on which we can give
decision here. For your private guidance only, and also to
enable us to have your opinion and opinion of Friends' repre-
sentative, we may be prepared to consider scheme which would be
in fact as advantageous to Japanese as the scheme outlined in
your telegram of l8th February but, being turned round the other
way, would be very much less obnoxious to us from the world wide
point of view. We wish to emphasize that one of the main ob-
jestions to our complying with the Petroleum Law is the pre-
cedent such compliance would set to other Governments. Therefore
we tentatively suggest that ssheme may be devised whereby Govern-
ment themselves financed and owned for the time being extra tankage
and extra stocks necessary to comply with the Law on some modified
quantitative basis as now envisaged and that these tanks to be
erected on or in the neighborhood of Oil Companies' properties
so that we could look after stocks, etc. for the Government and so
that the Government could give us the right to purchase from them
tanks and stocks in whole or part as increasing trade should make
them commercially useful to us. For such right we might be
prepared to pay annual sum equivalent to low rate of interest
on the loan proposition put forward by you, but it would not be
oalled interest and it would not be dangerous as precedent for
the remainder of the world seeing that non-commercial stocks
and storage would be provided by the Government. Needless to say
this proposal would have added merit of providing incentive
to the Japanese Government to give us largest possible quota in
order to reeover their capital as soon as possible. If storage
were built in locality satisfactory to us in connection with
our present business we could take obligation to absorb such
storage before erecting any new facilities of our own and also
to supervise erection if desired by Government. Please dis-
cuss with riends' representative giving us your views on such
proposal but on no account make any suggestion concerning same
to the Government at present. Your telegram 24th February re-
ceived since writing above but we will not reply until we have
received your reply to this telegram.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to despatoh
No. 1723 of March 6, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y
To: New York Office
From: Standerd-Vacuum Oil Company, Yokohama
February 27, 1936.
Referring to your telegram of February 24th plan sug-
gested in ondon's telegram would be feasible from point
of view of being within letter of the petroleum law but
Friends we and both Embassies are of opinion that it is
impractical as a solution for following reasons: (one)
It would, if accepted, constitute a defeat for the Govern-
ment of such magnitude that only the minimum in guarantees
on future trading could be expected and would most likely
incite Government to accelerate refining (two) Goverrment
will strongly resist any scheme which does not lend itself
to application to Japanese companies as well as to foreign
companies and since Jepanese companies have already accu-
mulated six months stocks the transfer of ownership to
Government of their non-comnercial stocks and tankage
would not only involve unnecessary expense to Gover ment
but also serve to emphasize the submission of Government
to pressure from foreign companies with consequent serious
loss of prestige. Friends we end both Embassies are not
at all confident that Gover ment will consider any form of
Gover ment financing and therefore we ourselves believe that
any plan involving complete Government financing of non-
commercial stocks must in order to receive Government
serious consideration be so designed as to convince Govern-
ment of our earnest desire for practical solution and at seme
time permit minimum loss of face to Government which we believe
plan as per our telegram of February l8th offers. The above
represents our views under conditions obtaining prior to
yesterday's political incident and as character of Government
of immediate future cannot yet be forecasted with certainty
we cannot venture en opinion as to whether or not our
problem will now be intensified. Friends are telegraphing
substantially the same but are inclined to favor offering
London scheme as first step towards effecting compromise
along lines our telegram rebruary l8th but pointing out
attendant risks. LEYER.
GREW.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
ATYFDIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
xl
1936N48 2eatson3 20
March 23, 1936.
Mr. Philo W. Parker,
Division of
FStandard-Vaouum Oii Company,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 2 4 1936
121.
Mr. Hornbeok.
Department of State
Subject: The Oil Situation in Japan.
Cofy 1 Toayo
" is Lomdon
Mr. Parker called me on the telephone from New York
ney
and read to me a telegram from the representative in Japan
of Standard-Vacuum. In the concluding sentence of this
894.6363/264
telegram there was a statement that the American and the
British Ambassadors would probably "on Monday" ask the
Japanese Foreign Office to effect a suspension of the
putting into force of the storage requirements, in view
of the negotiations upon which the oil interests were
expeoting to enter with the Mitsuis. Mr. Parker said that
it oocurred to him and Mr. Teagle that it would be useful
FILED
if the Department would give the American Ambassador
authorization or instruction to make such a request. I
explained to Mr. Parker that the Department would probably
not be inolined to give the Ambassador a specifio instruo-
tion of that sort, but that we had already given the
Ambassador an instruction with regard to the latest develop-
ments and I was sure that the Ambassador would do all that
he felt appropriate and possible. Mr. Parker said that he
F/FG
thought he "understood".
Shortly

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
Shortly after the conversation recorded above, there
/202
came to us Tokyo's telegram 78, Maron 23, 7 p.m. I called
Mr. Parker on the telephone and gave him the substanoe of
the contents of this telegram. Mr. Parker expressed appre-
ciation and inquired whether I could send him a text.
I said that I was not sure that I could and that I imagined
that he would receive substantially the same report from
his representative in Japan. It was agreed that if Mr.
Parker did not receive such a report, he would inform me.
FE:SKH/ZK
E

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.93)
DO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
DIVISIONOF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TMENF STAT
Maroh 19, 1936.
1936 R 26 AM 11 19
Conversation
Mr. W. C. Toagle, Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey;
Lndm
Mr. P. W. Parker, Standard-Vacuum
neus
Oil Company;
6363
ghe
94
Mr. Hornbeok;
Mr. Mackay.
Divisi
AR 
894.6363/26
Subject: Oil situation in Japan
At the outset of a lengthy disoussion wnich covered
a rather wide field of subjects relating to the oil situa-
tion in general and to that in Japan in partioular, there
were handed to Mr. Hornbeok by Mr. Parker as enolosures
5
261
to a letter bearing date March 19 the texts of two cable-
hadbe
grams whioh  today sent by the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company and the Shell interests in London to their
respective agencies in Japan. These cablegrams, around
which most of the ensuing disoussion centered, in brief,
suggest, as a possible solution to existing difrioulties
in Japan, a "hook-up" between the Standard and Shell
FU
interests on the one hand and the Mitsui interests on the
other hand. The nature of the arrangement which might be
effected between the parties named is not indicated, but
F/FG
it is hoped that, pending negotiations, to be carried on
if possible in New York, the Japanese Government will
cause
1

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
eause to be suspended operation of the existing regula-
tions. Decision is left to the representatives in Japan
of the coneerned oil interests whether they shall first
approach the Japanese Government or the Mitsui interests.
Mr. Teagle asked the opinion of Mr. Hornbeok in re-
gard to the move under contemplation. Mr. Hornbeck re-
plied to the effeot that he peroeived no objeotion to
erploring the possibilities of such a plan whioh at
first blush would appear to be a warrantable move.
No action was requested of the Department, the idea
apparently being that the representatives in Japan of
the concerned oil interests will acquaint their respective
embassies of the move under contemplation and of the as-
sistance, if any, which they may wish to receive from the
American and British Embassies.
It would seem worthy of note that the concerned
American and British oil interests are not only very de-
termined in their refusal to comply with the six-months'
storage requirements but that, at least to date and in
this instance, they are working shoulder to shoulder and
in perfect accord in their relations with the Japanese
Government.
m.m.H.
reaws
FE:ROM:EJL

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 25, 1936.
1936 AR 2 AM 10 24
Referonoe Standard-Vacuum Oil Company's
letter of Maroh 24, 1936, and enclosure thereto
in regard to the oil situation in Japan, --
The telegram of March 24 addressed to
the New York office of the Standard-Vacuum by
its representative at Yokohama amplifies but
does not alter the information contained in
the Embassy's telegram No. 78 of March 23,
7 p. m.
Worthy of note are the statements made
by the Yokohama ofrice of the Standard-Vacuum
to the effeot that (a) in the opinion of
Yoshino and Kurusu it may be advisable, due to
the magnitude of the undertaking, for the
American and British oil interests to make
arrangements with separate Japanese companies
or with a consortium of Japanese companies and
(b) that according to news reports the Japanese
Government, with a view to "establishing
unified fuel industry", is drafting a coal
liquefaction law, a gasoline alcohol mixture
law, measures for strengthening the present
petroleum lay.anu important industries control
law and thathFinance Department" is planning
a gasoline consumption tax of 5 sen per
American gallon.
No action is required  the Department
other than a brief acknowledgment of the
Standard-Vacuum's letter under reference.
nes
RCM:REK

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.92)
iDO
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
NEWYORK
March 24, 1936.
936 AR 2 M 10 24
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
acked
man
25
MAR 25 1936
27 16
Department of State
Dr. S. K. Hornbeck,
ar
894.6363/266
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
tndom
Department of State,
coby t
Washington, D.C.
nsee
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Enclosed please find copy of
telegram just received from Yokohama, dated March
24th, which as you anticipated covers the same
ground as the cable to which you kindly referred
yesterday.
We are now awaiting advices from
our Yokohama office as to the reception which Mitsui
gives to our proposals.
Sincerely yopis,
PN.Pack
FLED
PWP:H
P. W. Parker
Enc
6

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.85)
INCOMING
CABLEGRAM
EANSLDBY
YOKOHANA
NEW YORK
PAGE
CNE
CESTERY
DATE
MAR 24/3
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
Rofor to your telugram of o 1ot afar t our tol rum of Yuroh zo5n
frionds and we vesterla r forre it  i Y wo reccived suggestrooes very
favorably l ho  rlje icirte
etby
which we avoid atreli tooks mut syle
allatio () pt  i ()    -
ohane-s our status u ar  T po y pamaai  volustaarcd atrin
that our April Je Toot woult r oed  tt  vil ooutiour to
refrain from arprovi aplioution- cor pdlitional pesneries ror Also as
revards suspension (of) op r.tion-s ro ltiou-s ftur July lct v statei hr
could vive no underta n ofici  ut in licate morie  tlt if
negotiations oveuel snd pre  vooare woull coned er s 
means in viev of vaie ri ls  we a imbessy-a couei ler it innlvroeble
for the pres for dmboslore   ta o yr our teler m f

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
YOKOHAMA
Kurnsu
EABLE BY
NEW YORK
PAGE
TWO
CNSTERY Y
DATE
MAR 24/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
Marah 2oth Sror Por your uidance when si mifyin that overnment is pre-
pared to cooperate Y and Y cleurly unlicated at in vir crunio uny
arrangement with two comn i l
eerlureulertfor
one Japanese cencern especially in view o yresent to jene in cert
cirele-s to criticise lar e bugincas pnt rests wd they t rew cut sugxection
that better alternative i tht  for ene pomy my to m e l  it orte
Japanese interest-s tnat is 'ikav umitomo Okuru ote, or both compunues ith
consortium of Japanese intersts aa frienls uul ve urmile thnt overnment
may endeavor to work toward latter arrun ame t even thou our pe yotiutions
may be only with Titsui  Co Ter We ure tryin to rranre isoussione
(with ) Matsui  Co lireeter s tomerron Ter In va w of above ve have iven
friends contents of our tele ra of Dec 2ot l our er cori
Alkawa stor For your puformation newspa crs nou report that wit the virw to

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
OKOHAMA
ANSD BY
CABLE
NEW YORK
PA
ANS'D BY
LETTER
DATE
MAR 24/36
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
stablishin mui fied l (for) su try ur m e r at
ooal liquefactio7w71
strent: ni.
12707.
21071

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
(ac))
MARO2193A
Dear Mr. Parker:
The reeeipt is esknowledged of your letter of
Marek 24 and the enslosure thereto, both in regard to
resent derelepments in the eil situatiom in Japan.
894.
The telegram of Maroh 24 reseived by you from your
representative in Yokokama gives more detail in regard
636
te eertais phases of the situation than was given in the
C.
telegram of Mareh 23 reseived by the Department from the
/2
Imbassy at Tokyo to which I made reference in our com-
9
9
versatiom on Mareh 23. It is useful for the Department
te have the details which you have thus made available.
Sincerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern ffairs.
Mr. P. .. Parker,
Standard-Vaouum Cil Company.
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
FE:SKH:EJL
11.
2.
i
3/27/36

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
26 Broadway
Now York
March 2, 1936.
Dr. S. I. Hornbook,
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeok:
Enclosed please finc copy of telegram just
received from Yokohama, dated March 24th, which
as you antioipated covers the same ground as the
cable to which you kindly referred yesterday.
We are no awaiting advices from our Yokohama
office as to the reception which Mitsui gives to
our proposals.
Sincerely yours,
P. W. PARKER
PWP:H
Eno

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
NAT
E
INOOMING CABLEGRAM
FROM YOKOHAMA
TO
NEW YORK
PAGE ONE
DATE MAR 34/36
Refer to your telegram of March 19th Refer to your
telegram of Maroh 20th friends ana we yesterday conferred
with X and Y who received suggestion-s very favorably
and who cloarly indicated they anticipate that any
arrangement-s by whioh we avoid establishing precedent
of our holding stook-s ust involve allocation (of)
quota-s to offioial holder-s (of) stook-s and conse-
quent-ly change-s our status under the law 3TOP Y
iamediately volunteered undertaking that our April
June quota-s would not be reauoed and tha: he will
continue to refrain from approving application-s for
additional refineries STCP Also as regards suspension
(of) operation-s regulation-s after July lst Y stated
he could give no undertaking officially but indicated
unofficially that if negotiations opened and progressing
favorably he would consider ways and means in view of
which friends and we and Embassy-s consider it inad-
visable for the present for Ambassador-s make request-s
as per our telegram of Mareh 20th SToP For your guidance
when signifying that govermment is prepared to cooperate
Y

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Y and X olearly indicated th:t in their opinion any
arrangement with two companies woul be considered very
large undertaking for one Japanese concern especially
in view of present tendeney in certain cirole-s to
oritioise large business interests and they threw out
suggestion that better alternative might be for each
company to make deal with separate Japanese interest-s
that 1s Aikawa Sumitome Okura etc. or both companies
with consortim of Japanese intersts and friends and
we surmise that Govermment may endeavor to work toward
latter arrangement even though our uegotiations may be
only with Mitsui & Co. STop We are trying to arrange
disoussions (with) Mitsui & Co. direotor-s tomorrow
Stop In view of above we have given friends contents
of our telegram of Dec. 20th and your answer conoerning
Aikawa Stop For your information newepapers now report
that with the view to establiahing unified fuel (for)
indmstry-ies Govermment are draftin, coal liquefaotion
law gasoline aloohol mixture-s law and measure-s for
strengtheming present petroleum law and important
indastry-s comtrol law also that Finanoe Department
planning 5 sen per Amerioan gallon gasoline consump-
tion tax

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./98
FOR ....
1693
FROM ..Japan
Grew
-..) DATED
Feb.21..1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.6363/267
Oil Monopoly in Japan: Negotiations of foreign oil interests
REGARDING:
with authorities. Present status of-,
FRG.
27

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
(e) American Oil Interests in Janan.
Negotiations between the Jananese officials and the
representatives of the fcrein cil co: anies proceeded
durins January in a friendly ane concilietory manner and
at the close of the nenth. there eoner red to be sone hove
thet a satisfactory wor in a reement couid be reached.**
The probable reasen for the ch n e in attitude of the
Jananese cfficials wes thet, havin et first thcu ht that
the foreicn oil conpanies were bluffing end tlat they
would in the end yield to the Jananese Government's demand
for
*
Embassy's telegranm .o. 22 of February 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatches o. 1629 of January 10, 136, and
No. 1633 of Januar 24, 1:36.
-5-
for six months' stockholding without adequate compensaticn
or cuarantee, the Japanese cfficials later discovered that
the oil companies were firm in their decision. It appeared
that the Japanese officials were ready to make concessions
to keep the foreign oil companies in Japan. The nature of
these concessions was under discussion but not determined
by the end of the month.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 21, 1936.
E:
Reference Tokyo's despatch No. 1747
of Maroh 20, 1936, in regard to the
oil situation in Japan, --
The despatch under reference amplifies
but does not materially add to the informa-
tion previously received by the Department.
The situation as it now stands is,
according to my understanding, one in
which the foreign oil interests are en-
deavoring to work out with Japanese
interests, presumably Mitsui, some sort
of a joint enterprise acceptable to all
coneerned. It is assumed that the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company or the
Embassy or both will in due course inform
the Department of any developments of
importance.
RCM:EJL

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1747.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, Merch 20, 1936.
SUBJECT: A.ERICAN OIL TSTS L. JAPAN.
8946363
C8
No
For Di-tr bor on Tlock
894.6363/268
1011
Grade 1
In USA.
For
Indm
coby 5 Lmdm
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
lam 21
yode
Reu
MAR-91939
OF STATE
Divisier : 1
FAR LASTEHN AFLAIHS
V0
APR 7 -1936
Th
Honorable
The Secretary of state,
ED
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the mbassy's desnatch
263
No. 1723, dated march 6, 1936, end to previous corresponuence
on the subject of the difficulties being experienced in
Japan by the American and other foreign oil interests
under the Petroleum Industry Lew, end to report the following
developments in the situation.
Negotiations.
F/1

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Negotiations.
1263
As was reported in despatch No. 1723, some dis-
cussion had taken place betveen the heed offices of
the oil interests and the local representatives in re-
gard to plans for utilizing Jupanese toverrmental or
private canital for finencing the non-commercial portion
of the six months' stocks required by the Japenese law.
These discussions took definite form on .arch 1l, 1936,
when, acting under instruction ron their head ofrices,
the local renresentatives of the oil interests called
on Mr. Murusu, of the Foreign Office, end presented a
plan whereby the oil compenies agreed to carry a fixed
maximum quantity of oil, provided that guarantees and
security in regard to ruture business could he iven by
the Japanese Governnent and thet an arren ement could
be made so that a dangerous precedent vould not be set
for other countries. As  sug estion for such an arrange-
ment, it was proposed that an independent oil storage
company be set up with Government or public capital to
carry the stocks for the foreign oil co panies, the oil
and ecuipment to be taken over by the foreign oil com-
panies as the non-cornerciel stocks became conmercial
stocks through the gredual increase of trade. The pro-
posal was not well received, but Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Yoshino
(the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry), who was
present at the interview, stated that they would consider
the matter further and inform the local representatives
if they thought that another conversation on the subject
would be worth-while. In the course of the conversation,
Mr. Yoshino made the
interesting observation that, should
the

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
the foreign oil interests decide to withdraw from Japan
and refuse to sell crude end refined oil to this country,
"the problem may get beyond a commercial one and Japan
will have to make certain of oil supplies from new sources".
A memorandum of the conversation is enclosed.
Acting under instruction from the Department of State
and the British Foreign Office, respectively, r. Dickover
of this mbassy and r. acrae of the ritish mbassy
celled on .r. Kurusu on Larch 13, for the purpose of
supporting, orally and informally, the proposal of the oil
interests and of expressing the hope that a s lution of the
problem, mutually satisfactory to all concerned, would
flow from the negotiations. r. rurusu proceeded to
outline the objections to the scheme end stated that he
could see no way out of the impasse. Believing that the
negotiations would cease and the matter would be brought
to a head unless new steps could be taken to keep the
discussions alive, Mr. ickover proceeded to advance, es
his own ideas, certain suggestions which had been made
in the first instance by the local representatives of
the oil interests. One suggestion was to the effect that
the oil companies might be willing to pay something to-
ward the expenses of the storage company if the contribution
was in the nature of an option on the oil stored, or a
renting or hiring fee for the oil. The other suggestion
was to the effect that the Japanese agents of the foreign
oil companies might be willing, in order to retain their
trede, to finance the oil storage company, even though
they would receive little return on the money invested.
M座。

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
一4-
Mr. Kurusu said that he would consider these suggestions
and asked Mr, Macrae and Lir. Dickover to talk over the
ideas with the local representatives of the oil in-
2/
terests. A memorandum of the conversation is enclosed.
On March 15, 1936, .r. Dickover talked informelly
with mir. Kurusu, who said that he had discussed the sug-
gestions with ir.Yoshino. r. Yoshino, however, was
of the opinion that the entire storage company scheme
would not be feesible, because, according to the law,
the ownership of the stocks of oil must reside in the
importing companies, whereas under the proposed len
the ownership of the oil would rest in the storage
company until such time as the oil wes taken over by
the foreign oil companies. .r. Yoshino, however,
had proposed an alternative scheme, whereby the oil
companies would permit their quotas to be cut in half
but would carry the same amount of oil in storage as
et present; the other half of the co panies' quotas
would be given to the agents of the companies, who
would carry the remainder of the required stocks.
Mr. Dickover said that he did not think that this
scheme would be acceptable to the foreign oil companies,
because their present storage would represent six
months' of their halved quotas, end the companies
were objecting on principle to carrying six months'
stocks under any guise. ir. Kurusu insisted that
the companies would still be doing the same amount
of business, directly or through their agents, end
that therefore the three months' stocks which they
would be carrying would represent only commercial
stocks, not the six months' stocks to which they ob-
jected. Mr. Dickover said that he would present the
plan to the oil companies, which he did on the following

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
following day. The locel representatives of the oil
companies, however, immediately detected the fallacy
in the scheme and refused to consider it.
On March 16, 1936, the oil companies telegraphed
the gist of the discussions to their pr nci cls(Enclosure
3/ No. 3). On march 20 a reply from the heed offices was
received in Japan, but as the real meening of the reply
was not clear to the local represe tatives of the oil
interests, they had not taken action in connection there-
with at the time of vriting.
Liquefaction of Coel.
As wes stated in desnatch No. 1723, two Dutch
experts on the liquefaction or coel process ere sent
to Janan to conduct investi ations and to discuss tech-
nical questions with the Ja anese vavy and the Mitsui
interests. These two experts have discovered, as a re-
sult of their preliminary examinations, that gasoline
can be made from coal in manchuria at a cost very little
more than the cost of imported gasoline, duty included.
It would therefore be feesible for the Jananese to produce
their owm supply of gasoline from domestic raw materials
with only a moderate subsidy, which could be covered
by a small additional import duty on imported petroleum
products.
It is now reported that the Mitsui interests have
purchased the Germen Fischer process of hydrogenation
of coal and heve ordered plant and ecuipment to the value
twelve million yen from Germeny.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
1,2,3. As stated.
Joseph C. Grew.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosurelto despatch No. 1747
of U3from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
Notes on Moeting at Foreign Ofrice on
March 1l. 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. Kurusu (Chief of Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Ofrice)
Mr. Yoshino (Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry)
Messrs. Ely (R.S.P. Co.) and Meyer (S.V.O.C.)
Messrs. Ely and Meyer informed Messrs. Kurusu and
Yoshino that their Principals have now telegraphed that,
since receipt of the cable giving Ir. Yoshino's views as
presented by Mr. Kurusu through Mr. Dickover, they have
been giving constant study to those views; that their Prin-
cipals are sympathetic with the difficulties that would be
involved in changing the Law and Regulations to conform
with the wishes of the Foreign Oil Companies; nevertheless
from their own standpoint they are faced with compliance
with similar legislation elsewhere in the event that a
precedent is set in Japan and therefore they cannot depart
from the views which they have previously expressed on that
aspect of the problem. Messrs. Ely and Meyer then set
forth their Principals' ideas as to a method of solving the
problem, stating that the proposal which the two companies
have in mind embodies
(1) A fixed quantitative maximum for stock-hold-
ing
(2) Guarantees and security in regard to future
business on the lines of the Five Point Memo-
randum
(3)An arrangement so that a dangerous precedent
would not be set for other countries.
Amplifying (3) Messrs. Ely and Meyer stated that their
Principals consider that a possible means of meeting the
cost of stock-holding to comply with a fixed quantitative
maximum and overcoming the danger of setting a precedent
for other countries would be the establishment of a new
10001

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
local storage company; such a company to be independently
owned and operated; to be financed preferably by Govern-
ment arrangement through banks or alternatively by publio
money; and to carry suitable Government guarantees. The
loans, bonds or stocks involved in such an arrangement
would be gradually retired by the foreign oil companies
as the non-commercial stocks of oil were reduced, by in-
creasing trade, towards the equivalent of commercial needs;
and the connection of the two foreign companies with the
storage company would be limited to a contractural obli-
gation for the retirement of the loans, bonds or stocks.
Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino listened very attentively
up to this point whereupon Mr. Yoshino interjected a remark
to the effect that a plan such as the storage company men-
tioned would not be possible: such an arrangement could
not be made to take care of the stock-keeping obligations
of the foreign companies only: to which Mr. Kurusu added
"such a company would have no income". Messrs. Ely and
Meyer saw no reason why the arrangement could not be appli-
cable to the Japanese Companies and pointed out that the
income of the storage company would consist of compensa-
tion from the Government, which presumably would be ade-
quate to cover interest and carrying charges plus a fair
return on funds invested. Messrs. Kurusu and Toshino
were apparently unprepared at the moment for a suitable
reply to this assumption and Mr. Yoshino diverted the
talk along lines of his own, stating that he desired to
take this opportunity to speak to the foreign companies
O

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
very confidentially and, with their kind permission, he
would speak in Japanese for interpretation by Mr. Kurusu.
He then launched upon a very lengthy and obviously pre-
pared message, the substance of which as interpreted by
Mr. Kurusu was:
The Commerce Department must consider next quarter's
quota before March 2oth and it also must doal with applica-
tions for additions to refining capacity from Domestic
Companies, notably Mitsubishi and Nippon. If the Foreign
Companies refuse to comply with stock-holding requirements
their April-June quotas will have to be cut. It is true
as interpolated by Messrs. Ely and Meyer that they will
be within the law technically until June 30th, but the
Companies have made no preparation to comply and on and
after July lst they will be law-breakers and, as such,
will be liable to fines and to having their quotas cut in
half. The Commerce Department must know well in advance of
July lst what to expect on the part of Foreign Oil Companies
so as to make appropriate plans. If the Commerce Department
is placed in a position where it seems necessary to approve
of additional refining capacity, the Commerce Department
cannot thence-forward be held to any obligations in regard
to allocating a natural increase 50-50 between refiners and
importers. If the Foreign Companies when receiving cuts in
their quotas are unwilling to sell finished products on a
wholesale basis or if the Foreign Companies elect to with-
draw from Japan nd to refrain from selling both finished
products and crude, the problem may get beyond a commercial
ono

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
one and Japan will have to make certain of oil supplies
from new sources. In such event, of course, progress
will be accelerated in fuel substitutes, etc. In fairness
to the Commeroe Department, however, the Foreign Companies
should make known what they intend to do and Mr. Yoshino
would like Messrs. Ely and Meyer to pass on their request
to London and New York.
Reverting to the storage company proposal, Mr. Yoshino
saw something in the idea, but the Companies would have to
arrange it independently: they should be able to interest
Japanese capital and pay for it by allowing the Japanese
storage company to do part of their trade and obtain its
profit therefrom. If the storage company were a joint
affair, including also the Japanese companies, it should embrace
distribution as well and tlus obtain an adequate income -
there was a great deal to be saved by rationalizing distri-
bution and sales by means of the joint company. The proposal
as advanced by Messrs. Ely and Meyer meant that in effect
the Government would have to finance the stock-holding:
this would necessitate bonds which could not be issued
for that purpose.
After interpreting Mr. Yoshino's remarks as above
Mr. Kurusu reiterated his views concerning the fears of the
Foreign Companies regarding the setting of a dangerous pre-
cedent for other countries. Mr. Kurusu felt that the
Foreign Companies should forget that the stocks desired
by the Government constituted so many months requirements
and should look upon the stock-holding obligation as a
8pecif10

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
specific quantity and, moreover, should not isolate
new expenditure for stock-holding from existing invest-
ment but should rely upon prices to provide a satisfactory
return upon their total investments. He added that in
the last analysis the cost of stock-holding must come
out of the country and he thought the Foreign Companies
ought not to mind creating storage facilities somewhat
ahead of the time when demand would necessitate the same
facilities. Messrs. Ely and Meyer countered that since
in the last analysis the cost of carrying non-commercial
stocks falls on the country, it is proper that the cost
should be defrayed from general funds rather than imposed
upon the consumers only; also that the Foreign Companies:
attitude in regard tofinancing the carrying of non-commer-
cial stocks even though only temporarily, is founded on
the fact that such a precedent would immediately result
in other countries adopting similar legislation. In this
connection Messrs. Ely and Meyer again contrasted the posi-
tion of the Foreign Companies to that of the Domestic Com-
panies whose limited field of operation entails no risk of
this nature.
Mr. Kurusu also expressed the view that the local
storage company proposition would put unnecessary burdens
upon the Government inasmuch as Domestic Companies have al-
ready complied with the law under the present scale of com-
pensation and he again inferred that other Japanese business
men could be found who would serve similarly in the event
of Foreign Companies relinquishing a part of their quotas.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
Mr. Kurusu asked that the Foreign Companies bear in
mind the potential benefits to establ shed companies
incidental to the closing of the Japan market to new-
comers.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer developed at some length the
feasibility of the storage company proposition and re-
quested that, since the proposal represents the outcome
of long and careful study on the part of their Principals,
Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino should give the proposition
more thought and that whenever convenient to them another
discussion could be had. Mir. Kurusu in accepting a note
outlining the above-mentioned proposal of the companies
undertook to let Messrs. Ely and Meyer know if he and Mr.
Yoshino thought another discussion on the subject would
be worth while.
Mr. Kurusu when bidding Messrs. Ely and Meyer goodbye
made a casual and vague reference to recent reports from
Japan's naval attaches which implied that certain coercive
measures are being exercised in connection with Japan's oil
difficulties. Mr. Kurusu also expressed the hope that no-
thing in the nature of an economic war will develop from
the present situation.
Mr. Yoshino repeated that the Commerce Department will
expect to have adequate notice of the Foroign Companies' in-
tentions commencing July lst.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer as they were departing mentioned
to Mr. Yoshino that word has been received fpom Korea
that under no circumstances will foreign companies receive
any of the natural increase in consumption in 1936, that
Domestie

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 -
Domestio Companies are to be permitted to sell their
ontire 1936 quotas during the first half of the year
and that all natural increase will be reserved for the
Chosen Oil Company. Messrs. Ely and Meyer indicated that
they were very much disturbed over such a program. Mr.
Yoshino readily acknowledged that he was informed on the
subject but he had nothing at all to offer on the
subject.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2 to despatch
No.1747 01 War 20, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM
Maroh 13, 1936.
Conversation: Mr. Kurusu, of the Foreign Office.
Mr. Macrae, of the British Embassy.
Mr. Dickover.
Mr. Macrae and r. Dickover called upon r. Kurusu at
1l:30 this morning by appointment. Lir. Dickover opened
the conversation by stating that the American end British
oil interests had made a definite proposal to the Japanese
Gover ment which was designed to meet the needs of both
parties, and that it was hoped that from the negotiations
which would presumably be conducted in regerd to the com-
panies' plan, there would flow a solution of the problem
which wouldrove mutually satisfectory to all concerned.
Mr. Kurusu said that r. Yoshino, the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry, was very pessimistic of the
outcome of the conversations. ne said that ir. Yoshino
was now studying the companies' proposal and consulting
with his fellow officials in the Linistry in en effort
to ascertain if it were worth while to continue the dis-
cussions with the oil companies.
Mr. Macrae said that he thought that the plan of the
oil companies had merit and deserved careful consideration
by the Jepanese Government. r. Kurusu said that the great
trouble is that the time is so short. He seid that a definite
decision must be made by Maroh 20, when it would be necessary
to set the quotas for the next quarter and to prepare for the
quotas after July 1. He said that the oil companies, if
they did not store six months' stocks of oil, would not
become

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
become law-breakers until July 1, but that if their
quotas were cut in half at that time, the Japanese
industry would not be in a position to take up the
slack so quickly. Therefore preparations must be
begun soon, and licenses to increase refining e uip-
ment would have to be issued.
There ensued a long discussion of the companies'
suggestion that an independent storage comnany he formed
to carry the non-commercial portion of the stocks of oil.
Mr. Kurusu said that he and Yoshino had looked into the
matter and found that the scheme was not feasible, because
the compensation to be paid by the Government was in-
sufficient to meke it an attractive commercial propo-
sition, while the Government could not finence the non-
commercial stocks of the foreign companies without doing
the same for the Japanese 'companies. He said that the
foreign compenies, however, could do whet the Japenese
companies had done and borrow money from the banks to
finance the extra stocks.
Mr. Dickover and Mr. Macrae pointed out that that
was exactly what the foreign oil companies did not wish
to do, as to arrange their own finencing would be to con-
sent to the carrying by themselves of six months' stocks -
a precedent which they did not wish to esteblish. Mr.
Macrae said that the companies hed real grounds for their
fears about a precedent, as he had just heard thet the
Portuguese Government was now planning a petroleum law
modeled after the Japanese lew.
Mr.Kurusu said that he had exemined the storege
company scheme from all angles, but that every time he
ran

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
ran into en impasse. The scheme was after all a sort of
camouflage, whereby the companies would in reality be con-
senting to the storage of six months' stocks of oil but
would not a pear to be storing the oil. However, in order
to avoid the anpearance of storing six months' supplies of
oil, they wanted the oil to be held by an independent com-
pany. That would mean either financing by the Government,
by the oil companies through the banks, or by private capital.
The Government would not finance the scheme, because to do
so would mean that the Government would in reality be buying
its stocks of oil - a contingency which the Government had
tried to avoid. The oil companies would not finence the
scheme, even through Jenanese banks, because to do so would
create an undesirable precedent. rrivate cepital would not
finance the scheme, because it could not be made remunera-
tive. Therefore if the oil companies insisted upon the
formation of an independent storage company to carry the
oil before they would consent to carry even a fixed quantita-
tive maximum, the situation was at a deadlock. Moreover,
the carrying of the oil stocks by an independent company
would reguire alteration of the regulations.
Mr. Dickover pointed out that he did not understand
that the formation of the storage company was essential to
the companies' consent to the carrying of a fixed quantitative
maximum of stocks. In the memorandum given to Messrs.
Kurusu and Yoshino, it was mentioned as a possible solution.
Mr. Macrae said that that was also his understanding.
Mr. Dickover then said that the proposition of having
private capital finance the storage soheme was perhaps not
entirely

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
entirely hopeless. He said that it might be possible
that the oil companies could pay something toward the
carrying charges of the oil. He said that he had not
discussed the idea with the oil compenies, but as the oil
was to be stored by the independent company subject to
the call of the oil companies, they might be willing to
pey something for that service, calling the payment, say,
a charge for an option on the oil, or a renting or hiring
fee. Mr. Kurusu asked if r. Dickover meant that the oil
compenies should pay storage charges on the oil, as shippers
ordinarily pay warehouse companies for storage of their
goods. Mr. ickover exnlained that he did not mean storage
charges, as the oil companies vould not in fact be the
owners of the oil stored and could not very well pay
storage charges on something which they did not possess.
The payment which they might make would be rather in the
nature of a fee for holding the oil subject to the com-
panies' call. Mr.Kurusu egreed that there might be some-
thing in the idea.
Mr. Dickover also suid that there was another angle
to the situation. The oil companies' local Japanese agents,
scattered over the country, would lose heavily should the
oil companies withdraw from Japan or have their sales
quotas cut in half. Therefore, in order to keep their
business going, they might be willing to organize the
storage company, even though it would mean a rather
small return on the money invested. They could borrow
the money from the banks to finance the scheme. Mr.
Kurusu said that there might be something in that idea
also,

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.95)
- 5 -
also, and asked Mr. Macrae and r. Dickover to discuss
the two ideas with the representatives of the oil companies.
Mr. Macrae asked if there was anything which the Em-
bassies could do. .r. Kurusu saia that the case would
have to wait until he had ascertained the opinion of the
ainistry of ommerce and industry. ne said that he would
inform the mbassies as soon as he heard from Mr. Yoshino.
E。R. D.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
The proposal the two companies have in mind embodies:
(a) A fixed quantitative maximum for stock-holding.
(b) Guarantees and security in regard to future busi-
ness on the lines of the ive Point Memorandum
(c) An arrangement so that a dangerous precedent would
not be set for other countries.
A possible means of meeting the cost of stock-holding
to comply with a fixed quentitative maximum and over-
coming the uanger of setting a precedent for other
countries would be the establishment of a new local
Storage Company.
Such a compiny would be indenendently owned and
opereted.
It would be financed preferably by Governnent arrange-
ment througn banks, or alternatively by public money,
and would carry quitable Government guarantees. The
loans, bonds or stocks involved in such an arrange-
ment would be gradually retired by the foreign oil
companies as the excess stocks of oil were reduced,
by increasing trade, towards the eguivalent of com-
merciel needs; and the connection of the foreign
oil compenies with the Storage Company would be
limited to a contractural obligation for the re-
tirement of the loans, bonds or stocks.
In making this suggestion and asking that, until it
has been further exnlored and developed, the Government
will continue to suspend the full operation of the pre-
sent Reguletions, the Directors of the two Companies
wish to emphesize that they appreciate fully the diffi-
culties that would be involved in changing the Lew and
Regulations to meet the wishes of the foreign Oil Com-
panies: nevertheless the Companies ere faced with com-
pliance with similar legislation elsewnere if the pre-
cedent is established in Japan and therefore they cannot
depart from the views they have previously expressed on
that aspect of the problem and have put forward the above
proposal which they hope will serve as a satisfectory
solution.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.  to despatch
No.1747 o1 Wa.20, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TO NEW YORK
FROM YOKOHAMA.
March 16/36
Referring to your telegram of Mar.7th Friends and we dis-
cussed subject with K & Y on Mar.llth. STOP. At the outset
K & Y thought storage plan would not be possible beceuse
such arrangement not necessary for native oil companies
and must treat all alike, and as storage company would be
unable to show profit unless it also embraced distribution,
but after riends and we had developed feasibility of the
plan, pointing out income of storage company would be gov-
erned by Goverument compensation for stockholdings which
we assume will be adequate to cover interest and profit
on capital invested K & Y acceoted e prepared outline
embodying your views and undertook to give further study
to matter and to let us know if they thought another dis-
cussion on this sub.ject would be worthwhile. STOP. Y
took this onportunity to inform us that
一
ONE
- Commerce Dept. must consider next querter quotas
before .ar. 20th., also must deal with applicetions for
additions to refining capacity from native oil com-
panies, notably Mitsubishi and Ninnon.
TWO
- If foreign compenies refuse to comnly with stock-
holdings requirements their Apr/June quotas will
heve to be cut, for although they will be technically
within the law until July Ist they have made no pre-
parations to comply and after July lst they will be
lieble to fines end to having their quotas cut down
one half.
THREE -Commerce Dept. must know well in advance of July lst
what to expect on the part of foreign companies.
FOUR
-If the situetion is such that it seems necessary for
Commerce Dept. to approve additional refining cepacity
Cover: ment can no longer be held to obligation re
allocating natural increase equally between refiners
and importers.
FIVE
-Government wishes to know in the event companies
quotas halved if companies will continue to operate and
carry stocks required by law on basis of reduced trade
and make up lost trade by selling finished products,
c.i.f. or will elect to withdraw. They point out
that in letter alternative if companies refuse to
sell wholesale either finished products or crude
the petroleum may get beyond a commercial issue and
Janan will have to make certain of sunnlies from new
sources . STOP. On ar. 13th representatives of America
end British Embassies mede joint call on K to emphasize
that

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
that ideas submitted by companies merit serious
censideration of Government. STOP. K professed
doubt as to usefulness of further discussions and
expressed opinion that negotiations deadlocked as
Goverrment could not finance the stockholding and
companies unwilling to do so fearing dangerous pre-
cedent. SToP. ..ith e view to keeping negotiations
open Embassy representatives put forward as their own
sugsestions:
Proposed storage company might e..brace agents of
both companies who by reason of their vital
interest in preserving quotes would only require
income to storage company sufficient to break
even.
(b)
Companies in return for renting of stocks from
storage compeny in order to comply with law might
consider peying small fee to storage company,
supplenenting covernment's compensation. STop.
K hes informed Dickover subsequently that he has
mentioned these points to Y whose first reaction
is that such an arrangement would not be admissible
under the lew, es ownership of stocks would not
rest with foreign companies, nevertheless K sug-
gests that if London and ew York agree Friends
and we develop idea with Y. STOP. riends and we
are of the opinion that rental of stocks should
admit of technical compliance with law and we both
consider that development of your storage company
suggestion eabodying (a) & (b) offers possible
practical solution if Government is willing to make
arrangement which will allow foreign companies to
continue trading under present status. SToP. Therefor
we recommend that you agree we discuss with Y further,
making it clear that we require Government to ar-
range necessary loan from the Banks and their
guarantee of contractual obligation STOP. If this
is not accepted we must conclude, as we now suspect,
that Government has in mind utilizing our unwilling-
ness comply with law to force us into employing
Japanese capital and selling wholesale or with-
drawing graduelly to suit their plans. STop. This
would be consistent with strong national polioy and
increase state control of industry now anticipated
on the part of new Government. STOP. To our
surprise N & J's calculations indicate Gasoline
produced by hydrogenation could compete with
locally refined or imported with only modest subsidy
easily recovered by increasing duty to a small
extent.
Therefore.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
Therefore we see possibility of Government acquiring
hydrogenation not only as security but also to supplant
imported gasoline with consequence also that notwith-
standing guarantees it may take longer than hitherto
estimated to liquidate storage company under quantita-
tive maximum arrangement. SToP. For N's calculations
please refer to his telegram to The Hague via London
today.
C.C. K.C.
Shanghei
HongKong.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.83)
Apr1l 21 1958
1211
Ramden.
The sesgetary ef stete refere to the Degertment's
pretsn o. l29e of areh 29, 100e, n to yoevins
894.6363/268
 mess, to the iai e the edee,
orpéee of coseeyandence end mamerende as indieated
/268
266

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.24/140
Letter
SEE
FOR
894.6363
President
Early
▲pr11 2, 1936
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Proposal of Mr. John Lee Byrnes for the organization of an oil
company to produce and refine oil to supply demands of Japan,
2
9
with special referenee to advantages to Japan during time of
6
war: Outline of-,
2
9
FRG.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.628/333
de 3464
SEE
FOR
Mexico
Daniels
Aoril 10, 1936
FROM
--) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.6363
REGARDING: Remarks made by the departing Japanese Minister to a
member of the Embassy regatding interest of Japan
in Mexican petroleum. Minister commented on source
of petroleum in Japan.
3/270
FLA
2

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr1l 23, 1936.
Tokyo's 1757 of April 1 recounts develop-
ments in the situation created by the oil
law in Japan.
The Japanese authorities have refused
to reconsider the oil storing provisions of
the law. The foreign oil companies have
refused to comply with the storage require-
ments because of the precedent which such
compliance would create. Consequently the
foreign oil companies are preparing to
consider some kind of arrangement with
the Mitsui interests, ranging from a simple
storage company organized with Mitsui
capital, to an outright sale of the entire
importing and distributing business of
the Standard-Vacuum and Rising Sun companies.
The Japanese authorities are obviously
pleased by this development, and have offered
to take no action adverse to the interests of
the foreign companies until at least July 1.
The British Ambassador and Mr. Grew have
agreed to withhold making representations
for the time being.
You may wish to glance through the
memorandum of conversation between officials
of Mitsui and of the foreign oil companies
WT (enclosure No. 3).
WTT/DLY

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1757.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 1, 1936.
▲pril 29 1936
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL DNTERESTS DN JAPAN.
Coby & Ludm
EPA ATE
news
SRY
0F SIE
AC/
Iondon
894.6363/271
13
89
DEPAPTF
sile
JUNE
Th
Ionorable
Livision of
FAR FALRN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State
Washington.
Departmept of Stote
S
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
268
No. 1747
dated March 20, 1936, and to previous corres-
pondence on the subject of the difficulties being ex-
perienced in Japan by the American and British oil in-
FILED
terests under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report
the following developments in the situation.
1936
As the Department is aware, the Japanese authorities
have remained firm in their determination to adhere to
the provision in the Petroleum Industry Law and its en-
forcing regulations which requires oil importers and
refiners to carry in stock six months' supplies of oil,
while
11

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
while the Standard and Shell interests as firmly re-
fused to store this amount of oil, because of the
undesirable precedent which it would create. Conse-
quently the local representatives of the oil interests
and the Japanese authorities were exploring the possibi-
lities of organizing a separate storage company, with
Japanese governmental capital, private capital, or the
capital of the present Japanese agents of the foreign
oil companies, to carry the non-commercial stocks of
oil for the Standard and Shell interests, when the head
offices of the two oil interests in New York and London
suddenly altered their position and decided to utilize
the Mitsui interests in some as yet undefined way as
a medium through which to avoid the necessity of carry-
ing the non-commercial stocks. Instructions to approach
the authorities and the Mitsui interests with the proposi-
tion were telegraphed to the local representatives on
March 17. A copy of the cablegram received by the local
representative of the Standard-Vacuum interests on the
1/
subject is enclosed.
It will be observed that the instructions as received
by the local representatives are somewhat vague, the only
clue to the plans in the minds of the directors of the oil
interests being contained in the phrase:
"We cannot at this stage suggest nature
of deal which may be done with Mitsui but the
two companies will be prepared to go into
the whole question of oil business in the
hope of finding a solution of present impasse.
This would appear to imply that, having given up hope of
inducing

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
inducing the Japanese Government to alter the storage
regulations, the oil interests are prepared to consider
any form of arrangement with the Mitsui interests, rang-
ing from a simple storage compuny organized with Mitsui
capital, to an outright sale of the entire importing
and distributing business of the two companies. The
intentions of the head offices not being clear, the
local represent tives telegraphed for further instruc-
tions, from which it developed that the head offices did
not have in mind a complete merger of the two oil com-
panies with the Mitsui interests, but instead sone sort
of contractual rel tionship which would preserve the in-
dividual identity of the three parties.
On March 23, 1936, the local representatives of the
oil interests called on Nr. Kurusu, of the Foreign Office,
and briefly outlined the plans of their companies to him
and to Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minister for Commerce and
Industry, who was present. A memoranaum of the conversa-
2/
tion is enclosed. The two officials were obviously pleased
with the plan of making some arrangement with Japanese
capital, and Mr. Yoshino volunteered to continue to with-
hold approval of the pending applications for new refineries
in Japan and to grant the foreign oil interests the same
quotas for the second quarter of the year as had been
given for the first quarter. He could not, however, offi-
cially state that he would suspend the regulations after
July 1, 1936 (when the foreign oil companies are supposed,
under

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
under the law, to have six months' stocks of oil in
storage) but he said that he would endeavor to meet
the wishes of the foreign oil com anies in tnis respect.
This latter roint was brought up b: the local representa-
tives of the oil comianies because, even should a satis-
factory arrangement be concluded with the itsui interests
before July 1, 1936, it would obviously be physically
impossible to erect the neces ary storage facilities by
that time.
In the meantime both this Embassy and the British
E bassy in Tokyo had received authorization to support
the proposal of the foreign oil inter sts by making re-
presentations to the Japanese Foreign Office, with a
view to obtaining suspension of the oil storage regula-
tions until the proposed negotiations with the Mitsui
interests have been concluded. As, however, the plans of
the foreign oil interests were very well received by the
Japanese authorities, who voluntarily offered to take
no action adverse to the interests of the foreign oil
companies at least until after July 1, the British Am-
bassador and I agreed that it would be best to withhold
our representations for the time being, reserving our
ammunition for use later should it become necessary or
desirable to ask for suspension of the regulations after
July 1, 1936. The local representatives of the oil in-
terests concurred in this opinion. They felt that diplo-
matic representations, if made immediately after their
interview with the Japanese officials, might imply a
lack of confidence by the oil companies in the good faith
of

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
of the officials with whom they had discussed their
plans and therefore might serve to alienate the support
of the officials, instead of enlistin such support.
On March 26, 1936, the local representatives of the
oil interests called on Mr. anjo, anacinc Director of
the Mitsui Gomei Kaisha, and r. Tajima, Vice Fresident
of the itsui Bussan Kaisha, and presented the proposal
of their head offices. A memorandum of the conversation
3/
is enclosed. The Mitsui representatives appeared to be
genuinely interested in the proposal, but expressed a
desire that the negotiations between authorized representa-
tives of both sides take place in Tokyo rather than in
New York. They stated,however, that they would discuss
the proposal with Ir. Mukai, Managing Director of the
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha (the trading department of the Mitsui
interests) and wouid later inform the local representatives
of the oil interests of their considered opinion.
At the time of writing no reply has been received by
the oil companies from thc Mitsui interests.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Copy of Cablegram, Standard-
Vacuum, New York, to Standard-Vacuum, Yokohama.
2/ Memorandum of Conversation of March 23, 1936.
3/ Memorandum of Conversation of Larch 26, 1936.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No.1757 of Qout 1,1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY OF CABLE FROM NEW YORK,dated March 19, 1936.
Re your telegram l6th Merch after full discussion with
Friends we have come to the conclusion that any ar-
rangement whoreby an association of dealers would be
used for the rurpose of stock-keepint law would be ob-
jectionable for the following reasons:-
Firstly In all probability it would not be favored
by Government.
Secondly It would turn comparatively weak body of
men into strong united unit which under wrong
leadership could be extremely harmful to our business.
Thirdly As Standard Vacuum Oil Company in any case
have close associations with Mitsui, natural thing
would be for them to amplify this association rather
than turn to other Japanese nationals.
Therefore it seems to us that Mitsui may offer medium
through which something could be done and we agree to
develop these ideas if you and Friends' representative
concur.
In such case we suggest you have informal conversation
with Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino in conjunction with your
Imbassies (and) suggest they continue to suspend operations
of present regulation until the whole matter can be studied
in New York between an authorized representative of Mitsui
and representatives of our two Companies to determine
whether

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
whether mutual satisfactory arrangements can be made.
If you find that Government are prepared to co-operate
in such programme, you should then take up with Mitsui
in order that they would ppoint representative and
arrange date of meeting.
We quite understand Government is naturally reluctant
to alter legislation, but on the other hand Companies,
confronted as they are now almost daily with demands
from other Governments for stock-keeping, cannot possi-
bly create precedent by conforming.
We cannot at this stage suggest nature of deal which
may be done with Mitsui but the two Companies will be
prepared to go into the vhole question of oil business
in the hope of finding a solution of present impasse.
You and Friends' representative should consider whether
it would be preferable to approach Mitsui first in order
to obtain their agreement and possibly their assistance
with Government, after which you could have informal
talks with Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino in conjunction with
Embassies, suggesting that they continue to suspend opera-
tion of present regulations until the whole matter can be
studied in New York. However we give you full discretion
as to approaching Government officials first or Mitsui
first, but we wish to emphasize that from the very be-
ginning you should make clear the subsequent proposed moet-
ing should take place in New York as this offers only
practical place for early negotiations considering parties
interested.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No.1757
ofepil1,1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes on conversation at Foreign Office
on March 23, 1936
PRESENT:
Mr. Kurusu (Chief of Bureau of Cormercial Af-
fairs, Foreign Office)
Mr. Yoshino (Vice Minister of Commerce & In-
dustry)
Messrs. Ely (R.S.P. Co.) and Meyer (S.V.O.C.)
Messrs. Meyer and Ely opened the conversation by
referring to their last meeting with Messrs. Kurusu and
Yoshino when the proposal of an independent Storage
Company had been discussed. Since then, they knew, r.
Kurusu had had a talk with Mr. Dickover of the U.S.
Embassy and Mr. Macrae of the British Embassy, in the
course of which certain suggestions had been made towards
the further development of the proposal. These suggestions
had been discussed by cable with London and New York who
had, however, for various reasons come to the conclusion
that probably the best medium through which something
might be accomrlished was a strong established concern
like Mitsuis, with whom for some time Mr. Meyer's Company
had had business connections.
Mr. Yoshino, ( speaking in Japanese) interpolated that
he also had been examining carefully the independent
Storage Company proposal which had been discussed at a
recent inter-Departmental meetin6. Moreover he had thought
of Mitsuis in that connection. The position as he saw it
was that, in regard to Heavy Oil, Mitsuis were a lready
licensed importers: and, if they assumed the stock-keeping
obligations of the two foreign companies, from the official
standpoint it  as only a question of increasing Mitsuis'
quota, the foreign Companies making some private arrange-
ment with Mitsuis as to ow that quota should be distributed.
Gasoline, however, raised quite a different problem, as he
understood that Mitsuis were not licensed to import and,
in fact, did not exist officially.
Messrs. Mayer and Ely confirmed that this was so, and
went on to say that their Principals appreciated the various
difficulties involved in the situation. In their last
cables London and New York had said that they quite under-
stood that the Government was reluctant to alter the Law
but that, on their own side, matters had reached a point
where they were being confronted almost daily with stock-
keeping demands from other countries and they could not
possibly create a precedent in that respect: they felt,
however, that a solution of this impasse might be found
in an arrangement with Mitmuis. New York and London could
not at the moment suggest the nature of the deal which
might

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
might be made, and they wished Messrs. Ely and Meyer
first to put the suggestion informally ber re Messrs.
Yoshino and Kurusu; if the latter agreed and the Govern-
ment was prepared to co-operate, London and New York were
willing to go into the whole situation with Mitsuis and
see what arrangement could be evolved.
Messrs. Yoshino and Kurusu at once signified approval,
Mr. Yoshino saying that, pending developments, he would
continue to withhold approval of the applications that had
been made for increased refining facilities, and that the
two companies' trade quotas for April/June would not be
reduced. Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino then asked if Mitsuis
had been approached, in reply to which Meesrs. Meyer and
Ely replied in the negative explaining that it vas their
Principals' idea first to obtain the understanding of the
Government and then to approach Mitsuis with a view to ar-
ranging as soon as possible a conference in New York.
After conferring together for some time Messrs. Kurusu
and Yoshino embarked upon a long discussion as to the advi-
ability of the two foreign companies coming to any arrange-
ment with any individual Japanese concern. It would, they
said, be a very big undertaking and Messrs. Ely and Meyer
must be aware of the present tendency in certain quarters
to pillory "big business". Besides Mitsuis there were
other Japanese concerns which might be interested - for
example Sumitomo, Okuras and, in particular, the Aikawa
group. The latter Mir. Yoshino knew well through Baron
Ito who was a personal friend: they controlled the Nippon
Sangyo, which had some petroleum production in the Empire
but no sales organization and consequently might be a suit-
able partner for a working arrangement with the two foreign
companies. Another possible arrangement would be for the
two companies to consider making separate deals with dif-
ferent Japanese interests. Again, Mitsuis, were big people
but they might not wish nor be able to avoid taking into
consideration some of the "smaller fellows" who also were
inter sted in the petroleum industry. There was, too,
another aspect of the situation: the two foreign companies
were working closely together in regard to an arrangement with
a Japanese concern in connection with stock-holding and
did not this point to further co-operation and rationaliza-
tion in respect to distribution and sales organization? As
Messrs. Ely and Meyer knew, Mr. Yoshino himself felt that a
great deal of economy could be effected in that direction
and in connection with the Gasoline price question the
Government was constantly hearing a lot of criticism of the
duplication and waste involved in the present system of
sales and distribution.
However, Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino did not press these
points and showed very patently their satisfaction with the
proposal that Mitsuis should be approached: they confirmed
that the Government would co-operate, Mr. Yoshino suggesting
that he might be able to assist by approaching Mitsuis, who
undoubtedly would eventually consult his Department. It
was finally agreed, however, that in view of the S.V.O.C.'s
c1ose

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
close connection with Mitsuis it would be more becoming
for the first move to be made by the two Companies direct,
and Messrs. Meyer and Ely undertook to see Mitsuis at
the first opportunity with a view to arranging a conference
in Ne: York as soon as ossible. Messrs. Yoshino and
Kurusu counselled them to be carcful in their approach
and not to work through  de artment but to go straight
to Mr. Tajima, if not to r. Ikeda himself.
In conclusion Messrs. Ely and Meyer said thut in
the circumstances they anticiiated that Mr. Yoshino would
be able to arrange to suspend the operation of the present
Regulations after July 1st. Mr. Yoshino dij not see how
he could, as the Law was in force and ther Was public
opinion to be considered, as well as the Diet: he suggested
that the fine entailed by a br ach of the Law was very small.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer pointed out that, if negotiations to-
wards a solution of the problem were in progress it would
be comparatively easy for the Government to meet the Diet
and satisfy public opinion. Mir. Yoshino agreed, but in his
official capacity he could give no undertaking in reply to
the Companies' request: unofficially, however, he was
even now considering ways and means" provided negotiations
with Mitsuis were begun quickly and progressed satisfactorily.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3.to despatch
No. 1757 of Cwul 1,1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation at Mitsui Gomei Kaisha
on March 26. 1936
PRESENT:
Mr. K. Nanjo Managing Director, Mitsui Gomei Kaisha
Mr. S. Tajima Vice President, Litsui Bussan Kaisha
Mr. Ely
(R.S.P. Co.)
Mr. Meyer
(S.v.O. Co.)
Messrs. Meyer and Ely explained that notwithstanding
the facts that Mr. Nanjo has advanced from the Presidency
of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha and is now Managing Director of
the Mitsui Gomei Kaisha and that the matter which the S.V.O.
Co. and R.S.P. Co. have to discuss would ordinarily be
broached with Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, they had come first to
Mr. Nanjo in this instance as Mr. Parker when here last
year met Mr. Nanjo and in his latest telegram from New York
on the matter concerned had made particular mention of r.
Nanjo. Mr. Nanjo remarked that he had asked Mr. Tajima of
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha to be present and that he regretted
that Mr. Mukai, Managing Director of Mitsui Bussan Kaisha,
was prevented from being present by the funeral of his
brother-in-law Mr. Yamamoto.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely went on to say that as Messrs.
Nanjo and Tajima know the two foreign companies have been
engaged in discussions with the Government for more than
a year in an endeavor to find a solution of their oil pro-
blem: that considerable progress has been made, the Govern-
ment having modified its attitude on several important points
and the Companies also having done their share toward ar-
riving at something mutually satisfactory; that there re-
mains, nevertheless, a serious difficulty to surmount, namely
the precedent of carrying non-commercial stocks. Amplifying
the latter Messrs. Meyer and Ely explained to Messrs. Nanjo
and Tajima that companies with worldwide organizations such
as Shell and Standard must take into consideration the
danger of establishing precedents in any country which, if
generally copied, would seriously cripple the resources of
the companies and emphasized that the two companies concerned
are almost daily confronted with demands by other Governments
for the carrying of non-commercial stocks.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely further stated that in an attempt
to overcome this difficulty of "precedent" various plans had
been brought forward and considered but finally the Directors
of the two companies had arrived at the conclusion that
they should avoid anything in the nature of a purely artifi-
cial set-up and should use as a medium some strong established
Japanese company; that accordingly the two companies thought
first of Mitsuis, especially in consequence of the S.V.O. Co.'s
long and pleasant association with them.
Messrs.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Messrs. Meyer and Ely made it clear that their
Principals have not yet arrived at a concrete plan and
that it is the idea of the Directors of the two companies
that whatever course is finally taken should be worked
out by the three interested parties together in conference.
Continuing on this point Messrs. Meyer and Ely stressed
the necessity of quick action and the consequent strong
feeling on the part of the Directors that best results
can be accomplished through Mitsuis sending a fully quali-
fied representative witn the necessary authority to New
York, where the whole oil question can be thoroughly gone
into with a view to effecting some deal that is mutually
satisfactory.
Mr. Tajima manifested doubt as to the practicability
of holding such a conference in New York, mentioning that
difficulties might arise in trying to settle matters at
such a distance from the Commerce Department. Messrs. Meyer
and Ely replied that their Directors anticipate that any
representative chosen by Mitsui will confer fully with
the Commerce Department, and any other Government Departments
that should be consulted, prior to his departure. Mr.
Tajima thought that no Mitsui director could et away on
short notice and feared that five weeks might elapse before
a representative could reach New York. Messrs. Meyer and
Ely countered that equal if not greater delay would also be
involved should Directors of the two Oil Companies come to
Japan; that moreover New York is the more central of the
cities involved and a conference there would entail a
long journey for only one party.
Mr. Nanjo suggested that the Directors determine some
plan and cable it to Japan for discussion here. Messrs.
Meyer and Ely endeavored to show that such a course would
be impractical for the reason that there are so many aspects
of the problem and possible propositions which warrant joint
study by all the Principals before anything concrete can be
undertaken.
Mr. Nanjo suggested that a joint company would serve
the purpose. Mr. Tajima at once pointed out that, what-
ever other arrangements are ma e, the stock-holding must
be performed by Japanese capital as otherwise the foreign
companies will not escape the precedent which they are
seeking means to overcome. Messrs. Meyer and Ely agreed that
Japanese capital must appear in that capacity. ir. Tajima
said that in his opinion there is a wide range of possibili-
ties open to the three parties - at one extreme is simply a
storage company and at the other a complete merger. He
wished to give the matter more thought and to talk with Mr.
Mukai. He t ought perhaps he would be able to have a talk
with Mr. Mukai tomorrow. He agreed to let Messrs. Meyer
and Ely know their considered opinion.
Early in the discussion Messrs. Meyer and Ely informed
Mossrs. Nanjo and Tajima that the idea of using Mitsui as
a medium has been discussed with Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino
who

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
who are favorably disposed to such co-operation. Also,
in reply to the question as to whether in the course
of negotiations with the Companies, the Government had
been entirely adamant in regard to the six months' stock-
holding stipulations of the Law, Messrs. Meyer and Ely
said that, although they had been told nothing officially,
they hau gathered that the lovernment had in mind fixing
a quantitative maximum limit which would obviate the in-
creasing obligation involved in the present regulations.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
april 29 1936
CLASSTFICATIGH CANCELIED Arttority: letter
.1222
of 5.20-64 from Donaid 1. Simon, Stat: Dept.
By 8acwle Dole 3// /62
Te the Ameriean Ambassader,
Lemden.
894.6363/271
The Beeretary ef State refers to the Department's
instrustiem No. 1ell of April 21, l9s6, and to previous
esrrespendence in regard to the eil situatiem in Japem
and emeleses, fer the information of the Ambaseméer, a
eepy of despateh No. 1757 mder date April 1, 1906, with
its emelesures, from the American Ambessader at Tekye.
Enelosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1757, Apr11 1, 1936,
with onelosures.
894.6363/271
FE:RCM: EJL
FE
4/28/36

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
CHH
FE
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
(aca)
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
April 2, 1936.
JAPAN
Achi'd
3 1936
APR
3m
894.6362
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State
Department of State,
4/20/20
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I enclose copy of an article
from the New York Journal of last evening.
As
894.6363/272
this comes from Washington, I am wondering if you
can throw any light on it or make any comments.
Sincerely yours,
PWP:H
Enclosure -
AF 21 1936
FILED

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
Open Door Violation'
U. S. AND BRITISH OIL FIRMS MAY WITHDRAW FROM JAP M..RKET
'Oil Conservation' Law Seen Forcing the Issue
PROTESTS LODGED
By Walter Fitzmaurice
Washington, April 1, (Us).- A climax within two weeks w.s loreshadowed
today in the tense British-american diplom tic maneuvers to plug threat-
ened sapping of their  il  eserves by the Japanese wer machine.
The State Depurtment disclos the  irota overnment was
setting the stage for a s owdown ub it ..pril l) by initiatin: enforce-
ment of Japan's hi hly controversal "oil conservation" law.
Though an immense commercial m:rket is at stake, the  mer-
ican and British oil titans, Jocony-Vacu un and oyal utch shell, have
indicated they will abandon thcir Japanese investment sooner th n submit
to the meusure.
FOR FUEL RESERVES.
In effect, it would drain millions of tons of crude from
American Continental and British .siatic fields to provide fuel reserves
for the Japanese battle fleet and her mechanized troops in hina and
Manchukuo.
Ostensibly there is no discrimin tion between domestic and
forein connanies d in business in Japan.
The law reqlires e ry oii distributor to store the equiva-
lent of 50 per cent or its un ual Japanese sules of crude oil, usoline
and iubricants.
stored supp. ies are su ject to purchuse without notice by
the Japanese governnent t a "fair m rket price" to be deternined by the
government.
'The compenies themselves must ereet the storage tanks and
pay the enormous interest an insurance charges. merican storage, based
on 1935 imports, would be apnroximately ci ht million barrels, the
British about four million.
PROTEST "VIOLATION".
Upholders of the Cpen Door in China, the State Department
and the British Foreign Office lodged firm protests aginst Japanese ex-
propriation of a vital natural resource to pursue her violation of the
Open Door principle.
The term "conservation" was declared a misnomer, the Japan-
ese domestic production being negli ible. But the Japanese dmiralty
and the War Office refused to budge.
If the foreign companies withdrew, they pointed cut, a
German dehydration process for c nverting coal into gasoline could be
utilized for the air force. Lhe oil-burning fleet could be converted
back to coal.
Britain, the Japanese pointed out, thought enough of the
process to subsi ize its experimental use by British Imperial Chemicals,
Ino. The method was provi in ermany 50 per cent of her liquid fuel.
Soviet Russia is reported sharing Germany's interest in the
outcome. Moscow is said to be ready to supply any Japanese deficiency
resulting from withdrawal of the American and British companies.
NEW YORK AMERICAN - 4/2/36.
L

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.93)
April 3, 1996.
Bear Mr. Pertert
894.6860/272
I have befere me your letter wnder date April 2,
l90s, with whish there was transmitted a copy of an
artisle frem the NEW YORK JOURNAL of APril 1.
I had mot seen this artiele and I very greetly
89
appresiate your hevins brought it to my attention.
4
with whet I would imagine is great self-restraint, you
9
indisate a desire to mow whether I ean throw any light
3
9
on it or make any comments; you refrain, at the same
3
time, frem offerimg any comment. In the course of this
2
7
day, I have learned a good deal about the antecedents
2
to the publioation of the artiole under referemee.
I shall try to give you within a few days both = state-
ment of fact and an account of my opinion in the
promises. In the interval, I can assure you that were
I to express at this moment my opinion of the artiole,
my words would, I think, shook even an old China hand.
Yours sinceroly,
k Hruba te
r. Philo . Parker,
Standard-Vaouum O1l Company,
26 Broadway,
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
Now York, Now York.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
1
April 6, 1956.
PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear M. Parker:
enclosure, receipt of which I acknowledged briefly in my
letter to you of April 3, --
I note your statement that the artiole to whioh you
rofer appeared in the NEW YORK JOURNAL. At the same time,
89
I note that the copy which you gave me indicates that the
94.6363/272
quotation was from the NEW YORK AM RICAN. A condensed re-
print of portions of the article has appeared in the
WASHINGTON TIMES of Apr1l 2. Both of these papers are of
the same syndicate. I find no reference whatever to this
matter in any other cliprings that  )ave from the current
ress. The matter does not seem to have exoited any inter-
est in the minds of ccrresrondents whom we meet hore at
the e artme: t; none of them other than the author of the
article under reference has given any indication of any
interest in tre metter for sometime vost, and none of them
has aaid anything about tris articlo.
1th
Kr. liic  arter,
26 oadway,
New York. w York.
Condna 

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
一8 -
with rogard te your inquiry, --
About four months ago, there were prepared im the
Politieal Divisiens of the Department upen request by eme
of the higher offieers of the Department memerande giving
accounts of various of the problems with whieh the Divisiens
were dealing. Later certain paragraphs were taken from some
of these memoranda by another offiee in the Department and
without boing rereferred to the Divisions concerned were
imeorporated in a statement in regard to the administration
of the Department and to the business being tranmeeted by
1t, whieh statement was read by the Seoretary of State on
robruary 8, luz6, at a hearing on the Appropriation Bill
for 1937 before the Suboommittee of the House Committee on
Appropriations. The text of one of these paragraphs was
as follows:
"In Japan the problem of effeoting proteetion
to Amorioan citizens and their interests calls to-
day for a great deal more thought and attention
than it did several years ago. with our inoreased
relations with Japan questions have beoome not only
more numerous but also more dirficult. The problems
ereated by Japanese legislation whioh place onerous
burdens upon foreign oil companies and Americans
doing business in Japan have had our constant
attention as has the question of safeguarding Amori-
can automobile interests in oonneetion with the
approval by the Japanese Goverment of a poliey
whioh if implemented would operate to encourage
Japanese manufeoturers at the expense of the two
largo Amerioan firms at present holding leading
positions in the automobile industry in Japan."
The report of the hearing before the Suboommittee was
made publio on April 1. The writer of the artiole under
referenoe prmptly called on several ofricers of the
Department and was given a brier aeoount of the provislons
o

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
of the Japemese ell law, whieh as you kmew, have already
bess dsssribed in the press on sereral escasiens, tegether
with same figures in regard te the produstien in Japem of
petreloum. He was prebably given too mueh, but he was
definitely met given in the Department material fer what
beseme the sensational statmsents in the artiele which he
produeed.
We have eonsistently deolined to disouss with repre-
sentatives of the press the position taken in regard to the
Japamese petroleum law by the Amerioan Government or by the
oil eampanies, and we have disoouraged in overy way possible
the giving by the press of gratuitous publioity to this
matter, for the reason that the matter is under negotiation
between the oil companies and the Japanese Govermment. In
this partioular instanee the writer of the artiole, who has
been remonstrated with for the sensational and unwarranted
treatment of the material whioh was the starting point on
whioh he based his artiole, has expressed regret and
willingness to prepare another artiole designed to correet
any misapprehension whioh may have been caused by his
artiole under reference. We assume that you will feel as
do we that it would be preferable that no correotion be
1ssued. We are also taking additional precautions against
contribution by the Department to any 1ll-advised publioity in
referenoe to the oil situation in Japan, and we will continue
to

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.88)
to make every effort to prevent there emaneting from the
Department aay material which may be used as a basis for
publicity injurious to the interests of any of the parties
concerned.
Yours sincerely,
FE
T:RA/DLY
E

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Washington Times
APR 2 1936
OIL SHOWDOW
WITH JAPAN
DUESOON
A climax within two weeks was
foreshadowed today in the tense
British-American diplomatic ma-
neuvers to plug threatened sap-
ping of oil reserves by the Jap-
anese.
The State Department disclosed
the Hirots government was setting
the stage for a showdown about
April 15 by initiating enforcement
of Japan's highly controversial
"oll conservation" law.
American and British oil titans,
Socony-Vacuum and Royal Dutch
Shell, have indicated they will
abandon their Japanese invest-
ment sooner than submit to the
measure, which would drain mil-
lions of tons of crude from Amer-
ican Continental and British Asi-
atic fields to provide fuel reserves
for the Japanese battle fleet and
her mechanized troops in China
and Manchukuo.
Ostensibly there is no discrim-
ination between domestic and for
eign companies doing business in
Japan.
The law requires every oil dis-
tributor to store the equivalent of
50 per cent of its annual Japanese
sales of crude oil, gasoline and
lubricants.
Stored supplies are subject to
purohase without notice by the
Japanese government at a "fair
market price" to be determined
by the government.
37

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.95)
Apr1l 18, 1956.
PURSONAL
Dear Mr. Parker:
I revert to my letter of April 6, in which I gave
you a statement of faot and an account of my opinion with
regard to a story on the oil situation in Japan issued on
April 1 by the Universal Service.
894.6363/272
There has just ceme to my attention an article en-
titled "Foreign Oil Companies in Japan Face Impasse", in
the Mareh 18 issue of the FAR FASTERN SURVEY, publiahed
by the American Council, Institute of Pacific Relations,
129 East 52nd Street, New York City.
In enolosing a copy of that article, I might state
that, so far as we have been able to ascertain, there has
not come to the Department from the Institute of Pacifio
Relations at any time any request, either written or oral,
for information in regard to the sub lect of Japan's oil
problem.
Yours sincerely,
A. touhe
Enclosure:
Copy of article.
Mr. Frilo V. Parker,
Standard-Vacuum 1l Company,
26 Broadway,
11
New York, New York.
FERAD/DLY
FE
4-18-36

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
SOURCE:
PAR RASTERE SURVEY,
March 12, 1936.
POREION OIL COMPANIES IN JAPAN PACE
IMPASSE
The stalemate between the Japanese Government and the
fereign eil eompanies im Japan continues, with no indieation
yet as to how the difrieulty will be resolved. The poimt of
eemfliet is the provision of the Oil Lew of l9s4 which, in
addition to regulating the import and refining of oil by
liesnse, required all companies operating in Japen to in-
erease their usual storage of petrolem products from a two
er three months' supply to one adequate for six months. The
Japanese companies complied, built the necessary additional
tankage, and inoreased their imports to the desired point.
The attitude of the foreign companies, however, has been
that they do not need this additional storage space to carry
on their business. When they had not met the provisions by
the date originally set, Cotober 1, 1935, the time l1mit was
finally extended to the end of June, l936. Negotiations are
still going on between Japanese officials and foreign companies,
most important of which are the Standard Oil and the Rising
Sun. As yet no move has been reported that would indioate the
wishes of the government are being met.
The situation would seem to be approaching an impasse,
for Japan is vitally in need of the assurance of contimuing
foreign supplies of the mineral whioh is so essential to her
industrial development and national defense, for she can
supply only a small percentage from domestic sources. (See
our Memorandum on Japan's Cil Problem, Deo. 21, 1934) At the
same time, the British and American companies, which have
built up a lucrative business cver a long perlod of years,
will hardly want to relinquish their 50% share of the Japanese
market, even though they are not propared to go to the expense
and risk of providing extra tankage which they feel they do
not need.
Now, as from the first of 1936, the Department of Com-
meroe and Industry has fixed marketing quotas for the various
companies on the basis of their actual sales in 1935, these
quotas to be effective until the end of Yaroh. On the basis
of an estimated 13 1norease in demand, all of the potential
increase in gasoline sales, some 140,C00 kls., hns been
allotted to Japanese companies. It is understood that if the
foreign companies meet the requirements by the end of Larch,
20,00 kls. estimated increase will bo transferred to their
quotas.
ne

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.95)
一 8 -
Ome mekmowledged objeet of this procedure, beyemd the
stwious ose of assuring a ready sapply in ease of emergeney
Sa to emeeurage Japanese sompanies to develup to the fulls
whish the oil scmpanies hope to obtain from their obeervanse
ef the Lew's provisions is a substantial inerease in the
priee of gasoline, whioh because of severe sompetition has
been Jower in Japan than anywhere else in the world.
Even complete enforoement of the six-months' storage
clause of the law would be small ssourity against a national
amergeney of any duration. Ever keenly aware of their
critleal need in this respect, the Japanese are constantly
seeking to intensify prospeoting at bome and abroad. They
ars at present interested in Timor Island (Portuguese), off
the north coast of Australia, which has requested bids for
oil prospeoting coneessions. The Japan Petroleum Company
and Mitsul Bussan Kaisha are once again to prospeet in Borneo
and Netherlands India, where their 3,500,000 investment in
the past has led to nothing, in spite of borings to a depth
of 1.300 meters. The North Saghalien Petroleum Company
during 1935 is reported to have increased its produotiom
from 300 to nearly 500 tons a day, and was credited with
130,000 tons production for the year. Its plams for 1956
Involve an expenditure of 14,000,000, part of which will go
toward prospeoting 22 new wells.
C.P.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
WAY
KaCEIVED
April 8, 1936.
APR 13 1936
DIVIDIUN UF
Divisidn of
894.6363272
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 1 0 1936
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Department of State
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
4/20136
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Many thanks indeed for your letter
894.6363/273
of April 6th, not to mention your previous note on
this question which I genuinely appreciated.
I heartily endorse the views ex-
pressed on pages 3 and 4 of your letter of April 6th
with respect to the policy on publicity in connection
with the oil companies' present difficulties in Japan.
This policy is one which we have also pursued and one
which we deem to be essential so long as the question
is under negotiation. In fact, when Mr. Walden and I
left Japan a year ago at the completion of our negotia-
tions there, at the request of the Japanese Government
both parties agreed that publicity was undesirable and
that we would refrain from issuing any statements to
the press. I am naturally pleased to see that our
views are in such close harmony with yours.
Sincerely yours,
P. N. Parkerm
PWP:H
P.W.Parker
F/FG

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 19, 1936.
RCM:
SKH:
You will probably wish to read the
Embassy's despatch in regard to develop-
ments in the oil situation in Japan. The
despatch adequately outlines the two long
momoranda of conversation appended thereto.
894.6363/274
N州
WTT/DLY

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
ZE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1800.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 1, 1936.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
894.6363
M8:28 1936
PART
Zndm
894.6363/274
MAY
ASSISTANT SFCRFTARY
ivision of
AH LASTFAN AFFAIHS
MAY 181936
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
8946363771
No. 1757, dated April 1, 1936, and to previous correspondence
2
of the Petroleum Industry Law upon American oil interests,
Conversations.
Under date of April 10, 1936, the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
informed the local representatives of the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, by letter, that
"wo
FG

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
we regret we cannot entertain the proposal regarding oil
1/
storago". A copy of this letter is enclosed. The Mitsui
Bussan Kaisha, however, offered to explain the situation in
detail at a future meeting between the three interests. A
meeting was therefore arranged on April 14, 1936, at which
the Mitsui representatives explained that the Mitsui Bussan
Kaisha was definitely not interested in the proposal, if the
oil companies intended simply to utilize Mitsui as a storege
or warehousing medium, the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha being or-
ganized for trading purposes. When the Mitsui representa-
tives were asked, however, if they would be interested in
a wider arrangement involving trading on their part, they
stated that they would be. They asked, however, that the oil
companies make some more or less definite proposal, indi-
cating the arrangement which would be suitable to the oil
companies, and stated, moreover, that all negotiations must
take place in Tokyo and not in New York, as desired by the
2/
oil interests. A memorandum of this conversation is enclosed.
The local representatives of the oil interests tele-
graphed a summary of this conversation to their head offices,
but as yet no reply containing a proposal to be submitted
to the Mitsui interests has been received. On April 24,
Shin
1936, Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry,
asked the local representatives of the oil interests to call
upon him, and informed them that he was in an uncomfortable
position because of the pressure being brought on him by the
therefore

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
therefore hoped that the negotiations would be facilitated.
He also implied that the Mitsui interests, which were being
very cautious, might be more willing to proceed with the ne-
gotiations if the Japanese Government expressed a wish that
some arrangement be made. First, however, it would be
necessary for the oil interests to formulate some definite
proposal to which the Japanese Government could give its
3/ approval. A memorandum of this conversation is enclosed.
A brief sunmary of this conversation with the Vice
Minister for Commerce and Industry was also sent to the
headquarters of the oil interests.
Respectfullyyours,
Joseph C. Grew.
3
Enclosures: Copy of letter from Mitsui dated April 10, 1936.
Memorandum of Conversation of April 14, 1936.
Memorandum of Conversation of April 24, 1936.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY.
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 1800 of May 1, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
CONFIDENTIAL
TOKYO, April 10th, 1936.
Dear Mr. Meyer,
I am instructed by Mr. Nanjo to inform you that
we regret we cannot entertain the proposal regarding
oil storago made to him by you and Mr. Ely.
We must apologize for the delay in answering and
hope to be able to see you in near future to explain the
main reason how we came to above conclusion.
Yours sincerely,
(S'd) T. MUKAI.
Managing Director,
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No.1800 of May 1, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation at offioes of Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Tokyo,
on Apr11 14th. 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. S. Tajima
Vice President, M.B.K.
Mr. T. Mukai
Managing Director
Mr. Ely
R.S.P. Co.
Mr. Meyer
s-v. O.co.
Mr. Mukai arrived alone and opened the conversation by
stating that he regretted that he was unavoidably absent when
Messrs. Ely and Meyer had their talk with Messrs Nanjo and
Tajima and he went on to say that he understood that the two
oil companies had proposed that M.B.K. perform their stock-
holding.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer explained that the problem of
stock-holding had resulted in their Principals approaching
Mitsuis, and in this connection reiterated the statements
made to Messrs/Nanjo and Tajima, but made it clear that
London and New York are prepared to go into the whole question
of the oil business in the hope of finding a solution of the
present impasse.
During the course of the above conversation Mr. Tajime
joined the group and entered into the conversation with the
statement that if the oil companies have in mind utilizing
Mitsui only in a storage or warehousing capacity, Mitsuis
are definitely not interested as they are organized for
trading purposes.
This feature both Mr. Tajima and Mr. Mukai elaborated
upon at some length and gave Messrs. Ely and Meyer an opening
to enquire directly if Mitsuis would be interested in a wider
arrangement involving trading on their part. Both Mr. Tajima
and Mr. Mukai replied in the affirmative adding however that
they must make it clear at the outset that any negotiations
in connection with an arrangement must take place in Tokyo.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer repeated the reasons given to Messrs.
Nanjo and Tajima that make New York the most appropriate place
for holding discussions. Messrs. Tajima and Mukai countered
with the statement that in their opinion Tokyo is the obvious
place for the reason that it would be essential for them
to constantly keep in very close touch with the Government
(not only Commeroe Department but also Army) and moreover the
complexity of Mitsui's organization necessitates a great deal
of inter-departmental discussion. Mr. Mukai emphatically
stated that he would not go and Mr. Tajima quickly added
"neither will I under any ciroumstances".
Messrs.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Mossrs. Ely and Meyer stated that their Principals would
be very much disappointed to learn that such was their atti-
tude, whereupon Mr. Mukai remarked to the effect that even
if it means foregoing a deal with the oil companies Mitsui
cannot agree to negotiating in New York. Mr. Tajima then
stated that in their opinion any deal should be negotiated
in Japanese atmosphere. Messrs. Ely and Meyer reminded him
of the fact that the Principals of both companies with whom
Mitsui would deal in New York are persons familiar with Japa-
nese conditions and customs.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer sounded Messrs. Tajima and Mukai
as to their ideas of an arrangement. Messrs. Tajima and Mukai
asked that the companies refrain from "turning the tables"
on them and stated that since the companies are the experts
in the oil business it is fitting that they should advance
any proposals. Neither Mr. Tajima or Mr. Mukai would consent
to giving consideration to any arrangement until the com-
panies give a clearer indication of the daal which they would
favor.
Although Messrs. Tajima and Mukai steadfastly refused
to suggest any basis for an arrangement, they gave a clue to
their line of thought by pointing out that
(1) if stocks are held by a joint concern the companies
would not be getting rid of the precedent of holding
non-commercial stocks
(2) companies could not retain even reduced quotas in
their own name unless they themselves undertook
corresponding stock-holding obligations.
Messrs. Tajima and Mukai in the course of the conversation
professed inability to understand the attitude of the companies
regarding the danger of establishing a precedent of carrying
non-commercial stocks. They expressed the opinion that the com-
panies have not dealt with the problem in a practical manner
and consider that it would have been business like, if com-
pensation was considered inadequate, to request more and to
deal with each problem in various countries on its own merits.
This line of discussion occasioned Mr. Tajima to expound at
considerable length on what he termed the "philosophical
side" of the pil question, namely the scope for liberality on
the part of those possessing raw materials toward those who are
lacking in this respect. He predicted an increasing tendency
toward redistribution among the "haves" and "have nots" and
inferred that the oil industry clings to an obsolete attitude.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer listened politely and attentively but
reminded Mr. Tajima that the companies have no disposition
to deny oil supplies to Japan, a fact which is efidenced by their
presence in Mitsui's office to endeavor to find ways and means
of continuing to supply the country.
The discussion terminated with Messrs. Ely and Meyer
undertaking to advise their Principals of Mitsui's position as
expressed by Messrs. Tajima and Mukai.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3
to
despatoh No. 1800
of May 1, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes on Meeting at Shokosho on April 24th. 1936.
PRESENT1
Mr. Yoshino
Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry
Mr. Ely
R.S.P. Co.
Mr. Meyer
S-V. O.Co.
Mr. Yoshino began by saying that he personally was in an
uncomfortable position in regard to the applications which had
been made by the Japanese refiners for ertension of their faci-
lities. As Messrs. Ely and Meyer knew, he had postponed con-
sideration of those applications until the foreign companies'
negotiations had progressed further but he was being con-
tinually pressed and only last week had been epproached again.
Speaking in confidence, he said also that although he had not
sent in his resignation - the reports appearing in the news-
papers were wrong - he had now had nearly five years as Vice
Minister and had in mind resigning but, especially since Mr.
Kurusu's appointment to Brussels, it had devolved upon him to
clear up the situation that had arisen under the Petroleum Law -
a situation that was very complex because it involved not only
disoussions with foreign companies but also inter-Departmental
negotiations. He hoped therefore that the foreign companies'
problem would be solved quickly. In that connection, contrary
to his own expectation his Department had not been approached
by Mitsuis and he had therefore himself spoken to Mr. Mukai.
Apparently there has been some misunderstanding in regard to
the proposal put forward by the foreign companies.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer replied that, as Mr. Yoshino himself
knew when they approached Mitsuis, they did not propose any
specifio plan but after a rather long delay - which might have
been due in part to the changes which were reported to have been
taking place in Mitsuis internal organization - Mitsuis had re-
plied apparently on the understanding that it had been proposed
that they should act merely as stook holders, which they were
not willing to do: they had said, however, that they were
quite willing to consider some broader arrangement. Messrs.
Ely and Meyer had cabled to their principals in that sense and
were now awaiting replies from London and New York on receipt
of which they would be resuming their discussions with Mitsuis.
Mr. Yoshino said that he rather sensed that Mitsuis were
approaohing the Foreign companies'suggestion very cautiously,
not only from the standpoint of business pure and simple but
also because of the more general features to which Mr. Kurusu
and he had referred in their last conversation with Messrs. Ely
and Meyer. Mitsuis were liable to a good deal of public criticism:
he

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
he felt, for instance, that if Mitsuis made a deal with the
foreign companies and market prices went up the movement might
be associated with Mitsui's entry into the business and Mitsui
blamed. Messrs. Meyer and Ely suggested that, as the result
of the request that had been put forward already by the Japa-
nese Companies, prices surely would be raised substantially
to the proper level in the immediate future and long before
Mitsuis could be blamed? Mr. Yoshimo refused to be drawn,how-
ever, and went on to repeat that Mitsuis undoubtedly were
being very cautious: they might, however, modify their atti-
tude if they were told by the Gover ment that it wished the
arrangement to be made. He hoped that the two companies would
push on with the negotiations.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely assured Mr. Yoshino that they
would be seeing Mitsuis again immediately they received
replies, which they were expecting at any moment, to the
cables they had sent to London and New York as the result
of their last talk with Mitsuis.
The interview terminated with general conversation,
Mr. Yoshino reverting to his pet subject of the Companies'
attitude which he considered anachronistic, towards "con-
trolled economy" and also asking questions concerning the
trend of Crude Oil prices in U.S.A. Messrs. Meyer and Ely had no
special information on that subjeot, but were of the opinion
that, with the more correct balance between the prices of crude
and refined oils which had been brought about by the recent
advance in crude prices, the industry generally was in better
order and the tone of the market distinctly strong.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
0.1251
May 28 1936
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Lendon.
894.6365/274
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
imstruetiom No. 1222 of Apr1l 29, 1956, and to previous
sorrespondence in regard to the oil situatiom in Japan
and eneloses, for the information of the Ambassador, a
copy of despatoh No. 1800 under date May 1, 1936, with
its enelosures, from the American Ambassador at Tokye.
Knelosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1800, May 1, 1936,
with enclosures.
894.6363/274
SA#
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
5/26/36

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
山
STAINIDARQTVACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BR0ADWAY
1936 NAY 20  3 55
NEW YORK
May 12th, 1936.
zl
CNS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Division of
Department of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
lus
Washington, D. C.
4MAY 1 3 1936
Department of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
272
The reason for not replying before this
to your letter of April l8th, to which you kindly attached
a recent article in regard to the foreign oil companies in
Japan, is the fact that we have been endeavoring to check
894.6363/275
the source of the information appearing in the article.
It seems that the writer, Miss Catherine
Porter, secured most of her data from various oriental
publications, and that subsequently, according to her own
statement, she interviewed at least one of the oil companies
here in New York. As she says she is pledged to secrecy she
is unwilling to divulge anything in addition to the above.
However, we do know that this was not a matter of discussion
within our own company.
We wish to express our thanks to you for
your kindness in bringing this to our attention.
Sincerely yqurs,
. tarks
F/FG
11

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 4, 1936.
The Consul at Yokohama reports that
there have been discussions between a
German company in Yokohama, the Standard
Vaouum Oil Company, and the Japanese
Government in regard to the possible
setting up of a hydrogenation plant in
Japan. The despatch suggests indirectly
that these negotiations may not prove
successful.
It is possible that the negotiations
are entirely new, but it is more likely
that they are tied in with the conversations
between the foreign oil interests and the
Japanese Government in regard to which we
received reports several weeks ago.
894.6363/276
D7DLY

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.91)
to
Thaup Bur letler
209
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Yokohama, Japan, May 9, 1936.
STATE
07
2
ERDS
EVE
PAE
and
No
6
NO
msrili
1-1055
PLAIT III JAPA
14M
994.6243
Division
THE HONORABLE
FAR EASTEENS
2x8
NUN
894.6363/276
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to report that Ir. Joseph
Wilhelm Faegsler, who during 1933 and 1934, as a
representative of the German I. G. Farben Trust,
cooperated with the tandard Cil Company of New
er
in the construction at Baton Rouge of "hydro
JUN 10 1936
ts" for the catalytic hydrogenation of crude
RECORDIN
oil, has been in Japan for one year with Ahrens
and Company of Yokohama, representing I. G. Farben.
y
son of the interest of Ahrens and Company in
DEPAN 
0/50
S
with the intention of constructing plants
Inplpying that process in Japan primarily for the
S
raqupfaction of coal.
Mr.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Mr. Faessler's visit recently came to the at-
tention of the Consulate through the application of
Mrs. Faessler, a native American, for a passport.
She then stated that she and her husuand might leave
Japan at any time on s ort notice.
This statement
derives added significance from the course of the
three-cornered negotiations between the tandard-
Vacuum Oil Company, the Japanese Covernment, and
the I. G. Farben as represented by Ir. Taessler.
While this office is well aware of the fact
that the Department has been currently and com-
pletely informed concerning those negotietions and,
in particular, concerning the fact that the prc-
prietorship of the most essential patent rights in
the hydrogenation process is a matter not for the
disposal in Japan of either Airens and Company or
I. G. Farben, but rather for that of the so-called
"I. H. P." through the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, it is be-
lieved pertinent to stress from its strategical
point of view, the fact that opposing interests at
one time appeared to be vying with each other for
the privilege of making this scientific advance
available to the Japanese.
The apparent imminence of Mr. Faessler's de-
parture, and the probable loss in sales of German
machinery

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
machinery which constitutes the primary interest of
Ahrens and Company, do not appear to alter the fact
that a process which has emerged from the laboratory
to the field of practical commerce, appears to be
readily available when and if the oil companies and
the Japanese Government reach an greement on emer-
gency supplies of petroleum and, then, as soon as a
bargain may be struck for the acquisition rights in
Japan.
The Department is doubtless aware of the ad-
vance which the hydrogenation process represents in
high percentage recovery of combustion fuels from
coal as well as crude oil. The resulting fuel con-
tains hydro-carbons of benzine-ring and long-chain
structural formulas of the types which unuerlie the
term "high specific gravity" as cenerally, if loosely,
applied to high compression and aviation gasoline.
The cost of production by hydrogenation at either
low pressure or high pressure is sometimes said to
be the only factor remaining to hinder its wider
commercial use.
In order more closely and more intelligently to
follow any possible developments in the use of the
process in Japan, it is respectfully requested that
any available scientifio information concerning the
laboratory methods, including the nature of the cata-
lytic agent employed, variations of pressure and
temperature

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.93)
- 4 -
temperature and the application of electricity, as
well es cost and other factors in the commercial
application, be transmitted.
Very respectfully yours,
Qitlisc
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
869.6/834.7/892.55
GCM/rk
Beeel

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
PARTMENT OF STATE
BION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 23, 1936.
U.
hillips:
I think that you will
wish to read the despatch,
at least the end of page 4
and most of page 5.
SKH
SKH
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 20, 1936.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1860 of May 27,
1936, on the subject of American oil
interests in Japan should be read in full.
The despatch does not add much that is
new to what we know of the character of
the proposals discussed by the foreign oil
companies on the one hand and Mitaui on the
other, but one gains the impression that
the Japanese Government is eager to have
the foreign companies remain in Japan.
Note, for example, the statement of the
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry
that "of course the Government wants the
Foreign Companies to stay in Japan"; and
again "Mr. Yoshino expressed the hope that
Mitsu1 will not now cause further delay".
894.6363/277
EHD/DLY

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.93)
fole
Division ef
()
80
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF THE
JUN 15 1936
T
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Department of State
AMERICANEMBASSY
Tokyo, May 27, 1936.
894.6363
cotyLmdon
No. 1860.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
June 26 1936.
JIV1S
93 UM NN 57
COMUNICATIONS
N DS
Smkm
Cr
894.6363/277
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
washington.
Sir:
Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1800, dated
May 1, 1936, and to previous correspondence in regard to
the difficulties being experienced in Japan by the Ameri-
can and other foreign oil interests under the Petroleum
Industry Law, I have the honor to report the following
FILED
developments in the sttuation.
Negotiations mith the Mitsui Interests.
As was reported in despatch No. 1800, both the Mitsui
interests and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry of the
Japanese Government had asked the Standard and Shell oil
interests to evolve some concrete plan, which could be
F/FG
used as & basis for negotiations, for presentation to
itaui

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Mitsui. On May 14, 1936, the local office of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company received a cablegram from the New York
1/
headquarters, a copy of which is enclosed, containing the
outline of the plan evolved between New York and London
in regard to co-operation with Mitsui in the Japan market.
This plan contemplated the carrying by the Mitsui interests
of all the non-commercial stocks required by the Government,
for hich the Mitsui interests would receive the entire
compensation paid by the Gov rnment for stock-keeping
as well as some share of the foreign oil companies' business
in Japan. The oil companies would also make a permanent
supply contract with Mitsui, but in return asked that the
present volume quotas granted by the Japanese Government
be changed to percentage quotas. The cablegram proceeded
to point out the advantages of some such arrangement both
to the Japanese Government and to the oil companies, and
implied that unless same arrangement of the sort could
be reached, the companies mould be compelled sooner or
later to withdraw from Japan. An identic telegram mas
received by the Rising Sun Petroleum Company in Japan
from the London headquarters.
The local representatives of the foreign oil interests
decided to present this plan first to Mr. Yoshino, the
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, in order to as-
sist him should he be embarrassed mith interpellations in
the Diet, and later to discuss the matter with the Mitsui
representatives. On May 16, therefore, the representa-
tives of the oil companies called upon Mr. Yoshino and
gave him a copy of the telegram containing the plan.
In

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
In the conversation which followed, Mr. Yoshino asserted
that the Japanese Government wished the foreign oil
companies to remain in Japan. There was some discussion
of the plan offered by the oil interests, and Mr. Yoshi-
no expressed the opinion that Mitsui's seeming reluctance
to enter into negotiations with the oil interests was
partly policy, in order to obtain the most satisfactory
concessions from the oil interests, and partly real,
due to Mitsui's interest in the Fischer procees for the
liquefaction of coal. Mr. Yoshino also stated that he
wished that the principles, at least, of any arrangement
With Mitsui could be settled before July 1, l936, and
that he would endeavor to induce Mitsui to expedite
2/
matters. A memorandum of the conversation is enclosed.
Later on the same day the local representatives of
the oil interests interviewed Mr. Mukai, a Managing
Director of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, and handed him a
note containing the substance of the message received
from their principals. Mr. Mukai received the proposal
of the oil interests favorably but did not commit his
company further than to say that he would reply after
he had studied the matter. A memorandum of the con-
3/
versation mith Mr. Mukai is enclosed herewith. At the
time of writing no reply has been received by the local
representatives of the oil interests from the Mitsui
interests.
In a conversation with the First Secretary of the
Imbassy on May 26, 1936, Mr. Tajima, a Director of Mitmui
Bussan Kaisha, said that the oil negotiations with the
foreign

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
foreign oil companies constituted the "hardest nut he
had had to crack" in his many years of experience i th
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha. He said that the prinoipal ob-
stacle lay in the fact that the foreign oil interests
wanted the negotiations to be held in New York. At the
same time, it mas absolutely necessary that the Japanese
Ministries of Commerce and Industry, War and Navy be
consulted in regard to every step of the negotiations.
The First Secretary asked if it were not possible for
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha to formulate a concrete plan which
would fulfill the wishes of the Ministries eoncerned and
to take that to New York as a basis of negotiations. Mr.
Tajima said that that was impossible, because the various
Ministries did not see eye to eye in regard to the mat-
ter and could not agree as to what they wanted - in fact,
they did not know exactly what they wanted. Mr. Tajima
said, however, that, although the problem was a most
difficult one, it was absolutely necessary, both for the
foreign oil companies and for Japan, that it be solved
in a satisfactory manner, and that Mitsui mas working
very hard in an endeavor to find the solution. He added
that he did not think that a solution would be found by
July 1, 1936 (by which time the oil companies are supposed
to possess six months' stocks in Japan), but that he did
not think that the authorities would be hard on the
foreign companies for that reason.
Alleged Plan to Form a Semi-Official Storage Compeny
The ASAHI SHIMBUN of May 22, 1936, stated that a
plan

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
plan is being proposed by the Japanese oil industrialists,
for the establishment of a semi-official oil storage com-
pany for the purpose of carrying the non-commercial stocks
and thus taking the burden of carrying such stocks from
the shoulders of the Japanese oil traders.
The local representative of the Standard interests,
upon being questioned in regard to the above rumor, stated
that he had known nothing of the matter before seeing it
in the newspapers. He presumed, however, that, having
found that the foreign oil interests could neither be per-
suaded nor coerced into carrying six months' stocks of oil,
the Japanese Government was endeavoring to find a way out
of the dilemma by essaying a proposal, allegedly emanating
from the Japanese oil interests, that the excess storage
be carried by a subsidized company rather than by the oil
companies themselves, in order to relieve the domestic com-
panies from the heavy burden. The hesitation of the Mitsui
interests in entering upon negotiations with the foreign
oil interests might possibly be ascribed to the fact that,
with some such plan gradually taking form,it mould not be
necessary for the foreign oil interests to employ Japanese
capital to carry the stocks.
The Search for Oil.
The same article in the ASAHI SHIMBUN states that the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry is planning to increase
the amount of the subsidy given to domestic companies which
undertake test borings for oil. The subsidy allotted for
such

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
such borings at present amounts only to some Yen 200,000
or Yen 300,000 per annum, which is insufricient to en-
courage test wells in many promising fields owmed by
private oil companies in Japan. The Ministry therefore
plans to increase the subsidy for test borings from next
year, and also to subsidize wells which, hile productive,
cannot produce profitably in the present state of the
market.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Inclosures:
1/ Copy of telegram dated May 14,1936.
2/ Memorandum of Conversation, Mr. Yoshino, Mr. Ely
and Mr. Meyer, May 16, 1936.
3/ Memorandum of Conversation, Mr. Mukai, Mr. Ely
and Mr. Meyer, May 16, 1936.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1860 of May 17, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y.
FROM NEW YORK
TO YOKOHAMA
May 14/36
Referring to your telegram of Apr. l6th quite realize
Mitsui will want something from us in return for their
freeing us entirely from stockholdings obligations,
however we convinced that impossible to develop matter
by cable and that discussions between parties in N.Y.
essential if progress to be made. SToP Briefly our
idems at the moment as to the form-s of arrangement as
follows:- Firstly, Mitsui by arrangement with Government
(to) free the two foreign companies entirely from non-
commercial stockholdings obligations and to provide for
such storage themselves - they receiving the entire
Government pecuniary compensation pertaining to such
storage. SToP. Each of the foreign companies to seek
by negotiations (for) some means of making such action of
additional interest to Mitsui or other Japanese capital
by establishing permanent trade relations which would in-
volve supply-s contract to Mitsui for their Petroleum
business in Japan and some sharing of the business in
Japan among the three interests or other compensation which
ideas might be developed in various forms during negotia-
tions. SToP. In order for any such arrangement to be on
a proper footing Government should agree to transfer
existing volume (of) quota-s into percentage quota-s every-
where

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
where throughout Japanese Empire and its dependencies
including Manchukuo. STOP. From this you will see that
our idea is to bring about situation in Japanese Empire
whereby Japanese Companies and Foreign Companies can
work amicably together on a percentage quota basis
over whole market and without having any risk cutthroat
tactics in trading. STOP. Advantage-s to Foreign Companies
in such an arrangement obvious and seems clear to us
that without something this sort Foreign Companies sooner
or later will be compelled to withdraw completely from
Japanese market. SToP. If the latter is Government inten-
tion then we quite understand that proposed Mitsui nego-
tiations likely to prove fruitless even if they actually
do take place at all. SToP. If Japanese Government pre-
pared admit rights of Foreign Companies to retain a
share in trade which they have pioneered and in same way
as apparently Japanese Government expects to obtain share
inworld export trade then advantages to Japan of our pro-
posals equally obvious, providing, as they would, a link-up
between the Japanese Distributing Companies and Foreign
Distributing Companies which would thereby encourage latter
to assist in all questions (about) supply apart altogether
from their contractual supply undertaking with Mitsui.
C-。 K.C.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 1860of May 7,1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes on interview at the Department of
Commerce & Industry on May 16, 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. Yoshino - Vice Minister of Commerce & Industry
Mr. Ely
- R.S.P.Co.
Mr. Meyer - S-V.O.Co.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer opened the conversation by
stating that London's and New York's reply had now been
received and in order that Mr. Yoshino might understand
it fully they had brought a copy of the message for his
perusal, but asked that in doing so he should bear in
mind that the telegram was addressed to the representa-
tives of the Companies.
Mr. Yoshino read the message and commented:
First - that of course the Government wants the
Foreign Companies to stay in Japan.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer replied that they appreciated
that Mr. Yoshino has repeatedly given the Companies such
assurances and that it was with respect to this feature
in particular that they had asked Mr. Yoshino to bear in
mind that the telegram was addressed to the representa-
tives of the Companies.
Second - that a very long time has elapsed for the
development of a message which is chiefly repetition of the
views of the foreign companies.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer politely challenged the assor-
tion that the message is largely repetition and emphasized
that two ideas in particular are now advanced in a con-
crete form, namely (1) willingness on the part of the
Foreign Companies that Mitsui share in the trade (2) security
of supply for that portion of the trade to be done by Mi-
tsui and the prospect of an amicable attitude on the part
of the Foreign Companies toward the supply and other pro-
blems of the Domestic Companies. Messrs. Ely and Meyer
also grasped the opportunity to impress Mr. Yoshino with
the fact that in their opinion the solution of the problem
would have progressed much further had Mitsui seen fit to
send representatives to New York as soon as possible fol-
lowing New York and London's original suggestion.
Mr. Yoshino then dwelt at some length on Mitsui's
attitude of reluctance both towards the Foreign Companies
and towards the Government. In Mr. Yoshino's opinion such
a tendency on the part of Mitsui is not only characteristic
of a firm which occupies the position that it does in the
field of commerce, but is also no doubt designed to accomp-
lish the maximum results from its own point of view and
perhaps

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
perhaps still further a reflection of Mitsui's interest
in hydrogenation. (In this connection Mr. Yoshino
casually enquired ir Messrs. Ely and Meyer had not obtained
the impression that Mitsui's interest in oil has waned
somewhat since they became interested in the Fischer process.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer replied that they have drawn no such
conclusion. To Messrs. Ely and Meyer's inquiry if Mitsui
has definitely bought the Fischer process Mr. Yoshino re-
plied that he has no positive confirmation).
Mr. Yoshino suggested that Messrs. Ely and Meyer see
Mitsui immediately and upon being informed that they had
an appointment with Mr. Mukai promptly after seeing him,
he stated that he would telephone Mitsui on Monday or
Tuesday in order to expedite matters. He went on to say
that he himself is in a rather embarrassing situation when
questioned concerning the solution of the problem of
Foreign Companies' stock-holding and that he wants to get
something accomplished without further delay and that the
principles, at any rate, of the Foreign Companies' working
arrangement must be settled before July lst. Mr. Yoshino
expressed the hope that Mitsui will not now cause further
delay. Messrs. kly and Meyer suggested that, in the event
that the Government endorses the proposals made by the
Foreign Companies and will advise Mitsui to proceed to New
York for discussions, it is probable that Mitsui will heed
their advice. Mr. Yoshino agreed that such a procedure
might be effeotive.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch
No. 1866 of May 27,1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes on meeting at the offices of Mitsui
Bussan Kaisha, Tokyo on May 16, 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. T. Mukai - Managing Director, M.B.K.
Mr. Ely
- R.S.P. Co.
Mr. Meyer
- S-v.0. Co.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer informed Mr. Mukai that London
and New York's reply has now been received, the substance
of which they had embodied in a note for his perusal.
Mr. Mukai carefully read the message and commented:
First - that it was very reasonable and that it would
be interesting to see if the Government would agree. (In
this connection he voiced the opinion that the Government
wants (1) stocks to be held (2) security of oil supplies
and (3) maintenance of Japan's export trade).
Messrs. Ely and Meyer informed him that Mr. Yoshino
had read New York and London's message since the Companies
were under obligation to report to him as soon as a mes-
sage was received, but Mr. Yoshino had been non-committal.
Second - that London and New York had taken a long
time over a reply such as this, most of which had been
said before.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer drew particular attention to
the fact that London and New York have now made it clear
that Mitsui would share in the trade and that Mitsui would
have security of supply for that trade.
Mr. Mukai stated that he could not make any reply on
that occasion but would do so after studying the matter.
Mr. Mukai asked ir Mr. Yoshino had manifested relief
to have a reply. Messrs. Ely and Moyer replied that he
had seemed pleased that action may now be resumed. Mr.
Mukai laughingly remarked that Mr. Yoshino will now be
pressing Mitsui.
Mr. Mukai asked what is the combined gross annual
tumover of the S-V.O.Co. and R.S.P.Co. expressed in yen,
suggesting that it might be approximately 80 millions.
Messrs. EIy and Meyer thought Bo millions on the low side
and undertook to give Mr. Mukai a closer approximation by
telephone on Monday.
Mr. Mukai enquired if Mr. Yoshino had mentioned the
desirability of utilizing Japanese capital other than Mitsui.
Messrs. Ely and Moyer replied that he had made no suggestion
of that sort at the interview that morning.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.93)
STATE USK ONLY
1296
CLASSIFICATIC CAPCELLED Atory: le
o1 5-2ü-84 troca Denald 1. Simom, Slate Begt
B7 4 D 3///67
To the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
London.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
instruetion No. 1282 of Jume 15, 1936, and to previous
894.6363/277
correspondenee in regard to the oil situation in Japan
and enoloses, for the information of the Chargé
d'Afraires, a copy of despatoh No. l860 of May 27,
1936, with its enolosures, from the American Ambassador
at Tokyo.
molosure:
From mbassy Tokyo
No. 1860, May 27,
1936, with enolosures.
894.6383/277
m
FE:ROM: L
SKH
6/22/3

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.93)
10
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
DOR
26 BROADWAY
FE
NEWYORK
197
treet)
894.6363
June 8th,1936.
Divisie. c
FAR FASTERR AFFAIRS
Ancweed ny'thome
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
call. Su FE mamo
8 gume 11, 1934.
Department of State,
partment t State
eay
Washington, D. C.
Re: Japan Petrole ua Control Law
Saburo Kurusu
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
de are nformed taat Saburo K  asu, formerly i-f of
the Commercial Section of the Foreign ef ice i. Tokio, and recently appointed
894.6363/278
Japanese Ambassador to Belgi , is i Washington this week.  derstand
it is his intention to discuss (presumably with the State Dep rtment) certain
trade probleme between the United States end J pan.
As y i are aware, Mr. Kuusu is thoro hly familiar with
the Petroleun Control Law controversy since its inception, and it occurs
to us that he may touch upon that subject wile in Washington. We therefore
attach for yur uidance copies of ou cables to Yoxohama of Mr l4th and
June 5th, as well as Yokohea's cotles  as dated June first cnd June eighth.
These messages are self-explanetory and contain the wost important develop-
ments which have occurred sinee cur talk at r. Tea le's dinner in Washington
during March.
Presumably detsils of what has oce rred in Japen have come
to you through reports fron thc aited Stotes Embassy in Tokio. However,
should there be uny further inforaation yel cesire, please de not hesitate
to call upon me.
From recent ivices fron our people in Yokohama, it wo ild
appear that Mr. Kurusu, whom we hope to see in Tew Yor't before his dep rt tre
for Belgium, may also troach the subject or the Petrolem Sontrol Law with us.
Prior to our seeing hin, I would greatly appreciate being informed of any
developments which occur as a res ilt of  is visit to Woshington, and which in
your judgment might have an i portont bearing on this gtestion.
With kind pers nal regards,
Very sincerely yours,
PN Pack
PWP:AIM
P. W. PARKER
Enclosures.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.89)
TO GE AMBO,YOKOHANA
May 14th,1986
Re your eable April leth quite realise witoul & Ce. will
waat something frem us in return for their freeing we em-
sirely frem s twekkeeping eblige tien Revever we cenvimeed
imposslble develop matter by omble end thet diseussiems
betmeen part es in New York essentiel 1" progress te be
mede Fi ro Briefly our 1dee at moment es to form of
arrmgents as follows:
"InsTLy Vitsut a Co. by e rrengement m th Covermment to
free the two fereisn eompmies entirely from non-sommereial
stoekkeeping obligetion md to provide sue a twrege them-
selves they receivins the entire govermment peeuniery
sompemmetion pertsining to sue: storage Srop Eesh of the
forelgn sompamies to mek by negotistion some means of
making sueh motion or additional interest to Mitsui or
other Jepepese eapital by esteblishinr permmnent trade re-
Lations waleh wuld iavolve supply eantrects to Vitmul for
their petroleum business in Jepen end some shering of the
business in Jepen emong the three interests or other eam-
9
pensetion whian 1dess might be developed in verieus ferms
3
during megotiations Sro" In order for eny such arremgement
to be en e proper feoting goverment sheald sgree trom fer
exie ting volune quotes into pereentege quotes everywhere
tareusheet the Japenese Eapire amd i:s depenéemeies in-
elud ng Menshmkmo PULLstor From this you wáll see our 1dee
Is bring shout situstien in Japnmeee Empire whereby Jap-
emsse eompeaies end foreisn compemies een work emiesbly to-
setmer en a pereestage qeete besis over whole market aad
d.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.90)
withest having may risk eutthreet teeties ln tredins
PULL3TOp sévemteres to ferelge eompemiee in sush errens
ment ebvsess sad seame elear te ss shat without semething
this sert foreimm eompemiss sosser er leter will be cam-
pelled withdrew eompletely fron Japenese merket LSTOp
If letter is Govermen.s intention toen we cuite enderetm
proposed vitsui nemotiatlon Likely prove fruitless even 1
It ee mally doee ta ke place as ell pULLsrop If Jepmese
Govermment prepered edmi: right or fore iem eompenies rete
a share in trade whien shey heve ploneered and in seme wmy
as epperemtly Japemese Gevernment erpect ebtain shere is
werlds expors tre te Shen advanteres te Jepan or our prepe
qually ebvious proviline es they would e liak up betweem
she Jepanese distributing eam amies and rare len distribut
sompmies whien would thereby ensourage laster essist in
queetions supply apert slsorether frem their emtreetuel
supply undertakinge with "itsul.
W

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
IBGOVINO CABLZCRAN
PROM YOKOHAMA
TO  YORX J 1/36
Refer to your telegram of May l4th Mitsu1 & Co.Ltd. reply
FIRST Maimly for reason as per our telegram April leth they
are definitely unwillins to conduot negotiations in New Tork
Scond They surrest forminr a new company to embreeeing essets
of swo foreign compenies and Jepanese eapital latter a eonsor-
tium of Japanese interests To" Juch eompany itselr would per-
form importing and stoekholding and would market shrouah the
agonoy or Standard Vacuum O1l Co. A. .Co. Lt. and  itsui  Co.
Itd. organ1zation to" when we pointed out that nen compe y of
thet eharecter would not entirely free foreian companies of
burden of earrying non commercial stoeks vitsui & Co.!t. read-
ily signified interest in formdns e new company composed entire-
ly of Japanese eapital and although they sta ted conorete proposali
must manate from us they indicated TI "ollowing as represent-
inn their idems on the basis of possible nrangemen ts ne New
Company w1ll requ1re eap1tal1mation or Yen 20,003,000 to cover
oost of oils tankage land on basi: or 3 months A.P.Co. It:. and
Standard Vacuum Oil Co. stoeks and should promise annually net
profits of  Two To inmure indioated retum new ompany must
have in addition to Covernment compenmation income in the form of
storace fees on stoeks held for foreign company-s plus prorits
on certein volume of trade in all produats to be elloonted to it
out of A.P.Co. and Stmadard Vaouu: Oil Co. trede and marle ted by
1t through Miteui Bussan Kai she Ltu. as ngents. In this conneo-
sion Mitsu1 & Co. Ltd. indicate they would not wish to invest in
distribution facilities whien would duplicate friends and ours
and would desire some arrengment whereby present feeilities
shered Ator In remard to storare fees Mitsu1 & Co. Ltd.strongly
advoeete low ra tes in order that eonsumers may not attribute
priee levels to axpensive middlewan Tor This would make dis-
tribution profit prinoipel source of inoome which  itsui & Co.
sously desire but they emphesized sheir primary intrest

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.94)
PRONYOKOHAMA
TO NEW YORK JO 1/S€
in any plan or this kind is not so mueh to expend their oil
operetions as to render a serviee by rinding hermonious and
lasting solution and they wish friends and us to assure you
that they have no intention of #rndually supplenting foreign
compenies Top vitsul & Co.i.td. admit Japanese oapital other
than their own is desired in the interest of public sentiment
and we infer hae in mind aikawa  In regerd to 1rst
Mitsui & Co.'s attitude very strong end they sta ted 1f con-
ference in Now Yor: condition of arrmgement they must refuse
and they sugpest thet we should approach other party-s but
frieads and we suagest if you approve Third in principle but
as modiried below we shoul: a ain try to influence  itsui à
Co. throurh Y who without comittin hirself an eared to
weleome sonerel attitude as exoreased your telegrar of  ay
14th sTo" In re mr to  1tou1  Co.'s idee-s under Third
friends ad we consider forein companies should be respon-
sible for guaranteeing not more then seven peroent return only
on thet part or new eompeny's investmont whieh is recuired for
foreisn eompentes non commeroinl stoot-s end thet new company
hould run 1ts own risk 1n rererd to capital required to
finanae trade siven to it ani in regnrd to profit obteined
therefrom Stop Also in order to briug greetest possible in-
fluenee on government in regard to quotes any trede given new
eompeny should be link-ed with foreign companies shares in
naturel inerease stor For eample and for your guidance essum-
ing shat goverament will fixquantitative maximum stookholding
obligm tion-s at half of year l)3o Custons olearances also that
foreign eompanies will reoeive their full share or naturel im-
orease say 18% gasoline l5% heavy oil and tha: as a maximum
new compeny is given this volume for first yeer friends and
our prelininary celoulations 1nd1cete 15,500,000 yen would be
adequate empitelisation for carrying foreign companies steek

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
PROMYOKOHAMA
TO HE YORK
June 1/36
in exoess of 3 months and thet new compeny for its own srede
and stoekholding obl1ga tions would require ada1tionel 5,s00,
ooo yen To en first yoars requipoments could be met as
foliows: A: Prorit fror the government-s compensation on
stoek-s held for forein companies estimated on basis of
budget of this year aporoximately yen 325,000 arter dedueting
workins expenses but cell attention to the fact compensatbn
may be reduoed in rollowing yeare B: Balanee of Yen 760,000
by means of storere rees or s tooks held for foreign compnnies
whien is equive lent to 7.4 per cent on cir value or stooks
held or 4.9 per cont on cap1tel involved r or your infor
mmtion Vitaui & Co.Itd. 1den of storere rees wes ecuive lent
4 per cent of eir value or stocks held STor In above examplo
new eompanies trede riret year woul: be approximately 1,800
un1ts soline and 83, 000 tons neavy o1l, thereefter new comp
would ahere in neturel increase prorete to its firet year
salee end foreigu companies would share in naturel inorease
similarly on besis of sheir adjusted velue to" Consequently
In due course if quantitacive axirum is not raimed should
possible if desired ns non co morcial stocks to diminish re-
sire and rinally liquldate thet part of new compnny's onpite
whien 1e subeidised by foreign comnnnies.
e.e. to vesare Teegle
Brown
Sheets
H.w.
E.T.S.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTOOING CABLECRAY
PROV NEW YORK
TO YOKORAVA
June 5/36
For our guidance please advise briefly:
FIRST: Position regarding revised petroleum tariff and
subsidy for stoc kholding both of which we assume have been
passed by Diet.
SECOND:Whet er there is reasonable chance for establishment
quantitative stockholding maximum and approximetely when you
consider this will be decided.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.91)
INCO' THC C BLLCRAN
FRO' YOFOHAMA
TO NE YORK
8/36
Refer to your telegram of June 5th pet oleum t riff as per
our memorandum 440 passed by iet nd becume effective ay
30th 0 ubsidy (or/for, stockholdin: yen 2,640,000 passed
by Diet and we otloulate t' i sun will defruy currying cost-
inc udin interest on involve-in:-u of bout 2 months stock-
but details of contemplated aliocuti n-s not :et uvui lable
althouh newspaper report-s r tes wil! be yen 7.5o per kilc
litre gasoline und .50 to 4.00 per  litre rucl oil diesel
oil sTor In this connection re us c 1l uttontion to pos-
sibility coupensuti n a be reduced follouin, ye r-s based
on stutenent-s de in iet con:ittee-s by overnnent spokes
nan which implieu ne essity (or) overnrent subsidy should be
reduced or obviate. in future b rc:te
cconomy (in) expense-
s on the part of o: l co vany-s
n r rd to uantitative
maximun stockholcin
) r ho es
nost inti' el buse on 's
repeated
pre ioti n l  the: is Lso cnerel o inien
current sone modi rie 'i n-s li ly to be ude in st ckholding
oblirution-s und in
iot cor ittee-s the ws (we" ) critie-
isn-s or worhin or
tolcurs  cost-s of soe olding
from the sto d oint of notor c r oper tor-
we
consider ther is re son ennee ot) but c: 1l attention
the e is also posnini ity nodiric ion ci ht
to ora (of)
fixed quant: ty-s 'or) no -corr ercial toc -s
l rnetively
somewhat recuced but inere sin: obli tion-s on busis ior)
hulf (of) av e-s of several prcee in  r-s i ort-s in-
stend (of) previ us 1 yer
eie ti n-ss to
when but hope ut the insti tion of
itaui
o.td. und our
selves in o urse
f ir t otiati ns
ovent vill indicate
their intenti n T
c will tr also to rind o ortunity to
make inqu r:-s fron
overnent pos bl u o icial-1. throuch
bassy-s

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.85)
82
June 15 1938
1282
9e the msrteen Chargé d'affaires ad interin,
henben.
The Sesvetary of State refere to the Department's
smstwruetiem Ne. 1851 of May s8, 1956, and to previous
6363/279
sssrespenéense is regard to the eil situation in Japen
and amelesse, for the infermetien of the Chergd
d'Aftaires, a copy ef a memerandum ef a ccmversetiem of
Jume 11, 10s6, between Mr. P. W. Parirer of the steméard-
Vesumm Oil Gempany and eertain effieers of the Depart-
momt in regard to the subject umder referenee.
melesure:
Momerendwm of
Jme 11. 1956.
894.6565
nwur
m,m.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
S14
A rue cop
6/12/36
JUN 16 193€
品
SKN
307

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.94)
U-ben
77
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
June 15 1936
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONVERSATION:
June 11, 1936.
Mr.9. W.1Panker
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company;
4lo
Division of
Mr. Dooman;
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.6363
Mr. Mackay.
UN 1 2 1936
Subject:
The oil situation in Japan and in
connection therewith the visit to
Washington of Ambassador Kurusu.
Mr. Mackay called Mr. Parker at New York by telephone.
Mr. Mackay referred to Mr. Parker's letter of June 8,
in regard to the above-mentioned subject, and said that due
894.6363/279
to Mr. Parker's absence from New York yesterday afternoon
an endeavor to reach him by 'phone at the time indicated
had proven unsuccessful. Mr. Mackay said that Ambassador
Kurusu had called at the Department on June 10; that there
had followed a discussion of commercial relations between
the United States and Japan and of problems in connection
therewith, including that resulting from the Japanese
Petroleum Control Law; and that as Mr. Dooman was present
at the discussion he (Mr. Dooman) would endeavor to acquaint
Mr. Parker with the substance of that portion of the con-
FILHD
versation which related to the oil situation in Japan.
Mr. Dooman then stated to Mr. Parker that, in the
course of an extended conversation between Mr. Kurusu and
an officer of the Department when various commercial
problems lying between the United States and Japan were
F
discussed,
F
G

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
7F
- 2 -
disoussed, opportunity was had to explain to Mr. Kurusu
in clear language the dissatisfaction of the American
Government over the manner in which American oil interests
in Japan were being dealt with by the Japanese Government.
Mr. Kurusu had replied that unfortunately the issue had
been brought about by the enactment of a law, with regard
to which law he would reserve his opinion. Mr. Kurusu
had expressed confidence that difficulties would be
amicably adjusted. He had pointed out that the American
oil interests in Japan had put forward three desiderata:
first, a guarantee that they would be permitted to operate
in Japan for a stipulated period of time; second, a
guarantee that they be permitted to sell each year a
definite quantity of petroleum products; and third, the
raising of the price in Japan of gasoline. Mr. Kurusu
had stated that the Japanese Government had met the foreign
oil companies at once on the first two points, and that
although there had been certain difficulties in increasing
the price of gasoline he had heard shortly before leaving
Japan that decision had been made to increase the price
of gasoline.
Mr. Parker stated that apparently Mr. Kurusu had not
been frank with regard to the second point; that although
it is true that the Japanese Government has agreed to
guarantee that the foreign oil companies be permitted
to market each year a definite quantity of petroleum
produots,

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
7
- 3 •
products, the foreign companies had in fact insisted
that they be permitted to share in meeting the growing
demand in Japan for petroleum produots; and that this
demand had not benmet by the Japanese Government.
Mr. Dooman stated that the general principle of
American interests being permitted to expand their
business in Japan as there is increasing demand for the
products handled by these American interests had in fact
been emphasized.to Mr. Kurusu.
Mr. Dooman added that Mr. Kurusu had expressed
optimism in regard to certain negotiations which were
taking place between the foreign oil concerns and Japanese
interests, and that he (Mr. Kurusu) had given the impression
that as soon as the various parties concerned had agreed
upon a place for negotiation the negotiations would be
brought rapidly to a successful conclusion.
In response to Mr. Dooman's question whether Mr. Parker
desired that any further points be discussed by officers of
the Department with Mr. Kurusu, Mr. Parker stated that he
would appreciate the hope being expressed to Mr. Kurusu
that he would urge his Government to persuade Mitsui to
send their representatives to New York to enter into
negotiations with representatives of the foreign oil
interests. Mr. Parker stated that the company's repre-
sentative in Japan had recently cabled that oil quotas for
the second half of the year would be allotted by the
Japanese

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
F
Japanese Government on July 1, but that the terms of
the petroloum law with regard to stocks would have to
be complied with on or before June 30. It was Mr. Parker's
thought that if the Japanese Government could be assured
that the negotiations with Mitsui were progressing
satisfactorily, no penalties would be exacted for
non-fulfillment of the stock keeping requirements. It
1s therefore very urgently desired that Mr. Kurusu do
what he can to induce Mitsui to despatch representatives
to New York as soon as possible. Mr. Dooman said that
he would see Mr. Kurusu this morning, and that he would
be glad to discuss the matter with him.
Mr. Parker expressed appreciation of the information
which had been made available to him and stated that he
did not expect that any further acknowledgment would be
made of his recent letter to Mr. Hornbeck on the subject
of Mr. Kurusu's visit.
newz
FE:REM:EHD/DLY

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
lune 18 1936
CONFIDTNTIAL -- STAFT USA ONLY
wo.1060
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.6363/279
The Secretary of State refers to the Embassy's
despatoh No. 1800 of May 1, 1956, and to previous
eorrespondence in regard to the oil situation in Japan
and enoloses, for the information of the Ambassador, a
copy of a memorandum of a conversation of Jume ll, 1936,
between Mr. P. W. Parker of the Standard-Vaeuum Oil
Company and certain officers of the Department in regard
to the subjeot under referenoe.
Enolosure:
Memorandum of
Jume 11, 1936.
-4
894.6363
NEv
M
FE: RCM: EJL
FE
6/12/36
SXA

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
4E
8 3
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
LMS
This tolegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
fore being communicated
Dated June 23, 1936
to anyone. (A)
DivisiRecia 2:50 p. m.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Socretary of State,
Washington.
137, Junc 23, 7 p. m.
262
894.6363
Embassy's 78, March 23, 7 p. m.
894.6363/280
One. Yesterday the local representatives of the
foreign oil interests were requested by the Ninistry of
Commerce and Industry to submit immediately a statement
along the following lincs.
"(a) The two companies will fulfill the obligation
of stock holding; (b) accordingly, they are now in pro-
cess of discussing special arrangements to that cnd".
FOLED
The local representatives believe it impossible for their
principals to agree to part (a) of the statement.
Two. Today, in the course of an informal conversa-
tion, in the presence of Sansom and Dickover, Yoshino,
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, stated that he
would accept a statement as follows:
"The companies are now negotiating a special arrange-
ment to cnable them to fulfill their obligations under
the petroleum law and have reached an agreement in prin-
ciple". This is believed to be the minimum whigh
F/FG
Yoshino

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
84
LMS 2-No. 137, June 23, 7 p. m., from Tokyo.
Yoshino can accept in order to give unreduced trade quotas
from July lst to the foreign oil interests and to con-
tinue the postponement of the granting of additional re-
fining permits.
Three. The local representatives are telegraphing
the foregoing statement to their principals and in view
of the urgoncy are pressing for an carly reply.
Four. Yoshino also statcd that it would be impossible
further to postpone enforccment of the stock holding pro-
vision of the law. I thcrefore do not believe it advisable
to make the representations authorized in the Department's
33,
March 20, 6 p. m., except as a last resort.
259
894.6363
GREW
KLP

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
END
July 10, 1936.
Reference Tokyo's despatch No. 1895 of
June 12, 1936, in further regard to the oil
situation in Japan, -
This despatch outlines the tentative
terms upon which the Mitsui interests ap-
parently are prepared to cooperate with the
foreign oil interests in the endeavors of
the latter to effeot a compromise agreement
for the storage of oil whioh would be ac-
coptable to the Japanese authorities.
In view of the faot that on June 22
the Japanese authorities demanded of the
Standard and Shell interests a statement to
the effeot that they would, through speoial
arrangements, fulfill their obligations
under the Oii Control Law and that shortly
thereafter there appeared in the press news
itoms to the effeot that an agreement had
been reached, it is believed that no action
is required of the Department and that it
may await the receipt of further reports
whioh presumably will contain details of
the settlement finally reached. It is
interesting to note that for approximately
one month the Department has failed to re-
ceive any information whatsoever in regard
to this subjeot from the Standard oil
interests.
Tokyo's

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Tokyo's despatch under reference also
states that it is now making a translation
of the revised Japanese import tariff and
that it will transmit a copy to the Depart-
ment with a disoussion of the effect of the
revised rates upon the American petroleum
trade with Japan.
eeur
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
7
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
y 14 1930
No. 1895.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 12, 1936.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
894.6263
Cofy 2 Loudom
slo
neu
C
LE
CEIVE
894.6363/28
5
RE
A
..1.1.1
InUSA
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
1277
Sir:
Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1860,
FILED
dated May 27, 1936, and to previous correspondence on
the subject of the difficulties being experienced by
the American and other foreign oil interests in Japan
under the Petroleum Industry Law, I have the honor to
report the following developments in the situation.
Negotiations with the Mitaui Interesta.
In despatoh No. l860, referred to above, the Embassy
roported that the foreign oil interests had proposed to
F/FG
the

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the Mitsui interests that the Mitsui interests carry
for the oil companies all non-commercial stocks re-
quired by the Japanese Gover ment, in return for which
the Mitsui interests would receive all compensation to
be paid by the Gover ment for the storage of oil, as well
as some undetermined share of the foreign oil companies'
Japan business and a long-term contraot for a supply of
oil to cover Litsui's requirements. The representatives
of the foreign oil companies conferred on several oc-
casions with the representatives of the Mitsui interests
and by June 1 the Mitsui interests had evolved the
plan described below.
The Mitsui interests woula organize a new company
to carry the excess stocks of oil, with a capitalization
of Yen 20,000,000, on which the Mitsui interests would
expect to receive a net profit of eight per cent per
annum. In order to obtain this return, they would expeot,
in addition to the Government compensation, income in the
form of a storage fee to be paid by the foreign companies
for the carrying of the oil and further income in the
form of profit on & certain volume of trade in petro-
leum products to be allotted to the Mitsui interests out
of the foreign companies' annual quotas. The Mitsui in-
terests would not build further distribution facilities
to compete with the facilities of the foreign oil com-
panies, but would want to share the present facilities.
The Mitsui interests emphasized that they have no desire
gradually to crowd the foreign oil companies out of the
Japan

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
Japan field, but wish to render a service by finding
a harmonious and permanent solution of the whole
pr blem of oil in Japan. Owing to the present feel-
ing in Japan against the large financial and industrial
interests, however, the Mitsui interests refer that
Japanese capital other than itsui be included in the
new comnany (referring probably to the Mippon Sangyo
interests, who desire participetion in the oil trade),
and that the storage fee to be paid by the foreign
oil companies be kept as low as possible, in order to
avoid criticism to the effect that Japanese middle-
men are causing any future increase in the price of
gasoline. The Mitsui representatives also stated posi-
tively that they could not consent to hold the nego-
tiations in New York, and that if conferences in New
York were a condition of the proposal they would be
compelled to refuse to consider the proposal.
The local representatives of the foreign oil
interests telegraphed the Mitsui proposal to their
respective head offices on June 1, l936, adding their
own views in regard to the proposal. The views of the
local representatives of the oil companies do not differ
from those of the Mitsui interests on points of prin-
ciple but only on points of fact. For example, they
believe that seven per cent per annum on the capital
involved should be sufficient, and that the storage
fee should be fairly large, in order to avoid the turning
over to Mitsui of too large a proportion of their trade.
It appears, therefore, that the negotiations in the future
w111

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
will no longer be based on the principles of the arrange-
ment but will consist simply of business details. There
is reason to believe, therefore, that the negotiations
will eventually evolve a satisfactory arrangement, un-
less it appears later that there is too great a spread
between the business ideas of the foreign oil interests
and those of the lAitsui interests.
Attitude of the Authorities toward the Legotiations.
The Vice Liinister for Commerce and Industry (Mr.
Yoshino) successfully avoided interpellations in the
Diet on the subject of the refusal of the foreign oil
companies to carry six months' stocks of oil, but he
is very anxious that the negotiations with the Mitsui
interests reach some definite arrangement before June
30, 1936, at which time the quotas for the nert six
months must be allotted. On June 9, 1936, therefore,
the local representatives of the foreign oil companies
were called to the Mining Bureau of the Department of
Commerce and Industry and there requested to give some
assurance that the negotiations with the Japanese in-
terests were progressing toward a satisfactory solution
and that the basis of the arrangement and the outline of
the scheme had been agreed upon. An answer was requested
by the end of the week, it being necessary to proceed
with the official business in connection with the July-
December quotas. The local representatives of the foreign
oil companies telegraphed this request to their principals,
with the suggestion that some suoh answer as the following
be sent to the Mining Bureau :
An

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
"An arrangement for the satisfactory solution of
the stock-holding question is now under discussion
between our companies and the Japanese interests.
The mutually acceptable basis on which the arrange-
ment is being developed is that Japanese interests
will provide non-commercial stocks and storage
required by the Petroleum Law in return for suit-
able compensation. This will include, beside
pecuniary compensation to be paid by the Govern-
ment in respect to such stocks and storage, other
compensation to be mutually agreed upon, and also
establisiment of permanent trade relations with the
Jepanese interests concerned, and supply contracts
in respect to the petroleum business done by them
in Japan."
At the moment of writing, no reply has been received by
the local representatives of the foreign oil companies
from their principals.
Legislation.
As was reported in the mbassy's despatch No. 1590,
dated December 12, 1935, it was proposed to increase
the import tariff on asoline, crude oil and lubricating
oils and greases, in order to provide additional revenue
with which to meet the cost of payment of compensation for
the storage of oil. The increased tariffs vere approved
by the recent session of the  iet and became operative
on ay 30, 1936. The mbassy is now making a translation
of the revised tariff and will transmit a copy to the
Department at a later date, with a di. cussion of the efiect
of the revised rates upon the merican petroleum trade with
Japan.
The Diet also approved an item in the budget of
Yen 2,640,000 , being compensation for the holding of stocks
of oil under the Petroleum Industry Law. Details of the
contemplated allocation of this sum to the various Japa-
nese and foreign oil companies have not yet been disclosed,
but

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
but the approval of the item in the budget means that
compensation will be paid by the Government from July 1,
1936, when the six months' storage provision becomes ef-
fective.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
863.6
ERD:r
人

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
Julv 14 1938
1326
LASSIICATION A oI: letter
520-64 from Cd 1. Sinon, Staty Dept
3/6
To the Ameriean Ambassader,
Lendon.
894.6365/
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
instrustion No. 1296 of Jume 26, 1936, and to previous
correspendence in regard to the eil situatien in Japan
and enoloses, for the information of the Ambassador, a
eopy of despatoh No. 1895 of Jume 12, 1936, from the
281
American Ambassader at Tokyo.
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tekyo
No. 1895, Jume 12, 1936.
894.6363/281
NELL
FE
FE:RCM:EJL
7/9/36

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./101
Desp.#1829
SEE
FOR
894.6363/
Japan
Grew
May 13,1936.
FROM
-) DATED
1N011
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Oil situation in Japan;American Oil interests:
Reports latest developments in -.
282
rpg
2

=== Page 234 === (confidence 1.00)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests.
In reply to the proposal made in March by the
American and British oil interests that a contractual
arrangement of sorts be made between the foreign oil
companies and the Mitsui interests so as to avoid the
necessity of storage of non-commercial stocks by the
foreign firms, the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha (Mitsui Products
Company) told representatives of the foreign firms that
if the oil companies intended to utilize Mitsui simply
as a storage or warehousine medium the Japanese company
was definitely not interested in the proposal for the
reason that Mitsui Bussan Kaisha was organized for trade
purposes. However, the Mitsui representatives expressed
a willingness to consider a broader arrangement which
would involve trading on their part and requested that
the oil companies make a definite proposal. Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, implied in
a conversation with representatives of the foreign oil
interests on April 24 that Mitsui might be more willing
to negotiate if the Japanese Government expressed a wish
that some agreement be reached but added that it would
first be necessary for the oil companies to draw up a
definite proposal for the approval of the Japanese Govern-
ment.*

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
283
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./102
Deap.#1882
894.6363/
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
June 10,1936.
FROM
-) DATED
19111
NAME
1-1187
2
REGARDING:
American Oil Interests in Japan:Plan presented
C
to Vice Minister for Comnerce and Industry,on
3
May 16,1936,by representatives of American and
Brit ish oil companies. Reports regarding,-.
fpg

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
(a).
American Oil Interests.
On May 16 the representatives of the American and
British oil companies presented the following plan to Mr.
Yoshino, Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, concern-
ing cooperation between the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company on the one hand and
the Mitsui interests on the other: Mitsui would carry
all the non-conmercial oil stocks required by the Japanese
Government; in return Mitsui would receive the entire
compensation paid by the Government for stock-keeping,
as well as some share of the foreign oil companies' business
in Japan; and the oil companies would make a permanent
supply contract with Mitsui, in return for which they would
ask that the present volume quotas granted by the Japanese
Government be changed to percentage quotas. In their
conversation with Mr. Yoshino the oil company representatives
implied that unless some arrangement of the sort could be
reached the companies would be compelled sooner or later
to withdraw from Japan, to which Mr. Yoshino replied that
the Japanese Government wished the foreign oil companies
to remain in Japan, promising that he would endeavor to
induce Mitsui to expedite matters so that some arrange-
ment could be reached before July 1, l936 (the date on
which the oil companies are required to possess six
months' stocks in Japan). On the same day the American
and British oil company representatives interviewed one
of the managing directors of the Mitsui interests along
similar lines. The Mitsui representative received the
proposals favorably.* Although negotiations were
continued
* Embassy's despatch No. 1860 of May 29, 1936.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.94)
-5 -
continued toward the close of the month no definite
agreement was reached.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 18, 1936.
Tokyo's No. 1914 of June 26 reports
developments in the situation created by
the Petroleum Industry Law.
On June 22 representatives of the
foreign oil companies were called to the
Department of Commerce and Industry and
requested to file a statement to the
following effect:
A
B
The two companies
Accordingly they are
will fulfill the
now in process of
obligation of stock-
discussing special
holding.
arrangements to that
end.
The authorities stated that unless this
assurance was filed within a few days it
would be impossible for them to grant sales
quotas to the companies on the same basis
as during the half year ended in June.
A revised statement to the effect that
"The companies are now negotiating a special
arrangement to enable them to fulfil their
obligation under the Petroleum Law and
have reached an agreement in principle"
was finally presented, and at the time the
despatch was written, appeared to be
acceptable.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
It will be recalled that the oil
companies have been negotiating with
Mitsui for an arrangement whereby the
Mitsui interests would carry for the
oil companies all non-commercial stocks
required by the Petroleum Law. The oil
companies have received word from their
principals that the proposition made by
Mitsui was acceptable in principle.
SKH
Pleae note un thes connsetion
Mn Partkrns luter 7 July 14 (899.6363/286)
altashed hereunader.
RW
894.6363/284
W
WTT/DLY

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.93)
Z
(rcm)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1914.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
41936
Tokyo, June 26, 1936.
894.6363
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL I.T.LSTS IN JAPAN.
Cory 5 Lmdm
rous
894.6363/284
12
ANRDS
193 1 P
InUSA
For
aite
C
SARS
A
11936
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
21
FULED
Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1895, dated
June 12, 1936, and to previous correspondence on the
subject of the difficulties being experienced by the
American oil interests in Japan under the Petroleum In-
dustry Law, I have the honor to report the following
developments in the situation.
Relations with the Japanese Authorities.
In despatoh No. l895, referred to above, the Embassy
reported that the local representatives of the Standard
FG
and

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
and Shell interests had proposed to their principals
a statement which, it was believed, would serve to
satisfy the authorities in regard to the future in-
tentions of the oil interests in connection with the
stockholding obligation of the law. The statement,
as revised by the head orrices of the oil interests
and presented to the Department of Commerce and In-
dustry, read as follows:
"An arrangement for solution of stock-
holdings question is now under discussion
between our Companies and Jepanese interests.
The mutually acceptable basis on which arrange-
ment is being developed is that Japanese in-
terests will provide non-commercial stocks and
storage required by the  etroleum Law in return
for suitable compensetion. This will include,
besides pecuniary compensation to be paid by
Government in res ect to such stocks and storage,
other considerations to be mutually agreed upon,
and also establishment of trade relations with
Japanese interests concerned, and supply con-
tracts in respect to Petroleum business done by
them in Japan".
This statement was presented to I.r. Sakai of the
Department of Commerce and Industry on June 13, 1936.
A memorandum of the conversation of the local represen-
tatives with the representative of the Depertment of Com-
1/ merce and Industry on that day is enclosed herewith.
It was thought that the statement given above would
be sufficient to satisfy the authorities, but on June 22,
1936, the looel representatives of the foreign oil in-
terests were called to the Department of Commerce and
Industry and there were requested to file a more formal
statement which, in English translation, read as follows:
"A.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
"A。
The two companies will fulfill the
obligation of stockholding.
B.
Accordingly they are now in process of
discussing special arrangements to that end."
The local representatives of the oil interests were
certain that their principals would not agree to the
first part of the statement, as it obligated them defi-
nitely to fulrill the stockholding obligation under the
law. They therefore discussed the uestion for some time
with the represe.tative of the Depurtment of Conmerce and
Industry, endeavorin to use some such  hrase as 'we are
endeavorin to arra.ge to fulfill" or "we ure in process
of negotiatin arra..gements to fulfill", but the repre-
sentative of the Depart..ent of Conmnerce and Industry re-
fused to consider any such mouifications. A memorandum
2/
of the conversation is enclosed.
The local representatives of the oil interests uis-
cussed this development vith their respective Embassies
and on the following day Sir George Sansom, the Comaercial
Counsellor of the British mbassy and r. Dickover of this
Embassy, happening to meet r. Yoshino, Vice Minister of
Commerce and Industry, at the Tokyo Club, brou ht up the
subject in the course of the e suing conversation. Ir.
Yoshino stated that it was imperctive that his Department
receive some definite assurance within the next two or
three days that the oil compenies would complete an arrange-
ment to carry six months' stock of oil, as otherwise it
would be impossible for him to grant to the foreign oil
companies for the period from July to December of this
year the seme quotas as they had received during the
first half of the year, and, moreover, he would be un-
able to postpone further the granting of permits for
additional

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
additional refining facilities to the domestic oil com-
panies which had applied for such permits. Mr. Yoshino
then stated that he could accept as sufficient some such
statement as the following:
"The companies are now negotiating a
special errangement to enable them to
fulfil their obligation under the Pe-
troleum Law and have reached an agree-
ment in principle."
Sir George Sansom and ir. Dickover obtained the distinct
impression from the conversation that a statement such as
the above was the minimum which ir. Yoshino could accept
in order to give unreduced import and sales quotas to the
foreign oil companies and to continue to postpone the
granting of additional refining permits to the domestic
companies. They therefore translated the above statement
into English and imnediately communicated it to the local
representatives of the oil companies, who telegraphed to
their principals for authority to present it to the Depart-
ment of Conmerce and Industry. Authorization has now been
received and the statement was presented today.
In the course of the conversation with Mr. Yoshino,
he stated definitely that it would be impossible for the
authorities further to postpone the enforcement of the
stockholding provision of the law, as the enforcement had
already been postponed for nine months and the authori-
ties (which authorities were meant was not stated but the
implication was that r. Yoshino was speaking of the mili-
tary authorities) would not permit a further postponement.
In view of the fact, therefore, that any representations made
by the Embassies to endeavor to obtain a further postponement
of the stockholding obligation would probably meet with a rebuff,
it

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
it appeared advisable to this Embassy and to the British
Embassy that no official representations be made on the
subjeot unless end until the authorities of the Depert-
ment of Commerce and Industry refused to accept the re-
vised statement quoted above. At the time of writing it
appears thut the revised stutenent will be accepted by
the authorities.
Negotiations with the Mitsui Interests.
As was stated in despatch .o. 1895, the Mitsui in-
terests have made & fairly definite proposition to the
foreign oil interests, which was telegrephed to their
principals by the local representatives. On June 23,
1936, the local representatives of the oil interests re-
ceived telegrams from their principals indicating that
the itsui proposition was acceptable in principle, al-
though there was some disagreement on details. The local
representatives have not yet communicated the reply to
the Mitsui interests and are discussing certain points
with their principals by telegraph, but it is believed
that another conversation on the subject will be held
with the Mitsui interests before the end of this week.
Respectfully yours,
Josnoa 6. Srem
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Memorandum of Conversation- Mr. Sakai with
Messrs. Meyer, Ely and Ezoye, June 13, 1936.
Memorandum of Conversation - Mr. Kojima with
Messrs. Meyer, Ely and Ezoye, June 22, 1936.
863.6
ERD:r:g

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No.1914or June 20, 1936, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes of interview at Department of Commerce
& Industry on June 13th, 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. Sakai (Chief of Fuel Section) acting on
behalf of Mr. Kojima, Head of Mining
Bureau
Messr.Meyer (S.V.O.C.) and Ely and Ezoye (R.S.P.C.)
Messrs. Ely and Meyer reminded Mir. Sakai that he had
asked them by that day to make a statement concerning the
stock-holding position.
They wished therefore to confirm that an arrangement
for a solution of the stock-holding question was now
under discussion between their Companies and Japanese
interests.
They were able also to inform him that the mutually
acceptable basis on which the arrangement was being de-
veloped was that the Japanese interests would provide the
non-commercial stocks and storage required by the Petro-
leum Law in return for suitable compensation: This would
include, besides the pecuniary compensation to be paid by
the Government in respect of such stocks and storage,
other considerations to be mutually agreed upon and also
the establishment of trade relations with the Japanese
interests concerned and supply contracts in respect of the
petroleum business done by them in Japan.
Mr. Sakai listened attentively and noted down Capt.
Ezoye's translation of what Messrs. Ely and Meyer had
said. He asked if they could tell him anything more
specific concerning the stage which the negotiations had
reached: for instance, with regard to the various considera-
tions to be agreed upon, could it be said that some were
nearer settlement than others?
Messrs. Meyer and Ely said that it was rather diffi-
cult to answer that question specifically and to differenti-
ate in regard to the progress being made with the various
phases of the basic arrangement they had outlined. In re-
gard to the present position of the negotiations, they
could tell Mr. Sakai that they were now in communication
with their Principals by cable concerning certain specific
points - what Mr. Sakai might call "details" - which had
developed from the basis they had described.
In reply to another question from Mr. Sakai as to
whether they themselves felt that the negotiations would
be brought to a successful conclusion Messrs. Meyer and
Ely replied in the affirmative subject to no unforeseen
circumstances arising.
M.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Mr. Sakai then went on to say that, going on what
Messrs. Meyer and Ely had reported officially, he could
not yet consider himself convinced that the matter would
eventually be successfully settled. He would report to
Mr. Yoshino and enquiries might have to be made from the
Japanese interests concerned. In these circumstances
with lst July gettin: near, he had to warn Messrs. Ely
and Meyer that there was the risk of the Department having
to take some drastic or unpleasant action towards their
Companies - although the authorities did not wish to have
to do so. He would therefore ask them to keep the Bureau
advised of further progress in the negotiations.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely promised to do so and asked
Mr. Sakai's advice as to whether, in order to regularise
their position in Chosen and Taiwan, they should give
similar information to the two Governments-General. They
also wished to request the good offices of the Ministry
of Commerce & Industry to make known the situation to the
Overseas Ministry.
Mr. Sakai said he could not reply without consulting
Mr. Yoshino, which he would do and communicate later with
Messrs. Ely and Meyer. The position was that in the
Commerce Ministry knowledge of the Foreign Companies'
negotiations with Japanese interests was confined strictly
to Mr. Yoshino, Mr. Kojima and himself, while Mr. Yoshino
was personally in touch with one official in the Overseas
Ministry. If the Companies were to advise the Governments-
General of Chosen and Taiwan it was rather a delicate
question as to what particular officials should be approached.
He could, however, tell Messrs. Meyer and Ely that in
Chosen and Taiwan their Companies would receive similar
treatment in regard to this situation as in Japan Proper.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatoh
No.1914 of June 26, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes of Interview at Department of Commerce and
Industry on June 22nd, 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. Kojima (Head of Mining Bureau)
Messrs LMeyer (S.V.O.C.) und Ely & Ezoye(R.S.P.Co.)
Mr. Kojima said he wished to discuss the question which
had been the subject of essrs Ely and Meyer's recent inter-
views with r. Sakai and the first part of the ensuing con-
versation followed very clo ely the lines of the interview
on June 13th, Messrs. ly end eyer outlining the state-
ment they had made to ir. Sakai nd confirming their pre-
viously expressed opinion that, subject to no unlooked for
circumstances, there were good prospects that the arrange-
ment under discussion with Japanese interests for a solution
of the stock-holding question would be hrou ht to a success-
ful conclusion.
l.r. Kojima then itimated that in order to regularize
its position under the Law, for the administration of which
it was responsible to the Gover: ment and therefore subject
to criticism fro... other Departments, the Commerce Ministry
must have something more uefinite from the two Companies.
To preserve their status as Importers and Traders and to
receive quotas, it was necessary for the Companies to com-
ply with the Law and to lold the stipulated amount of stocks,
and the Ministry required a specific decleration of the
Companies' intention to do so. r. Kojima then dictated
in Japanese a draft of the notification which he desired
the Companies to send him in writin, the translation being:-
(1) We (the two Companies) will fulfill the tock-
holding obligation.
(2) For that purpose we are arranging special means.
Messrs. Meyer and ly pointed out that this particu-
lar wording did not guite meet the situation in that it
dissociated from the Companies' fulfilment of the stock-
holding obligation the special means, which, as Ir. Kojima
knew, were essential to it because the Companies them-
selves could not undertake to assume the burden of carrying
non-commercial stocks. They suggested many alternative
formulae to overcome this point, but in the course of a
long discussion Mr. Kojima rejected everything which asso-
ciated the means with the fulfilment of the obligation or
in any way qualified (l). He politely but firmly insisted
that he must have a separate and straightforward declara-
tion that the Companies would fulfil the stock-holding re-
quirements of the Law and he closed the interview with a
request that Messrs. Ely and Meyer would further consider
the matter and let him have a reply as soon as possible.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.91)
July 22 1936
LY
LASSIFICATION CANCELLED Auoriy: lr
.1342
af 5-29-64 fram Donald 1. Sunon, Stato Dept
o3/1/
To the Ameriemm Ambassedor,
Leméen.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
instrustiem No. 1326 of July 14, 1956, and to previous
894.6363/284
eerrespendenee in regard to the eil situation in Japan
and emeloses, for the information of the Ambassador, a
eopy of despateh Ne. 1914 of June 26, 1936, from the
Amerieam Ambassador at Tokyo.
Emelesure:
Frem Rabassy Tekyo
No. 1014, Jme 26, 1936,
with enelesures.
894.6363/284
M
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
SK/L
7/20/36

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.94)
Stbo
FE
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF THE INETERIOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATL
BUREAU OF MINES
FAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
900 F STREET NW.
July 13, 1936.
1936 JUL 16: PM :3 27
JUL 21 1936
s
62
Department of State
27
DIVISION OF
1936
CONLVURIONS
Honorabl Wilbur J. Carr,
Assistant Secretary of State,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
89
Dear Mr. Carr:
Attention: A-C/C
4.6
2.76
This refers to confidential despatch No. 209/of May 9, 1936, from
car
the American Consulate at Yokohama, Japan, relative to proposed con-
struction of hydrogenation plant in Japan. In the concluding paragraph
3
of the despatch of the reporting office, Consul R.F. Boyce requested
9
available technical information concerning the general subject of
C
hydrogenation processes as applied to petroleum and coal in order that
2
the office might more closely and intelligently follow any possible
developments in Japan.
5
The Petroleum Division, Technologic Branch of the Bureau, has
offered the following information in connection with the specific request
of the Consulate at Yokohama:
"The hydrogenation process as applied to petroleum in the
United States was written up quite extensively in the technical
press three or four years ago. Reference to indexes of
periodicals, such as the Oil and Gas Journal, National Petroleum
News, the Refiner and Natural Gasoline Mamufacturer, Industrial
and Engineering Chemistry, and Chemical and Metallurgical
Engineering, about l932 and possibly earlier, will disclose a
FILED
great mumber of articles dealing with hydrogenation of petroleum.
2
It is not certain that these articles will furnish the informa-
23 19363
tion requested in the last paragraph of the confidential report
from the Consulate at Yokohama but they give all the information
that is available. The section on hydrogenation in the
Proceedings of the World Petroleum Congress, London, 1933,
Volume II, pages 28l-336, has several articles on hydrogenation,
one of which is entitled, "The Hydrogenation of Bituminous Coal".
Apparently the current articles on hydrogenation, and they are
still mumerous, deal meinly with laboratory experimentation.
These articles are to be found mainly in chemical periodicals
and in the press of foreign countries."

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.94)
Certain of the references mentioned by the Technologic Branch may
be available to the reporting office at Yokohama. If such is not the
case, and the Consulate will inform the Bureau, an effort will be made
to furnish photostat copies of such articles as can be obtained from
the original references.
Very truly yours,
1211)
J.S. MCGRATH,
Liaison Officer.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
From the New York American
JUN281930
JAP OIL LAW
H
U.S.UnitAccepts
TOKIO. June 27. -- Standard
Vacuum Oil Co. and Rising Sun
Petroleum, the latter a Royal
Dutch-Shell affiliate, today agreed
to accept the oil law provisions
requiring the storage of an amount
equivalent to six months' imports.
Actual terms of the compromise
were not revealed, but it is under-
stood the government is overlook-
ing the fact that tankage will not
be available on July 1, when the
provision becomes legally effective.
The decision closes a two-year
controversy, in which foreigners'
defiance once seemed likely to
force their withdrawal, resulting
in their boycotting Japan.
The Diet recently voted to de-
fray part of the expenses of build-
ing tanks for storing oil, which
simplified the solution.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE
JUL8 1935
MAN
ReM
JapaneseQuota
Action Pleases
U. S. Oil Firms
Continuing of FormerRates
Is Held Recognition of
Excess Stocks Problem
Advices received from Tokyo. Japan.
that sales quotas on refned oil prod-
ucts for the third quarter of 1936
have not been cut by the Japanese
government, are regarded. in oll cir-
cles here as indicating that Japan
realizes that private interests are do-
ing everything possible to fnd a solu-
tion for the excess stocks problems.
The two leading foreign interests
—Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
owned jointly by Socony-Vacuum
and Standard Oll Company of New
Jersey, and Rising Sun Petroleum.
controlled by Royal Dutch-Shell—
have not compileu with the six-
months excess stocks provislon of the
Japanese ePtroleum Law. which be-
came efective July 1. and omcials of
these companies are gratifed by the
Japanese stand.
Negotiations are now under way
with private Japanese capital in re-
gard to oil stocks in Japan, and it is
the opinion here that some plan will
be worked out satisfactorily soon.
To comply with the excess stocks
provision of the law. it would have
been necessary for the two leading
foreign companies to have expended
more than 10,000.000 according to
ofcial estimates. It was feared for
a time that the government would
take an arbitrary stand. as a result
of the inability of the companies to
comply. and that their sales quotas
would have been reduced.
While executives of the oll compa-
nies concerned are pleased at the
confirmation of former sales quotas.
some concern is expressed that the
Japanese government has not taken
into consideration the fact that
demand for petroleum products
throughout Japan is increasing sub-
stantially.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.94)
DeR
FE
21 1930
26 BROADWAY
FARTMENT OF SIANW YORK
P. W. PARKER
1936 JUL 17 nM 3 55
July 14th, 1936.
894.6363
Fele
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICITIONS
aced
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeok; Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
nos
Department of State,
4
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
new
894.63
The reason we have not written you recently
on the Japan situetion is that we have deliberately marked time
in our negotiations during the last few weeks, awaiting the
critical date of July 1st, on which the Japanese Government
were to allocete the third quarter quotas. On June 29th we
636
were forced to give the Government some assurence that we had
in mind a proposal whereby technically at least, we would be
63/2
meeting the storage provisicn of the law. This we did, and
on July 3rd, we received a telegram from Yokohama announcing
the third quarter quotas. While our allotment of trade for
8
the next three months does not permit us to participate in
9
the naturel increase, we are pleased to say that at least we
received quotas on all products equal in volume to those al-
located for each of the previous quarters.
The assurance we gave the Government in regard
to meeting the storage provision, is predicated on a joint pro-
posal of our British friends and ourselves, that a Japanese
storage company comprising Japanese capital, be formed in Japan
for the purpose of holding for our account, the non-commercial
stock requirements, and on terms which are now being negotieted.
It will be seen from this that we are continuing the policy of
presenting a united front with the British.
We have also, in conjunction with London, of-
fered to make available to the Japanese, certain hydrogenation
processes controlled by our associates. While the Japanese have
undoubtedly made considerable progress themselves in hydrogena-
tion, nevertheless it seems that the Government is interested
in acquiring our processes. We are hoping that our offer will
be of material value in the negotiations regarding the storage
company.
Sinceraly youft,
J.N.Park
16

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.94)
117 1938
a reply refer to
72 004.0565)
My dear Mr. Parker:
In the absence of Mr. Hornbeok I am taking the liberty
of askmowledging the receipt of and thanking you for your
894.6
Letter of July 14 in further regard to the oil situation in
Japan.
36
In this cemneetion we are pleased to note that the
3
Standard-Vaemm Oil Company has received for the ourrent
2
quarter quetas an all produets whieh equal in volume those
8
9
mated for pmevious quarters and that the merican and
British oil interests prinoipally concorned are continuing
the polioy of presenting a umited front.
We trust that you will continue to keep the Department
ourrently and fully informed of developments in the situa-
tion under reference.
Sincerely yours,
3.m
Maxwell M. Hamilton,
Aoting Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
Standard-Vacuum O1l Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
7/17/36

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.82)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
deopalch, as Iousgeet that you read
it'in full.
The despalch indicales thut proes
is steadil- enen if somewhah storoly
teing made towardt ad /ustment o7 the
protlemes afpecting the forii.. vil
in tereals in Japan
It seems to me that with fair
proefects  suceas in sight, the foreigh
bil Com migs would be moshunivise
to continue to in sist upou the fimal
equversations wilt mituui being
beld in hed lyok
sno

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.89)
leenay
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 1938.
Tokyo, July 10, 1936.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
July 30 1938
早936   02
No
ST
394.6363/287
7
In USA
74V
NOO
Coky ao Londom
ale
ear)
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FAP1A
MAR-01939
OF STATE
A-M/E
pw
Honorable
STATE
2,
The Seoretary of State,
FLLED
Washington.
214
Sir:
Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1914, dated
June 26, 1936, and to previous correspondence on the subject
of the difficulties being experienced by the American oil
interests in Japan under the Petroleum Industry Law, I have
the honor to report the following developments in the sit-
uation.
Negotiations with the Japanese Authorities.
As was reported in despatch No. 1914, the local
representatives of the Standard and Shell interests re-
ceived permission from their principals to submit to the
Department

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Department of Commerce and Industry a statement to the
effeot that the Companies are now negotiating a special
arrangement to enable them to fulfill their obligations
under the Petroleum Law and have reached an agreement in
principle. This statement was to be submitted for the
purpose of permitting the Department of Commerce and In-
dustry to grant them quotas similar to those held before
July 1, and to avoid the imposition of the penalties pro-
vided by the Law for the failure to hold the stooks re-
quired. The statement was presented to an official of
the Department of Commerce and Industry on June 26, 1936,
but while the official accepted the statement, he stated
that his Ministry was still somewhat embarrassed, as no
material progress had been made toward the storage of the
oil. However, he said, if the foreign oil companies in-
dicated on the form provided therefor their plans for carry-
ing six months' stocks during the July-September period,
that statement would be accepted as evidence of their in-
tention to carry the stocks required and the Companies would
not be considered as law-breakers. This was done and the
Companies were granted quotas for the July-September period
equivalent to those granted for the first two quarters of
this year.
On June 27 and 28, certain Japanese newspapers pub-
lished statements to the effect that the foreign oil com-
panies' attitude in regard to stock-holding was softening
after protracted nogotiations with the Government, that they
had agreed to fulfill the stock holding obligation and that,
therefore, no penalties would be inflicted upon them. The
special agreement by which the stocks were to be held was
not mentioned by the newspapers.
on

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
On July 4, at their own request, Mr. Meyer of the
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company and Mr. Ely of the Rising
Sun Petroleum Company had an interview with Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice-Minister for Commerce and Industry. Mr. Yoshino
stated that the Minister for Commerce and Industry, in
view of the imminence of the time when all oil companies
were supposed to have six months' stooks in storage, was
compelled to make some announcement of the foreign com-
panies' position. He had, therefore, made a brief announce-
ment to the press but he had mentioned the special arrange-
mont in his announcement. The newspapers, however, had
neglected to include the special arrangement in their
aocount of the interview, and had thus implied that the
foreign oil companies had reversed their position and had
agreed to carry six months' stooks.
Mr. Meyer and Mr. Ely then took up with Mr. Yoshino
the question of the allocation of quotas in the future,
(their companies had been given no share of the natural
inorease in the quotas for the July-September quarter)
as such quotas had an important bearing on their nego-
tiations with the Mitsui interests. Mr. Yoshino stated
that, as the question of stock-holding was still not en-
tirely settled, the question of sharing the natural in-
crease in demand must also be held in abeyance for the
presènt. Mr. Yoshino affirmed, however, that all guar-
antees and benefits embodied in the Five Point Memorandum
of April, l935, would automatically come into force for the
foreign oil companies as soon as the stook-holding obli-
gation was fulfilled, and that he might even consider
putting quotas on a permanent percentage basis.
This

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
This conversation is important in that it olearly
indicates the present attitude of the Japanese authori-
ties toward the question of the position of the foreign
oil companies, and therefore a memorandum of the con-
1/
versation is enclosed.
Negotiations with the Mitsui Interests.
On June 26, 1936, Mr. Meyer and Mr. Ely called on
Mr. Mukai of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha and informed him
that their principals had agreed in general to the plan
previously put forward by Mr. Mukai, namely, that (1)
the foreign oil companies' non-oommercial stock-holding
obligations under the new law be performed by Japanese
interests and (2) a new company to be organized to per-
form this function will derive its income from Govern-
ment compensation and profits on distribution of a share
of the foreign oil companies' trade. Nothing more do-
finite evolved from this meeting.
On July 6, Mr. Meyer and Mr. Ely discussed with Mr.
Mukai of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha some further details
of the problem. As a result of the conversation, Mitsui's
agreement was obtained to the following points:
1. The storage company to be organized by Mitsui
will construct tankage on or adjacent to the eristing
installations of the foreign oil companies.
2. The foreign oil companies will take over stocks
and tanks when they become commercial stocks and tanks.
3. The Japanese storage company will loan the
stocks in bond to the foreign oil companies in order that
the latter as licensed importers may pass them through
the Customs.
on

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
On the question of sending a representative to New
York to disouss further details, however, Mr. Mukai
again refused any agreement.
The local representatives of the Standard and Shell
interests cabled the results of their conversations of
July 4 with Mr. Yoshino and of July 6 with Mr. Mukai to
their principals, adding their opinion that the time
had arrived for more specific discussions with the Mitsui
interests, such as giving the Mitsui interests a rough
estimate of the cost of laying down non-commercial stocks
if on or adjacent to the foreign oil companies' properties.
They also advised an early offer to sell the I.G. pro-
cess for hydrogenation of coal to Japanese interests,
without reference to any question of oil storage, in view
of the fact that the Japanese are proceeding resolutely
with the development of the Japanese Navy's process for
hydrogenation and that a long delay might be disadvan-
tagoous to the holders of I.G. patents.
The head offices of the Standard and Shell interests
have agreed to the proposition, and it is now expected that
negotiations will proceed more rapidly.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Memorandum of Conversation of July 4.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No.1938 of July 10, 1936 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
Notes of Conversation at Ministry of Commerce and
Industry on July 4th. 1936.
PRESENT:
Mr. Yoshino (Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry)
Messrs Meyer(S-V.O.C.) and Ely (R.S.P.Co.)
The first part of the conversation was occupied with the
subject of the reports which appeared in the leading Japanese
newspapers of 27th and 28th June concerning the attitude of
the foreign Oil Companies towards the stock-holding obli-
gations. Mr. Yoshino said that he realized that Messrs.
Meyer and Ely might be placed in an awkward position vis-a-vis
their Prinoipals and he wished therefore to explain that
the newspaper reports were a highly colored version of
a very guarded announcement made by the Minister himself.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely would realize that the imminence of
July lst had necessitated some announcement - in the in-
terests of all concerned - but that it would have been pre-
mature and inadvisable to have made any detailed reference
to the special arrangement which the foreign companies were
discussing but which so far had been agreed upon only in
principle. The Minister had therefore merely mentioned
the special arrangement.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely confirmed that the press reports
might lead to a very dangerous misunderstanding abroad, as
all of them had stated that the foreign companies had swallowed
the precedent to which they had been objecting and which,
as Mr. Yoshino knew, they could not accept; and not one
of them seemed to have made any reference whatever to the
existence of a special arrangement. Mr. Yoshino emphasized
that the Minister himself had mentioned it, quoting the
Japanese expression which had been used, and suggested
that Messrs. Meyer and Ely should advise London and New
York of what had actually taken place, which they promised
to do.
By saying next that he hoped that the negotiations with
Mitsuis would proceed and be brought to a conclusion as quickly
as possible Mr. Yoshino gave Messrs. Meyer and Ely the op-
portunity of bringing up the subjeot of the future treatment
of their Companies in regard to trade quotas. They pointed
out that, as Mr. Yoshino knew, the proposed arrangement
involved a consideratien of trade and that this was a question
which might have a very important bearing on the success
of the negotiations. They assumed that their Companies
could look forward to receiving their full share of the
increase in consumption - but on the other hand they had
just been given for July/September only the same quotas as
for the previousrquarters of the year.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Yoshino immediately confirmed that as soon as
the stock-keeping obligations of the Law were fulrilled
the two Companies would participate fairly in the in-
crease in consumption (mentioning later, parentheti-
cally, that the amount available for distribution might
be affected by the manufacture of substitutes) and re-
minded Messrs. Meyer and Ely that this was one of the
points of the Five Point Memorandum. At present the
special arrangement planned by the Companies was still
under consideration and consequently the question of
their share of the natural increase must also be kept
"on suspense". He went on to say, however, that this
matter of the division of the natural inorease be-
tween importers and refiners was one which he was an-
rious to get settled as soon as possible, especially
as he had held up and was continuing to hold up appli-
cations from Refiners for extensions of their facilities.
His own idea of the division was 50/50. There was also
the question of guarantees for the foreign companies.
In reply to Messrs. Meyer and Ely's question Mr.
Yoshino also confirmed that all the principles covered
by the Five Point Memorandum would hold good and, on
being reminded of the suggestion made by London and
New York in a recent cable that the Companies' position
and their share in the natural increase should be con-
solidated by their being given a percentage share of the
trade, he again emphasized that he wae very anxious to get
this question fired and the future clarified, as he felt
that he had some personal responsibility in the matter.
Messrs. Meyer and Ely thanked Mr. Yoshino for these
personal assurances which gave them a great deal of con-
fidence and which, with his concurrence, they proposed
to convey to their Principals. They understood that what
Mr. Yoshino had said applied also to Chosen and Taiwan -
and they mentioned the former in particular, because there
seemed to be signs that the Government General was inolined
to act independently: they were relying on Mr. Yoshino's
good offices, promised at the time the Directors were here,
to make arrangements with the Overseas Department. Mr.
Yoshino avoided a specific reply, saying that the Chosen
Government-General was "difficult" in other matters, e.g.,
Ammonium Sulphate, with which he had to deal, but inti-
mated that he would continue to work with the Overseas
Department and that the same principles should apply
in Chosen as in Japan Proper.
In conoluding the conversation Mr. Yoshino made one
or two very unofficial remarks. He was sorry that so many
difrioulties had arisen in connection with the Petroleum
Law and felt that much trouble would have been avoided if
there had been more consultation beforehand with the oil
Companies -, with which view Messrs. Meyer and Ely
emphatically conourred. Mr. Yoshino went on to say that he
had to take some responsibility personally, but actually
a great deal of the work in conneotion with framing the Law
had

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
had been done by subordinates, in particular by Mr.
Fukuda, ex Head of the Mining Bureau. Even so, why
had the foreign companies not come to him (Mr. Yoshino)?
Mr. Ely pointed out that the foreign companies would have
been only too glad to do so but that, from the first,
they had been confronted by a fait accompli.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.92)
July 30 1930
1359
To the Ameriean Ambassader,
Leméen.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
lnstruetiem Ne. 154s ef July 22, 1936, and to previous
894.6363/287
eerrespendenee in régard to the eil situatiem in Japen
and emeleses, fer the information ef the Ambessader, a
eepy of despateh No. 19ss of July 10, 19s6, frem the
Anerieas Ambasseder at Tekyo.
Enelesure:
From Eabassy Tekyo
Ne. 1088, July 10, 1936,
with enelosure.
894.6363/287
M.
 30 1933.
FE:RCM: EJL
FE
SAN
7/29/36

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.6363/2900
FOR letter
SEE
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company,
894.6363
New York, New Yorr
Parkor.P.W.) DATED Ang 6..1936
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING: Japanese oil oonoessions in Mexioo:
Copies of letter and memorandum comerning organization of now
Japanese oompany by Sanohu Ikeda to operate in Mexico.
288
2
jah

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.92)
(a)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1977.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, August 6, 1936.
-94.6363
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
935 A  30
No
(S)
22
S
For
Grad
JUUAA
894.6363/289
Fr
t to
youu
ohy
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
MAR - 0 1939
OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG25 1936
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
FULED
Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1938, dated
July 10, 1936, and to previous correspondence on the
subject of the difficulties being experienced in Japan
by the American and other foreign oil companies under
the recently inaugurated Petroleum Industry Law, I have
the honor to report the following developments in the
situation.
Negotiations with the Mitsui Interests.
The negotiations between the Mitsui interests and
the Standard and Shell interests have been progressing
slowly, but apparently steadily, toward a common agreement.
丑
A8

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
As was reported in previous despatches, an agreement on
principle has been reached, but details have yet to be
arranged. These details must be referred back to the
headquarters of the Standard and Shell interests. At
present the principal desiderata of the foreign oil
interests are that the Jananese Government shall indicate
the maximum amount of storage to be required (to place a
"ceiling" on the storage, as kir. Kurusu expressed it),
and to indicate clearly the amount of governmental com-
pensation which may be expected for the carrying of excess
stocks in the future. These items are necessary to the
foreign oil interests in order that they may reach an
agreement with the Mitsui interests. As the foreign oil
interests have not been able to obtain a definite statement
on these points from the Japanese Government, they have
asked the Mitsui interests to make the necessary inquiries.
The Mitsui interests have also indicated clearly that they
will place no relience upon Japanese governmental com-
pensation for interest and profit on and amortization of
their investment in carrying the foreign oil interests'
non-commercial stocks, but will expect a definite annual
percentage of the foreign oil interests' sales quotas
as their primary compensation.
Relations with the Japanese Authorities.
In the meantime the authorities of the Japanese Ministry
of Commerce and Industry have been pressing the foreign oil
interests for some definite statement indicating when the
storage facilities, which it is implied will be built, will
be constructed and when the oil required by law to be stored
w111

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
will be placed in storage. The oil interests have there-
fore, with the approval of their head offices, stated
that the construction of tanks will be commenced by the
end of September next and that the oil will be placed in
storage about April, 1937, "subject to alteration depending
upon special erranement now under discussion".
Hydrogenation of Coal.
As was reported in despatch No. 1938, the oil in-
terests have decided to sell the I.G. process for the
hydrogenation of coal to Jananese interests without
reference to the question of oil storage. Accordingly,
on July 15, 1936, the local represe tatives of the foreign
oil interests called upon Lir. Yoshino, the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry, and stated that the I.G. pro-
cess was offered for sale, entirely outside any negotiations
on the oil question. They then requested information as to
the Japanese interests which they should approach in recard
to the matter. ir. Yoshino advised them confidentially
that the Government had a plan of forming a pool, which
would acquire the various hydrogenation processes and which
would probably be owned partly by the South Lianchuria Rail-
way and partly by the large financial interests, such as
Mitsui, Mitsubishi and Sumitomo, and agreed that, pending
a decision upon the pool, it would be better for the
foreign oil interests not to negotiate with private
Japanese interests. Lir. Yoshino, however, exhibited,
considerable interest in the proposal of the oil interests
to sell their patent rights to Japanese interests.
He later brought up the question of the economio
value of any of the coal hydrogenation processes. He
thought

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
thought that gasoline made from coal might be commercially
feasible if the price of petroleum gasoline could be raised
to 55 sen per gallon (the present price is about 50 sen
per gallon). It was pointed out to him by the representa-
tives of the oil interegts, however, that distribution
costs alone amounted to about 15 sen per gallon, and that
in reat Britain, where hydrogenation of coal had been
placed on a commercial basis, the selling price of gasoline
made from coal was about double the selling price of gaso-
line in Japan .
The newspapers, in commenting upon the determined efforts
of the Government to encourage the production of gasoline
by the hydrogenation of coal, state that the selling price of
gasoline must rise to 70 or 80 sen per gallon before the
scheme will be commercially feasible.
The Search for Oil.
The Embassy has been confidentially informed that the
Toa Sekiyu Kabushiki Kaisha (Far astern Petroleum Company)
of Fusan, Chosen, has secured an oil concession in the
Tehuantepec valley of Mexico amounting to 280,000 chobu
(one chobu is equivalent to 2.l54 acres). The Company,
which was formed in ay, 1936, has a capital of Yen 1,000,000,
fully paid up, and plans have been made to increase the
capital to Yen 10,c00,000 and 1ater to Yen 30,000,000.
The Company is now erecting tanks to receive the crude oil
at Fusan, Chosen , and is planning to erect tanks at Wakayama,
Japan. It is also stated confidentially that Mr. Ikeda, the
representative

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
representative director of the Company, has the support
of the Japanese Army, and that an army officer accom-
panied him to Mexico to investigate the properties which
the Company now controls.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph . Grew.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 14, 1936.
BOT:
There is nothing very striking in
Tokyo's despatches No. 1977 of August 6,
1936, and No. 1989 of August 20, 1936, on
the subject of American oil interests in
Japan.
The Embassy reports that the negotiations
between the foreign oil companies and Mitsui,
with regard to the storage of the non-
commercial stocks required by law, are pro-
gressing very slowly -- in fact so slowly
that the Government departments concerned are
showing signs of impatience. The Vice
Minister for Commerce and Industry has warned
representatives of the foreign oil companies
that unless matters proceed more rapidly the
Japanese Government will have to take a hand.
Mitsui promised to give the foreign oil
companies a concrete proposal in the near
future.
The despatches outline recent develop-
ments with regard to further efforts to
develop Japanese sources of fuel supply. It
is reported that a company is to be set up
in Manchuria to engage in the production of
gasoline by the hydrogenation process. It
1s further reported that consideration is
being given to the enactment of a law
requiring dealers in gasoline to mix a certain
proportion

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
proportion of alcohol in all gasoline sold.
In view of the relatively small quantity of
aloohol produced in Japan, and in view
further of the high cost of alcohol, it
seems unlikely that this project will be put
into effect.
Attention is drawn tc the last nara-
graph of the latter despatch, in which it
is stated that although it would seem that
the efforts of the Jananese Government tc
make Japan independent of foreign sources
of liquid fuel "would be doomed to failure",
the success which the Japanese have rad in
other directlons, notably in regard to iron
and steel, and chemicals, the Embassy appears
to believe that the Japanese Goverrment will
eventually get a considerable measure of suc-
cess.
894.6363/290
FE:EHD/DLY

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, August 20, 1936.
No. 1989.
SUBJECT:
Jode
46
2
S
aa
8
894.6363/290
1959251
The Honorable
fomdon
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
11/17/36
Sir:
46
Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1977, dated
July 10, 1936, and to previous correspondence on the subject
of the difficulties being experienced in Japan by the American
and other foreign oil companies under the Petroleum Industry
Law, I have the honor to report the following developments
in the situation.
FILED
Negotiations with the Mitsui Interests.
The negotiations of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
the Rising Sun Petroleum Company with the Mitsui interests, in
regard to the storage by the Mitsui interests of the non-commer-
cial stocks required by law, are progressing very slowly,
F/FG
largely due to the fact that each point of the negotiations
must

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
must be referred by the local representatives of the two
oil companies to their home offices and by the fact that
the Mitsui representatives also must refer each important
point to their directors. It is the opinion of the local
representatives of the oil companies that the negotiations
would have been concluded by now if the discussions had been
held in New York as was originally proposed by the Standard
and Shell interests. However, there appear to be no serious
points of difference between the foreign and Japanese in-
terests and, therefore, there is no reason to believe that
the two parties will not eventually reach an agreement.
In the meantime, however, the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry is pressing the foreign oil companies for some con-
crete evidence of their intention to arrange for the carrying
of the stocks required by the law. On August 11, 1936, Mr.
Yoshino, the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, invited
the local representatives of the foreign oil interests to his
office and informed them that other Departments of the Govern-
ment were dissatisfied with the apparent lack of progress
made in the negotiations between the foreign oil companies
and the Mitsui interests, rendering most difficult the posi-
tion of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry vis-a-vis other
governmental Departments. Mr. Yoshino also stated that the
Government would have to inject its influence into the nego-
tiations if those negotiations became too protracted. More-
over, if too much time should be taken for the negotiations
it might be necessary to have other governmental representa-
tives, probably of the Army and the Navy, bring pressure
on

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
on the Mitsui interests to start the purchase of tank materials.
The local representatives of the oil interests conveyed the
gist of this conversation to the Mitsui interests, who pro-
mimed to make some concrete proposal to the foreign oil in-
terests within a short time.
National Fuel Policy.
In connection with the present examination by the Cabi-
net of proposed State policies in Japan it has been reported
in the newspapers that the interested members in the Cabinet
have agreed that a national fuel policy shall be adopted.
Details of the proposed policy have not been disclosed but
the newspapers assume that the policy will include the ex-
ploitation of oil and coal resources in Japan and Manchuria;
a search for oil resources abroad; and the development of oil
substitutes within Japan.
As a first step toward the implementation of this policy,
according to the ASAHI of August 10, the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry desires to establish a fuel bureau independent
of the Ministry itself. The projected bureau will have as a
board of advisers the Chief of the Cabinet Investigation Bu-
reau, the Chief of the Bureau of Resources, Vice Ministers
of the Ministries concerned, some Chiefs of Bureaux, and
scholars and experts on fuel matters. The Bureau will have
a General Affairs Division and First and Second Divisions.
The General Affairs Division will handle general affairs, in-
vestigation and planning. The First Division will handle
resources, oil, and fuel utilization. The Second Division
will handle substitute fuels and alcohol.
In

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
In addition the OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI NICHI
of August 5, l936, reports that the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry will include in its budget for the next fiscal
year an unspecified sum for research work in connection with
the liquefaction of coal. The article states that the sum
will be used for the purpose of investigating the kinds and
qualities of coal available for liquefaction and the possible
amount of production. The fund will be used for investiga-
tions both in Japan and Manchuria.
The plans for the liquefaction of coal in Japan appear
to be progressing steadily. The newspapers report that a
company, which has been projected for some time past, to be
named the Manchuria Coal Liquefaction Industry Company, will
be established in Ssupingkai, Manchuria, on August 27, the
negotiations between the promoters and "Manchukuo" having
been concluded. The company will have a capital of Yen2,500,000
and intends to produce 10,000 tons of gasoline per annum. The
company will use coal from the Hsian Mine of the Manchuria
Colliery Company and will employ a hydrogenation process de-
veloped by an expert of the Japan Iron Manufacturing Company.
The gasoline produced by the company will be sold to the "Man-
chukuo" Petroleum Monopoly at 30 sen per gallon. The shares
of the company will be taken up by Japanese life insurance
companies, the Manchuria Colliery Company, the Manchuria Oil
Company, the Nippon Oil Company and the promoters. The com-
pany expects to start actual production some time in l937.
The authorities realize that the commercial production
of gasoline from coal will be unprofitable at the present
prioo

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5-
price of gasoline in Japan (about 50 sen per gallon) and,
therefore, are prepared to raise the price of gasoline to a
point where the production from coal will be made a commercial
PrOpOSition. The OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI NICHI of
August 8, 1936, reports that the Finance Office has decided
to raise the price of gasoline in Japan either by imposing
a new consumption tax (rumored to be 5 sen per gallon) or
by raising the tariff on imported gasoline. The newspaper
states that the opinion of the authorities of the Finance
Office is that the projected national fuel policy should be
regarded as very important from a broad view of national de-
fense and that in order to develop the coal liquefaction in-
dustry it will be necessary to raise the price of gasoline.
It has also been reported in the newspapers that the
authorities are considering the introduction of a bill into
the nert session of the Diet compelling all dealers in gaso-
line to mix a certain proportion (reported to be 30%) of al-
cohol with all gasoline sold. In his conversation with the
local representatives of the foreign oil companies on August
11, however, Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minister of Commerce and
Industry, stated that he did not believe, from the experience
of European countries, that the proposition was hopeful. He
thought that it would take five years for the alcohol pro-
ducers of Japan to reach a state of production where even 1o%
of alcohol could be mixed with the gasoline consumed. He also
thought that, assuming the cost of alcohol to be 90 sen per
gallon and the selling price of gasoline to be 60 sen per
gallon, the Government would have to subsidize alcohol to the
amount

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
amount of about 30 son per gallon. He also said that the
movement for the use of alcohol as fuel is political in
nature and that it is being advocated by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry which is anxious to promote the
welfare of the farmers.
In view of the fact that Japan possesses at present
very slender oil resources, it would seem that the efforts
of the authorities (more especially the authorities of the
defense forces), to make Japan independent of foreign sources
of liquid fuel, would be doomed to failure. In the light
of past experience with Japanese initiative and ability,
particularly in regard to iron and steel, synthetic fertilizers
and synthetic dyestuffs, however, the Embassy is not sure
that they will not succeed in considerable measure in the
course of time.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
Septemrer 30 1930
1445
To the American Ambassador,
Lenden.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
1nstrustiem No. 1369 of July 30, 1936, and to previous
894.6363/290
cerrespondemee in regard to the oil situation in Japan
and eneloses, for the information of the Ambassader,
eopies of despatches No. 1977 of August 6, 1936, and No.
1989 of August 20, 1956, from the American Ambassador at
Tokyo.
Enolosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1977, August 8, 1936;
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1989, August 20, 1938.
SEF 30 1936
OR
894.6363/290
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
0/50/36

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
291
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./104
#1991
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
-.) DATED
Aug 20. 1936
894.6363/
TO
NAME
1-1187
Japanese Petroleum Industry Law: American oil interests in Japan.
REGARDING:
291
FRG.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a).
American Oil Interests in Japan.
During the month of July the local representatives
894
of the Standard Vacuum and Rising Sun Petroleum Companies
continued their negotiations with the authorities of the
Japanese Ministry of Commerce and Industry and also with
the Mitsui interests with a view to arriving at some sort
of agreement that would enable the Companies to meet the
requirements of the Petroleum Industry Law and at the s ame
time would allow the Companies to operate profitably in
Japan. These negotiations appeared to be making favorable
progress, the representatives of the oil interests reporting
to the Embassy that agreement had been reached in principle
both with the Japanese authorities and with the Mitsui
interests.*
(b).
* Embassy's despatch No. 1938 of July 10, and No. 1977 of
August 6, 1936.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6
SEE ...894.00..P.R./105
FOR#.2046
FROM Japan
Dickover
...) DATED
Sept. 18. 1936.
C
TO
NAME
1-1187
2
6
2
REGARDING: Foreign oil companies stated that the construction of the
storage tanks required by the Petroleum Industry Law
would be commenced by the end of September, 1936.
292

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests in Japan.
Pressed for a definite statement by the Japanese
8ar
6362
Minister for Commerce and Industry, the foreign oil com-
panies stated that the construction of the storage tanks
required by the Petroleum Industry Law would be commenced
by the end of September 1936 and that the oil would be
placed in storage by April 1937, "subject to alteration
dependine upon special arrangement now under discussion".*
However, the foreign oil interests were unable to obtain
a definite statement from the Japanese Government as to
the maximum amount of storage to be required and the amount
of governmental compensation which may be expected for the
carrying of excess sto-ks in the future.
The negotiations vetween the Standard Vacuum Oil Com-
pany and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company on one hand and
the Mitsui interests on the other appeared to be progress-
ing slowly but steadily toward a common agreement. The
Mitsui interests promised the local representatives of
the foreign oil interests that they would make some con-
crete proposal to the foreign oil interests within a short
time.**

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.95)
87
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
P. W. PARKER
936 07T 26 PM 12 44
Cy à Toley
October 20th, 1936.
yolo
nai
OMMTIONS
ackd
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
dr2436
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
now
894.636
When I say that I just returned from Europe
this week and that when I left New York early in September,
our negotiations in Japan had not materially advanced beyond
those described in my letter of July l4th. I am sure you will
understand why I have really had no occasion to write before
3
this.
894.6363/286
2
The first part of this month while I was in
6
London, our British friends and we were able to reach a clear
3
understanding of the course we shoula pursue, and consequently,
I am now pleased to advise you that the Japanese Government has
accepted in principle a plen whereby Mitsui & Company will store,
on behalf of both of us, the non-commercial stocks obligatory
under the Petroleum Control Law. The final details are now being
worked out in Japan and we enticipate these will very shortly be
settled to the satisfaction of all concerned.
Briefly, it is contemplated that Mitsui will build
sufficient tankage and purchase sufficient stocks to meet these
requirements and in return will receive the Government subsidy
plus a commission from us on a small amount of business we will
cede them, thus providing for an adequate return against their
investment.
When the negotiations are definitely concluded, we
shall have pleasure in advising you, but we wish to take this
opportunity now of expressing our deep appreciation to you person-
ally, and to the State Department, and also of course to the
American Embassy in Tokyo, for the most valuable assistance con-
stantly rendered us during this rather difficult and complicated
period.
Sincerely yours,
PN. Parks

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.94)
88
October 28 1936
Dear Mr. Parker:
The reoeipt is aaknowledged with thanks of your
letter of Oetober 20 in whioh you outline the basis of
894.6363/293
and progress made in the negotiations which you and your
British friends are conducting with the Japanese Govern-
ment and with Mitsui and Company in regard to the Petro-
loum Control Law.
It is of course gratifying to note that you antisi-
pate an early settlement of this matter on terms satis-
faetory to all concerned and that you have found of valme
the assistance rendered by the Department and the Ameriean
Embassy at Tokyo.
Simcerely yours,
Stanley K. Horabeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Easterm Affairs.
OOT 86 1938
Mr. P. W. Parker,
Standard-Vaeuum O1l Company,
A true y
26 Broadway,
mal.
New York,
York.
aeus
ENS
E:RCM:EJL
FE
10//8

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
FC
89
Octoher 0 1930
.1128
To the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Embassy's
despateh No. 1989 of August 20, 1936, and to previous
894.6363
eorrespondence in regard to the oil situation in Japan,
and encloses, for the information of the Chargé, a copy
of a letter under date Ootober 20, l936, addressed to
the Chier of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs by
Mr. P. W. Parker of the Standard-Vaouum Oil Company,
2
whioh contains inter alia an expression of appreciation
6
C.
"for the most valuable assistance constantly rendered us
during this rather dirfioult and complioated period" by
the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo and by the Department.
Enolosure:
From Mr. P. v. rarker,
October 20, 1936.
894.6363/293
reew
FIAC
FE:RCM/REK:EJL
FF
10/27/36

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.85)
PARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Nov~31936.
recounts in delail the nepoteatinis
belioeen the foreign m mloristiand.
Mitiue, which remulled in an!
oral agreemeut, and lerlam
qerurau ecs orally geren by
sapanisy officiald to the foreigh
val inbertito. the derpalch
should be ead im full.
You coill wole Thah in the lach
oral asu araueis alovi mcutifued
Graultl.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
1936
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2076.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, October 14, 1936.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
894.6363
894.636/294
EgL
sli
and natuction to
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV3-1936
The Honorable
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
ner
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
FILED
290
No. 1989, dated August 20, 1936, and to previous corres-
1936
pondence on the subject of the difficulties being ex-
perienced in Japan by the American and other foreign oil
interests under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report
the following developments in the situation.
The negotiations with the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, by
which the Standard and Shell interests hoped to arrange
the carrying of the non-commercial stocks required by the
law

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
92
- 2 -
law of their companies, progressed in a desultory manner
throughout the summer. The problem of the arrangements
under which the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha would carry the non-
commercial stocks was not easy of solution because of a
large number of details which it was necessary to work
out before a final arrangement could be concluded. These
details included such problems as the proportion of the
trade of the Standard and Shell interests to be turned
over to the Mitsui interests as partial compensation for
the carrying of the non-commercial stocks; whether such
trade should be determined as a percentage or as a fixed
annual amount; whether the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha should
conduct this trade on a commission basis or on a c.i.f.
basis (in the latter case assuming the business risks
incident to the trade); whether the share of the trade
turned over to Mitsui should be istributed through the
Standard and Shell dealers or through new dealers to be ap-
pointed by Mitsui; whether or not the present Japanese
agents of the Standard and Shell interests should parti-
cipate in the capitalization of the new stock carrying
company; and the period for which the foreign oil in-
terests should conclude a supply contract with the Mitsui
Bussan Kaisha. The largest problem, however, arose
from the question of whether the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
should participate in the Standard and Shell trade as
a trading concern, taking the risk of all the variable
factors, such as the increase or decrease of consumption,
the increase or decrease of Government compensation for
stook-holding, the profitableness or unprofitableness of
the trade, etc., or whether Mitsui should act simply as

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
13
- 3 -
a money lending concern requiring a fixed rate of com-
pensation for its services in connection with the stock-
holding problem.
In the meentime both the foreign oil interests and
the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha were being pressed by the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry to hasten the negotiations, as
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry was in a difficult
position vis-a-vis other interested ministries and the press.
The foreign oil interests were approached on August 17,
August 24, and September 9, by the Ministry of Commeroe and
Industry, urging greater speed in the negotiations. Finally,
on September ll, the foreign oil companies were in-
formed that they must reach a definite settlement of the
question by September 20, and a hint was given by the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry to the effect that that
Ministry would be compelled to change its policy if a
settlement was not reached in the very near future, in-
timating that the present applications for additional
domestic refining licenses would be granted and that the
official attitude toward the foreign companies would be
changed to the disadvantage of the foreign companies.
The foreign oil interests were requested to show some
concrete progress towards the fulfillment of the stook-
holding requirement of the law in order to ease the
situation.
The Mitsui Bussan Kaisha had by this time taken the
stand that it did not wish to conclude an arrangement
which would put that concern in the position of a trading
concern, subject to the variable factors involved in
the trade. The company stated that it was willing to
invest the amount of Yen 17,000,000 to carry the three
months'

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
14
- 4 -
months' non-commercial stocks for the foreign com-
panies and would accept as its remuneration the Govern-
ment compensation given for stock-holding plus an amount
of guaranteed profit on the trade to be turned over to
it by the Shell and Standard interests which would com-
pensate the company to the amount of 8 per cent per
annum on its investment. The LWitsui Bussan Kaisha, in
other words, took the position that it desired to be
simply a money lender, desiring guaranteed interest
at the rate of 8 per cent per annum on the investment
made. The foreign oil interests took the position that
they would turn over to the  itsui Bussan Kaisha as
partial compensation for the carrying of the non-com-
mercial stocks a fixed percentage of their trade in
Japan. With the expectation that the amount to be
carried in stock would be a fixed amount, of which
the proportion in relation to the amount of trade
would decrease annually as the trade naturally in-
creased, the foreign oil interests estimated that
the non-commercial stocks carried by Mitsui would
gradually diminish, having been taken over by the oil
companies as commercial stocks, and that eventually
the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha would no longer bé carrying
non-commeroial stocks and would have as a free gift
the fixed proportion of the trade turned over to that
concern by the foreign oil interests. According to
their caloulations, therefore, the foreign oil in-
terests considered that the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
shoula

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
9s
- 5 -
should acoept a lower rate on their investment in the
beginning with the expectation of a much higher rate
at a later time. The Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, however, re-
fused to consider this proposal and insisted upon thefr
proposition that the foreign oil companies guarantee
it a fired rate upon its capital investment, without
consideration of the variable factors involved in any
trading proposition, but agreed to reduce the interest
expected upon its investment to 7 1/2 per cent.
At this point a difference of opinion arose between
the Standard and Shell interests, the latter wishing
to adhere to the position that Mitsui should accept
the variables involved in a trading status, in order to
defend the principle that the foreign oil interests can-
not consent to pay for the carrying of non-commercial
stocks, even under some camouflaged arrangement, while
the Standard interests desired to safeguard their trading
position in Japan, paying the price therefor, rather than
to set up a third party in permanent trade at a sacrifice
in profits to the foreign companies. The Standard view
eventually was accepted by the Shell interests.
The Standard and Shell interests, however, did not feel
in a position to guarantee a fixed rate to the Mitsui Bussan
Kaisha while so many variable factors existed in their
Japanese trade. Consequently, before agreeing to the pro-
posal of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha they requested that some
assurances be obtained from the Government in regard to
(1) the quantitative maximum which would be set my the
Government, in order that the foreign companies might
visualize

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
7
- 6-
visualize what their share of the 7 1/2 per cent de-
manded by Mitsui would amount to; (2) some assurance
from the Government as to continuance of trade with a
share of the natural increase, as otherwise the foreign
oil interests could not be sure that they would have funds
at their disposal with which to pay the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha;
and (3) an assurance from the Government that prices would
be maintained by the Government, as it would obviously
be impossible for the foreign oil interests to pay com-
pensation to Mitsui when they were taking losses instead
of profits on their Japanese trade.
On September 19, therefore, representatives of the
Standard, Shell and Mitsui interests jointly called upon
the Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry who gave them
the following assurances:
1. The Government will give written assurance that the
rate of compensation to be paid by the Government for stock-
holding will not be altered unfavorably to the stock-holders.
2. No definite assurance can be given at the moment
in regard to the quantitative maximum of stock-holding
as such assurance cannot be given while the foreign com-
panies are in a position of law breakers. The Vice-
Minister stated, however, that it was his personal opinion
that the Government would fix a maximum to stook-holding
when all the companies had complied with the law, as the
Government realized the practical disabilities involved
in the increasing stook-holding obligations.
3. The Government will abide by the Five-Point
Memorandum of April, 1935, in regard to allocation of
a share of the natural increase in consumption to the
foroin

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
22
- 7 -
forwign oil companies when the original idle refining
capacity in Japan will have been absorbed, unless in the
meantime the produotion of gasolene substitutes in Japan
will have equalled the amount of natural increase.
4. Reasonable prices will be maintained and the
importers will not be compelled to sell at unremunerative
prices.
The head offices of the foreign oil interests then
agreed to the arrangement with Mitsui Bussan Kaisha on
the basis of these assurances given by the Ministry of
Commeroe and Industry. No definite contract has yet
been signed between the foreign oil interests and the
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha but the verbal agreement so far
reached is along the following lines:
The Mitsui Bussan Kaisha will invest approximately
Yen 17,000,000 to erect tanks, partly on the oi1
companies' property, partly on the Mitsui Bussan kaisha
property and partly on property to be acquired by itsui,
and will purchase the oil required to be carried by the
companies from the Standard and shell interests. For
this service Litsui will require compensation at the rate
of 7 1/2 per cent per annum on the investment. A part of
this compensation will be derived from the compensation
paid by the Government for stock-holding, and the re-
mainder will be obtained from the foreign oil interests
in the form of commissions to be paid to mitsui for the
marketing by mitsui of a variable quantity of gasolene
and heavy oil each year, the gasolene and heavy oil to
be distributed primarily through the present agents or the
foreign oil companies. This arrangement is to continue
for

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
28
- 8 -
for twenty years, during which period the mitsui Bussan
Kaisha will amortize the investment for tankage, unless
in the meantime the non-commercial stocks are taken over
as commercial stocks by the oil interests. If for any
business reason it should become necessary to terminete
the contraot before twenty years, a settlement will be
reached by negotiation and mutual agreement, but the foreign
oil companies will not be responsible for any loss incurred
by the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha if the foreign oil companies
are compelled to withdraw from Japan because of Governmental
action. Although a few minor points, such as the allowance
to be made to Mitsui Bussan Kaisha for leakage and for
earthquake insurance, are still being negotiated, the main
agreement has been reached as inaicated above.
If and when a final signed contract is concluded, the
Embassy will endeavor to obtain oopies for the Department's
files in order that it may have on record the details of
the conclusion of this protracted and troublesome dispute.
On October 9, 1936, the local representatives of the
Shell and Standard interests addressed a letter to the
Minister for Commerce and Industry, enumerating the oral
assurances which had been given them by the Vice Minister
on September 19, and asking the Minister to confirm these
assurances. The confirmation has not yet been received by
the oil interests, although there is little doubt that
the confirmation will be given in due course. The Standard
and Shell interests, however, wish a more formal con-
firmation to be obtained by the Embassies and it is expected
that they will request the American and British Embassies
to obtain some further confirmation through the Foreign
Offiee. The Embassy believes that this might be done in
tho

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.92)
7
the same manner as the confirmation of the Five Point
Momorandum of April, 1935, was obtained, namely, by pre-
senting a memorandum of the assurances to the Chief
of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign
Office, and asking for oral or written confirmation of the
memorandum. If the Department has any objection to this
procedure, telegraphic instructions are requested.
Respectfully yours,
UiDeikn
E.R. Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
863.6
ERD:r
人

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.90)
1
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
PARGAIR
This cable was  in connial Cd.
It sheatd be careully parasirases betere
Washinglon,
DIVISION OF
3nm
AMEMBASSY,
AN ILDS
TOKYO (Japan).
140
Your despatoh No.' 2076, October 14, in regard to 011
interests in Japan./.
Proposed action, as outlined in'concluding paragraph
894.6363/294
or'your despatch under reference, has Department's approval.
Dopartment suggests that, in your discretion, Embassy
ondeavor to obtain written rather than oral confirmation of
Japanese Government's'assurances.
(Rcu)
894.6363/294
reas
FE:RCM:EJL
Encpbered bu
Sent buo
11

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.96)
1938
.1475
To the American Ambassador,
Lendon.
The Searetary of State refors to the Department's
instrustien No. 1445 of September 30, 1986, and to previ-
894.6365/2
eas eorrespomdemee in regard to the oil situation in
Japan and eneloses, for the information of the Ambassador,
a eopy of despateh No. 2076 of Ootober 14, 1956, from the
Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo.
234
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 2076, 0ctober 14, 1936.
894.6363/294

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
AM
103
Fe
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
This telegram must be
Tokyo
olosely paraphrased be-
fore beingtcommunicated
Dated Deoember 14,1936
to an yone. (B)
FROM
Rec'd 9:45 a. m.
Jelegrog t thyo.
Secrctary of State,
Dec 17'364
Washington.
946363
1296
14
Jele
259, December 14, 1 p.
894.663/295
FOR THE ACTING SECRET.RY.
294
Embassy's despatch No. 2076, 0ctober 14, 1936.
One. The Standard Vacuum (il Cempany will shortly
approach the Departm ent to request that diplomatic efforts
be made to assist them in view of the present impasse in
their negotiations th the Japanese Government.
Two. After two years of unremitting offort on the part
of the oil interests the negotiations have reached a critical
moment due to the fact that the Ministry of Commeroe and
Industry has failed to give satisfactory written con firmation
of the oral assurances previously given in regard to the
security of the future trade of the oil interests in Japan.
Moreover, rocent actions of the authorities of the Ministry of
FTLED
Commerce and Industry particularly the unwarranted decrease
see
of the foreign companies kerosene quotas for 1936 and the pro-
posed revision of the petroleum tariff which will discriminate
against importers indicate that if matters are left exclusively
Commerce
in the hands of the Ministry of ( and Industry the au thorities
cannot
F/G

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
103
2~No. 259, Deoember 14, 1 p. m. from Tokyo
cannot be relied upon to adhere in good faith to those
assurances.
Three. My British oolleague feels that the time has
comc for strong diplomatic representations and he is cabling
today to London to recommend that Eden send for the Japan ese
Ambassador to express the anxiety of the British Government
as to tho future of British oil interests in Japan, to ask for
a categorical statement of the intentions of the Japanese
Government because its present attitudo arouses the suspicion
that the Japanese Government wishos to drive tho foreign oil
companics out of Japan; and to request that if such is not the
case the Japanese Government give the written assurances re-
quired by tho oil interests.
Four. I concur in the British Ambassador's judgment that
such action is fully warranted and I furthcrmore beliove that
tho present moment is psychologically favorable for such a
step. In view of the preoccupation of the Japanose Minister
for Foroign hffairs with foreign and domestic complications it
appoars that the best results might be obtained if you would
have a frank and forceful talk with Saito along the general lin's
of the proposed British representations in London. Details of
the situation will be supplied to the Department by tho oil
company.
RR
GREW
(*) Apparont omission

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
104
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TELEGRAM SENT
ETHER
OONFIDENTIAL CODE
hent
Department of State
OR
Washington.
L3/295
936 DEC 18 PM 6 20 December 18, 1956.
8 An
AMEMBASSY,
D vistoh of
This
COMCONS
LONDON (England). S
B
452
mail instruction
nou
Reference Department's 1478 of November 19 in regard
/294
to oil/situation/ in Japan.
894.63
For your information.Department  that,in
view of/failure of Japanese Ministry of Commerce to confirm
in writing oral assurances previously given in regard to
36
security of future trade of foreign oil interests in Japan,
3
21
British Ambassador at Tokyo has recommended to his Government
6
that/ Eden discuss situation with Japanese Ambassador at
7
and
London,
Grew suggests that Department take similar action
in Washington.
Department strongly of opinion that suggested action
would not/repeat not/be as expedient as direct approach in
Tokyo by British and American Ambassadors to Japanese
Prime Minister e has so informed Grew for his considera-
tion in consultation with his British colleague.
Acting.
N
ceeLs
F/
FE:RCM:EJL
FG
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
D. C. R.—No. 50
1-1402

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.92)
1E
lis
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CORRECTED COPY
1-1396
FROM
GRAY
U
Tokyo
Dated December 17, 1936
Yole
Rec'd 2:40 a.m.
Telegram. 0o,
Secretary of State
A8Joky Dec 17 36
Washington
reces
21 1936
894.6363/296
One. The ASAHI this morning reports that the
Japanese Oil Companies are agitating against the grant-
ing of any increases in the gasoline sales quotas by the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry to the Foreign Oil
Co panies because (a) the purpose of the petroleum industry
9
law is to protect the Japanese oil industry and therefore
the quotas of Foreign Companies should not be increased
and (b) the Foreign Oil Companies have as yet failed to
FTLED
fulfill the oil storage obligation. The.newspaper adds
that the question is expected to become an issue in the
coming session of the Diet.
Two. The above is transmitted as a further indica-
tion of the situation with which the foreign oil interests
are faced in Japan.
GREW
JS

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.95)
7E
16
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JS
Gray
1-1896
FROM
TOKYO
Dated December 17, 1936
Rec'd 2:40 a.m.
Secretar y of State,
 AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
Department of State
894.6363
261, December 17, 11 a.m.
295
Embassy's 259, Decombor 14, 1 p.m.
894.6363/29
Onc. The ASAHI this morning reports that the
res
Japanese Oil Compan are agitating against the
granting of any incroases in the gasoline sales
quotas by tho lMinistry of Commorce and Industry to the
Foreign Oil Compani because (a) the purpose of the
petroleum industry law is to protect the Japanese oil
6
6
industry and therefore tho quotas of Forcign Compan1es
should not be increased and (b) tho Forcign Oil Com-
pan havo as yot failed to fulfill tho oil storage
o bligation. The newspaper adds that the question is
expoctod to become t?n issuo in the coming session
of the Diet.
Two. The above is transmitted as a further
indication of the situation with which the foreign oil
interests are faced in Japan.
GREW
JS
11

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
107
TELEGRAM SENT
RING OFFICE
TO BE TRANBMITTED
BIOATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Department
DARTATR
OR
ARTMENI OF SIATE
Washington,
92.6863/296
936 DEC 17 PM 1D33mber 17, 1936.
AMEMBASSY,
2pm
TOKYO (Japan)
160
294
One. Reference Department's 14o, November
Has
any action been taken under this/authorization?
894.6363/296
295
Two. Reference your 259 December 14, 1 p.m., and
294
261, December 17, 11 a.m.
Mr. Coe or Standard/Vacuum has called at Department
this morning and supplied details, confirming last sentence
259
your telegram
, and the present proble
has been disoussed at length. Department concurs/in your
view and that of your British colleague that diplomatic
representations should be made at this time, but feels
that,/rather than to follow the procedure suggested of
conversations in Washington and London/respectively,/it
would be more expedient to have /conversations held by
you/and your/British/colleague respectively with the
Japanese Prime Minister. We feel that ambassadors on the
spot are more completely familiar with the/facts/antecedent
and present and have a more/effective feel of the situa-
tion and what might most appropriately and effectively/be
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
.19
7
D. C. R.—No. 50
1-1412

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.90)
Goula orrieials Ia Weskington and in Lemten!
we deabt /the advisability or'quotr strong representations
 in a positive sense at this stage, as we stimate
teh represeatations would not repeat not be effee-
tive."we therefore envisage an 'approach in the foye of'an
eapression of anriety regarding the 'Tuturd or the foreign
il interests oncerned, respeotively, with 
recmest fer a olear indication that it is not repeat not
e desire of the Japanese Goverment to drive the foreign'
il'companies out and' rquest that'the  assurances
sought by these 'oil interests be given's in writing.
Department desires that you disouss this matter'along'
lines msgested'above imediately with your British'colleague'
 that, if yeu 'and he 'agree that this line of'approach
im praetieable, you ask him'to suggest this 'lime to his
everment and to seek from it'authorizatios, such as
meparment now tives you for perallel'astion, so to'preeed.
Bepartment desired that aotion'taken by the two Goverments
be approximately Mimaltaneous and substantially lmtieal
aarmete./Yen therefere will take sen vis-a-vis'the

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.83)
Japemese Geverment only when your British colleague 1s
prepared to take'similar aotion/ Department strongly Teels
that such procedure'at Tokyo'would have 'distinet advantages
ver'the'suggested'procedure'or'approaches'at London and
mone
Washington.
an
DEC 17 195C: 
w
我
mmt.
UGUT PRINTING OPFICE

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.94)
DER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
she
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Copece & Landon
Docember 17, 1936.
Jun.29.
Conversation:
Mr. Kersey F. Coe, Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company;
1ARS
Mr. Hornbeck;
Mr. Dooman;
994.6363
RAIHIVED
894.6363/297
Mr. Ward;
11936
Mr. Mackay.
Subject: Oil situation in Japan.
Mr. Coe described at some length the developments
leading up to the existing impasse in the negotiations
between the foreign oil interests and the Japanese Gov-
ernment (see attached memorandum of December l6 prepared
by Mr. Coe), with particular reference to the statements
contained in the attached copy of a telegram under date
December 15 roceived by the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
from Mr. P. W. Parker, who is now in London. Mr. Coe in
effect said that the refusal of the Japanese Government
FILED
to confirm in acceptable form the oral assurances repeat-
edly made to the foreign oil interests had, together
with certain other disturbing developments in the recent
past, raised grave doubts as to the good faith of the
Japanese Department of Commerce; that it was the unani-
mous opinion of the concerned American and British oil
F/FG
interests

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
interests and the American and British Ambassadors in
Tokyo that it would be useless to attempt to deal fur-
ther with the Japanese Department of Commerce and that
in consequence representations should be made to the
Japanese Ambassador in Washington by the Department of
State and to the Japanese Ambassador in London by the
British Foreign Office.
Following a frank and lengthy discussion of the
situation, with particular reference to the statements
made in Mr. Parker's telegram under reference and in
275
Ambassador Grew's telegrams No. 259 of December 14 and No.
296
261 of December 17, the opinion was reached by those
present, including Mr. Coe, that although it would seem
advisable that diplomatic representations be made to the
Japanese Government at this time it would be more expedi-
ent to have the conversations take place in Tokyo between
the American and British Ambassadors respectively and the
Japanese Prime Minister rather than, as suggested, in
Washington and London respectively. It was also the
opinion of those present that, as, among other reasons,
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company is not at this time pre-
pared to state whether it will or will not withdraw from
Japan if its desires are not met by the Japanese Govern-
ment, the proposed representations should not be of too
strong a character and that the approach to the Japanese
Government

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Government should take the form of an expression of anxi-
oty in regard to the future in Japan of the foreign oil
interests concerned and a request for (a) a clear indica-
tion that it is not the desire of the Japanese Government
to force the foreign oil companies to discontinue opera-
tions in Japan and (b) written confirmation of the oral
assurances already given to the foreign oil interests.
A telegram addressed to the American Embassy at
Tokyo in conformity with the decisions indicated above
was then drafted in which Ambassador Grew was authorized,
if after consultation he and his British colleague should
agree that the proposed line of approach is practicable
and if after referring the matter to his Government the
British Ambassador should receive authorization to pro-
ceed as indicated, to make with the British Ambassador
approximately simultaneous and substantially idontical
representations to the Japanese Prime Minister.
Mr. Coe, upon taking his departure, said in effect
that his report to Mr. Parker would state merely the fact
that the Department had requested Ambassador Grew to con-
fer with his British colleague along certain lines which
were deemed appropriate under existing circumstances.
now
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
December 16th, 1936.
Following the enactment of the Japan Petroleum
Industry Control Law, Mr. G.S. Walden, Chairman of the Board of
Directors, and Mr. P.W. Parker, President, of Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company, proceeded to Japan the early part of 1935 to discuss with
the responsible officials of the Japanese Government, the application
of this Law in respect t the operations of the Company they represent.
They were joined by Mr. Godber of the Shell interests.
311199
Discussions ensued with officials of the Department of
Commerce and the Foreign Office, with the result that there was drawn
up and submitted to the Japanese Foreign Office, that hich all parties
concerned now call the Five Point Memorandum. A copy of this is at-
tached, from which it will be observed that the representetives of
Standard-Vacuun il Company received definite assurances in respect to
future operations by that Company concerning the points involved. In
addition, it should be noted that assurance was extended that any ex-
penditures incurred by Stancard-Vacuum Oil Company would not be ren-
dered unprofitable. This point was in relation to expenditures neces-
sary in order to comply with the stockholding provisions of the Law.
Subsequently, and for reasons well known to the Japanese
Government, an arrangement was made by Standard-Vacuun Oil Company with
Mitsui & Company, for the creation by them of a Compeny for the purpose
of holding the former's non-commercial stock, obligutory as a result
of the stockholuing provision in this Law. This agreement met with the
approval of the Japanese Government, and Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
were prepared to undertake all the oblig&tions under it on the previous
assumption of the assurances applyin to the Five Point Memorandum.
At this juncture Standard-Vacuum Oil Company applied for
written assurances of the Five Point Memorandum. On November 24th, the
reply from the Japanese Government was:
"In regard to four items proposed in your letter, we will
consider them carefully in our future enforcement of the
Petroleum Law."
In view of previous negotiations, the recognition of the
Five Point Memorandum and other principles subsequently enumerated, it
is the opinion of Standard-Vacuum Oil Company that this reply from the
Japanese Government is not satisfactory and that they are entitled to
unqualified affirmation of the Five Point Memorandum and other prin-
ciples as evolved during the course of these negotiations which have
been proceeding for more than two years.
The principle of non-discrimination was accepted by the
authorities and is one of the points in the Five Point Memorandum. This
being so, the proposed tariff revision, which it is understood will be
presented at the next session of the Diet, involves heavy duty increases
on finished petroleum products, which in effect, will most seriously

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Dec. 16/36.
penalize the business of Standard-Vacuun Oil Company, and in its
opinion, is discriminatory against them inasmuch as it will place
the local Japanese refiners on a far more favorable cost basis than
the importers of finished products, such as Standard-Vacuun Oil Company.
Standard-Vacuun Oil Company protest in respect to the alloca-
tion of Kerosene Oil Quotas. At the beginning of i936, the Mining
Bureau of the Department of Commerce, after first depriving Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company of that volume of their Kerosene trade represented
by their quota for Light Oils for 1935, and of which a considerable
portion was done in imported oils, then estimated that the 1936 con-
sumption would be about 10% less then l935 end applied this cut pro
rata to both importers and Japanese refiners, but vitin the result
that in comparison vith the actual sales of i9F5, the Jupenese refin-
ers received small increases and Standard-Vacuum Oil Compeny suffered
a decrease. Recently when the Mining Bureau reelized that actual
consumption would exceed quotas eranted, they issued additional quotas
to the Japanese refiners snd did not permit Standard-Vacuum Oil Com-
pany to participate in the estimated increased volume of trude. As a
result Stondard-Vacuum Oil Company has been deprived of a lerge amount
of trade as compared with its 1935 actual sales, which is contrary to
No. 1 of the Five Point Memorandun and i: also discriminatory in action.
ATTACH.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN PETROLEUM CONTROL LAW
October 1st, 1935
When the Directors left Japan the following is an outline
of the unders tanding reached in connection wi th the future business
of the S.V. Co. and the ising un Petroleum Co. at a meeting held on
April 13th, 1.35, to be shovn to or ign  fice by eville April 16th
Answer
(1Y 1935 Gallonage: The 3. V. Co. an: the R.S.P.Co. will
Yes
be granted as a mininum their 1.3: callonege.
(2)
Future Quotas:
Government will make no commitment at
this time to either importers or Refiners for the allo-
cation of the future natural iicrease but it wi ll be
divided fairly between :efiners and Importers.
Quotas of gasoline to Importers after 1935 will
include a minimum of 33-1/3, but probably more of the
Yes
natural increase, hosen probably more.
present position
Kerosene
Yes
to be granted
to be discussed
Fuel Cil
(3) Stock Holding: Stock-keeping obligations will be three
months, including working stocks. To be arranged as soon
as possible but not later than Oct. 1st, 1935. No
expenditure for stock-keeping until change made and
Yes
position legalized.
(4) Gasoline Prices: Domes tic prices to be based on costs
and if present price shown to be unremune rative the
Department will sanction an increase and will not ob-
Yes
lige Companies to sell at a loss.
(5) Discrimination: There will be no discrimination
Yes
against these Companies.
Cannot give guarantee of above for a definite period but any
expenditure incurred will not be rendered unprofitable.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.93)
0
INCOMING CABLEGRAN
OMPWPARKER
LONDON
LAALE
ANSD
NEW YORK
PAGE 1
ANSDAY
TO
LETILH
18/36
Dec 16
DATE
DEC
NO
REC D
OSIRD
The followin joint calle-s ron Yoko ana review-s-in-d recent dovelopment-
(of in) cable Dec. 4th to whic joint peply vas nace that I (we) were in full
greement with the procedure reco: nended o E Re er to our tele ram ov ind
lotter was submitted ov. llth and ve received Tov. 24th re ly from covernment
whioh mainly consisted of stron reprimand on account of celay-s in fulfill
mont of stockhold ing oblirations to ether with only lnost parenthetical re-
ference (to) request for assurance whic!: translate s as follows uoTE In re-
gard to four item-s proposed in your letter ve will consider them carefully in
our future enforcement (of) pe troleum law U UCTE STOP Enbassy s strong-ly en
dorsed our opinion this unacceptable lecause A Not satisfactoy renly our letter
as finally worded which is entitled (to) unqualified affirnation B Ho satisfact
ory or appropriate record (of! assurance s given after 2 years negotiations
(with) foreign companies ; op Therefore after discussion s with Y who arrees
(with) our view s und pronised to intervene wit! conmerce linistry we interview
ed new vice minister yesterday Srop Latter pronised to reconsider but took atti-
tude that government reply although ambiguous in expression was in effect con-
firma tion (of) our understanding in re ard to assurance-s and that in practice
we should be treated accordingly sTop We informed hin however that our dissat.
1sfaotion was intensified by treatment which has been iven us coinoidentally
by Mining Bureau in regard to 1936 Kerosene quota particular s of which are as
follows One At the beginning of the year Mining Bureau after first depriving
Standard-Vacuum Oil Co. of that volume of their trade Kerosene represented (by,
1n) their quota light oil-s 1935 of which about 5, l00 kilolitres were done in
imported oil-s estimated that 1936 consumption will be about 10% less than 1935
quote and applied this cut prorata to importers and refiners but with the

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
W PARKER
LONDON
CABLE
ANSU A
NEW YORK
PAGE 2-CORREC TED COPY
fo
DATE
DEC 15 36
Nco Dec. 16th
DISTH
Rosult-s in comparison (with) actual sales 1935 refiner-s received small in-
crease and importers suftered decreate s op Tvo Recentl when Jininr rureau
realized that actual ly consunptiou vould exceed uota a panted as ahove they
issued additional quota ag regating 10 700 (to refiners but nothing to import
tion Importers have been cut 9 200 and recinere i creased 12 700 (in compar
ison (with) 1935 actual sale-s)
STop hree (In) Defence of this allocation
Mining Bureau has produced figures desl ned to show increase (in/of) 13,800
Kerosene produced fron domestic crude cil for sale in Japan proper hut on
the other hand the decreuse (in/of) that part (of) Japan  roper Kerosene quota
against this treatment strongly on the round that it is inequitable and con-
trary to spirit of assurance s pronised by Goveriment clso on the ground that
in principle Government reservation s that our 193s allonage 1 e. our estab-
lished trade position subject (to) a reduction if increased indirenous product
ion is greater (than) increased consumytion it (this) should not apply as long
as room can be found for increased indi/enous production without affecting re.
finers established interest a and trade position s i e. in  lace of in orted
crude oil-s STop Embassy s will support and if necessary make use of this case
in order to try to obtain satisfactory assurance-s fron the Government and over-
come this discriminatory treatment UouoTE We quote essential features of mess-
age of Dec. 7th received via confidential source s which refer s (to) above
cable Dec. 4th QUoTE By reason of the following A Delay on the part (of) Govern-
mont and form their reply-s had taken B Attitude (of) official-s and treatment
in regard to kerosene quota s C Report-s to the effect (that) petroleum polioy

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
INCONNGCABLFGRAM
W. PARKER
LONBON
JW YORK
PAGE
DATE
DBC 15/36
Dec.16th
now is oontrolled (by) nigher inrluonce-s of whom vommeroial Ministry has
booome praotically only administrative tool we sense that tnere nave (has)
boon late-ly ohange-s in une attitude toward-s foroign coripany-s STop In my
(our) opinion it is not impossible that for various reason-s suoh (as) reel-
ing-s (of) greater politioal seourity cuntinued availability or supply-s of
orude from otner souroe-s tnan ours and optimism in regard to plans for manu-
faoture of substitute-s on large soale Government nas deoided tnat they can be
loss dopendent on us and our good will and therefore now are unwilling to ive
assuranoe-s suoh as we are denanding especially in view of Japanese canital
not ours being used to rinanoe  months stock-s 3Top We feel therefore that
nonoe forward we may be faoed with more ruthless nationalistio polioy and we
will keep you olosely advised or development-s in regard to assuranoe-s UNqloTE
Cablo of December loth Quote-s accordins (to) Press renort-s whioh we under-
tand to be substantially oorrect revision-s of tariif-s decided for presenta-
tion next session Diet (to) embody-s following One Benzine duty-s increased
.05 kerosene light oil-s 4 70 lubricating oil-s 10.70 (per) American gallon
groases 1.70 per pound Two Duty-s (on) fuel o11 20 degrees Beaume and under
6.70 diesel oil-s 25 aegrees Beaume and under 10.30 per 1000 litors 1.e. about
the same (as) at present but free of duty privilege-s be aboliehed entirely
in respeot of industrial offtake and partially reta  ed in respeot of fishing
boat- offtake by means of subsidy-s to consumor-s Three Crude oil-s to be
elassified on the basis of gravity but we believe with some subeidiary class-
ifioetion-s based on distillation to 2l5 degrees Centigrade wi th the following
result-s  Heavy i.e. lubricating oil-s crude-s duty unohanged B Light crude
oil-s duty inoreased ostensibly by about .O5 (per) Amerioan gallon of gasoline

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.92)
T
COMINS
ABA
W. PARKER
LONDON
AH
YORK
PAGE 4
ANSD RY
LEITIR
DEC 15/36
DEC 16/36
DATE
RECD
DISTRD
content-s STop If forogoing is correot refiners will get rull advantage or in-
orease in duty (on) kerosene light oll-s lubricating oil-s fuel o1l and part
advantage in regard to diesel oil-s while in addicion im osition (or) duty-s on
fuol oil and/or diesel oll-s likely in my(our) opinion (to) have far reaching
offeot on oil-s consumption visavis solid fuel mainly at the expense of imported
heavy oil-s STop We are seeking conrirmation and explanation from Sommerce
Ministry and will telegraph again Top In addition to tariff revision gasoline
consumption tax O5 per American gallon 1s planned Ul oTE Hessage of Dec. 1lth
qUoTE Finance Department uas announced urart aloonol  onopoly s/stem for Japan
Proper to be submitted (to: lagislative Bureau and to next sesslon of Diet
whioh inoludes 7 years plan involving capltal outlay tyo million yen 1or manu-
facture (of) fuel aloonol 2s, Ou0 tons first year zu7, vuu tons seventh year
compulsory mix-ing-ed (witn) asol ne vegimiing a ril l98  yoTE Nessa e or
December l4tn Keferrint to tariii revision as er telegran oi sece  er lctn
UoTE It is reporteu now tat saosluy prop sal is to ve ior noat buildine and
only indireatly compensatory ior vltnurawal ol) iree o. duu privilege-s
thererore reriners will nave fuil alvantage o1 siesel oil uut. -s also STop
Altnough to our anowieage propesea revision-s w len is are) to so tefore arift
Revision Committee about sece ber zuth alreau it(t is) nas been aiscussea with
Japanese company-s  ine-in bureau nave re Lieu to us lal latter not et
reached stage wuere tle can Jisouss sTop reler to ou telegram oi Dece ber 4th
we have not yet receiveu roply irou vice inister mop After jull liscussion
unanimous opinion oi both  mbaysy-s and orseives tat no satisfaction will be
obtained irom Jonnerce ministry anl t at wole si tuation is suoh trat our case
must be tanen up immediatel: witn ni, ner autnorities sror Ambassalor-s consider-s

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.95)
T
W. PARKER
LONDON
CA
NEW YORK
PAGE 5
DEC 15/36
DEC 16/56
C
best method to do this will be for foreign office-s State Department to take
up with Japanese Ambassadors to London W shington on broad ground-s mat
company-s have not been able to ootain et satisfactory conrirmation of verbai
assuranoe given after 2 years ne gotiations and that recent act-s of Japanese
authorities have (has) been such that even if con irmation were iven it would
appear (tnat) company-s will not be treated in tue s irit or tose asstrance-s
STop Both Ambassador-s are telegraphing in above sense on tne understanding
(that) we will request you anproach loreign oriice-s (of) State De artment
Washington and especially in view of tariir nessage-s Dece lter lutn I(we)
recommend you ao so (tnis) inmediately outlinin istory or negotiations d ring
the last 2 vears and cite treat ent in rear to erosene qlota-s ard renorted
tariff revision-s as reason-s for my(our) fears ror the Tut re es ecially in
regard to our estavlished uraue n sition and vested interests
UNQUOTE We are
pursuing matter nere and if possible will inuicate attitude of fcreign office-s
STOp In any event I(we) tlink you siould advise arents and immeaiately take
up with State Department STop Advise me(us) as soon as State Department attitude
known
P. W. PARIER

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.84)
Deeember 21 1950
-1162
To the Ameriean Abessader,
Tokye.
The Leting Seeretary of State refers to the Depart-
894.6363/297
129C
mmet's telegrem No. 160 or Dember 19, & p.., and to
previees cerrespendence in regard te the eil situstien in
Japan and in comneetion therewith eneleses, fer the
infermetien of the Ambassador, a eopy, with enelosures,
of e memerandum ef a comversatien whieh teek plase en
Deeember 17, 19ss, between a representative of the
stamdare-Vacwum Oil Company and certain officers of the
mapertment.
Eaeleoure:
297
国
ack

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.86)
December 21 1956
.1532
to the meriean Ambasseder,
Lenden.
The Asting Seeretary of state refers to the Depert-
1294
894.6363/297
mass's Lnstrustiem No. 147a or Movember 10, 1966, and to
previems cesrespendense in'regard te the ell situatiom in
Sapes and in eeameetien therewith encleses, fer the
intermetiem of the Anbessader, a coyy, with enelesures,
ef a mamerendum ef a eonversaties whiek teek place en
Bésember 17, 19ss, between a representative of the
stendare-Tasuum Oil Company and cortain efficers of the
Sagartment.
A true op d
DEC 18 1936 M
m
m.m..

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.95)
1
10
18
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
1-1896
This telegram must be
FROM
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated December 19, 1936
to anyone. (c)
gole
Rec'd 10:35 a.m.
à Sotey
Secretary of State
Teligram
Washington
A
lec. 23
894.6
296
894.4363
Department's 160, DecemberA7, 2 0.m
636
One. I have discussed with my British colleague
the question of representations concerning the oil si tuation
22
along the lines suggested by the Department.
298
Two. In view of the attitude of the Department,
Clive will recommend to his Government that a further
diplomatic approach approximately simultaneous and sub-
stantially identical in character be made by us in
Tokyo. lie, however, feels very strongly that a further
approach of this nature would be ineffective and insuf-
ficient to secure results. During the past two yearswe
have repeatedly supported our oil companies by diplonit-
ic representations here with almost negative resuits. The
FLED
present Minister and Vice . inister for Foreign affairs
have probably never familiarized themselves with the
details of the situation and would merely pass on to the
Ministry of Commerce copies of the aides memoires which we
would present. In the Ministry of Commerce the matter
F/G
is handled by an official who is known to be anti-foreign
in

=== Page 321 === (confidence 1.00)
U -2- #264, Dec. 19, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
in his attitude while the new Vice Minister is less
helpfully inclined than was his predecessor Yoshino.
The polite written inquiry (sent after oral assurances
had been given) from the oil companies in regard to assur-
ances for future trade evoked a reply of which the Japanese
text was offensive in tone. Clive, therefore, feels that
the time has come for a new method of procedure and be-
lieves that our representations here would be given em-
phasis if a day or two prior to our representations, the
anxiety of our two Governments regarding the future in
Japan of the foreign oil interests and their desire that
assurances as to the intentions of the Japanese Government
be given in writing were appropriately presented to the
Japanese Ambassadors in Washington and London.
Three. fter thenost careful consideration I incline
to the opinion that representations from both ends of the
line would serve to emphasize the unsatisfactory nature
of the situation.
Four. Our recommendations for "strong representa-
tions" did not envisage anything further than a formal
approach such as was suggested in the Department's 160.
We feel, however, that unle ss the situation is now pre-
sented with marked emphasis our representations will be
dealt with by the Foreign Office as a matter of diplomatic
routine with only negative results. We obviously do not
envisage anything in the nature of "demands" which would
defeat

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
111
U -3- #264, Dec.'19, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
defeat their own purpose.
Five. We doubt the advisability of an approach to
the Prime Minister. Such procedure 1s not understood in
Japan and by going over the head of Foreign Office and,
therefore, causing the Foreign Minister a loss of
face the result might be more harmful than helpful to
the oil interests. If the Department approves, however,
I could take a favorable opporturity after the formal
representations have been made to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs to discuss the situation informally with the Prime
Minister.
Six. As we are now on the threshold of the holidays
when only the most pressing business is dealt with
by the Departments of the Japanese Government, we feel
that no step should be taken until after January 8. My
British colleague will probably recommend that, in the
meantime, the British Ambassedor in Washington be instructed
to discuss the matter with the Department.
Seven No action has been taken under the authoriza-
tion in the Department's 140, November 6, 3 p.m., as the
request for this authorization contemplated only the con-
firmation by the Foreign Office of such assurances as the
oil interests might receive from the Ministry of Comme rce.
The oil interests have received no satisfactory assurances
for confirmation.
GREW
k1p

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This tel'egram must be
Tokyo
FROM
closely paraphrased
before be ing communicated
Dated December 22, 1936
to anyone. (c)
Rec'd 12:13 p.m.
t
Selequan i5
Secretary of State
Solkyo
Ivonof
Washington
AL LASTERN AFFAIRS
dic 23 ees
4A
00221936
894.6343
RUSH
Department of State
265, Decumber 22, 8 p.m.
Embassy's 264, December 19, 6 p.m., paragraph six.
894.6363/
One. The local representatives of the oil interests
have today asked that at least some preliminary diplomatic
approach to the Japanese Government be made either in
Washington and London or in Tokyo before the holidays--
storage
2
(a)-because not having fulfillcd the diplomatie promises
6
6
the foreign oil companies are in the position of law
breakers and are liable as penalization to have their
1937 sales quotas reduced unless they are supported by
FILED
diploma tic measures and--(b)-because the anticipated
approval by the tariff investigation commission of the
proposed revision of the petroleum tariff should be
forestalled. Any discriminatory tariff revision as the
Department is aware would be contrary to the oral assur-
nces given the oil companies. It is expected that the
1937 quota will be allotted and the tariff revision ex-
amined within the next few days.
F/FG
Two. I shall, however, take no action here without
the

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
113
U -2- #265, Dec. 22, 8 p,m. from Tokyo
the Department's authorization and unless the British
Ambassador takes an approximately simultaneous and similar
step. Clive informs me that he is cabling similarly nd
urgently to London tonight.
GREW
RR

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
114
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
before be ing communicated
Dated December 23, 1936
to anyone (B)
Rec'd 9:35 a.m.
1-1336
FROM
Secretary of State
2el. to
Division of
Washington
FAH LASTERN AFFAIKS
23
slc
UEG1936
VERY URGENT
Department of State
266, December 23, 7 pom.
299
Embassy's 265, December 22, 8 p.m.
One. My British colleague informs me that he has
just received his instructions to the effect that Eden
894.6363/300
grees with your views and that Clive is to concert with
me and tc proceed as soon as possible to joint (repeat
joint) representations to the Japanese Government.
Clive proposes that th two embassies prepare an identic
(repeat identic) memorandum to be communicated tomorrow,
the 24th, to the Minister for Foreign affairs, either
personally or in some other manner if the minister cannot
see us.
Two. Please rush instructions if not already sent.
FILED
I feel that our representations should be approximately
simultaneous and substantially identical not (repeat not)
joint and identic.
Three.
According to the telegram received by Clive
Eden also took advantage of an interview with Yoshida to
draw attention to the difficult position of the Britiah
oil interests because of the failure of the Japanese Gov-
FXFG
ernment to live up to its promises,
RR
GREW

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.96)
115
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
fellect
Department of State
Charge. Department
PARTAM
OR
Čharge to
Washington,
956 DEC 23 AM 11 37
300
December 23, 1936.
894.6363
AMEMBASSY,
This coore was surr confidential Code.
It shoud pe care  corapnras-o oefor
TOKYO (Japan).
C
Rush 164
298
Res
299
Your 264, December 19, 6 p.m., and 265, December 22,
300
8 p.m. and 266/, December 23, 7 P.m.
Or. Department approves of procedure suggested in concluding
sentence paragraph five of your telegram 264 and you may so
894.6363/300
procoed if and when your British colleague is prepared to
take similar action.
For your guidance: The Department has not repeat not
shared the view of your British colleague that there should
be made/QUOTE strong UNQUOTE/ diplomatic representations,/
for the reason inter alia that/Standard-Vacuum, we understand,
and Shell, we presume, have not repeat not decided on a
definitive /course of action in the event that the assurances
desired are not repeat not forthcoming. It has seemed to
us (see Department's 160, December 17, 2 p.m.) and we con-
tinue of that opinion, that circumspection is called for in
the tone of representations until the companies are prepared
to make such decision. Apparently, however, Department and
Embassy are now 1n agreemunt as to the tone of the representa-
Enciphered by
F
Sent by operator
.11.
G
D. C. R. No. 50

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.91)
llb
TELEGRAM SENT
epartment of State
Washinglon,
 which sheuld next be made to the Japanese Govern-
In view of the foregoing/and after further/careful
consideration of the points raised in your telegramsunder
reference(we do not repeat not, at least at this time,
favor the/making of representations to the Japanese Ambas-
sadors at Washington/and London.
Two. Your 266, December 23, 7 p.m., just received. You
are authorized, as per Department's telegram 160, December 17,
& p.m., to/proceed in accordance with) the view expressed
in paragraph Atwo of your telegran 266
moue
Acting.
DEC 23 1930
max
EN
M..
PRINTING OPPICE

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
17
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This telegram must be FROM
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated December 24, 1936
to anyone.(B)
Rec'd 6:34 a.m.
tlo
Secretary of State
Washington
FAN ALFAIRS
A
11936
268, December 24, 6 p.m.
Department of State
Department's 164, December 23, 1 p.m.
I carried out the Department's instructions in an
interview with the Minister for Foreign Affairs this after-∞
394.6363/301
noon and after an oral presentation of the details of the
situation I left with him an aide memoire based on the
296
Department's telegram No. 160,
December 17, 2 p.m.,
paragraph 2. The Minister said that he was unfamiliar
with the subject but would study it and would reply as
sonn as possible. The Minister received my representa-
tions and the reading of the aide memoire in a wholly
friendly way and his attitude remained thoroughly
FILED
cordial throughout the interview.
The British Ambassador made similar representa-
tions a few moments earlier.
GREW
JS

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
BOR
FEL
936 C 30 AM 11 41
NEw YoRK December 28, 1936.
sote
cki'd.
OIVIS'ON OF
JAPAN
COMMUYITIONS
lvision of
897.6363
AND
FAR LASTERN AFFAIHS
A
1430
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affaixs,
Department of State
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
EC 291936
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6363/302
I am pleased to quote a cable just in this
morning from Yokohama:
"Referring to our joint telegram Dec. 14 both Ambassa-
dors Dec. 24 made strong representations to Minister
of Foreign Affairs recounting history of our negotia-
tions expressing anxiety over present situetion and
officielly requesting in substance that ONE Japanese
Government give Embassy a substantial indication that
foreign companies will be accorded fair treetment per-
mitting them to operate on a reasonable commercial basis
TWO If it is not intention of the Japanese Government
to drive foreign companies out latter shall be given
the assurance which they are seeking STOP Minister of
Foreign Affairs expressed surprise that oil issue has
not been settled and stated after studying matter he
would answer as soon as possible Friends have tele-
graphed to London similarly."
You very likely have also had similer advices
FILED
approprietely pass on to me, I shall be very grateful if you
will either give me a ring on the telephone or send for me to
come down to Washington.
I just returned from London last Thursday and
expect to be here from now on.
May I take this opportunity to express the hope
that you have had a very Merry Christmas and that the year 1957
will be a happy and prosperous one.
.N.Pa p
Sincerely yours,
F/FG
PWP
Enc
P.W.PARJER

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.89)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
DAILA
ANS D BY
CABLE
YORK
ANS'D BY
LETTER
DEC
28/36
NO
REC'D
DISTRD
forring to our cont te le n
strong representat:o.s
ar negotiations ex
questin
tial indicamon () fore
mitting therm to ore 
tention of
b
re
Affalr  erut
after d
eraphed to o to

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.89)
December 29, 1986.
Dear Mr. Parker:
The reeeipt is eeknowledged with thanks of your
letter of Deeember ss quoting the text of a eable from
Tokohama in regard to the approaches made on December 24
894.6363/302
to the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs by the
Ameriean and British Ambassadors in Tokyo on the subjeot
of she oil situation in Japan. As you surmise, the
Department received a similar report from our Ambassedor
at Tokyo.
We shall be glad to keep in mind your desire to have
eommaieated to you suoh information on the situation as
may come to the Department and as may seem likely to be
helpful to you.
I appreciate and cordially reciprocate your empression
of Meliday greetings.
Sincerely yours,
mab
Stanley X. Horabeek,
Chief,
Division of Par Bastern Affairs.
F1
Mr. P. W. Parker,
F
standard-Vaouwm eil Company,
ORsony
Q
26 Breeewey.
DA.C 30 1936
aal.
Sow Yosk, Bew Yesk.
0..

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 13, 1937.
Tokyo's despatch io. 2183 of Decem-
ber 15, 1936, outlines certain plans for
increasing production in Japan of liquid
fuel.
There are four separate rrojects for
the extract or of cil from coal by various
rydrogen processes. liowever, a bill is to
be introduced into the resent sessior of
the Diet for tle fornaticn of a quasi-
official company wlich will take over all
tle  rocesses for the liquefaction of ccal
and vill license and finance private
companies to operate with t! ese processes.
The company is to lave a canital of
100 million yen, one-half of w) icl will
be subscribed by the Covernment. The
final objective of tle lan is to rroduce
each year one million tons of gasoline and
one million tons of reavy oil. he
opinion prevails that the Covernment is
unduly optimistic if it believes that it
can succeed in producing any such quantity
seven years rence, as nlanned, for the
reason that the plants now existing or
projected have a total outout of only
100,000 tons per annum.
The despatch confirms previous reports
that there is under conterpletion establish-
ment of an alcohol monopoly and for the
compulsory mixture of fuel alcchol with
gasoline.
Beginning

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Beginning at the foot of page 5 of
the despatch, there will be found a
syllabus of what is described as the
"National Fuel Folicy". It is surested
that you glance throurh that araranl.
Note the opinion of the mbassy
expressec in the concludin aracranl of
the despatch, to tle effect that
eventually Janan will attain a certain
degree of inderendence frem forein
sunnlies of liquid fuel.
394.6363/303

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.89)
4
OFFIBE OF ER ASER
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JAN 22 1937 4
π
OF THE
PEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 SON OF
PHADL ARLMENTS
1A
AMERICAN EMBASSY
JAN197
Tpkyo, December 15, 1936.
894.6363
No. 2183.
C
SUBJECT:
JAPAN'S SEARCH FOR OIL.
03
SNO
FECORDS
F
No
937 i 4
ANO
JAIN151937
COM
E3C
894.6363/303
COPIES SENT TO
A
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
O.N.L. AND M.L.D.
The Honorable
aus
fee
030mae
The Secretary of State,
G DESK
Washington.
WHB
290
Sir:
ASSISIANT SFCRETARY
DEP
With reference to this Embassy's despatch No. 1989,
detd August 20, 1936, and to previous correspondence
OF ST
Japanese Government to find sources of liquid fuel
outside the control of the United States and Great Bri-
FH
tain, I now have the honor to report the following de-
19371
velopments in the situation.
Hydrogenation of Coal.
Several projects have been announced during recent
months for the establishment of plants in Japan and
Manchuria for the hydrogenation of coal and the production
thereby of synthetic gasoline and fuel oil. The Japanese
Navy
11

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Navy Ministry, which has been experimenting for years
on processes for the hydrogenation of coal, has now,
according to the press, developed a process which is
believed to be commercially feasible and has entrusted
the industrial development of this process to the South
Manchuria Railway Company. A plant to produce gasoline
and fuel oil on a commercial scale from coal is now un-
der construction by the Railway Company at Tokuyama,
Yamaguchi Prefecture, within the precincts of the Naval
Fuel Depot. The annual production is not stated, but
the press reports that the plan is to expand the plant
gradually until the Japanese deficiency in oil has been
overcome.
The Mitsui Bussan Kaisha has purchased the Japan
rights to the German Fischer process for the liquefac-
tion of coal and is reported to be planning to erect two
plants, one near its coal mines in the Hokkaido and one
in Kyushu. The machinery for one of these plants has al-
ready been ordered, mostly from Germany, although some
parts are to be built in Japan. The cost of the plant has
not been published, but the rumored capacity of the plant
already ordered is 30,000 tons of gasoline per annum.
It has also been reported in the press that the Nip-
pon Sangyo Kabushiki Kaisha (the Kuhara-Aikawa interests)
have formed a combination of coal mining interests for the
purpose of establishing a company, capitalized at Yen
20,000,000, for the liquefaction of coal and the produotion
of gasoline. This combination is understood to be negotia-
ting for the I. G. process, controlled by the International
Hydrogenation

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
Hydrogenation Patents Company of Holland, part ownership
of which is held by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.
Two plants for the liquefaction of coal by hydrogena-
tion are under construction or planned in Manchuria. The
South Manchuria Railway Company, it is re orted, has de-
cided to build a plant at a cost of Yen 14,000,000 at
Fushun (where the great open-cut coal mines are located),
presumably using the Navy process. Work was supposed to
have been started on the plant this year and will be com-
pleted in June, 1938. The output of the plant will consist
of about 20,O00 tons of gasoline and other oils per annum.
The Manchuria Coal Liquefaction Industry Company (A Manchu-
rian legal entity with Japanese capital), with a capital
of Yen 5,000,000, is reported to have started work on a
coal liquefaction plant at Ssupingkai, in Manchuria. This
company will use a coal liquefaction process developed by
Mr. C. Kuroda, of the Yawata Steel Works, and plans to pro-
duce about ll,ooo tons of gasoline and other petroleum sub-
stitutes per annum.
Under the plans for self-sufficiency in liquid fuel
evolved by the National Fuel Commission, the Department
of Commerce and Industry will introduce into the coming
session of the Diet a bill providing for the formation of
a semi-official company with a nominal capital of Yen
100,000,000, half of which is to be subscribed by the
Government. The company will also be authorized to issue
debentures up to Yen 200,000,000 or Yen 300,000,000, and
provision will be made for the company to increase its
capital sufficiently to permit total expenditures during
seven

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
seven years of seven or eight hundred million yen. This
company will take over and control all the processes used
in Japan for the liquefaction of coal and will license and
finance private companies to operate witn those processes.
In other words, the semi-official com any is to be a hold-
ing company to control and finance all coal liquefaction
operations in Japan. The objective of the scheme is to
produce 1,000,000 tons of gasoline and 1,000,000 tons of
heavy oil from coal per annum, under a seven-year develop-
ment plan. The Government is to guarantee the company di-
vidends at the rate of five per cent per annum. In view
of the existing shortage of funds in Japan for the financing
of military expansion, however, it is problematical if this
ambitious scheme for securing a supply of liquid fuel for
Japan will succeed in obtaining the approval of the Diet.
It will be observed that the combined total of the out-
puts of the various projects for the liquefaction of coal,
including those building and those merely planned, but ex-
cluding the enormous Government scheme, is less than 100,000
tons per annum. As Japan uses something over 2,000,000 tons
of petroleum and petroleum products per annum, the output
of the coal liquefaction plants cannot be considered as of-
fering any great menace to the American trade with Japan in
petroleum products. Moreover, it is believed in oil circles
that the Japanese Government is unduly optimistic in its
scheme to produce 1,000,000 tons of gasoline and 1,000,000
tons of heavy oil from coal within seven years.
A1coho1.
As another step in the Government's plan (which will be
described later) for securing self-sufficiency in liquid
fuel, the Finance Ministry has announced that it will

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
introduce a bill in the coming session of the Diet for
the formation of an alcohol manufacture and sales mono-
poly. The project will be developed under a seven-year
plan and the total capital outlay is expected to amount
to Yen 490,000,000. The Government will set up seven
fuel alcohol manufacturing plants during the first year,
to produce about 23,000 tons of alcohol. The number of
plants will be increased gradually through the seven-year
period, reaching 80 in the last year, with an estimated
production of 267,000 tons of fuel alcohol. From the
fiscal year 1938-39 the Government plans to compel all
users of gasoline to mix a certain percentage of fuel al-
cohol with the gasoline. Efforts will be made to lower
the cost of fuel alcohol, so that the mixture can be sold
at about 55 sen (15.6 cents) per gallon. The Government
will monopolize manufacture and sales of straight alcohol,
and will monopolize sales of "shochu" (a sort of Japanese
brandy), although existing manufacturers of "shochu" will
be permitted to continue operations under license. Profits
from the monopoly are expected to amount to Yen 31,000,000
per annum after the first year. This revenue will be used
to cover probable losses on the manufacture of fuel alcohol.
This scheme, like that for the Government control of
coal liquefaction, presupposes the ability of the Government
to obtain large sums for capital expenditure - a doubtful
factor in the situation.
National Fuel Policy.
In August last it was reported that the National Fuel
Commission (composed of officials of six Ministries
interested

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
interested in the problem) had adopted a general plan
for the realization of a basic national fuel policy, the
plan having received the approval of the Cabinet. Funda-
mentalsof the plan were reported to be as follows:
1. Companies engaged in the liquefaction of coal or
the conversion into gasoline of tar obtained from the low-
temperature distillation of coal to be exempted from in-
come, business profits ana business taxes and to receive
subsidies.
2. A fuel alcohol monopoly system to be established,
in order to supply uel alcohol at low prices.
3. A law to be promulgated compelling users of gaso-
line to mix fuel alcohol with gasoline, in the proportion
of not over 20 per cent of alcohol.
4. The Government to establish a model plant for the
liquefaction of coal at a cost of Yen 10,000,000, using
the processes evolved by the Fuel Research Institute of
the Mi istry of Comnerce and Industry.
5. The Government to amalgamate and unify the existing
laboratories and institutes for research into the problem
of the liquefaction of coal.
6. The Government to raise the import duty on gasoline
and adopt a gasoline consumption tax, to assist the establish-
ment of industries for the manufacture of oil substitutes.
7. The Government to set up a special bureau for all
administrative work in regard to fuel.
The recent enthusiaam for the establishment of plants
for the liquefaction of coal appears to have been caused
by the first item of this plan, while the proposed bill
for the creation of an alcohol monopoly undoubtedly arises
from

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
from the second and third items of the plan.
The Japanese Government is certainly proceeding
steadily with its plans to acquire independent domestic
sources of liquid fuel, in order to be self-sufficient in
this regard in time of war. Progress will necessarily be
slow and expensive, but Japenese success in developing
other key industries under adverse conditions inclines the
Embassy to believe that eventually a certain degree of in-
dependence from foreign supplies of liquid fuel will be
attained.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.91)
118
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
N
No action on this
letegram scems to be
called for.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
119
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This telegram must be FROM
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
Dated January 8, 1937
before being communicated
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 9:10 a.m
yl
Secretary of State
FAR LASTERN AFFAIHS
Washington
JAN 1937
3, January 8, 7 p.m.
1:01
Department of State
1946
Embassy's 268, December 24
6 p.m.
forKorea
6
One. The Standard and Shell gasoline quotas for
.6363/304
the first half of 1937 have been reduced by 37.7% from me
half of the 1936 quotas and their quotas for other
petroleun products have been reduced to a less degree.
The foreign oil companies assume that this step has been
taken to make room for the products of the newly estab-
lished Chos en oil company al though it is expected that
some othrr reason will be advanced for this cut in their
FILED
trade. Mi definite assurances have ever been given in
regard to tneir trade in Korea but in this connection
3
see item two of the tive oint memorandum of April,
179
1935 (Embassy's despatc. o. 1253, April 19, 1935)
Two. The British Ambaisuuci nas telegraphed the
above facts to his Foreign Office witn the expectation
that the Foreign Office will bring them to the attention
of the Japanese Ambassador in London.
F/FG
Three. I shall send Dickover to the Chief of the
Bureau

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
120
U
-2- #3, Jan. 8, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office
tomorrow, not (repeat not) to make formal representations
but simply to refer orally and informally to our repre-
sentations of December 24; to bring to his attention
the facts of the Korean quota reduction; and to point
out that such developments are extremely discouraging
to the foreign oil companies. Sir George Sansom, the
Commercial Counsellor of the British Embassy, will take
the same step on behalf of the British interests at
approximately the same time.
GREW
WJC

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
121
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before beingtommunicated
FROMDated January 11, 1937
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 6:55 a.m.
-Jile
Secretary of State
TAL LASTEHN AFFAIRS
Vashington
A
4, January 11, 1 p.m.
Drpartment of State
894.6363
Embassy's 3, January 8, 7 p.m.
34
894.6363/305
One. In Dickover's talk on Saturday morning with
Matsushima, Chief of the Comnercial ureau of the Foreign
Office, the latter agreed with apparent sincerity that
it was out of the questicn for the foreign oil companies
either to invest further money in Japan or to guarantee an
adequate return to 1itsui when their future was so uncertain
as was indicated by the latest developments in the Japan
and Korea quotas. He said that the Minister for Foreign
Affairs had asked him to take up with the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry the whole problem of the foreign oil
interests in Japan and that Arita was pressing him almost
daily to persuade that Ministry to seek an early adjustment
of the situation by meeting in some degree the reasonable
requirements of the foreign oil companies. The impression
received by Dicltover is that our representations of December
24 have fallen on good ground, at luast so far as the
Foreign Office is concerned, and that Arita is genuinely
F/FG
disturbed at the situation of the oil companies.
Two.
1

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.96)
122
U -2- #4, Jan. 11, 1 p.m. from Tokyo
Two. Sansom in his talk with Mataushima also received
the distinct 1mpression that the Foreign Office is sympa-
thetic to the plight of the oil companies.
GRFW
KLP

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 22, 1937.
Reference Tokyo's despatch No. 2l94 of
December 28, 1936, in further regard to the
oil situation in Japan.
This despatch outlines in considerable
detail developments which, as you will recall
from Tokyo's telegram No. 6 of January 15,
6 p. m., culminated in the receipt from the
Japanese Government of a written confirmation
of the oral assurances previously given to
the American and British oil interests in
Japan. This is an interesting despatch but
in view of subsequent developments a reading
of it by you is not, in my opinion, necessary
No action is required other than the
sending to London of a copy of Tokyo's
despatch of December 28 to which I suggest
there be attached a copy of Tokyo's telegram
of January 15 which
it apparently exists at present.
RCM/REK

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AN 1 5 1937
THECFOREIGN SERVICE
ARTOFH
Department of State
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
cory i5 Ludon
1937 JAN 14 PM 2 55
AMERICAN EMBASSY
844.6363
COMMUN CATIONS
Tokyo, December 28, 1936.
AND RECORDS
28 1937
No. 2194.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
Jaduary
894.6363/306
CONFIDENTIAL.
The Honorable
ARY
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's des-
294
patah No. 2076, dated October 14, 1936, and to previous
M
porrespondence on the subject of the difficulties being
experienced under the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law
by the American and other foreign oil interests, and
to report the following developments in the situation:
Assurances

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Assuranoes.
As was reported in despatch No. 2076 the local rep-
resentatives of the Standard and Shell interests on Ootober 9,
l936, addressed a letter to the Minister for Comnerce and
Industry, requesting confirmation of the assurances given
orally by Mr. S. Yoshino, Vice Minister for Commerce and
Industry. (Mr. Yoshino in the meantime had resigned to
accept another post.) The officials of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry refused to accept the letter, in-
sisting that the assurances requested were too detailed
and specific; that they could give no assurances in re-
gard to the companies' trade in Chosen and Taiwan, as those
colonies were administered by a different Department of
the Government; and that they could not give & definite
assurance in regard to the allocation of any decrease in
consumption, as that point had not been discussed at the
conferences which resulted in the formulation of the five-
point memorandum of April 13, 1935. Lengthy discussions
then ensued between the local representatives of the for-
eign oil interests and the officials of the Ministry of
Commeroe and Industry, as a result of which it was finally
agreed, in regard to the first objeotion, that the foreign
oil companies should submit a letter asking only for ab-
stract assurances, this letter to be confirmed in writing
by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and that the
companies should incorporate their understanding of the
detailed administration of the assurances in a later
letter, which would not be confirmed by the Ministry of
Commeroe and Industry. Much the same procedure was to
be followed in regard to the assurances conoerning the
companies'

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
companies' trade in Chosen and Taiwan; a letter was to
be addressed to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
requesting the good offices of that Ministry in obtaining
assurances concerning Chosen and Taiwan similar to those
given for Jepan Proper. The point in regard to the allo-
cation of any possible future decrease in consumption was
more difficult of settlement but a compromise was finally
reached, the foreign oil companies agreeing to accept the
wording "consideration will be given so that the decrease
is apportioned fairly in the light of actual conditions at
the time".
The difficulties having been ironed out, on Novem-
ber ll the local representatives of the Standard and
Shell interests submitted the revised version of their
original letter in regard to assurances and a supple-
mentary letter requesting the good offices of the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry in regard to their trade in Chosen
and Taiwan, dating both letters October 9, l936, the date
of the original letter. Copies of the English versions
1/2
of these letters are enclosed. It will be observed that
the letters are most courteously and respectfully worded
and contain a simple request that confirmation be given
of the four assurances, which briefly are as follows:
1. The foreign oil companies will be granted
their l935 allocation as a minimum and the
natural increase will be allocated fairly.
Should there be a decrease in consumption,
such decrease will be apportioned fairly in
the light of actual conditions at the time.
2. Market prices will be based on costs and con-
sidered fairly in order that the foreign oil
companies may sell at remunerative prices.
3.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
3. The foreign oil companies will be accorded
the same treatment as other petroleum in-
dustrialists in Japan.
4.
The present rates and extent of compensation
for stock-holding will not be altered unfavor-
ably to stockholders.
In reply to this letter the local representatives of
the Standard and Shell interests received letters dated
November 21, 1936, signed by the direotor of the Mining
Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. An
English translation of the letter received by the local
3/
representative of the Standard interests is enclosed here-
with. The Japanese text of the letter is couched in dic-
tatorial and almost offensive language, it having been
described by a student of Japanese as "the language a
Japanese policeman would use in speaking to an offender".
The letter scolds the foreign oil interests for their de-
lay in performing their stock-holding duty and curtly
orders them to speed up operations for stock-holding. In
regard to the assurances the letter simply states "we
will consider them carefully in our future enforcement
of the Petroleum Industry Law".
The representatives of the oil companies, immediate-
ly upon receipt of this letter, conferred with their
respective Embassies, which agreed that the confirmation
given was inacceptable as a basis for future trading
in Japan. At the advice of the Embassies, the local
representatives of the oil companies promptly took the
matter to Mr. Yoshino, the former Vice Minister for Com-
meree and Industry, wno had given the assurances orally,
and

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
and had stated that they would be confirmed in writing.
Mr. Yoshino readily agreed to endeavor to obtain suoh
assurances as the companies would consider satisfactory.
It is known that he discussed the matter with officials of
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry but his efforts did
not avail to alter the stand taken by that Ministry. The
difficulties apparently arise largely from the fact that
there have been several changes in the personnel of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry within the past two
months and that some of the new officials, especially Mr.
Sakai, the Chief of the Fuel Section of the Bureau of
Mining Industry, are not well disposed toward foreign
business interests.
While these discussions and exchange of letters
were proceeding, certain events transpired which caused
the local representatives of the foreign oil companies
to doubt the substantiality, under the present adminis-
tration of the Petroleum Industry Law, of the oral as-
surances given in good faith by Mr. Yoshino, then Vice
Minister for Commerce and Industry. The first circum-
stance concerned the kerosene quotas for the latter part
of 1936 (erroneously given as 1937 in the Embassy's tele-
295
gram No. 259, December 14, 1 p.m.). When the kerosene
quotas were first allotted for the year the Japanese
authorities estimated that there would be a considerable
decrease in consumption and consequently the foreign oil
companies' quotas were reduced below their l935 quotas by
13,180 kilolitres, or 8,854 kilolitres less than the
actual trade done by the two companies in l935. Later,
the

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
the authorities found that their estimates had been
too low and that instead of a decrease there would be
an increase in consumption of kerosene. They therefore
decided to make a further allotment of 10,700 kilolitres,
but this allotment was given entirely to the Japanese
refiners.
 As a result, the Japanese refiners have
quotas of 3,200 kilolitres in excess of thcir 1935 quotas
while the foreign companies have quotas of 13,180 kilo-
litres below their 1935 quotas. As can be seen, this is
in direct contradiction of the first assurance quoted
above, both as regards the guaranteed minimum gallonage
and the allocation of the naturel increase.
The second circumstance concerns the proposed re-
vision of the import tariff on petroleum and petroleum
products which, according to the newspapers, was approved
by the Tariff Investigation Commission on December 22.
The revised tariff increases the duty on gasoline by
approximately five sen per gallon and elso increases
the duty on the gasoline content of crude oil imported
for refining purposes by about the same amount. Os-
tensibly, therefore, the revised tariff should give no
advantage to the refiners over the importers of gaso-
line. In actual praotice, however, there is a certain
amount of disorimination due to the fact that the duties
are also increased on certain by-products of the refining
processes, including kerosene, neutral oil, Diesel oil,
fuel oil, lubricating oil, and asphalt, imported in their
pure state. An equivalent increase was not made in the
content of these by-products in the orude oil imported
for refining purposes. The domestic refiners, therefore,
w111

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
will have an advantage equivalent to the increased duty
on these by-products. Under the present tariff the re-
finers have an advantage over the importers of approximate-
ly 3.61 per 100 gallons of crude oil refined, while un-
der the proposed tariff they will have an advantage of
¥5.16 per l00 gallons (these calculations are based on
Kettleman crude oil, the principal oil used for refining
purposes in Japan.) The giving of this increased ad-
vantage to the refiners is in contradiction of assur-
ance No. 3 and also in contradiction of an oral assur-
ance given by the former Vice Minister for Commerce and
Industry on September 19, l936, to the effect that the
foreign oil companies would not be discriminated against
in any future increase in the tariff rates on petroleum
and petroleum products.
Moreover, on December 17, 1936, the ASAHI SHIMBUN
reported that the Japanese oil refining companies are
conducting an agitation against the granting of further
increases in sales quotas by the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry to the foreign oil companies. This agi-
tation is based on the allegation that the prinoipal
purpose of the petroleum industry law is to protect
the Japanese oil industry and that therefore the sales
quotas granted to the foreign companies should not be
inoreased, and on the ground that the foreign oil compan-
ies have as yet failed to fulfill their duty in regard
to oil storage, while the Japanese refiners have fulfilled
their obligations in this regard. The newspaper also
stated that the question may become an issue in the
forthcoming session of the Diet.
Faoed

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Faced with this apparent disorimination and oppo-
sition, the Standard and Shell interests decided to
request their respective Embassies to take the matter
up with the Japanese Government through diplomatic
ohannels.
Representations.
As a result of conferences between the local
representatives of the Standerd and Shell interests
and the American and British Embassies, it was de-
cided on December 14 to ask the Department of State
and the British Foreign Office for instructions in
regard to representations. The British Ambassador
felt very strongly that the time had come for strong
representations and even suggested going to the length
of accusing the Japanese Government of bad faith. He
proposed that we cable to Washington and London res-
pectively to recommend that our officials at home call
in the Japanese Ambassadors in Washington and London to
express the anxiety of our Governments in regard to the
future in Japan of our respective oil interests; to ask
for a categorical statement of the intentions of the
Japanese Government, as the suspicion cannot be avoided
that it is the wish of the Japanese Government to force
the foreign oil interests out of Japan; and to submit
a request that if the Japanese Government does not wish
to force the foreign oil interests out of Japan the
written assurances required by the oil interests in
order to assure them of a reasonable volume of trade
and

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
and a reasonable profit be given them by the Japanese
Government.
This Embassy concurred in the British Ambassador's
judgment to the extent that it believed that the time
had come for more effective representations than had
been made in the past. The Embassy, however, did not
believe in preferring charges of bad faith as such
representations might place the Japanese Government in
a position where it could grant no concessions without
being accused by the Japanese public of submitting to
foreign pressure, to the detriment of the interests of
the foreign oil companies. I believed, however, that
we should present the situation to the Japanese Govern-
ment with marked emphasis in order to avoid the prob-
ability that our representations would, as formerly, be
treated in a routine way and merely passed on to the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry for such comment as
might be made by the junior official handling oil matters
in that Ministry. Moreover, as the Minister for Foreign
Affairs was preoccupied with the troublous domestic and
foreign political complications, it seemed to us that
the emphasis which we felt should be placed on our rep-
resentations could better be secured by presenting the
case to the Japanese Ambassadors at Washington and London
by the Department of State and the British Foreign Of-
fice respectively.
296
Upon receipt of the Department's telegram No. 160,
December 17, 2 p.m., I immediataly discussed the Depart-
ment's

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
ment's suggested procedure with Sir Robert Clive and
asked him to seek from his Government authorization to
make the representations in Tokyo desired by the Depart-
ment. The Ambassador agreed to recommend to his Govern-
ment that a further diplomatic approach be made in Tokyo
substantially identical in character and approximately
simultaneous with that to be made by us. At the same
time, however, he continued of the opinion that our rep-
resentations in Tokyo should be supported by representa-
tions to the Japanese Ambassadors in Washington and London.
In the meantime the foreign oil companies approached
their respective embassies with a request that action on
the representations be expedited, as they feared that the
foreign oil companies would be penalized by having their
l937 sales quotas reduoed because they had not fulfilled
their oil storage obligation and they therefore desired
that diplomatic steps be taken before Christmas to fore-
stall such penalties. They also held the hope that dip-
lomatio representations might forestall the anticipated
approval by the Tariff Investigation Commission of the
proposed revision of the petroleum import tariff men-
tioned above. This explains the element of haste in
the matter.
On December 23 the British Ambassador received his
instructions to concert with me and to proceed to joint
representations to the Japanese Government at the earliest
possible moment. The telegram also stated that Mr. Eden,
the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, agreed
with the views of the Department of State in regard to
the representations. The telegram added that Mr. Eden
had

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
had taken the opportunity of an interview with the
Japanese Ambassador at London to draw his attention
to the difficult position in which the British oil in-
terests find themselves as a result of the failure on
the part of the Japanese Government to fulfill its
promises in regard to the future trading position in
Japan of the foreign oil companies.
The Department's instructions arrived on Decem-
ber 24. Members of the staffs of the American and
British Embassies immediately conferred and agreed
upon substantially identical (not joint) representa-
tions containing the points brought out in the Depart-
1296
ment's telegram No. 160,
that is, to express the anxiety
of our Governments in regard to the future in Japan of
our respective oil interests; to request a clear indi-
cation from the Japanese Government that it is not the
desire of that Government to force our respective oil
interests out of Japan; and to make an express request
that the Japanese Government give in writing the assur-
anoes which the oil interests seek in order to continue
operations in Japan.
The British Embassy embodied its representations in
the form of a Note Verbale, including therein a brief
history of the situation as well as a reference to the
charges of discrimination preferred by the oil interests
against the Japanese Government and terminating the note
with an expression of anriety and requests for assurances
for the future. This Embassy decided to communicate
orally to the Minister for Foreign Affairs the history
of

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
of the case and to embody in an Aide Memoire the
specific desiderata. In my interview with the Min-
ister at four o'clock that afternoon, very shortly
after the Department's telegram had been decoded and
with little time to prepare the final document, I
sketched to him orally the background of the position
in which the Standard Oil interests find themselves
in Japan, presenting the case as a purely business prob-
lem. I then read to him and left with him our Aide
41
Memoire (copy enclosed) containing the points outlined
270
in the Department's telegram No. 160.
In dealing with this situation, the Department's
wish to avoid at this juncture what might be consid-
ered as "strong representations" was carefully kept
in mind. My talk with the Minister for Foreign Affairs
was conducted in all friendliness and no tone or ex-
pression of recrimination entered into my presentation.
The difficulties encountered by our oil interests were
explained simply as a business problem and the reason-
ableness of their requests was brought out as a matter
of simple logic. The fact that the friendly and cordial
attitude and manner of Mr. Arita throughout the inter-
view underwent no change after the oral representations
and the reading of our Aide Memoire, which was enunciated
slowly and clearly so that he could not fail to grasp
its tone and purport, indicated that he took no exception
to either the one or the other. He merely observed
that he himself was not familiar with the matter, which
he thought had been settled some time ago, and that he
woula

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
would study it and would give the Embassy a reply as
soon as possible.
In our Aide Memoire the Department's points were
clearly presented. It would have been idle and futile
to have rendered them less concise by endeavoring to
soften the phraseology of the document which was in
effect merely a written enumeration and confirmation of
the desiderata orally presented in the interview.
My British colleague made his representations on
the same day shortly before my own and he left with
the Minister his Note Verbale of which a copy of en-
5/
olosed. It will be observed that the points brought
out in the concluding paragraph of his note are sub-
stantially identical with those expressed in our own
Aide Memoire.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
863.
JCGERD:C
nclosures:
1/2 Translation of letters dated October 9,
1936, submitted to the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry;
3/ Translation of letter received by Standard Oil
interests from Ministry of Commerce and
Industry;
4/ Copy of Embassy's Aide Memoire;
5/ Copy of British Embassy's Note Verbale.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No.2194 of 1lec 28, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y.
English version of Japanese original.
His Excellency Ogawa Gotaro,
9th October, 1936.
Minister of Commerce & Industry
TOKYO.
No: M.1.
Your Excellency:
With reference to our letter addressed to the Mining
Bureau of Your Excellency's Department on 26th June, we
beg to confirm that our Companies were able on 22nd Septem-
ber to come to an agreement with Messrs. The Mitsui Bussan
Kaisha on the basic points of a special arrangement whereby
the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha will co-operate with us for the
performance of the stock-holding obligations of the Fetro-
leum Industry Law. Steps to this end were begun immediately
and are being pursued actively and, in assuring Your Excellency
that it will be achieved as soon as possible, we would res-
pectfully request Your Excellency to accept our apologies
and to favour us with special consideration in regard to this
delay in the fulfillment of the obligation.
At the same time we wish to express to Your Excellency
our appreciation and thanks for the consideration which has
already been given to our Companies, and also respectfully
request Your Excellency to confirm our understanding that
we may have the following assurances in regard to our busi-
ness during such time as the petroleum industry is under
legislative control:-
1. So long as there is no decrease in consumption,
sales quotas will be allocated as follows, subject
to

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
to preference being iven to increase in indigenous
production (that is, domestic production of petroleum
and manufacture of petroleum substitutes):-
(a) Cur Companies will be granted as a minimum their
1935 gallonage
(b) Any natural increase will be allocated fairly,
due consideration bein tiven tc traders' established
position and acquired interests, and until the idle
refining capacity as at the time of the enforcement
of the Fetroleum Industr: Law is taken up the al-
location to Importers of the said increase will be
not less favorable than the (said) allocation in
1935.
In the event of the anount of trade available for allo-
cation being reduced by reason of a decrease in consump-
tion or increase in indigenous production, consideration
will be given so that the decrease is apportioned fairly
in the light of actual conditions at the time.
II.
That market prices will be based upon costs and considered
fairly by the Government so that our Companies can sell
at remunerative prices.
III.
That our Companies will be accorded the same treatment
as other petroleum industrialists in Japan.
IV.
That the present rates and extent of compensation for
the cost of stock-holding will not be altered unfavorably
to stockholders.
We are, with all respect,
Your Excellency's most obedient servants,
FOR THE RISING SUN PETROLEUM CO: LTD:
Initialled: T.G.E.
MANAGING DIRECTOR

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
FOR STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COLPANY
Initialled: C.E.M.
GENERAL MANAGER.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
NO.2194
ofM 2819%from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y.
English version of Japanese original.
9th Cctober, 1936.
His Excellency Ogawa Gotaro,
Minister of Commerce & Industry,
TOKYO.
No:M.2.
Your Excellency:
With reference to the letter Mo:M.l, of today's date
which we are submitting to Your Excellency in respect of
our usiness in Japan, we bee to expre:s our hope and anti-
cipation that, through the good offices of Your Excellency's
Department, similar assurances will be given in regard to
Chosen and Taiwan, together with especially favorable con-
sideration in the light of our established trading position
in Chosen and the different circumstances obtaining in Tai-
wan in respect of refining facilities.
We are, with all respect,
Your Excellency's most obedient servants,
FOR THE RISING SUN PETROLEUM CO:LTD:
Initialled:
T.G.E.
Managing Director
FOR THE STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
Initialled:
C.E.M.
General Manager.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to dospatch
NO.2194
of hlee 2g/93grom the
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY.
11 Ko No. 1773.
November 21st, 1936.
Haruhiko Ogai, Director of the Mine
Bureau of the Commerce
and Industry Ministry.
Mr. C.E. Moyer, Representative of
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
You have reported on Oot. 9th jointly signed with T.
G. Ely, Representative Director of Rising Sun Sekiyu Kabu-
shiki Kaisha regarding the performance of petroleum stock-
holding duty that you require a considerable time more for
the perfect performance of your six months' supply holding
as a matter of fact, but as your delay in the performance
of the said duty is a violation of the Petroleum Industry
Law, whioh can not be tolorated, we would like you to
speed up your preparations for the stock-holding and
perfectly perform the holding of six months' supply as soon
as possible. We also request you to let us know promptly
when you expect to complete the stock-holding and what pre-
parations and plan you are making for the stock-holding.
We request you the above by order.
In addition to the above, as for the four item desires
you expressed in your letter, we will consider them care-
fully in our future enforcement of the Petroleum Industry
Law as well as the Regulations for the Grant of Petroleum
Stock-Holding Aids.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.4 to despatch
NO.2194 01 x0er .78, 14 36
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
AIDE MEMOIRE
The American Government feels impelled to express
to the Japanese Government its serious anxiety in regard
to the future of the American oil interests in Japan, as
represented by the Standard Vacuum Oil Company, and to ask
for a clear indication from the Japanese Goverment of its
intentions in regard to those interests. In view of the
present procedure of the Japanese Government in administer-
ing its petroleum policy, which hes led to doubts as to
those intentions, the American Goverrment would welcome a
substantial indication that it is not the intention or
desire of the Japanese Government to drive the American
oil interests out of Japan. The American Government elso
requests that the American oil interests be given such
written assurances in regard to their future trading
position in Japan as they may seek in order to continue
their business in this country upon e reasonably secure
and profitable basis.
December 24, 1936.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch No
of December 28 , 1936, from the Bmbassy
at Tokyo.
Note Verbale.
His Britannic Majesty's Ambassador presents
his compliments to His Imperial Japanese Majesty's
Minister for Foreign Affairs and under instructions
from his Government has the honour to request His
Excellency's good offices in respect of certain
difficulties which have lately arisen out of the
application of the Petroleum Industry Law to the
undertakings of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company in
Japan.
This Company in 1934 appealed to the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry for the aileviation of certain
hardships imposed upon them by the Law, and in January
1935 despatched a Director to Japan to put their case
before the competent authorities.
As the result of protracted discussions, an
understanding was reached as to certain points upon
which they desired to be assured before making further
capital investment in Japan. This understanding was
recorded in a document which, though it may not have
constituted a formal undertaking by the Japanese
Government, was stated by the Director of the Commercial
Bureau in a conversation with the Commercial Counsellor
of this Embassy on April 25th, 1935, of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs to represent substantially the intentions
of the competent authorities.
In

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
In subsequent discussions with the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, the Company earnestly
endeavoured to devise a scheme which, while relieving
them of certain direct capital investment that they
were not in a position to undertake, enabled them to
fulfil their obligations as to stockholding under the
Petroleum Law. Such a soheme was at length completed,
and the Company were ready to put it into operation as
soon as they should be satisfied that their trading
prospects in Japan were of a nature to justify the
increased expenditure which it involved. They had
already received from the Vice-Minister of Commerce
oral assurances on five cardinal points in this connec-
tion, and it only remained ror them to obtain some
agreed documentary record of those points, in order to
guard against future misunderstanding which might arise
whether from changes of personnel or from other causes.
At an interview on September 19th, 1936, the Vice-
Minister expressed his satisfaction at the outcome of
the discussions and his readiness to confirm the above-
mentioned assurances in riting. The Company thereupon
addressed to the Minister of Commerce and Industry a
letter reporting that they had made a special arrangement
for the performance of their obligations under the
Petroleum Industry Law, and begging the Minister to
confirm their understanding of their future trading
position in Japan.
To

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
To this request they received a reply in
which they were strongly reprimanded for delay in
fulfilling their obligations and, as to the points
on which they desired assurance, were merely told
by way of postscript that these would be taken into
consideration. In other words, after negotiations
lasting over two years, the Company found themselves
in greater doubt than before, seeing that they were
denied the very reasonable degree of assuranco which
they had conridently anticipated in view of oral
statements re eatedly made to them in the course of
their discussions with officials of the Ministry of
Comerce.
Their doubts have been further increased
by the announcement of new trading quotas (for
kerosene) and new import tariff rates which, they
state, are incompatible ith those assurances.
In view of the circumstances recited above,
His Majesty's Government cannot but feel grave anxiety
as to the future of British oil interests in Japan and
are constrained to ask the Japanese Government for a
clear indication of their intentions in regard to
those interests. It is difficult for His Majesty's
Government to avoid the suspicion that the Ja anese
Government's petroleum policy, as at present adminis-
tered, involves discrimination against British oil
interests and will result in driving them out of Japan.
H1s

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
His Majesty's Government would be gratified
to learn that this is not the desire or the intention
of the Japanese Government; and, if it is not their
intention, His Majesty's Government request that the
British oil interests may be given suchh written
assurances in re~ard to their future trading osition
as they may reasonably require, in order to continue
their operations in Japan upon a secure and profitable
basis.
December 24th, 1936.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 16, 1937.
Reference Tokyo's telegram No. 6 of
January 15, 6 p. m., in regard to the oil
situation in Japan,--
For sometime past it has been my
understanding that, except for the ironing
out of minor details, all that was necessary
to clear the way for a mutually satisfactory
settlement of the difficulties encountered in
Japan by the foreign oil interests was the
receipt from the Japanese Government of a
written confirmation of oral assurances
previously given.
Tokyo's telegram under reference would
seem to indicate that satisfactory confirma-
tion has been iven and it is hoped that
this long-drawn-out controversy will soon
be removed from the realm of diplomatic
negotiation.
No action required.
RCM/REK

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
124
(acm)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
A portion of this telegram
Tokyo
must be closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 15,1937
to anyone. (B)
FROM
Rec'd 9:40 a.m.
Thie telegram mar
Secretary of State
Divinafar
2.2
read (in parasdunee forin)
to  Parker oy phome
FAR LASE AFFAIKS
Washington
nes
Department of State
6, January 15, 6 p.m
894.6363/307
894.6363
One. Matsushima the chief of the Commercial Bureau
of the Foreign Office today handed Dickover the following
note vorbale in reply to our representations of December
24. The note was delivered in English as well as Japanese
(a most unusual proceeding with the Foreign Office) in
order as Matsushima said to avoid any misunderstanding.
"Translation. Note verbale.
The Department of Foreign  ffairs having consulted
the compe tent department on the subject of the aide memoire
of the United States Embassy dated December 24, 1936 have
the honor to state in reply as follows:
The Japanese Government have no intention to make
any discrimination between business operations of the
Standard Vacuum Oil Company which represents the America
FILED
G
oil interests in Japan and those of any other oil industnial.
1
1sts. Nor have they any thought whatever of driving out
39
of Japan the American oil interests represented by that
company. To be more precise the phrase "they will be
F/G
taken

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
125
U -2- #6, Jan. 15, 6 pim. from Tokyo
taken into full consideration" in the reply addressed by
the Director of the Mines Bureau in the Department of
Commerce and Indus try to the General Manager of the Standard
Vacuum Oil Company under date of October 21, 1936 did not
mean that consideration would be given to the question
as to whether or not the four points enumerated in the
letter addressed by the General Manager of the said company
to the Minister for Commerce and Industry on October 9,
1936, would be carried into effect. On the contrary the
reference was intended to be a confirmation in writing of
the four points. The company therefore need
entertain
no misgiving and it is hoped that this information will
be conveyed to it so that there shall be no mi sunderstand-
ings in this connection.
The Japanese Government hereby declare that so long
as the above mentioned company faithfully observes the
Japanese laws and regulations concerned they will always
be prepared to give favorable consideration to its busine.is
operations. At the same time they desire to point out that
the company should speedily fulfill the obligations re-
quired by the Japanese laws and regul ations".
Two. The note verbale was accompanied by a paper
marked "unofficial" replying to my oral representations
of December 24 and stating that.
(A) In regard to the kerosene quotas for the latter
part of 1936 increases were given to the Japanese companies
and

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
126
U -3- #6, Jan. 15, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
and not to the foreign companies because of an increase
in the domestic production of oil. It is therefore an
exceptional matter and was treated in accordance with the
first of the four points upon which the foreign oil com-
paries request assurances.
(B) The proposed tariff revision admits of no reason-
able objection as it is applicable without distinction to
any person or concern.(END GRAY)
Three. A note verbale substantially identical with
the foregoing was handed to Sansom today. We concur with
the British Embassy that this result of our representatives
is gratifying as definitely confirming the assurances
previously given orally to the companies.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
(sem)
7
copy 5 Ludon
January 11, 1937.
Jan. 29
DIVISION Hr. Philo W. Parker,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COMMUNIr ITIONStandard-Vacuum O1l Company.
11137
894.6363
AND
Mr. Dooman.
Dopartment
AuD
Subject:
Oil situation in Japan.
894.636
Mr. Parker called on the long distance telephone from
New York and expressed desire to speak with Mr. Mackay.
As a telegram on the Japanese oil situation had been re-
3/308
ceived from the Embassy at Tokyo during Mr. Mackay's
absence, Mr. Dooman undertook to speak with Mr. Parker.
Mr. Parker stated that he had just received a letter
dated December 29 from an official of the Shell interests
in which it was stated that the British Foreign Secretary
had expressed concern to the Japanese Ambassador at
London with regard to the failure of the Japanese Govern-
ment to fulfil certain promises given to the oil companies,
and that the Japanese Ambassador had thereupon asked the
Sholl interests to submit to him a memorandum setting
forth the relevant facts. Mr. Parker said that he was
AUG 1 1 1939
FILED
anxious that Mr. Hornbeck should know that the British
Foreign Secretary had talked to the Japanese Ambassador.
Mr. Dooman said that the Department had received
information from the Embassy at Tokyo that the British
F
1/1
Foreign Secretary had taken advantage of a meoting with
the

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
the Japanese Ambassador to bring up the oil situation in
Japan, and Mr. Dooman read to Mr. Parker paragraph three
of Tokyo's telegram No. 266 of December 23, 7 p.m.
Mr. Parker then said that he did not wish the Depart-
ment to understand that he was urging the Department to take
up this matter with the Japanese Ambassador in Washington.
Mr. Dooman then indicated to Mr. Parker the substance
of Tokyo's telegram No. 4 of January 11, 1 p.m., mentioning
especially the statement that the First Secretary of the
Embassy and the Commercial Counselor of the British Embassy,
who had both called recently at the Foreign Office, had
received the impression that, as the result of representa-
tions made last month by the British and American
Ambassadors, the Foreign Office is genuinely disturbed
over the situation.
Mr. Parker expressed gratification over this develop-
ment and the hope that, by persistent efforts along the
lines thus far pursued, satisfactory assurances would be
received from the Japanese Government. Mr. Dooman concurred.
The conversation there ended.
ew
FD/DLY/m.W.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
Jaduary 26 1937
0.1563
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Lomden.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
297
instruetion No. 1532 of Deéember 21, 1956, and to previeus
894.6363/308
correspondense in regard to the oil situation in Japes and
in eonneetion therewith encloses, for the information of
the Ambassador, a copy, with enclosures, of despateh Wo.
2194 of Deeember 28, 1936, from the American Embassy at
Tokyo, a copy of a memorandum of a conversation which
took place on January 1l between Mr. P. . Parker of the
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company and an officer of the Depart-
ment, and a copy partially in paraphrase of telegram
No. 6 of January 15, 6 p. m., from the American Embassy
at Tokyo.
Enolosures:
From the American
Kmbassy, Tokyo,
despatch No. 2194
of December 28, 1936,
with enolosures;
Memorandum of conversation,
January 11, 1937;
From the American
Embassy, Tokyo,
telegram No. 6, January 15,
1937.
F/
G
894.8363/297
FE: RCM: REK
FE
1/22/37

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECKIVED
Tokyo
Dated Jammary 15, 19s?
Ree'd 9:40 a. m.
secretary of State
Washingtos.
6, Jammary 15, 6 p. m.
mbassy's 4, January 1l, 1 p. m.
One. Matsushime the chief of the Commercial Baream
of the Foreign Offiee today handed Dickover the following
mete verbale in reply to our representations of December
4. The note was delivered in English as well as Japanese
(a most umusual proceeding with the Foreign Office) in
order as Matsushima said to avoid any misunderstanding.
"Translation. Note verbale.
The Department of Foreign Affairs having consulted
the competent department on the subject of the aide memoire
of the United States Embassy dated December 24, 1936, have
the honor to state in reply as follows:
The Japanese Government have no intention to make
any disorimination between business operations of the
Standard Vacuum Oil Company which represents the American
oil interests in Japan and those of any other oil industrial-
ists. or have they any thought whatever of driving out
of Japan the Amerioan oil interests represented by that
company. To be more precise the phrase "they will be
taken into full consideration" in the reply addressed by
the Direotor of the Mines Bureau in the Department of
Commerce and Industry to the General Manager of the Standard
Vacuum Oi1 Company under date of October 21, 1936, did not
mean that consideration would be given to the question
as to whether or not the four points enumerated in the
letter addressed by the General anager of the said company
to the Winister for Commerce and Industry on October 9:
1936,

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
198e, would be earried into effest. On the eentrary the
referesse was intesded te be a eesfirmatien in writins of
the four points. The eompemy therefore need entertain
me misgiving and it is hoped that this information will
be comveyed to it so that there shall be no misunderstand-
ings in this connection.
The Japanese Government hereby deelare that so leng
as the above-mentioned company faithfully observes the
Japanese laws and regulations eoncerned they will always
be prepared to give favorable consideration to its business
operations. At the same time they desire to point out that
the company should speedily fulfill the obligations re-
quired by the Japanese laws and regulations".
Two. The note verbale was accompanied by a paper
marked "unofficial" replying to my oral representations
of December 24 and stating that:
(A) In regard to the kerosene quotas for the latter
part of l936 increases were given to the Japanese companies
and not to the foreign companies because of an inorease
in the domestio produotion of oil. It is therefore an
exceptional matter and was treated in aocordance with the
first of the four points upon whioh the foreign oil com-
panies request assurances.
(B) The proposed tarifr revision aamits of no reason-
able objeotion as it is applicable without distinction to
any person or concorn.
Three. There was handed to Sansom today a note verbale
whioh is substantially identical with the above. That this
result of our representations is gretifying, as definitely
confirming the oral assurances previously given to the oil
companies, is the opinion of the British Embassy and in this
opinion we conour.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MECE
ARDNENTONFOFTFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 19, 1937.
1957 JAN 22 PM 1 56
Note: Upon the receipt this morning
paraphrase-form) Tokyo's telegram No. 6 of
January 15, 6 p. m., and explained that,
acting on the assumption that his representa-
tives in Japan would, as in the past,
acquaint him with ali developments of
importance, the Department had refrained
from informing him of the contents of the
Embassy's telegram under reference.
Mr. Parker said that although he
understood the Department's position
perfectly he did not understand why he
had had no previous report from his
representative in Japan unless failure to
report was due to a desire to protect the
company's codes.
neu
RCM/REK

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.94)
26 BROADWAY
:ENEW YORK
ARIMENT OF STATL
P. W. PARKER
1937 AN 22 PM 1 56
January 18th, 1937.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNIITIONS
Reply dueptes
AND FDS
goto
gau.19'87
kews
AN LASTERN AFFAIRS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Department of State
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Weshington, D. C.
Janvary 21 1937
894.6363/309
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
We have today received a cable from
Yokohama advising that the Embassy at Tokyo has
telegraphed the State Department giving the reply
of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the recent
representations on the oil situation.
We very much hope that you can consist-
ently pass on to us the essential information con-
tained in the Embassy's message.
Very truly yours,
PN tark
894.6363
AUG 1 1 1939
FILED

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.92)
January1959
CONFIDENTIAL.
Doar Mr. Parker:
The reseipt is asknowledged of your letter of
Jammary 1s in whieh you express the hope that the Depart-
mest may be in pesition to acquaint you with the subatamee
of the reply made by the Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs to the resent representations of the Ameriean
894.6363/309
Babassy in regard te the oil situation in Japan.
The Mabassy's repert in regart to this matter, the
subetemse ef whieh was this meraing orally commmmieated
to yeu by Mr. Mackay, is embodied in a telegram ander date
Jammary 1s. This telegram contains a translation of the
mete verbale whieh, in English as well as in Japanese, was,
en the date indieated, handed to the First Seeretary of
she Ameriean Emabassy by the Chief of the Compereßal Buress
of the Sapesese Poreign Ofrice. A copy of the tremslatien,
as meseived by the Department, is atteched herete.
Fer yeur comfidential information, it may be stated
that she afere-mentioned note verbale was accompaniee by
M. P. W. Parker,
T T.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
a paper marked "umoffieial" replying to the oral repregsste-
tiens mate by the Ameriean Ambessader on December 2 mnd
stating that:
(A) In regard to the keroseme quotas fer
the latter part of l9ss inereases were givem to
the Japanese sompamies and mot so the foreign
cempanies besanse of an imerease in the domessie
prodmetiom of oil. It is therefore an exeeptiomal
matter and was treated in ascordanee with the
first of the four points upon whieh the foreigm
oil eompanies request assuranees.
(B) The proposed tariff revisiom admits of
no reasomable objestion as it is applieable without
distinetion to any person or concern.
The abassy's telegram of Jammary 15 further states
that a mote verbale substantially identical with that handed
to the First Seeretary of the American Embassy was on the
same day handed to the Commeroial Counselor of the British
mbassy.
As orally explained this morning by Mr. Maekay, the
information contained in the Embassy's telegram under refer-
ence was not relayed to you by the Department as it was our
assumption that your ropresentatives in Japan would, in
accordance with past procedure, acquaint you promptly with
all recent developments of importance.
JAN 21 1937.
We trust that the way is now clear for an early and
mutually satisfactory settlement of the difrioulties which
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company has encountered in conneotion
with the Japanese Petroloum Industry Law.
Sincerely yours,
muH
neel
Enoibsure:
Stanley X, Hornbeok,
chief.
FE: RCM:REK TFonslation.
Division of Far Kastern Affairs.

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
"The Department of Foreign Affairs having consulted
the eompetemt department on the subjest of the aide memeire
of the United States Embassy dated December 24, 1936, have
the homor to state in reply as follows:
"The Japamese Government have no intention to make any
diseriminatiom between business operations of the Standard
Vasuwm Oil Company which represents the American oil interests
in Japen and those of any other oil industrialists. Mor have
they any thought whatever of driving out of Japan the Amerieam
oil interests represented by that company. To be more preeise
the phrase 'they will be taken into full consideration' in the
reply addressed by the Direotor of the Mines Bureau in the
Department of Commerce and Industry to the General Manager
of the Standard Tacuum Oil Company under date of Ootober 21,
1936, did not mean that consideration would be given to the
question as to whether or not the four points enumerated in
the letter addressed by the General Manager of the said
company to the Minister for Commerce and Industry on Ootober 9,
1936, would be carried into effect. On the contrary the
reference was intended to be a confirmation in writing of
the four points. The conpany therefore need entertain no
misgiving and it is hoped that this information will be
conveyed to it so that there shall be no misunderstandings
in this connection.
"The

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.89)
emse lame nd reglatiene eeersed they ill iege
be prepared to give favoreble ceasideratien to its besimess
eperatioms. At the seme time they desire to point out that
the compaay should speedily fulfill the obligatioms required
by the Japamese laws and regulations.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 17, 1937
Tokyo's despatch No. 2233 of Janu-
ary 29, 1937, with regard to the o1l
situation in Japan:
The first five pages of the desnatch
are devoted to a discussion of the action
of the authorities in Morea in reducing
the sales quotas for the first ralf of
1937 for the foreign oil companies. This
is in fact a senarate question, as the
Jananese declined to cive any assurances
in that regard when the foreign comuanies
presented ther so-called five noint law.
At that time, the nosition of the Jana-
nese was equivocal, being expressed in
the phrase "Chosen rossibly better".
No doubt further renorts will be received
from the mbassy should there be any
significant developments.
The rest of the despatch is devoted
to an account of the varicus steps lead-
ing to the assurances by the Foreign
Office of the written assurances desired
by the foreign companies. Conies of these
assurances are attached to the despatch.
894.6363/310
EHD/DLY

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.92)
Rrrm 384
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2233.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, January 29, 1937.
894.6363
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
17
S,
11:
150
L11
RER
137 FEB 19
Cintorly ar Tmdom
neas
894.6363/310
11
april 9 1957
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 2194,
dated December 28, 1936, and to previous correspondence,
written and telegraphic, in regard to the difficultigs
FILED
G
being experienced in Japan by the American and othert
1
foreign oil interests under the Petroleum Industry
1939
Law, I have the honor to report the following develop-
ments.
Korean Quotas.
As was briefly explained to the Department in the
Embassy's telegram No. 3, January 8, 7 p.m., the sales
quotas
FEG

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
quotas granted to the Standard-Vaouum Oil Company for
Korea for the first half of l937 were reduced from one-
half of their l936 quotas by the following amounts:
First Half
One-half
Decrease by
Decrease by
1937
1936
Volume
Percentage
(Kilolitres)
(Kilolitres) (Kilolitres)
Gasoline
5611
9011
3400
37.7%
Kerosene
9709
10000
291)
10%
Light Power
789
789
011
Lubricating
011
630
700
70
10%
Fuel Oil
200
200
100%
The quotas of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company were cut to
an equal degree, but the quotas of the Chosen Oil Company
(which has refineries in Korea) were increased by an aver-
age of 69.5% for the same period. In conversations which
were held later between representatives of the foreign
oil companies and the officials in Korea, it developed that
the quotas were allocated as above because the officials
estimated that a coal liquefaction plant in Korea would
come into production in 1937 and would produce some 22,600
kilolitres of gasoline. Room had to be made for this pro-
duction, and consequently the quotas of all importing oil
companies were cut accordingly. At the same time, however.
the natural increase in consumption (which is estimated as
larger than the production of the coal liquefaction plant)
was allotted entirely to the Chosen Oil Company on the ground
that that firm is an enterprise confined to Korea and hence
unable to expand elsewhere. As a result of this process of
reasoning

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
reasoning the foreign firms had to bear the bulk of
the reduction in quotas caused by the necessity of making
room for the synthetic gasoline, while the Japanese refineries
in Korea received greatly increased quotas.
The local representatives of the American and British
oil interests thereupon suggested tc their respective
Embassies that these reductions in the Korean quotas might
well be used as illustrations to strengthen the formal
representations made by the American and British Ambassadors
on December 24, 1936, on the general subject of our re-
spective oil interests in Japan. On January 9, 1937,
accordingly, Mr. Dickover, First Secretary of the Embassy,
called on Mr. Matsushima, Chief of the Bureau of Com-
mercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, recalled to his
attention the representations made on December 24, re-
cited briefly the facts of the Korean situation, and
stated that these developments were most disheartening
to the American oil interests, who were finding it im-
possible either to invest sums of money in Japan or to
assure an adequate return to such Japanese capital as
they might utilize when their future was as uncertain as
was indicated by this latest occurrence. Mr. Matsushima
agreed heartily and proceeded to discuss the general
situation in which the foreign oil interests found them-
selves in Japan. A memorandum of the conversation is
1/
enclosed. Mr. Matsushima later stated to Mr. Dickover
that he was looking into the matter of the Korean quotas
(although this Embassy had made no direct representations on
that

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
that subjeot, treating the matter orally and informally
and simply as an illustration of the treatment to which
the foreign oil companies were subjected in the Japenese
Empire)but as yet he has not transmitted any information
on the subject to this or the British Embassy.
Sir George Sansom, the Commercial Counsellor of the
British Embassy, also approached Mr. Matsushima informally
on the matter of the Korean quotas at about the same time
as the approach made by Mr. Dickover.
Under date of January 14, 1937, the foreign oil
companies sent a formal protest to the Governor General
of Korea in regard to the cut in their quotas. It will
not be necessary further to burden the Department's files
with copies of this letter. At the same time the local
representatives of the oil interests suggested to their
respective Embassies that the Embassies file with Mr.
Matsushima of the Foreign Office copies of this protest.
The British Ambassador agreed with me, however, that it
might be inadvisable for the Embassies further to press
the Foreign Office and the local representatives were
therefore advised to take up the matter with Mr. Matsu-
shima directly. This they did on January 20, at which
time Mr. Matsushima discussed with them the whole question
of their position in Japan. A copy of a memorandum of
2/
their conversation with Mr. Matsushima is enclosed.
In this connection, however, it will be remembered
that the foreign oil interests have at no time received
a definite assurance from the Japanese Government in
regard

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
regard to their trade in Korea. In the five-point
memorandum of April 13, 1935, in duscussing the per-
centage of the natural increase to be allotted to
the foreign companies, the phrase "Chosen possibly
better" was inserted. While not a definite assurance,
the inclusion of this clause indicated that it was
intended that at least the same and possibly better
treatment, than that accorded in Japan Proper, would
be accorded in Korea. hen this Embassy took the
five-point memorandum to the Foreign Office for con-
firmation, however, Mr. Kurusu, then Chief of the
Bureau of Commercial Affairs, stated that he was un-
able to confirm the point in regard to Korea, as he
had not participated in the disoussions on this point.
The assurance contained in the five-point memorandum,
therefore, cannot be considered to be of value, es-
pecially in view of the fact that the oil quotas in
Korea and Formosa are not administered by the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry of the central Government
but are administered by the Governments General, under
the supervision of the Ministry of Overseas Affairs.
The foreign oil companies, however, are of the opinion
that the treatment accorded them in Korea may be con-
sidered as an indication of the treatment which they
may in the future receive in Japan Proper, and there-
fore they are inclined to consider the matter as of
considerable importance.
Reply to Representations.
As the Department was informed in the Embassy's
telegram

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
telegram No. 6, January 15, 6 p.m., on January 15,
1937, Mr. Matsushima of the Foreign Office handed
to Mr. Dickover the reply to the formal representa-
tions made on December 24, 1936. The reply to the
aide memoire was in the form of a note verbale, a
3/
copy of which is enclosed, while in another document,
4/
marked "Unofficial" (copy enclosed) were the replies
to the two points regarding the kerosene quotas
and the proposed revised tariff which had been brought
out in the oral representations. The British Embassy
at approximately the same time received the reply to
their representations, in the form of a note verbale
5/
(copy enclosed) containing the same information, in
almost the same words, as that in the two documents
received by this Embassy. The British Embassy had
not divided its representations into oral and formal,
as had this Embassy, and consequently the form of the
reply was somewhat different. The notes were de-
livered in both the Japenese and English languages,
in order that, as Mr. Matsushima said to Mr. Dick-
over, "there might be no misunderstanding". This
procedure is unusual, as the Foreign Office almost in-
variably uses only Japanese in its correspondence
with the foreign diplomatic missions in Tokyo.
Both this Embassy and the British Embassy con-
sider the phrase, "On the contrary, the reference was
intended to be a oonfirmation in writing of the four
points" as a satisfactory assurance and as a gratifying
conolusion

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
conolusion to our respective representations. The
reply to the oral representations was not as satis-
factory, as it indicated that the foreign oil com-
panies in the future will be made to bear the bulk
of reductions made necessary in the quotas because of
increased domestic production, on the ground that such
cases are "exceptional", and, moreover, that the Government
intends to proceed with the proposed tariff revision,
thus indicating that little reliance can be placed on the
previous verbal assurance that there will be no further
discrimination between importers and refiners in fixing
tariffs.
Attitude of the Companies.
The local representatives of the American and
British oil interests express themselves as greatly
pleased with the broad assurances obtained through
the Foreign Office in regard to their trade in Japan
Proper, and feel that all has been obtained that could
be expeoted from the Government. The tendenoy shown
gradually to whittle away the trade of the foreign oil
companies in Korea they regard as regrettable, and they
consider that the replies given to the oral representa-
tions indicate that advantage will be taken of oppor-
tunities for "exceptions" to turn over all the natural
incfease in the trade in Japan Proper to the domestic
refineries. Taking these facts into consideration,
therefore, they believe that their future trading posi-
tion in the Japanese Empire will be approximately as
follows:

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
follows: In Japan Proper they will be able to retain
their 1935 volume of trade, probably with small in-
creases in quotas if the manufacture of substitutes
(oil from the hydrogenation of coal and alcohol) in-
creases in lesser ratio than the natural increase in
consumption of oils, but with decreases in quotas if
the manufacture of substitutes increases in greater
ratio. The Formosa position will be much the same,
with perhaps the l936 volume of trade as the basis.
In Korea no more than the 1937 volume of trade can be
expected (it will be remembered that the 1937 quotas
were cut considerably below those for l936), with the
possibility that quotas will be decreased still further
because of the increasing local production of oil from
coal. As the price for retaining this volume of busi-
ness, the foreign oil companies are asked to invest
more capital in order to supply tankage for three
months' stocks of oil and to assure the Mitsui in-
terests of an adequate return on their investment
in arranging for the storage, on behalf of the foreign
oil companies, of an additional three months' stocks
of o11.
This, very briefly, is the position in which the oil
interests now find themselves. The directors of the com-
panies have been fully acquainted with the facts and are
now considering them. In view of the political crisis
in Japan at the moment, however, it is believed that the
directors will delay a decision until the complexion of
the

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
the nert Cabinet is ascertained, as the character of
the government under which the companies will have to
operate has an important bearing on the case.
Respectfully yours,
2072
Joseph C. Grew.
5
Enclosures:
1. Memorandum of Conversation, Mr. Matsushima,
Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
and Mr. Dickover, January 9, 1937.
2. Memorandum of Conversation, Mr. Matsushima,
Messrs Meyer and Ely, January 20, 1937.
3. Copy of Note Verbale, from the Department of
Foreign Affairs to the Embassy, January 14, 1937
4. Copy of an Unofficial statement- Department of
Foreign Affairs to the Embassy, January 14, 1937.
5. Copy in translation of a Note Verbale from the
Department of Foreign Affairs to the British
Embassy, dated January 15, 1937.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh No.
2233 of January 29, 1937, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation.
January 9, 1937.
Mr. Matsushina, Chief of the Bureau
of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, and
Mr. Dickover.
Subject: Petroleum.
I called on Mr. Matsushima at the Foreign Office at
11:30 by appointment.
I recalled to Mr. Matsushima's attention the fact
that the American Ambassador had made certain representa-
tions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 24,
in regard to the assurances which the American oil inter-
ests required in order to continue business in Japan on a
secure basis. I then stated that the gasoline quotas which
were given the Standard Vacuum Oil Company in Korea for the
first half of 1937 were 37.7% less than one-half of the
1936 quotas and that smaller reductions, of about l0%, had
been made in the quotas for kerosene and lubricating oil.
I pointed out that these reductions in the Korean quotas,
added to the previous developments which had been men-
tioned in our representations, were most disheartening to
the American oil interests. I said that the oil companies
were being asked either to invest further large sums of
money in Japan or to guarantee an adequate return on the
sums advanced by the Mitsui interest to store the non-
commercial stocks of oil for the Standard interests, and
that it was impossible for the American in terests either
to invest further sums of money in Japan or to guarantee
an adequate return to Mitsui when their future here was
as uncertain as was indicated by this latest development
in the situation. Mr. Matsushima agreed heartily, and
said that Mr. Arita had asked him to take up the whole
problem

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
problem of the foreign oil interests in Japan with the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry and was pressing him
almost every day to urge the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry for an eerly adjustment of the situation. He
proceeded to state that he did not believe thet the
English version of the reply of the Ministry of Comnerce
and Industry to the Standard Vacuum Oil Company's request
for assurences had been properly translated. He said
that, instead of the translation "careful consideration"
he thought that "due consideration" or "full consideration"
would have been better. He said that in Japan the latter
interpretations would have been considered as adequate
for assurances. He added, however, that he understood
the forein companies' position and feelings in the
matter. He said that imaediately after receiving the
roply of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry they had
received a cut in their kerosene quotas and a threat
of discriminatory tariffs and that those factors caused
the companies to doubt the value of the assurances which
had been given by the Ministry of Comnerce and Industry.
He said that he was discussing this phase of the question
with that Ministry and was endeavoring to persuade them
to restore the quotas to their previous quantities and
to adjust the situation in other ways in order to meet
the requirements of the foreign oil companies.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2 to despateh No.
2233 of January 29 , 1937 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
January 20, 1937.
PRESENT:
Mr. Matsushima (Chief of Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Office)
Messrs. Meyer (S-V.O.C.) and Kly ( R.S.P.Co.)
After opening in a very pleasant manner this first
interview since he had succeeded to Mr. Kurusu's position,
Mr. Matsushima said that he understood that the Com anies' rep-
resentatives wished to see him in regard to the Chosen quota
matter concerning whioh Sir George Sansom and Mr. Dickover had
also paid him a visit previously. Messrs. Meyer and Ely
confirmed that this was so: Mr. Matsushima would appreciate,
they said, the importance of this matter to them, especially
now that the contents of the Japanese Government's notes
to the British and U.S. Embassies had been made known to
their Prinoipals, as the treatment they received in Chosen
must materiaily influence their interpretation of the as-
surances which had been given by the Government.
Mr. Matsushima said that he had already addressed an
official enquiry to the Overseas Ministry but had not yet
received a reply, so that he was not in a position to make
any comments at the moment. He asked if the Companies were
represented in Keijo and if the Government General had given
any explanation of the reduction in quotas. He was told
that the very brief explanation to the Companies' Keijo
Managers was to the effect that the reduction was due to
the factor of production by hydrogenation, but the manner
in whieh this factor had been taken into account was, to
put it mildly, extraordinary. Messrs. Meyer and Ely had
brought for Mr. Matsushima a copy of the protest they had
filed in the form of a letter addressed to the Governor
General and this, they thought, would make the position
clear to him: generally the treatment they had received
in regard to Chosen quotas seemed to be entirely at variance
with the assurances given by the Government.
Mr. Matsushima pointed out that the question of the
Chosen quotas had not been raised when the Embassies made their
representations to the Foreign Office. It had not come up
until later - actually when the Government's reply had
already been drafted - and therefore, while the reply made
reference to two partioular points, the Tariff and the
Japan Kerosene Quotas, which had been mentioned originally
by the Embassies it could not deal with the Chosen matter.
He had, however, made enquiries and would let the Companies
know as 'soon as possible.
Messrs.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Messrs. Meyer and Ely thanked Mr. Matsushima and
hoped that they would hear something in the very near
future. In regard to the matter of the Japan Kerosene
quotas, whioh Mr. Matsushima had just mentioned, they
wished to say that they had been informed by their
Embassies of the reference made to it in the Japanese
Government's notes, but they themselves were unable to
understand it. Their Companies had not complained that
no increase in quotas had been given to them in 1936 but
that their trade had been decreased in that year as com-
pared with l935, while other companies had been given
increases. After the facts of the case had been briefly
outlined, a copy of the Companies' joint letter to the
Minister of Commeree and Industry was handed to Mr.
Matsushima who promised to study it.
Mr. Matsushima said that he hoped that this whole
oil question would be settled soon, but it seemed to him
rather as though things were going in a vicious circle -
the Commerce Department's attitude being that the Com-
panies could not be given increased trade until they had
conformed with the Law, and the Companies' that they
were not willing to conform unless they were given an
increase. Messrs. eyer and Ely said that this was not
so: the position was that the arrangements whereby stocks
would be laid down to conform with the Law involved them
in certain obligations with Mitsuis and they could not
undertake these obligations unless and until they knew
where they stood - it was, as their Directors had
put it on one oocasion, almost a matter of straight
mathematios. The sooner their Principals could inter-
pret more precisely the assurances given by the Govern-
ment, the quicker could stock-keeping arrangements be
made.
In concluding the interview Mr. Matsushima re-
iterated his willingness to see Messrs. meyer and Ely
at any time and to do his utmost to bring about a satis-
factory solution of the Companies' problems.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch No.
2233 of January 29, 1937 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY
THE GADMUSHO
TOKIO
(Translation)
Note Verbale.
The Department of Foreign Affairs, having consulted
the competent Department on the subject of the Aide
Memoire of the United States Embassy, dated December
24th, 1936, have the honour to state in reply as follows:
The Japanese Government have no intention to make
any discrimination between the business operations of the
Standard Vacuum Oil Company, which represents the American
oil interests in Japan, and those of eny other oil indus-
trialists. Nor have they any thought whatever of driving
out of Japan the American oil interests represented by
that company. To be more precise, the phrase, "they will
be taken into full consideration", in the reply addressed
by the Director of the Mines Bureau in the Department of
Commerce and Industry to the General Manager of the Standard
Vacuum Oi1 Company, under date of November 2lst, 1936, did
not mean that consideration would be given to the question
as to whether or not the four points enumerated in the
letter addressed by the General Lanager of the said company
to the Minister for Commerce and Industry on October 9th,
1936, would be carried into execution. On the contrary,
the reference was intended to be a confirmation in writing
of the four points. The company, therefore, need entertain
no misgiving, and it is hoped that this information will be
conveyed

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
conveyed to it so that there shall be no misunder-
standings in this connection.
The Japanese Government hereby declare that, so
long as the above-mentioned company faithfully observes
the Japanese laws and regulations concerned, they will
always be prepared to give favourable consideration to
its business operations. At the same time, they desire
to point out that the company should speedily fulfil
the obligations required by the Japanese laws and re-
gulations.
January 14th, 1937.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 1.00)
Enolosure No. 4 to de-
spatoh No. 2233 of January
29, 1937 from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
COPY
THE GAIMUSHO
TOKIO
Unorficial.
When the Aide Memoire of the United States Embassy,
dated December 24th, 1936, was handed to the Department
of Foreign Affairs, reference was orally made to the
allotment of kerosene quotas for the latter part of 1936
and to the proposed revision of the tariff on petroleum
and petroleum products. On these points the Japanese
Government have the following views:
1. That an increase was allowed to home oil in-
dustrialists but not to the Standard Vacuum Oil
Company, in the allotment of kerosene sales
quotas for the latter half of 1936, is because
the increase in the home output of oil, and this
alone, rendered it possible to increase allot-
ments. Such being the case, an exceptional treat-
ment was required, due note being taken of the
first of the four points set forth in the letter
addressed to the Minister for Commerce and In-
dustry by the General Manager of the Standard
Vacuum Oil Company on October 9th, 1936.
2.
The proposed tariff revision imposes no increase
on the kerosene, light oil and lubricating oil
contained

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
contained in crude petroleum, but this Customs
treatment admits of no reasonable objection, as
it is applicable, without distinction, to any
person or conoern.
January 14th, 1937.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to despatch
No.2233 of January 29, 1937
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
(Translation)
Note Verbale.
The Department of Foreign Affairs, having consulted
the competent Department on the subject of the Note Verbale
of the British Embassy, dated December 24th, 1936, have the
honour to state in reply as follows:
The Japanese Government have no intention to make any
discrimination between the business operations of the
Rising Sun Petroleum Co.,Ltd., which represents the British
oil interests in Japan, and those of any other oil indus-
trialists. Nor have they any thought whatever of driving
out of Japan the British oil interests represented by that
company. To be more precise, the phrase, they will be
taken into full consideration", in the reply addressed by
the Director of the Mines Bureau in the Department of
Commerce and Industry to the Managing Director of the
Rising Sun Petroleum Co., under date of November 2lst,
1936, did not mean that consideration would be given to
the question as to whether or not the four points enu-
merated in the letter addressed by the Managing Director
of the said company to the Minister for Commerce and In-
dustry on October 9th, 1936, would be carried into execu-
tion. On the contrary, the reference was intended to be
a confirmation in writing of the four points. The company,
therefore, need entertain no misgiving, and it is hoped
that this information will be conveyed to it so that there
shall

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
shall be no misunderstandings in this connection.
The British Note Verbale refers to the fact that
no increase was granted to the Rising Sun Petroleum
Co. in the new trading quotas for kerosene for the
latter half of l936. The fact is that the increase
then made in the quotas for home oil industrialists was
due to the increase in the home output of oil. Accord-
ingly, under the first of the four points above referred
to, the matter was dealt with as an exceptional case.
Reference is also made to the proposed import tariff
rates, but this Customs treatment is applicable to any
person or concern without any distinction, and i not,
therefore, of a nature to present any question.
The Japanese Government hereby declare that, so
long as the above-mentioned company faithfully observes
the Japanese laws and regulations concerned, they will
always be prepared to give favourable consideration to
its business operations. At the same time, they desire
to point out that the company should speedily fulfil the
obligations required by the Japanese laws and regulations.
January 15th, 1937.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.90)
April 9 1907
-1676
to the American Ambassador,
London.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
instruotion No. 1663 of Jamuary 26, 1937, and to
894.6363/310
previous correspondence with regard to the oll si tue-
tiem in Japan, and in conneetion therewith enoleses,
for the iafermation of the Ambassador, a copy, with
emelesures, of despatoh No. 2233 of January 29, 1937,
from the Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo.
eslecures:
 Ameriean
maowr, Tokye.
of Jammary 29, 1937,
with enelesures.
A tue cep of
SKA

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE .....894.00 P.R./109
FOR ....#2221
FROM .. Japan
Grew
.) DATEDJan.21,1937
894.663/
TO
NAMC
1.-1127
REGARDING:
American and British Oil interests in Japan: Developments of the
month of Deo., 1936.
C
FRG.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 1.00)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) American and British Oil Interests in Japan.
No satisfactory written confirmation was received
from the Japanese Government of the oral assurances
894.6363
given to the representatives of the American and British
oil interests on September 19, 1936, by Mr. Yoshino, then
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry.* Furthermore,
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry having adopted an
antagonistic attitude in November, certain other indi-
cations of opposition to and discrimination against the
foreign oil companies became manifest in the first half
of December. Therefore the representatives of the Ameri-
can and British companies came to the conclusion that
little or nothing could be expected from the oral assur-
ances which had been given in good faith by Mr. Yoshino
before his resignation as Vice Minister for Commerce and
Industry.**
Consequently, after consultation between the Ameri-
can and British oil representatives and their respective
Embassies and under instructions received from the Gov-
ernments of the United States and reat Britain, the Ameri-
can and British Embassies on December 24 made substantial-
ly identical (not joint) representations in writing to the
Japanese Foreign Office in which each Government expressed
its anxiety with regard to the future of its oil interests
in Japan, requested a definite indication from the Japan-
ese Government that the latter does not desire to force
those oil interests out of Japan, and expressly requested
that the Japanese Government give the written assurances
sought
* Embassy's despatch No. 2076 of October 14, 1936.
**Embassy's despatch No. 2194 of December 28, 1936.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
sought by its oil interests for the ccnt nuation of op-
erations in Japan.*
On December 25, the day after the making of repre-
sentations, a report was published by Domei to the effect
that the American Ambassador had notified the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the intention of the United States
Government to retain 19,O00 tons of destroyers in excess
of the London Treaty limits because of Great Britain's
retention of five. "B" class cruisers under the authority
of Article 17 of the London Naval Treaty. Since the
American Government's notification of the retention of
destroyers had been made on November 6, there is a
possibility that the Japanese Foreign Office gave out
this version of the Ambassador's conversation with Mr.
Arita in an effort to conceal the fact that representa-
tions had been made by the American and British Govern-
ments on the oil question.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./110
Desp.#2257
SEE
FOR
894.6363/312
Japen
Grew
Feb.15,1937
FROM
) DATED
t01111
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
merican Oil Interests in Japen:Developments
in connection with -,during January,1937:Reports
regarding this subject.
fpg
312

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests.
Early in January the Standard and Shell gasoline quotas
for Korea for the first half of l937 were considerably
reduced.* and on January 9 Mr. Dickover, First Secretary
of the Embassy, made an oral and informal approach to Mr.
Matsushima, Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of
the Foreign Office, on this matter, calling to his atten-
tion the general representations made on December 4 with
regard to American oil interests in Japan,** reciting briefly
the facts of the Korean situation, and stating that these
developments were very disheartening to the American oil
interests. Sir George Sansom, the Commercial Counselor of
the British Embassy,also approachedMr. Matsushima informally
with regard to the Korean quotas.***
Replying to the Embassy's formal representations of
December 24, the Japanese Foreign Office on January 15
delivered a note verbale to the Embassy in which it was
stated that the Japanese Government had no intention of
discriminating between the business operations of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Cumpany and those of any other oil
companies, that the Japanese Government had no thought
whatever of driving the American oil interests out of
Japan, and that the Japanese Ministry of Commerce and
Industry had intended a certain letter to be a confirmation
of the four-point oral assurances given to the representa-
tives of the American and British oil interests on Sep-
tember 19, 1936, by Mr. Yoshino, then Vice Minister for
Commerce and Industry.****
At about the same time the
British Embassy received a similar reply to its representa-
tions of December 24. These replies were considered by
both
Embassy's telegram No. 3, January 8, 1937.
Embassy's telegrams No. 264 of December 19, 1936, and
No. 268 of December 24, 1936.
**
Embassy's d
ch No. 2233 of January 29, 1937.
Embassy's t
No. 6 of January 15, 1937.

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
both the American and British Embassies to be satisfactory.
On the other hand, the Japanese Government's replies to the
points regarding kerosene quotas and the proposed revised
tariff were not so satisfactory as the general assurances
mentioned above.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 22, 1937
Tokyo's No. 2337 of April 1 disausses
Japan's efforts to free herself of dependence
on foreign countries for liquid fuel.
The Minister for Commerce and Industry
described in the Diet the bill which would
create an Imperial Fuel Company which would
serve as the central administrative organ
for all synthetic petroleum enterprises in
Japan. It would be capitalized at about
Yen 750 million and shared in by both
Government and public.
It is hoped that by the operation of
this Company Japan would become largely
self-sufficient in liquid fuel within seven
years. By 1943, it is expected that the
entire Japanese demand will be supplied
by gasoline substitutes and by gasoline re-
fined in Japan from imported crude oil.
It is the opinion of foreign experts
that gasoline from coal can be produced
commercially in Japan. While subsidies may
be required at first, eventually a self-
supporting gasoline industry can be
developed which, with a degree of rationing,
will be able to supply the nation in time
of war.
8946363/313
WTTYDLY

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.91)
8325
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFIDE OF EDOCIONNG ADVISER
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMER
CA
MAY 3 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 2337.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 1, 1937.
SUBJECT: JAPAN'S SEARCH FOR OIL.
894.6363
NANDAD.
894.650
Ot
WTD
M 2 09
5337
APR30
B
C:
A
1957
EWHB
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
69
sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatoh
303
No. 2183, dated December 15, 1936, and to previous correy
pondence on the subject of the efforts being made by the
Japanese Government to obtain adequate independent sonrces
of liquid fuel, and to report the following recent develop-
ments in the situation.
oil from Coal.
Replying to an interpellation at a meeting of the
budget committee of the Lower House of the Diet on March
22, 1937, the Minister for Commerce and Industry, Admiral
Godo,
F-G

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Godo, made a statement explanatory of the Imperial Fuel
Company bill and the bill for the encouragement of the
artificial petroleum industry. The two measures constitute
a seven-year fuel plan under which the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry hopes to render Japan about 60 per cent self-
sufficient in gasoline and 45 per cent self-sufficient
in heavy oil by 1943 (the term "heavy oil" refers to
oils such as fuel oil and diesel oil).
According to the statement of the Minister for Com-
merce and Industry, it is planned to invest a total of
Yen 700,000,000, partly in the form of subscriptions
to stock and partly in the form of debentures, in the
projected Imperial Fuel Company, which will act as the
central administrative organ for all synthetic petro-
leum enterprises in Japan. In addition, the existing
synthetic petroleum plants, capitalized at approxi-
mately Yen 50,000,000, will be taken over by the Imperial
Fuel Company, making the total funds invested in the in-
dustry about Yen 750,000,000. It is planned that the
Government and the public will share equally in the sub-
scriptions to the stock of the Company.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry estimates that,
taking the annual increase in demand as 160,000 kilo-
litres, by 1943 the domestic demand for gasoline will be
2,470,000 kilolitres. During the same period the domes-
tio supply will increase from 78,200 kilolitres to 1,520,500
kilolitres. Therefore, whereas in l936 there was a short-
age in supply as compared with demand of 1,271,800 kilo-
litres, by 1943 the shortage will be reduced to 949,500
kilolitres. Detailed figures of this supply and demand
estimate,

=== Page 415 === (confidence 1.00)
- 3-
estimate, as compiled by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, are as follows:
Year Domestio Demand
Domestio Supply
Shortage
(all figures in kilolitres)
1936
1,350,000
78,200
1,271,800
1937
1,510,000
106,400
1,403,600
1938
1,670,000
176,900
1,493,100
1939
1,830,000
368,200
1,461,800
1940
1,990,000
616,700
1,373,300
1941
2,150,000
810,000
1,340,000
1942
2,310,000
1,230,000
1,080,000
1943
2,470,000
1,520,500
949,500
(The above figures of domestic supply apparently do not
include gasoline refined in Japan from imported crude oil.)
The domestic supply given above is being or is to be
derived from the following sources:
Year
Refined
Hydrogen-
Gasoline
Low Tem-
Alcohol
from
ation
Synthesis
perature
Domestic
of
Carboni-
Crude
Coal
zation
(All figures in kilolitres)
1936
75,700
2,500
1937
82,500
21,000
2,900
1938
85,500
30,000
19,500
3,500
38,400
1939
89,300
103,800
104,000
10,300
60,800
1940
93,000
236,000
175,500
16,800
95,400
1941
93,000
242,900
247,000
22,800
204,300
1942
93,000
480,900
318,500
30,300
207,300
1943
93,000
602,000
390,000
36,500
399,000
(Note: In the above and following tables, the phrase "hydro-
genation of coal" refers to liquefaction of coal by such pro-
cesses as that known as the "I.H.P." or similar processes
developed in Japan; the phrase "gasoline synthesis" or "oil
synthesis" refers to gasoline or oil derived from coal by
the Fischer method, of which the Japan rights were purchased
by the Mitsui interests.)
It

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
It will be noted that the estimated shortage of
supply of gasoline in 1943 is 949,500 kilolitres. The
existing refineries in Japan, which operate on imported
crude, have a capacity of 844,500 kilolitres, and addi-
tional refining capacity of 28l,000 kilolitres has been
sanctioned by the Government. By l943, therefore, there
apparently will no longer be need to import refined gaso-
line, as the entire Japanese demand will be supplied by
gasoline substitutes and by gasoline refined in Japan
from imported crude oil.
Likewise, taking the annual increase in demand as
180,O00 kilolitres, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
estimates that the donestic demand for heavy oil, which
in 1936 was 1,600,000 kilolitres, wil1 reaoh 2,860,000
kilolitres by 1943. Of this demand, 1,286,000 kilolitres
will be sup lied by domestic production, leaving a shortage
of 1,574,000 kilolitres. The Ministry's figures for 1936
and 1943 are as follows:
Year Domestic Demand
Domestic Supply
Shortage
(All figures in kilolitres)
1936
1,600,000
156,000
1,444,000
1943
2,860,000
1,286,000
1,574,000
The domestic supply of heavy oil in 1943 will be ob-
tained from the following souroes:
Hydrogenation of coal
. . . .418,000 kilolitres
Oil synthesis .
.210,000
n
Low temperature carbonization . . . . .51l,000
Refined from domestic drude . . . . ..147,000
n
Total
1,286,000
n
The shortage in supply of heavy oil is to be covered
by imports of crude oil or refined products.
It is estimated that this soheme will require about
9,000,000

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
9,000,000 motrio tons of coal per annum. It is planned
to obtain this coal from the following souroes: 4,500,000
tons from Japan Proper; 2,200,000 tons from Japanese colo-
nies; 2,300,000 tons from "Manchukuo". 2,000,000 tons
are to consist of coal perfectly suited to the hydroge-
nation processes, while the remainder of 7,000,000 tons
will consist of any kind of coal found available (pre-
sumably for oil synthesis and low temperature carboniza-
tion purposes).
The required capital of Yen 750,000,000 is to be
utilized as follows:
Already invested in synthetic oil plants. .Yen 50,000,000
Hydrogenation of coal
335,000,000
Oil synthesis .
. . . " 114,000,000
Low temperature carbonization of coal . . . " 115,000,000
Exploitation of coal mines . . . .
"127,000,000
The plan contemplates the erection of several plants,
of the annual capacity of 100,000 kilolitres each, for the
hydrogenation of coal. The plants are to be located in
towns near the source of the raw material, coal, rather
than in urban centers, and are to be designed to provido
easy access to railway and water transport.
According to the statement of the Minister for Com-
merce and Industry, the cost of production of gasoline
by either the hydrogenation process or the gasoline syn-
thesis process will, in 1937, be about 73 sen (20.8 cents)
per gallon, as compared with the present retail price of
natural petroleum gasoline in Tokyo of 51 sen (14.5 cents)
per gallon. (It is expeoted, however, that the price of
petroleum

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
petroleum gasoline will be raised to 6l sen (17.3 cents)
per gallon in the near future, owing to the proposed in-
orease of duty of 5 sen per gallon and the proposed con-
sumption tax of 5 sen per gallon.) The Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry hopes, however, that the cost of gaso-
line from coal can be lowered to 57 sen (16.2 cents) by
1943. It is hoped, moreover, that the cost of gasoline
from the low temperature carbonization of coal can be
brought down to the level of the price of natural petro-
leum gasoline by 194l. It will, therefore, be necessary
to provide a governmental subsidy for the artificial oil
plants for the first few years of operation, and it is under-
stood that a subsidy of Yen 57.00 ($16.24) per kilolitre
of gasoline will be granted for the first year. No figures
are given for the subsidy on heavy oil, if it is planned to
grant any. The total cost of the subsidies for the seven-
year scheme is estimated at Yen 95,000,000 (about $27,075,000).
In addition the Government will guarantee a minimum annual
dividend on the shares of the Imperial Fuel Company for ten
years and will guarantee the interest payments on the
debentures issued by the Company. It is expected that
these guarantees will cost the Government Yen 19,000,000
($5,415,000). The estimated cost to the Government, there-
fore, exclusive of its investment in the Imperial Fuel Com-
pany, wi11 be Yen 114,000,000 (32,490,000).
Comment.
The opinion of foreign experts (Dutoh and German) who
are or have been in Japan in conneotion with the sale to
Japanese interests of patents for the hydrogenation of coal,
is that the Japanese will be able to produce artificial
gasoline

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
gasoline and fuel oils from coal on a commeroial basis
(although somewhat more expensive than gasoline and fuel
oils from petroleum), because of the low cost of labor and
coal in Japan, Korea and Manchuria. Even at a cost of 73
sen (20.8 cents) per gallon, gasoline will not be any more
expensive in Japan than in many States of the United States,
and therefore the price should prove no great impediment
to the development of motor transport. The opinion of the
experts, however, is that the scheme cannot be realized in
less than ten years, and that it will cost about Yen 1,200,000,000
instead of Yen 750,000,000.
It will undoubtedly be necessary to subsidize the pro-
duction of gasoline from coal for a time, as the suddon
increasing of the price of natural gasoline to 73 sen per
gallon by means of customs and consumption taxes would create
a social problem in Japan, where taxi, bus and truck owners are
accustomed to operate on 5l sen gasoline. However, it is ex-
pected that the Government will pay subsidies to the pro-
ducers of gasoline from coal for a time, and will gradually
raise the price of petroleum gasoline, thereby acoustoming
the populace to increased cost of motor transport. Even-
tually the Government will be able to dispense with the sub-
sidies and will have a self-supporting artificial gasoline
industry, which, with a degree of rationing, will be able to
supply the nation in time of war.
The development of this substitute liquid fuel industry
in Japan has a very important bearing upon the future in
this country of the American and other foreign oil interests.
Th1s

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8-
This problem will be disoussed in the next of the series
of despatches on the subjeot of "American Oil Interests
in Japan".
Respectfully yours,
Po. 
Joseph C. Grew.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 30, 1937.
JWB
JCV
Although this despatch from
Tokyo about the difficulti es of
the foreign oil ∞ mpanies has
already been passed around the
Division, you may wish to revi ew
it. The last section, beginning
on page 6, merits a close reading.
The concluding paragraph of the
despatch states the gi st of the
probl em and sets forth the
suggestion that the fo reign oil
companies should consider seriously
the formulation of a definite
polioy for the future in view of
positive indications that the
Japanese Government intends to
force them out of business.
N1

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FFIDE OF ECOMDONG ADVISER
OF THE
MAY 21 19377
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2347.
Tokyo, April 2, 1937.
SUBJECT: A ERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
13
2
SNOI
Assistant Secretary
of State
PH
MAY 1 0 1937
16701
MR. SAYRE
69
MID
st.cth G fatd
oN1
C
Ci
5/314
The Honorable
F
The Secretary of State,
T
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 2233, dated January 29, 1937, on the subject of the
difficulties being experienced in Japan by the American
and other foreign oil interests under the Petroleum In-
dustry Law of l934, and to submit the following report
AN
on the latest developments in the situation.
JG1
FILED
Korean Quotas.
1
19
In dospatch No. 2233, the Embassy reported that the Stan-
dard-Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company
had protested to the Government General of Korea against
the reduotion in their sales quotas for the first half
of 1937 and had called upon Mr. Matsushima, Chief of the
Bureau
F/G

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office,
leaving with him copies of their protests to the Govern-
ment General. On February 4 the local represontatives
of the two companies left with Mr. Matsushima copies of
a telegram on the subject from their head offices (copy
1/
enclosed). Having received no repiy from either the
Government General or Mr. Matsushima, the local representa-
tives of the two companies called on Mr. Matsushima on
March 16 to inquire regarding the reply. Mr. Matsushima
said that he had referred the matter to the Government
General through the Department of Overseas Affairs and
had received a reply, which he had sent back as being
"too simple". (He probably meant that the reply was not
logical.) In the meantime, as a matter of policy, the two
companies have been selling gasoline in Korea at the same
rate as during last year, i.e., as if there had been no cut
in their quotas. Consequently, they will have sold out
their quotas for the first half of the year by the end of
April, after which their dealers will have to close down
their selling stations until July l, unless some ameliora-
tion of their position can be obtained. The dealers in
Korea of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company realize the plight
in which they will be placed, and have sent a delegation
to Japan to press the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company to adopt
some plan which will assure them of a continuance of their
trade. The dealers at first proposed that they be permitted
to handle petroleum products other than those of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, in order to replace the deficit
caused by the cut in the quota of the Company. They later
proposed

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
proposed that they be permitted to establish in Korea a
refinery to supply them with gasoline equivalent to the
former Standard-Vacuum quota, the Company to guarantee
them a steady supply of crude oil for refining. They
also informed the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company that the
Government General of Korea intended to establish a
socond refinery in the peninsula, the first being the
refinery of the recently-established Chosen Oil Company,
and expected that the two oil refineries, with the coal
hydrogenation plants to be established under the Imperial
Fuel Company, would be able to supply the entire demand of
Korea for gasoline within a few years, at which time the
Government General would institute a petroleum monopoly
similar to that already established in "Manchukuo". The
Standard-Vacuum dealers hoped to obtain the license for
this second refinery and thus to be able to continue in
the petroleum business even should a monopoly be established
and the foreign oil companies be completely eliminated from
the Korean market. The dealers (all of whom are Japanese)
claimed that they had had no previous understanding with
the Government General of Korea, but the local representa-
tives of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Comrany are not inclined
to credit this statement. For some unknown reason, the
dealers of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company have not joined
the Standard-Vacuum dealers in the movement to finance a
refinery in Korea.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company informed the dealers
that the Company would under no circumstances give considera-
tion to the refinery proposal or to any alternative proposal
unt11

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
until the Japanese Government had replied to its petition
in regard to restoration of its Korean quotas, and that
while the Company expected that the Government's reply
would be favorable and would permit it to remain in busi-
ness in Korea under its present status, nevertheless should
the reply be unfavorable, it was doubtful that the Company
would agree to the refinery proposal if it were conditional
upon a commitment by the Company to supply crude oil. The
dealers are not satisfied with this reply and propose to
remain in Yokohama until the matter is settled. The local
representatives of the Company have referred the matter to
the head office of the Company in New York but as yet no
reply has been received except as indicated in the next
section of this report.
Representations.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company is therefore being faced
with a situation in which it is unable to obtain a satis-
factory reply from the Korean Government General or the
Japanese Government to its petition to have its Korean quotas
restored, while its dealers are pressing for some solution
of the difficulty. Moreover, the cut in the Korean quotas
was made on the excuse that room had to be made for the
products of the hydrogenation of coal (although as a matter
of fact such products will not come on the market in Korea
until the latter part of the year), and the Company is in-
clined to believe that the treatment which they have received
in Korea in this connection will constitute an inder of the
tremtment which they will receive in the much larger
Japanese market when the coal hydrogenation plants now pro-
posed (see neit section) come into production. The assurances
given

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
given the oil companies through their respective Embassies
(Embassy's despatch No. 2194, dated December 28, 1936, and
despatch No. 2233, dated January 29, 1937), it will be
remembered, provides for the allocation of quotas, "subject
to preference being given to increase in indigenous produc-
tion (that is, domestic production of petroleum and manu-
facture of petroleum substitutes"). Later in the same as-
surance it is provided that should there be a decrease in
consumption or increase in indigenous production, "consi-
deration will be given so that the decrease is apportioned
fairly in the light of actual conditions at the time". The
companies place great importance upon the interpretation of
the word "fairly" and hold that they were not treated fair-
ly in the allocation of the Korean quotas, and that the in-
terpretation of the word in the allocation of the Korean quotas
may create a precedent which will be followed in Japan Proper
in the future.
The circumstances bein& as indicated above, the head of-
fices of the companies cabled to their local representatives
on March 24, 1937, suggesting that in their opinion it would
appear to be appropriate at the present juncture for the
Embassies to express concern to the Japanese Foreign Office,
at least unofficially, on the ground that the assurances are
not being implemented, especially in Korea, and to ask for
an early statement of the companies' position. The local
representatives of the oil companies discussed the question
with their respective Embassies, with the result that it
was decided not to make inquiries of the Foreign Office, even
informally and orally, at the present moment, because (1)
tho

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.95)
27-1
- 6 -
the local representatives of the oil companies have not
yet pressed the Foreign Office sufficiently to be consi-
dered to have exhausted all resources at their command,
(2) an unofficial or informal inquiry of the Foreign of-
fice would only elicit an unofficial reply, which would
be of little or no value, and (3) the Embassies prefer
not to waste their influence with the Foreign Office on
心
minor questions, such as the Korean quota question, but
to reserve their efforts for the larger issues which un-
3
doubtedly will arise in the future, as is indicated in the
0
(1)
next section of this report. The Embassies are not inclined
3
to believe that the outcome of the Korean issue will to
any considerable extent influence the vastly more important
question of the companies' position in Japan under the
Government's apparent determination to attain a reasonable
degree of self-sufficiency in liquid fuel.
The local representatives of the oil companies have
reported the attitude of the Embassies to their head offices
by cable, and it is possible that a representative of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company will discuss the question with
the Department.
Future Position of the Foreign Oil Companies in Japan.
As was reported in despatch No. 2337, dated April 1,
1937, the Japanese Government is apparently determined to
proceed with its grandiose scheme to render Japan fairly
self-sufficient in liquid fuel through the hydrogenation
of coal, oil synthesis by the Fischer method, low temperature
carbonization

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
29-2
- 7 -
cabornization of coal, and the mixing of absolute alcohol
with gasoline. The project, which contemplates the in-
vestment of about Yen 750,000,000, will establish the
Imperial Fuel Company, which will act as the financing
and administrative organ of all the synthetic gasoline
plants to be established in Japan, Korea and presumably
Manchuria. The plan contemplates the use of about
9,000,000 metric tons of coal per annum and, it is esti-
mated, will render Japan about 60 per cent self-sufficient
in gasoline and about 45 per cent self-sufficient in heavy
oil (fuel and diesel oil) at the end of seven years. Govern-
ment subsidies amounting to about Yen 1l4,000,000 will be
necessary to attain this end, in addition to the Government's
investment in the Imperial Fuel Company.
In view of the fact that coal hydrogenation industries
in other countries have not been commercially feasible be-
cause of the high cost, as compared with the cost of petro-
loum gasoline, of the gasoline produced by such hydrogena-
tion industries, it might be thought that the Japanese
scheme is impractical. Foreign experts who have studied
the question in Japan, however, are of the opinion that
the project is feasible, largely because of the low cost of
labor and coal in Japan, although it is improbable that the
object can be attained in seven years (ten years being a more
likely period) or that the scheme will cost only Yen 750,000,000.
It is considered more probable that the total cost of the
project will be about Yen 1,200,000,000. However, if the
military authorities are determined to proceed with the
plan and render Japan reasonably self-sufficent in liquid
fue1

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
27-3
- 8 -
fuel, there is every reason to believe that they will
eventually accomplish their object, regardless of the
cost to the nation. The plans have been delayed for a
time by the dissolution of the Lower House of the Diet
before the Imperial Fuel Company bill and the bill pro-
viding for subsidies for the hydrogenation industries
could be approved, but the bills will undoubtedly be re-
introduced into the next session of the Diet and there is
no reason to believe that they will not be approved.
This scheme of the Government is of great importance
to the foreign oil interests in Japan, principally because
it will, if carried out, deprive them of their market here
for gasoline and kerosene, although it is probable that they
could continue to do some business ir other petroleum products.
As was stated before, the plan contemplates the production
of 60 per cent of Japan's requirements of gasoline by the
1943-44 fiscal year. This production does not include the
gasoline refined in Japan from imported crude oil. The
existing Japanese oil refineries, plus those already sanc-
tioned, will be able to produce the remaining 40 per cent
of Japan's requirements. In regard to kerosene, the authori-
ties are already in a position to dispense with imports
from foreign sources at any time. The position therefore
is that, by l944, or a year or two later, there will be no
room in the Japanese trade for imports of so-called "white
products".
The assurances recently received from the Japanese
Government concerning the future position of the foreign oil
companies in Japan do not protect the companies against
reduotion

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
22-4
- 9 -
reduction of quotas caused by increase of indigenous pro-
duction of gasoline substitutes. The assurances only
specify that "consideration will be given that the decrease
is apportioned fairly in the light of actual conditions at
the time". It may therefore reasonably be assumed that the
decrease in the demand for petroleum gasoline caused by the
increase in production of gasoline from coal will fall upon
the foreign gasoline importing companies, and that the domes-
tic refineries will be authorized to care for the entire
amount of gasoline which cannot be supplied by the hydroge-
nation plants. In regard to fuel and diesel oils, the
foreign oil companies will be in a somewhat better position,
as the hydrogenation plants, according to the estimate, will
be able to supply only about 45 per cent of the demand, but
the foreign companies estimate that most of the demand will
be given to Japanese importers, unless and until the foreign
companies lay in the six months' stocks required by law. As
the foreign companies cannot store such stocks under present
conditions in Japan, it appears that all or almost all of
the fuel and diesel oil trade will go to Japanese importers.
The same conditions apply to the lubricating oil and grease
trade.
Recent circumstances tend to indicate that the Japanese
authorities have in mind the forcing out of Japan of the
two foreign oil importing companies by the gradual reduction
of their quotas as products from the hydrogenation of coal
come into the market. This is, of course, implied in the
whole scheme of obtaining oil from coal, but recently a
new circumstanoe lends strength to this opinion. For months
previous to last November the Government had been pressing
both

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
27-5
- 10 -
both the foreign oil companies and the Mitsui interests,
with whom the oil companies then were trying to reach an
agreement in regard to the storage of non-commercial
stocks of oil, to proceed with the laying in of six months'
stocks as required by law. Since November, 1936, however,
the foreign oil companies have heard nothing further, either
from the Government or from the Mitsui interests, in regard
to the matter, and the supposition is that the Government
prefers that the oil companies remain in the position of
law-breakers (not having stored six months' stocks as re-
quired by law), in order that they will have no claim to
rights or privileges and that their quotas may be cit at
any time to make room for the products of the projected hydro-
genation plants.
The above forecast of the situation is predicated upon
the supposition that (1) the Japanese will be able to accom-
plish their program for the hydrogenation of coal and (2)
that they will be able to obtain supplies of crude oil for
their oil refineries. There is nothing now to indicate that
they will not succeed in fulfilling both of these conditions.
of course, many things may occur between now and the year
1944 which will completely change the aspect of the case,
such as a volte face in regard to Japan's policy of nationalis-
tic economy, or trade agreements which would require the
maintenance of the status guo as regards foreign investments
in Japan.At the present time, however, it can only be said
that conditionsin Japan do not appear at all hopeful for
the future of the foreign oil companies.
The foreign oil interests, therefore, are confronted
with the problem of deciding whether to sell out at once to
Japanese

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
27-6
-11-
Japanese interests (who undoubtedly would be protected by
the Government in their trade) or to wait for two or three
years longer in order to ascertain the probability of suc-
cess of the Japanese venture in the production of artifi-
cial gasoline. The only other alternative, if the Japanese
venture is successful, will be for the com anies to stay
in the market, selling what they are permitted to, and
eventually withdrawing and selling their properties at such
prices as may be obtainable under the conditions then pre-
vailing.
Under these circumstances, the Embassy believes that
it would be most useful if the headquarters of the Standard
and Shell interests could formulate a definitive policy in
regard to their trade in Japan, based on the latest develop-
ments and trends, as well as upon their past experiences in
this market. The time appears to have passed for the oil
companies to be concerning themselves with minor details
of their trade in the Japanese Empire, and it would appear
to be the part of wisdom for them to consider with the ut-
most seriousness the question of their future in Japan in
the light of the Japanese Government's apparent determination
to acquire a degree of self-sufficiency in liquid fuels. >If
and when the oil interests reach a decision in regard to this
matter, their respective diplomatic agencies will be able to
adopt an intelligent policy of assistance to them.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Gew
Enclosure:
1/ Copy of Joint Message from Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
and Rising Sun Petroleum Company, given to the Foreign
Office on February 4, 1937.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.l to despatch
No. 2347 dated Apri1,1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY
NOTE OF JOINT CABLED MESSAGE FROM LONDON & NEW YORK
Jan. 29:37
TO JAPAN REPRESENTATIVES OF R.S.P.CO. & S-V.O.C.
The Directors of the two Companies have carefully considered
the replies given by the Japanese Government to the British
and American Ambassadors and the Netherlands Minister; and,
having reference in particular to the Notes Verbales dated
15th January 1937, they find these replies in themselves
very reassuring.
The Directors are most grateful for these written assurances
from the Foreign Office of the Japanese Government; and they
would have no hesitation in considering that a satisfactory
working basis for the continuation of the operations of the
Companies in Japan had been accorded to them if currently
they were receiving from the administrative departments of
the Japanese Government the consideration and actual treat-
ment which the assurances entitle them to expect. When,
however, they attempt to weigh the assurances given by the
Foreign Office against actual past practice of the administra-
tive departments they are immediately confronted with great
anxiety and disappointment: and they are forced to the opinion
that, unless some means can be found to give effect, in the
administrative departments concerned, to the assurances from
the Foreign Office, then it will not be possible for the
Companies, as business concerns, to accept the continuation
of present practice as a working basis for their future
trading

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
trading in Japan.
The Directors respectfully request the Japanese Government's
sympathetic consideration of a review of the position of
the Companies as it appears to them:-
In l933, the last year of free trade conditions before
Government control became operative, the Companies
had a combined share in the total Gasoline trade of
Japan Proper of 53%: in 1937 (January/June) their
combined shares are only 4l% of the total trade - a
reduction of 22-l/2%. Of the Gasoline trade in Chosen
the Companies had in 1933 a share of 64%: their share
of the quotas allocated for January/June 1937 is 22-1/2% -
a reduction of 65%.
Of the Heavy Oil trade in Japan, Chosen and Taiwan the
Companies had a share of 44% in 1933: their share of
the quotas allocated for 1937 (January/June) is 32% -
a reduction of 27%.
In regard to Kerosene and Lubricating Oil, while the
reduction of their share of the trade is not so heavy
as in the case of Gasoline and Heavy Oil, it is never-
theless material and sufficient to give the Directors
greatest anxiety.
All negotiations during the last three years have been based
on three broad principles:-
Firstly that the Companies should be given quotas that
would enable them to continue trade commensurate with
the capital they had invested in the country
Secondly that the trade of the Companies should be
reasonably remunerative
Thirdly that the Companies should be treated fairly in
the matter of taxes on the Petroloum trade; and that

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
they should not be forced out of business by discrimina-
tory treatment of Importers vis-a-vis local Refiners.
The Companies have never contested the principle that a
Government has the sole right to decide what taxes it
should apply for revenue purposes: but the Directors wish
to draw the attention of the Japanese Government to the
assurances they have given, through their representative
Ministry, concerning the relative application of import
duties to Refined Cils and Crude Oils and, in particular,
to the statement made by the then Vice-Minister of Com-
merce & Industry at an interview accorded to the Companies'
Japan representatives on 22nd September, 1936, when he
emphatically declared that never again would Importers
of finished products have cause to feel discrimination
in respect of import duty and stated that he had made
this special point with the Finance Department. The
Japanese Government subsequently have realized this to
some extent in that (in the proposed revision of the
Petroleum Import Tariff) they have placed 5 sen per A.
G. on the Gasoline content of Light Crude Oil; but
their intention to abolish duty-free privileges on
Heavy Oil and to increase the duty on refined kerosene
and Lubricating Oil is directly contrary to their re-
peated verbal assurances and will put the Companies
in a position where they will either have to bear a loss
or go out of the market.
On the subject of trade quotas in Japan Proper and
in Chosen the Directors regret that they cannot accept
the Japanese Government's reply as conclusive and they
ask for further consideration and for written replies
to

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
to the letters addressed by the Companies' Japan re-
presentatives to the Minister of Commerce & Industry
on 18th December 1936 and 9th October 1936 (1etter No. M.2)
and to the letter written under date of January 14th
1937 to the Governor General in Chosen, where they regard
the action of the Government as particularly serious.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.96)
EOF E 
DEPARTMENT OF STA
DIVISION OF FAR EASFERN AFFAIRS
Assistant Secret
ry
I State
A-8
Depa tment of State
MAY10 1937
M. Sayre:
un. SAYRE
Mr. Becretary:
This despatch from Tokyo discusses the difficulties
being experienced in Japan by the Standard-Vacuum and
11 1937
NOTED
other foreign oil interests. You will probably not
2
care to read the entire despatch, much of which is
devoted to details of negotiations. However, you may
wish to glance through the portion beginning on page 6,
which discusses the future prospects of the foreign o1l
companies in Japan. For your convenience a short resumé
follows:
The Japanese Government is apparently determined to
achieve, as far as possible, self-sufficiency for Japan
in respect of liquid fuel. A grandiose scheme for
production of synthetic oil from coal is contomplated,
which would involve the establishment of a huge company
to act as the financing and administrative organ for the
A
FILED
various oil plants. Foreign experts who have studied the
matter report that the project is feasible because of
引3
the low cost of labor and coal in Japan, although heavy
subsidies may be required.
This scheme, if carried out, will deprive the foreign
oil companies of most of their market. The Embassy states
that recent circumstances tend to indicate that the
Japanese

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Japanese authorities have in mind gradually foroing the
foreign oil companies out of business as produots from
coal come into the market. The oil companies are thus
faced with the problem of deciding whether to sell out
their businesses at once or to wait for a few years
longer to determine whether the Japanese venture in the
production of artificial gasoline will be successful.
The Embassy then recommends that in the light of the
Japanese Government's anparent determination to acquire
a degree of self-sufficiency in liquid fuels, the foreign
oil companies should formilate a definitive policy in
regard to the future of their trade in Japan. The
time appears to have passed for the oil companies to be
concerning themselves with minor difficulties encountered
by their trade.
894.6363/314
WM1
FE:WTT/DLY
m.m.N.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.97)
894.6363
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.6363 Manchur1a/204
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
894.6363/
Far Eastern Division
FROM
Ballantine
) DATEDApr11 15,1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
GPO
Standard-Vacuum Oil Compeny's claims in "Manchukuo" and status
REGARDING:
in Japan.
0.
Converaation of Messrs P.V. Parker and Marshall of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Co. with Messrs Hornbeck, Dooman, Vincent and Ballan
tine.
FRG.
315

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.92)
28-1
KLP
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokya
This telegram must be
Dated May 24, 1937.
closely paraphrased be-
fore-being communicated FROM
Reo'd. 9 a.m.
to anyone. (b)
Secretary of State,
11937
Washington.
partment of State
136, lMay 24, 7 p.m.
894.6.
894.6343
Embassy s 3, January 8, 7 p.m,
nou
On. The oil interests have been unable as yet to
895.6343
obtain a settloment of the Korean gasoline quota question
663
which they regard as a test case indicative of the treat.
ment which they may expect under the assurances given by
C
the Foreign Office in January last, At their last inter-
C:
view at the Foreign Office the Chief of the Bureau of
Commercial Affairs suggested that they compile a strongly
worded statement of their position for reference to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs and intimated that the
Foreign Office expected that inquiries would be mad by
G
the respective embassies on the subject. The Departmet
will therefore probably be approached by the Standerd
681
C3)
9
interests with a request that the Embassy make
representations requesting a settlement of the Korean
quota question in the light of the assurances referred to
above.
Two.
八

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.96)
28-2
一2-
136 May 24, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
Two. The assurances do not specifically refer to
Korea but the Foreign Office has never denied that Korea
is included therein. The Embassy therefore perceives
no reason hy such representations should not be made.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
ext of State
Washington,
1937 MAY 27 PM 5 20
May 27, 1937.
AMEMBASSY,
DIVIS0YOF
The le asnt in  Cd.
TOKYO (Japan).
It should dbe careiutly paraphraseg hgfere
73
316
boing commenicatee (e anyene.
Reference your 136 May 24, 7 p.m.
The Standard-Vaouum Oil Company'has informed the
Department that, in the event that the company does not
794.6343
receive an answer from the Foreign Offige this week in
ithe company/
rogard to the Korean oil quota problem, [it) and the inter-
894.6363/316
ested British' oil'company plan to 'submit'a statement' of
their bosition to the Foreign Office for reference to the
asked!
Minister for Foreign Affairs.' The company has requested
the Department to authorize the Embassy'to make representa-
tions to the Japanese Foreign Office in regard to settlement
of the Korean'oil quota question in the light of the
assurances' given by! the Foreign Office in January 'of this
Inasmuch as you state in paragraph two of your telegram
under reference that the Embassy perceives no reason' why
such representations should not be made, the Department
authorizes you to make representations and leaves 'to your
disoretion the form and manner in which they shall be made.
M..
19.
PRINTING OPVICE

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.92)
29-2
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
Washington,
- 2 -
This authorization is or course contingent upon the
British Embassy pese
hertsten to make similar
and bonourrent representations on behalf of the interested
British oil company
Please keep/the Department/informed by /telegraph with
regard to action you may take in the matter.
Weeees
stall
(Rm)
acluy
JCV
FE:JCV:EJL
OR
7 1937.PN
Enciphered by
M..
19.
1-1408
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.95)
Divl
FAR EAS EHMN AFFAIHS
26 BROADWAY
MAY 5 - 1937
PARIMENT OF STAI
NEW YORK
P. W. PARKER
1937 MAY 7 PM 2 04
RER
May 4th, 1937.
894.6363
DIVISION OF
COMMUNILATIONS
557
DCR
Dr. Stanfey K. Bórnbeck,
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I believe you will be interested in a cable
we received this morning from Yokohama which we quote in'part below:-
"Friends and we yesterday conveyed to Foreign Office
substance of your telegram No. 65 before which Embassy
89.4.
had verbally and informally suggested to Foreign Office
that we be allowed to continue to sell normally until
answer is received STOP During our interview Foreign
Office advised that they had officially telegraphed
6
to Korea authorities requesting that foreign companies
36
have permission to maintain sales pending answer to
their petition to which however no answer yet received
5
STOP We were further informed of proposed meeting to
hurry answer to Korea petition will convene May 6th
at which if impossible to reach final decision they
would in any case press for permission to allow us to
7
continue normal sales pending final answer.........."
This was in reply to our telegram of April 27th,
in which we suggested that the Japanese Government be advised
that as the Korean sales quotas would be practically exhausted
on May lst, and that since these quotas were arrived at to
provide for the output of liquefaction plants which have not
materialized, we assumed it would meet with the Government's
approval if we were to continue to sell at our normal rat
FILED
We considered these tactics preferable to merely requesting
the Government to allow us to maintain sales for we wished
to place with the Government the entire responsibility for
the next move.
(3)
9
The reply in itself is satisfactory and it
would appear that the Foreign Office are somewhat embarrassed
F/FG
by the lack of action on the part of the Korean authorities.
We now expect further advices following the pro-
posed meeting of May 6th, which we shall take pleasure in pass-
ing on to you.
With kind regards,
Sincerely,
P.A. Parb

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.95)
May 7 1937
Dear Mr. Parker:
The receipt is acknowledged with thanks of your
better of Mey 4, 1987, with regard to oil quetas in
Korea.
Your kindness in keeping us ourrently informed
894.6363/317
with regard to developments in the situation is appre-
eietéd.
Sincerely yours,
4
Stanloy K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
3
MAY 7 19573
F/FQ
JCV.
.m.A.

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
DER
RECEIVED
26 BROADWAY
MAY 1 1937
NEW YORK
DIVISION OF
W. PARKER
14 1938
May 1lth, 1937May
ackd
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
113/
Washington, D.C.
Department of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6363
In my letter of May 4th, I stated we would advise you
of the results of the May 6th meeting in regard to the Korean
situation.
note
We have received this morning a telegram from Yokohama
89,
which reads:-
895.6363
4
Foreign Office informed friends and us yesterday that as a
result of meeting departments concerned outlook definitely
363
optimistic and that final answer will be given week after
Korean Government representatives called to Tokyo STOP
They indicated that any consideration would be conditional
11
on our expediting complete arrangements with Mitsui to which
friends and we replied we were anxious to do so but first it
318
would be necessary to have discussion with Ministry of Com-
merce and obtain understanding that administrative practices
would be in keeping with assurances given through Foreign
Office as requested by London's telegram of Jan. 29th STOP
So far Korean authorities locally have refused request as per
our telegram on the ground that other suppliers in a position
to make good any shortage which might result through our cessa-
tion However Foreign Ofrice again have officially telegraphed
Korean authorities requesting them to allow us to continue to
maintain sales pending answer and final settlement and openly
hinted to us if wemerely continued normal deliveries Korean
Government generally cannot take effective action against us
J6 11939
but for present propose to continue to press request strongly
and not to exceed quotas without Korean authorities' under-
ILEI
standing SToP Friends have telegraphed London similarly."
The request mentioned in the above immediately follow-
ing the second "Stop", refers to a part of Yokohama's telegram of
May 4th, which we quoted in part in our letter of the same date to
you and which stated that the Foreign Office advised they had of-
8
ficially telegraphed to the Korean authorities requesting that the
foreign companies have permission to maintain sales pending an an-
swer to their petition.
F/FG

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeck.
May 11/37.
We should have further advices on this matter within
the next few days, at which time we shall be glad to again com-
municate with you.
With kind regards,
Sincerely,
PNParke

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.92)
May 14 1939
Dear Mr. Parker:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter or May ll,
1987, in regard to the Korean oil situation.
We are pleased to learn that developments appear to
be taking a favorable turn, and appreciate your kindness
in keeping us ourrently informed in regard to develop-
894.6363/318
monts in the situation.
Sincerely yours,
11
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
MAY 141937.PM
Stamdard-Vacuum Oil Company,
8
品
26 Broadway,
Now York, Now York.
he
m.m.1.
F/FG
PRhOV:EIL
5/14/37

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 26, 1937.
SKH:
Referonce Standard-Vacuum Oil Company's
letter of May 24.
With regard to the Manchurian oil situ-
atron, it is felt that a statement made to
Mr. Parker should be along the lines of the
memorandum of May 25 attached to Tokyo's
telegram No. 135, May 24, 6 p.m.
With regard to the Korean oil situa-
tion, it would appear that the oil companies
propose submitting a strongly worded state-
ment of their position to their respective
embassies for reference to the Japanese
Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that the
oil companies desire that the American and
British Embassies be instructed to make
representations to the Japanese Foreign Of-
fice "requesting speedy settlement of the
whole Korean problem in the light of the
assurances given by the Foreign Ofrice".
(The assurances referred to would appear
to be those given by the Japanese Foreign
Office last January to the effect that the
interests of the companies would be ac-
corded fair treatment and that previous as-
surances with regard to quotas, prices, and
stocks would be respected.)
Tokyo's telegram No. 136, May 24, 7 p.m.,
states that the "assurances" referred to
above

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
above do not specifically mention Korea but
that the Foreign Office has never denied
that Korea is included in the assurances.
The telegram further states that the Embassy
perceives no reason why representations re-
questing a settlement of the Korean quota
question should not be made.
It is felt that the Embassy should be
authorized to make representations along
the lines requested by the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company and that the form those repre-
sentations should take should be left to
the discretion of the Ambassador. Thes
representations of course would be contingent
upon the British Embassy making similar and
concurrent representations.
Mr. Parker requests that Mr. Hornbeck
discuss the matter with him over the tele-
phone, or, if Mr. Hornbeck considers it ad-
visable, Mr. Parker will come to Washington
for a discussion of the matter. It is be-
lieved that the matter may be satisfactorily
handled by telephone conversation with Mr.
Parker, inasmuch as the matter does not
call for extended explanation or discussion.
It is felt that drafting of a telegram
to Tokyo should await Mr. Hornbeck's con-
versation with Mr. Parker.
Ls
FEJCV:EJL

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.94)
DER
Ee
26 BROADWAY
NEW. YORKV:L
FARIMENT OF STAT
P. W. PARKER
L
May 24, 1937.
1937 MAY 26 AM 10 15
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
DIVISION OF
MAY 261937
B
46363
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affalts,
Departmeni of State
Department of State,
Weshington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6
We are quoting in full Yokohams 's telegram
of today:-
"Refer to our telegran No. 91 at interview Hsinking May 20th
Monopoly Bureau maintained stand law authorizes them to pay
C
9
only for physical property and that offer to buy supplies
C.I.F. which they stated wculd be confined to previously
C:
established companies constitutes satisfactory compensation
1
STOP However they went on to indicate possibility of settle-
C.
ment of balance our offer by other means and at subsequert
一
meeting Chief of General Affairs Bureau put forward suggestion
6
companies negotiεte with Monopoly sales of physical properties
only and accept under protest and. then press for payment
balance our offer through diplonatic channels SToP This sug-
gestion he considers only possible method of amicable settle-
ment and he states clearly in his opinion it coulc be arranged
in this way when a favorable opportunity offers but he implied
that it would be dependent on success of negotiations for
better relations between Manchukuo and Great Brituin and
United States SToP Friends Embasdles and ve are unanimously of
opinion that in view of this introduction of political fector
will be necessary for you and London to discuss with State
Department and Foreign Office before taking further action
here and in the meantime Consul Generals are not approaching
Hsinking authorities SToP Friends ere telegraphing London
similarly Since sending our telegram No. l0l Friends and we
have had two interviews with Foreign Office and the positon
is that while we have been promised as early as possible 
1
answer in regerd to whole Koree problem Foreign Office hag
1
not yet been able to obtain permission Korea Government t
G
AV
allow us in meantime to continue normal sales SToP We have
strongly emphasized that this refusal and continued delay
will result in our trade and customers being handed over to
other companies notwithstanding the fact that reductions in
our quota which puts us present position was made to make room
for substitutes which had not materialized and that this in
F
our opinion constitutes outright discrimination SToP Foreign
Office has therefore suggested in the event answer not received
G
early ths week that we submit strongly worded statement of our
position for reference to Minister of Foreign Affairs as they

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeck.
May 24/37.
then anticipate further inquiries will be made by Embassies
SToP American Embassy not in a position to go beyond in-
formal and verbal citation of above situatiun as representative
of difficulty we are having in btaining administrative action
to give effect to assurances but as Friends and we feel on
this occasion strunger action necessary we suggest that you
request W. shington t) telegraph instructions t, Embassy to make
representatlons requesting speedy settlement of whole Korea
problem in the light of assurances given by Foreign Office SToP
Friends advise their Embassy has the necessary authority STOP
Friends telegraphing London sixilarly."
of the two questiuns the most important is that of Korea
where we have had to suspend our gasoline trade as our quota has been
exhausted.
I an very much hoping you will heve en opportunity to re-
view this telegran as soon as possible and then yerhaps you will be kind
enough to discuss it with me over the telephune, or if you think more
advisable, I shall be pleased to come cown to Wushington.
N. Parke
Sincerely,

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
30-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely parophrased be-
fore being communicated
FROM
Dated June 1, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Recid 8 a.m.
Letter
Secretary of State,
Hadard
8946363
8x
Washington.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
894.6363/320
142, June 1, 5 p.m. /3/
June 4 1957
Department of State
Department's 73, May 27, 6 p.m.
Under date of May 29 the oil companies received
from the Forcign Office a fairly satisfactory reply in
the form of an aide memoire in regard to the Korean oil
quota problem and have referred the reply to their
principals for consideration. Under the circumstances
the Embassy does not consider it necessary at the present
juncture to take action under the Department's
authorization. The Standard interests concur in this
view.
u611939
GREW
FILED
RR:WWC
F/
G

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.94)
30-2
3/320
June 4 1957
 CCRIDETIAL
Bear Mr. Parker:
with reference to previous correspondenee and conversa-
sioms in regard to the Korean oil queta problem, the Depart-
mont has received a telegram, under date June 1, from our
894.63
Ambessador at Tokyo, whioh contains statements to the effeet
that the representetives of the interested oil compamies in
6363/320
Japan have reseived a reply of a fairly satisfactory eharas-
ter frem the Japanese Toreign Offiee and that the reply has
beem referred by them to their prineipals for censiéeration.
She Ambassador states that your representative in Japas con-
s in the Embessy's view that representations by the
Mmbassy to the Japanese Fereign Offiee in regard te the
aster umder referemee are net called for at this time.
It is requested that yeu treat the foregsing imfesme-
siem, and its soures, as strictly conridential.
Sineerely yours,
JUN 4 1937.
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chiof,
Divisien of Far Bastern Affairs.
A true copy of
the sigahd origi-
s/s/m
..

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.96)
ZE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 28, 1937.
Conversation:
894.6363
Mr. Vincent.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
notl
Subject: Korean oil quota problem.
JUN 5-1937
895.6363
Department of State
With reference to the long-distance telephone conver-
894.636
sation of May 27 between Mr. Parker of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company and officers of the Far Eastern Division (see
memorandum of conversation of May 27), Mr. Vincent called
33/
Mr. Parker by long-distance telephone at 9:30 this morning.
3
Mr. May of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company took the call,
2
explaining that Mr. Parker had been unexpectedly called
away from the office.
Mr. Vincent informed Lir. May of the substance of the
Department's telegram No. 73, May 27, 6 p.m.
9
Mr. May stated that Mr. Parker would be gratifiedto
learn that the Department had granted the company're
F
quest that our Ambassador at Tokyo be authorized to mare
representations to the Japanese Foreign Office in regard
to the Korean oil quota problem. He expressed appreciation
of our consideration in calling by telephone to inform the
F/G
company of the Department's action.
Jer m.m.H.
子
FE:JCV:EJL

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.95)
31-1
(0m)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
GRAY
1-1836
FRoMTokyo
Dated August 20, 1937
sito
Rec'd 10:05 a.m.
Division of
SEcrEtary of StatE,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A0G20 1937
Washington.
Department of State
894.6363/322
286, August 20, 5 p.m.
WE have received thE following letter dated yEsterday
844.6363
from British Comnercial Counsrlor:
"Today I recEived a call from i. Takeuchi ths hEad
of thE FuEl BurEau who camE to sEF mE at thE instancE of
ir. Yoshino, the Minister of Commeret.
ThE purposE of his visit is deseribed in hE following
mEssagE which We havE today telegrephed to the Foreign
Office.
'At thE instancE of thE Tinister of CommErcE thE hEad
UG1 1939
of thE Fuel Bureau called today upon thE CommErcial
FILED
Counselor to discuss the oil storagE obligations of thE
forcign companies.
IHE said that particularly in view of thE present
crisis it was Es:Ential to sEttlE this problem without
further dElay and bEgged Comnercial Counselor to press
the Ris ing Sun Company to comE to terms. Without bEing
specific he hinted that thE occasion was favorablE to
the companies and that the Fuel BurEau now having unified
F/G
control ovEr oil thEy could thE morE Easily sEcurE a
fair

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.94)
31-2
-2-
JR #/286, August 20, 5 p.m., from Tokyo.
fair share of natural increasE in tradE dEspitE the
hydrogenation program which Even at thE End of sEvEn yEars
would meet only 50% of demand.
ComnErcial Counselor is of opinion that thE companiEs
should respond to this overturE'.
I judgE from thE manner rather than thE matter of
eers
diecosse
Mr. Takeuchi's ( that thE companies ought to
respond to his cverturE. Thatever its object it is a
dEfinitE approach from thE JapanEsE sidE".
Standard Vacuum informs us that they havE cabled
information to New York and havE asked for instructions.
GREW
TIC:HPD
()Apntomisjion.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.95)
4ADeR
R. C. A. COMMUNICATIONS. INC.
894.6363/32
66 BR0AD STREET
NEW YORK
1938
DIVISION
W.A.WINTERBOTTOM
JF
NS
HA
A4.
DEPARTMENT OFSTATL
Apri1 6, 1928.
3
The Honorable Summer Welles,
4
Under-Secretary of State,
Washington, L.C.
My aear Mr. Welles,
I rather belatealy wish to thank you for your last
letter to me regaraing the situation in Shanghai in
connection with the promises of the Japanese to restore
as early as possible direct rauio communication between
Shanghai ana this country.
Service was interrupteu on January 5th ana so far
there are no signs of its restorution. I suppose there
is nothing further we can uo at the moment to hurry the
matter.
My Japanese corresponaent regularly keeps me
informed on radio developments in Japan, but his last
letter dealt wholly with the oil situation anu the new
government policies pertaining thereto, which are of
no particular interest to me. The general oil situation
is rather warm at the moment unu this authentic informa-
tion regaraing the new Japanese fuel policy may well be of
interest to some one in your Lepartment ana I, therefore,
turn the information over to you for what value it may
FILED
have.
With best regarus,
Sincerely yours,
Wavriberbottom

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
(3) R.-III. (MARCH)
JAPAN'S FUEL POLICY
As one of the effective means of consolidating Japan's
position on the long-term wartare, every efforts are being
made by Japan towardsexpanoion of productive power and
cconomization of domestic consumption. This is partioular-
ly the oase with oil the resouroos of whioh are so limited
in this country.
As Reflooted in Diet
It is only too natural under these ciroumstanoes,
that Diet disoussions should be conoentrated on the fuel
polioy of the state in no less degree than on the mobi-
lization ast, power control, and other mergency bills.
In the course of their statement in roply to inter-
pellations in the Diet, the government authorities con-
cemed made the following assurances in substance:
"It is a fact that Japan has tot a romarkably limi-
ted fuel resource, and therefore that she is in need of
oil importation in both time of peaoe and time of war.
"As for expansion of the mational produotive power
as the government's fuel polioy, the authorities are go-
ing to defrayproper expenditures during 1938 for exploi-
tation of oil fiolds at home, and for import of foreign
oll aveilable.
"In line with this Govemment polioy, the choson
oil company has decided to undertake experimental boring
of oil firlds in forea where such an attempt has hitherto
been neglected.In manchukuo, a semi-official oonoem
to be mown as the Manohu Liquid ruel Company will be
established with a oapital of 30, 000, 000 yen half of
whioh to be invested by the govemment of Japan. The
new company is to cooperate with the ruel Bureau and the
Imperial Fuel company of this country recently establish-
ed, towards development of the artifioial ola industry
the regulations goveming whioh has lately been promulgat-
ed.
"for economization of oil consumption at home here,

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
(3) R.-III. (MARCH)
the govemment is going to initiate the lioense mystem
for purohase of gasoline for automobiles use with effeot
from may 1 l938, the government expeoting to spare there-
by some 3, 000, J00 yen worth gasolime par annum.
As Refleoted in Budget
The estimates as made in the Budget for 1938 by the
govemment will also be suggestive of the positive polioy
the aithorities here are mploying for expansion and con-
trol of oil produotion in this country.
Apart from the direct military projeots regarding
oil, the following items in the Budget may be noted:
Artificial oil Laboratory
of the ruel Institute to
YEN
.. 570,000
be established
Experiment Rooms for the
. .. 303, 000
ruel Institute .
moreasing coal outputs .. .. .. 165,000
promoting liquid fuel
. .. .1, 861, 000
self-suffioienoy.
rxpdoiting Home oil
.. 1,016,000
esouroes
studying geologioal features
130,000
of oil fields
gubsidies to oil resources
.. .. 146, 000
development abroad..
Developing Artificial 0il mdus. 104,000
Experimenting industria-
lisation of synthetical
produotive process of arti-
8,000
ficial oil.
New researoh about oil.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
(4) R.-III. (MARCH)
Ad interim experiment of
heavy oil produotion .. ..
.. .. 118, 000
Experimental industrializa-
tion of dust-coal diosel
engine mamufaoture..
36,000
Ad interim experimental in-
dustrialisation of high-pressure
compound preceas of gluey fuel.. .. 60,000
rmorasing subsidies to
oil reservation.. ..
.. 717,000
gubsidies to the Imperial
ruel Industry company.. .. .. .. .5, 372, 000
Improving fuel administration .. .. 41, 000
Training coal miners
30,000
por ensuring betor control of oil resources and
industry in Japan, the govemment submitted to the
Diet in the ourrent session a bill of the oil Resources
Development Aot whivn has duly been passed by both
Houscs. The following is the regulations to be promul-
gated for enforcement of the aot in question:
Oil Resouroes Develop-
ing Aot
Art. 1. - The omers of the right to an industrial enter-
priees with oil as its objeotive, herein after to be called
oil enterprisers, are to fix their business sohemes to
report to the government in accordance with caverment
orders. The same proceedings are required for altera-
tion of suoh sohemes. The Govemmment might order chasge
of such schemes when that is deemed necessary for proteo-
tion of the national mining interest.
Art. 2. - The govemment may, within the soope of the
Budget, grant subsidies to oil easerprisers for experi-
mental boring of oil firlds.
Art. 3. - The government may, in accordance with orders

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.98)
(5) R.-III. (MARCH)
pecified, get payment of money corremponding to less than
2 of the value of the oil podeoed each year for the 5
years following the commenoement of oil produotion, from
those oil enterprisers who ege in oil production after
successful experimental bearing of oil fields with the sub-
sidies mentioned in the preceding artiole.
The locality ad depth of the oil fields mentioned
in the preceding artiole will be indioated by the govem-
ment.
Art. 4. - whoever is dissatisfied with the govemment in-
dioation mentioned in the second paragruph of the preceding
article may appeal to law.
Art. 5. - Any subsidies mentioned in Artiole 3, when ob-
tained through fraudulenoe, shall be refunded.
Art. 6. - The payment to the govemment mentioned in Art.
3 and In Art. 5 may be colleoted as when colleoting the
natiomal taxes in arrears. As regards the right of prece-
dence, suoh payment ranks second to direct national taxes.
Art. 7. - The govermment may order, when neceseary for
protooting national oil interest, a conference mong
oil mterpsisezs conceming the methods of developing
their oil resouroes development of other matters relative
to such development.
The oil enterprisers, when going to undertake boring
within 50 metres from the line bordering on other oil en-
terprisers' oil fields, should hold a due conference with
the latter segarding the location and depth of boring.
for the proteotion of the national oil interest.
The govemment might order modisioation of the agree-
ment reaohed at the above menteoned conference, whenever
such order is deemed necessary for promoting oil industry
or for protecting oil interest.
The Govemment may give a necessary secision for
enforoement by oil enterprisers in case their conference
montioned in the paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 fails to
resoh any agreement, or is not held or oannot be held.

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.98)
(6) R.-III. (MARCH)
Art. 8. - The govermuent, when necessary for developing
or recouroes, may order enterprisers concemed an experi-
mental boring or other necessary undertakiggs.
when the government ordered experimental boring in
accordance with the preceding artiole, subsidies mentioned
in Art. 2 would be granted.
Art. 9. - The govermment, when it is necessary for mili-
tary pur ose, may give neoessary orders to the oil enter-
prisore regarding the restriotion or remotion of oil pro-
duotion, in accordance with an Imperial ordinance.
The govemment pays compensation, in accordance with
an Imperial ordinance, against losses incurred by the
govemment orders given in aocordance with the preceding
paragraph.
Art. 10. - The government may either order the oil on-
terprisers to nake report on their business and financial
conditicns cr inspect their businoss bocks, papers and
other articles.
The government may give ordere or effeot disposal
of the business and finance of oil enterprisers whenever
it is deemed necessary for the purpose of superintendence.
Art. ll. - whcever comes under any of the following cate-
gories will be punished with a fine not excceding 5000 yen;
1. Those cil enterprisers who refuse the conference
specified in Art. 7, paragraph 2, or who gage in oil
production before any agreement is reached at the con-
goronoe.
3. Those who undertake oil produotion or experimental
boring either not in accordance with the decision made
in confomity to Art. 7, or in disregard of the orders
speoified in Art. 7 paragraph 3 and without altering the
decision made at the conference.
3. Those who violate orders given in accordance
with Art. 8, paragraph 1.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
(7) R. -III. (MAROH)
4. Those who violate orders given in accordance
with Ast. 9 paragraph 1.
Art. la. - whoever oomes under any of the following cate-
gories will be punished with a fine not exceeding 2000 yen:
Those who negleot report to the govermment on their
business schemes in violation of Art. 1 paragra 1, or
whoever fails to carry out the business sohemes reported
to the goverment.
3. Those who carried out their sohemes without
modifying them in disregard of the ordess issued in
accordance with Art. i paragaraph 2.
Art. 13. - whoever comes under any of the following cate-
gories will"be punished with a fine not exceeding 500 yen:
1. Those who neglect the report mentioned in Art. 10
paragraph 1, or who produces false reports.
3. Those who refuse, obstruct or avoid the inspection
specified in Art. 10, pamgraph 1.
3. Those who violate the orders or disposals speci-
fied in Art. 10, pammgraph 2.
Art. 14. - The juridical persons themselves will be
Jubjeot to punishment specified in the proceding three
acticles in case their representatives, agents or employees
commit violation of the rogulations.
supplementary Rule
The date for enforoement of the pzeeent refulations
will be fixed by an Imperial ordinance.

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.88)
April 19 1938.
 dear Mr. Winterbettem:
I wish to eekmowledge your letter of April 6,
894.6363/323
l9ss, emelesing a momerandum of information supplied
by yeur Japemese cerrespesdemt on Japan's fuel peliey.
the memerasé deale éth a subjeet of saterest
to the sapertuose and the eeurtesy mhich prempted you
to heing it to cur assemtiem is appreciated.
simeerely youre,
ouer Welles
Asting Seeretary.
...
T
York, Now Yorn.
A tru  copy of
FE
the
FE:JWB: NN/DT
7.261.
wom
'APR 19 1939.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
740.00379
FOR
Despatoh if299
894.636
FROM
Netherlands
Gordon
DATED
Apr11 28.1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
3
Petroleum- Japan. In the last month, Japan has inoreased
REGARDING:
3
her purchase of oil from the Netherlands enormously.
324
He also referred to the faot that in the last fow
months Japan has inoreased her purehases of oil from the
Netherlands enormously. He said that these purchases were
being made in order to oreate an important reserve stock.
Figures conoerning these shipments had, he added, been
communloated to the Netherlands Naval Attachd at hashington,
who in turn will undoubtedly brine them to the attention
of the interested Ameriean authorities.
3
2
fP
力

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
694.111/1
FOR__Report.#=
894.6363/
FROM
Osaka
(..Makinson....) DATED._Aug..1O..1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: American petrolewn in Japan.
The home petroleum production has in reoent
years been averaging about ten percent of the
325
nation's needs, leaving the remaining ninety
peroent to be purchased abroad, chiefly from
California, and other American shipping points.
rr

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.98)
MR. HORMBECK
MAR 9 -1939
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
SSPM
March 6, 1939
Tokyo's strictly confidential despatch
no. 3671 of February 14, 1939, reports con-
versations held by Mr. A. H. DeFriest of the
General Petroleum Corporation of California,
with representatives of the Mitsui interests,
Japanese business men, and Colonel Hori,
Army representative on the General Planning
Board, in charge of oil supplies.
The primary questions in which the repre-
sentatives of Mitsui and other business men
seemed interested were (a) probable effects
on Japan of the application of any neutrality
legislation enacted in the United States and
(b) the obtaining of credits in the United
States for exports to Japan, particularly for
o1l.
Colonel Hori indicated to Mr. DeFriest
the grave concern with which Japanese
authorities regard the question of new
neutrality legislation in the United States;
stated that another Panay incident might occur
at any time, an event which would bring about
new neutrality legislation which would have a
serious effect in Japan, particularly as oil
would undoubtedly be prohibited; asked whether
the California oil companies would fall in
with sanctions in case they became effective;
made

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
ade the contradictory remarks that Japan has
the ability to pay her way for a long time to
come, having plenty of gold, and that Japan 1s
short of money and needs to obtain credits
for from one to two years; claimed that
foreign rights in China would be respected;
then contradicted himself by saying that the
Japanese would take over the direction of the
oil market in China; and said that, in regard
to Japan, there would be further restrictions
there on the use by the public of petroleum
produots.
FE:Sal1Qury:HJN

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.96)
PALI
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 14, 1939.
No. 3671.
SUBJECT:
TRANSMITTIIG MMORANDUM OF REMARKS OF
MR. A. H. DeFRIEST, VICE PRESIDENT,
DIRECTCR OF SALES, GE ERAL PETROLEUM
CORPORATICN OF CALIFORNIA.
844.6363
894.6363/326
FE
894.2
711.90
ARS
894
STRICTIY CONFIDENTIAL
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OFICE OF THE ADSEA ON
MAR10199
OF STATE
ERNANAL ECONUIC AFFAR
H.F.
MAR14 1939
FILED
DVISE
MR. HORNBECK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MARH-1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
F/WB
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of
a memorandum of the remarks of Mr. A. H. De Friest,
Vice President, Director of Sales, General Petroleum
Corporation of California, who called at the Embassy
on February 8, 1939.
The

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The impression gathered by Mr. De Friest to the
effect that important Japanese business interests are
primarily interested in the application of any new neu-
trality legislation in the United States and the securing
of credits for exports from the United States to Japan,
as well as the statements of Colonel Hori, Japanese Army
representative on the General Planning Board are of par-
ticular interest.
Respectfully yours,
863.6
JFM:C
Joseph C. Grew.
y

=== Page 472 === (confidence 1.00)
Conversation
February 8, 1939.
Mr. A. H. DeFriest, Vice President,
Director of Sales, General Petroleum
Corporation of California, Los Angeles,
California.
Mr. De Friest, who called on the Ambassador today
by appointment, later called on me to explain the purposes
of his present visit to Japan.
Mr. De Friest stated that he had come to Japan on
the invitation of Mitsui and Company to his Company to
send a representative out to discuss matters in connection
with the importation of California oil into Japan. As
his Company is affiliated with the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company, which has large contracts with Japanese interests
and the Japanese Government, he was cautioned by his
superiors mostly to listen to what the Mitsui and other
interests, as well as Government representatives, might
have to say, and to be careful not to prejudice in any
way the established positicn of the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company.
During the past two or three days, Mr. De Friest had
talked with representatives of the Mitsui interests and
other important Japanese businessmen. The primary questions
in which they all seemed to be very much interested were
the probable effects on Japan of the application of any
new neutrality legislation enacted in the United States,
and the securing of credits in the United States for
exports to Japan, particularly for oil.
Mr. De Friest

=== Page 473 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Mr. De Friest went on to relate the substance of
a conversation he had yesterday afternoon with Colonel
Hori, Army representative on the General Planning Board,
in charge of oil supplies. Mr. De Friest stated that in
the beginning of the conversation Colonel Hori, who did
practically all of the talking, seemed particularly de-
sirous of impressing upon Mr. De Friest the determina-
tion of the Japanese to see the China Incident through,
and expressed the hope that r. De Friest would do what
he could to make this clear to those with whom he came
in contact on his return to America. Colonel Hori then
referred to the likelihood of ne neutrality legislation
being enacted in the United States and, according to Mr.
De Friest, clearly indicated that this question was a
matter of grave concern to the Japanese authorities. Mr.
De Friest said he was thereafter astounded to hear Colonel
Hori say that another PANAY incident, which, though it
would be purely accidental as had been the original one,
might occur at any time. Such an event would undoubtedly
bring about new neutrality legislation in the United States
which would have a most serious effect in Japan, particularly
as it would undoubtedly prohibit the shipment of American oil
to Japan. Colonel Hori went on to say that, should it come
to pass that moral sanctions against Japan became effeotive
through the concerted action of the American people, he
would like to know whether the California oil companies,
in view of their large business connections with Japan,
would go along with such sanctions or would endeavor to
ignore

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
ignore them.
Colonel Hori then referred to the question of credits
and stated that the working of the exchange control in Japan
had given the impression in some quarters that Japan was
unable to pay, lacked gold, and hence was a poor credit
risk. Colonel Hori stated that Japan had the ability to
pay her way for a long time to come and had plenty of
gold. On the other nand, without realizing the contra-
dictory nature of his statements, Colonel Hori said that
Japan was now short of money and that it would be necessary
to obtain credits of from one to two years, for which
every possible guarantee of payment could be produced,
to enable the carrying out of certain long-term projects.
Colonel Hori then went on to say that he could give
every assurance that foreign rights in China would be
respected, and he dwelt on this subject for some little
time. Mr. De Friest stated that he thereafter inquired
of Colonel Hori just what status the foreign oil companies
would have in China and was startled to hear Colonel Hori
advance an entirely contradictory theory, to the effect
that the Japanese would take over the airection of the oil
market in China. Colonel Hori said that it was useless,
until such time as the military situation was entirely
cleared up, to begin processing petroleum products in
China, as the direct import into China of the raw mater-
ials would to some extent betray their military positions,
but once military operations cease, the Japanese will
begin to install the necessary equipment to process the
raw materials and to assume the direction of the market.
Mr. De Friest

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Mr. De Friest then inquired concerning the situation
of the oil companies in Japan with respect to the future.
Colonel Hori said that there would be further restrictions
on the use by the public of petroleum products, particularly
oil and gasoline, and that such restrictions would be
continued for some time after the close of the China Incident.
He assured Mr. De Friest, however, that, even with de-
creased consumption and the likelihood of an increase in
local refining facilities, and particularly the use of the
hydrogenation process in the production of oil and gasoline,
the foreign oil companies would still have their proportion-
ate share in the raw materials imported.
J.. MCGTK.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTR1FU
b. In the past, there ls no iffioulty in obtaining
ores of alien origin nor any disadvantage from commercial
viewpoint for the se ores are rioh in guality and oheap in
priees giving larger prorits than domestic ores. Tayeh
and Taoohung on the Yangtze' alley and many mines in the
Straits ettlement deposit a vast quantity of rioh ores,
whioh may be transported to  an t a freight rate always
warranting sufficlent  r of rofit. hould w con-
tinue to de end on tes so r nder r oresent world
cirmstances
 ent rtui resr tht ritian which
has its hol upon the traits ettlements, may at any time
oblige the mup lir  s eir i m nts by raising
export tarifr r t or  surapan,  orefore, finds
itselr in n r carlons si ttion. It has to rind some other
resources ich are imune , forei n intentions. rirst
and foremost,  thoron - iar for iron sands and
poor re ret   in itn on domain. and
then li t potenti oni s i i nohoukuo, hina and
the outh ens u i oc utilizod to le utmost extent. c-
cordins to emerts, oti osits of magnetite, hema
tite nd limonite ioh re ork ble on e conmeroial basis
reach a totl of , 0 ons of hioh ,0 oo tons
of 1 iro wy be rerihe.  the supply will be com-
plotel exhausted in  r if incd t th present rate
of 3000 ons
r. f tis fact. there is no
alternativev
taken tr lend, but to
uttli  veoor ro ontent und iron sands
coIn thd r et, te iron ihes t ozen, ora ich
are owne  te itouvishi inhore t, promdse to be of an
immens. v 1ue. 1es ve   eoos1t of 400, 000.000
tons though eir iren ontent i roun 40 per cent on the
aver . hey   or ed orer lally by mmgnetie dres
sing. If they re  luitec on  1 rge soule. the result
will e a longte for ards towards the ultimate solution
of rapan's iron  n steel roblem. ron sands have been
discarled primril; ue to the re sence of titanium, an
obnoxious i urit/ nic ret ris the operations of blast
furnece, ae onl those mion ont in small uantity of
titanim have so far been rofined. nrortunately, no con-
petent ret od ns been develo ed  tre t iron sands. ut
efrorts shoulc b me to exploit nd ex  riment with them,
for the deoosits of iron sonde re mmorous tirou ont the
country. uin from he foregoin. it soems remature
to sey that the overnment plan Lready rurted re guite
compatible with the task or attaining self-sufficienoys
to iron and steel or of wetin the demand hich ill in-
orease more rn i ly in the future than t resont. e do
not fail to take aocount of the increased production of
pig iron in .anohoukuo, but  consider blc ortion of the
inorease must be consuned within tht country instea of
exporting it to Japan.
From: / Tokyo.
Report o. 8485
at. 19, 1936.
- 2 -
RESTRICTED

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.91)
REST
3.
Pig Iron and orap Iron.
orap iron vonsum tion has inore se rapidly in re-
oent years, but the looal output is only trirlin and the
balk of annual demand has been i orted from the mited
states. merican supoly, hosever, is no guarantee for a
permanent ana shun  nt souree, for its o.t consumption
is mo inti n sone of  ts
livicins re vountin the
restrietionofit
rt: of sorap iron
veve ! ere oed
S Dr er:
ucitity
Value in
in tons
Yen
1::9
11,04,000
1
171
11
7,321,000
1.
10,304.000
1
1.5
844,000
1.4
55,730,000
1.00
1.
84.225,000
Imports of 
aost tilly if
propercas
cn.
l is i merotive
to bloii
cuc n extent
thet they
10
bEva11-
ablevithin
I ilities thus
resultioioiilland the
steel 1ot to  n le
eron iron
ores by he s b tr t is for
this reson t e tove nt 1 n o ve the ippon
Iron amufactri: on ay
nd ingot oapacity and ha
deoided alread to permt  ol st furnaces for other
stoel producers.hese pri i les ill certainly reduoe
sorap imports, and on the contrary inoreuse the consump-
tion or pig iron undoubtedly e ond the combined capacity
of the existing bl st fure  rators.
b. The demand and muy
i; iron in recent vears
are snown below in terms or ,
ctrie tons:
100
15
1934
1935
Output by:
Nippon 1ron f. o. -- 1,091
1.497
1,856
2,001
Other Firms
82
101
83
110
Total Output
———_—
1.175
1,598
1,939
2,111
Imports from:
Manohoukuo
329
461
418
392
India andthers
122
187
204
579
Total Imports ----
451
648
622
971
To tal Demand
1,624
2,246
2,562
3,082
From: M/A. Tokyo.
Report to. 8485
Oot. 19, 1936.
- 3 -
RESTRICTED

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
 Sinoe the beginnin of this yar, the smand for
pig iron has been swelling at an amazing puce and the
failure to satisry the demand has completely upset the
normal position of supply. The result is hat is often
referred to as pig famine. uring the first  uarter of
the year, the ceman of 150,oc tons vas barely supplied
by the 1ppon Tron and from the stocks of the oo-operative
sales comnany, but during the second uerter mupply short-
age reached 44, 000 tons. he f1 re there ed to some
100 c00 un   hir orr, 1le it 1s xected to
run into l, or 0 tonsri he lest uarter
of the y ur. n whe nantity or srply short e is more
likely to there se th ecre se in the future.
d. The "famiue" is attributable to the ono lization of
The rket by the 1 on ron auufaet1 s ompany. In
1935, 1t pro nced m, o0c os i the form of pig,
or 95 per cent of the total out it, but the roter part
of it was consumed by the so pany itself und the portion
whieh was supplied to other steel pro ucers was only a
fraotion of 1ts output. on the other hand, the imports
of Manohouuo p1 iron,  ich totalled some 4 c,0oo to na
annually in thest,   suddenly nd ill fall
off robably to  , t ms t is year. for it is con-
verted into steel by v ho teel orks, a native con-
cern wich oenced ortion Two earso.
. It is forelorn lone  roun
sound steel industry
unless surficient voiunt 1i iron is pro uoed within
the country. The i pon ron anufucturing ompany has
laid down an ambitious lan to i  orense the output of
ig iron nd steel li ot, iu 1s soheduled to be fully
completed by the firt 1f of l94l; and the f1rst and
second parts of the  ro ect, capable of 600, 000 tons of
pig iron annually, will be ready for oneration towords
the end of next year. ther firms, suoh s the Nippon
teel Tubi ; and Asano, re also i proving facilities and
buildin: new furnaces. And the ny ill eventually come
when the looal emand will be et in its ontirety by local
firms, but s yet one cannot tell vhen the anohurian.
Indian an oviet  1; iron may be coanlotely 1sn nsed
with.
I. ven ranting that 1g iron produotion may be abreast
with demand, the problem of essential importanoe is how to
got iron ores necessary for the pig iron production. In
1935, the output of ores reached 533,000 tons 1n all. ut
this is only 3 per cent of the quantity oonsumed in that
year, and even in 1934 looal output was practically 16
per cent of the ores consumed.
From: W/A. Tokyo.
Report No. 8485
Oot. 19, 1936.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
Stoel.
The following table shows the emand and supply
of rolled steels in the last  wo years:
1934
1935
uantityatio
dantrty
RatioIn-
in etric
gainst
in Metric
gainst crease
ons
emend
Tons
emand Over
1934 1n
Output by:
Tons
M1ppon iron f. co.
In Japan roper ----1.428,400
43
1,569,100
42
140.700
Karea -
21,600
1
51,800
1
30,200
To ta1 -------1,450,000
44
1.6℃,900
43
170,900
ther irms in
Japen 7oper -------1.394.300
57
2242600
60
348.300
To tal utput
-———-3.344,300
101
3,863,500
103
519.200
Imports to:
Japan roper
370,600
11
1.00
8
54,600*
Korea --
1,000
0
2,100
1
1,100
Tormosa
2.300
0
1,400
0
900*
otal [mports
173.900
19.500
9
54,400*
PTAL UP LY
3.719.200
11
183.000
112
464.800
xports from:
Japan
roper
364.900
11
99.200
11
34,500
Korea
36,400
1
51,400
1
15,000
Formosa
100
C
200
0
100
Total xports
401.400
12
450,800
12
49,400
xport xcess
27,500
9
151,300
4
100,500
NET P AND
3,316,800
100
3.732,200
100
415,400
(The above fi gures are oted rom the publioation of the
Nippon Iron Tg. omoany.
sterisks (*) indicate decrease.)
b. Rolled steel output, whiol e ched 1, 920, 000 tons 1n
T931, has been on a steady inere se anc registered
3.860,000 tons in 1935, wh1ch 1s larger by 520,000 tons
over the previous year. Consequently, imports have been
decreasing gr dually while exports have been inereasing
year after year, and the latter heve outgrowm the former
sinee 1934, w1th an exoess export of 27,500 tons 1n 1934
and no less than 131,300 tons in 1935. 1t 1s a romark-
able feot that Japan, despite its limited resouroes of iron
ores, is selling its rolled steels abroad more than it buys
from foreign countries. As far as rolled steels are con-
cermed, therefore, Japan is already completely independent
from outside supply.
From: M/A. Tokyo.
Report o. 8485
Oct. 19, 1936.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.87)
RESTRICTED
Q. But the local utput of  ig, ores and scrap iron 1s
hort of consumnt on, n? far short in the cuse of the
last. pen hearth es been thes cormon rotice since the
inception of steel in u try in apn and is still the
propondorant f ctor for pro ucing steel iugot, and there-
fore the consum tion of orap iron is remendous, total-
11n 2.538, 00 tons last yonr. onsmm tion of various
rew viteriels, wecor i e the lie ion of the in
1 t
us
: (In tons
1933
194
fron
S—————
2.380.855
,842,209
16 ron ——————
1,587,275
1,876,430
cr 1on -——- 1,900,81
2,538,262
ronls———
1,741
1,626
5.
llie
jor 
oern of the
sersbeen d
vanced by theit or ti
1 mtr1 11t 11 1min
at securi
rot clr-ufi o s to i iron
and steel. he  er e  m stry inm: try is orionsly
conceritnle
s recently ublisned its
policy lct 
follo 1.
ints:
(1) he y
 r tay on its for
er motie
ronco
utacturin o pany
al1
 t furinces. but
sill in  tr  sem  rivi ee to all
other Pir. to o Purther ereourement ill
beade 
tsieri the1on Tron
the loverr nt l o tinue su ortin: the iopon
ron to tnn t tmee in the
1
(2)
)five-year pror ill e arried out by the
sprin of l94l so t uit the o tput of rolled steels
nay ench 5, 0,0  and that of teel ingot 6,0 0, 000
tons r nnum. or this ur se, the ippon iron
will build pew blast furn ces capablo or turning out
0 0, 0 tons of 1 iron onmaily.
(5) ncourage et i11 be ive for rof1 ing of poor
rade ores from ozum, orea, n or iron sands from
any rts of Tapan.
(4) he Iron anulactiring noourargement aw will be
revised, raising drastioally the minimm capaoity
eligible for Govornment enoouragement, and at the
same time the covernm nt ill consider a license sys-
tem anlioable to this industry.
(5) A new organ 1ll be launohed to control produo-
tion an sales of iron and steel.
The Government thus plans to attain the eventual
self-sufrioienoy as to pig iron and steel.
Sourees: Diamond of 0ot. 1, 1936.
Bureau of Mining.
William C. Crame,
Liout. Colomel,F.A.,(DOL),
RESTRICTED
Military Attaohe.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.34/238
FOR
letter
Great Britain
FROM
Johnson
DATED
Feb. 6, 1939.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.6363/ 327
REGARDING:
Supplies of oil for Japan:
Encloses copy of confidential memorandun
regarding conversation as reported by Lord
Bearsted, between Japanese Ambassador and
Lord Bearsted, regarding -.
aa
327

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.95)
LEBAL ADVISER
11939
FA
LAW OFFICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TERRY. CAVIN & MILLS
BALLINGER MILLSA1
FOHEIGN
O.B. WIGLEY
GALVESTON.TEXAS
G. B. ROSS
Fee
RUPERT R. HARKRIDER
V. WATKINS
M9599APR 21 11 9 29
April 18, 1939.
139
Letter
Jerry!
fa:
Department of Stote,
Washington, D. C.
894.6363
Gentlemen:
29
The Department of Cormerce has furnished us with a
copy of the following document: "Excerpt from Consular Report
894.63
No. 734 (Bureau No. 13973), dated april 5, 1934, Tokyo, Japan,
from American Consul Joseph C. Grewn, pertaining to the"oil
Industry Law" of Japan.
We desire to obtain an authenticated copy of such law
6363/32
to be used in the trial of a lawsuit which will shortly be called
for triel in the Federal Courts of the United States. Section
695(e) of Title 28, U. S. Code, provides that a copy of any
foreign document of record or on file in a public office of a
foreign country, certified by the lawful custodin of such
2
document shell be edmissible in any court of the United States
C3
when authenticated by a certificate of a consular officer of the
United States, resident in such foreign country, under the seal
of his office certifying that the copy of such foreign document
has been certified by the lawful custodian thereof.
It will be greatly appreciated if you will furnish us
with a copy of the Oil Industry Law referred to and will advise
us the proper method to go about procuring an authenticated
copy of it as required by Section 695(e), above referred to,
for use in evidence in the trial of our case.
Vepy truly yours,
Tirr, P'arin's Mills
RRH-EH

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF POREIGN AND DOMESTIC COM MERCE
RECEIVEL
WASHINGTON
ATH
April 27, 1939
1939 APR 23 AM 10 29
PUHBIGN
EN REPL
Department of State,
Washington,
D. O.
STATE
Gentlemen!
The attached letter is respectfully referred to the above-mentioned
has
office for attention. The writer
been advised of this reference.
rhills
6666666
139
Division of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
1-193
n. H.
SGLE
XXXXXXXXX00ga,
Department of State
ACTG. Director.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.97)
LAW OFFICES
TERRY. CAVIN & MILLS
WILLS
GALVESTON.TEXAS
ERT R. HARKRIDER
April 18, 1939.
WATKINS MC LEOD
1039
Mr. Paul L. Hopper,
Fuels Section, Metals and Minerals Division,
Department of Commerce,
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce,
FW 894.6363/3
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
This is in reply to your letter of April 1, 1939, re-
questing reference to your Number B2f".
We are interested in obtaining an authenticeted copy
of the oil control law, excerpts of which were included in
Consular Report No. 734 (Bureau No. 13973), dated april 5,
1934, Tokyo, Japan, from merican Consul Joseph C. Grew.
3
It would be greatly appreciated if you can refer us
2
to the proper person with whom to take this matter up. We
8
assume that such person will be in the State Depertment but
are not sure as to this. Section 695(e) of Titie 28, U. S.
Code, provides that a copy of any foreign document of record
or on file in a public office of a foreign country, certified
by the lawful custodian of such document shall be admissible
in any court of the United States when authenticated by a
FW894.6363/325
certificate of a consular officer of the United States, resi-
dent in such foreign country, under the seal of his office
certifying that the copy of such foreign document has been
certified by the lawful custodian thereof.
Any assistence that you may be able to render us
in advising us how to go about procuring this authenticated
copy will be greatly appreciated.
Very truly yours,.
F/WB
RRH-EH
RECEIVED
BUREAU OF F
METALS D
APR 21 1

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.92)
May 4 1989
328
Torry, Gavin & Mille,
Salvesson, Texms.
SAPO:
I have reeeived for attentien, by referenoe from
894.6363/32
the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commeroe, Department
ef Gemmeree, your lotter of April 18, 1939 adaressed to
M. Paml L. Nepper of that Bureau relating to your de-
sare te ebtain an authenticated copy of the "Oil Induetry
Law" of Japan.
Deubsless you have received by this time the Depass
8
ment's letter en this subjeet of April 29, 1929 in reapemse
to yours of April 18.
Very traly yours,
For the seeretary of state:
Nathaniel P. Davis
AR
Ghief, mvisten ef
Foreign Serviee Lémini stratien
MAY 3 939
MAY 4 1939
A true copy of
FE
the signe or
gno
72
nal.

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.95)
April 29 1939
Torry, Cavin and Mille,
Galvesten, Texas.
sire:
The reeeipt is acknowledged of your letter under
date of April 18, 1939 in which you request that you be
894.6363/328
furnished with a eopy of the "Oil Industry Law" of Japan
and be advised as to the procedure for obtaiaing an
authentieated copy of that law for use in the trial of a
lawsuit in the Federal courts.
The law in question was promulgated on Maroh 28, 1934
in the Offlalal Gasette published by the Japanese Govern-
ment in the Japanese language. The text accompanying
Geasular Repert No. 734 referred to in your letter is an
infermal and umofficial translation into English of the
Law muhmisted by the Ameriean Eabassy at Tokye.
with regard to the question of ebtaining an authenti-
F/F
eated eepy of the Japanese law, it is suggested that yeu
G
commumieate with the Ameriean Consul General at Tokyo,
dapan, and that yom previde him with a detailed statement
of your requiroments similar te that contained in your
Lester

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.88)
-
er ledt.
 It io aset that ao Japanese Lave are ta the Japenese
Samgnge, yeu mey require a svore treselatien thereef. If
s», year purpese in that reapest might be served by ask-
Ing the Ameriemm Gonsul General at Tokye to enéeavor to
arrange to have some competemt translator prepare a trams-
Laties of the law and to swear to the correetmess of the
tramslation before an Ameriean consular officer. The com-
sular fee for admimistering an cath 1s $2.00 in Ameriean
ourremey whieh you should remit to the Gonsul Gemeral for
this parpese. The Department does not know what the cost
of the translatlen might be, but it 1s suggested that the
swm of $ss.00 may be suffielent to cover the costs imvelved.
Momey may be sent to the Comsul General in the form of an
Intermational money order or of a bank drart on New York
is dellars. Any unerpended balance of your remittance
will, ef eourse, be returned to you.
he Depertment has taken pleasure in sending coples
of the eerreapondence on this case to the American Eabassy
at Tekge with the request to render such assistasee in this
ease as may be mesessary.
Very traly yours,
ned orig
For the Seeretary of state:
APR 29 1939 FM
the
nal.
Nathamiel P. avis
Gief, Bivisien of
108
Poreign Servise Aéninictration
Le
2mB
wer

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.91)
April 29 1939
n.1715
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokye.
The Besretary of state eneleses a eopy of a letter
894.6363/
from Terry, Gavin and Mills, attorneys, Galvestom, Tezas,
ia whish they request to be supplied with an authenticated
eepy ef the "Oil Industry Law" of Japan for use in the
Federal Geurts. There also is enelosed a eopy of the
328
Department's response threto.
The Ambassador will please extend to the Consul General
at Tekye any assistance 1n this case that may be deemed
mesessary. In this coaneetion referenee is made to des-
pateh me. 2749 of Jamuary 29, 1938 from the Bmbassy relat-
sng to the cersifleatiom of foreign publie desuments. The
Bapartment will be glad te be infermed partieularly whether
the fellowing statement appearing therein applies to re-
Geests fer certified coples of the lawe of Japan:
whenever a eeasular offieer ls peo-
81.04500
sented a doeument purporting to be a certified
re m be in n form as to provide baste
2.3

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.86)
In peserd for certirseatlen by the consular of-
fieer in the emset werds ef the legislatien,
withont the qualifieation 'on iaformation and
belier'."
Emelesures:
1. Frem Terry, Cavin and
Mills, Aprii 18, 1939.
2. Gepy of response therete.
094.6363/328
the s
nal.
PAIGASIEJF:SS
PAIGASIN
/28/39
PL128
Le
Jub
weN
29 2039 ?

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIYED
I':
AC
This tElegram must bE
Tokyo
closEly paraphrased bE-
FROM
§/2
forE bEing communicated
DatEd JunE 28, 1939
to anyonE. (Br)
JUL101939
Wash. ngton
DEPARTMENT OF STE
301, unE 28, 5 p.m.
894.6363
E Standard Vacuum Oil Co ipany has tElEgraphEd
its NEw ork officE information rEcEivEd from rEliabE
894.6363/329
confidEn nl sourcEs regardin a plan of thE JapanEsE
GovErnmEn: to EnforcE complEtE control of distribution
and salEs of pEtrolEum products n Japan proper. PhE
NE Xork officE will acquaint thE DEnartmEnt with thE
particulars as furnished by thE company hErE.
DOOMAN
KLP
FILFD
F/FG

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIUENTIAL
LALALLLALE
A tolegrem (me. 301) ef Jume 20, 1930, frem the Amer-
1ean Babasey at Tokye reads substantially as folless:
The New Iork offiee of the Standard Vacuum 01l
Cempamy will imform the Department of the partieulars
which it has reseived frem its offiee in Tokyo in regard
to a Japemese Gevermment plan to enforse absolte contrel
in Japan proper of the distribution and sale of petrolem
prodmets. This informatien was received confidentially
by the Tekye office of the oil company from reliable
soarees.
004.000s/a00
e9s
FEIEOCIHJN
7/6
FE

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.93)
BCR
EA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LCEIVED
LAFTMEN
1939 JL 5 AN 9 57
DATE: June 28, 1939
SUBJECT:
Proposed Japanese Government Control of the Distribution
and Sales of Retroleum Produots in Japan.
…LURDS
PARTICIPANTS:
Kersey F. Coe, Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, New York
Mr. Mackay
4
COPIES TO:
A
894.6363/330
OFICE OF HE MOVISER ON
AFA
744.6363
GLJUL-0X1939 HF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1-1408
Mr. Coe telephoned from New York and inquired
whether the Department had received from the American
Embassy at Tokyo a telegram in regard to a reported plan
of the Japanese Government which would effect complete
control of the distribution and sales of petroleum
produots in Japan. Mr. Mackay replied that suoh a tele-
gram had been received under date June 28 but that it
contained no details as the Embassy had been given to
understand that partioulars had been telegraphed by the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company in Japan to its New York
office and that the New York offioe would in turn in-
form the Department in regard thereto.
Mr. Coe
E
A

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Mr. Coe said that the Embassy's understanding of
the situation is correct; that the details of the plan
and its ramifications are so complex that it may be a
matter of several days before the Standard-Vacuum O1l
Company is in position to make a lucid report to the
Department but that as soon as possible such a report
will be made. Mr. Coe indicated that at least for the
present no assistance on the part of the Department is
desired.
m.mN
FE:RCM:HJM

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.86)
F4:Room
158
RAMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
7/18
FR：
DcR ha
juet sent the
file in thins case
atloot it heunirth.
L08
Folefs (Slungin

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.82)
ENT OF STATE
7/0789
FE.
Vhe pre-
DcR dy
vious are harges to
yon.
on to feaqquet the actin?

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.89)
RECORD OF PREVIOUS
PREVIOUS ATTACHED
PREVIOUS TALLIED
FE 2ali
PREVIOUS CHARGED
PREVIOUS INDEXED UNDER
814.67632.22

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
Frl
JUL 24 633
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Div
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF THE
1213
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Department of State
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 13, 1939.
20 1939
NO. 3964
July
SUBJECT:
CERTIFICATIOL. OF JAPA ESE LANS.
mills
53
894.6363/331
r
7.1
2
lid
150
1939  10
C
R
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
3
The Embassy has received the Department's instruct
SR
no. 1715, April 29, 1939 (894.6363/328), with regarto
3
9
communication between the Derartment and Terry, Cavin and
Mills, attorneys, Galveston, Texas, on the subject of
obtaining, for use in the Federal courts, an authenticated
F/A
copy of the oil industry law of Japan of March 28, 1934.
The Embassy immediately conmunicated with the Consul General
and learns from him that he has not yet been approached
by Terry, Cavin and Mills in the matter.
In

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
In the course of the instruction the Department
states that it will be glad to be informed whether, in
the matter of requests for certified copies of the laws
of Jaian, a consular officer has at his disposal a
procedure by which he can, as a condition precedent to
certifying, require the filing of a supplementary
certification from a Japanese official over a seal known
to him. There are various Japanese officials who are
authorized to certify that given documents in Japanese
offered to their inspection are or are not among the laws
of Japan; and an American consular officer would be in
position to authenticate (directly or upon further proof)
the seal and capacity of the certifying Japanese official.
A firm of lawyers wnich is familiar with the procedure,
having obtaining certified copies of laws required in
connection with the issue of bonds in the United States,
is McIvor, Kauffman, Smith and Yamamoto, 12 Naka-dori,
Marunouchi, Kojimaci-ku, Tokyo. On telegraphic instruction
from the Department that Terry, Cavin and Mills so desire,
the Eabassy will be glad to arrange f e obtaining of
a certified copy of the oil industry law of 1934 through
McIvor, Kauffman, Smith and Ya amoto. The same firm is in
position to make sworn translation into English. The
Embassy's previous experience with the firm is that its
charges are not unreasonable.
Respectfullyyours,
lesque . Doomay
Eugene H. Dooman
Chargé d'Affaires, a. i.
863.6
CC:am

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.96)
July 20 1989
Torry, Cavin and Mills,
Galveston, Texas.
sirs!
Referemee is mmde to the Department's letter of
894.6363/33
April 29, 1939 relating to your desire to obtain a copy
of the "Oil Industry Law" of Japan.
In a despateh from the Amerioan Imbassy at Tokyo,
it is stated that the Amerioan Consul General at Tokyo
has received from you no oommunication on this subjeot.
For your additional information, : may say that the
despatoh states further that a firm of lawyers whioh is
familiar with the procedure, having obtained certified
coples of certain laws, is MoIvor, Kauffman, Smith and
Yamamoto, 12 Naka-dori, Marunouch1, Kojimaahi-ku, Tokyo.
It is added that the Embassy will be glad to arrange for
the obtaining of a certified copy of the oll industry law
of 1934 through the lawyers; and that the law firm is in
a position to make sworn translations into English. The
Imbassy indioates that, in its previous dealings with the
above-named firm, it has found its oharges not unreasonable.
Should
7
A1

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
mould you desire to send funde to the tmbassy to
eever the eests in this ease, your attentien is lnvited
to the suggestien contained in the ultimate paragraph
of the Department's letter of April 29.
The Embassy may be addressed as follews: "The Ameri-
ean Mmhassy, Tokye, Japan".
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Nathaniel P. Davis,
Chief, Divisiom of
Foreign Service Administration
FE
FA:GAS:RM
priti
7/19/39

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.82)
STANDARD-VACUUM QILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
July 5, 1939
239
25
Hhefaly tras ted
July
Mr. Max ell . Hoto
74.6363
chir, ivi: .
St venm tment
W,
Jul 8
894.6363/332
1:1. t.
Pron
hen
peopinni
reprerenteive or or co  e upou yor in
comeetion vit
are acain beir thr te b o ern nt setion.
Vequit
an
wic reonb
arei
1itbco
in thebe1tn to
definite iey, in  evt
appointmert
matter.
incoly you
P. N.Park
PVP:H
F/WB

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.92)
July 8 1989
My dear Mr. Parker:
I have received your letter of July 5, l939, stating
that, after fermalating a definite poliey in regard to
your affairs in Japan, whieh are again being threatemed
894.6363/332
 Government ection, you intend to call on Mr. Hornbeek
and me to diseuss those affairs. You state that you
hope to arrive at a definite poliey at some time during
the week beginning July 17.
Mr. Hornbeok 1s at present on vaoation but expeets
to returm to Washington about July 24. we shall, of
course, be glad to see you at suoh time as may be con-
venient.
Sineerely yours,
3.2.H.
Maxwell M. Namilten
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Mr. P. W. Parker.
Standare-Vaowam C11 Cempany,
26 Breaémmy.
OR lve
New Yerk, New Yerk.
nal.
JUL 8 1935 P
B

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
July 20, 1939
NEW YORK
Cack'd
 22 939
ch
Mr. Maxwell H. Hamilton
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
State Department
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Hamilton:
Referring to my letter of July 5th,
the situation still remains about as when I wrote you.
94.634
The Japanese Government still has not advised the
foreign companies what their fate is to be under the
894.6363
new petroleum regulations. We are only today author-
izing our representative to go to the Government and
inquire what they expect us to do. Therefore it will not
be possible for us to formulate any ideas to discuss
with you people until we have heard further from Yoko-
hama. I hope this will develop promptly within the
next week and that we may then get in touch with you.
If it does I shall be very grateful.
Sincerely yours
P.N. tarke
PWP:H
FILET

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.91)
Maly 22 1939
My dear Mr. Parker:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
July 80, 1939, 1n whioh you state that the situation
in regard to your affairs in Japan remains about as it
was whem you wrote on July 5 and that it has not been
possible as yet for you to formulate any defimite ideas
894.6363/333
for diseussion with the Department in conneetion with
those affairs.
As stated in my letter to you of July 8, we shall,
of course, be glad to see you at such time as may be
convenient.
Sincerely yours,
M.WH.
Maxwell M. Hamilten
Chier
F
Divisien of Far Eastern Affairs
Mr. P. W. Pasker,
Standard-Vaeuum Oll Compamy,
s6 Breatway,
Now York, Now York.
true copy
JUL 22192
esgn
Jn
nal.
E.9.C.
FB:hSG:JPS

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.93)
FA
Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe Railway Company
Divinion of
Fe
LAW DEPARTMENT
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS
B
TERRY, CAVIN & MILLS.
Gemeral Attormeys
-1934
RUPERT R. HARKRIDER.
V. WATKINS McLEOD.
Department of State
Attorneys
1949
Galveston, Texas. July 29,1939.
PM 2 01
 .
Sonken-Gt lunbe v. AloSF, et ai
No
08
1939
Lr. Nethaniel r. Davis,
Chief, Division of oreign Service Administration,
Department of State, Of the United ~tates,
Hashin ton, L. C.
Dear Sir:
894.6363/334
Flease sec your letter or July 20, your
FA 894.6363/331. relatin to our attem t to obte in
a copy of the Oil Industry Law of Japan in connection
with the cartioned suit, penuine in the Federel Court
εt Kansas City, end for Which ve thank you.
The Dante Fe Railvay, tnc other defendents,
in the clove suit, heve om loyeu Lr. Jumes lee Keuffmen
of the Tokyo firm of McIvor, Heuffman, Smith & Yememoto.
Your assistance in these metters is erestly
eppreciated.
Truly yours,
GBR-LD
39
lovin Mae
A1

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
139
DEPARTMEN OF
AMERICAN EMBASSY
ISTANT SECRETARY
AUG
OF STATE
Tokyo, July 8, 1939.
No. 4023
SUBJECT:
SYNTHETIC PETROLEUM PROCESSES IN JAPAN.
A-M/C
PECOL
ONI
9746
39  2 48
M.D
q11ne
OFFICE OF THE ADS
94.6363/335
INTERNATIONAL 
AUG181939
AUS
DEPARTMCH OT SATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
F
Sir:
F/A
I have the honor to bring to the Department's
1/
attention an article which recently appeared in a
propaganda publication in Japan on the subject of
progress made in the production of synthetio petroleum
in this country. The article makes a number of ex-
travagant claims and no doubt is not correct in all
details, but nevertheless some points in it appear
worth recording for reference.
According

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
According to the article the oldest method of syn-
thetio petroleum production used in Japan is the low
temperature carbonization of coal method which is now
widely employed with increasingly satisfactory results.
Among the collieries enumerated as using this method are
Eian in Chosen, Uchihoro in Karafuto, Wanishi in the
Hokkaido, and Ube in Yamaguchi Prefecture. This process
it is stated has amply proved its superior efficiency.
The second method is the direct liquefaction of coal,
or hydrogenation (the adding of hydrogen to coal to bring
it to the composition of petroleum). It is stated that
under this process two plants were completed last year and
brought into operation, one at Agochi in Chosen under the
joint management of the Japanese Navy and the Chosen Nitrogenous
Manufacturing Company, and one at Fushun in Manchuria under
the joint management of the Japanese Navy and the South Man-
churia Railway Company. The Agochi factory was installed with
Japanese equipment which developed certain cons truotional
defects, the readjustment of which is not yet completed.
The Chosen Nitrogenous Company is said to have decided to
expand its plant at Agochi on a large scale and to erect
another large plant in Manchuria.
A process which combines certain features of the two
methods already cited is the hydrogenation of tar obtained
from low temperature carbonization. For this process a
plant has been constructed at Szepingkai in Manchuria, and
similar plants are under construction in Kawasaki by the
Nihon Yuka Kogyo Company, in Nagoya by the Tobo Kagaku
Kogyo Company, and in Wakamatsu by the Nissan Yekitai
Nenryo Company.
The

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The remaining method employed is the producing of
petroleum by a synthetic process from coal which has been
converted into a gaseous state, a process practiced in
Germany and known there as the Fischer method. The Mitsui
Bussan Kaisha, according to the article, is constructing
a plant at Miike in Kyushu and another at Kinken in Man-
churia to exploit this process; and a new company, the
Hokkaido Synthetic Petroleum Manufacturing Company, will
construct one plant at Ryusen and one plant at Tomae in
the Hokkaido for the annual production of l00,O00 kilograms
of artificial petroleum by this method.
The article states that the hydrogenation and synthetic
processes are still open to question, requiring further
study, and that there have been serious delays in the com-
mencing of operations of plants constructed. It is further
stated that the particular lack is a lack of adequate en-
gineering skill. It is admitted that production in the
industry has not approached a paying basis as a commercial
undertaking, and the price of synthetic petroleum in Japan
is given as roughly double that of imported petroleum.
The article is enclosed herewith.
Respectfully yours,
Eugene H. Dooman
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
663.6
CC:C
Enclosure:
1/ Bulletin of the South Sea Association,
6, Marunouchi 3-chome, Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo,
volume II, number 6, June 1939 (one copy only).

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.96)
MENT OF
RECEIVED
DEPART
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN APATRS
Tn
AUG1419
DATE: August 2, 1939.
Department of Stty
FE
SUBJECT:
ZCR
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. P. W. Parker, Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
Mr. Hornbeok
Mr. Hamilton
Mr. Ballantine
COPIES TO:
ADVISER
rIK
894.6363/336
MR.
AUCP-1939
1-1493
Mr. Parker reviewed developments in the situation
in Japan with regard to the distribution and sale of
petroleum products. These developments are described
in a telegram addressed on June 27, 1939, to the head
office of the company by the Yokohama office. A copy
of the telegram, which was left by Mr. Parker, is
attached. Mr. Parker felt that the situation was such
that for the time being the company could continue to
do business in Japan on a somewhat more restricted basis
PLED
than previously.
Mr. Parker went on to say that the company was
facing problems not only in relation to questions pre-
F/A
sented by the Japanese Government's oil polioy, but also
in consequence of the action of this Government in giving
notioe

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
notioe of termination of the commercial treaty with Japan.
with respect to the latter, he said that if the company
discontinued shipments of oil to Japan it might be faced
with the possibility that the Japanese Government might
thereafter withhold release of exchange for stocks already
in Japan. He said it had been the policy of the company
not to ship except upon the issuance of exchange permits
in an amount equivalent to the goods to be shipped, but
that in this procedure there was a time lag of about five
or six months.
Mr. Parker stated that Japan now has commercial
storage facilities for nearly 2,900,000 tons, which is
equivalent to almost one year's consumption and a ccording
to the best estimates available Japan has an additional
6,000,000 tons of storage facilities owned by the Japan-
ese Navy for naval requirements. He said that this amount
was large, not as compared with the storage facilities in
the United States, but as compared with many other countries,
Australia, for example. He alluded to the possibility
that if Japan were deprived of her normal oil supplies,
the Japanese Navy might be tempted to seize Borneo, a
matter which was already giving the Netherlands Government
concern.
Mr. Parker said it would be helpful if the Depart-
ment could give him information as to the prospects in
the

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
the situation so that the company could be guided thereby
in formulating its plans. He said he would like to know,
for example, whether it would be desirable for the American
staffs in Japan to send their families home.
Mr. Parker was told that there was nothing that the
Department could now tell him in regard to the situation
created by the denunciation of the treaty. It was ex-
plained to him that the Secretary, in his statements to
the press and to others, had not gone beyond the observa-
tion that the notice of termination speaks for itself. As
regards the question of sending home from Japan the families
of American employees, it was suggested that there was
nothing in the situation which need prompt such action,
but that now was obvious ly not a good time for American
families in Japan to enter into arrangements which would
complicate their departure should such a course eventually
appear to be advisable.
Mr. Parker said that should in he future the Depart-
ment be in a position to give further information in
regard to the situation he would be glad to come to
Washington at any time.
m.m.
2
FE: Balantine: JPS: HJM

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
T
YOKOHAMA
NEW YORK
PAGE ONE
JUNE 27/39
2:50 PM
4:50 PM
BUPPLEMENTARY TO NEWSPAPER AND OTHER REPORTS WE HAVE NOW RECEIVED RELIABLE
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION GOVERNMENT IS TO ENFORCE COMPLETE CONTROL OF DISTRI-
BUTION AND SALES IN JAPAN PROPER BY THE FOLLOWING MEANS
A
JOINT SALES
COMPANY COMPOSED OF ALL REFINERS MANUFACTURERS OF ARTIFICIAL OIL AND IMPORTERS
EXCEPT THE TWO FOREIGN COMPANIES (STOP) FURTHER PARTICULARS ARE
ONE CAPITAL
YEN 2O O0O,O0O AND SHARE AFTER ALLOCATING 1O% TO MANUFACTURERS OF ARTIFICIAL
OIL TO BE FIXED ON THE BASAS OF SALES QUOTA-S JANUARY JUNE 1939 TWO ALL SALES
AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES OF PARTICIPANTS TO BE PURCHASED OR RENTED (BY) A
THREE PRODUCTS CONCERNED ARE ALL PETROLEUM PRODUCTS AND BY-PRODUCTS ALSO
ARTIFICIAL OIL PRODUCTS BUT ASPHALTS AND HIGH GRADE LUBRICANTS TO BE EXCEPTED
UNTIL NECESSARY UNIFICATION OF GR DES ACCOMPLISHED ALSO FOREIGN BUNKERS TO BE
EXCEPTED
FOUR A WILL IN EFFECT SELL ON CONSIGNMENT ON BEHALF OF PARTICIPANTS
AND WILL PAY THEM PROCEEDS OF SALES AFTER DEDUCTING ACT L EXPENSES AND
PROVISION FOR DIVIDEND-S NOT GREATER THAN 6%
8
IN EACH CEOGRAPHICAL MARKETING
AREA ALL SECOND PARTIES INCLUDING THOSE OF FOREIGN COMPANIES W.LL - AMALGAMATED
INTO JOINT STOCK COMPANY WHICH WILL BE THE APPOINTED SECOND PARTY AND ONL:
RECOGNIZED WHOLESALER IN THAT AREA (STOP) UNDER THESE WHOLESALERS THIRD PARTY-S
WILL BE APPOINIED ON THE BASIS OF CONNECTION-S WITH CONSUMERS THAT IS IF A
SECOND PARTY NOW SELLS DIRECT TO CONSUMERS UNDER THE NEW SCHEME HE MAY BE A
THIRD PARTY AS WELL AS A MEMBER OF WHOLESALE COMPANY BUT WE UNDERSTAND THE PLAN
IS EVENTUALLY TO MERGE ALL SUCH THIRD PARTIES OR OTHER RETAILERS WITH TH
WHOLESALERS INTO ONE DISTRIBUTING SYSTEM (STOP) BRING TO YOUR ATTENTION WE
UNDERSTAND GOVERNMENT CONFRONT-ING-ED JAPANESE COMPANY-S WITH
A
PRACTICALLY
AS A FAIT ACCOMPLI AND FORMAT!ON WILL BE COMPLETED BY JUNE 3OTH (STOP)
(CONTI NUED)

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.96)
YOKOHAMA
NEW YORK
PAGE TWO
JUNE 27/39
FORMATION OF B IS HOPED TO BE COMPLETED AND WHOLE SCHEME PUT INTO OPERATION BY
AUGUST 1ST FURTHERMORE WE HAVE BEEN INFORMED FRIENDS AND WE WILL SOON BE CALLED
TO FUEL BUREAU AND REQUESTED FIRST NOT TO OPPOSE OUR SECOND PARTY-S JOINING B
SECOND TO CO-OPERATE WITH WHOLE SCHEME PREFERABLY Y SELLING OUR PRODUCTS ON
CONSIGNMENT THROUGH A ON THE BASIS CF FOUR PLUS SOME COMMISSION IN WHICH EVENT
A WILL PURCHASE OR RENT OUR DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES (STOP) IN REGARD TO FIRST
FRIENDS AND WE CONSIDER OPPOSITIO VOULD E
INEXPEUIENT AND USELESS BECAUSE
IN THE INTEREST OF SELF-PRESERVATION OUR SECOND PARTY-S CANNOT AFFORD TO BE
LEFT OUT (STOP) IN REGARD TO SECOND FRIENDS AND WE GATHER CUR PARTICIPATION I
JOINT SALES COMPANY IS NOT WA TED DY GOVERNLENT AIU THEREFODE WE BELIEVE SOME
DEGREE OF FLEXIBILITY MIGHT
FC1.
PESPECY TO CUR CO-OPERATION FON EXANPLE
WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO ARRANGE TO
AVUID SELLG THROUGH A AND REIAIN OUR OWN
DISTRIBUTING FACILITIES AND BRA DS SIT WE U DERSTAND (THAT) WE SHOULD NOT BE
ALLOWED TO DEAL WITH OUR PRESENT SECOND PARTIES NDIVIDUALLY AND
IN VIEW B WILL
BE ONLY RECOGNIZED WHOLESALER-S YE WOULD SE RERUIRED TO SELL THROUGH B WHOSE
INTEREST IN SATISFACTORY MAINTENANCE OUR BRANDS WOULD DECLINE PROGRESSIVELY
SO THAT OUR IDENTITY ON THE MARKET WOULD BE HOMINAL (STOP) FURTHERMORE WE
CONSIDER GOVERNMENT CONTROL IS LINELY TO REMAIN SUCH THAT RETENTION OF
OUR
DISTRIBUTING FACILITIES IS NOT VITAL AND WILL NOT INFLUENCE QUOTAS HENCEFORTH
ESPECIALLY AFTER HAVING BEEN G:VEN THIS OPPCRTUNITY TO SELL THEM IN THIS
CONNECTION BRING TO YOUR ATTENTION SALES VALUE OF DISTRIBUT NG FACILITIES
WILL BE HIGHEST BEFORE COMPLETION OF ORGANIZATION OF A AND THEREAFTER WILL DROP
GREATLY (STOP) THEREFORE FROM THE STANDPOINT LOCALLY WE FEEL FULL CO-CPER  ON
(CONN

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
CONAMA
YORK
PAGE THREE
JUNE 27/39
T GOVERNMENT BY SELLING OUR PRODUCT-S ON CONSIGNMENT THROUGH A INDICATED
MEANS OF OBTAINING THE BEST POSSIBLE TERMS FOR DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES
AND ALSO PERHAPS SOME CONSIDERATION IN REGARD TO QUOTAS EXCHANGE ETC. BUT WE
APPRECIATE C EVEN BY SUCH CO-OPERATION IT IS NOT LIKELY THAT WE CAN OBTAIN ANY
GUARANTEED MINIMUM GALLONAGE OVER SATISFACTORY PERIOD AS IT IS ALMOST CERTAIN
UNDER PRESENT CONDITIONS GOVERNMENT COULD NOT DISREGARD ECONOMY-S AS WELL AS
LOCAL REFINING POLICY AND STOCKHOLDING QUESTION TO THE EXTENT OF GIVING ANY
MORE SPECIFIC ASSURANCES THAN THEY HAVE BEEN WILLING TO GIVE SO FAR
D
SUCH A
CHANGE IN ORGANIZATION AND POLICY ON OUR PART IGHT HAVE IMPORTANT BEARING ON
DEVELOPMENT-S IN OTHER FAR EAST AREAS (STOP) TELEGRAPH US YOUR VIEWS (STOP)
IF YOU ARE PREPARED TO CONSIDER SELLING THROUGH A IT IS CUR AND FRIENDS THOUGHT
THAT MIGHT GET BETTER POSITION INCLUDING POSSIBLY PARTICIPATION IN A IF WE
WERE PARTNERSHIP WITH JAPANESE COMPANY-S WHILE WE DO NOT THINK THAT COULD OBTAIN
MORE DEFINITE ASSURANCE-S THUS WE BELIEVE JAPANESE PARTNEF S WOULD TEND TO
PROLONG OUR TRADE UNDER PRESENT CONDITIONS AND LATER IHPROVE PHOSPECT-S OF
FINDING SOME MEANS OF FULFILLING OBLIGATIONS STOCKHOLDING AND PARTICIPATING IN
RESTORED OR INCREASED TRADE (STOP) FRIENDS HAVE TELEGRAPHED LONDON SIMILARLY

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Aotivities, in Maxic∞, of Nakano and Tajim, Japamese.
Advises that Phillipe has chartered a plame to take
himself, the two Japanese, ané Semator Davila to
894.6363
Pose Rica on the 19th to make a survey. Nakamo eame
from Japan to the United States to purehase equip-
mont to set up a petroleum refimery in Japan but he
is undoubtedly interested in crude oil and may be
commsoted with Japanese interested in La Veraorusamm.
/337
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTelerm  827 6 PM
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, sto.)
From Mexiee (Boal)
Dated00tober 18. 1989
To
File No.812.6563/6219
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
aM
337

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Purchase of Mexican oil for Japan.
354.6363/ 338
Advises of a credit of S59,000 established in exico
by the American Export Company for the purchase of
5.000 drums of kerosene and 2, 500 drums of lubri-
cating oil to be shipped to Japan or anchukuo for
the account of Ciunanibei laihotsukaisha.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Telegram  319 6 PM
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated
October 16, 1939
From
'exico (Boal)
To
File No.
812.6363/6213
A

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Purchase of refinery equipment, in New York, by Nakano
Tomonori, president of Nipon Soda Company of Tokio.
Information received from Abraham Z. Phillips regarding
the recent,- costing $7,000,000 for construotion of a
894.6305/
refinery in Japan. It is hoped that by the time this
construction is completed that the Japanese group
headed by Tomonori will have sucoeeded in dislodging
the La Veraorusana group and in obtaining oil and
pipe line concessions from Mexico.
3
3
6
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Despatoh # 9378
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated Ootober 25.1939
Mexico (Daniels)
To
File No.
812.6363/6256
AM
339
