894.405 Social Matters., Japan, Manners And Customs., October 14, 1947 - July 8, 1948 (File 1644)
ID: 894.405-1644   Pages: 66   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.405-social-matters-japan
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
010
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT SPECIAL STAFF
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
14 October 1947
r. Frank Schuler
Chief, Japanese-Korean Branch
894.405/10-1447
DIC OCCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
Ai0, Lepartment of State
1778 Pennsylvania Avenue, 1. W.
(ADO)
Washington 25, D. C.
OCT 171947
1ear ir. Schuler:
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Inclosed please find informaticn requested by
your office concerning the clarification of ceremon-
ial bowing.
Sincerely yours,
1 Incl
EDGAR ERSKINE HUME
cy ltr fm Uhief, CI&E,
Colonel, GSC
SOAP, w/1 cf inel,
Chief, Feorientation Branch
2 0ct 47
S5
cl..le
N
FILED
894.405/
7h11
GID OUCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
(A00)
NOV 1 1947
DEPARIMENT OF STATE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.93)
APO 500
2 October 1947
AG 319.11 (2 Oct 47)CIE
SUDJSCT: Tranamittal of Infonmation Clarifying
Ceramonial Bowing
TO:
Chiaf, Civil Affairs Division, Special taff, United
tatesrmy,ashington 25,..
ATTENTION: Roorientation Branch
In compliance with ro uost contained in radio message WCL 25790
from WAR (C3CAD RO), 30 September 1947, tranamitted herewith are
copies in Japanese and anglish of the document desired.
1 Inal
D..HUGENT
2 copies of Hatsu Caru
.col. USMC
No. 239 with Japarese
chielISection
translation

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of Hatsu Gaku No. 239. 3 Jume 194?
From:
Chief, School Education Section, Education Ministry
To:
Principals of Public and Private Universities; Principals of
Higher Technical Schools; Principals of Mormal Schools: Pre-
fectural Governors
Subject: School-conducted Bowing toward Imperial Palace
In ceremonies henceforth, school-sponsored or school-directed bowing
to the Imperial Palace and school-sponsored or school-directed shouting
of "Long live the Emperor" will cease.
Moreover, principals and teachers will not, in instructing students
(of universities, high schools, and grade schools), insist on the out-
ward show of belief in the divinity of the emperor or lead the students
to this belief. Needless to say, this does not. however, prevent a spon-
taneous feeling of respect for the emperor on the part of the students
and school children.
On fete days heretofore, when ceremonies were held, schools have
tended to carry them out for form's sake and in a uniform manner; but
hereafter, this will be revised in such a way as to conform to the
condition of each school. For example, school entertainment, athletio
activities, exhibitions, or lectures can be given to drive home the
aim of the fete in a suitable manner, thus making joy general for the
participants.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.78)
発学二三九号
昭和二十二年六月三日
文部省字校教育局長
官公私立大字高專校長
教員養成諸字校長殿
都道府縣知事
字校における呂城通拜について
儀式之除して字校か主惟し指導して行わ九た呂城通天呈陸下力歲
は今後やめるととする
化の表現をしたり父は正したりしてはならないとのことはも
お從來祝日おて式定行して上ては式的
一的に行われていた同もあるか今俊はと孔をめとれを行う場合は
字校の失備之卽して例允は子鑑云連動云股竟云父は詩話講演等之
行通切に祝日の百をざ也參加者かひとしく喜ひを共に寸る
上うに失施されたい。

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
Da/RfleNA
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
I. Nr. Bamerera F.E/ mm. Ha
TO
FE, Mr. Borton
DATE: October 21. 1947
Office orD
FROM
ADO, Mr. Schuler
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 2 2 1947
SUBJECT:
School-conducted bowing towerd Imperial Palace
DIVISION OF
IC OCCUPIED AREAS DIVIS
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
(ADO)
OCT781947
NOV 3 1947
H
DEPARTMENT OF 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.405/10-1447
You may wish to note in passing the attached file
with regard to a Japanese Education Ministry order on
bowing in Japanese schools, which we requested from
SCAP. The English translation appears to have been
made purposely incorrect. What it boils down to is
there will be as much "Kōtō" in the new Japen as there
was in the old, and it's my guess that "Charlie" will
one day again stand as the rallying point for a resur-
gence of Japanese nationalism and militariam. I am
very weary, weary because it didn't have to be that
way, but we cast the die when we let SCAP regulate the
matter, and there would seem to be nothing we can do
about it any more.
Would you be good enough to return the file to
me when you have finished looking it over?
ADO: M.Shuen
Hogen, t  in quen in 
N
FILED
Attachments:
"Jutrwand show of."
1. From Colonel Hume,
itB
FW 894.405
October 14, 1947.
2.
From Lt. Col. Nugent,
October 2, 1947.
3.
Translation Hatsu Gaku,
June 3, 1947.
10-1447
ADO: FASchuler, Jr./jg

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.405/7-848
FILE NO.
DESP.422 FRCM TOKYO
RECORD COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
AR 29 199
ALLED
FAP
M-184
9-23-48

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
oed
161948
Unid Statea Political Adviser
foy Japan
Tosyo. Juzy
No 428
UNCIASIFID
Roc'd
July 13
894.
SUBJLCT: Tranamittel of Publication: The Japanese pamily Syetm
AUTTON
OCDRENC
405
TFO
DCR
The Acting Political Adviser hes the honor to forward five
FE*ENC
copies of a publication of the Japan Institute of Pacific Stud-
ITHENC
ies entitled The Japalese Family Systam as Seen from the Stand-
point of Japenese Women. This study is the work of Mrs. HANI
Setsuko, wife of HANI Goro, a member of the House of counoillore.
LARENC
AIR
In tlhis work Mrs. HANI reviews the feudal background of the
8
Japanese family system and the historical position of women,
84
touohes upon the incomplete early reforma of the Meij1 period,
and concludes with the thought that wnless the new civil code
(her work is believed to heve teen comp leted before the new
Civil Code came into effect on January 1, 1948) guarantees the
economic independence of women, thelr position will not be elev-
ated since they wiil re ain econor ieally dependent upon their
perents.
an interestinc ol servation on the Japanese family system
by a commentator on the old civil code, Dr. UnE Kenjuro, quoted
with approval by the autlor on page 7 of the onclosed booklet, is
that it is conspicuous for its feudalistic character, having
developed historicelly fron the practical economic needs of a
large number of people united together for warring purposes. How-
ever, the quotation continues, in mutual society characterized by
free competition, no one can keep pace with its progress unless he
possesses property of his own and maintains an independent status
in society.
Enclosure:
Five copies of publication:
The Japanese Family System.
Original and ozalid to Department

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.92)
11
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Uniod Statos Political Adviser
INTERNATIONAL LADOR, SOCIAL
DIVISION OF
royjupan
Sociad B
AHD HEALTH AFFAIRS - ILH
To. Juy 8, 1948
18
No 428
UNCIASSIFLED
Roc'd
July 13
SUBJECT: Tranamittal of Publication: The Japanese pamily Systm
ATL
OCD*ENC
T
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward five
FEWENC
copies of a publication of the Japan Institute of Pacific Stud-.
1PF*ENC
ies entitled The Japalese Family System as Seen from the Stand-
point of Japanese Women. This study is the work of Mrs. HANI
0
Setsuko, wife of HANI Goro, a member of the Rouse of councillors.
LA*ENC
AIR
In this work Nrs. HAnI reviews the feudal background of the
Japanese family system and the historical position of women,
touches upon the incemplets early reforms of the Meiji period,
and concludes with the thou ht that wnless the new civil code
(her work ia believed to heve een completed before the new
Civil code came into effect on Junuary 1, 1948) guarantees the
eoonomic independence of women, their position will not be alev-
ated since they will reain econorically dependent upon their
perents.
An interesting observation ou the Japenese family Bystem
by a commentator on the old Civil Code, Dr. UaE Kenjuro, quoted
with approval by the author on page ? of the enelosed booklet, is
that it is conspicuous for its feudalistic character, having
developed historically from the practical economic needs of a
large nunber of people united together for warring purposes. How-
ever, the quotation continues, in mutual society characterized by
free competition, no one can keep pace with its progress unless he
possesses proporty of nis own and maintains an independent status
in society.
Enclosure:
Five copies of publication:
The Japanese Family System.
Original and ozalid to Department
840.5
JDEdwards: emn
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
The Japanese Family System
-As seen from the standpoint
of Japanese women
By
SETSUKO HANI
THE JAPAN INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC STUDIES
THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO., LTD.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Institute of Pacific Studics is an unofficial and
non-political body organized in 1946 for facilitating the scicntific
study of the problems of the Pacific area. The Institute as such
is prosluded from expressing an opinion on any aspect of national
or international affairs; opinions expressed in this study are,
therefore, entirely individual.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPANESE FAMILY SYSTEM
—As Seen From the Standpoint of Japanese Women—
By
SETSUKO HANI
This is an English version of Madame Hani's contr butory article
to (A Symposium on Democratizati n of Japan'now tnder prepiration
by the Japan Institute of P'acific Studies. For all statements of fact
and (pinion, the author alone is responsible.
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
NIHON TAIHEIYO MONDAI CHOSAKAI
(The Japan Institute of Pacific Studies)
4, 7-CHOME, GINZA, TOKYO
DISTRIBUTED BY
THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
1948

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Introduction
In most cases, the study of the family system so far conducted in
this country is of a nature of legal interpretations by college profes-
sors on some aspects of the family system and it has proved falling
far short of getting at the realities of the family system as it prevails
in this country. Naturally we have been dissatisfied with this kind of
study. Therefore, when I took upon myself the task of making a report
on the Japanese family system on behalf of the Nihon Taiheiyo Mon-
dai Chosakai (The Japan Institute of Pacific Studies), I have sought
for a new method for getting at the real facts about the family sys-
tem of Japan through a series of discussions with my husband, Goro
Hani, whom I respect as a historian and scholar, on this problem.
The first thing I did for this purpose was to study judicial records,
in order to see how the family system was reflected in legal cases.
Because I believed that through a dispute, judicial or otherwise, could
the real character of problems pertaining to the family system reveal
itself most distinctly. By studying judicial records with the assis-
tance of Mr. Yoshio Makino, a progressive lawyer, Mr. Yoshisaburo
Takano, a judge, and some other friends, I learned many things. In
the first place, I learned that problems of the family system as they
appeared in judicial cases were almost invariably problems of property.
In a negative way, this led me to the conclusion that judicial records
can not furnish materials for dealing with the problem of the family
system of the Japanese people as a whole, as they are concerned almost
exclusively with the family troubles of the people of the middle class
and up. In a positive way, however, I found, firstly, that the problems
pertaining to the family system are necessarily problems of property

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
instead of mere customs or sentiments ; secondly, that the existing legal
sys em in this country is mainly in the interes's of the pronertied classes;
and, thirdly, that a way to the settlement of the problem of the family
system faced by the people in general, is not found in the mere revision
of laws, the enactment of a new Civil Code, the revision of the court
system and other legal measures which are beyond the reach of the
ordinary people, but must necessarily be sought in the solution of a
basic social problem underlying it.
The next thing I did was to analyse actual facts about the family
system in rural villages, in order to strike at its roots. As my co!-
laborater, I asked 'my dependable friend Miss Ikuyo Yoshida, who is
an editor of a certain local paper and has been actively engaged for
many years in the farmers' movement, for assistance. She has made a
pilgrimage to many courts in rural districts for copying th: judicial
records of divorces. But before long her attention was directed, to her
great surprise, to the fact that not a mark of improvement or progress
hid be:n made in the divorce situation in rural villages since the early
years of the present century so far as the judicial records were con-
cerred. This may be connected in some way or other with the social
conditions of Japan, which have experienced practically no progress
during the period. But here too it was made clear that the direct caus:
of this situation could be sought in the fact that troubles of the family
system brought before the court were confined to problems of family
property. To delve more into this problem, Miss Yoshida then made
a round of visits to nearby village offices to get information from the
census officials. In this way, her painstaking efforts continued until
she collected a considerable amount of materials. Unfortunately, how-
ever, as often happens in the present day Japan, she had one day her
rucksack containing those valuable documents and papers stolen, forcing
2

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
her to restart the arduous task all over again. Lastly, I tried to pick
up as many information about the family system as possible from
among the Ietters s nt to the " Women's Hour" Section of the Japan
Broadcasting Corporation.
For the eventual solution of most of the problems concerning the
Japanese family system, I set my last hope in the combination of many
of my friends both at home and abroad. For I believe that when
women and children find themselves organized in farmers' and workers'
unions, most of the problems of the Japanese family system will be
satisfactorily solved.
3.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
I
The stipulations of sex equality and respect for the individual con-
tained in the New Constitution, which was promulgated for the rebirth
of Japan as a peaceful and cultural State, has apparently impressed
the Japanese people that this Constitution is a document of enlighten-
ment rather than a mere law. One of its articles says; "All of the
people are equal under the law and there shall be no discrimination in
political, economic, or social relations because of race, cree l, sex, social
status or family origin....." Another article stipulates: "Marriage
shall be based only on the mutual consent of both sexes and it shall
be maintained through mutual co-operation with the equal rights of
husband and wife as a basis. With regard to choice of apouse, pro-
perty rights, inheritance, choice of domicile, divorce and other matters
2
pertaining to marriage and the family, laws shall be enacted from the
standpoint of individual dignity and the essential equality of the
sexes."
These articles contain a new code of morality which demands pro-
found reflection on the part of the people. When Japan tried to
institute democratic government following the Meiji Restoration, the
idea of freedom and popular rights was popularized and a new morality
based on the equal rights of both sexes was asserted in condemnation
of all practices of feudalistic inequality of long standing. In 1872 the
Education Ministry decided to send five young women to the United
States for study in that country. At the same time, the Cabinet issued
an order prohibiting slave trade, thereby authorizing licensed prostitutes
4

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
to quit slavery; abolished the restriction on inter-class marriage, in
. order to permit marriage between peers and commoners; and authorized
a yidow to enjoy the right of inheritance to a house in the case of
the absence of an heir. In this way, the feudalistic yoke, under which
women in this country had long been placed only because of their sex,
seemed to be at last cast off. The year 1877 saw the first advocacy
of female suffrage. All this shows that Japan was by no means
backward, as compared with other countries, in the movement for female
emancipation. Painstaking efforts exerted by this country for remould-
ing itself into a modern State, however, were nearly frustrated by
conservative influences, which played a reactionary role. Conditions
in this country thus degenerated again so badly that the idea of equa-
lity of both sexes was denounced simply as light and frivorous peculiar
to America. Under the circumstances, it is no wonder that there should
be a considerable number of people who take the New Constitution
either as " an unexpected revolution " to the existing family system or
"a revolution forced upon by a third party."
The existing Civil Code of Japan, the disgraceful character of
which was fully exposed in the aftermath of the war, was one of the
products during this reactionary period. It was in 1869 that the
enactment of a Civil Code was first advocated by Shimpei Eto, a pro-
gressive statesman, who insisted: "Although Japan and Western
countries differ from each other in manners and customs, they have a
common need of possessing a·Civil Code." In 1878 Justice Minister
Oki entrusted Dr. Gustave Emile Boisscnade, a French jurist, who
was visiting this country at the time, and some other persons with the
drafting of the Civil Code. The task continued until 1890, when the
draft was brought to completion and then promulgated as the Civil
Code of Japan.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
But, with the enforcement of this code, commonly known as the
Oid Civil Code, on January 1, 1893 in sight, oppositions were raised
t
against it demanding its postponement, chiefly on the ground that it
dit not comform to the conditions of this country and the customs of
it; pople, notably in the point that it fatally lacked a proper ap-
pr hension of the family system of this country. For instance. Dr.
Yasaka liozumi opposed the right of a widow in the case of the absence
of an heir to succession to a house for the following reasons: (Refer
to " The Appearance of the Civil Code Leads to the Destruction of
Loyalty and Filial Piety " Hogaku Shimpo, No. 5, 1891 ; " The Family
System and the Fundamental Character of the Empire," Hoguku Shim-
to, No. 130, 1892; "The Standards of the Civil Law," Hogaku
Shimfo, No. 25, 1893; etc.): In the first place, a " house" as con-
ceived in relation with the family system peculiar to Japan should
essentially center in the head of a house, who is patriarchal in character.
History shows some instances where there existed matriarchs. But so
far as the lristorical facts of this country are concerned, it has always
been the rule that a male is the head of a hou e and, as such, he
personifies the spirits of the ancestors. In the case of the Old Civil
Code, however, since a house composed through the union of man and
wife constitutes the basis of social organization, and, moreover, since
this same idea says all such institutions as vesting a widowed mother
with parental authority, by completely disregarding paternal rights
peculiar to a father, or recognizing the duty of supporting between the
child and its mother or father, who has left the house, this new law
is nefarious in the light of the family system of Japan."
Against this contention, Dr. Kenjiro Ume defended the attitude
taken by the Old Civil Code, by emphatically pointing out the fact
that the national or social organization of Japan was now in the
6

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
transition period from feudalistic society centering around a "house"
to a society centering around individuals, and asserting that, unless a
legal system was established to cope with this universal trend, it would
be impossible for Japan to maintain national order, and to enhance
social morals and the development of commerce and industry. In his
lecture " On the Future of the Family System" delivered in 1902,
Dr. Ume theoretically liquidated in a laudable manner the family sys-
tem of this country, which has now been cleared up by the New
Constitution, as "a survival of the feudal age." "Although some
scholars go to the length of asserting that the Tamily system must be
maintained intact, to say nothing of its abolition, through all ages, on
the ground that it constitutes an element essential to the naticnal
constitution of this country, this contention is based on their lack of
knowledge about the history of Western countries. The patriarchal
right recognized in the Roman Law long remained as an institution
even after it became unfit for the actual condition of society with the
passing of time; it failed to assimilate the German Law to its end
when it was later brought into contact with it. The patriarchal right
is found to be stronger in a less civilized society. The same rule ap-
plies to family estate. The headship of a house prevalent in this country
is especially conspicuous for its feudalistic character. Historically, it
has developed from the practical need of feudalism, for affording an
economic basis to a large number of people united together for warring
purposes; fiefs were granted them to sustain their respective families.
In modern society characterized by free competition, however, no one
can keep pace with its progress unless he possesses property of his own.
and maintains an independent status in society." Thus, Dr. Ume
denounced the system whereby the eldest son exclusively succeeds to
the entire family estate and an heir presumptive is prohibited to leave
his house, condemning the headship of a house as excessive in power.
7

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Against this, however, a group of bureaucratic scholars, clinging
to feudalism, offered strong opposition on the ground that "since the
Old Civil Code was drafted by a foreigner modelled after the French
Civil Code which is based on democracy and natural rights of man, it is
entirely in contravention with the spirit of the Constitu:ion of Japan."
They argud that "it would be a great honour for the peers to oppose
it since they constitute the bulwaik of the Throne." (Hogaku Shimfo,
No. 130, 1892)
Later, during the period of some ten years following 1907, the
problem of the family system was taken up for discussion by Dr.
Tsukasa Okamura, who upheld the stand maintained by Dr. Ume. As
his opponent, Dr. Otoshiro Ishizaka advocated, in his paper entitled
" The Family System and Succession to a House by the Eldest Son,"
the mainteriance of the system of succession to a house by the eldest
son for preserving the agrarian families in this country. Pointing out
that, under changing conditions of society and by the provisions of
the Old Civil Code, the system of succession to a house by the eldest
son, which fo med the backbone of the family system of th's country,
had been brought on the brink of collapse, he insisted on taking some
measures for rescuing it. It has now been fully disclosed that the real
role played by the family system was nothing more than contributing
to the distorted development of Japan's capitalism, which was far be-
hind Western capitalism in progress.
(In regard to this problem, Prof. Sakae Wagatsuma published
a paper, titled " Transition of Legal Discussions on the Family
System" in Horitsu Jiho, October, November and December
1946.)
8

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
II
In complete ignorance of these academic controversies, the ma-
jority of the people had long lived under the contr:1 of the semi-
feudalistic Civil Code, into which the Old Civil Code was finally
incorporated, up until recently when their eyes were opened to the
seriousness of this problem by the promulgation of the New Constitu-
tion. The feudalistic character of the existing Civil Code is mainly
attributed to the over-emphasis placed on the " house," which constitutes
a feature of Japan's family system. A "house" in the family system
is in itself a world, which essentially hinges on the moral idea that
places the foremost value on the vertical relations between the members
of the family. In other words, it is a world, where the primary im-
portance is attached to the continuation of the lineage or the family
tradition, where its successor is rcquired to be a male, and where the
whole family is placed under the control of the head of the house of
paternal rights. It is no wonder that in such a " house" the freedom
and development of its individual members, especially of the female sex,
should be regarded as of only secondary importance, rarely being
considered a matter of any account. Since the "house" thus stands
for a family community, where vertical relations predominates over all
the other relations, it is essentially exclusive and isolated in character,
which is contrary to the idea of modern society.
In this connection, Mr. Yasumasa Oshima throws much light on
this problem. (" The Idea of a Family State and Social Consciousness,"
Chuto Kyoiku, Jan., 1946.) He says: "The introduction into this

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
country of capitalism since the beginning of the Meiji era meant the
format on of a bourgeois State in the modern sense, and, as such, it
一
should have resulted in the complete dissolution of the idea of the
family state as a life-unity which is in itself an objective, because the
prerequis'te to the actual structure of the bourgeois society consists in
the consciousness of equality by free individuals. As pointed out by
Ferdinand Tonnics, a family community (Gemeinschaft) based on the
primitive na ure of man and an association (Geselschaft) organized by
the selective will of individual, which functions by rational intelligence,
are antipodal in quality. In reality, however, with the exception of such
a country as the United States, which lacks a history of feudalism,
it is undeniable that there exists no country which can supply a perfect
model for cither of these antipodal societies. Every country contains
in itself these two different types of society in some form or other.
But what is peculiar to Japan is the fact that, owing to the backwaid-
ness of its capitalism, such factors as individual democracy in the
political sense, personal sense of responsibility, and the consciousness
of mutual aid, which are closely bound up with the devclopment of
capitalism, have not been ful'y established among its people in time,
leaving as a result its family communities to remain intact. But when
the perpetuation of these communities, whi h are incompatible with the
structure of a modern State, is attempted through transforming their
inherently outmoded character into an absolute and immovable idea trans-
cending the times, it should necessarily take on a political character.
This political character is essentially antagonistic, and opposed to
the political idea of the modern bourgeois society. Investigations
into the substance of this political character, as well as the social
phenomena it gives rise to, and the results attributed to it, would elo-
quently reveal the true character of this nation which until the surrender
in 1945 had been guiding and educating the people so as to ccmpel
10

=== Page 22 === (confidence 1.00)
their blind obedience.
It was, indeed, during this period, when most of us passed our
youthful days, that in spite of the absolute authority of the Emperor,
we were severed so remotely from the Emperor as had never been
experienced by our countrymen before, on account of our human
consciousness and humanistic sentiment intensified all the more because
of his deification. This contradiction is nothing but a product of the
combinition of a modern capitalistic State and the time-old idea of a -
family State. In such a State, it is little wonder that, at the cost
of a harmonious combination of independent and responsible individuals
based on their cons iousness, capitalism which is isolated from political
democracy and free personal consciousness, should find itself taking on
a semi-feudalistic character. It is, indecd, the idea or consciousness of
the house, either economic or ethical, that has supported the pyra-
midal monopolistic organization of the Zaibatsu or the plutocracy
of Japan, preserving industrial mysticism which, rejecting rational
production by machinery, falls back on secret arts handed down from
father to son, and justifies the apprenticeship system in regard to
handicraft with the attachment of spiritual significance. We cannot
but find in each of these features the root-cause which destines this
country to defeat in a modern total war.
"When education based on such family State is enforced as pertinent
to a modern society, it is certain to result in the creation of individuals
extremely egoistic and sòlely bent upon profit-making. This egoistic
character primarily centers in self-love, and it is essentially different
from the character which develops into the altruistic utilitarianism—the
greatest happiness of the greatest number. It may be insisted that
natural love towards the family develops and expands into love of the
country, and eventually into love for humanity. But this will not
11

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
necessarily be so. As pointed out by Bergson in his work " Source of
Morality and Religion," love for the family or the country in a closed
society is es entially of a different dimension from love for humanity;
the morality of the unclosed world religion transcends all relative ob-
jects, because of the selective and exclusive nature of the former type
of love which harbours a hatred for others. For this reason, the view
that the love for the country starting from the family will eventually
lead to love for humanity, cannot really go beyond an abstract con-
sciousness, which has no power to translate the idea into practice.
We must also recognize in the defeat we have just experienced the
truth of Bergson's theory that even between love for the family
and that for the country, which come under the same category, there
xists co-ordinative difference in dimension. In other words, owing to
the difference existing between a family and a country, the two closed
societies, in spite of their confusion arising from their origins, the
former essentially has a tendency to keep up its closed aspect under
the necessity of preserving the super-political, fixed order essential for
its ex'stence, while, on the other hand, the unification of component
members of the latter cainot be perfectly attained unless through their
individual co-operative wills that are free and voluntary. In a country
where the truth about the war it is waging is concealed from the p o-
ple, and their blind obedience is demanded, the people will vainly indulge
themselves in egoistic conducts centering around their respective families,
even becoming indifferent in the face of a threatened invasion by the
enemy forces. I.ove is egoistic if left to function directly; love for the
family is nothing but a physical extention of this egoistic love. Attach-
ment to the family is proportionate to the strength of its closed nature.
Maintenance of profit befitting petit merchants, capitalism affiliated
with household industries, a joint-stock company which justifies low
12

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
wages, poor factory equipments and long labor hours—these are the un-
failing results of the idea of a family State and the system of education
supported by it. Needless to say, no attempt at preserving the idea of a
family State of such character in this country should be permitted, which
now faces the task of reconstruction in the aftermath of a defeated war."
Characterized by such feudalistic family community, it is only
natural that there has grown in Japan a concept of women peculiar to
itself. Submission being considered the foremost feminine virtue, women
in this country have long been deprived of the freedom of criticism in
the name of obedience, gracefulness or the womanly gentlen ss to hush
up a matter. Especially during the late war, this non-critical attitude
was brought to the fore as " the non-arguing mind" which constitutes
an attribute of the Japanese spirit. It was imposed not only on the
fair sex b t also on the young people in general. Under the circum-
stances, resignation has offered a place of refuge to Japanese women.
and in resignation have they found their only life-philosophy.
As in the case of all the other phases of woman's life, a
" house" has supreme authority over marriage which practically means
the starting-point for women. In Japan, the number of families each
compos d of a couple and children represents only 30 per cent, of the
whole number; in the majority of cases, several couples of married
people live together in the same house under its head. In most cases,
marriage is not considered as a union of man and wonan, but a bride
is regarded as a newly admitted member of a " house." Prof. Zennosuke
Nakagawa illustrated the point as follows:
"A certain girl, whom I knew, was married some time ago to a
man belonging to a farmer family in a rural village. Before one week
13

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
had passed since their wedding ceremony took place, she was ordered
by her family people to pay a visit to her parents' house, according
to the custom pertaining to marriage. When the innocent bride,
however, wa; Visiting her patents and other dear ones, she unexpectedly
found her trousseau, which she had brought with her to her new home,
being sent back to her parents' house. Following it a messenger came
to her parents' house from the bridegroom's house, informing that she
had bren divorced. The reason for her divorce was explained by the
messenger: she"was not in harmony with the family tradition. This
story was told to me nearly one month after the incident. To my
question of how the bride's family had negotiated with the bridegroom's
family on this matter, I was informed that, although they asked the
go-between several times to negotiate with the other party, the matter
was till standing unsettled. She was 23 or 24, and was still of mar-
riageable age, and this was her first marriage. But finding that she
was half resigning herself to fate, with her qualificatien for marriage
meicilessly negated in only ten days or so after her marriage, I felt
strange, rather than provoked. It was one of many incidents taking
place among the uncultured farmers in North-eastern Japan. But it is
preposterous to divorce a bride, simply for the reason that she wás found
unsatisfactory, so lightly like casting away a kitten. The same may
be said of the bride, who is so easily divorced. It is, indeed, no
exaggeration to say that there is not a bit of recognition given to the
personality of the woman in this case."
A similar case has been obtained in the field study conducted in
Oshikiri Village in the Shonai district of Yamagata prefecture. The
report says in part: " As first consideration is given to the " house"
in marriage, there are many instances of unreasonable or forced mar-
riages in this village. Many men and women get married against their
14

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
intentions solely 'for the sake of their houses'". However, this is
not only a problem in the backwood villages in North-eastern Japan,
but also in big cities, as well, where even intellectual people often di.
vorce their wives not intrinsically for personal reascns but for reasor
relative to their " houses."
In a " house" it is found that its headship is so strongly protected
that the head of the house, being vested with the right to designate
the domiciles of the family members and also the right to consent to
the entry of a non-family member's name in the family register, is
enabled to refuse the entry of the bride's name on the family re-
gister and further, to have the names of the newly married couple
removed from it, in case the girl, whom one of the male members of
his family married, is not liked by him, even when both parties have
already reached maturity legally. I myself know a case of a young
man and a girl who experienced similar difficulties. Although they
both were, eagarly desiring to be united on a sincere understanding
formed between themselves, with the approval of the girl's parents and
the sincere encouragenent of their friends, the men's father, who was
the head of the house, stubbornly refused to give his consent to their mar-
riage for the reason that she was against the family tradition as she was
a Christian and, besides, an office clerk. But, thinking that it would be
against nature to wait for years to obtain the old man's consent, since
they had already reached the age which legally authorizes free marri-
age, they were finally united as man and wife in the Church, at their
friends' recommendation. Even after that, they made every effort to
pursuade the father to give his formal consent to the marriage but all
in vain. Adamant in his attitude, the father finally disinherited the
man, who was his eldest son, ard had his name removed fiom the
family register, justifying this drastic measure as "the only possible
16
:

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
means to take for the family member who acts against the family
rules."
This father was by no means a bad person. He is simply a
vict'm of the family system. Indignant at seeing his authority as the
head of the house, of which he is unshakably convinced, disregardced,
he has failed to appreciate the real character of the girl, who is to be
his daughter-in-law. A certain old census officer in a village office
near Morioka City, once told me: "It is impossible to get the actual
number of cases of marriages and divorces in this district, because
brides are married to 'houses' and, therefore, they are very often
divorced, when they are not found satisfactory to the houses, before
their names are even entered in the family registers. It is usual
thit their names are left unregistered for one or two years, and so, the
vil age office is quite unaware of actual number of divorces of such
nature which tak: place during that period."
The status of women is said to be the measure of the development
of civilization of a society. In fact, it becomes clear that Japanese
women are still under the yoke of feudalistic influences, if we consult
the marriage and divorce laws in the existing Civil Code. So far as
the position of wonten is concerned, marriage, which should nmean their
lifelong happiness, is necessarily considered on the basis of a "house"
but never keynoted by the personality of their husbands. Even if a
"house" or "lineage" may be taken up for consideration, respect
of the personality of wives is utterly disregarded. The Civil Code
provides that a wife doss not enjoy the freedom of conducts, be they
personal, of property or concerning business, these requiring her
husband's permission. The wife's conducts without her husband's
permission may be cancelled by the latter. Let me ci.e an extreme case
16

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
in this connection. When a wife borrows money from some person
on her own responsibility in her husband's alsence, the husband, on
returning from the journey, will be authorized to take back the money
she has paid back, even if it was loaned her as relief money by the
kindness of the lender, so long as it is not proved that the husband's
whereabouts was unknown during his absence. However, nothing is
more outrageous than the stipulation in the Civil Code that a wife can-
not even "accept or refuse a donation" without her husband's permis-
sion. This means that a wife must Temain a puppet without her own
volition. According to the Civil Code, an unmarried woman of over
twenty years of age is a competent person just as a man is, although
marriage turns her into an incompetent person. This stipulation can
be interpreted only in the light that marriage produces as its cffect
the incompetency of a wife as a means to impose upon her con plete
submission to her husband.
Adultery is taken up as the cause of divorce, only against a
wife. In justification of this unfair and partial treatment, it is ex-
plained that, although adultery committed by a husband does not directly
affect his lineage, that commited by his wife does generally stain the
family line. Earlier in the Meiji eia there were some progressive
scholars like Dr. Shigejiro Ogava, who bravely insisted on the legal
equality between man and wife in this regard against swaying public
opinion. When, in 1919, the Temporary. Legislative Deliberative
Council was formed for reviewing the provisions of the Civil Code
which may not conform to good morals and wholesome manners tradi-
tional to this country, Dr. Tatsukichi Minobe censured the system to
charge wives only with illicit intercourse. Opposing him, Dr. Yoshiro
Sakatani said that, in view of the traditional practice in this country,
which hinges on the family system, to allow a husband to keep a
17

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
concubine very often with his wife's understanding, in order to main-
tain his lineage unbroken, it was prohlemitical to denounce this custom
a; an act of conjugal infidelity. When in the same Deliberative
Council an article in th: Civil Code regarding the causes of divorce
was taken up for discussion, the majority opinion was in favour of
removing the passage saying: " When a wife has received an extemely
unreasonable treatment from her consort's lineal ascendants," for the
reason that it implied the parents-in-law's cruelty to her. Yet, they
insisted on retaining the passage which says: " When his consort has
given an extremely unreasonable treatmont to his lineal ascendants " as
one of the principal causes of divorce in favour of a husband. In this
way, an act of cruelty committed ly a wife to her husband's parent;
was sufficient cause for divorcing the wife, while the opposite case
was removed from among the causes of divorce. The conciusion reach-
ed by t e Delib:rative Council proved cnly to reinforce the family
system, failing to contribute anything to the improvement cf the posi-
tion of a married woman.
Later Prof. Takigawa of the Kyōto Imperial University asserted
the equality of man and wife in regard to their respensibility for il-
licit intercourse, but pressure by the Government at authorities finally
banished him from the University. In this country, still beset with
feudal customs, as a marriage contraet is concluded with only second-
ary importance given to the intentions of the young man and the girl,
so is divorce, as they cannot divorce each other without their parents'
consent, when they are under twenty five years of age. This is jus-
tified as the means to protect a young couple from resorting to a
reckless divorce, but in reality they are divorced very often at the
whim of the wife's parents-in-law, even against their intentions. In
the worst case, a young wife finds her divorce registered without her
1
18
7

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
knowledge. It is generaily admitted by jurists in this country that
conjugal separation has seldom been effected as a divorce by mutual
consent based on the free will of both.parties, but usually in the form
of "casting off of a wife" for the conven ence of the "hou.e."
19

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
. III
As outlined ahove, the head of a house exercises a very strong
power over his family members, sometines side by side with the father,
who has already left the position of the head of a house. These
superiors of the house enjoy the so-called "chastising right" which
can be exercised even over the family members of age. Mcreover,
they have the "right to give permission to the family members under
age to follow a profession." This right undoubtedly has contributed
a great deal to the grievous practice in Japanese ruial villages to sell
out the daughters as prostitutes or geisha girls. To make the situation
still worse, these country girls have often left their folks to follow a
shamefel calling, encouraged by he mistaken idea that to sacrifice
themselves for their house was a virtue of the female sex.
But it is gratifying to find that, in accordance with advice given
by the Occupation Forces, the Labor Standards Law, recently pro-
mulgated, stipulates the prohibition of borrowing money in advance
for any contracts restricting the future of children. Novertheless, when
we consider that selling one's children into slavery through borrowing
money in advance has long formed a custom almost universal to all
poor rural villages, which is closely bound up with the family system,
we are led to the conclusion that, unless this feudalistic family system
is broken down through the conscientious interp etation of the New
Constitution as well as the wholesome enforc ment of the Civil Code,
it will remain as an extremely difficult task to-stamp out this evil
custom. This inhuman practice of borrowing money in advance on
20

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
security of one's children's employment is after all attributed to the
fact that hitherto the S ate offered no protection to individuals, and
the people were placed under the absolute control of their respective
houses, whi h are isolated from each other to form an independent.
world by its If. Indeed, i is a world, which is beyond the reach of
rationalism or any social refornatory theories, being sanctified in the
name of the family system.
Under the feudalistic family system, every person is destined to
belong to some " house" or other, cither as its head or member. The
position of the head of a house is unique. He is given the right to
exercise control over all the family members, just as he has the obli-
gation to sustain the family members for society or the State: he en-
joys the right of succession to a house, which entitles him to monopolize
the estate, while for this a legal heir presumptive is prohibited from
leaving his house; the head of a house cannot bring his house to ex-
tinction. In the case of the head of a house, he is allowed to dispose
arbitrarily of the inherited estate -without any restraint.
According to the report on the field study conducted in Oshikiri
Village, Yamagata prefecture, already quoted, " the positionof the head
of a house is elevated as its wealth increases. It is common to landlords
and tenants that the head of a house has a special seat called Yokoza at
the dining-table. Until some time ago, the head of a house, possessing
a farm of 4 or 5 chobu in area, used to cat alone in a separate seat ex-
clusive to his use, being served with a better meal than that for other
family members, cousisting of more courses and employing a superior
quality of dishes and plates. While the rest of the family members
were eating together on the wooden floor, he alone would eat in a
matted room, with somebody waiting on him. The position of a wo-
21

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
man, married into such a house, is necessarily very low, being commonly
considered as a means to maintain the lineage. Even in the case of a
man, when he has married an heiress, he is often treated so coldly
after the birth of a child that he finds it unbearable to stay in that
house. It is no wonder, therefore, that a married woman should find
her position so negligible that she is regarded as "a means, to give
birth to a child."
It is under these circumstances, that a widow is often forced to
marry her deceased husband's brother for the sake of the house, while
her sincere desire to lead the remainder of her life in the cherished
memory of her husband being overridden as improper and selfish. A
married woman in Japan seldom shares her life with her husband.
Willingly or unwillingly, she is forced to serve the house, into which she
has married. Even when a woman has married a man out of mutual
affection and dearly loves her children, the hardships and difficulties
she has to experience as a wife and mother amidst all kinds of restric-
tions of the "house" are really unbearable.
In a book entitled " The Life of Women," Prof. Zennosuke Na-
kagawa introduces to the reader representative cases relative to the
family system, which were collected by the legal information office
run by the students of Tohoku Imperial University, where he is a
professor, as part of their field researches. One of the cases which
I want to quote here is of a girl called Kinuko, who married into a
farmer's house of considerable wealth at the desire of his second son.
In the third year of their married life, however, her husband suddenly
died of pneumonia, leaving her with a little child to lock after. As
she was devoted to her husband, there was no reason at all that she
should find any difficulties in remaining in her deceased husband's
22

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
house as the mother of the child. But in reality the death of her
husband gradually led her into a difficult position. When the property
in the name of her dead husband was transferred to the little child,
she, as its mother, was to take charge of it as the person-in parental
authority. But this gave no pleasant feeling to her brother-in-law, who
as the eldest son and the head of the house he possessed, began to
treat her as a nuisance. Unable to renmain indifferent to the treatment
his daughter was receiving there, the father of the widow at last pro-
posed to the head of the house to bring her back to his hou:e. But
to this the latter replied that he would have her name removed from
his family register but would not let the little child go with her as it
belonged to his house. When the father entreated him to let his daughter
take care of the child until it would be old enough to go without its
mother's care, her brother-in-law flatly refused it on the prctext that
there wouli be no excuse for him to make to his forefathers to see
hereditary property transferred to another house with the child. The
position of poor Kinuko became worse. Since her freedom of conduct
was at the mercy of the right of conscnt enjoyed by the head of the
house, there was no other course for her to follow than to submit
to the life of extreme humilation in the gloomy heuse, this being all
the more so as she was determined to live at any cost with her child.
Even if she might flee back to her parcnts' house for shelter with her
beloved child, it would be futile because under the feudalistic family
system the head of the house would remeve her name only frem his
family register and bring back the child to his house by force of his
right to designate the domiciles of his family members.
Another case contained in this book fully depicts the position of
a married woman amidst the complexity of a feudalistic "house." A
certain girl, who was the daughter of a respectable merchant, married
20

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
a Government official. After spending a few days very amicably with
the parents-in-law and other in-laws following the wedding ceremony
held in the bridegroom's house in the country, the newly married couple
went to Tokyo, where he was working, to make their home. Peaceful
days passed on and a child was born to them. But when the child
was about four years old, air raids in Tokyo finally compelled the
family to evacuate to the husband's house in the country. However,
with her husband staying in Tokyo to attend to his office duties, the
young wife was to face alone all the troubles arising between her in-
laws. The attitude of her father-in-law towards her was so extremely
tyrannical that she was very often abused and sometimes even beaten
by him when she was at fault. Her mother-in-law was a good-n tured
woman, but before the absolute headship of the feudalistic house she
had no voice at all. Under the circumstances, his antagonism against
her increased daily which she patiently bore. Then her husband was
reassigned to a town near his native place and joined to live with his
family people in the house. But this only served to add to the com-
plexity of the house. An obedient sun to his father, he could do
nothing to help alleviate his wife's difficulties. One day when he was
away from home on duty, the father-in-law was so enraged over a trifle
quarrel with her that he insisted on her divorce. Her husband made
every effort to soothe down his enraged father in defense of her wife,
but all in vain. There was no other way left for the wife but to be
divorced and wait for a future chance to be forgiven for her fault.
There was no denying that her husband should have defended her at
all cost, if he was really sincere to her. But it would be more to the
point to say that, having been long trained to obey the indisputable
power of his father as the head of the house, he was subnmitting him-
self to inevitable resignation. Parting with her husband and eaving
24

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
her beloved child in his hands, she took up a position as a matron in
a hospital in order to support herself. Often hiding herself under the
eaves of her hu band's house and secretly gazing her child's shadow-
figure falling on the paper sliding-doors, she would wait for the day
when she could reunite with her dear ones.
The author of the beok comments on this case with the following
words: " Even if this narrative is a little exaggerated in depicting the
helpless position f a married woman under the patriarchal family sys-
tem, I think it claims value as a story giving information as to reali-
ties in the Japanese house."
T
25

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
IV
Not very rarely is it found in rural villages that, along with the
head of a house, the eldest son even still under age, is left to indulge
in selfishness and arrogance due to his privileged consciousness, which
comes from his right to inhe:it the head-hip of the house. In this
conneetion, I wan: to quote a letter sent me from a raral girl, who is
a primary schoo! teacher, complaining of similar situation in her own
house. The letter says in part: "I am one of the school teachers wno
had the honour of attending the lecture you gave the other day in
Shinshu. Feeling that, since I met you and listened to your lecture,
you hive become a person closer to me, I venture to write you in the
hope thit you will kindly enlighten me on a question which is greatly
troubling me. I am one of those persons who are eagerly looking
forward to the time, when the revision of the Constitution, now under
discussion in the Diet, will result in the abrogation of the provisions
of the Civil Code pertaining to the feudalistic right of primogeniture.
I myself support the draft proposed by the Social Democratic Party,
which is 'to limit inheritance to property and vest wife and children
with the equal right of inheritance, replacing the primogeniture.' I
think the misery a home suffers from the existing. system under the
feudalistic Civil Code is really beyond description. By stating how
badly my own home is suffering from the primogeniture and prepon-
derance of the eldest son, I want to invite serious attention of the
statesmen."
This girl has five sisters and one brother, who is the youngest of
28

=== Page 38 === (confidence 1.00)
them all but the heir to the house. Since the days when this boy
was still very young, his grand-father, who is the head of the house,
has lavished his love on him, professing that as a son is essential to
the Japanese family system, it was natural that the house should depend
on the grand-son. Under such circumatances, the brother was gradually
brought up into a man outrageously out of control. The mother, who
is a woman c ming from another house and not primarily belong-
ing to this house, had no voice at all in family matters, found herself
quite helpless at the outrageous attitude of her son, who was acting
under the shelter of the influence of his grand-f:ther and the head
of the house. In the meantime, he married a girl, which fact seemed
to promise an improvement in this situation. But, contrary to expec-
tations of his mother and sisters, a disagreement arising between the
young wife and her mother-in-law proved only to worsen it. This
family trouble drove the helpless mother and the sisters into an in-
creasingly difficult position. Pressed by the shortage of food, some
of the sisters who had been married to the houses in the near-by towns,
would visit their parents' house for some vegetables or greens, the
brother would treat them harshly, saying that as even a particle of
dust in his house belonged to him, they could not get anything with-
out his permission. Being placed in a dilemma between the grand-
father and his son, her father was comforting himself with the thought
that a bad elder son was a misfortune of the house, to which one must
submit. "My house may be one of the rare cases. But I believe that
there exists no small number of houses in rural villages, where one
of their male members is lording over them like a tyrant under the
feudalistic family system," closes this letter.
As a result of the practice that only the eldest son is given pre-
dominant position in succession to a house, almost all the property under
27

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
the management of the preceding head of the house is inherited by
him, preferential to his younger brothers. What is mainly intended
under this system is to prevent the property for inheritance from being
scattered, on the basis of such contingents as the sex, the order of
birth, etc. I ut no consideration is paid at all to the ba-ic rights of
individual members of the hcu-e. Especially in the case of a wife.
she is entirely excluded from the list of inheritors to property. As
mention was already made of it, marriage robs a woman of her
right as its legal effect in regard to property. The most unreason-
able case would be when a husband has been survived by his wife, leay
ing a child born by nother woman, which he had legally recognized
as his child by having its name entered in his family register with-
out her knowledge. The death of her husband entitles this child to
succeed to his property, while on the other hand, imposing on it the
responsibility to take care of its father's legitimate wife. Thus, she
finds herself in a position extremely unreasonable and hard. Since,
however, a wife must fall back on some person or other for sustenance
for lack of any property to possess or to inherit, whether or net she
can inherit property left by her deceased husbind reilly means a
question of her subsistence.
Under the feudalistic family system, which essentially attaches
the foremost importance to the heir of a house in order to avoid its
discontinuxtion, it is forbidden that the head of a house and his heir
enter into another house. When therefore, a young man and a girl
desiring to marry happen to be an heir and an heiress, their marriage
is confronted with extreme difficulties. Even though it may be legally
possible to take proceedings for the disinheritance of one of the party
in order to realize their intended marriage, such a procedure is resorted
to by only. a few people. In the majority of cases, the heir and the
28

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
heiress marry to make a home without having their mirriage officially
registered on account of the troublesome procedure and the necessary
expenses. The child born to them is, at best, destined to be an il-
legitimate child and, in the worst case, is registered as the wife's
natur 1 child. Tragedy occurs when the husband dies leaving his wife
and his child in this state, because under no protectien by law, neither
the wife nor the child cin inherit even a bi: of the property left by
her hu-band or his father, de-pite the indisputable fact that they were
forming the common family with the deceased person. To help realize
the intended marriage of an heiress, lawyers might direct her what
procedure she should tike. The first thing to do is to adopt her
newly-born cousin into her house as its heir. As a male precedes
female in the order of inheritance of a house, she can now make an
official report on her marringe, leaving her house. But once this re-
port has been accepted, it is possible to have the child's name removed
from her family register into that of her uncle's family.
In the actual life of the majority of the people, however, succes-
sion to their houses is a matter which hardly has any weight and the
meaning of the law providing it is the last thing they can really
understand. Practically, they live in indifference to what the law
stipulates. Yet we see many an heiress who has fallen victim to the
unreasenable provisions of the law. The fact that this contradiction
existing between realities of the people's life and the provisions of the
law has long been overlooked and failed to be given serious consider-
ation, at the sacrifice of innumerable members of the female sex, is
indeed a matter which demands our profound reflection. Many scho-
lars consider this phenomenon as an effect of the Emperor system of
Japan, rather than attributing it to a feudalistic idea.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
On this problem, Prof. Zennosuke Nakagawa says in an article " On
the Family System" he published (Choryu, 1946, March) as follows:
"' Justice to cope with the relations between sovereign and subject; af-
fection proper for the relationship between father and sons' is the say-
ing long repeated among our people, which is tantamount to saying  the
Imperial House is the main house of the entire people. This may be
said to have been the national conviction of our people. Indeed, it
has been considered that since our forefathers were the relatives in
blood of the descendant of the Sun Goddess who assisted the latter
a: his subordinate deities in the founding of this Empire, all our fa-
mily lines can be eventually traced back into the direct lineage of the
Imperial House. Granting, however, that this is the national convic-
tion of our people, it is impossible to prove that the Imperial House
is the main house of us all, if the investigation is conducted in the
light of historical facts. From this standpoint, we arrive at the con-
clusion that such national cults as ancestor-worship or service to the
memory of the ancestors contain a great deal of fictitious elements.
This means that, in many instances, the ancestors as the objectives of
those cuits are not definitely known. Nevertheless, many of our people
adhere to the idea, solely on the basis of traditional conviction, that
these cults are peculiar to, and characteristic of, our people. Althongh
1
they may hold the conviction that, even if their ancestors cannot
definitely be identified, they are the same deities whó far back in the
age of gods participated in the great task of founding this Empire,
this traditional conviction is, as already pointed out, historically un-
grounded. Therefore, in the society of today and tomorrow, which
hinges on rationalism and positivism, it is inevitable that it will be
brought under re-examination. I find today no necessity of criticizing
it or occupying ourselves with the remoulding of it into something
different. Let it go as it is. But we should be fully aware of the
30

=== Page 42 === (confidence 1.00)
danger to insist on the historical truth of this conviction and to present
it as the basis of actual government or legislation."
Taking up, for example, the difficult situation under which the
marriage of the only daughter of a house finds herself, he then com-
ments on the problem as follows: "When drafting the Civil Code,
the law-makers exercised their ingenuity in preventing the extinction
of houses, by mainly taking into consideration houses of distinction or
old origin. But in the majoriy of cases, there are in reality only
a few people who can trace back their lineage beyond several genera-
tions, while most of them are indifferent to such matter as the extinction
of their houses, even in their own generation. Yet, all of them share
the same conviction that their ancestors, even if not very clearly tra-
ceable, are among the deities who assisted the Imperial ancestors in
the dawn of history and that they eventually belong to the Imperial
House, which forms their main house. This idea of the main house is
rich in metaphorical elements, since their lineages are not only distinctly
untraceable, but they are also connected, in some cases, with naturalized
foreign people. Vague as it is in its character, this traditional convic-
tion does supply very powerful motives for the solidarity of our people.
But since this idea is a matter of traditional conviction held by the peo-
ple, which cannot be positively proved, it would be impossible to apply
it to all family matters without inviting the criticism that the family
system thereby characterized brings a meaningless yoke upon the life
of the people. Viewed in this light, it is clear that the family sys-
tem of this country requires today a positive explanation founded on
a more rational basis. The imposition on the people of such a ficti-
tious conviction as 'the family state' will sooner or later prove incap.
able of maintaining the family system."
31

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
As this article suggests, what demands reflection in connection
with the family system is the plain fact that the "law" in the feudalistic
privileged society, which attaches importance to matters not so serious
to the general people, has been imposed upon them as the " law' by
which they should abide.
32

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
V
We have so far tried to clarify that the "house" under the feu-
dalistic family system cin no longer claim its existence among the
people. In some exceptional cases, as in a certain district of Hida
Province of Central Japan, a. major, pluralistic family (which is
composed of many families living together under one roof), may still
be found existing as the form of family most typical of the feudalistic
family community. Generally speaking, however, the " house" has now
come to have no significance at all for the people (useful only in
connection with the census register) which ha: nothing to do with the
life of most people. Dealing with this problem, Prof. Nakagawa says:
"The greatest question in this connection is the loss of the eco-
nomic functions of the house. Although the house was primarily a
society or group formed for production, it is now being disintegrated
with the increasing importance of the productive activities of indivi-
duals. It is true that some types of the house in the original sense
are still to be seen in rural or fishing villages, but I believe it is no
exaggeration to say that the family system has, for the most part,
been destroyed, so far as its form is concerned."
Prof. Sakae Wagatsuma, too, says as follows: " According to my
view, the 'family system' pictured by its advocates is singularly
characterized by an ethical significance. However, the stipalations in
the Civil Code concerning the family system are in fact its props in
terms of law in modern society. An ethical norm can be an object
33

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
by itself, but the legal system to support it is confined in its nature
to be a means of accomplishing this object. Even its raison d'etre as
a means, can be justified only when it is designed for the accom-
pli-hment of the ethical object. With the change of time, however,
the legal system has come to be found not only useless as a means for
the object, but also an impediment to some phases of social progress."
In the face of the fact that the "house" embracing all its members
under its roof is rapidly decreasing in number and its head is losing
his economic power, an unreasonably powerful right continues to be
given the 'house' or its head, offering an impediment to the im-
provement of the status of individuals and aggravating the already
miserable position of women and other powerless members. Herein
lies the reason why the feudalistic family system is still exerting
considerable influence over the people, even though its foundations,
social and economic, have already collapsed. As long as this peculiar
situation continues to exist, it would be impossible to say that the
spiritual basis of militarism deeply rooted in this nation has been
completely destroyed.
Around the democratic new Constitution, the attention of all
serious people is now rapidly being directed to anything feudalistic
for criticism or reflection. Japanese women are especially looking
forward to the revision of the Civil Code with great expectations.
Under the situation, general attention is increasingly focused on
various problems concerning the family system, as may be gathered
from the fact that neärly half of the correspondences sent by women
to the Women's Hour Section of the Japan Broadcasting Corporation
during the period from January to March, 1947, were related in some
way or other with the family system. Of these correspondences, com-
34.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
house as the mother of the child. But in reality the death of her
husband gradually led her into a difficult position. When the property
in the name of her deai husband was transferred to the litle child,
she, as its mother, was to take charge of it as the person in parental
authority. But this gave no pleasant feeling to her brother-in-law, who
as the eldest son and the head of the house he possessed, began to
treat her as a nuisance. , Unable to remain indifferent to the treatment
his daughter was receiving there, the father of the widow at last pro-
posed to the head of the house to bring her back to his house. But
to this the latter replied that he would have her name removed from
his family register but would not let the little child go with her as it
belonged to his house. When the father entreated him to let his daughter
take care of the child until it would Le old enough to go without its
mother's care, her brother-in-law flatly refused it on the prttext that
there would be no excuse for him to make to his forefathers to see
hereditary property transferred to another house with the child. The
position of poor Kinuko became worse. Since her freedom of conduct
was at the mercy of the right of cons(nt enjoyed by the head of the
house, there was no other course for her to follow than to submit
to the life of extreme humilation in the gloomy house, this being all
the more so as she was determined to live at any cost with her child.
Even if she might flee back to her parents' house for shelter with her
beloved child, it would be futile because under the feudalistic family
system the head of the house would remove her name only from his
family register and bring back the child to his house by force of his
right to designate the domiciles of his family members.
Another case contained in this book fuly depicts the position of
a married woman amidst the complexity of a feudalistic "house." A
certain girl, who was the daughter of a respectable merchant, married
23

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
a Government official. After spending a few days very amicably with
the parents-in-law and other in-laws following the wedding ceremony
held in the bridegroom's house in the cofintry, the newly married couple
went to Tokyo, where he was working, to make their home. Peaceful
days pas-ed on and a child was born to them. But when the child
was about four years old, air raids in Tokyo finally compelled the
family to evacuate to the husband's house in the country. However,
with her husband staying in Tokyo to attend to his office duties, the
young wife was to face alone all the troubles arising between her in-
laws. The attitude of her father-in-law towards her was so extremely
tyrannical that she was very often abused and sometires even beaten
by him when she was at fault. Her mother-in-law was a good-natured
woman, but before the absolute headship of the feudalistic house she
had no voice at all. Under the circumstances, his antagonism against
her increased daily which she patiently bore. Then her husband was
reassigned to a town near his native place and joined to live with his
family people in the house. But this only served to add to the com-
plexity of the house. An obedient son to his father, he cou'd do
nothing to help alleviate his wife's difficulties. One day when he was
away from home on duty, the father-in-law was so enraged over a trifle
quarrel with her that he insisted on her divorce. Her hushand made
every effort to soothe down his enraged father in defense of her wife,
but all in vain. There was no cther way left for the wife but to be
divorced and wait for a future chance to be forgiven for her fault.
There was no denying that her husband should have defended her at
all cost, if he was really sincere to her. But it would be more to the
point to say that, having been long trained to obey the indisputable
power of his father as the head of the heuse, he was submitting him-
self to inevitable resignation. Parting with her husband and eaving
24

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
her beloved child in his hands, she took up a position as a matron in
a hospital in order to support herself. Often hiding herself under the
eaves of her hu-band's house and secretly gazing her child's shadow-
figure falling on the paper sliding-doors, she would wait for the day
when she could reunite with her dear ones.
The author of the hook comments on this case with the following
words: " Even if this narrative is a little exaggerated in depicting the
helpless position of a married womin under the patriarchal family sys-
tem, I think it claims value as à story giving information as to reali-
ties in the Japanese house."
25

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
iV
一
Not very rately is it found in vural villages that, along with the
head of a house, the eldest son even still under age, is left to indulge
in selfishness and arregance due to his privileged consciousness, which
comes from his right to inherit the headship of the house. In this
connection, I want to quote a letter sent me from a raral girl, who is
a primary school teacher, complaining of similar situation in her own
house. The letter says in part: "I am one of the school teachers who
had the honour of attending the lecture you gave the other day in
Shinshu. Feeling that, since I met you and listened to your Iecture,
you hive become a person closer to me, I venture to write you in the
hope that you will kindly enlighten me on a question which is greatly
troubling me. I am one of those persons who are eagerly looking
forward to the time, when the revision of the Constitution, now under
discussion in the Diet, will result in the abrogation of the provisions
of the Civil Code periaining to the feudalistic right of primogeniture.
I myself support the draft proposed by the Social Democratic Party,
which is 'to limit inheritance to property and vest wife and children
with the equal right of inheritance, replacing the primogeniture.' I
think the misery a home suffers from the existing system under the
feudalistic Civil Code is really beyond description. By stating how
badly my own home is suffering from the primogeniture and prepon-
derance of the eldest son, I want to invite serious attention of the
statesmen."
This girl has five sisters and one brother, who is the youngest of
28
9

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
them all but the heir to the house. Since the days when this boy
was still very young, his grand-father, who is the head of the house,
has lavished his love on him, professing that as a son is essential to
the Japanese family system, it was natural that the house should depend
on the grand-son. Under such circumatances, the brother was gradually
brought up into a man outrageously out of control. The mother, who
is a woman c ming from another house and not primarily belong-
ing to this house, had no voice at all in family matters, found herself
quite helpless at the outrageous attitude of her son, who was acting
under the shelter of the influence of his grand-fither and the head
of the house. In the meantime, he married a girl, which fact seemed
to promise an improvement in this situation. But, contrary to expec-
tations of his mother and sisters, a disagreement arising between the
young wife and her mother-in-law prcved only to worsen it. This
family trouble drove the helpless mother and the sisters into an in-
creasingly difficult position. Pressed by the shortage of food, some
of the sisters who had been married to the houses in the near-by towns,
would visit their parents' house for some vegetables or greens, the
brother would treat them harshly, saying that as even a particle of
dust in his house belonged to him, they could not get anything with-
out his permission. Being placed in a dilemma between the grand-
father and his son, her father was comforting himself with the thought
that a bad elder son was a misfortune of the house, to which one must
submit. "My house may be one of the rare cases. But I believe that
there exists no small number of houses in rural villages, where one
of their male members is lording over them like a tyrant under the
feudalistic family system," closes this letter.
As a result of the practice that only the eldest son is given pre-
dominant position in succession to a house, almost all the property under
27

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
the management of the preceding head of the house is inherited by
him, preferential to his younger brothers. What is mainly intended
under this system is to prevent the property for inheritance from being
scattered, on the basis of such contingents as the sex, the order of
birth, etc. Iut no consideration is paid at all to the ba ic rights of
individual members of the hou-e. Especially in the case of a wife,
she is entirely excluded from the list of inheritors to property. As
mention was already made of it, marriige robs a woman of her
right as its legal effect in regard to property. The most unreason-
able case would be when a hu-band has been survived by his wife, leay-
ing a child born by another woman, which he had legally recognized
as his child by having its name entered in his fimily register with-
out her knowledge. The death of her husband entitles this child to
succeed to his property, while on the other land, imposing on it the
responsibility to take care of its father's legitimate wife. Thus, she
finds herself in a position extremely unreasonable and hird. Since,
however, a wife must fall back on some person or other for sustenance
for lack of any property to possess or to inherit, whether or net she
can inherit property left by her deceased husbind really means a
question of her subsistence.
Under the feudalistic family system, which essentially attaches
the foremost importance to the heir of a house in order to avoid its
discontinuation, it is forbidden that the hend of a house and his heir
enter into another house. When therefore, a young man and a girl
desiring to marry happen to be an heir and an heiress, their marriage
is confronted with extreme difficulties. Even though it may be legally
possible to take proceedings for the disinheritance of one of the party
in order to realize their intended marriage, such a procedure is rezorted
to by only a few people. In the majority of cases, the heir and the
28

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
heiress marry to make a home without having their marriage officially
registered on account of the troublesome procedure and the necessary
expenses. The child born to them is, at best, destined to be an i!-
legitimite child and, in the worst case, is registered as the wife's
natur I child. Tragedy occurs when the husband dies leaving his wife
and his child in this state, because under no protection by law, neither
the wife nor the child can inherit even a bi: of the property left by
her hu-band or his father, despite the indisputable fact that they were
forming the common family with the deceased person. To help realize
the intended marriage of an heiress, lawyers might direct her what
procedure she should tike. The first thing to do is to adopt her
newly-born cousin into her house as its heir. As a male precedes
female in the order of inheritince of a house, she can now make an
official report on her marringe, leaving her house. But once this re-
port has been accepted, it is possible to have the hild's name removed
from her family register into that of her uncle's family.
In the aciual life of the majority of the people, however, succes-
sion to their houses is a matter which hardly has any weight and the
meaning of the law providing it is the last thing they can really
understand. Practically, they live in indifference to what the law
stipulates. Yet we see many an heiress who has fallen victim to the
unreasonable provisions of the law. 'The fact that this contradiction
existing between realities of the people's life and the provisions of the
law has long been overlooked and failed to be given serious consider-
ation, at the sacrifice of innumerable members of the, female sex, is
indeed a matter which demands our profound reflectien. Many scho-
lars consider this phenomenon as an effect of the Emperor system of
Japan, rather than attributing it to a feudalistic idea.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 1.00)
On this problem, Prof. Zennosuke Nakagawa says in an article " On
the Family System" he published (Choryu, 1946, March) as follows:
"' Justice to cope with the relations between sovereign and subject; af-
fection proper for the relationship between father and sons' is the say-
ing long repeated among our people, which is tantamount to saying 'the
Imperial House is the main house of the entire people.' This may e
said to have been the national conviction of our people. Indeed, it
has been considered that since our forefathers were the relatives in
blood of the descendant of the Sun Goddess who assisted the latter
as his subordinate deities in the founding of this Empire, all our fa-
mily lines can be eventually traced back into the direct lineage of the
Imperial House. Granting, however, that this is the national convic-
tion of our people, it is impossible to prove that the Imperial House
is the main house of us all, if the investigation is conducted in the
light of historical facts. From this standpoint, we arrive at the con-
clusion that such national cults as ancestor-worship or service to the
memory of the ancestors contain a great deal of fictitious clements.
This means that, in many instances, the ancestors as the objectives of
those cults are not definitely known. Nevertheless, many of our people
adhere to the idea, solely on the basis of traditional conviction, that
these cults are peculiar to, and characteristic of, our people. Althongh
they may hold the conviction that, even if their ancestors cannot
definitely be identified, they aie the same deities who far back in the
age of gods participated in the great task of founding this Empire,
this traditional conviction is, as already pointed out, historically un-
grounded. Therefore, in the society of today and tomorrow, which
hinges on rationalism and positivism, it is inevitable that it will be
brought under re-examination. I find today no necessity of criticizing
it or occupying ourselves with the remoulding of it into something
different. Let it go as it is. But we should be fully aware of the
30

=== Page 54 === (confidence 1.00)
danger to insist on the historical truth of this conviction and to present
it as the basis of actual government or legislation."
. Taking up, for example, the difficult situation under which the
marriage of the only daughter of a house finds herself, he then com-
ments on the problem as follows: "When drafting the Civil Code,
the law-makers exercised their ingenuity in preventing the extinction
of houses, by mainly taking into consideration houses of distinction or
old origin. But in the majoriy of cases, there are in reality only
a few people who can trace back their lineage beyond several genera-
tions, while most of them are indifferent to such matter as the extinction
of their houses, even in their own generation. Yet, all of them share
the same conviction that their ancestors, even if not very clearly tra-
ceable, are among the deities who assisted the Imperial ancestors in
the dawn of history and that they eventually belong to the Imperial
House, which forms their main house. This idea of the main house is
rich in metaphorical elements, since their lineages are not only distinctly
untraceable, but they are also connected, in some cases, with naturalized
foreign people. Vague as it is in its character, this traditional convic-
tion does supply very powerful motives for the solidarity of our people.
But since this idea is a matter of traditional conviction held by the peo-
ple, which cinnot be positively proved, it would be impossible to apply
it to all family matters without inviting the criticism that the family
system thereby characterized brings a meaningless yoke upon the life
of the people. Viewed in this light, it is clear that the family sys-
tem of this country requires today a positive explanation founded on
a more rational basis. The imposition on the people of such a ficti-
tious conviction as 'the family state' will sooner or later prove incap-
able of maintaining the family system."
31

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
As this article suggests, what demands reflection in connection
with the family system is the plain fact that the 'law" in the feudalistic
privileged society, which attaches importance to matters not so serious
to the general people, has been imposed upon them as the " law" by
which they should abide.
32

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
We have so far tried to clarify that the "house" under the feu-
dalistic f.mily system cin no longer claim its existence among the
people. In some exceptional cases, as in a certain district of Hida
Province of Central Japan, a major, pluralistic family (which is
composed of many families living together under one roof), may still
be found existing as the form of family most typical of the feudalistic
family community. Generally speaking, however, the "house" has now
come to have no significance at all for the people (useful only in
connestion with the census register) which ha: nothing to do with the
life of most people. Dealing with this problem, Prof. Nakagawa says:
"The greatest question in this connection is the loss of the eco-
nomic function: of the house. Although the house was primarily a
society or group formed for production, it is now being disintegrated
with the increasing importance of the productive activities of indivi-
duals. It is true that some types of the house in the original sense
are still to be seen in rural or fishing villages, but I believe it is no
exaggeration to say that the family system has, for the most part,
been destroyed, so far as its form is concerned."
Prof. Sakae Wagatsuma, too, says as follows: "According to my
view, the 'family system' pictured by its advocates is singularly
characterized by an ethical significance. However, the stipulations in
the Civil Code concerning the family system are In fact its props in
terms of law in modern society. An ethical norm can be an object
33

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
by itself, but the legal system to support it is confined in its nature
to be a means of accomplishing this object. Even its raison d'etre as
a means, can be justified only when it is designed for the accom-
pli-hment of the ethical object. With the change of time, however,
the legal system has come to be found not only useless as a means for
the object, but also an impediment to some phases of social progress."
In the face of the fact that the " house" embracing all its members
under its roof is rapidly decreasing in number and its head is losing
his economic power, an unreasonably powerful right continues to be
given the 'house' or its head, offering an impediment to the im-
provement of the status of individuals and aggravating the already
miserable position of women and other powerless members. Herein
lies the reason why the feudalistic family system is still exerting
considerable influence over the people, even though its foundations,
social and economic, have already collapsed. As long as this peculiar
situation continues to exist, it would be impossible to say that the
spiritual basis of militarism deeply rooted in this nation has been
completely destroyed.
Around the democratic new Constitution, the attention of all
serious people is now rapidly being directed to anything feudalistic
for criticism or reflection. Japanese women are especially looking
forward ro the revision of the Civil Code with great expectations.
Under the situation, general attention is increasingly focused on
various problems concerning the family system, as may be gathered
from the fact that neärly half of the correspondences sent by women
to the Women's Hour Section of the Japan Broadcasting Corporation
during the period from January to March, 1947, were related in some
way or other with the family system. Of these correspondences, com-
34

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
plaints of troubles experienced by widows and young wives, numbered
the most, while problems between wives and their in-laws came next.
Some of the letters expressed the desire that radio comments be
made on the feudalistic status of wives for their emancipation. It
is significant that whenever there was a radio comment on the family
system, the commentator received letters of appreciation from the people
who listened in.
On the other hand, however, there still prevail opinions and views
that mislead the people who seek in earnest the right path. Strong
points of the family system, merits of feudalistic morals, and what not,
—these are the things repeatedly emphasized for the people in general.
In the article " Feudalistic Character of the Family System" published
in a certain magazine, Mr. Michio Aoyama touches upon th's problem
as follows:
"When discussions on the revision of the Constitution took place in
the recent session of the Diet, Premier Yoshida, in reply to an Tnterpel-
lation, boldly expressed his view on the family system by saying:
Although Article 22 of the new Constitution aims at discarding all
feudalistic elements from the family system, the system itself is a
wholesome custom of this country.' But what does the family system so
supported by the Premier realy mean? Does it signify that in Japan
there exists a family system transcending history, other than the fęuda-
listic or patriarchal family system? Even if the family sy_tem meant
by the Premier is to be taken as a system, under which national
organization essentially centers in a house, or a system, which embraces
not only a conjugal union, but also all members of the same line, from
the remotest ancestors to the farthest future generations, such an idea .
should rightly be branded as feudalistic. All this goes to show that
35

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Premier Yoshida's explanation is none other than a subtle camouflage of
the real nature of the family system. If the family system is taken as a
system to control family members in their conducts, in accordance with
sociological theories, the Premier might be right when rejecting 'feuda-
listic elements' of ' the.family system." In view of the fact, however,
that in actual society a family cannot exist without taking the form of a
family system and that the family system in this sense can be found
throughout the world, from such highly civilized countries as England,
the United States, etc. down to primitive tribal communities, it would
be an unscientific attitude which disregards facts. A confusion of
ideas on the family system can be detected even in a few words ex-
pressed by the Premier. It is common in this country that the family
system, even when implying a feudalistic or patriarchal one, is taken
as a system which transcends history and claims universality. This
naturally gives rise to contradictions and confusion of ideas about the
family system as it actually is. The prevalence of such a misinter-
pretation of this system should be attributed mostly to a group of
reactionary and conseryative scholars, who have served the Government
as its mouthpieces since the Meiji era.
"It is true that the family system of this country is singularly
featured by the historical fact that it has long contained patriarchal
elements. But the patrlarchal family system is undoubtedly a stage
whic every other civilized people has already gone through. A family
system controlled and organized by the patriarch is by no means a
phenomenon peculiar to Japan. History shows that the Hebrews, the
Romans, the Chinese, etc. once possessed a typical patriarchal family
system of their own, and even after the collapse of these ancient
 patriarchal families their relics long remained in the families in West-
ern Europe as lingering effects. In ancient Rome the word "Fami-
38

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
lia," the origin of " fam ly" in modern times, was used to mean all
things under the control of a patriarch, including his wife, children,
slaves, land and other real estate. The ancient Hebrews considered
women as property on the same level with cows, mules, etc. All this
shows that even in Western countries the emancipation of women has
never been accomplished with ease. It was only after the complete
collapse of the feudal regime effected through the French Revolution
and the Industrial Revolution, on cne hand, and on the other, the rise of
feminism brought about by_the elevation of women's self-consciousness,
which culminated in the remarkable advance they made in various fields
of social and economic activities in the years following the First World
War, that women in the West were able to acquire at high cost their
present position in society.
This is, indeed, a fact that throws much light for the emancipa-
tion movement of Japanese women. It is natural that this movement
in Japan should be much retarded as compared with the West, when
the longer duration of its patriarchal family system is taken into
account. Scholars apparently deny the existence of the patriarchal
right in this country as found in the Ancient Rome. Yet, there is no
denying that excessively powerful parental rights and the husband's
rights have long forced women to submission, while their exercise was
justified in the light of social justice. Those who read the " History
of Slaves in Japan," will be shocked to find numerous historical
instances showing how miserably Japanese women have been treated.
There is no doubt that the Meiji Restoration was in itself an epoch-
making revolution for overthrowing the feudal regime. But as it is
frequently pointed out, this revolution was not very thoroughgoing in.
manner, falling, as a result, far short of liquidating the patriarchal
and feudalistic elements of the family system. Later, when this family
7

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
sys em was crystallized into the Civil Code as he rules for its stan-
dardization, the position of women was not improved a bit substantially
over thit which they used to hold under the feudal regime, their
personality remaining to receive no equal recognition by men.' On
this greatest historical occasion the Japanese people should not repeat
the same folly they committed at the time of the Meiji Restoration.
38

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
In the face of numerous case; which betray the unreasonableness
of the feudalistic family system in relation to the individual life of
the people, the court has decided to rectify it through its decisions,
thus paving the way for the revision of the laws. For instance, the
article in the Civil Code stipulating the right of the head of a house
for removing the name of his family member fiom the family register,
(of which, mention was made in connection with the young widow
with a child who was suffering under the unreasonable exercise of the
head:hip of the house) was finally revised in 1941 so as to include
the passage " without any proper reason" as condition for the ex-
ercise of that right. Again, in 1940, the " Law Concerning Census
Reports by Mail or Delegation" was enacted to effect an easier pro-
cedure for the acknowledgement of a natural child (iliegitimate) whose
number wa; expected to increase during the wartime period. By this
law, illegitimate wives were enabled to make marriage reports even
after the death of their husbands, by going through the procedure of
recognition by delegation. On the other hand, the Supreme Court has
recognized through its decisions the obligation of a husband to be
faithful to his wife corresponding to the latter's obligation of chastity
to the former.
All that the court could do, however, for the rectification of the
evils of the family system was necessarily negative in nature and can
only minimize them under the existing Civil Code, which is essentially
designed for the protection of the feudalistic "house." When, there-
38

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
fore, the present Civil Code is revised in accordance with the spirit
of the New Constitution, it is expected that the new law will, besides
its proper functions, enlighten the people in the democratization of
their family life. But I believe that in this connection a step forward
should be made in the direction toward the improvement of the posi-
tion of women. What I mean is that, under the coming Civil Code,
economic independence should be guaranteed for women, who are
completely deprived of competency under the existing law. Although
the New Constitution stipulates: "Marriage shall be based only on the
mutual consent of both sexes," it will not sufficiently contribute to the
elevation of the position of women, who have hitherto been economi-
cally incompetent, since willy-nilly they will remain to be economically
dependent on their parents or " houses." This handicap to the female
sex, especially in this period of transition, is a serious impediment to
the path of democratization of the feudalistic family system of Japan.
Aiming at the acquisition of wedding expenses for the prospective
brides, trade unions are making good efforts for the settlement of this
problem facing the Japanese young women. It is, indeed, through
rendering economic guarantee for marriages that the democratization
of the Japanese people can be attained in a wholesome manner.
In an article entitled " Women Leaving their Houses" published
in a certain magazine, Mr.. Masamichi Royama says: "With the
imminent crumbling of the feudalistic family system, by which Japanese
women have long been enthralled, they are now experiencing revolu-
tionary changes, spiritual as well as material, of no small proportions.
Even if the family system might have been a yoke under which they
have been placed, it is undeniable that the feudalistic 'house' has
embraced them under its arms of stability and protection. This is
the fact which deserves full recognition. As eloquently shown by the
40

=== Page 64 === (confidence 1.00)
present revision effected in the Constitution and the Civil Code, the
family system is closely bound up with State organization. It is up
to the State, which has emancipated women from the feudalistic
'house,'to take care of them in the place of the head of the 'house.'
This emancipation of women does not only bring a serious revolution
to individual women, but it also imposes weighty responsibilities on
the State. I wonder how the Government will deal with this duty
newly imposed upon the State." I believe, however, that the democratic
life newly introduced to the people will not be one which gives shelter
and protection under the gloomy "house," but which promises fair
and reasonable protection by society.
41

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
4
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
THE JAPANESE FAMILY SYSTEM—AS SEEN FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF THE JAPANESE WOMEN, b Setsuko
Hani
THE PROBLEM OF THE EMPEROR SYSTEM IN POST-WAR
JAPAN, by Genji Okubo
FINANGIAL AND MONETARY SITUATION IN POST-WAR
JAAN, by Hyoye Oachi
GENERAL TREND OF JAPANESE OPINION FOLLOWING
THE END OF WAR, by Yasuo Tatsuki
SOmE ASPeCTS OF AGRARIAN ReFORM IN JaPAN, by
Shinrokuro Yamaguchi
RELIGION AND DEMOCRACY IN MODERN JAPAN, by
Tadao Yanaihara
Other studies are now under preparation
by
THE JAPAN INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC STUDIES
The International Publishing Co.
HEAD OFFICE
TOKYO OFFICE
612 6 th Floor Asahi Bldg.
4. 4-chome, Hongho
Nakanoshima, Kita-ku,
Nihonbashi, Chuð-ku
OSAKA
TOKYO

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Printed in Japan
日本婦人と家族制度
著者
羽
発行者
日本太平洋問題調查会
定價 五十円
東京都中央区銀座七ノ四日映别館
1948年3月30日印刷
印刷所
株式会社 高橋活版所
1948年4月5日発行
新潟市東堀前通り九香町
発賣元
國際出版株式会社
東京本社
東京都中央区日本橋本町四ノ四
電話茅場町(66) 3801.5058
振替東京 20444
大阪本社 大阪市北区中之烏朝日ビル
電話土佐堀(44) 1836. 3631
振替大阪119391
