894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., August 1, 1931 - July 2, 1934 (File 822), part 3 of 3
ID: 894.00-822-3   Pages: 349   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-17/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20August%201%2C%201931%20-%20July%202%2C%201934%20822-part-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
-17-
Japonaise, a cultural society, which aims to improve
Franco-Japanese relations through cultural bonds. The
society is more or less analagous to the America opan
Society though it lays emphasis on binding tho two coun-
tries together through artistic ana literary ties.
(h) Panama.
The JAPAN TIMES published on ctober 7 statistics
obtained from the Com ercial Bureau of the Panaman Covern-
ment which indicated that Japanese exports to that country
had increased so rapidly during the last few months that
the amount of these was second only to that of the United
States. It is claimed that Japanese goods have now
definitely displaced the British exports to that country,
which is not surnrising if the climed increase of six
hundred per cent since last January is correct. It is
oncible that this remarkable cuccess is responsible for
the unnounced plan of the  nistry of Commeree and In-
dustry to found a lrge treding comoany exclusivly for
the promotion of Jeoan's tr: de inter sts vith Central and
South America. This cony, which vould be founded under
joint investment of rivete tr: ders inter stec in Latin
American trade, voule be prant d n exeturive monopoly of
ny: interests, mor over,
ti is trade. i furlmr the
euter into
the J pr ese Goverm nt 
 courtries
agoti: ti neit
ia ort restrietions.
the JAPAN
In keeping
t provin cemand
11

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
18
with Central and South America for the easablishd
Japanese banking institution there, the abpn
of which it is claimed puts the Japanese merchant at
tremendous disadvantage.
(1) Poland.
On October 5, Michal Mosoicki, the new Polish Mini
to Japan, presented his credentials to the Emperor. In
statement issued by the Minister that day he emphasized
the steadily progressing economic intercourse between hi
country and Japan and gave expression to the hope that th
projected direct Gdynia-Kobe-Yokohama service, which would
soon be established, would greatly enhance Polish-Japanese
trade.
Mr. Habibullah Tarzi, the first Afghan Minister to
Japan, arrived in Tokyo on October 6.
N

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-19 -
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) Five Ministers' Conference.
Much interest was caused by and much publicity
given to, a series of five conferences, the last of whioh
was held on Uctober 21, attended by the Premier and the
Ministers for War, Navy, Fiance and Foreign Affairs.*
The purpose of the discussions, which were dubbed by the
local press " The Five Ministers' Conferences", is believed
to have been not only a broad discussion of the national
finance, defence, and foreign policy, but to reach a de-
finite decision on the enormous financial demands of the
armed services in connection with the present budget. The
idea of the crisis which Jupan wust face in the next two
years has been so played up by the military in supporting
its demands that until Baron Wakatsuki dared publicly to
cuestion the reality of this crisis it had been accepted
as more or less of a foregon conclusion by the public.
Emphasis was unuoubtedly l id during the course of these
discussions on the denleted condition of the national
treasury and the heovy tax burdens now borne by the Japanese
seople, but poarently th  rgum nts failed to curb the chau-
viuirtic a  me ror cash. P rhaos their arguments were
strength ned by  t rtlin ounecment which issued from
the War  ice  the e et tht the entire Army was behind
Gener:! Ar ki in ir  rence L ns. uxactly what these plans
re is une rtin,'
certai: that they will prove costly.
in view of the aramy' tirm tane It would soem that the
soon

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
20
soon have to abandon his hopes of sparing the coumtry
further indebtedness.
On October 23 the JAPAN ADVERTIBER announcd 
the problems of policy had been settled by the Conforemb
The validity of this statement appears questionable, but
at least a definition of national policy was made publio
As translated by the OSAKA MAINICHI it 1s;
1. " The Government aims at peace in its internationel
relations and is endeavoring to realize this policy by
means of diplomacy.
2. "Regarding national defence, the Government
expects to maintain sufficient armaments to forestall
menace from without. Simultaneously, the Government
is giving constant attention to the adjustment of nationel
defence within the national(financial?) strength."
This carries the implication that the Army and Navy
will have their way in the framing of the budget. Although
the military have gained their ends on the question of funds
the liberal elements too uchieved a measure of success in
these conferences and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has
gained his point, that in the development of friendly
foreign r lations he ust not be constantly embarrassed by
blustering, truculent st:tements on the part of the mili
tary. Furthermore, the ossibility of a Cabinet rupture
has been post poned no : me: cure of stability temporarily
assured for the S ito Government.
(b) Suiyukai- Inseito Coclition.
The obvious disagreument between the military ond
civi titn nirter: which cme to the fore during the
Five Ministers' onferences aroured speculation as to the
it enl chenge. It wan even rumored
ule rerig oue to dissotisfaction
vith

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
outodme of the parloys. this
promptly depiad, but stories paraisted and't
talk of a dietatorship headed by the Minister
The pcssibility of this, coupled with the sevem rit
cism to which the politioal parties have besm mtbiecte
during the recent traals of the men involved in the
May 15 incident, were undoubtedly the motives which r-
cently prompted the Minister of Education to suggest to
Mr. Suzuki, the President of the Seiyuka1 Party, that
the Seiyukai make overtures to the Minseito Party looming
towards a coalition. The purpose of such a coalition
would be to act as a bulwark of protection for parliamentary
government against military encroachment. It is not an-
ticipated that this proposal will meet with any immediate
success, for in spite of the fact that the Minseito mem-
bers realize they may eventually be driven to such a step
for their own self preservation, they are still hesitant,
fearing that such an alliance would lessen their strength
to the advantage of the Seiyukai Party.
(c) Trials of the Civilian. Military, and Naval
Assassins.
While the trials of the civilians involved in the
May 15 incident continue to drag on day by day, the public
in general and the ress in particular seem to have lost
much of the high srung interest which characterized their
attitude throughout the summer and early autumn. Almost
every day some new cause is offered by the accused for
their actions; the olight of the farmer, hunger in the
schools, (which in thomselves are alllwong), burden of
tuxes,  leulty social system, und even the influence of
the united it tes n Japen huve :Il been put forward to
justify

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
Justiry the conspirators' murder of the Premier and
the plans, which they have revealed were made, for
wholeeale assassinations.
On September 1l, the court martial procurators
caused a public furore by demanding death for thréo.
life imprisonment for three, six years' imprisonment
for three, and three years' imprisonment for one. or the
young naval officers accused of leading the fatal May 1s
reactionary outbreak. Since that date the judges making
the decision have remained in seclusion. It is now
announced that their verdict, which is said to cover
twenty large sheets, will be announced on November 10.
The Navy Department has been most apprehensive as to the
effect this will produce, since a large number of the
junior nival officers ure b lieved to be in sympathy with
the plotters.
Investigations still continue of the plot of the
so-celled" God-Sent Tr oos", a reuctionary conspiracy
which was frustrated last July by the police. Raids are
being carri d out in :  tempt to gather evidence in
wh t now a ears might h: ve oroved to have been a reign
of terror on a seale Ir vaster th a was even contemplated
by the ny 1! conspirators. An attorney, Tatsuo Anno, who
Wa: recently cotured in liarbin, whence he had fled from
Tokyo, no its to n vin b un the leader in the lot which
umong its oth'r rauirications neluded a plan to storm
the Tokye courtr om where tue members of the Blood Brother-
hood

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
mood were being tried for the purpose of settins the
conspirators free. However, no direct connectien has
so rae been fotnd between the Blood Brotherhood and the
God-Bent Troops though they were both inspired by a co
desire to save the country from ruination.
(a) Communism.
The proprietors of sixteen printing establishments
in Tokyo were arrested towards the end of October on the
charge of having printed "The Red Flag", an organ of the
Communist Party, and other radical literature. It is
claimed by the police that these shops have been printing
this literature since the utumn of 1932. They will be
indicted on the charge of violating the Peace Preservation
Law.
(e) Controversy over the London Naval Treaty.
Agitation against the London Naval Treaty which has
been going on sporadically since it was signed, reached its
pitch last summer during the trials of the conspirators
involved in the w y 15 incident.* The matter was again
brought to the fore when Baron Wak tsuki, President of
the minseito, nd head of the Jananese delegation that
negotiated the pact, in  oublic speech at Nugoya on
October 10,  funded te puct ugainst its critics und
conde med the "irresponsible ut eronces" made by "those
who he ve only  superfieint kuon leuge o the matter.
This defene as met by a torm of eritieism from the
Navy, the Soiyu ad Porty, nd many p triotic organtsations.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
 group or admirals met shortly after the Baromts
and agcording to the JAPAw TIMEs of October 13, xbrss
suprame surprise" at his recklessness and lack of under
atanding. Numerous references were made neverthelems
by editorial writers to Baron Wakatsuki's courage in
eoming out boldly in defense of the unpopular Treaty, and
the NICHI NICHI even went so far as to show that it
was illogical to denounce the Treaty because so much had
to be spent on the Navy, since, were it not for this
Treaty, the tax payer's burden would have been even greater
The Naval authorities on October 16 stated that
they did not wish to engage in further discussion of the
Treaty, since existing conditions both in Japan and abroad
made it imperative that the second replenishment program
be commenced. This statement at least had the desired
effect of ending the public controversy.
(f) The Army.
The Special Grand ilitary Maneuvers were hela
from October z4-27 in the vicinity of the City of Fukui,
Fukui-ken, in the presonce of the Emperor and all the
foreign military atlnchés assigued to this post.
Just before the end of the manouvers the Minister
of war at a nespapur interview orosos u that un inter-
nationul confererce be e: lleu by J n t, be hele in Tokyo
orior to the  val Confer ve in
5
ike lost of
Generel Ar ki's oronoumeem nte the pro oal was given
uch pub lcity  most
1 the loeal press w s ot the
o inion t t the ln w s t uly im rtiel, but that
its :u vstion
tthe

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
25-
General's attempt to launch a plan of the magiitude
proposod was, in the words of the NICHI NICHI, at
least too hasty", for it appears that the countries
he suggested be invited to tena included the United
States, Soviet Russia, China, Great Britain, India,
France, Holland, and "Manchukuo". It is not at all
improbable that the General made his suggestion
fully appreciating its inevitable rejection, for the solo
purpose of demonstrating that it is not diplomacy but her
own armedstrength on which Japan will be forced to rely
in contending with the crisis which he has predicted.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
-26-
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) The Budget.
On October 27, one day after the Accountant!s
Bureau of the Finance Department had completed its
study of the budget for the next fiscal year the
Premier, Viscount Saito, was quoted by the Osaka MaI-
NICHI as saying that "No matter how serious the demand
may be for appropriations the Government can not
recklessly provide funds." He confirmed the Bureau's
approval of a total of Yen 2,050,000,000 as "about
right". The "serious demand"referred to by the Premier
is believed to refer to the demands of the Army, for.
of the Yen 180,000,000 to Yen 200,000,000 for which
General Araki is clamoring,the Accountant's Bureau is
said to have included in its approval only seventy
or eighty nillion yen. The aemano of the Navy Depart-
ment has, it is believed, been equally reduced including
the outlay for the second replenishment program. Whether
the Finance authorities will be uble to withstand the
opposition of the Army  nd Navy to the buaget, as the
Finance uinistry ulu Like to see it passed, is doubt-
t r seut yer th totallount
C11L.
orbnos mtst L re eh Yen ,,,Ooo. Both
the remier
me the tinist r or Fin nee hove agreed that
1 xes For oxt voor hti not ou inere ved su th only
1: torou h the isen nee of
suuree
in roe bte tit by th ' se

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
27
br 1984 the national indebtedness will have risen
to 1en 10,000,000,000. While he is anxioum tomdla
any unnecessary expenditure the Minister of Finanas
says he is quite optimistic as to the countryts ability
to absorb another milllon yen's worth of bonds during
the next year. However, if the Minister of War has
his way the bond buyers will have to do better than that.
The Cabinet Council has recently comnenced a study of
the entire question with a view towards whittling dom
the amounts sought by the various departments.  Due to
the wide margin between the amounts requested by the
different ministers and the amounts to which, in the opinion
of the Finance Department, they are justified, it is anti-
cipated that some time will be required before a final com-
promise is reached.
(b) Rice Control.
On Uctober 25 the rice and grain control committee
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry fixed a pro-
price
visional minimum of Yen 2:.70 per koku (about five
bushels) and a maximum provisional price of Yen 30.50
in its scheme to stabiliz. the price of this commodity.
Obviously if the murket price of rice goes below
the former amount the Government will buy; if above the
latter, it will sel.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
-.28-
RAL GONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITTOU
(a) Janan' fóreim trade.
Japan's foreign trade for October showedi
ight decline from September, but an increase of
26-1/2% over the corresponding month last year. The
exports and imports throughout the month of October
Wore as follows:
Exports
Imports
(in 1,000 yen)
October 1932
147,458
97,723
Uctober 1933
170,986
139,070
January through
October 1932
1,085,423
1,151,580
January through
October 1933
1,525,052
1,562,993.
While the export of raw silk fell off by over eleven
million yen, gains were registered by exports of cotton
tissues, rayon textiles, machinery, canned and bottled
provisions. In spite of the boycott against the purchase
of the Inaian prouuce, imports of raw cotton showed a gain,
as did iron, sugar nd rubber. It is estimated that
Japan's total foreign trade for the year will reach
Yen 3,600,000,000, th inerense in tr de to South American
countries of loo nor cent for th first nine aonths of
this year over the s: me perisu in ns heing largely
responsible cor this. It is, mor over, und rstoou that the
increaseo trade w1th "M nehuluo"
or thn de up for
the

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
's rost markets in China. In fact with the
ôtion of Chime all countries in the world are said
to have purchased more Japanese goods during the firat.
nine months of the current year than last.
(b) Foreign Exchange.
The announcement of the United States polioy
of purchasing gold in foreign markets caused a distinct
strengthening of the Yen in terms of the dollar towards
the end of the month, and at the close of business on
ctober 31 the Yen was quoted at: selling, 28-5/8; buyin8
Press reports predict a further rise in the rate.  On
the other hand it is rumored that the Government intends
in the coming Diet to introduce a bill for devaluation, or
at least "a radical alteration in its specie policy".
(c) Miscellaneous financial notes.
The increased industrial activity has r sulted
in a very profitable period for the coal companies in Japan.
This is indicated by the recent decision of the Mitsubishi
Mining Company to pay a 10% dividend, in increase of 2%
over the last p riod. This was prompted by an increase
in profit of 30. Other mining companies  re s id to be
enjoying ecu:1, if not better, carnings.
Th: coroosite  verage index of r tail prices of
l00 commooities in Tokyo tor etober showed an inerease
of 0.7 over leotember.
Lankdeoosits in : b nks in Jopun Proner, Korea,
and  gh Lien t the u gin in of vetober showed pn inerease
of

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
30
than fifty-five million yen over the previous
th and mbre than a billion yen over the pravious ye
This perhaps explains the complaint of the O8Aki MaI-
NichI of Qctober 20, of the tightness prevailing in
the'money market, which it believes is but a temporary
condition.
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
N11.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTIVSTIES OF PORETON COMMERCIAL INZKREBTS
et
importation or Soviet gasoline still
timues to disturb the local market*. Recently
Japanese oil syndicate explained to the importer
of this gasoline, Mr. Metsukata, the difficultiem
with which the Japan Oil Co., the Ogura Oil Co.,
and the Mitsubishi Oil Co. were meeting, due to this
competition. No cooperation was forthcoming from
Mr. Matsukata. The syndicate had hoped to enlist
the assistance of the Ministry of Comnerce and In-
dustry, but this Department is of the opinion that now.
is not the proper time to mediate.
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
Ni1.
t b r :6,1033.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
32
MIBCELLANBOUS:
() Population
Statistics made public during Qctober by the
Government show an increase in births and a decrease in
deaths for 19z2, bringing the natural increase of popy-
lation for the year up to the record figure of 1,007,0.
In commenting on this fact the Osaka ASAHI states thatit
1s the natural process of evolution in the biological
world for a high procreativeness and high mortality to b
followed by a lower procreativeness and lower mortality,
therefore the considerable decline in death rate indi-
cates that the birth rate has already reached its
pinnacle ana will henceforth gradually decrease.
(b) Diplomatic History of Janan.
Baron Kijuro Shidehara, former Foreign Minister,
has recently annou. ceu his intention of compiling a com-
plete diplomatic history of Japan, the first of its kind.
It is expected that rive years will be required to complete
the task in which he will be a: isted by Count Uchida and
other veteran di lomatists.
(c) Portuguese Spy.
Portug: I is the latust eontry to have one of its
nt tionals i elureo in the ' on ist of foreigners who
9532
rave b on ncoused by the Jop uere or ppying. The NIPPON
of oet ber t carri  tory th t one J.IH. ippose was
t: ken
  tody by the volie on Y tober 2, for tuking
trti.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.86)
claimed that some l00
of the Ialand Sea, Korea, and "manchukáo
1n his lnggage.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
Monthly political report for
Sixth quarterly exeminetion of 
U. S. Naval Base at Magdalena Bay.
Japanese statement concerning the Japenese
Mandated Ialands.
545
Attendance by sehool children at certain
held at Shinto Shrines.
546
Memorandum on conditions in the Bar Mmst.
567
6, Returning cipher tables to the Department.
548
9, Mural paintings for the mbassy.
549
 1l, Claim of Captain Barstow.
550
" 13, Storage of mural paintings for the Eabasay.
551
" 18, Leave of absence of Mr. Washington.
552
" 18, Rental allowance for Mr. Washington.
553
* 19, Inventory of reference books.
554
* 19,
Newspaper report of Ambassador's conversation
with Foreign Minister Hirota.
555
" 19, Rental allowance for Mr. Lyon.
556
20, Diplomatic visa report.
557
20, Message delivered on behalf of the Ambassador.
558
20,
Germany's withdrawal from the League of Nations.
559
20, Controversy over the London Naval Treaty.
560
20,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
21, Convention of St. Germain en Laye.
561
562
26,
Japan's oil problems.
563
27，
Diplomatic visa report.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.83)
Iine for the U.
Report on Reactisnary Trtale
Five Ministers' Conferemse
81, Beturning oipher tables to the Dep

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
10
Persenal Ip
noon.
Convention of st.
7,10m.
Confidential telogr
9, 4 p.m.
Mural paintings for
12, 10 a.m.
Ameri cen-Japanene 
11, il a.m.
Arbitration treaty,
156
11, noon.
Disagreement in Japans
157
11, 7 p.m.
Soviet-Japanese relations
158
13, noon.
Ambassador's plans to visit Peipim
abandoned.
159
* 13, 3 p.m.
Telegram from the Commereial Atmaks
for Commerce.
160
 13, 5 p.m.
Soviet-Japanese relations.
161
* 19, 3 p.m.
Japanese good-will mission to U.8.
162
21, noon.
Discrimination against Socony-Vacuum
Corporation by Manchukuo customs authoritios
163
" 23, noon.
American-Soviet conversations.
164
" 25, 2 p.m.
Jepanese Cabinet situation.
165
n 23, 4 p.m.
Nielsen case.
166
" 24, 7 p.m.
American-Soviet conversations.
167
" 25, 11 p.m.
Nielsen case.
168
n 27, 2 p.m.
Press ban issued on negotiations between
Manchukuo and Administration of North China.
169
" 27. 3 p.m.
Receipt of code tables.
170
27, 5 p.m.
American-Japanese relations.
Proposal of Minister of War for conference
171
31, 8 p.m.
of Powers interested in the Pacific prior
to the Naval Arms Conference in 1935.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 5, 1934.
ROM:
J20:
Tokyo's monthly report for November,
transmitted with its despatch No. 607 of
December 11, 1933, contains very little
of interest which has not already been
covered by separate despatches.
The important subjects set forth in
the despatch are:
1. Japanese reaction to American
recognition of Soviet Russia;
2. Transfer of the Americen fleet
from the Pacific to tne Atlantic;
3. Relations witn China;
4. Relatione with "Mancnukuo";
5. Relations witn Soviet Russia;
6. Buaget of tre Japanese Government.
With regard to the firet of these
s ubjecte (pages 1 and 2) the despatch
B tates that the Japanese reaction to Amer-
ican recognition of Soviet Russia was, on
t he whole, reasonable and so far has not
l ed to a resumption of anti-Alerican
propaganda. Some papers seen to feel,
however, that the United States and Soviet
Russte

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Russia have in mind the possibility of
forming particularly close relations witn
each other with regard to sffeirs in the
Far East. The Soviet waiver of cleims
against the United States on account of
the Siberian Expedition if also said to
be the subject of so"e speculution, and
some Jarenese believe that the American
Expeditionary Force was sent to Siberia
not to fight the Russiane, but to safe-
guard Ruseian territorial inte rity
against Japanese. Reference is also made
to the favorable impreseion created in of-
ficial Jananese circles by the action of
the Department in furnishing the Janenese
Ambassador with coniee of the correspond-
ence retween the President and the Soviet
Foreign Winister with the comment that
"the recognition of Soviet Russia had
nothing whatever to do with the Far East".
So far as the order of the President
temporerily transferrin the fleet from
t he Pacific to the Atlantic is concerned,
t ne Japanese press is reported to have
received the news with genuine acclaim.
Although tre Ja anese Navy Department did
not appear pleased, tne press "welco..ed the
move ue a frienaly rapprochement between
Japan anu the United States".
Attention is drawn to the re ort
(page

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
(page 6) that the Soviet authorities were
considering the possibility of turning
the management of the Chinese Eastern
Railway over to the Anerican Government.
In connection with a dis cussion of
Japan's relations with China, there ie
reference to the Fukien revoit. In adui-
tion to the fact that a radical government
set up at Foochow would be aisturting to
the Ja anese in view of the proximity of
Formosa to Fukien, the Juranese ure cis-
turted by the tnought that any aimirution
in tne nrestige and authority of tre
"anking Government makes ircreasingly
difficult negotiations with that covern-
ment lcoking toward tne restoration of
friendly relations between Chine and Janan,
durcaecs
and the possibility of holding direct
negotietions with regarc tc regularizing
the state of affairs now existing in
Manchuria. It will also be noted that a
Japanese press report accuses the American
Navy of fomenting the Fukien revolt.
The negotiations over the sale by
Russia of ita interests in the Cuinese
Eastern Railway nave apparently been
completely aiscontinueu.
Press censorsnip nas been maintainea
on

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-4
on the publication of news releting to
current negotiations hetween the Govern-
ment of "Lanchukuo" and tne Administra-
tion of Nortn China.
Two areas near Shanhaikwan were
forually annexed to "Manchukuo" after
Noveuber 4 and are reinf governed as
parts of "Wanchukuo".
It is also renorted on page 10 that
the "Manchukuo" authorities intend to
deport to Japan all undesirable Japanese.
The section on relatione with Soviet
Russia is lergely a condensation of a ces-
patch which has only recently been circu-
lated tnrough the Division. The most in-
teresting feature is that "now it is the
Soviet wnicn is the source of irritation
while Japan appears to tenporize".
In connect ion witn tne report that
the araft buaget for the fiscal year 1934-
1935 has been areea upon by the Cabinet,
your attention is drawn to a very well
prepared despatch on the sane subject
wnich hes just been put into circulation
through the Division.
The section on Japan': foreign trade
(page 23) has Bome interest ing features.
The

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-5-
The statement was made that even though
the exports and imports for tne month of
November, 1933, were greater tnan the
figures for the corresponding month of
last year, "tne export trend for princi-
pal commodities since July has been down-
ward". A recent report circulated by
Commerce stated tnat there has recently
been a substantial decrease in the pro-
auction of cotton textiles, while stocks
of both cotton textiles and raw cotton in
the warehouses have increased. These
rather significant facts would epuear to
indicate that the peak of Japan's increas-
ing foreign trade has already been passed.
ZHD:H2D

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.92)
VSGAL ADVISER
KE
UNITED STATES OF ANERIC
DEYSRIMENT OF STATE
No. 607.
onthly Report on Conditions in Japan
during the onth of November, 1933.
6. 1-2,6,7-8,
11-13,17-18,
894.00 P.R.
F
AFFURE
E2-3,8-9,
JAN 3 1934
S
3-14.18-19
894.00
EASTERN EUUPEAN AFF
RAn
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEF
PM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 2 5 193
P
DIVISIUN OF
WESTERN EUROPEAN ARFAIBS
For
R
The Honora
The Secret ry of State,
7
COPY SENT TO
2
ashington.
O. N. ITAND M. I. D.
Sir:
With referencc t the epartment's inst uction
1/.
o. 9f of July
, l, I transit neromith the
muuscy's monthly reoort on con itions in Japan for the
month of v mber, 1 5.
FILED
cspectful y yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Report Mo. 86.
Co y to Lcatlon, Pei ing
1!
" Cons late General, Chanchai
" Cons: ate General utden
1!
" Consulate General Marbin
Ofnco of Frememw Advieer
11
" Cons ate, Dairen
JAN 12 1934
In triplic te to the De artment.
RSTATE
800.Ja an
C2L:g

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
LURING THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER. 1933.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
POLITICAL BELATIONS WITH THE UNITOD
(a) United States Recognition of Soviet Rusaia.
(b) Transfer of the United States Fleet frem
the Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean
(c) Meetings between the American Ambassador and
the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
(a) Quezon's visit.
(e) Rockefeller Gift Accepted here.
5,6
(f) Chinese Eastern Railway
6
II.
RELATLONS WIT OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China.
78
(b) The British Empire
8,9
(c) "Manchukuo"
9,10,11
(d) Soviet Russia.
11,12,13
(e) France.
13,
(f) Germany
13,14
(g) Italy.
14
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) Political Unrest.
15
(b) May 15 Incident Trials
15,16,17
(c) God-Sent Troops.
.17
(a) Communism.
17,18
(e) The Navy.
18,19
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
NIL
V.
GOVERALNT FINANCE:
(a) The Budget.
20,21
(b) Rice Control.
21
(c) Price of Gold
21,22
VI.
GEYT AE EC MO IC AL FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Japan's Foreigr Trade.
25,24
24
5
VII.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
Index and Summary continu
vII
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTEITITS
VIII
ACITVITIES OF FOREIGN COM ERCIAL INTERIBY
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
NIL
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
(a) Population.
26
(b) Death of Princess Asaka.
26
(c) Charity....
26,27
(a) Night Air Mail Service.
27

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
Announcomenbof the
ten found Japan calm but apprahemstv
comments have for the most part been non-committs
men for the Foreign Orrice have emphasized thef
the action was quite natural and was fully under
ppreciated in Japan. Furthermore great stress
on the fact that the American motive was purely oo
and constituted no cause for alarm or apprehension
cause changes in the Far Eastern situation. Fantastlorru
mors, however, marked this self assurance as an ttempt
conceal feelings of uncertainty and suspicion. One
rumor indicated that the Far Eastern Squadron of the it
States Navy would proceed shortly to Vladivostok to celepr
the recognition and protect American trade while another
went so far as to state that the Sov1ets had entrusted the
development of North Saghalien to the United States. On the
whole, however, the Japanese re ction was reasonable anc has
so far not led to a resumption of anti-American propaganda.
The OSAKA AINICHI of November 19, states that America, like
so many other nations, has been misled by the potentialitie
of the Soviet market, while other journals point out that
America could not have taken a step more helpful to Russia
in her present strug le with Jepan, nor indicated more clear-
ly her d sapprovol of Japan's Asian policy. The JIJI remarks
upon the f et that the United States acquired more rights and
inte ests fro the Coviet than any other Power that has so far
rec gnized her, and therefore concluded that American-Soviet
friendship
*Se
espatc: No. 572 of Nov. 2, 1937 and No. 600 of Dec. 1,1933

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
reated between the Soviet
mIghI praux and other papera aotsed unos
fforded by the faot that the visdt to
Winister to China coincided approximately
of redognition to proclaim that the United States had
proached the Chinese Government with plans for for
Russo-Chinese-American bloc versus Japan.
One phase: of the recognition negotiations whioh dom
not appear entirely clear to the Japanese, but to mhich wer
tain importance is attached, is the Soviet waiver of els
against America on account of the Siberian expedition. Mr
Litvinov's statement that his government had relinquished
these claims in view of the fact that "certain steps had
been taken by the American troops for which the Soviet
should feel grateful" has led many Japanese to conclude
that by this is meant that the American expeaition was
not to fight the Bolsheviki, but to safeguard Russian terri-
torial integrity against Japan. However, if this interpre-
tation presents cause for annoyance a most favorable impres-
was created in official circles here by the action of
the American Secretary of State in presenting to Ambassador
Debuch1 copies of the correspondence between the President
and Mr. Litvinov "with the comment that the recognition of
Soviet Russia had nothing whatever to do with the Far East.*
Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean.
If the Japanese found it necessary to rely largely on
their imaginations while commenting favorably on the recogni-
tion of Russia by the United States, the acclaim with which
the
*See Telegram No. 178, Nov. 20, 1933.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
for the Naval authoritiee to
nöumced that no significance should be
fer ann that "the stormy waves of the Pacirid
not be calmed by the fleet's departure the sen
pretation of the move was that of the ASAHI, ThE JA
THE JIJI and the YOMIURI all of whioh Journala herai
act as a most friendly gesture. The OSAKA MAIWICHI
through the official announoement that the move was
the periodical operations program and proclaimed that th
American Ambassador here played a prominent role iner
the transfer. Other jounnals congratulated the Duitod
States Government on its decision, and few agreed with the
HOKKAI TIMES that since the United States as a nation 1s
fickle the present apparently friendly attitude toward Japan
might easily change at any time. On the other hand most of
the local press welcomed the move as a friendly rapproche-
ment between Japan and the United States.
the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The local press, particularly the vernacular, has
given considerable attention to two meetings between the
94
American Ambassador and Mr. Hirota, the Minister for Foreigh
711.
Aff: irs.** The fact ti:t these two inners, which were
held rimarily in order to afford the Minister for Foreign
Affuirs an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the
local representatives of the American press, were attended
by not on y the Counselor of the American Embassy, but also
sev ral members of the Japanese Foreign Office, invested
them
*tec Telegra No. 17:, ov. 7,1925
** See Despatch No. 595, Nov. 9, 1933.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
Hirota since assuming ofrice or
retazlons maturally iamests
lead toward that end with newsvalue; howeyer
Iy seems to justify the YOMIURI in going so far
clude in its ennumeration of topics discussed at the
mestings such ideas as, the Prevention of Naval
Ion Race, the Fundamental Principles of No War Polier be
tween Japan and the United States, the Neutrality of
Philippines, the question of the Open Door and equal op
portunity in "Manchukuo" and China. But this jourtnal we
not alone in printing what its reporters believed to hav
been discussed at these meetings rather than announcing
the actual facts, which were that while an opportunity was
afforded for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to get together
in an informal manner with the American correspondents, con-
versation was of a purely general nature ard no specific
views were develo ed. The JIJI gave to its account of the
meetings a certain aroma of mystery by referring to the se-
con inner as "a secret meeting".
Following the last of these two meetings Mr. Hirota
made public an idea which has met with a popular reception
by the press, namely not only his willingness but his desire
to enter into negotiations with Great Britain and the United
States prior to the naval conference scheduled to be held in
1935.
(d) Quezon's Visit.
manuel Quezon, President of the Philippines Senate, de-
livered an adcress before t e Pan Pacific Club of Tokyo on
the fifteenth of iovober when he stop ed off  ere for one
811b.01
day

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
ihzion.Seiming theoppor
the independnece as offered by
an "independence with stsings attached
mo reminded the Japanese, rather paradoxically tt i
that "Fortunately, in our day and generation,
longer governments, however powerful, that will bolal
sert their right to conquer simply because they have
power and will". While thus suggesting a hands-off pol
in case of future independence Mr. Quezon extended an v
tation on behalf cf the Pan Pacific Club of Manila to hol
future conferences of that organization in Manila, muich
it was their sincere wish might some day become a sort of
Geneva of the Orient. Prior to his departure Mr. Quezon
announced his intention of suggesting to President Roose-
velt that he personally summon and attend the first of such
conferences next summer in Hawaii, or, if possible, Manila.
(e) Rockefeller Gift Accepted Here.
The Cabinet announced on November 22 its acceptance
of a donation of Yen 4,0 0,000,000 from the Rockefeller
Foundation for the establishment of a public hygienic
institute. While expressions of appreciation of the genero-
sity of this gift appeared conspicuous by their absence, the
Director of the Central Sanitary Bureau of the Home Ministry
ventured the opinion that "this cooperative movement supported
by the Government and the Foundation for a thoroughly system-
atic an effective fight against disease should prove of im-
mense significance and far-reaching imoortance, not only in
Japan but in al? the contacts of the Japanese people through-
out

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
ar
Chinase Eastoch
The Changchun corresponéent of thd Tokyb
ported toward the and of the momth that the
ties more seriously considering the possibility of
the management of the Chinese Eastern Railway ovar
American Government. Should they succeed in inducing
American authorities to agree the Soviets would be
to call off the now deadlocked negotiations for the
of the road to "Manchukuo". It 1s believed too by the
that American management of the railroad would be an in
ducive for the investment of American capital in Soviet
territory.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
RELATTONBWITH
"Ks a remult of Amevidwls reéognition
the Moscow Governmest has stretched
hands to China, especially South China, Sor th
of Bolshevising the whole of China on one hand,
the other to place restrictions upon a further
of Japan's influence on the Asiatic continent.
YOMIURI explains the recent revolt in Fukion.
above explanation tends toward exaggeration it does con-
tain, it is believed, certain elements of truth, namelyr
E
that the new Government is believed to be communistic. In
view of the proximity of Fukien to the Island of Formosa
it is this element which is so disturbing to the Japanese
and leads them to believe that trouble must eventually be
expected from that quarter. Another disquieting feature
is the fact that the rew revolt adds one more disturbing
element with which the Nanking Government must cope and
further reduces the restige of that organization at a time
when it seemed as if some progress toward Sino-Japanese
friendship was being made. Obviously this renders futile
direct negotintions over "Manchukuo" with the Nanking Govern-
ment as that politica? body would prove impotent to carry
out ny greoments which it might enter into with the best
of intontions. Th ugh it is not mown yet what attitude
the nev Government will assume toward Japan it is expected
that it ill be unfriendly, t erefore tvo Japanese warships
having been despatched t the district, a policy of watch-
ful wait ng as been assumed by the Tokyo Government.
RENGO
* See Telerram No. 180, Nov.  and Despatch No. 597,
Deßember 1, 1917.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
e.Amerioan Havy but
Such statementa are given libti
nese authorities as they are a daily
Tery incident both France and Great Britein
aocused of cooperating with the rebels.
The new Government's announced polioy or abre
of all unequal treaties caused considerable spequt
on the part of the local journals as to wheth or
the status quo of Fukien, guaranteed by the Chinese to
the Japanese in 1898, would be maintained. Offioi
circles, however, do not appear to consider this phas
of the question as disturbing as the inclusion in the
Government of many persons whose feelings are known to 
EE
anti-Japanese, the most conspicuous amongst whom is the
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Eugene Chen, whose communi
tic leanings are renowned.
An announcement from Peiping stating that a new state
had been born in Inner Mongolia, with its capitel at Tier
chih, was taken by the Japanese as an additional indica-
tion that the disintegration of China is well on its way.
The officers of the ner Government are for the most part
Mongolian orinces, who claim they have been forced to take
actLon bec use of t failure I t Chinese Government to
regari the menan's of the minorities. It is understood
that no officials wil rcceive salaries but their families
WE
are to he su portoa on sheep provi led by the Government.
(b) The uritish Empire.
While
794.4

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
been meached at New Delht prid
with it the lapsing of the agrmement. Still no
to the troubles between Japen and India appekra to
ight. The JAPAN TIMES accuses the Indian delegat
adhering to their "stubborn unconciliating ttitod
though at the same time the Japanese pursue their polipy
boycotting Indian raw ootton. The JIJI brands the metho
of the Japanese delegates of continuing to offer "last.
terms", which are repeatedly rejected by the Indiana 
"Suicidal Diplomacy" of the most humiliating sort and 'ad-
vocates an imnediate vithdrawal from the parley. While the
parley has not been suspended, as were the negotiations for
WE
the sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway, it appears to
ave reached at th oresent time an impasse from which only
a supreme effort in cooperation on the part of the delegates
of both sides could rescue it. This affords the Japanese
an on ortunity to accuse the Indians of "insincerity" in
their negotiations, a term vith which the Japanese are
ever ready to ub these with whom they have unsuccessful
dealings.
(c) " anchukuo"
Phe complete iscontinuence of ll egotiations for
the mre ase by " anchukno" fron the loviet of the Chinese
Fastern Railway hos greatly curtailec ti amount of atten-
tion cevoter to the new forme state by th local journalists.
Furthermore a rear ban has neen issued forbidding comment
on th  rts of the establishment of a nonarchy in "Man-
A

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.92)
A previous press ban prohibited comment on ourrent mego
tlations between the Government of "Manchukuo" and th
ministration of North China. These facts coupled with
presence in Tokyo for the last few weeks, of Choa Hsin Poy
the Chief of the Legislative Yuan of "Manchukuo for 
reported urpose of rafting a constitution for Manchukuo
modeled on that of Japan would appear to suggest that the
rumor was rot completely vithout foundation.
It as een a nouncec tht on November 4 the first and
second cistricts of Linyuhsien (Shanhaikwan) were formally
annexed to "Manchuk o". These districts which contain a
population of 75,00 have since the founding of the new
state been admi istered by s ecial office crcated by the
"Manchukuo" Government.
. Honceforth they will be governed
as "sanchulkuo" ro er.
Tvo projects vhic lark a further step in the progress
of "anc uouo" were rc rteo in November. on the seoond of
the month i vo  mounced that ft r long negotiations the
British-Anerican Tobacco Trust
r ccived eraission from
the overnart t
buila larr  etory t Liaoyang and to-
ward the ene of t unth the " arch ukuo" Department of Com-
munic tions  cilr n or ce tht next poring construe-
tion wil
on a erful r io station at Psin-
king.
ertoken py th unchuria Te-
lephone
oeny,
c1l telephone
", un er the sunervision of
an
Japanese uth'ti  an ex erts.
ane  "thorittes he nr ounced their in-
al un esira. c Jananese in
urchuoo"

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
"Mmehukuo". A black list of smch perséns basb
by the police in cooperation with the Japaneje
Hsinking. This was compiled with a view towards i
in it all who were belleved to be impeding the healtr
velopment of the country. Details as to how the repatriat
is to be effected have not yet been announced.
Although the question has not yet been taken up in the
Cabinet Council the Kwantung Army has proposed the reorgmi
zation of the South Manchuria Railway. This plan, whith
would put the railway under the control of the army, calls
for the dissolution of the present South Manchuria Railway
Company ani its reorganization as a holding company for the
many enterprises now operated by the company and a retrocess-
ion of the railway zone to "Manchukuo".* The railway proper
would be conducted as a joint Japanese -"Manchukuo" enter-
prise ani the separated interests, such as coal and iron mines,
would be directed by an economic bureau which in turn would
be controlled by the army. The important phrase of the pro-
posal is the supervision of this bureau, which would be under
the Japanese Envoy Plenipotentiary to "Manchukuo" who is
likewise commander of th: Kwantung Army.
(a)
Soviet Russia
November marked the first month in which the Soviet-
Japanese friction appears t) have been entirely due to the
Soviet intransigeance. Reports from Soviet sources alleged
761.94
that on November 3 nine Japanese military planes had crossed
the frontier near Vladivostok and cruised over Soviet terri-
tory. Loter this flight was officially orotested by the
Soviet
* Se Despatch No. 584, Novemter 16, 193.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.94)
Seviet Ambassador here and it wasrofricially
the Japanese Foreign Orfice.* (At the time of
the Baviet Ambassador stated that sir, inatdack
had crossed the border. This discrepancy was sei
On November 12 a United Press despatch from Moscow
nounced that six of the ahove ment oned planes had en
shot own by tho Soviets and two Japanese naval vessela ha
been blown up off the Kamchatka coast. There appears to b
no houbt now about the falsity of this report but how it
passed the suposedly rigid censorship of the Soviet remaih
EF
a mystery. In issuing a denial, however, the Soviet authopi
ties are su pose to have warned the Japanese that in the
future ny Japanese planes which might violate their front-
ier  ill be liable to just such treatment. Another cause
of annoyance toth Japanese was a speech delivered by Mr.
Molotov, Prusident of ti Council of Peoole's Com issars, on
the Red Anniversary ay, Hovember 7, in the course of which
it is reported that he not only envisaged war with Japan,
for wiich he declared lussia is rcpared, but also pointed
out thet  hen sue a war shal occur the task for the Red
Aray  il be simple, "a complete dostruction of the enemy".
T. ese i e ent. illustat the exc nue of roles between
Sovlot ussio a d Japan
ch ar marked tit recent relations
between the ti e untries, now it is the Soviet which is the
s mrce of irritation while Ja an ao ear: to tem orize. This
s ex  e  t I ut tnt the Japanese Army has
eur's bucget and does
not
pec ote
No. 59 of
vember 18,
ove noer

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.92)
18
not desire t become involved tn war just now
it may, it is obvlous that the Soviet-Japaness
exists independent of propaganda activity on the
Japanese Army to secure this bucget appropriation,
formerly t e cuse. Some observers link the adoption
Soviet of the policy of the"big stick" and "big talk ith
the recognition of that nation by the United States, bu th
general opinion ap e rs to be that, igrorant of the fact
that "barking dogs never bite", the Soviet are truly appe-
hensive of trouble from Japan anu believe they can stave
it off with much barking. hatever the motive it would seem
as if t e latter end had been accomolished and if the Japanes
Minister for Foreign Affeirs succeeds inhaving his way,
friend: re'ations et re the tyo nat ons vill not only be
restored but maint ined. It wes reported curing the month
that . irote s givi  ue tn ught to the ossibility
the
of cr ating  n-fortir cd zo e on/Coviet-"manchukuo" front-
ier. Te  oo ASAlI rep rt: thut r. Hiroto has discussed
tst
iro  it  Covit Ambassador, but as
jct t
ffic!
oune ment bout t is pro-
reet.
tewnchssador
fifteunth the onth
t. t rt t.
ern
1. fi t radio exchange
cension ac resses
coa or t
ermany in Ber-
lin

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
etir1ng
visit to Japan, which oceurrtda
month, or Marquis Marponi and his wife
tributes on the part of this country to the gentus of the
inventor. In recognition of Marquis Marconi's-services t
science ano goou relationship between Japan and Italy
Emperor conferred upon him the First Order of Merit with
Grand Cordon of t Rising Sun. The impression ereatea b
the inventor on this, his first, vi it to Japan was most
favorable and the a miration wit wich he was greeted by
the Japa ose  si cere and spontaneous.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
INTERNTPOLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Poirtipal Uarast
On November 16 a reart onary groud of mtad
down the Ginza, Tokyors Broadway, stopping ali-traii
roclaiming "The Showa Restoration Must be Caxriod 
with the Saito C binet". Later in the month the Moirink
a self-styled patriotic organization composed lartels
business men, retired milit ry men, an iplomats, pa
resolution to ork for the overthrow of the Saito Cabiner
but the most im ressive anti-Cabinet demonstration oceurr
on November 25 in Shiba Park under the auspices of 72 pat
otic societies. At this mecting, which vas attended by some
h
5000 persons, inclucing 90 year old Mitsuki Tanaka, Minister
nascal
of the Imperial Hcusehold under the Emperor Meiji,  reao-
lution vas adooted de anding the: resignation of the Safto
Cabinet an th foration of : st ong C binet cavable of
dealing wit th critical crisis vit: whic the country is
f :ced.
issatisfaction wit: th resent Cabinet's prolonged
negotia ions over t udget for the next fiscal year is be-
lieved to h ve beon one of th rincipal cuuses for summon-
iun th's nceting.  ever, it is but anot er manifestation
of t  cr seo pu ic i troot in the "s irItual mobili-
zation"
c.. c:ra
 ruscribed for Japan. The
s-uerv co en's ssociat en.n'e co ises a membership
Ol OVCT
idea and is attempt-
1. thecadent t pf cics t roughout Japan, exert
an
 oo'itic: of t c untry, and
t mov f ous eri: is of 1936.
pre rat Triols
2n

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.91)
9came the
long awadted jung
havel orsieers involved in the asamminat
Thukai and other disorders of the May 1s Ihei
In spite of the fact that the Naval Procurator haa
cpital punishment for three of the involved. no
punfshment was meted out to these than fifteon yeaf
sonment for tro of the defendants and thirteen yearmo
the third. Sentences of ten years imprisonment were ip
on three defendants for wmom life servitude had been
ed. The four others, for whom terms of from six years t
year had beer ashed, vil not, under st ys of execution
have to go t rison t ali if their conduct is exemplary
during various periods of robation. Three of these wer
sentenced to two years a the other to one year. The sen
tences were received f vor bly by all wo have defended the
accused in court and, a t it is rs orted that at a meeting
held soon after t sentoncus ha reen ronounced, it was
unoninously ar  thet n a oeal chou'd be made. In this
t accused concurrce, an ix officers com cnced their im-
risoneent,
bil t otrr Four eving alreasy served
eighteer onths i rison  nt, while awaitinr and suring
triel,
abenetitti sts of execution,have been
ul l e o inlon of th country ap-
set at
berty
uo. ert of to young men,
pears
lon in proeleiming the
theL
is cuoteo from that
v ol ff. ir ne etu!.
jourre 1 of
very iapre srive that
€r
Incicert. For the
cr
Y
ur ty of motive
t ublic must hope
inds of  ung men."
These

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.88)
17
These penalties were so light in oamparl
death sentence which the civil court had preseribed
man who fired tho shot at Hamaguchi in 193o, whsh
cause of his death six months 1ater, that the detlon
the First Criminal Section of the Supreme Court on the
following day to the effect that leniency shoulo not be
granted in criminal c ses merely because the motive l
in genuine patriotism ap eared most opportunely timed.
In view of t s decision it is not surprising that the Pubil
Procurator e anded on  vember 0, sertences ranging from
life im rison ont t seven years of hard labor for the twenty
civilians lnvolved in t same incicent.
(c) God-Sent Troops
The round ur o" porsons involved i the so-called "God
Sent Troops" cons iracy of tast Jul: co tinucs alth ugh the
rumber ofr ne  tcter ulr ay reache 6. Included
e n t cse is  Leserv ve1 Con n er, Saburo Yamaguchi.
outi
the eserv ist sudien?: last August
L ut ex nation, Y ave was re r e as one of the
bet Lomi n il i t Je Havy. Antr neld is
oc t: recou money
 uze
irucy b tre possession
v ce ilrmn
rofit whethe
t ly woset t stoc: markct.
11C
to ol in oseka when
上心
e 160 of them
ast rebruary was
14
lifted
8

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.91)
18
the twentloth of the
hubixcpthat atring that-peniod ly6
arrested by the police charged with being reding
of the Zenkyo (Al1 Countrywide Council or Jan
and engaged in the attempt to overthrow the exlatin
ment of Japan.* The arrested persons,who were e
series of raids,have been accused of instituting
trikes and demonstrat ons and ultimately aiming t
establishmont of a roletarian dictatorship. The 
of November 30 gives the following statisties regardins
number of sympathizers of tnc Japan Communistic Party who
have been pleced un er arrest and dealt with by the Procu
rator's office of the Tokyo District Court up to October
20 of this year. The validity of these figures is not
vouched for, they are m ely submitted as a matter of in-
terest:
1es ore 15 t bee mber  Numb r of uersons ar- 1850
rested
3567
1999
3737
1920
6903
1971
9212
1065
4377
t etobe r po
tta ong tse arr sted and held
It
 orr t ree ju ges of dis-
guilt: in P liin
ir cler s.
tict corts
WE
nse t cn ut Laron Waka-
Lo 'on : val Treaty took
is Iif. Ubon s ariival
500.A15A
ry-ii:t f th onth t e aron
t
op weit rreight bosing
ch:i,

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
19
hhpion who armed with  dagger w e
gurds before he had a clhance to carry out th
th he later confessed was is purpose
that both Noguchi an his. accouplice, who was arrested
the. police later at the Daron's residence, are memba
the org ization to vh ch the slayer of Hamgguohi belong
Furthermore Nogachi has confessed that dissatisfaction:
the Lonion Nava1 Treuty was his motive an added that d
Takarabe, Naval Minister at the time of the London Treaty
was also marked by hiaself and accom lice for murder
This indignation against the unpopular treaty was 
revealed in th eriodic list of new assignments and promo-
tions i the Ja  ncse  uvy whicn were made public in the
Vice-Ad-
official Gr zette r t fifteenth of thie month.
NE
miral Nobunasa fuetsusu, vi orous opponent of the treaty
ever since its s gring, vas to
to e Comnender-in-Chief
of th Combined Flect a of
e rst Fleet, and many who
 heer retin tsitlons  in r ir ortance following
litevise advenced to im-
thuin criticis
portont postr.
other v
ving regain what
oxt co ference is the
aswa. to r port on
the tvy inister of a
his vetivit vs,
Fit eeting following the
com ittee.
t, ot r pare
settlo.ent

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
GOVERNUENT FINANCE
(a)The Budget
Thdugh the end of November saw no Bettledent
deadlock over the budget for 1934-35 which threatened
to cause the downfall of the Saito Cabinet, it now 
futile to enter upon a det aled diseussion of the rimin
argumentswhich were set forth at that time, since a comp
was effected and the budget was approved by the Cabinet
a special meeting on December 2. * The total budgat as 
X
ed showed ar 1ncrease of Yen 94,000,000 over the or1ginal
estimate of the Finance Minister and amounted to a total of
Yen 2,111,000,000. This is an increase of Yen 60 000,000
over the resent year an is termed the largest budget eve
compi ed in Japan. The compromise which enabled the passage
of th bu5get g vo to the Army Yen 448,000,000 and to the
Mavy Yen 487,000,000, thus easing a crisis, vhich according
to NI PON  L..Po hac grown to the extont of a submission of
a tentative resignction by the Finance Minister an threats
on the part of other  inisters to r: sign if their proposals
Wert rejected.
The budget appeared in the ress as follows:
REVUNUE.
.Y 1,248,029,681
Ordinr
Tcome.
rxtraor inory Income:
58,744,288
de eral
cei,ts.
785,335,826
Proceotr from Loans
19,427,688
Curplus Carried Forvard.
Y,111,537,483
Total.
EXPENPITURE.
Y 1,47,105,893
oreinar Outlay.
864,431,590
I xtra rd inory cutlay
Y,111,557,483
"otal
ORD NARY

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
ORDINARY OUTLAY
Imnerial Honsehold Deparsment
Foreign Osrice.........
Home Office
Finance Office
War Office.
Navy Office
Department of Justice.
Department of Education.
Department of Agriculture & Poresty:
Department of Communications..
Department of Commerce & Industry
Overseas Office
Total.
EXTRAORDINARY OUTLAY.
Foreign Office
Y
10,710
Home Office
119,816
Finance Office
War Office
880,874
Navy Office
288,543,18
Department of Justice
2,226.411
Deoartment of Education.
23,141,018
Department of Agriculture & Forestry.
57,975,772
8,210,388
Department of Commerce & Industry
17,008,141
Tepartment of Communications
25,431,500
Overseas Office.
Total.
Y
859,431,590
(b) Rice Control
On Nov mber 1 the Rice Control Act went into effect.
By this law ti Government is given the p wer to set arbi-
trarily the inimun an maximun  rices beyond which the
mar et price of rice ust not fuctuate. For the prosnt
tiere is seic to e no fenr of the Government's being forced
to buy up the surplus cro of tor farmer at the minimum
However, it is expected
since tn urice i rice is high.
that the r t t of the ew law wil co e in March when
the seasonal icclire in the price of rice is due.
(c) Price of cold
On November 4 the Governrent  nounced that it had
894.515
iner ese the prict t wh'ch it wou'd purchase newly mined
It hns heen stated
old fro 1en 8.8o to Yen 9.9: per momme.
th: t t
f thus risinp the price is t check the
nto "e cuo" here the Government
and to bring hoarded
of
2012

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
this oountry out or the femily ste
expeated, however, that thede twsp
ascomplished since the price is still condi
balow the world price for gold.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
Japa's foreign trade for the Month
an inorease of 7.2% over the previous month
the same month last year. The exports and imponts
the month were as follows:
Exports
(in 1,000 yem)
November 1932
119,244
151
November 1933
169,044
168.685
January through
November 1932
1,237,279
1,270,279
January through
November 1933
1,683,822
1,731,920
(The above figures were supplied by the Commerclal Attaoh)
While the export trend for principal commodities since
July has been downward, sundries have maintained their letel
feirly consistently. There was  particularly sharp drop
in the export of raw silk, (a decrease of 29 points if 1927
is taken as a r tio of 10o) while uncertainty as to the out-
come of the Sinla Conference was held responsible for a fur-
t er decline in the exports of cotton viece goods.
e De artment of Connerce an Indust ry's index showed
n increase of O.% in the average holesale price in October
ainst Hentember. This was ecual to an incrcase of 11.3%
over the save month last year. The retail commodity price
In ex fo Tokye on Nevember 1 showed ar iner ase of s.7 over
Octol er 15.
ume in 'n tr hich is sh wing enormous profits is the
woolen

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
woolen induatry. Mr. Umeura,
byo Muslin Gompany, one or the leadáng
plants in Japan, states that due to the inc
and expanding foreign market for this prodm
of some of the best companies for this yeur
as 66% of their paid up capitol. For the firt 
year he has estimated that the gross profits of Tite
porations, after de ucting substantial amounts for
ciation, will average more than 29.e% of their paid up
tal.
(b) Foreign Exchange
The yen while it maintained a more or less consiste
value against sterling, continued to fluctuate considerably
against the American dollar. On the twenty-second it roach-
ed 1-1/4 but slumped back again to 30 on the t enty-fifth
It closed strong on th thirtieth being quoted at Buying
31-1/8, Se171ng 30-5/4.
(c) Misc-llaneous Financial Notes
The Ju unose sil unf: cturcrs are disturbed at the
decr asins demards for toeir roduct on the part of their
pest customer, tit Uni ted States. For October the amount
purchase fron Ja an vas the lowest figure for many years,
bei t 0,5. 1 bules,  cecl ine of nearly 50% from the
same montt ver,n
64 less bales than were purchased
inter.
B t  sil ex ortave been decrcasing
t t detri ont f t t  rntr, the rayon producers have
ben enj
mo it. to t ting nave the profits
 tith the last t ooths five new companies
et
yor  ve n f de in Japan, and
two

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
Railways too. both Government and r
shown a marked increase in their earnings
years: For the Dovernment roads the inore
ceipts from April 1 to November 15 oter the
year amounted to about thirty million yen.
Japanese canned crab exporte from Januany I um
October amounted to 343,888 thousand boxes as a1n
266,036 thousand boxes in the same period a year r
The Japanese Ship Improvement Encouragement Law prc
vides that all owners wishing to build new vessels with
Government subsidies must scrap old bottoms equal to twa
the ne tonnage. This has proved a boon to the importato
of old ships from foreign countries, for many owners of
old vessels wishing to rofit by the Government subsidi
yet not wanting to screp their ol ships, the price of which
they believe wil? adv nce, have been purchasing old foreign
ships to scrap. The orices paid for th se old hulks range
anywhere from exican do1lars 25,000 to  40,500. Obvious1y
is  terdeney cefeats the purpose of the law.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
111
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CONMERCIAL INTRR
Nii.
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
N1l.
X.MISCELLANEOUS
(a) Pooulation
The population of Japan proper on October 1 was
66,238,600. This is an increase of 942,600 over the f1gur
for the same day of 1932. of the total mumber 83,796,400
were males and 33,442,200 females. Tokyo had the 1argest
urban population witi 5,486,200 inhabitants.
(b) Death of Princess Asaka
Princess Nobuko Asaka, consort of Prince Yasuhiko
Asaka, eighth daughter of the late Emperor Meiji, and Aunt
of th: resent Em eror, died of nephritis in her palace
in Tokyo on Jovember 3. The Princess who was born on August
7, 1891, was buried on November 12 and rer funera1 was at-
tonded by memhers of the Im erial F mily and the Chiefs of
Diplomatic  ssions accredited to th's country. A ninety
da: perin of court mo rning was decreeed following the
death.
(c) Cnarity
t Litsui Gomei Kaisha, the agency of
ver
the

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
80 000,000 had-been contrtputed
Welfare of the Jepanese people.
the care of a foundation, which will
ture for "various social enterprises of pub
It is contemplated that such enterprisos wii
scientific research, cultural enterprises publte
tions tending towards the development o agpt
fish ng villages, and the support of public welfar
charitable organizations now existing or which m
tablished in the future. This project, whieh givwm indi
tion of having been modeled on the plan of the Boaofel
Foundation, is the greatest foundation of its kind in th
history of Japan.
(d) Night Air Mail Service
On November ? there was inaugurated between Tokyo and
Osaka a night air mail service. As soon as the necessary
air beacons have been com leted it is planned to extend the
service to Fukuoka. Latr passengers will also be carried.
(For some time past thcre has been a day passenger service
between Tokyo an! Osaka.)

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
Claime ef American
in cannection with mino-Jay
Shainghai
Establishment of an mricen Dons
Newspaper clippings on narceties.
671
2,
General Araki's proposal for an Int
Peace Conferance at Tokye.
578
2,
Japanese reaotion to propose& conversasi
between Russia and U. 8.
573
2,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
Low costs at which Japanese goods are of
the American market.
575
Article regarding Naval Rivalry.
576
9,
Special bulletins of the merica-Japan
577
10,
Diplomatic visa report.
578
10,
Books for the Department's Library.
579
11,
Address made by the Ambassador.
580
11,
Monthly political report for Ootober.
581
Report on trials of the reactionaries involved
in the May 15th incident.
582
16,
Pro-Japanese writers.
583
16,
Requisition for electric light bulbs.
584
16,
Militarization of the South Manchurian Railway.
585
17,
Japanese Government's plans regarding open gold
market.
586
17,
Fairfield Paper Co., "importation of paper cartons.
587
17,
Diplometic visa report.
588
17,
Japanese Government Report on Administration of
the South Sea Islands for 1932.
589
Payment of consumption tax by members of this Embassy.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
Fro-Japaness
26,
Delivery of mealed pereel
595
18,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
504
29,
Laying of keel of U.S.8. ALYWIN.
595
29,
Americen-Japanese relations.
596
29,
Communism in Japan.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
Now 7, 3 p.m.
Tranafer of American
9, 5 p.m.
Export bounty on Amriom
174
11, noon.
Press ban on establishment
in Manchukuo.
175
18, 6 p.m.
Press report of Russo-Japene
near Kamchatka.
176
" 16, 7 p.m.
Export bounty on Amerdcan
177
" 18, 5 p.m.
Request for appointment by Boviet
Ambassador.
178
* 20, 4 p.m.
Press report of Sino-Russo-âmertes
against Japan.
179
 21, 11 a.m.
Gold purchase policy or Japaneo
180
22, 5 p.m.
Autonomy move in Fukien Province.
181
22, 11 p.m.
Movement of troop trains to Manohuria
183
24, 2 p.m.
Receipt of new code tables.
183
 24, 3 p.m.
n
n
184
" 24, 4 p.m.
Compensation of contingent employoes.
185
" 28, 4 p.m.
Export bounty on Amerioan wheat.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 2, 1934.
mm
The following features of Tokyo's
report for December 1933 are to be
partioularly noted.
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
One reason assigned for the appoint-
ment of Mr. Saito as Ambassador to the
United States is that, owing to his
comparative youthfulness, he will be able
to stay a long time at his post "and thus
acquire an intimate knowledge of con-
ditions in the country to which he is
aooredited." According to members of the
Japanese Embassy here, Mr. Saito is not
substantially younger than either Mr.
Hanihara or Mr. Matsuidara at the time of
their respective appointments to
Washington.
The Embassy reports on page 3 that
there has been a noticeable change in the
attitude of viscount Ishii towards the
United States during the past two years.
In the speech which he made in June l932,
Visoount Ishii stated in substance that
war would result if the United States
should seek to dominate the western
Pacifio.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
aoifio. Recently, however, Viscount
Ishii has made several statements of a
propitiatory nature.
It is to be noted (pages 4 and 5)
that the radio broadoasts given from
Washington in honor of the birth of the
Japanese Prince have lead to suggestions
of utilizing the radio to influence
American-Japanese relations.
RELATIONS WITH CHINA.
"Sino-Japanese relations fcr the month
of December were uneventful."
Exports from Japan to Shanghai for the
month of November were greater than during
any other month since September 193l. It
is indioated that the anti-Japanese
feeling in China is lessening and that
trade between the two countries is
gradually improving.
RELATIONS WITH THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
The Embassy refers to a press state-
ment made on December 2 to the effect that
the Japanese Ambassador at London had been
instructed to propose to the British Gov-
ernment the holding of a preliminary con-
ference on naval disarmament. The Embassy
states that the origin of this story is
unknowm but indicates that no credence
should be attached to it. In connection
with the statement attributed to the
Japanese

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
anese Foreign Minister, to the effeot
hat he intended to propose the holding
of a conference prior to the naval con-
ference scheduled for 1935, the Japanese
Chargé d'Affairs stated recently that he
did not understand that Mr. Hirota made
any such definite statement.
RBLATIONS WITH "MANCHUKUO".
The Army projeot to place the South
Manchuria Railway under the control of the
Kwantung Army is apparently being
abandoned, the Embassy understands, owing
to the opposition of the Overseas Minister.
The Embassy points out that the plan of
reorganization contemplated by the Army
would have required legislation, which
logislation the Diet, in the opinion of the
Japanese press, would not be prepared to
onaot.
It is suggested that you read the
paragraph beginning at the foot of page
10 which outlines the present status of the
C.E.R. negotiations.
RELATIONS WITH SOVIET RUSSIA.
Despite reports of feverish
activities by the Russians in the way of
constructing defense works in the Maritime
Province, the Embassy is of the opinion
that there has been a decrease in the
tension between the two countries, due in
part to Amerioan recognition of the Soviet
Union.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
6n.
DOMESTIC POLITICAL AFPAIRS.
It is suggested that you read the
section marked (g) beginning on page 19,
whioh disousses an inoreasing tendenoy on
the part of the Japanese press and
politicians to oriticize the Army and Navy.
▲ foreign affairs investigation burean
has been set up in the Foreign Office (see
page 21). During the war there was
ostablished the diplomatic advisory
counoil which was composed of prominent
statesmen regardless of party affiliations.
The counoil was abolished two or three
years after the conclusion of the war for
the reason that the international rela-
tions of the countries did not require an
extra legal organization of this nature.
Sinoe September 1931 it has been
repeatedly proposed that a special bureau
be formed in the Foreign Office to act as
a planning board on foreign affairs. The
Embassy reports that the Privy Counoil
has not been favorably disposed towards
proposals of that nature, but that the
Privy Council has approved the establish-
ment of an "advisory board which would
assist in the formulation of important
national policies". This board is to
consist of officials and of persons who
are not government officials. It would
seem therefore to be half-way between the
old

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
anning
diplomatic advisory counoil and the
ggested foreign office bureau. Mr.
Horinouchi, recently Consul General at
New York, has been appointed to assume
charge of the board.
BCONOMIC MATTERS.
It is suggested that you glanoe over
the figures on page 24, outlining the
foreign trade of Japan for 1933 as
compared with the figures for the
preceding year.
BED/REY

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIC
DEPARTRENT OF STA
Tokyo, Januarl
Ho 16-17,21=26
No. 636.
SUBJECT:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
During the Month of December. 1933.
Jill
-1915
ASV
Divigon of
AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 27 1934
JAN 30 1934
3
Department of State
FEH 26 1934
FEB8 1934
8
DEL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIIS.UN UF
mm
6
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIR:
94.00.P.R.
SRw
EAS LAA
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
DEPORTM!
FEB 28 1934
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
Japan for the month of December, 1933.
Respectfully rours,
FLED
Enclosupé:
Joseph C. Grew.
Report'No. 87.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
11
" Consulate General, Shanghai.
1n
" Consulate General, Mukden.
11
" Consulate General, Harbin.
n
" Consulate, Dairen.
In Triplicate to the Department.
800-Japan.
CBL:g

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF DECEMBER. 1933.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEX AND BUMYA
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED TA
(a) Hiroshi Saito succeeds Mr. Debuchi.
(b) Viscount Ishii's Change of Attitude.
(c) Japanese reaction to American Recogn1
tion of Soviet Russia.
(a) Radio Programs to Promote Japaneso-Ameri-
can Relations.
45
(e)
Attempt to improve American-Japanese
Business Relations.
5
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China.
6,7
(b) The British Empire.
7.,8,9
(c) "Manchukuo"
9,10,11
(a)
Soviet Hussia.
11,12
(e)
Germany.
12,18
Brazil..
13,14
III.
INTLA NAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
Birti of the Crown Prince.
15
(b)
The Opening of the Diet.
15,16
(c)
Propesed Japanese Retaliation against
Com erciel Liscrimination.
16,17
((1)
Mr. Matsuoka's resign tion from the Sei-
yukai Party.
17,18
(e)
Politic : Parties.
18
(f)
F.r. elief...
18,19
(ε)
Criticism of the Army und the Navy.... 19,20,21
(h)
Ne. For Lgn OfFice Bureau.
21
(1)
Trials.
21,22
(3)
o. Sent Troops Trial.
(1:)
venent
22,23
(1)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX AND SUOMARY
-2-
(1) Nationalism.
23
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
NIL
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
NIL
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a)
Japan's Foreign Trade.......
.24,25
(b)
Foreign Exchange......
.25,26
(0)
Miscellaneous Financial Notes........26,27
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS: NIL
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOR IGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS:
NIL
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
NIL
X. MISCEALLENOUS:
(a)
Death of Count Yamamoto......
.28
(b)
Aborigines in Taiwan Cause Concern...28
(c)
Farn Training for Unemployed.......
28,29
(a)
Notes on Communism.
29
(e)
Undersea Railway for Shimonoseki.... 29
(f)
Kodo.
29,30

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
The return after a five year st
of Mr. Debuchi and the appointment of Wr.
as his successor stand out as the most importa
in Japanese-American relations for December.
ment of Mr. Saito, a comparatively young man for smsh
important position, has met with a most faverable
in this country. It is believed that the recommemdati
of the Army coupled with his general popularity with
vernment officials of all departments were the factors re-
sponsible for his promotion to the Ambassadorship ower
heads of some twenty seniors, among whom were included Dr.
Sugimura and Mr. S. Yoshida, former Ambassador to Rome.
Another consideration to which the Foreign Minister is said
to have attached importance in making his solection is the
fact that due to his comparatively young age Mr. Saito will
be enabled to stay in his new post a long time and thus ac-
quire an intimate knowledge of conditions in the country to
which he is accredited, a policy which the critics of the
present Japanese diplomacy have long been advocating.
Mr. Saito has been instructed to proceed to the United
States directly from the Hague, where he has been serving
as Japanese Minister to Holland since last June. After a
few months at his new post he will be recalled to Tokyo in
order to report on conditions in the United States and to
assist in the formulation of a policy best adapted to
serve Japanese interests in preparation for the naval con-
ference which is scheduled to be held in 1935.*
The
*See Telegram No. 193, December 23, 1933.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
mant a furthor evidan
ter s determined efforts to establis
and diplematic relations betwsem the 
Japan. Moreover in spite of the advice of bot
American Ambassador and Mr. Debuchi that the pre
time would be inappropriate for sending a goodwlil
pedition to the United States, rumors still persiat
the Minister for Foreign Affairs may do thie. The
MAINICHI of December ZO states:
" The Foreign Minister attaches great importanoe
vernment is expected to formulate some time pext
year. He hopes to send an economic commission to
Amorica not long after Mr. Saito's arrival in
Washington. His idea is to let the economic com-
mission negotiate for trade relations, side by
side with the diplomatic negotiations."
Such action the journal points out will probably
forestall the raising of American tariffs on a variety of
Japanese goods.
(b) Viscount Ishii's Change of Attitude.
In view of the fear of many prominent Japanese re-
garding an American-Japanese trade war it is interesting
to note that Viscount Ishii, Japanese Delegate to the
World Economic Conference, in an address before the America-
Japan Society on December 7, branded talk of an economic
war between the two countries as idle. He declared that in
so much as the trade of Japan and the United States comple-
ment each other it must be impossible for them to become
rivals, or as he himself phrased it "Commercially speaking
therefore, the United States and Japan are not competitors
but

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
Interdependence and harmony.
In tiow of the rather antagonistic attitu
by viscount Ishii in an address delivered by h
193e at a dinner of welcome to the American Ambees
to Tokyo, it is most interesting to note his complet
change of attitude towards the United States. This i
avidenced by his reference to Mr. Roosevelt's broad
generous view ****** and high statesmanship." Another
striking example of Viscount Ishii's change of view cn
be gained from the following quotation from the same d-
dress before the America-Japan Society when in referring
to Japan's principle of free trade and open door he ob
served:
"She (Japan) means to continue to adhere faithfully
to these well-established rules of international dealings.
It was therefore a matter of great disappointment and dis-
couragement to find that our propositions on these lines
could not secure the acquiescence, still less approval, of
the other delegations (at the World Economic Conference).
The United States was the only Government among the lead-
ing commercial nations of the world who was prepared to en-
ter into similar engagements. The fact is that most of the.
countries are stendily running toward economic and financial
nationalism."
(c)
Japanese reaction to American Recognition of Soviet
Russia.
Although reports from "official quarters" in Hsinking
711
continued to deny the fact, rumors persisted throughout the
month

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
month thet Bovlet Russza was to l
the United States for development.
December 24 even went so far as to
of the lease which was to extend for thirty
provided that the gold produced in the torritory
be divided equally between the United Btates
until the debts owed the former by the latter had boen
paid off; that the United States would enjoy the privi
lege of working the Niikatz oil fields for twenty-five
years; and that the Soviet Government would pay the
United States Government Yen 200,000,000 or twemty per
cent of its former debts. While this story is typical of
the fantastic inaccuracy of the Japanese press it is con
EE
trary to the general tone of most of the publicity given
the recognition, which for the most part attempts to prove
that the action of the United States will in no way prove
unfavorable to Japan. The JAPAN TIMES even finds in the
new condition the probability of increased trade for Japan
and goes to great trouble to point out in a long article
that it will be the countries of Europe which will suffer
economically rather than Japan, though it does suggest
the possibility of the latter feeling the effects politi-
cally.
(d) Radio Programs to Promote Japanese-American Relations.
So successful was the special radio program from the
United States on December 29 in honor of the birth of the
81117494
Crown Prince, which included speeches by the United States
Acting Secretary of State and the Japanese Chargé d'Affaires
in

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
105
die to improve Japenese-
to this program the Hochl heartily
dited to the American Secretary of
exchange of programs between the two
Relations.
As evidence of the thoroughness of the Jap
tempt to improve relations with the United stat
to be noted that already there are indications of
on the part of the business interests of Japan toward
betterment of conditions from the point of view of
commercial interests.** This is indicated in the recom
visit paid by Mr. Takashi Komatsu, who recently repreaunted
Japanese Rotarians and the Japan Chamber of Commerce during
a trip to the United States, to the General Manager of the
Socony-Vacuum Corporation in Japan.
The purpose of the visit was an attempt on the part
of a private individual to assist the Socony-Vaouum Corpora-
tion to straighten out certain difficulties with whioh it
has been faced in both Japan and Manchuria. The visit was
probably no more nor less than a friendly gesture on the
part of a Japanese citizen and while it is doubtful if it
was officially instigated, it was no doubt indirectly in-
spired by the propaganda instigated to improve Japanese-
American relations.
* See Telegram No. 194. December 29, 1933.
** SeeDespatch No. 624, December 27, 1933.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
工
6
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China
Save for the interest with which the reoent foi
of a new and independent Government in the provine.
Fukien has been watched, Sino-Japanese relations
month of December were uneventful. The new Govermment.
is considered communistic and the province being situated
so close to the island of Formosa the Japanese authoritig
are naturally anxious. They feel that the revolution oc-
curring just at this time is particularly infortunate in
so much as a month ago there was every appearance of pro-
gress having been made toward Sino-Japanese amicability.
The new movement now presents an a ditional difficulty
with which the Nanking Government must cope and further
reduces the prestige of that organization and obviously
not only complicates negotiations by the Japanese over
"Manchukuo" but renders them futile. Two Japanese warships
have been despatched to the district and on December 1 the
Japanese Minister to China requested the president of the
Executive Yuan to se that Japanese nationals be protected
and effective steps be taken to prevent the circulation
of anti-Japanese propaganda, such as the charges made by
some Chinese journals that Japan was associated with the
movement.
In this connection the NIPPON of December 5 carried
an interesting story to the effect that the Fukien Govern-
ment was purchasing aeroplanes from the United States in
payment for which it wonl cede to the United States the
island known as the Go' en Gate, which lies just opposite
the

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
the port of Amoy.
In spite of the denial of General Chen Ming-shu,
chairman of the political section of the military com  tt
that the Fukien Government was not anti-Japanese in enti
ment the feeling at the Japanese Foreign Office is one
pessimism regarding the entire question. This feeling us
been augmented by the imposition of special taxes on Japan
ese products (as well as products of other foreign nations)
which it is believed must eventually lead to international
complications.
However, while Fukien may present difficulties some
oneouraging signs of a general improvement in Sino-Japan-
ese relations are evidenced in the fact that Japanese ex-
ports to Shanghai for November were greater than any other
month since the Manchurian incident and as the anti-Japanese
feeling appears to be lessening Japanese trade with China
on the whole is stated to be on the up grade.
(b) The British Empire.
The British Ambassador to Japan, Sir Francis Lindley,
741.94
returned to this country on December 22 after a six months
absence on leave. Shortly after his arrival he conferred
with tin: Minister nd Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs re-
garding the Indi n-Japanese trade conference which is tak-
ing place at New Delhi. Following this interview the Vice
Minister for Foreign Aff irs is ouoted as having informed
Sir Francis that although the negotiations had reached
the fin st ges the conclusion of the conference was being
elayed. However, he alled, a final settlement was expected
early

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
gord will have been initialed by Ja
revivification of the expirins confwre
attributed to the Indian Government's tai
which was submitted to the Indian Parliamemi
23 and became effective the same day withoat
notice having been given. By the nem bill the
on some twenty kinds of Japanese merchandiss weme
and in the opinion of the Kobe Chamber of Commere
action is tantamount to a ban on importera and po
specializing in the Indian market. Perhaps it was Just
a jolt as this that the delegates needed to stir th in
to action for it is now understood that a final settlemint
will be reached at New Delhi which will embrace the lirt
ing of the Japanese boycott on Indian raw cotton, a re
duction of the Indian rate on Japanese goods from 75 to
50%, and an annual quota of Japanese piece goods to be
exported to India of 400,000,000 square yards.
The JIJI of December 2 announced that since
"Foreign Minister Hirota's policy to open prelimi-
nary conferences with the United States of America
prior to the opening of the next disarmament con-
ference of 1935 has given a good impression to the
United States and Great Britain alike, the Foreign
Minister yesterday issued instructions to Ambassa-
dor Matsudaira in London asking him to approach
the British Government with a proposal to open
preliminary conferences prior to the opening of the
next disarmament conference of 1935."
The origin of this filler is unknown, but if it is as un-
founded as the various stories which were published in the
local press about the "conversations" which occurred be-
tween the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Amerioan
Ambassador

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
9
Ambassador in November,little credence should pé
the report.*
The Australian-Japanese trade has shom a
growth annually since 1930, and for the first
of this year Australian exports to Japan increased hy 
over the previous period last year whereas Japanese
to Australia improved by as much as 54%. Naturally thi
enormous increase has been of concern to the Australian
Government, which has intimated its desire to send to thi
country in February a group of representatives to diseus
with the Japanese officials trade relations between the
two countries,as well as various Pacific problems. This
project has been most favorably received by the Japanese.
(c) "Manchukuo".
March 1 will be the second anniversary of the founding
of the state of "Manchukuo" and it is understood that on
that date the state wil? be declared an empire with the
chief administrator, Henry Pu-Yi,as emperor.** All the
local newspapers have been leading up to this important an-
nouncement and printing stories of the "great changes"
w ich will occur at that date, but as yet it is not believed
that any journal has actually announced that the empire will
be created in so much as there has been a Government press
ban on the subject. However, this fact is common knowledge
in both Peiping and Tokyo and in the former city it is
stated that the whole of North China wil! be included in
the empire an Pu-Yi wi I ascend the Dragon throne of his
ancestors in Peiping. Irrespective of where he establishes
is cupital, the new emperor will have nore subjects than
he
*Dee Despate No. Bob, vember o.
 Se Telegram Ne. 1e,

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
pendenee; at 20,000,000,000,a cenm
l1oxby the "Manchukuo" Gote
84,194,980. Fengtieh has the 1ara
14,996, 630 1n a total arem of 46,51e
9,191,980 in 104,160 square miles,
Ho11
in 126,102 square miles, Jehol 4,500,000 2n 61,00 0
m1les, and Hsingan 395,000 in 126,078 square m11.
Japanese population, which includes 800,000 Kore
placed at 950,000 exclusive of the Kwantung Leased
tory.
It appears that the project of the-Kwantung Army to
reorganize the South Manchuria Railway must be abandoned
for the present at least,* since the plan is opposed by
the Overseas Minister, who, it has been established to
the surprise of the Army, has the final say as to how the
road shall be run. It now would seem that the only mean
the Army has of gaining complete control of the road is
through favorable legislation in the Diet, which legisla-
tion the vernacular press at least believes would never
be authorized by the present Government.
The close of December saw no change in the static
condition at which the negotiations for the sale of the
Chinese Eastern Railway have arrived. Recently the Con-
sul General of the Soviet Union in Harbin handed the di-
plomatic agent of "Manchukuo" a severe warning. However,
it would not appear that the Soviet delegation expected
this to result in any very immediate action, in so much as
it permitted Mr. Baryschnikov, a director of
the
Ser despatch No.  7, December 11, 1933.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
5
C
owiet State Banlr and a
ovtet Gopernment who oame to
technical points, to retum to Momodw
ever the publicity secretary of the
still of the opinion that the sale will he
elyded successfully,* though the Soviets rett
the negotiat1ons until the Japanese release sevesal
cials of the railroad whom it is claimed they have
cerated. These arrests were protested against in
morandum referred to above which was deliverad. to the
chukuo" authorities. Furthermore, the Soviets accusda
"Manchukuo" with following a conscious policy aimed at
quidating the rights of the Soviet Union, decreasing the
importance of the Chinese East rn Railway, and ultimatel
bringing about complete seizure of the line. It would
that the Soviet would be forced to resume negotiations soon
at any cost, however, in so much as every day's delay shows
an increase in "Manchukuo's" railway mileage and if Moscow
neglects the negotiations for much longer she must realis
as the OSAKA MAINICHI points out,that the "N.M.R. (formerly
Chinese Eastern Railway) will soon be practically reduced
to zero in valuation."
(d) Soviet Russia.
A despatch from Pogranichnaya of December 12 reports
76
that hundrens of thou ands of men are engaged in the con-
struction of defense works for Russia along the Maritime
Province - "Manchukuo" border, that hangars for 80 aero-
lanes will be ready by August at Wosvyenka, and already
80
*See Despatc No. 606, December 4, 1937.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
12
00 mayal planes are concentrated at Okes
of such stories and the expressed concern of ti
Ambassador here* there seems to have been a deere
the tension which marked the Soviet-Japanese
a few months ago. The efforts of Mr. Hirota, th
for Foreign Affairs, the discontinuance of the ntf
propaganda, which the Army employed to secure acceptane
of its budget, and the strengthening of the Soviet politi
cal situation by American recognition are among the factors
which contribute to the apparent improvement of the rola-
tions between the two countries existent at present. Al-
though Mr. Litvinov in his address to the Tsik on Decem-
ber 29 broadly intimated that not only Germany but Japan
was contemplating an aggressive war against the Soviet,
eivdence of such action on the part of the latter nation
in the imrediate future is lacking in Tokyo.
It is rcgarded as highly probable that Yen 10,000,000
worth of wheat wil! be imported into Japan from the Soviet
Union. It is stated that due to a bumper crop the Soviet
Union is enabled to export this amount of wheat to Japan
at a price considerably lower then the worla market. The
Soviet Grain Export Union was unsuccessful in its attempts
to dispose of this wheat in European countries due to the
various im ort restrictions now existent in most countries
there. Japan on the other hand must import annually ap-
proximately four times this amount of wheat and has hither-
to made her purchases mainly from the United States and
Conaña.
(e)
Germy.
Ir. Jur Herhert von Iircksen, the new German Ambassador
to
*See Lestate
o. o6, pecenber ,

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
this pountry arrived in Tokyo Deae
Daraksen caused considerable resens
journaldsts shortly after assuming his quti
the Editor of the American owmed JAPAN ADYERTI
suing an apti-Hitler policy, and threath
the matter to Berlin if the tone of the nows and
relating to Germany in this paper was not phanged.
Editor of the ADVERTISER claimed that he was 1more
having pursued such a policy, (and it must be admitted
most of the readers of that journal would be forced
confess a similar ignorance). Furthermore as the Berlin
subscription to the ADVERTISER, as might be expected, 1s
practically nil, the Editor failed to be alarmed by the
German Ambassador's threat.
The Japanese Ambassador to Germany recently suggested
to the Japanese Foreign Office that it attempt to control
exports from Japan to Germany since that country is becom-
ing alarmed at the inroads made by Japanese products in her
home markets. If some such action is not taken, the Ambas-
sador fears rastic measures in the form of tariffs will be
ado ted by Germany and other European countries. Similar
warnings have already been voiced by the Japanese Ambassador
in London, the Minister in Spain, the Consul General in New.
York and other members of the Japanese foreign service
throughout the world.
(f) Brazil.
On December 27 some 700 Japanese emigrants sailed for
Brazil

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.92)
-14-
Brasil. This brings the total number of emigrants tr
Japan to that country for 1933 up to 22 810, a new

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
15
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Birth of the Crowm Prince.
In the early morning of December 23 two sirens m
nounced the birth of the Crown Prince of Japan This ont
91.0011
brought joy to millions and was the signal for general ro
joicing throughout the Empire. In as much as the first
four children of the Imperial family were girls ( threoor
these are now living) the birth of a male heir, who will be
known as Tsugu-No-Miya (One who will succeed to enlightened
benevolence), solves one of the most pressing problems which
faced those who occupy and surround the throne. For days
following the birth thousands of loyal subjects flocked to
the Imperial Palace to pay their respects and on the twenty-
ninth of the month, the day of the naming of the Prince, the
city of Tokyo was elaborately decorated and the brilliant
celebration there and throughout the nation conclusively es-
tablished the sincere devotion and deep reverence of the
Japanese people for their Imperial family.
(b) The Opening of the Dict.
The sixty-fifth session of the Diet convened on Decem-
ber 23, on Decomber 26 it was formally opened by the Emperor,
994.
and qn December ?7 both Houses adjourned unt1l January 22.
Replies to the Imperial Rescript and messages of congratula-
tion to the throne constituted the rief business enacted
prior to the adjournment for the year-end holidays. While
t cre has been cons  erable talk of a dissolution of the
Diet since th milit ry po ers are dissatisfied with the
Government's ability to desl wit present day conditions, a
drastic ste, of this nature would have to be taken by the
Emperor
No. 11, Deceml er :4, 1633.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
-16
Emperor on the advice of the Prime Ministar.
request the Prime Minister will not make ntil.
strong evidence that the present Government 1s
carry out its program, and as neither important polid
party would gain by an election at the present time the
current opinion is that political leaders will refraim
forcing such action, However, when it does really mettl
down to business the Diet will be faced with many motty
problems including farm relief, the control of foreim
trade, the budget, and the entire question of the May 15
trials, and the disparity of the sentences imposed on tho
militarists and civilians involved therein. A less pressing
matter,but one concerning which there has been considerable
agitation of late which is certain to be aired,is the ques-
tion of a reformation of the peerage. Certain members of
the peerage have recently been deprived of their titles for
being implicated in a gambling scandal and behavior which
was considered deleterious to the morals of the nation. The
local journals have been strong in denouncing these nobles
for conduct unbecoming to their position and countless edi-
torials have appeared during the last month advocating a
complete purging ano reformation of the present system.
Proposed Japanese Retaliation against Commercial
Discrimination.
The growing tendency of many countries of the world to
exclude Japanese goods from their markets is a problem which
has c used consicer:ble apprehension in this country.* Speak-
ing on this subject on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs on lece ber ?, Mr. Amau, Director of the Bureau of In-
telligence
* See lespate: ko. Pie, December b, 1933.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
telligence end Information of the Foraign Ofr
that henceforth the Japanese Government,dnte
a more rigid policy in this matter whicn wil
imposition of discriminatory tariffs on imports
tries where similar discriminations are in afseot
goods from this country. It is believed that this
policy has been motivated by information which ha
here that, led by Great Britain, certain European powerm
are contemplating concerted action to prevent a further
flood of Japanese goods. Regulations which will comp
manufacturers to organize for the control of exports ar
also contemplated. That some such measures are neeo
is borne out by a compilation of the Japanese Ministry
of Commerce and Industry which was recently publishod in
which were listed measures which were in force in twenty-
seven countries as of November 30 which aimed primarily
at the exclusion of Japanese imports.
(d) Mr. Matsuoka's Resignation from the Seiyukai Party.
Considerable publicity has recently been gained by
Mr. Yosuke Matsuoka, spokesman and chief delegate of Japan
at Geneva when the Manchurian Incident was under discussion,
by his resignation not only from the Seiyukai Party but
also from the Diet. In a public statement issued by him
at the time he took this action, he scathingly denounced
party government for Japan and reiterated the oft repeated
phrases concerning the "corruption and insincerity"of the
politicans. Recently Mr. Matsuoka has been displaying in-
creasing intim cy with the military element, working as a
lecturer t large gatherings of ex-Servicemen, and it is
not

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
-18
not at all improbable that his presept course
is prompted by a desire to aet any role for whish
be cast by the military party, by which some persos
when the present Cabinet falls. Be that as it may,on
December 24 Mr. Matsuoka made an appeal under the auepi-
cies of the OSAKA MAINICHI, an ardent supporter of the
military party, for the dissolution of the political per-
ties, claiming that all party strife, class war, and othe
forms of antagonism should be cast aside in the face of
the present emergency.
(e) Political Parties.
Another method of dealing with the political situation
was manifested on December 25 when Baron Nakajima, the
Minister of Commerce and Industry, assembled a number of
the leaders of both the Seiyukai and the Minseito at dinner
and urged the two partics to cooperate for the common weal.
Although the discussion of specific political issues was
avoided "a spiritual cooperation" is said to have been
reached between the two parties.
(f) Farm Relief.
The plight of the f: rmers, which was given so much
publicity during the trials last sum er of those involved
in the May 15 assasrinations, is ever a popular subject
among the politicians. Mr. Goto, the Mirister of Agriculture
and Forestry,has been presenting consistently, if not effec -
tively, a orogram for hich he demands immediate attention.
Gener  Araki froquently condones the unhappy state of the
"backbone

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
ful in persuading the Minister of Agrieulture ko
by 50% the increase in the allotment demanded for
department. The Cabinet Ministers held, durins
a series of conferences on rural relief after eight
which they issued vague statements agreedng on the
ritual development of the welfare of the farmer, "cent
of fertilizers" and other equally intangible policies. he
Minister of the Navy, Admiral Osumi,is the latest to ster
forward in defense of the farmer and he proposes the es-
tablishment of munition factories in the rural districts,
instead of in the large cities as they are presently lo-
cated, in order that the labor for these may be recruited
from the farming districts, which would thus in turn be
enabled to derive some benefit from the war industry pros-
perity which Japan is at present enjoying.
(g) Criticism of the Army and the Navy.
In spite of the successful campaign which they have
carried on during the last two years in stirring up the
people with stories of a national emergency and crisis, the
army and navy have not been entirely successful in silenc-
ing their critics among the financiers, economists and 11-
beral leaders throughout the nation. In a final attempt
to do this both the War and Navy Offices issued statements
on December 9, the forrer of which declares that attempts
have been mae to create ill-feeling between the Army and
the people by representing the crisis of 1936 as due en-
tirely to Army propaganda and by declaring that the interests
and welfare of the rural communities have been sacrificed
for

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
or the make of military wxpanston. This ls
plot to weaken the national defense, the stats
and it also adds that the Third Internationale
geged in a scheme to bring about the eventual detest
this country. In closing the statement defonds
military budget as having been made in order to efr
the "eternal peace of the state and everlasting. prosper
and welfare of the nation." The statement of the Navy
Department is in general accord with that of the other
armed service. Newspaper comments of the statements have
been for the most part critical and the HoCHI expresses
the general opinion that the people were hitherto quito
ignorant of the attempt which it is claimed has been made
to separate them from the Army.
In a further attcmpt to quell criticism of his poli-
cies General Araki invited representative members of the
House of Peers to his residence on December 20 in order
to explain and justify to them the military budget for
the next fiscal year. That he failed in his purpose
would seem to be ind cated by the report that the members
were surprisingly outspoken and critical in their question-
ing of the Ge. eral who was soon put on the defensive and
forced to give c nciliatory answers.
At present the brunt of the criticism seems to be
falling on the Army, the Navy is in the meanwhile proceed-
ing with its expansion plans which will result in the com-
pletion by 1936 of 48 large and small warships with an
aggregate tonnage of 110,000. Next year there is to be a
spec1al

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
21-
speoial grand manoeuvre in which all naval forces wili
take part.
(h) New Foreign Office Bureau.
The Privy Council on December 27 suggested the ea-
tablishment of a new bureau in the Foreign Office to b
known as the Investigation Bureau. The duty of this bu-
reau, it is stated, will be to assemble information on:
foreign affairs necessary to facilitate the operation of
the Foreign Office, to which it will bear comparatively
the same relation as does the General Staff to the Army.
The new organ was proposed at the time Count Uohida was
Minister for Foreign Affairs and the matter was again
taken up by Mr. Hirota, who felt the need of an advisory
board which would assist in the formulation of important
national policies. However, the board as recommended by
the Privy Council would include a number of persons, who,
while they are of considerable prominence, are not Govern-
ment officials. The Cabinet therefore, is not in favor
of the plan, and the matter is now in abeyance. A second
measure recomnended by the Council is a plan whereby di-
plomats at their posts are prohibited from being appointed
vice-ministers, chiefs of bureau, or to other government
posts.
(i) May 15 Trials.
imposed so far
Penalties henvier than any of the sentences on any of
the purticipants in the so-called May 15 Incident were de-
manded by the procurator for the civilians involved in the
c se. For the two leaders of the civilian arm of the con-
spiracy he trked life imprisonment and for the others, sen-
tences

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
82 -
tonces ranging from 15 down to 7 years. The defens
sel in contrast made scaroely any plea for his def
and conducted his argument in a hurried manner.I
sections this is explained as being done to expedite the
trial in hopes that amnesty will be granted in conpoquence
of the birth of the Heir to the Throne.
A dramatic situatlon arose on December 9 when Judge
Teijiro Sakamaki, who had presided over the trial of the
Blood Brotherhood, and who had been accused by its leader
of inattention toward the cause of the defendants, resign-
ed from the District Court. Ill heaith was given as the
reason for the judge's resignation but the real cause 1s
said to be the mortification he suffered at being the
cause of the indignity he had brought to the bench.
(j) God-Sent Troops Trial.
Hikoichi Naito, former managing director of the Matsu-
ya Department Store, charged with having forged the stock
certific tes of that company to the amount of millions of
yen in connection with his part in the God-Sent Troops in-
cident of last JuIy, ied on December ll. The official
reports stated t at stomach ailment had caused the death
of the principal figure in this far reaching conspiracy,
which was nipped last sumner by the police before it had
a chance to t un er way.
(x) Asia Movement.
The lat t marifestation of the Asia Movement occurred
on December 16 when  rge meeting was held at Hibiya Hall
in Toltyo attenied by members of tue Seinen Kyodan, or Young
Men's

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
23
and save the world. Other speakers included represent
tives from Turkey, Persia, Afghanistan, India, Siam, Anmam,
the Philippines, China, "Manchukuo", Mongolia, and Central
As1a.
(1) Nationalism.
In order to work more in harmony together and to spread
more effectively among the people the doctrine of nationalism
some 30o representatives of patriotic organizations assembled
in Tokyo on December 1l. The meeting unanimously agreed on
proposing a people's Diet which would have more interest in
the affairs of the masses t an the present Diet. Some ob-
servers are of the opinion that this assembly is the fore-
runner of a movement to suspend the Diet in case of opposi-
tion to the budget and other measures. Whether this is a
correct assumption or not is not known, but the fact remains
that the ex-Servicemen's Assocition and other organizations,
which are under cirect ilitary influence, were the motivating
forces in the entire movement.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
LABION:
GOVTUTMENT FIR
VI.
GENERAL CONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Japan's Foreign Trade.
Japanese exports and imports for the month or De
showed an increase over November, and while the total
for the month was considerably greater than for the
month last year, the amount of exports in December 198s
was slightly under the total for the same month a year age
The amounts were as follows:
Exports
Imports
(in 1,000 yen)
December 1932
172,718
160,687
December 1933
172,282
185,228
Total 1932
1,409,992
1,430,961
Total 1933
1,861,104
1,917,148
The above figures are for Japan proper and the follow-
ing are those for the Empire:
Total
1,457,295
1,524,529
Total 1933
1,932,069
2,017,504
(The above figures were supplied by the Commercial Atttaché.)
It is interesting to note that while Japan's imports
have exceeded her exports every year since l924 last year
this excess was smaller, with the exceptions of 1929 and
1932, than other years. The net import excess has been
as

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
(1n 1,000 yon)
805,952
1929
136,247
1930
176
1986
267,782
1931
289
1987
232,586
1932
48,000
1928
148,641
1983
95,485
A'decline of 0.8 per cent featured the wholesale
prices in the 13 principal cities of Japan for Novembery
according to the report just published by the Department
of Commerce and Industry. However 96, at which the 1n-
dex stood as against 96.8 for the previous month, repr-
sented a gain of 3.3 as against the same month last year.
(The average prices in 1929 are taken as 100,) In Tokyo
commodity prices also registered a slight drop of O.3 per
cent from October. However, here too this is the equiva-
lent of a rise of 2.3 per cent over November 1932.
In spite of these decreases there has been a further
rise in the cost of living in Japan according to the ASAHI
of 1.7 (or one per cent) over November. The index number
was stationary in August but has been steadily rising since
September, and shows an increase since August of 3.2 (or
1.9 per cent). The index includes foodstuffs, rent, light
and heat, clothing, laundry, eucation, travelling, amuse-
ments and ordinary extras. The rise of five per cent in the
price of rice and 4.1 per cent in the rice of fuel are
responsible for a total rise of 3.3 por cent in the foodstuff
and fuel and light group taken together.
(b) Foreign Exchanke.
The

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
period with no particular change from the
receipt of the news that the Presidenthad
London Silver Padt developed a furthen dow
in the dollar but not to any great extent, and
end of the month the dollar was slightly stronger
the close of November. Quotations in Tokyo on the thir
tieth of December(the thirty-first was a Sunday)
elling 30-5/8; Buying 30-7/8.
(o) Miscellaneous Financial Notea.
A fair improvement has been registered in the businos
results of all banking institutions in this country. thoum
it is reported that there will be no extra distrtbationir
dividends on this account for 1933. The improvement re-
flected the general amelioration of business conditions
throughout Japan. For example the rayon output for Novem-
ber established an all-time high record and amounted to
85,486 boxes an increase of 3,121 boxes over October.
This improvement naturally is revealed in extra divid-
end payments, but the Ito-Chu Commercial Company is believed
to be one of the few com anies in the world which was able
to pay a 60 dividend last year. In other words in addi-
tion to its annual ividend of 10% an extra dividend of 50%
wa declared plus a distribution of Yen 250,000 to the
staff. The Japan Steel Tube Company on the other hand dis-
tributed a maximun bonus ecuivalent to 12 months salary and
a minimum of 6 months anl an average of 8.2 months to more
than 300) employees. In ad ition to this the company expressed
its gratitude to the instruments of its prosperity by donat-
ing

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
yup11so
ind its way back to the Japan Steet Tube
It has recently been revealed that
tile machinery and parts thereof From the Daited
to Japan for the eleven year period 192l--amo
L 14,332,000, This 1ncludes Taiwan and the Lea
tory. Imports of other machinery from the United ki
for the same period were valued at L 14,050,000.
It is reported that a Yen 10,000,000 compamwi1
established by the Nippon Sangyo Kaisha (Kuhara.iatere
for the manufacture of motor cars and parts in Japan
report, which appeared in the JAPAN CHRONICLE of Docember
8, adds that the "production capacity of the new company
will be 5,000 D.A.T. Son (run-about cars) and 20,000 sets
of motor parts," but neglects to add whether this is daily,
weekly, monthly, or annually.
Japan's first aluminum factory has been completed.
It is located in Nagano Prefecture. It is stated that the
daily production capacity is 10 tons which will take care
of part of the present Japanese imports of this metal which
total approximately 10,000 tons yer year.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
CTIVETIES OF AMDERICAN CO
ICTIVTTIEB OF FOREIGN COMMERCTSI
IX: LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
(a) Desth of Count Yamamoto.
Admiral Count Gombe1 Yamamoto, former Prime
and Navy Minister, died in Tokyo on December 8 at
of eighty-one. Admiral Yamamoto, who wa's one of the met
dwindling group of survivors of those who fought in
Imperial cause at the time of the Meiji Reotoration, was
appointed Minister of the Navy in 1898, Premier in 1913
and again in September 1923, at which time he was confront-
ed with the gigantic task of post-earthquake reconstruo-
tion.
(b) Aborigines in Taivwan Cause Concern.
After having attacked and killed a policemen and his
three children in Taiwan last November, the Aborigines of
that island were reported last month to be encamping them-
selves in a mountain f stness and increasing their number
in preparation for future raids on the villages. Trouble
in this quarter is the efore anticipated by the Japanese
authorities.
(c) Farm Trai ing for Unemployed.
Rec ntly the Mitsubishi interests donated Yen 10,000
for unemployed rolief. This, together with certain other
moni s hich have heen allotted from various municipal and
pref ctural re:ief fun's, the NICHI NiCHI reports will be
used

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
becial bapracks will be oenstrueted to
bersons throughout the eity who wilt be
the winter months and sent to "Manohukuo in
(a) Notes on Comuniam.
A press ban was recently lifted in Koreatand
disclosed that 29 reds had been arrested there of
22 had been indicted on charges of violatins the
preservation law. The remaining seven were cantio
about their future conduct and dismissed. Accord
the authorities the offenders, who were teathers,
reverse interpretation upon textbooks in an attempt to In-
fuse racial orejudice and communism into the minds of the
students. In Osaka too five young teaoors of primary
schools were recently placed under examination by the pe
lice and detained for having established an institute of
radical free education with the "Proletarian Artists' Lea-
gue".
(e) Undersea Railway for Shimonoseki.
The JAPAN TIMES of December 17 reports that plans for
an undersea railway tunnel across the straits of Shimono-
894.77
seki, connecting Honshu with Kyushu, are rapidly being
formulated at the Planning Burcau of the Railway Department.
The necd of such a project has long been felt and it is
anticiuated that the cost will be betreen twenty and thirty
million yen.
(f) Kodo,
Recently the Shiunso, a reactionary group of publicists
which

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
which issues pronouncements from time to
questions, in a two page explanation in the JAPh
of Kodo (literally, Imperial Way) developed a movel r
not acceptable theory. It is explained in the followin
quotation:
"The mutual prosperity principle, based on the Kodo
of Japan, wil require the two or three great na-
tions that now hold the majority of the undeveloped
natural resources of the world to open these re-
sources to all under proper conditions. It is o
viously not right to permit those nations whioh
possess the undeveloped matural resources of the
world to monopolize them. Yet Great Britain,
France, the United States, the U.S.S.R., and other,
although they loudly urge world peace, have not de-
clared their conditions to open peacefully their
vast natural resources. This attitude makes one
think that their peace coctrine was nothing but a
selfish imposition. From the standpoint of her
Kodo, Japan cannot overlook this attitude."

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
Travel route of
Istanbul.
Diplomatie visa report.
Japenese resstion to meriean reced
Soviet Russis.
First quarterly examination of Mr. Coopes
Towmsend Harris Memorial.
6os
Budget agresment.
11;
Address made by the Ambassador.
605
11,
606
Recognition of Soviet Russia by the U. B.
607
• 11,
Monthly political report for November.
608
 12,
Political problems in the Far East - Japanese
Aotivities.
609
Resignation of Mr. Matsuoka fmm the
Seiyukai Party.
610
" 14,
Russo-Japanese relations.
611
" 15,
The Army's solicitude for the welfare of
the Japanese farmers.
612
"15,
Diplomatic visa report.
613
Laying of keel of U.S.S. SHARK.
614
" 15,
"PORPOISE.
615
15,
Transmitting copy of "Comments on John
Bassett Moore's Discussion".
616
" 15,
Proposed Japanese retaliation against
commercial disorimination.
617
16,
Address made by the Ambassador.
618
Allotments for contingent expenses.
819
Article on Yamaza Enjiro by the Foreign Minister.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.89)
comventiom previding
of
27,
O11 situation in Jama 
Claíms of merigen citiseme ari
Sine-Japanese dias
Diplematio viza report.
Mareotiom found on beard the
MADISON.
28,
Commanims in Japan.
629
28,
Delay in receipt of Depertment's tele
concerning closing of Government efrices
December 25 & 50.
5028,
Annual examination of Mr. Schuler.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 7, 1934.
HFP:.
JSJT
20：
Most of the important items contained in
Takyo's monthly report for January 1934
(despatch No. 664 of February 6, 1934) have
been reported to the Department in special
despatches, but I think you will be interested
to read the sections noted below, some of
which amplify previous reports.
RELATIONS  I TH THE UNITED STATES.
The section on preparations for the
forthcoming naval conference is a summary of
a previous despatch. but I suggest that you
read this section as a "refresher".
The arrest of some Japanese in New
Jersey for taking photographs has apparently
been widely noticea in Japan (see paragraph
3, page 7).
The Foreign Cffice has issued a state-
ment with re ard to the importation of
American cotton into Japan, which should be
read. One of the striking features of the
recent

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
recent increase in the Japanese cotton
industry has been an extraordinary improve-
ment in the capacity of the Japanese to
produce fine count yarns and tissues. The
Improvement in tie quality of Japanese cotton
products, as pointed out in the statement,
has been accompanied by an increased demand
far.American cotton.
A short time ago a telegram was received
from Tokyo to the effect that a bill had been
presented to the Diet authorizing the Govern-
ment to restrict the importation and con-
sumption of foreign wheat sold under a
bounty system. The section headed "Exporta-
tions of American Wheat Alarm Japanese Govern-
ment" (page 10) supplies useful background
material.
RELATICNS  ITH CHINA.
The section on the above subject,
beginning on page 15, is practically all new
material and contains some information of
interest. The Japanese press is supposed to
be delighted over the suppression of the
Fukien revolt; the Japanese Government has
informed anking that it would oppose the
return to power of hang Hsueh-liang; and the
Japanese Military Attaché in hina is reported
to have had discussions with Chiang Kai-shek.
RLATIONS

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
RELATIONS WITH RUSSIA.
A recent press despatch from Tokyo
reports that the negotiations regarding the
sale of the C.E.R. have been resumed: for
that reason the section on relations with
Russia, beginning on page 17, should be read.
Points to be particularly noted in this
section are: the advocacy by gertain Japanese
papers of the conclusion of a non-aggression
pact; Hirota is making efforts to restore
friendly relations with the Soviet Union; and
Poland is upbraided for having concluded a
"secret alliance" with Russia.
In connection with the last point, it
is particularly interesting to note that the
President of Poland is reported to be
planning a trip to Japan. where his son is
Minister, and to anchuria.
NETHERLANDS.
It is to be noted that the proposed
conference to discuss trade relations with the
letherlands is expected to take place in
March (see page 21).
ABYSSINIA.
There is a reference on page 23 to a
report

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
report that a bride has been found for the
so-called abyssinian prince.
INTARNAL POLITICAL SITUATION.
I believe vou will find of interest the
paragraph of the discussion, beginning on
page 24, of domestic political affairs.
There is quite an interesting account
on pages 26 and 27 of the attacks by the
political parties on the military element,
but it will not ba of interest to those who
have read a lon? despatch on the same subject
recentl: circulated in the Division.
17/201

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.89)
LEGAL ADVISER
APR N6 1934
EMBASSY OF THE
Tokyo, February 6, 193a0
9-1299.20,
9
No. 664.
Subject:
Monthly Report on Conditions -in
During the
1822422,30
APR 2 3 193
ESPERN AFAIRS
994.00P11
Divigion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 26 1934
23NE
retwy
APR 21 1934
Grai
0
LUBA.
The Honorable
COP) SENT T
The Seer tary of It te,
OIANDMI
w:thinston.
Sir:
vith refer nee to tho Lep rtm nt's  rtruction No. 93
1/ of July , e 6, I hoy the honor to tr nomit herewit the
Fubecey's m nthly re ort on concitions in J nan for the
mont
199
of J ur, 14.
Resoectfully yours,
Enclosure
Re ort No. 88
Copy to Legation, Peining.
Joseph C. Grew.
 Consul: te General ,Shanghai
" Consul:te Gener: 1, Mukden.
" Consul te General, Harbin.
11
" Consulete, Dairen.
In Triplicate to the Department
800-Japan.
Recdrm
SVV: r

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
1934
DURING THE MONTH OF JANUARY,

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
(a) Preparations for theB
Naval Cohfeneque
(b) Gestures of Friendship.
(e) War Ta1k
(d) Dr. Hornbeok's Speech of
Jamuary 18th
(e) Japanese Importation of American
Cotton encouraged by Foreign Offioe
9,10
statement.
(f) Exportations of American Wheat Alarm
Japanese Government.
11. POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) "Manchukuo" will be made an Empire. 13,14
(b) Recognition of "Manchukuo" by
14,16
Western Nations
(c) The Reorganization of the South
15
Manchuria Railway
15,16,17
(d) Relations with China.
17,18;19
-(e) Relations with Soviet Russia
19,20,21
(f) Relations with British India.
(g) Visit of Australian Foreign
21,
Minister to Japan.
(h) Trade Conference with the Nether-
21,
lands
(i) Mussolini's Article in Hearst
21,22
Papers Causes Stir in Japan.
(j) Brazilian iedical Students Visit
22
Japan.
(k) J: panese Trade Insoectors will be
22,23
sent to Central America.
(1) Jananese Bride Selected for,
23,
bthiopian Prince.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
(Index dBu
I. INTHNAL POLITICAL AFTAIRO!
(a) The Political Partims Rejeot Proposala
for their Abolishment or their Uaibh
(b). Political Parties Attack the Misitary
During the Diet Sesmon
(c) General Araki 1s Succeeded as War
Minister by General Hayashi
(d) The Slayer of Premier Kei Hara Freed.
1v.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
(a) The Diet Opens.
32.
(b) Legislation......
39,
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
before the Diet.
33
(b)
Devaluation of the Dollar has not so far
affected the Yen.
33,34,85
V1. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Japan's Foreign Trade Figures
36,
(b)
Published 1933 Comunercial Statistics.
36,37,
(c)
The Plight of the Jananese Farmers.
37,38
(d)
The Proposcd Steel aerger is Attac ed.
38,39
(e)
Develooments in t e Jaoanese Oil Question.. 39,
(f)
Figures Concerning Jo an-"Monchukuo" Trade..39,40.
Motor Cors in Jroan.
40.
VII. ACTIVTTILS OF AMORICAN CO LCTAL TRTERFSTS:
Nil.
VIIL. ACTIVITT S OF FOREIGN COMTnCIAL IMT R STS:
(a) French Commo cial Activity in"Manchukuo"... 41
IX. LABOR AND  UHATION:
Nil.
x.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.91)
A Monument In Honc
Starr

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
the pofht of rlew of the
t teetare of American-Japanese rmlatitin
the preparations for the next naval du
Duning recent months the Japanese nevy
dusting the army from its prominent positi
public eye. Furthermore, in budgetary mppropriath
navy abpears to be "catching up" to the army in
1tself prepared for the "crisis of 1935-36" and, 
as the public can perceive, the United States Nay is
always the yardstick by which the Japanese measuretheir
avy
Every effort is being made to bring the navy to.
full treaty strength by 1936. All the officers who aup
ported the civilian government in the bitter fight over
the ratification of the London Treaty in 1930 have been
forced to resign or huve been luced in unimportant~posts
The officers who now heid the navy are all intense nation-
alists.
Their osition i: strengthened by the recent
Change in the Navy General Staff regulations which
made the Chief of the Cenaral Staff solely responsi-
ple or determining the size of the fleet, thereby
further removing the navy om civilian control. There
is every inoication that the Jananese Navy intends to have
its own way at the next conference. Failing in this it
is orenarin to reject all limitation on naval construction.
There
* Embe ssy's despatch No. 650 of January 22, 1934.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
ozitiosonthomiita
are no longer afraid to spenk out
crisis should arise there is no doubt that the
ople would follow their military end naval is
A committee of Army, Navy, and Foreign Offtrort
has just been formed to prepare policies for the nawat
loonference. A smaller committee which has apparenth
meeting for some months has let it be knom through the
press that"under no circumstances will Japan participate
in any arms parley dealing with agenda prearranged by
Powers without Japan's having been at the pourparlers
and "that under no circumstances whatsoever must poli-
tical questions be brought up for discussion". Several
newspapers have also sated that Japan will never agree
to the inclusion of Soviet Russia in the conference:
The Japanese Navy of course wants equality in naval
ratios, if there is going to be any limitation. No
comments have been seen or heard on the question of
increased fortifications in America's possessions in the
Far East. One paper ( the HOrKAI TIMES) has stated that
Japan would ugree to the continuance of the present ratio
if the United Stutes would withdraw entirely from
oriental policies. There have lso been rumors that
Japan was preparing to offer to continue the status quo
in naval limitations if the United States would recognize
"Munchukuo". Stotements that J&pan should have a smaller
navy

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
bottom of the ttip
like the Exclusion Clause m th
as considered to be an insult to the peopl
eaven has appointed guardians of the pe
at mast. These soecalled slights and oth
Tatual or alleged, of the United States in She
g. assistance to China in the form of. loanh 
stablishments of American airlines in China- are
lioved by the Japanese to be derogatory to their
tige in Asia, and to be handicaps to the maintenapo
of Japan's position- which she considers rightful-
the principal Power in the Far East.
(b) Gestures of Friendship.
During January there were several incidents illus-
71.94
trating the desire of resoonsible Japanese to cultivate
the most friendly r lations with the United States.  On
the other hand there were also incidents which tend to
inflane the public opinion of one country against the
other.
The first ana foremost of the friendly expressions
was in the speech of the Foreign Minister before the Diet
on Junuery :3. he said:
" It may be definitely stated that between Japan
no the United States of America there exists no
question that is intrinsically difficult of
solution. Far from having any thought of picking
a cuarrel with America, Japan fervently desires
American friendship. At the same time. I am
confident that the United States will not fail
to aonraise correctly Japan's position in East
Asia

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
ove dapan'a relatGna
ye remarks and other references
In his speech reveal this dealre, especrall
ta connection with his remarke gonoerming
Mach publicity hes been diven
weriga of Mr. Otohike MatsukataSbrothe
Matsukata, the importer of Soviet ofi.
at Harvard at the same time as President RoosevelvIn
spite of his assertions that he in no way repressnts the
Foreign Office, the Japanese newspapers haye tried te at
tribute official importance to Mr. Matsukata!s visitHo
has stated that he decided to go after conferring with.
Count Kentaro Kaneko, Privy Councillor, well Imom in th
United States. He also said that he would like to talr
with the President informally.*
Upon the receipt of the news that the American Pro
dent was planning a trip to the Hawalian Islands in tha
near future, groups of peonle in Japan began to spoculate
upon the poss bility of his coming to Japan. Evidence
of the interest in this matter was the resolution passed
unanimously by the Pan-Pacific Union of Tokyo that Presidant
Rooseve1t
* Embassy's despatch No. 645 of January 18, 1934.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
there hae recent1y
Japam desoribing approaching
bighay inflammatory nature and responsibls
that they seriously endanger Japan's aalatd
countxiee. American-Japanese relatipus arenoapso
mfreated as the mubject of the booke 14 moat ofto
war between these two countries. Representatives
the Foreign Office, the War, Navy and Home Ministrisa
have recently been trying to find some means of pro
hibiting the publication of such books*, but there ar
of course influential elements among the armed servic
which consider the books excellent propaganda for a bister
army and a bigger navy.
The Japanese press gave considerable publicityto
the statement of Admiral Standley, in answer to statements
attributed to Vice-Admiral Nubumasa Suetsugu, Coimander-
1n-Chief of Janan's Combined Fleet. The Japanese Admiral's
statement appeared in the GENDAI, a popular monthly maga-
zine. It was in the form of an interview which he gave to
a member of the staff of the magazine. Upon being gues-
tioned later s to whether the published statements re-
present his real opinions, the Admiral did not deny them.
Some of the statements which caused surprise were as
follows:
* Embassy's telegram No. 18, Jinuary 25-1 p.m.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
Ay pretending failure in
9thg neigabprhood.
Epresumably Mr. Harold Broml
Plight and after a time returm
bergh came with his wife and mi
for a week. He fount the woat
and made only short hops.There
they were doing.....What sre the Amer
Are they not making elaberate suryey
Aleutian Islands by airplanes?n
"If the white people consider themrel
to the Japanese they must be fought..
American.trade war will result Tnan inevita
in the China market."
Several Japanese newspapers of January 28 published
Nippon Dempo despatch from London stating thet tha Daily
Express had said that the British Far Eastern Naval Confer
at Sing pore would discuss a proposal as to whether British
and French possessions in the South Pacific should be o
fered to the United States for use for military purposes
According to the report, the offer would be made to satisry
the debts of those countries to the United States. It was
stated that the United States had already sounded the at
titude of England and Fr nce in order to obtain faciliti
for the est.blishment of a naval base and aerdrome in
these islands for commercial operations in time of peace
and for military purposes in war time
Another interesting item in the Japanese press during
the month was that Jupan is watching the construction of tw
naval beses on the west coast of Mexico because of the-fear
that

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
that Dack of the shrutt to,
and pèrhapa even the possibilaty
pt the people of the world may go along'sik
Witoh sheks territorial edpansion at tha
ngighbors and,is unwilling to reduce,ar
ovedybody elae agrees to nonaggressiensexd to
duction. Several Japanese papers did not hd
assume that the remark was directed at Japin
The Japanese press has commented extansively
arrest at Kearny, New Jersey, of a party of Janahmee whe
were alleged to have taken photographs in  prohibit
zone. There have also been comments on the suspicions
aroused in San Francisco by the arrival of a Japanase ar
vessel just as the airplane flight to Hawail ms starting
Apparently forgetful of the various spy incidents in Japan
several Japanese papers have charged Americans with boing
excessively suspicious and easily frightened by unimportant
incidents.
(d) Dr. Hornbeck's S eech of January 18th.*
The speech of Dr. Hornbeck on January 18 caused
considerable flurry in Tokyo. Due apparently to an error on
the
* Embassy's telegrams Nos. 12,January 22-11 a.m.16,
January 24-11 a.m.; 17, January 25- 11 a.m.; 19,
January 26- 3 p.m.; Despatoh No. 658 of January 27

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
a1st111
bond was that the United Statam will
good neighbor of the Far Eastern goun
Jecting President Roosevelt's concept of interma
Yelations now in force in Latin America 1nto the Ped
The first phrase was interpreted by the Japanese to
dhs continuance of the so-called Stimson Doctnine
they had hoped the present administration would eya
abandon. The second phrase raminded them of the Mont
Doctrine",- an expression often used by the Japaneme to
describe their own ambitions on the continent of Asi.
being as familiar with the present administration's pollcy
toward Latin America as with the interpretation giyen the
Monroe Doctrine by some revious administrations, the Jap
nose considered Dr. Hornbeck's statements, as reported in
the local press, to mean that Amerioan "interference" in
Far Eastern afrairs would soon be augmented.
The apparent public reiteration of the Stimson Doctrine
by the Chief of the Fur Eastern Division of the Department
of State gave the Japanese press an opportunity to criticize
the United States end its policy of not recognizing" Manchuiua?
The well-known arguments of "Manchukuo" having been created
by the will of its thirty million residents and the self-
defensive attitude of the Japanese military were aired by
the press again. Mr. Amau, the Foreign Office spokesman,
i s suen

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
ravives the argumeat or the
son Doctrine, and fupthey
to Raat Aste of Amerteala traditio
tomard the Latin American coumtm
ences 'convey an impression of wilfully
axistence of a Great Power bearing tha
bilitiee for the mmintenance of peaee in
It should not be forgotten that the mpin
exists in the Far East as much as does t
States on the continent of Americ
This stabeman't was made by a man mho has in the
adopted a friendly attitude toward the United Stat
It roveals very clearly the feelings of the Japanea
on any comparison between American policy in the eater
Hemisphere and that in the Far East.
On January 23, on the Department's instruction, the
Embassy made it known to the Foreign Office that Dr
Hornbeck had been incorrectly reported in Japan. On the 
24th the Spokesman informed the press correspondents and
the denial was prominently published in all the leading
Japanese newspapers. On the 25th the Foreign Minister
in reply to a cuestion in the Diet, stated that the speed
was not delivered in Mr. Hornbeck's official capacity
and that the version of the speech published in Japan
had been distorted.
EA
Japanese importation of American cotton
encouraged by Foreign Office statement
Apparently fearing that American cotton growers would
think that the mar et for their product would be curtafled
by Japan's agreement with India to purchase 1,500,000
bales of Indian raw cotton annually, the Japanese Forefn
Office

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
of the. Indian ootton in
rage,"Tos example, fon the
Mon amounts 0o 1,565,000
for the 1azt five years to 1,419,000
fignros differing but very slightly
qmuota of 1,500,000 bales. Therefore, the
by Japan of the Indian cotton to the ull
not in any subatantial manner affeot-the
American cotton.
Furthermore, the volume of consumption of 
notton in Japan is steadily expanding mnd t
seems to be persistent. This is easily und
as in consequence of the advance in the tmchi
the Japanese industry, her staple cotiton pied
products are gradually shifting from the cor
finér fabric for which the American cdtton 1s bet
suited as raw material than the Indian.It ther
anything that prevents the Japanese spinners from
more extensively the American cotton, 1t is ita co
high price. Price is, after all, the predominant ract
of consideration for the spinners in making their choic
of cotton, it following that if American cotton he
reasonably cheap, it can not only maintain the pre
market in Japan but also develop more export to thi
country. "
(f)
Exportations of American Wheat Alarm Jubanese
Government.
Contrary to the policy of encouraging the importation
of cotton from the United States, the Japanese Government
is considering putting more restrictions upon the importa-
tion of wheat from  broad and the exnortations from the
United States to the Far East are understood to be causing
special concern.
For two yeurs the Jananese Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry has been eneouraging Wheat production on a five-
year plan with the ultimate idea or making this country
self-sufficient. With a sharp rise in the price of imported
wheat, due to the fall in the yen, the Jananese production
was

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
prices bolow the American tmarkyt pyi
they wete no Lowae, than the worId pride,
node feared that too much wheat s being
the Far Eastern market. This alarm was inerea
it was reported that a large quantity of Amer
was being sold to Ohina as a result of the
Wheat and cotton loan. The Japanese feared that
Chinese would take  loss on this transeotion
the American wheat at prices below the morld price,
1t was alleged' they had done with cotton. This fear
eventually proved to be groundless but they continued
to consider the American wheat to be a potential menace
The fact that the sellers of the American wheat were
reported to receive from an American Government agoncy
the difference between the American domestic price and
the export price was believed by the Japanese to be grounds
for anplying the bounty clause of the Japanose tariff
to American wheat. This clause provides that additional
auties may be levied on articles benefitting from export
bounty in foreign countries. Upon representations from
the Embassy last November in which the Japanese Government
was assured that American wheat woulu not be sold abroad at
prices below the world market price, it was understood that
no action would be tuken.
However, the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry apparently wishes to be better armed with
authority

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
eal press reported that abi
besentation to the Diet, vestins the Mi
Agrigulture and Forestry with authority to rest
the use of foreign wheat by flour milis and
when such restriction is deemed necessary to
the Japanese domestic price. He would also. be
to increase the import tariff on wheat under th
carcumstances. No confirmation of such intention
the part of the Government could be obtained by
before the time of writing this report.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
ad in Tokyo that on Laren:1i the Cha
qhakuo", Mr. Pu Ti, wouid be eathroner
The efricial announcemant was preceded by ipapi
poper reports that the thirty million tnhabitapts
churia were unanimous in their desire to ferm
and was Followed by congratulatory statements h
Japanese. offioials.
Japanese officials feel that the establishtent
new Empire should convince the world that Japan hammp
tention of annexing Manchuria. However, it as understpody
that the enthronement will be accompanfed by a new treaty
between Japan and the new regime which will give extensi
powers to Janan with respect to "Manchukuo"s" foreign re-
1ations.
The Japanese also exnect that the change of government
will emphasize the separation of "Manchukuo" from the rest or
China. They point out that "Manchukuo" could never con
quer North China without the help of Japan and the latter
has no intention of aiding the new state to become involved
in Chinese politics. They point out that Chang Hsueh Liang
was ousted because he had become mixed up in Chinese politic
and that the Jananese have no intention of permitting his
successor to follow his policies.* Whatever may be the
intentions of the Japanese regarding the ultimate destina
tion of "Manchukuo", it aopears that for the present there
w111
Embassy's despatch No. 640 of January 11, 1984.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
nition of the regime there by
any mas orderad her Gommoreial
proceed to Manchuria to s tudy economrc
It has boen pointed out that sinoe the athoun
TGermany's withdrawal from the League she does
obligated to maintain her former attitude t
recognition of the new state. It is genpeslly
that favorable action by Gormany depends largely
she can gain immediately in the form of economro ad
vantages. Her principal rival appears to be a Fehch
group, whose activities are described in another part
of this report.
It is understood that Belgium also is considering
recognition at the time of the proclamation of the Empir
The Japanese newspapers gave some publicity to.a report
rom Peiping that the British Legation in that city had
recommended that the British Consulate General in Mukden
be moved to Changchun and that the British consiular ervie
In Menchuria be placed under the jurisdiction of the British
Embassy in Tokyo. The Ju anese press hailed this s a Tore-
runner
* Embassy's telegram No. 13, January 22, 4 p.m.
**
No. 8, January 9, noon:

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
maanTokyoq
beet appointed Conaul Genera1 at
Bdtler reeently stated that he had
of she projeet of removing the Consulake Ga
Mukden to Changchun end that he expeeted to-
in the former oity.
(c) The Reorganization of the Sosth Hancht
The plans which were being formulated in
oiroles several months ago for the reorganizeti
South Manchuria Railway have appmrently been a
for the present. Not only the Overseas Minister
department now supervises the railway, but also the Prei
announced in the Diet on January 29 that they opposed
the plan. It is therefore obvious that the Government
will not sponsor any bill in the present Diet and
the question is not likely to be raised in the near: futpr
(d) Relations with China.
During the month of January there were two happening
753
in China which were of interest to the Japanese. One of
them- the defeat of the revolutionists in Fukien- was
looked uoon with favor and the other- the return of Chang
Hsueh-Liang- was regarued with concern. The Japanes
papers hailed the defeat of the Fukien rebels as a boost
for General Chieng-Kai-shek. The general opfnion expressed
was that it would strengthen him nd weaken the "Southwestern
factibn

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
oCanton.
Dr. 8. Mashto, a riter for the
mmed the belier that Chiang Ra
venteg by the Fakien revolt from carryins
Communist oampaign and that this was a costly
All the Japanese commentators, including Dr.
that the imaediate future of Chinese polities deponda
on the course taken by Chang Hsueh-liang, who recently
returned from Italy bringing with him a supply or aero
planesland other war equipment.
However, the Japanese are not so much worried over
the immediate effect of the Young Marshal's return upon
Chinese domestic politics as over its ultimate effect
upon that country's relations with Jaoan. In spite of th
statement which he issued upon arrival in Shanghai that
he woulu never return to North China the Japanese are very
suspicious of his intentions. Their worries are not lessened
by the renorts that the Young Marshal end Mr. T.V. Soong
heve been conferring. The Tokyo YOxIURI of Junuary 1O stated
that Foreign inister Hirota had instructed the Japanese
Minister to China to inform the tnking Government that Japan
is nefinit ly on oseu to the r turn to power of Chang Hsueh-
Liang. Accor ing to the r port the instruction placed the
blame for the Manchurian Incident upon the Young Marshal
and suid thut his r trlto North China would aggravate the
relations betven the two countries. It stated that Japan
would hold the N. nking Government responsible for whatever
should happen i" he roturns.
In

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
epeponsibilities for the maintenanda of
shat the Japanese Government hoped thet, Chi
Join with Japan in contributing toward the peac
development of this part of the globe but thlt
fortunately the actual situation of presen dey
belies all such hopes". He said that  no oonordbe
evidence has come to our attention to confirm thor
of the report" that China has decided to take
toward the rectification of Sino-Japanese relatfonss
He exoressed gratification that North Chine Is now
comparatively quiet but was concerned over the
activities of the communists in China.
The Japanese press g ve considerable publicity
to the visit of the Jupanese Military Attach in China
to General Chi ng Kai-shek on January 30. It was
reported that they discusseu Sino-Japanese relations;
communis, the future of Chang Hsueh-liang, et cetera
EE
(e) Relations with Soviet Russia.*
hu
Efforts to reach un amicable solution of the issues at
stake between Jupan and the .S.S.R. seem to be crystalii
861.77Ch
Zing umcer the lead rship of the Japanese Foreign Minister.
761.941
H r cognizes that the first step to a more important
ind  more cencral settlement is to dispose of the issue
of the Chinese Eastern Railway. The economic value of
the
Emb  sy's desp tohes No. S44 of January 11 and No: t65
of Junuary :6.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
the tailmay is rapidly becomdna negligi
the completion of competing linemand
adoptéd by "Manchukuo" officials..Mr. Hiro
to bring about a resumption of the confereic
sale of the railway. Conciliatory conversatio
the Soviet Ambassador h ve been helpful,butdi
over the deportation or reinstatement of Soviet
railway officials detained by "Manchukuo" is proving
blesome as are the outbursts of Soviet officials in Mosa
against Japan. If negotiutions are resumed the question
EE
of price will be difficult although some believe that the
Soviets will this time be prepered to sell at whatever
the road will bring. The Japanese Foreign Minister in
using his good offices is orobably actuated not only by
the desire for settlement of the disnute but also by the
noliticel consideration of de jure recognition of "Manchukuo"
by the Soviets.
The general situation between Japan and the Soviets
did not ch nge  in the month derpite public uneasiness
caused in  rt by the outs oken referetes of prominent
states en broo to te possibility of a Soviet-Japanese
ar. J ere
rs nave mdvocated editoriully a
non-srosston
ct,
,n. the Tovo AsAHI sees the need for
To rsimhten consicoration of Soviet relations. The Jroa-
nese Foret n i irtortr r  pnce to Soviet relations
in his tormal poores: to the piet was mod rate in tone
 no in ch rp contrast to the rovocative statements
of Soviet lo rs. u. Hir ta stated that the "proper
ad justment"

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
agjustmont of Sovist-sManchukuo-Japamese
was of peramount importance fer the pranquilityof
Asta
It is anparent that the Japanese Minister
Foreign Affairs is making genuine, able efforts, se
without interference from the military, for restoratith
friendly relations with the Soviet Union.
It is reported thet Soviet Russia continues to striv
for maximum orep redness in the areas contiguous to Man
chukuo".
The KoKumIN of January 15 reported that " a secret
alliance concluded between Soviet Russia and Poland for
mutual defense is being regretted by the Japanese Government
as having eucouraged the dvance of the Soviets in the East
The KOKUIN expressed regret that Poland has "betrayed"
Jaoan in view of the hup y relations existing heretofore
between the two countries. However, no confirmation of
this renort has been obte ined.
(f) Relations with British India.
The greement re: ched at Delhi on January 5 wás.
le med w't ief by the Jupnese Government officials
645.94
nd also by the ublic, other than the textile manufacturers.
The negotiations had been going on for a long time and it
had seemed on s verul ocensions that agreement between the
Indiun uno Juomese colegetions ould be imoossible.
The  greement rovided for Lowering the Indian tariff rates
on Japanese t xt Les rom 75% to 50% ad v: 1orem and for a
be sic yerly cuota r 325, ,ooo yards of cotton textiles
to be

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
ntxymtoIoaia
agreed to purchase a besic qupte of
or Indian cotton and to cali off the boyeott
year by the Japanese spinners iassooiatiois
mum permitted for each year 1s 400,000,000 q
Japanese textiles in réturn for the purchase: dr i
bales of Indian cotton. Further, the Indian Gover
agreed to accord most-favored nation treatment to
nese textile imports. The agreement took effect
January 8 by an exchange of statements, the formal mtmat
to be made later in London. The Japanese textile manu-
facturers believe that the Government conceded too much
but the latter is convinced that some sort of agreement
was necessary if economic warfare is to be avoided and
that this was the best agreement obtainable.*
Although the cuestion of cotton was apparently settled
with regard to India, the Juna ese sundry goods exporters
are writhing under the recently imoosed high tariffs of the
Indian Government. They feel that their Government placed
too much emphasis on the cotton inuustry during the recent
negotiations, to their detriment. The claim that India
has rnised or hibitive uuties on their products and that
they are receivinp canceliations from India every day.
It is understoou th t the J p nese Government has instructed
its uclegation, which is still in India, to make a protest
over these uuties.
Incidentally, it is revorted in the press that the
Japanese Foreign frice is interested in the exchange of
diplomatic
* Emb ssy's desnatch No. 655 of Jonuary 26, 1934.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
with India in regard to trade
Visit of Australian Foreign Mistster
It is reported that in the month of Aug
pa visited by the Foreign Minister of Australia,
to discuss trade matters nd also to investigate the po
hility of establishing a diplomatic mission in Tokyo
of the staff of the British Embassy in Tokyo have stated to
mambers of the staff of this Embassy that they do not belf
it likely that Australia will establish a diplomatic mimsio
here although a Trade Commissioner might be assigned to Jap
(h) Trade Conference with the Netherlands.
The threat of the Government in the Dutch East Indies
1s6.9
to place a cuota on the importation of Japanese products
has added to the worries of the Jananese exporters. According
to press renorts Japan exnorted 100 million yen worth of
goods to the Dutch East Indies during 1932 and imported
only 40 million. The textile manufacturers are sending
delegates to Hollund to cooperate with the Japanese diplomatic
representatives in negotiating some kind of  greement. It is.
expected that the conference will be held in March. If the
Dutch wish to place un imoort quota on Japan's products it is
aifficult to see what inducement Japan can offer to prevent it
The p pers s eak of Janan's willingness to buy more from the
Indies but do not mention any specific articles.
(1)
Mussolini's Article in Hearst Bapers Causes Stir
in Japan.
Relations between Japan and Italy during January were
765.94
made conspicuous by an article written by Premier Mussolint
for

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
Hearat papers, in mhton,
ealls Japan a menade to the whit
The Japanese note that his remarks
are in direct contrast to those made during. whe
ap address in Rome on December 22. The latter
tremely friendly. The Japanese press attribute
reported change of heart to the visit of Mr. Litvinat
after he departed from Washington. It has also béen
in Japan that Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang obtained his dert
planes and other war materials in Italy and some conneot
1s seen between this fact and Mussolini's anti-Japanese
expressions.
(j) Brazilian Medical Students Visit Japan.
On January 2 a party of forty medical students
from the Sao Paulo Medical School arrived in Japan under the
leadership of Dr. Ernest de Souza Campos. They came direct
from Santos on an Osaka Shosen Kaisha liner.. They will
depart for home on February 19. Their leader stated that
they had come for the two-fold purpose of enhancing the
relati ns between Bruzil und Jaoan and to observe at first
hand the progress thnnt had been made in medical science in
Janan.
(k)
Japanese Trade Insoectors will be gent to Central
Amorica
According to press reoorts the Japanese Foreign Office
is senuing an insptction party to Centr 1 America in the near.
future for the purpose of increasing Japan's trade there.
It is the Government's plan to establish export and import
associations

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
ral and South America which
contro1
(1)
Japanese Bride Salected for Eahigui
Prince
As reported in the Monthly Report for June
Prince Riji Araya of Abyssinia, who visited Japan
two years ago, expressed a desire to have a Japanmde
and as a result of considerable publicity many Jantmes
irls applied for the honor. It has now been annound
that, several photographs of girls having been viewed
by the Prince, he has selected Miss Masako Kuroda daugh
of Viscount Hiroshi Kuroda. Furthermore, the Prince i
expected to visit Japan within a few months. According
to press reports a Christian wedding ceremony wi1l be held
in Japan and another in Abyssinia after the couple return
there.
Very little information aonears to be available in
responsible Government sources regarding this marriage,
and it is believed to be without political significance,
as far as Japan is concerneu. The father of the bride has
held no post of prominence.
The only other comection between J: pan and Abyssinia
is the concession which the latter is reported to have granted
to a J panese coneern for th growing of ooium poopy.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
INTERNAL POLITIOAL AFPAIRS.
a)
The Political Parties Reloct Proap
Abolishment or their Union.
The various proposals for abolishing or uniti
the Seiyukai and Minseito have received little enco
ment so far from the members of these two political
parties. As has been reported previously from this
bassy, Mr. Matsuoka resigned from.the Seiyukai to atar
campaign for the abolition of political parties trmabl
the nation to present a united front to the world during
the forthcoming "crisis". However, the response to hi
ampeal has been negligible. His closest friends and poli
tical associates did not follow him. His party let him
make his exit without the slightest protest. Dr. S. Washio
who Writes for the JAPAN ADVaRTISER, calls Mr. Matsuok
" a proohet in the wilderness" It is significant, how
ever, in view of the fact that Dr. Washio" is said to
reflect very often the ooinion of Count Makino, that he
endorses the rincipal views expressed by Mr. Matsuoka
and attributes the latter's lack of success so far to
the prosn rity of Jupan. He exoressed the opinion that
the sboliti n of the political parties will depend upon
whether the po ular iueu of the so-called "crisis" of
1935-36 begins to diss o: te on account of lack of pro-
vocation or deepen as the fatotul years approach. He
evidently thinks that the military have not yet suc-
ceeded in converting the public to their pet theory.
The movement to unite the Selyukai and the Minseito
appeurs to have been the attempt of some politicians to
compromise with those who advocated abolition of the
parties

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.94)
The-unidn
litary and their oivilla
the eontanuance in pomer of the "politiciahe"
which to-the military denotes everything that
 gowornment. The attempt to bring about more od
between the parties which was made by Baron Nakajim
ported in last month's Political Report from thi
ended in little more than a pious expression of intimi
to work for the good of the country. The Minseito Port
is in general quite satisfied with the present Cabinet. I
is willing to talk about party coalition solely as a thiat
to the military, whom it detests. The Seiyukai is divided
A large group of its younger meabers desire to cooperat
with the military as long as the latter do not establish a
fascist goverment. This group is constantly urging the
party leaders to o ose the S ito Government and to withdraw
Seiyukai members from the Cobinet. The moderate group of
the Seiyukai, shich its kent control, ir headed by Mr.
Jchiro  toyams, ini:t  of noucation. At  meeting pre-
ceding the present Diet session this group counseled modera
tion in criticizing the Government.
A fev d: ys rior i the Diet session there were separate
ctin the neitno the Seiyukai. Their leaders,
Leron w ka tsuki  ne Ir. Cusuxi, respectively, m de the
Pincipal soeeches.
They direussed the sume euestions and
exoressed virtu: L the stume views. They urged strengthening
of the trties :rd rej eted f: scism and party abolition.
Their vhole : im ano rec t be to revive public confidence
in the o: rties.
(b)

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
PotaticalPartias ao
atheDlean
Prior to the opening of the Diet fo
Tanuary R8, it was reported that ths Gavernmo
every e'ttempt possible to prevent the military
budgetary appropriations for the Army and Navy
too much criticized during the debates, it being
that the military might be incited toward taking
action. If this was the Government's desire it has p
greatly disapoointed. Without implying that the Gove
is in danger of defeat on any part of its program, it
must be stated that there has been no apparent hesitane
on the part of the Diet members in asking the War and
Navy Ministers the most embarrassing questions and
following them up with critical comients of a nature that
would nat heve been dared a year ago.
The first day of the session was devoted principally
to listening to the sneeches of the Premier, the Foreign
Minister, end the Minister of Finance. The barrage
started the next day. The first inter ellator, a Sei-
yukai le der, r ised the Government. The second, Mr
Tekushi Azuma,  nother Seiyukai, dwelt mostly on the
agricultural situation. He asked the Government what it
vus doing in the way of revising the kice Control Act.
He g ve en incition of vhat was coming by saying that
although the cou try w:: feced with : serious domestic
emergency the only thin, the Government had done was. to
increase the national defence hudget. Mr. Chuji Machida,
a former Vinister of Agriculture ano now a Minseito leader,
then

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
very strong Temarhs about thd
situation and termed the constant cry of for
a eause of disadvantageous unrest among the petple
Mr. Masazumi Ando, Seiyukai, questioned the nedes
e
Departments regarding the movement to separate the publ
from the military. The Navy Minister forced the Drot int
a secret session before he would reply, but the commomt
made afterwards by various members indicated that they did
not consider the Minister's reasons convincing.
On the 25th the Government was forced to renly to
questions in the Lower House concerning the ability of the
Army and Navy officers to preserve discipline within their
ranks, the Joint Army and Navy statement of December, and
the interference of Army and Navy men with politics in
violation of their own regulations. In the Unper House
Count Futaara dcnounced the publication of hooks and articles
fecklessly advocating netional defence and war.
On the : 6th wr. Shunya Uchid:, Seiyukai, ccused the
Premier of "decciving the  oole t the last Diet session by
telling them that military ex enditures would not fincrease,
While he wee aware of the N: vy's intentiou to formulate the
second re Le ishment rogram'. He then questioned the Navy
Minister s to no muen money the Navy reslly wanted and
fin: lly forccd the Di t into secret session in oroer to
make the avy Minister ive detailed reolies. Luter, a
inceito member m de a scathing attack on the interference
of n lit: ry men in oiities.
A11

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
All these inteapeltat
ry officers. On the eath, à grda
met at Yokosuka and applied strong crikipt
termed the "lukewarm and weak-kneed attf
Minister, Admiral Osumi. They were espacially
the attempt of the politicians to minimiz theeri
1935-86. They accused the Navy Minister of dvulgin
naval secrets to the Diet. After the meeting. th ofrfe
sent a telegram to Rear-Admiral Shozaburo Kobayashi t
Changchun, who is considered the de facto leader of th
vigorous navy dficer element, calling his attentiom t wm
was going on in the Diet.
On the 7th the Navy Minister, in reply to an inter
pellation, imolied that the Minseito Party was responsibr
for Japan's unfavorable ratio under the Rondon Naval Treaty
He stated that continued inouisitiveness on naval matters
would brin disclosures which would make matters"extremely
uncomfortable" for the Minseito leadership. However, this
annarently aic not hase the leaders as the Minister's
sneech wa: followed by more uestions on military policy and
especi: lly th cost of the manchurian venture.
The J ese ores nes been, on the whole, ltudatory
of the soirit shown by the members of the Diet. The
intoroel tione hove ooviously been a part of the polf-
tical p'rticst attempt to regain the support of the
nublic and they  near to have been partly successful.
However, it is too c: rly in the session to predict what
the cute me wi b in this resuect.
(c)

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
Genaral Arakt 1s Suoceeded as ar
General Havashi.*
Probably the most sensational newe condo
domestic affairs during the month of Janudy
resignation of the War Minister, General Araki Pneu
and its after-effects, from which he has been sufferin
since Janu ry 1 and from which he will not complotely roo
for several months, furnished the ostensible reason. It
quite possible that this was the real reason as he would ha
been unable to attend the Diet sessions and the Army would
therefore have been deprived of a spokesman in that body.
However, many rumors are current regarding other reasons
for his resignation. It is said that saner elements in the
Government have taken advantage of the illness to get id
of a man who has become a symbol of Japanese ilitary aggressi
ness and that there will now be a reorientation of policy.
There has been increasingly widesoread indignation at the size
of the military budget. Ar ki is renorte to be disliked by
the Emperor and in the C-binet Hirota has begun to over-
shadow him. In the Army it is reported that Araki's popu-
larity has been diminishing bec use of his tendency to
retain the older gener: 1s and thus retard the advance of the
younger officers. Whether or not General Araki's resignation
was brought ubout by others, as the above reports would
incicate, it is  t i. ust ccrt: in that the news caused many
Japanese officinls to bre: the a sign of relief. He had
reached the height of nooul:  ity nd it is possible that he
steoped out at the b st moment fron his on point of view.
General
* Emb psy's tolegram No. 1!, J nuary 3, 5 p.m.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
the new Wer Miniater ts'd
of troops who is noutral in army gult
neither to the Araki nor the Ugaki factions,
reported to be of silent disposition and to hawe
that army officers should refrain from politicm He
possibly not indulge in General Araki's inflammatory t
and writings. His appointment is considered by somo to
represent a liberal victory. On the other hand, it 
that he will likely retire many of. the older generals and
promote the younger officers. He is said to be self-will
impetuous,and capable of rapid decisions, as was evidenced
when he moved troops from Korea to Manchuria on his own
fosponsibility in September, l93l, without awaiting orders
from Tokyo. It issaid that he is not as likely to compromis
as was General Araki.
(a) A Third N-val Replenishment Program Suggested.
It is reported by the press that, during the course
of the recent interpellations in the Diet, it was pointed
994.34
out that the Japanese Navy had some construction plans
in additian to the first and second renlenishment programs,
whereupon the Navy Minister said that it related to vessels.
outside treaty stipulations. It was said in the press that
this third naval replenishment program was stimulated
by the big navy plans of a "certain country", meaning
presumebly the United States.
(e)

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.93)
(=)The 8layr of Br
In connection with the recent Bentend
of pblitioal crimas, it 1a of interest to nd
Nakaeka, who was seateneed to life imprisos
assassinating Premier Kei Hara in 1921, has just b
freed after serving 11 years and 3 months, He has bene
fitted by three commutations of sentence.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
Qm Jannary 23 after ite holaday
ment is reported in the press to be as
House of Peers
Members of the Imperial Family
16
Kenkyukai
110
Koseikai
67
Koyu Club
40
Kayokai
36
Dowakai
35
Dosekai
24
Independents
30
Vacancies
6
806
House of Representatives
Seiyukai
291
Minseito
120
Kokumin Domei
32
First Lobby Group
8
Vacancies
15
466
(b) Legialation.
During the first week of the Diet sessions no
legislation was accomolished. According to the press tho
Government is submitting many bills for action. The
most important is of course the budget for the fiscal.
year beginning April 1. Another imoortant bill is one
for reforming Diet elections :nd still another provides
for Government group life insurance for certain classes of
peonle. The latter is being bitterly opposed by the
commercial life insuronce companies.
V.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
GOVERNMENT VINANCE.
The Spesch of the Finande Winleter
the Diet.
On Jenuary 28 the Finanee Minister, Mx Ko
Takahashi, spoke before the Diet on financial affhirs
He declared that there had been a gradual improvement
in the economic condition of Japan and a consequent in-
crease in Government revenue. He pointed out, hower
that in spite of having curtalled the amounts asked by
all the Government departments the Government expendi-
tures had mounted. He attributed this to the exnenses
of the Monchurian affair, the increasing appropriations for
national defense, exchange losses, and emergency relief.
He expresseu the hone thet Government revenue would
within three o. rour yenrs reach the 1evel of 1928-29.
He stateu that Japan's export trade increased during
1933 by 32.6% and the import trade 32.3% as co pared with
the nrevious year. He seid that this was due to an increase
in the importation of raw materials una in the exportation
of manufactured rouucts nd wes therefore a sure indi-
c tion of the exotnsion of Japenese inoustry.
(b)
Devaluetion of the Dollar has not so far
uffected the Yen.
The devaluation of the uollar has not so far appre-
894.5151
ciably : lreeteu the Jao nese yen except to revive the dis-
cusrion of devaiuing it. Upon the receint of news of the
American deva luation Finunce minister T uhashi said:
"The

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.95)
mation, But if Agerica returns'td
tion in the gold dontentior the
gold embargo undar a rey par of
that possi bility, Japan must retaim am
the oan. I am having my Ministry peedar
of Japan's future gold policy. Very Jar
result will be framed into a bill for the
In order to secure stability of erchange
any measure 1s obviously ineffectiva unleas
on gold is removed......Japan's foraign trade
fortunately improved and so we shall only be l
upon to look fter our gold reserve within a 4ops
that would not interfere with our finand.
Japan must guard against in the interim is the
trectin of loans with foreign countries"
In reply to an interpellation in the Diet the Financ
Minister said that Japan has no ideu of devaluing the yen
in order to r ise prices of domestic goods artificinll
that the underlying idea is that the country wouid like
to perform the operation when the Anglo-American and other
exchange rates achieve  natural equilibrium.
It has been announced in the press that the Finance
Ministry has orefted a tentative plan for conserving
Janan's gold supply, which will be submitted to the present
session of the Liet for aoprovel. It is s follows:
1. The Covornment shali buy newly mined, gold,
commnencing with the n xt fiseal year, at the rate
of Yen 100,00,0o0 a year for the next thre
years.
The Government shell issue bonds to finance the
nurcheses.
The purchase price shall be based on the purchase
prices of mined gold in all countries and shall
toke into consideration the risk of fluctuation
of oricer in the future and the interest rat.
4.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
yen whali be made good with the tro
from the appreqiation of the valke
held in the Bank of Japan.
The Government shall establish speciat
for the purchase of the mined gold and the con
of all gold in its possession.
The market interprets this to mean that the Government
will pay equitable prices for the newly-mined gold proqued
in the Empire, instead of the present ridiculously 1o
quotations.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.91)
VIGENERAL ECÓNOMIC AWD FINANCIAL CONDITTONE
(e) Japan's Foreigm Trade Figures.
1935
January exports
Yen 107,395,000Yen
January 1mports
173,618,000
Excess of imports
66,223,000
(b) Published 1933 Commercial Statistics.
The following is a summary of the commercialrsta
tistics for the year 1933 which were published in the
English language newspapers of Jupan during the month
of January:
According to the Bank of J pan wholesale prices
dropped in Tokyo during the last three months of the
year. The whole ale price index number for Tokyo in
D: cember was 175.5 as compareu with 184.6 for December
193.
During the year the uemand for coal in Jupan reached.
33,847,000 m tr1c tons, an inerecse of 5,429,000 over 1932.
Of this mount 30,1i5,000 tons were min d in Japan proper.
The total value of securities in Japan on Jenu ry 1
vell exceeced Yon 53,141,J0u,000,  ccordins to a report
of the T kyo  tock mx  mge.
 osits h le y  nk nrocisted with the clearing
couree of a oen :t t vne of Deee ber  tounted to
71,
erese of Yen 1,74, over
the wonth  pore nd o e,par, o ov  the year before.
tounr outet m  t tr m of the y or  nounteu to
Yeu ,11,7,, F reeentin d c1nes of Yen 4,,000
From the sonta b
tne n b4,oh, 0 rom the year
b. ore.
Juont tot 1 ort  estton cloth, - gray,
ble ched,

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
2068,41z,000 fards, worth 1
nereasea 6f bsg4,000 yarde énd 1e
1ate. Exnorts to "Manchukion, Duteh Fat
tralia, Egypt ,Other African countries, and
showed marked increases. Expprts to China anw i
India decreased.
Japan's 1933 beer output amounted to 1 00 081
koku as compared to 766, 647 koku in 1982. Tme increa
is attributed to the abandonment of prohibition by
the United States.
Rayon textile exports amounted to 259,450,000 yard
worth Yen 77,366,000 in 1933 as compared to 214,585,000
yards, worth Yen 6,540,000 in 1952.
(c) The Plight of the Japanese Farmers.
Discontent continues in agrarian circles of Japan
ot only d the f rmers want relief but their creditors
also. The faruer hes three main worries,- the cost of
fertilizer, the rice o rice, nd the interest on his
debt. The return I in tn  le of his crop does not
compensate him for the artilizer tnd labor and his debt
increses.
Furthoruore, the int luence of the cities
hes ceused hic t mo ro of living to rise. His position
ir not hel pou b the faet that the J ponese Government
encourugen the growth of rice in Korea and is now en-
coureging it in " enenunto".
The F nanee inister has been unable to aoprove
lorge a roorintions for car relief because of the demand
of thn uerunse aervices.he Army gener lly considers itselr
close

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
to theAfarmers antthy keaderser
from some embarrassment beoaus oft
pared to those of the farmerd, They
in some way the farmers! support of she Army ma
alienated.
The farmers' plight is the subject of discnastor
In many Cabinet mectings and the Home Office 1s. tryi
droft relief plans without enough money to do it.
latest lans that a parently are being constdered have
with relieving the farmers of a part of their taxes.
It is reoorted in the press that the military and
naval authorities have decio ed to obtein about 40, 000
youths from the im overisheu country districts and give tho
employment in arsenals.
(u) The Pro osea Steel erger is Attacked
(See Comaerclal Attache's R nort for Week Ended
J. nu:ry 7, 1954)
Considerable crit cism of Government anthorities
has been forthcoming trom the oress : nu on the floor of
894.6511
the biet in con ecti m with the pro osnd merger of the
Goverent nd priv te steel and iron works into the
Japan Tron Manuf eturin Comany. Most of the critieism
hot to do wit the eva luation of the assets of the
com  nies nv lved. D ring the lust few weeks the
ori nal v u tlons  ve boen changed by the Government
without ny a  rert justi i cation. hat or the Government
Iron Works was inere sed o and that of five rivate
compunies was unned 90%. There also anpeured to be a
oos: ibility of se ndal in the oarticipation in the merger
of

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.95)
publác anaothe Diet members
Developments in theavanepy, o
There háve been no outstanding develo
tn the oii industry auring the month of Janu
trade is awaiting the introduction of the dove
bill into the Diet. Due principally o the conr
views of the various Government Departments it do
appear likely that any radical legislation 11 be
The bill will undoubtedly include a clause to force
importers of petroleum products to keep large quantlvie
in storage in Jiman. This will react to the benefit o
the large importers, such'as the Rising Sun and the
Standard Vacuum Oil Company. There will be other pro
visions to encourage the "production and refining" of oil
in Japan but this Lmoa sy is informed that the bill will
not deal witn the marketing of oil products.
(f) Figures Concerning Japan-"Manchukuo" Trade.
According to rigures published in the JAPAN TIMES of
January 2o, Japan's investments in "Menchukuo". amount to
Yen 2,056,866,000,  compared with Yen 465,015;000 for
Soviet usn1, Yen 39,590,000 for England, Yen 26,400,600
for the united  t tes, :na Yen 21,086,000 for France.
The sane newepuper is authority for the following
"Manchulno" exoort :nd import rigures:
Exports

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
Exports to Japan
Importa from Japan
Exports to U.S.A.
Imports from U.S.A
Total expopts to mll
countries
384,482,000
Total imports from all
192,991,000.
countries
(g) Motor Cars in Japan.
According to figures recently published. in
the press there were in the Japanese Empire, in
August 1933, 106,788 motor cars, of wh1ch 96,900
were in Japan Proper.
The Japanese Department of Commeree and Industry
is renorted to be making an effort to develop the motor
car industry in Japan. It estimates that during the
coming year 1,500 curs will be munufactured in Japan and 1t
hopes to be ble to increase the production in the nea
future.
VI1. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN CORCIAL INTERESTS
Nil.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
VI11. ACTAVITIES OM FOREIGN COMMEROTAL INH
(a) Eronoh Gommbrcial Activity in manch
Mr. Andre d'Ollivier, who was sent by cert
interests to investigate the market in Manchukuo
their products, succeeded in negotiating a contract o
the formation of a Franco-Jananese company to impot
French and Japanese products into "Manchukuo". A dirhot
of the South Manchuria Railway would be President of th
new company and mr. d'Ollivier the Vice President. The
company, whose capital would be only Yen 100,000, would
presumably be an agency of some kind that would merely
"arrange" transactions between firms in the countries con
cerneu. Actual signature of the contract has been held up
because Mr. d'Ollivier exceeded his authority, having boon
sent to "monchukuo" only to investigate conditions. Ho-
ever, the French Eubassy in Tokyo has a marently been af
fording him all the sunoort ossible for it to give him
and hones that the transaction will eventually be put
throueh.
*Embascy's despetch No. 649, January 12, 1934.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
N11.
MISCELLANEOUS:
(a) A Monument in Honor of Dr. Fredorig 
It is reported in the press that a mo
been started in Japan to erect a tomb at the base
Mt. Fuji in which to deposit the remains of Dr.
Starr, the American student of anthropology, who spnt
so much time in Japan and died here a few months age
(b) Astronomers to View Eclipse of Sun.
On January 15, according to press reports, 
Japanese coast guard vessel left Yokohama for the Carolina
Islands carrying  group of 33 Japanese and 2 American
astronomers to view the total eclipse of the sun on
February 14. The Americans are Dr. Joseph J. Johnson
of the Colifornia Institute of Technology and Dr. W.N.
Cohn of the University of C lifornia.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
Cipher tables.
Simple. leave taken by
Seventh quarterly ezaminatios or
Ambassader's Nes Year's mesage
OSAKA MATNICHI anA TONTO NICHI NION
Political report for Decumber.
10,
Repairs to mbessy building.
10,
Ratification by Japan of the Internat
Convention Concerning Telegraphic Ood
659
11,
Birth of the Imperial Prince.
640
11,
Manchukuo.
641
11,
Exclusion of Americans from real estate
auctions at Harbin.
642
12,
Franco-Japanese Association for the
Promotion of Investment in Manohmria.
643
n
12,
Simple leave for Mr. Allison.
644
11,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
645
n
13,
Visit of Mr. Otchiko Matsukata to the U. S.
646
16,
Japanese immigration to Brazil.
647
19,
Diplomatic visa report.
648
19,
Laying of Keel of U.S.S. MONAGHAN.
649
19,
n
n
QUINCY.
650
22,
The Japanese Navy and the Limitation Conferenee
of 1935.
651
22,
Competency of H. Mizuno to receive benefits
due his incompetent son.
652
23,
Claim of Captain Barstow.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.89)
Pol1t10al
Anglo-Japansse Trade
Farewall interview of Conmal
with Lt. General Eamashis
25,
Diplomatic viss report.
27,
Dr. Hornbeek's spesch.
Soviet-Japanese relations.
659
26,

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.94)
Re dates of ornival
8, 10 a.m. Fen arrival of pouckes.
12, 10 a.m. Arrival of Mr. Kaghee.
" 12, noon.
FORKIGN RELATIONS OF THE DHIT
13, noon.
Re home leave of Mr. Meville
16, 4 p.m.
Re dates of arrivel or Mr. Dickot
E't. Andrews.
19, 10 a.m. Ack. receipt of code tablos.
19, noon.
Recommen- etion of Belgen Ambas
his Govern ent recognise Manch
 20, 10 a.m. Departure of M2. Lyon.
" 20, 11 a.m. Use of Japanese deu xyards by foretsn
10
Exequatur for Consul Largden.
11
" 80, noon.
12
 22, 11 a.m. Dr. Hornbeok's speech.
Departure of German Commercial Stlgretary
13
" 22, 4 p.m.
to study economic conditions in Ma uruo,
14
" 83, 4 p.m.
Foreign Minister's speech before the Miet.
15
" 23, 5 p.m.
Resignation of War Minister Araki.
16
" 24, 11 a.m. Dr. Hornbeak's speech.
17
n 35, 11 a.m.
n
18
" 25, 1 pom.
Publication of inflammatory books and
articles presaging war.
19
" 26, 3 p.m.
Dr. Hornbeck's speech.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE UNDIN SFCRTARY
April 4, 1934.
APR 13 1934
DEPARIMENI OF SIAIL
Tokyo's political report for February
is excellent. It contains, of course, a
great deal of material already sent for-
ward by separate despatches, but the re-
port is a comprehensive and very readable
account of all events of interest or of
importanoe during the month under review.
The section on relations with the
United States "fills out" the despatches
already received. You will find reference
to Mr. Hirota's efforts to suppress in-
biliate public feeling in Japan, includ-
ing a review of a statement made by
Mr. Hirota to the effect that upon the
elimination of war talk "the two nations
can negotiate in a congenial and comfort-
able atmosphere to the end of resolving
all of the existing differences between
them."
It will be recalled that a despatch
from Warsaw transmitted a translation of
an article by Karl Radek, commenting on
the Japanese suggestion that the United
States and Japan might agree upon
respective

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
respective spheres of influence in the
Paoifio.
You will see noted on pages 3 and 4
a brief review of the discussion in the
Diet on this subject.
The paragraphs relating to the effect
of American withdrawal from the Philippines
contain much material of interest. While
the Japanese press feels that withdrawal
would tend to improve relations between
the United States and Japan, the Japanese
Navy apparently believes that the opposi-
tion of the American Army and Navy will
make the abandonment of military bases
in the Philippines difficult.
The review on pages 6, 7 and 8 of the
position of Japan with regard to naval
limitation indicates that Japan will not
continue to accept the existing naval ratios,
and that therefore the Foreign Office
favors the holding of separate compensa-
tions with the United States and Great
Britain with a view to the avoidance of
the deadlock which a conference would be
bound to produce.his is a particularly
important section and should be read in
full.
The secton on relations with Russia
(Pages 11 to 16) does not contain any new
material, but it can be recommended to
those

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3
those who wish to refresh their memory as
a useful narrative of recent developments
with regard to the fisheries question,
sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway, and
incidents arising on the Soviet-Manchurian
border.
On pages 17 and 18 there is a well
prepared summary of recent reports on the
activities of German and other European
officials in "Manchukuo". The weight of
the available information is that Germany
will pot extend recognition in the imme-
diate future, largely because of the ef-
fect of recognition upon German individuals
and interests in China proper.
It is suggested that you note the
paragraph beginning on page 20 on Japanese
trade comgersations with the Netherlands.
The Japanese are reported to be confident
that the consumers in the Dutch Last Indies
will effectively prevent the establish-
ment by the Government of measures
caloulated to restrict the importation of
Japanese goods. A recent despatch from
Java states that the Netherlands East
Indies Government has recently issued an
ordinance further restricting the im-
portation of cotton textiles and other
commodities principally originating in
Japan. The Consul, commenting on the
ordinance,

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ordinance, stated:
"The determination of the Nether-
land Indian Government to prevent
this domestic market from being
captured by Japanese goods is a
matter of political necessity, as
the natives have been inclined to
believe that the Government was
afraid to take any firm action
against the commerical and economic
penetration of such a powerful
nation as Japan."
The section beginning on page 21 on
the Pan Aaiatic mavement is a summary of
a recently received despatch, but it gives
in clear outline the interest of the
Japanese in this movement. No reports
have been received from other partts
of Asia indicating that much interest is
being shown, outside of Japan, in the idea.
I understand that there will be an
article in next Sunday's issue of the
Washington POST on the Ethiopian-Japanese
romance, and I therefore suggest that you
glance over the section on this subject
in the report (p. 25).
The section on internal political
affairs (pages 26 to 38) is a very good
review of the subject, but much of the
material

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-5-
material is obsolete. However, I think
you will find that pages 30 to 33 and 36
to 39 will repay reading. They indicate
that the Japanese Army has been persistently
and severely attacked in the Diet. The
new Minister of War "has made a good
public impression through following a
fairly middle course between agitating for
a bigger defense force appropriation and
trying to appease non-military supporters".
894.00R.R./75
FE:THD!FES

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, March 8, 1934.
No. 699.
SUBJECT:
Monthly Report on Concitions in Japan
During the Month of February, 1934.
Ast
S94.0 P11
EASTERN EURUPEAN AFFAIRS
Ex2
DEPARTHENT OPSTATE
reous
COPY SENT TO
894.00 P.R./75
C
O. N.I. AND M. I. D.
州
ATE
Cbeck
NOV 3 1935
Oof
Moscow
USA
N 
The Honorable
M1D after
SND
The Secretary of State,
ON1
Washington.
ascor
Sir:
Vith reference to the Department's instructiono.
33
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Report No. 89.
Josenh C. Grew
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
n
" Consulate General, Shanghai.
n
" Consulate General, Mukden.
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ANVISER
n
" Consulate General, Harbin.
11
" Consulate, Dairen.
YMAY 31 1935
In Triplicate to the Department.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
800-Japan.
MNH:g
...
JGP.
WTT,

=== Page 161 === (confidence 1.00)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY, 1934.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
Brota outlanae Jepan'a
scoutd
(s) Dr, Hornbeck's speech eaplatnad
(c)Neutral Zone in Pacific.
(d) United States Withdrawal from Philippin
(o) Change in American Policy toward "Manehu
kuo
(f) The Naval Base.
(g) Reports of American Air Bases in. Fukien
worry Japan
940
(h) Effect of New Unfted State Monetary Poldoy
Japan.
10
IL
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Soviet Russia.
11,12,13,1
15,16
(b) Cabinet Ministers Make Certain Statements
regarding Japan's Manchurian Policy
16
(c) Commercial Rivalry causes predictions
of early recognition of "Manchukuo" by
Western Nations
17,18
(a) Forthcoming enthronement of the "Manchukuo
Emperor" is now the principal Event in
Japanese-"Manchukuo" Relations.
18,19
(e) The Anglo-Japanese Trace Conference is
in apparent deadlock
19,20
(f) Japanese are optimistic about Trade Parley
with Dutch.
20,21
(g) Pan-Asiatic Movement.
21,22,23
(h) Inflammatory Publications.
23,24
(i) Disarmament; British Note on Plan for Ger-
many delivered.
24
(j) Japanese-Ethiopian Romances played up by
Japanese Press
24,25

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
and Navy Attacked and 
Diat
(e) Navy Minister's Platform fok 1085 C
(d) May 15 Civilian Conspiratora given beavy
sentences
(o) General Amnesty of February llth.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) The Budget- passed by the Lower House.
(b) Inflation.
40,41
(c) Japanese Finances unaffected bg Revaluation
of the Dollar
41
(a) Gold Purchase Bill.
42,43
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC ANE FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.
44,45
(b) Agrarian Relief.
45,46
(c) Oil Control Bill prepared for Diet.
46,47,48
(d) Industrial Production increased in 1933.
48
(e) Markets characterized by optimism.
48,49
(f) Speculated Buying of Silver.
49
VII. ACTIVITIES CF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
NIL
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
(a) French Progrees in "Manchukuo"
50,51,52
(b) Other Business Activity in "Manchukuo"
52
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
58
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Nil.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
al relations between the saitad B
have undoubtedly improved during-the:pea
d.the growing tension has definitely diminished
imarily to the sinoere efforts of Foreign Minist
drota to dissipate suspioion and misunderstapding
to promote more friendly international feeling. In an
nouncing the desire of his Government to cooperate with
the United States in clarifying national positions and
aims, and in suppressing "jingoism" and war talk, Mr.
Hirota has apparently succeeded in easing the feeling of
uneasiness felt by the public of both nations. Local
editorials as well as those reprinted in Japan of Ameri-
oan origin are of more conciliatory tone, and public
rumblings inimical to friendly relations have now been
greatly diminished.
The Foreign Minister recently outlined the policy of
the Japanese Government toward the United States, in reply
to a request for the peaceful solution of American-Japanese
issues made by Vice-Admiral Baron Toshiatsu Sakamoto during
the course of a Budget Committee meeting of the House of
Peers. Basing his remarks on the premise that it is essen-
tial that each nation should attain a better understanding
of the position of the other, with especial reference to
the Far East, and should face their problems with a feeling
of friendship, he declared that Japan has no desire to an-
tagonize the United States. He pointed out that through
the

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
fmation of all thoughts of strained
*ssion of all war talk, both fn th
pubiic utterances, the two nations can nasotiate
ial and comfertable atmosphere to the ond of
 all of the existing differences between then
the proper frame of mind, the Foreign Minister stated,
are no questions which can not be easily settled.
Mr. Hirota announced that he has sent Ambassador mit
to the United States for the purpose of learning more
about the American situation and to ascertain the opinion
of the President and Congressmen concerning relations mith
Japan. When he returns from America the Government will
discuss the situation with the military authorities in
an effort to formulate a plan of action. The Ambassador
will then return to Washington where he will attempt to
negotiate with the United States Government for concrete
results. In that manner Mr. Hirota hopes to smooth the
way toward the successful outcome of future armament dis-
cussions.
Mr. Takechiyo Matsuda, member of the House of Repre
sentatives, in a speech before the Pan Pacific Club in
Tokyo, touched on phases of American-Japanese relations.
He described his third tour of the United States in thirty
years, and spoke of the desire he found among Americans
to learn about Japanese culture, products, progress and
political ambitions. He heard little or no war talk, and
definitely scouts the idea that there is any possibility
of war between the two countries. He believes that the
second generation of American-born Japanese can accomplish
much

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
(b) Ir. Bornbock's
As a finale to the misenderstandlp
Jannary 1s speech Foraign Minister Hirotar raply
inserpellation in the Lower House af the Diet by
Minister of Communications. Seigo Nekano, reiterat
previous denial that the speech bad been deldver
ported here.* He stated that the American Ambassaaor
informed him that the alleged statements had not been
made as reported, and pointed out that Dr. Hornbeck hi
self had announced that he was speaking in a private
capacity an that his views did not represent those
the United States Government. Mr. Hirota expressed his
hope that the House clearly understood the ciroumstanees,
and implied that the incident was closed to his Govern-
ment's satisfaction.
(c) Neutral Zone in Pacific.
Baron Sakamoto, during his interpellation of the
Foreign Minister in the House of Peers on February 23
expressed his opinion that the United States and Japan
7194
should confine their naval activities to their own sides
of the Pacific, and that it might be possible to establish
a ncutral zone in mic-ocean as a means of preventing a
future conflict between the two nations. A local editor
observed that it might be very difficult to establish
such a neutral line owing to the fact that equal division
of the Pacific might place a number of American possessions
in the Japanese zone. Furthermore, Britain, France, China
and the Soviet all have interests 1n the Pacific that must be
considered.
Mr
*See Despateh No.671 of February 9,1934.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
nued by recalling that Mr. Wiilimm 
than once stated publiely that the Unttad 8t
hesitate to recognize the auromacy of the Jap
In the Western Pacific, and consequently, ir Jay
would recognize the supremacy of the American Navy in
 the Eastern Pacific and a neutral zone were created in
mid-Pacific, great progress might be made toward awoid
ing any future conflict.
(d) United States Withdrawal from Philfppines.
01
Considerable comment has of late appeared in the
Japanese press regarding the effect of granting the Philin-
pine Islands their independence. The rumor that President
Roosevelt intends attempting to shorten the time from ten
to four or five years brings much closer the day when
Japan must define its policy in relation to the Islands
The NICHI NICHI of February 26 reports that as the United
States is now in a position where it must grant the long
desired independence, it will not be a great while before
the strong army and naval bases will be withdrawn from the
Philippines to Hawaii, and thus American military influence
will be withdrawn from Asia. The local press and officials
agree that such an eventuality would greatly improve diplo-
matic relations between the two countries, and would doubt
less result in Japan guaranteeing Philippine independence.
However, the Foreign Office stated that Japan cannot be
sure

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
inas have attained their
Another editor points out that Amoriokn with
hot be a condern of practical polatics for
nothing will be done about it until independond
nted. Moreover, although Japan has reiterated
it is not interested in the Islands other than as
marolal market, at the same time withdrawal of the av
"base-and abandonment of the several fortificatione wil
make a considerable difference to military alighments ih
the Orient.  Japan's sense of security will of course be
strenthened through such proof that the United States
has no interest in further territorial acquisition, and
a Philippine Republic could not conceivably be regarded
as a menace to Japan.
The Japanese Navy Office seems to be of the opinion
that the United States Government will have a difficult
time relinquishing its military bases in the Philippines,
not only because of Japan, but also because of the proxi-
mity of French and British territory. In addition to that
it will be necessary to overcome the very stubborn resis-
tance of both the American Army and Navy supporters.
In the event President Roosevelt is able to override
all opposition, the HOCHI of February 25 interprets the
withdrawal that will then take place of American military
influence in the Far East as a recognition of a sort of
Asiatic Monroe Doctrine. The NICHI NICHI adds that as the
result of the afore-mentioned developments the probability

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
taited Bates
) Chanse in American Polley Tow
 The local press carried a report, origlmati
MEW Yonk TIMES and later denied, that the Dasted
intended to recognize the new Manehukcuo" goverpmont
the CHRONICLE of February 24 says that the report thats:
the American Government will assume a conoiliatory
tude on the "Manchukuo" and other issues arising with
Japan, has naturally been received with very great imterast
The American "volte face", as the CHRomICLE terms 1t, in
its policy toward "Manchukuo" is a definite surprise in
view of the recent reaffirmation by the Roosevelt adminis-
tration of the so-called .Stimson doctrine -- non-recogntion
of new states carved out by the sword of an aggressor nation.
However, as the American press mentioned, it does not fol-
low that "conciliatory attitude" may be construed to mean
eventaul recognition, and the editorial concluded that at
most the American announcement can only be regarded as a
reply to Mr. Hirota's foreign policy speech at the opening
of the Diet. It is believed that the Japanese Government
now realizes that at least for the present no change in
the attitude of the United States toward Manchukuo" is
to be expected.
(f) The Naval Race.
Foreign Minister Hirota admitted in the Diet that the
WE
question of naval ratios would undoubtedly be an issue
in 1935 and 1936, but hoped that he would be successful
in avoiding any breach in the friendly relations now
existing

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
ands Japan might teai dbiiged to make.
has announced its decisionto seek al
fatios as the measure for limitations to be
second Washington Conference, and the Mavy Miniwter,
miral Osumi, has stated that Japan cannot remaim satimi
with the 5:5:3 ratio now in force:
Actually it appears that the American Navy will
yardstick the Japanese Government prefers to uss, but is
cannot formulate any definite proposals until it is
of the extent of the American plans for naval enlargement
Representative Baron Sakamoto cited the report that the
United States Government would insist on the present ratio
at the next naval conference, and Japan's open disapproval
thereof is threatening to cause a deadlock.
In his attempt to prepare the world, and especially
the United States for abandonment of present ratios, Foreign
Minister Hirota stated in the Diet* that although Japan
had not yet formulated its policy for the next Washington
Conference, he doubted that it would be rational to limit
naval strength by ratios; he questioned whether a disarmament
agreement on a ratio basis would contribute to world peace.
The Japanese Navy Office gives further reasons for its
rejection of the present ratio formula. It believes that
all parties have engaged in a naval building race to bring
their complements fully up to the permitted limits, with the
result that international relations have been strained rather
than improved. Instead of actually disarming, nations have
really
* Embassy's telegram No. 21, February 1, 5 p.m.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
its budget in drder to
table of comparative strengths
shows that Japan has 81 per dent of the Unis
in ships under the age limit, and equal strangth in
ary vessels.
The Foreign Office is credited with the attitude
Japan will not alter its insistence on changing the
ratios at the next conference, and should, therefore,
gotiate separately with the United Stated and Great Britain
in order to avoid a deadlock that might result from the lat
ter nations adhering to the present ratios. Japan is, ther
fore, pleased that the idea of preliminary talks appeals to
the United States. It does not intend to propose a preliminary
conference in Tokyo, but would participate in either bilateral
conversations with the other two nations, or a tripartit
discussion called by either Americans or British. The in-
clusion of Manchurian problems in the preliminary talks is.
not favored.
Japan is quite naturally apprehensive of any incident
or development which may precipitate a serious race in
naval construction. Japanese experts have observed that
Japan would be left far behind, and as a result of greater
imparity with the United States and Great Britain, would
not be able to pursue unhindered its "program of maintain-
ing peace in the Far East". It is,therefore, difficult
to reconcile that view with the unalterable decision to
scrap the present ratios and in effect attempt to induce
or force the two other great naval powers to allow Japan
to approximate their own naval strengths.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
(g) Beports of American Air Basa
Based upon the information that An
aviation firms have recently delivered planesdr
kien Province of China and have assisted in
air routes to Canton, Shanghai and other places,
members have been badgering Government officials for far
ther information in an effort to prove that the United
States is violating the Washington Treaty. *Rumors were
circulated to the effect that the United States plans to
increase and improve the Chinese air force which might
provide an additional American base in case of emergency;
that many American aviators have come to China as instruct-
ors; that the United States contemplates creating a mono-
poly of air travel in China; that funds for the construo-
tion of two aerodromes in Fukien were obtained from R. F. C.
cotton-wheat loans; and that American naval officers fre-
quently inspect proposed air base sites. Japanese author1-
ties in Southern China believe that the aerodrome construc-
tion may be in contravention of the Fukien Province Non-
Concession Agre ment between Japan and China of 1898, and
the Foreign Office has instructed diplomatic and consular
officers in China to investigate and report on American
activities.
The Foreign Minister replied to his interpellators
that of course Japan would not remain inactive if it is
proved that the Washington Treaty has been violated. How-
ever, it is not believed that the Cabinet attaches any
particular significance to American commercial activities
in Fukien. The reports have doubtless been exaggerated
by
* See Despatch No. 682 of February 21, 1934.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
G
The reduction of the gold content ol
lir and the recently increased price of malxer
have created considerable interest in Japanese.
circles, but have not had the effect of bring
major changes either in the dollar-yen exghange
commodity prices and production costs in Japan
an immediate rise in the price of silver bullionandc
lators turned their attention from gold to silver with the
result of fairly heavy transactions in bar silver
yen exdhange fluctuates according to the strongth o wa
ness of dollar-sterling exchange, the revaluation of the
dollar has had no pepercussions in the local financial
market. Devaluation of the Yen to meet competition in forefg
trade is not expected, according to statements by the Finance
Minister, because it would not accomplish the desired resto-
ration of the Yen. That, he implied would be achieved ofly
through a return to the gold standard, which cannot. be
thought of without similar action by the other great finan-
cial nations.
MNH.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
in the field of Sovist-Japaneae res
olawsiried under tre following headings:
Annual auction of fishing gropnds
2. Chinese Eastern Railway Sale contro
3. Soviet-"Manchukuo" Border Question
1. Annual Auation of Fishing Greunds.
This question has been a perennial source of
versy. It was revived this year shortly before the
auction of fishing lots on February 20 by the suddons
arbitrary action of the Soviets who insisted that Japanes
bids should be calculated at the exchange rate of 75 en
per rouble in lieu of the 32.5 sen rate set by the Shidehara
Troyanovsky agreement concluded in 193l when the yen
gold parity. Japanese protests in Moscow and Vladivostok
were unavailing, the auction was held as scheduked, and all
Japanese bids were declared null and void. Subsequently
however, on February 23, the Foreign Office announced that,
as a result of conversations between the Foreign Minister and
the Soviet Ambassador, the Soviet Government had agreed to
reconsider its actions with regard to the yen-rouble rate
At the end of the month it appeared as though the question
would become the subject of protracted negotiations with the
Japanese endeavoring to establish the validity of the Febrmary
20 auction at the customary rate of exchange and the Soviet
preparing for a second auction after negotiations on the ex
change rate. The importance of this issue lies in the fact
that
*See Despatches 670, February 8, 690, February 22, 691,
February 23.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
meusable bre
to a growing beMer that-ordin
toctive in dealing with the Soviete. Tme
themeelves are at the meroy of the Jan
r some ywars past has stationed destroyers in
during the fishing season.
The Soviet side initiated this controveray with
conjectured, two ends in view, first to derive
from the fishing lots and second, to secure a bargmini
point which would be helpful in the concurrent negoti
for the release of the six Soviet employeesof the Chinese
Eastern Railway and for the resumption of the sale conferenc
2. Chinese Eastern Railway Sale Controversy.
After some months of impasse, negotiations between the
Foreign Minister and the Soviet Ambassador were successful
861.77c6
to the point that it was possible for the Foreign Office to
announce on February 23 that the Soviet Government had ex-
pressed its desire for a resumption of negotiations for the
sale of the railway and that it would compute the value of the
line in yen. Furthermore, terms for the release of the six
Soviet Railway employees held by "Manchukuo" were agreed upon.
It later developed that all six men were to return to Russia
and that their places werè to be filled by new appointees,
three to be selected by the Soviet side and three by the
"Manchukuo" side. It was reportcd from Harbin on February 24
that the six men had in fact been released.
While it would be premature to conclude that an early
sale
* See paragraph 2.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
to stimnlate Soviet desire to be rid of
such a fertile source Sor intérnational contzet
During the past month there have been the
ber, of minor irritations along the railroad, a
and other places; the campaign in Harbin to obtain
duction in freight rates finally elioited a promim fro
the General Manager that a conference with connecting Lin
would be held with that purpose in view; and the ame or
ficial is said to have filed a claim for 20,720,000 roub1
alleged to be overdue for the transportation of Japanes
troops.
It is particularly to be noted that the Foreign Minis-
ter's policy of dealing one by one with the concrete issue
between Japan and Soviet Russia has at last met with a mea-
sure of success, both in this question and that of the fish-
eries auction. It will further be noticed that Japan has,
in practice at least, abandoned the role of "mediator be-
tween "Manchukuo" and the Soviet Union for the sale of the
railroad and has assumed the lead in negotiations.
3. Soviet-"Manchukuo" Border Question.
During the last month reports have reached the Embassy
to the effect that approzimately 5,Oo0 White Russians are
in the pay of "Manchukuo", that many of these are stationed
along the border, and that on both sides there is real dan-
ger that the slightest overt act would lead to serious con-
sequences. Several minor incidents have occurred such as
the wounding of a Soviet Consular official in Heiho by an
insane Chinese and the reported wounding of a Japanese aviator
who, it is alleged by the Soviets, violated the frontier
near the confluence of the Amur and Sungari Rivers. The
Russians

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
tha 15th and 16th of the month,
stated to  member ef the. Embasay
trsops had fired on at least onerJapanese
stated that reports of Soviet planés flying over 
during the latter part of the month should be rdgarded
Japanese propaganda in reply to the Soviet protests
Soviet charges that Japanese planes had invaded sovie
territory. It is reported that these alleged flights
Korean territory will be made the subject of an official
protest to Moscow as will the wounding of the Japanese
aviator.
The continued preparations along the border are rece
ing the serious attention of the Japanese Government and
were the subject of interpellation in the Diet on January 
It is reported in the press that General Hayashi, Minister
of War, stated that the border troops of Japan and the Uss
were maintained for the object of defence but it could not
be said that they would not consider the possibility of ag-
gression from the other sIde. From the Foreign Office
emanated repeated assertions that the Foreign Minister was
sincerely desirous of entering into an agreement with Soviet
Russia to clear the border of all troops and fortifications.
If there has been any responsive note from the Soviet side
it has not been evident in Japan. Instead on February:20 a
Harbin despatch reported that some 400,000 troops of the
Soviet Far Eastern Army would participate in general manoeu-
vres about the middle of March and that the whole Russian
geneis1

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.97)
tx Gongreslm st1ll in
Stahin, Vorcahilov, Commissar of
Coeander of the Far Rastern Army, talkeed in
provocative terms of the Soviet defensive.prep
ageinst Japan. These statements were promine
roported in the Japanese presa and received wid
tontion.
Considering Soviet-Japanese relations as a:wolo
will be apparent that the progress made this month towa
adjusting the most acute points of friction betwmen the
countries has resulted from the determination of the Popel
Minister to settle Japan's international problems by diplo
matic memns. The Foreign Office no longer reflects the
blind inflexibility of Count Uchida's régime. Furthermore,
certain internal developments* such as the recession in the
popularity of the military, the replacment of the inflammatory
Araki by a simple soldier, General Hayashi, the aversion of
the prosperous middle classes to war, the pacific influence
of the high officials around the throne and of the Emperor
himself, the disquieting rapprochement between the United
States and the Soviet Union, and also the task of consoli-
dating "Manchukuo", have all strengthened such latent pacifio
tendencies as may exist in the country.  Yet, while the fore
going conclusions may play a strong part in facilitating a
temporary adjustment of Soviet-Japanese difficulties, the
future is subject to stresses and uncertainties which no one
can predict, and it is certainly premature to consider the
present
*See despatch No. 670, February 8,1934.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
onomic prespure on dapn for
of the aggressive rulins ol
nstant friction of geographic proximity o
alr these problems being compounded mith
mutual distrust -- it would be a triumph f
plomacy if Japan and Soviet Ruasia could reach
going settlement of their differences by pacific
JGR.
(b) Cabinet Ministers Make Certain Statemente
Ing Japan's Manchurian Policy.
In response to questions put to them in the Di th
Japanese Minister for Overseas Affairs and the Forein
Minister made some interesting statements regarding Japan'
representation and interests in Manchuria. With regardto
the "trinity system" by which the offices of Ambassador to
"Manchukuo", Governor of the Kwantung Leased Territory, and
Commander of the Kwantung Army are vested in one person the
Minister for Overseas Affairs, who controls the administra-
tion of the Kwantung Leased Territory, stated that it was
only temporary. He deplored the situation created by the
fact that the Governor of the Kwantung Leased Territory
has to reside in Changchun.
On the same occasion the Foreign Minister denied em-
phatically that the Government was considering turning thi
South Manchuria Railway over to the "Manchukuo Government
He further stated that the Government was planning toend
emigrants to Manchuria on a larger scale than horetofore.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.97)
etititie
Manchuriahave been of great interest too
Tekyo during February. The Japanese press
many stories of the imminent resognitien or
gime by varfous western powers and many or
Have been based upon the belier that the desire for
marcial advantages would bring this about.
Germany is most frequently mentioned as the 
power that will first grant recognition. The Germim
mercial Attaché in Tokyo recently made a shert tripto
"Manchukuo" and now has been assigned to the consulat:
in Mukden for six months for the purpose of studying th
commercial possibilities, after which he will prooeed to
Germany to present his report. He has stated to friend
in Tokyo that recognition by Germany is under considera-
tion; that Germany wants to do business with Manchukuo
and is looking for an inducement to lure the Japanese away
from the French with whom they have signed an important
contract (See Section VII of this report); that the pro-
ject of trading soya beans for industrial machinery is not
attractive to Germany as she is developing a home substitute
for the beans and hopes soon to cut down her imports of
them. Among the important aspects of the recognition ques-
tion to be considered by the Germans is their trade with
China. The potential value of trade with "Manchukuo" ap-
pears to them to be farge but yet not equal to the present
trade with China. Recognition of "Manohukuo" might create
much embarrassment in China where German interests are not
now

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
wously. esposing reocgnition of
Another member of the atart
in Tokyo has stated to a member of the
bassy that the determining faotor will be th.r
batween Japan and the Soviets; that the latter
grant some sort of recognition of the new state an
thereby help to stabilize the situation before Germ
can have confidence in its commercfal Tature.
The activities of several Belgian businesa men In
"Manohukuo" and Japan have given mise to rumora of impend-
ing Belgian recognition. However, it is not believed thut
the projects visualized by these men are large enough to
justify such action by Belgium for purely commercial rea-
sons.
Near the end of the month the Polish Minister to Japah
M. Moscicki, the son of the President of Poland, left
Tokyo for a short visit to "Manchukuo". He stated to friends
that he had been ordered to go there to investigate the
living conditions of a large group of Polish immigrants who
have recently settled in "Manchukuo". However, his visit,
coinciding with the enthronement of the new Emperor, gave
the press an op ortunity to predict early recognitfon of
the new state by Poland.
(a)
The Forthcoming Enthronement of the "Manchukuo
Emperor" is now the Brincipal Event in Japanese-
"Manchukuo" Relations.
As March 1 approaches the Japanese appear to be perfect-
ing their preparations for the enthronement of Mr. Henry Pu
Yi as "Emperor of Manchukuo". As stated in last month's
Political Report, they hope that this event will prove to the
world
* Telegram No. 29, Feb. 16, 8 p.m., Despatch No. 680, February
21,1984.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
Ia that Japan does not w
spokesmen have constantiy.
thronement will not affect North China
boundaries or "Manchukuo" will be preserted.
asked about the boundary between "Manchukuo" and
golia the Japanese Foreign Minister recently sta
this would be a matter for future negotiation.? Cd
the convenience of the Japanese doctrine of manifes%
tiny" and the thorn in the side of Manchukuo which 1
caused by the Chahar salient, it is not beyond the bound
of imagination that the Japanese military will somp day
want to include Outer Mongolia within the new empire.
Yi's ascension to the throne may well be calculated-to ap
peal to the racial sentiments of the Mongols. In Outer
Mongolia the Japanese do, however, meet the competition
of the Soviets and the future of this territory will depond
much upon Japanese-Soviet relations.*
(e) The Anglo-Japanese Trade Conference is in Apparent
Deadlock.
The Anglo-Japanese Trade Conference, for which the in-
dustrialists of the two countries have been preparing for
several months, was formally opened in London on February 14
Before the convening of the conference it became apparent
that there were cive gencies of view which it would be dif-
ficult to overcome. As the month of February ended, after
two weeks of negotiating, it seemed that the conference was
on the verge of collapse. The point of divergence is the
geographical scope of the agreement to be negotiated. The
British contend that their cotton spinners and woolen milis
are
See despatch No. 669, February 8, 1934.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
Japaneseto,draw up
ecompotition 1n 11
The Japanese, on the other hand, pollt out that
hes no control over third countries and thd
thind countries, including her Dominiens,
will negotiate only regarding Anglo-Japinese poy
within the British Grown Colonies, except Inuia
covered by the recently negotiated Indo Japaneae ob
There now apparently exists a deadlock between thowe tw
points of view. The Japanese spinners are not lkkoly to
agree to the extension of the scope of the conference
manded by Britain and presumably the Lancashire spinners are
equally adamant in their stand. The Japanese Government
might wish to make some concession in order to secure n
agreement but the Japanese industrialists who are interestd
in the outcome of the conference appear to be determined
not to sacrifice their position in third countries.
There is further lack of agreement regarding the pro-
ducts which are to be included in the negotiations. The
Japanese want to confine them to cotton products whilo the
British are interested in including other products, such
as woolen goods and rayon. However, some compromise might h
possible in this point of dispute if the geographical duest
tion were settled.
(f) Japanese Are Optimistic About Trade Parley with Dutch
Very little definite information is available in Tokyo
regarding the forthcoming trade conference between Japan and
Holland

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
press-reports
Magch in Java (not in.The
stated in lasp month'a Political Reporms
who are in business in Java have recensly rettur
Japan and have created a feeling of optinfism mmon
exporters. The principal reason for this seeds
the matives of the Dutch East Indles went Japenese
The Japanese are counting upon the domand for their
by the consumer to prevent any restrictions similar
imposed by Britain's possessions. The statements nth
press deplore the fact that Japan buys so little from the
Dutch East Indies and express the desire to buy more. How
ever, there is a noticeable lack of any specific mention
of any Dutch product desired by the Japanese.
SWW.
(g) Pan Asiatic Movement.
Although not new to the Orient the Pan Asiatic movement
was given new vitality at the time of the Manchurian incident.
The move to create a common interest among the Asiatic peoples
began in Japan as early as 1877 when General Saigo Takamori
advocated sending an expedition to Korea. Japan in those days
desired to be the leader in promoting the interests of Asia
tic peoples throughout the world, and to assume the role or
champion of Asia against Western aggression and domination.
Promoters of the movement point to the mutuality of interesta
of the inhabitants of Eastern countries, even including the
Near and Middle East as sections needing protection against
Western
*See despatch No. 668 of February 8, 1934.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
stern boonomic, political, religi
taly enough the oüern pregram
otection not omty against wdoldar 
United States and Europe, but also against'
begause of the latter's plan to revolutionise
which revolutionization, one commentator obserreat
feres definitely with Japan's "defense policy" being
out in Manchuria.
It has been somewhat difficult to convince the Ohir
of the urgent need of uniting in a Pan Aslatic Legu. Ih
Japanese are said to have pointed out that the reason thet
for is that the Chinese have been duped by the mali.
fluence of Great Britain and Soviet Russia into allowing
themselves to be exploited without protest --- a aituntion
which Japan proposes to rectify.
Nevertheless, certain progress has been made in organiz
ing various societies both in Japan and on the Asiatio conti-
nent. The movement is being watched with some uneasiness
by both the British and Dutch Governments. The former 1
interested principally from the economic rather than the
political angle at the present time. The PAN ASIATIC SOCIETY
founded in Tokyo in 1915 was the forerunner of the modern
organizations. Dr. Shumei Okawa, the founder, is comparable
to the famous Dr. Sun Yat-sen in his fervent advocagy. of
Greater Asianism. Other societies followed. The GREAT
ASIATIC SoCIETY of Japan was founded in January of this year.
and counts many influential Japanese statesmen, diplomats
and military men among its members. It is growing rapidly
and will eventually wield a considerable influence toward
achieving

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
QREATER AGIA was. recentLy founded in
the leadership of Mr. Yoshiki Kesagh,, for
porsonnel of the South Manchunian Railway.
SOCIETY is established in Dairen in the residen
Shuzo Okawa, younger brother of the leader of the-Bootr
in Tokyo, and numbers many influential Japanose ofric
among its members. The ASIATIC YOUNG MEN'S LEAGUL I
growing organization of Japanese and Manchurian youths In
Changchun. Several other similar organizations are fost
the Pan Asiatic movement, and while many meetings have
held, there is no single, large organization that has th
far been able to accomplish much of a concrete nature It
1s simply that the movement has thus far been widely adver-
tised, and may later exert a considerable influence In al1
countries of the East.
(h) Inflammatory Publications.
The press has been reporting considerable reaction on
the part of Government officials to the many publications
894.918
as well as public utterances of an inflamnatory or "jingois-
tic" character. Speeches have been made in the Diet by
several prominent statesmen and officials deploring publica-
tion of views c lculated t incite public feeling. Among
the speakers were Count Futaara, personal friend of the
Emperor, Mr. Jinjiro Mizuno of the House of Peers, Mr. Ken-
kichi Yoshizawa, former Minister for Foreign Affairs, and
even War Minister Hayashi, who agreed that articles of an
inflammatory nature that teno to impair Japanese relations
with foreign countries should be suppressed.
With the appearance of illustrated books describing
possible

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.97)
wrent that.some reatraint
nd publistrers have
aroumeht to submit any and alr
publication, having anything to do with toth
to. a competent committee for anproval. At
the Ministers of War and Navy have begum Daypai
their own departments in an attempt to discoure
nistic utterances on the part of Army and Navy orr
that manner the Foreign Office hapes to limimath
obstacle to the maintenance of good relations with th
United States and Soviet Russia.
(1) Disarmament; British Note on Plan For Germany
Delivered.
The British memorandum on disarmament, concerning pirt
cularly the German situation, was handed to the Foreign
Minister by the British Ambassador, Sir Franois Lindley
on January 31. The memorandum recommends that Germany be
allowed to re-arm to a certain degree and that direct ne-
gotiations be carried on between France and Germany. Thus
far the Japanese Government has made no official anmouncement
regarding its attitude toward the proposals contained in
the note, having merely acknowledged its receipt. A reply
has been promised shortly.
MNH.
Press.
Although the much-publicized marriage between "Prinoe
Riji Araya of Abyssinia and a Japanese girl seems about to
fall through because of the intervention of the Japanese
goverrment

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.92)
out Abysaixta
recently
tated that the Ethioplan
much 1nterested in Japan that a
do for à bride for the "Crown Princew of the
t
The newspaper gives as its source of inf
a letter written by a Japanese cock employed by
of Abyssinia.
SWW.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
TCAY
The menth of February mas been a
the Saite Cabinet. Tme prinoipal basim
been that of listening to attacks against variou
of the Cabinet and investigating the chargesma
Cabinet has been praised in some quarters of lat
of its crusade against the military influence which
dominated the Empire, and now the Cabinet members them
are being severely attacked. Some observers wonder if it
eventually cause the overthrow of the Cabinet which they
consider an obstacle to their plans. Beginning with the
resignation of Minister of Commerce, Baron Nakajima* as
result of charges that he was personally interested in the
iron merger and in the sale of Taiwan Bank shares, the Diet
proceeded to investigate charges brought by Mr. Okamoto, a
leader of the pro-military group of the Seiyukai party,
against Mr. Hatoyama, Minister of Education. Mr. Okamoto
stated that he would sacrifice himself in an effort to
"purify politics" and expose illegal and unethical practices
on the part of Government officials. He charged that Minis-
ter Hatoyama received ¥50,000 in connection with the 1931
sale of some forest lands in Saghalien, and that he himself
was involved in the shady deal. While subsequent investiga
tion has not proved that the Education Minister received any
such sum (he having denied that he received more than
¥30,000 as a campaign con ribution), it was at once predicted
that he would resign because of the wide publicity given the
a1leged
*See telegram No. 24, February 9, 1934.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
on wih take plao moon
Mintater himself will asaudet
The Okamoto charges Included Rail
as having been implicated in the sale of the
shares, but thus far no preof at all has been
1t seems likely the charges will be dropped.Ruy
other charges against the Minister ef irregulmpitie
railway construction have also been heard, but it 1s
believed that they will be pushed at present.
The Diet was thrown into an uproar over the Ok
charges against Mr. Hatoyama. In an effort to keep unity
in the party, Seiyukai members attempted to sflence Mr.
Okamoto. The Suzuki faction, of which Mr. Hatoyama Is h
most influential leader, expelled Mr. Okamoto at once, and
attempted to have him barred from further Diet sessions
However, opposing party members and both the Minseito and
Kokumin Domei parties insisted upon thorough investigatton,
with the result that the Diet was unable to carry on further
regular business, and the prestige of the Saito Cabinet began
to wane visibly. Seiyukai floor leader Mochizuki actually
resigned from his party because of the threatened split over
the Hatoyama affair, and was induced to withdraw his resima-
tion only after much argument to the effect that other mem-
bers would also resign and leave the party in a sorry plight:
During the critical interpellations in the Diet over
alleged irregularities on the part of Cabinet members, Premier
Makoto Saito was confined to his home with a severe cold. His
absence

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
the immiment resignoti
plentifulA member of th
the Lower House has filed a resolution
of monrconfidence in what is termed a
Cabinet.
The newspaper MIYAko 1s definite in propheeving
the resignation of the Cabimet is certain. Whetherer
Saito will be able to hold it together for the root
Diet session is problematical, it continues, but it 
ly that resignation will not take place before the bud
has been passed. It is unthinkable, the MIyAko states, that
the Cabinet will remain in office after the Diet seasron
closes. However, all the newspapers appear to agres that
it will be difficult to find a successor to replace Premier
Saito, and several appear convineed that no matter who forms
a new Cabinet it is sure to be short-lived. There does not
seem to be anyone in the Army or Navy who is popular enough
with all political factions to head a new government. The
ADVERTISER lists the possible successors to Premier Saito
as follows, giving first place to the present Finance Ministor
Korekiyo Takahashi, against whom no open accusations have yet
been made: Takahashi; General Sadao Araki, recently resigned
War Minister; Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma, Vice President of
the Privy Council, described by one paper as being of Fascist
inclination"; General Kazunari Ugaki, Governor-General of
Korea; and Prince Fumimaro Konoye, President of the House

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
Peers. No mention was mady ofr
saident of the Seiyulost party.
to the effect that upon the resigmatt
Cabinet, Admiral Saito would again be choa
Aocording to the ADVERTISEn, a minor onp 1
seito party holds that the Saito Government has a t
continue indefinitely, especially in view of the rea
"house-cleaning" that has been going on both in the
and in the two major political parties as a result 
the graft charges.
The shadow of Fascism, so greatly feared by many in
the Government, seems also to have fallen across the, p
of Japanese politics. After pulling themselves together
following the quake of the Okamoto charges, the Seiyukai
and Minseito parties combined to the extent of crying
"Fascist plot" in answer to the accusations, which they
pointed out had not been successfully substantiated. Party
leaders are reported as claiming to see a move for virtual
dictatorship behind the graft charges, and in that connection
they mention the names of Baron Hiranuma, General Araki and
General Jinzaburo Mazaki, Inspector-General of Military
Education. The CHUGAI SHOGYo feels that a certain military
faction wants the Saito Cabinet overthrown. It believes
that Gen rals Araki and Mazaki, of Fascist leanings, fear
that War Minister Hayashi, who has no Fascist persuasion,
will not name Army officers of their choice for the cming
March promotions and transfers. Consequently, they are
1ntorested

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
that General Hayeant beloaen
miMtary thought as demeral Araki.
The WIPPON-DEMPO nowe serviee easmrts
what individuals are behind the drive on the Ha
they favor Baron Hiranuma as the head of a Faseist
of government. The news service reports political
as being of the opinion that the Cabinet will probabl
last longer than March 15, which should be a few day
the Diet finally adopts the budget.
(b) Army and Navy Attacked and Defanded in Diet.
In spite of the new policy of General Senjuro Haymaha.
recently appointed Minister of War, to cooperate with the
Foreign Office in dealing with international affairs while
diminishing its activity in domestic matters -- particularly
political -- the Army as well as the Navy have become targets
at which the inspired invective of political leaders has
been hurled during the present Diet session. Younger
Army and Navy men have favored both their Ministers adopt-
ing sterner attitudes toward the unsympathetic non-military
circles, but at least General Hayashi has maintained his
stand of having the minimum to do with politics. He een
deplored utterances of his officers which have stirred
public feeling against the military.
The Meirinkai, purporting to be an association of
politically minded retired Army and Navy officers, warned
the two leading political parties that "very grave conse
quences indeed" might follow the continuation of attacks
on the military in the Diet. The statement continued, we
denounce political partics which attempt to alienate the
people from the military", and was signed by General Kuni-
shige Tanaka, retired. The Meirinkai attempts to scoff-

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
in order to set up  dlotatorehtp;
have trumpsd up a l9sssse srisis in
prepare Tor it now and thereby appropriate th
the budget funds; that they are meddling too much
politios; and that there is nothing to the mill
plaint regarding alienation of public and military
association cited its budget requests for agrioulture
aid, that the military interests would never do nythly
detrimental to the nation, that its only interest in port
tics was occasioned by the wide-spread loss of faith in
the corrupt political parties, but that military men had
"never sung the praise of either Fascism or dictatorships.
Navy Minister Osumi reported in secret sossion of the
Lower House that there were several instances of distribution
of anti-war literature among Navy men, and cited that as one
reason for the issuance of the Army-Navy joint statement
of December, protesting against the alienation of the people
especially agricultural -- from the military. Various
foreign publications, claimed to be designed to destroy
national unity, were reported by War Minister Hayashi to
have been imported.
However, Representative Yamamasu, a member of the Min-
seito party, launched a scathing attack in the Diet on the
military faction for its interference in politics. He
maintained that the May 15th incident was a direct result
of Army and Navy men trying to remedy what they considered
undesirable tendencies in politics. He lamented the lack
of

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.96)
Bementsotan exd
the two armad branehes were pwrsuln
and education of officials. General Bay
Amhile military men are making thoir omm, atud
the Army standpoint, it is unavoidable that they
on state affairs. I never encduraged thom to diso
politics at private gatherings. The educationmlrpe
the Army is based on the fundamental Army poliay ant
never been changed. We are studying various soeial ar
because it is necessary in educating soldiera." Nawy
Minister Osumi said that he endorsed the War Ministwi
reply.
The recent bickering between military and non-military
factions seems to have cleared the air somewhat, and It i
felt that perhaps more moderation and less excess wili b
indulged in by both factions in future programs. At least
General Hayashi has made a good public impression through
following a fairly middle course between agitating fo
bigger defense force appropriation and trying to appease
non-military supporters by cooperating with the Foreign
Office and favoring immediate farm relief.
(c) Navy Minister's Platform for 1935 Conferencge.
Admiral Osumi, Minister of the Navy, made what the
ASAHI termed an im ortant declaration regarding Japan's
demands to be made at the forthcoming Naval parley in
1935. Before the budget committee of the Diet the Minister
stated that the fundamental policy of the Japanese Nevy
at the second Washington conference will be to eliminate
the

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
rightof
ap the Japanese Ravy mast
hent which wil1 assure Japan of complote
fensmi that the Japanese Navy is determindd to
revision of the existing (London and Washingten)
on varmaments; and that the confemence cannet be
to produce fair and reasonable result: if some
attand with the determination to maintain their.
of superiority.
(d) May 15th Civillan Conspirators Given Heavy Sail
tonces.
The twgmty civilians involved in the May 1áth ino1a
were sentenced on February 3rd. The leader Tachibana was
sentenced to life imprisonment and three others were given
fifteen years each. The trials of these men did not creat
the sensation which was caused by the trials of the military
and naval men invorved in the incident. Although Tachiban
was the kind of man who might have been expected to provid
the public with sensational statements, his testimony at
tracted little attention. The only phase of the trials hich
attracted much a tention was the delivery of the judgments
The discrepancy between the sentenccs of the civilians and
lighter sentences of the Army and Navy offieers has been
widely commented upon, both in the press and in the Imperial
Diet.
The general amnesty granted on February 1l in celebre-
tion of the birth of the Crown Prince benefited all of the
May 15th conspirators, and tended to console that part of
the

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
fabretiot of the birth of T.H.
of Japan. During the weaks preeeding the
Japanese law courts were busy delivering senten
as many as possible would benefit. The lass s
the trial of the civilians involved in the Inciden
May 15 wore hurried. for this reason.
By the annesty all death sentences were commut
life sentences; allsentences of life imprisonment
commuted to 20 years imprisonment, except for perions
70 years or under 16 years of age in which cases.their
terms were reduced to 15 years imprisonment; all those
sentenced to terms of imprisonment other than for Iif
had their sentences reduced by one-fourth if they had
not commenced to serve their terms, and by one-half of
the remainder, if they had served one-half of their torms
Persons condemmed for certain crimes, - such as treason,
lèse majesté, murder of blood relatives, murder for robbery,
cruel murder, repeated robberies, and breach of military
discipline, - did not have the benefit of the ammesty.
All those condemned for the part they took in the
Incident of May 15 benefited from the amnesty. The eleven
army cadets who were sentenced to four years of imprisommrnt
had their sentences reduced to three years. The naval
officers who were sentenced to 15 years imprisonment had
their terms reduced by nearly four years and. the others
proportionately. Tachibana, sentenced to life imprisonment,
111

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.91)
B0 years and a1s tour
who ppeaIed, had-thetr
Although the annesty benefited
muing to the nawspapers, the attentlon of
dram principally to 1ts effect upen the conspi
May 15 Incident and to the fact that 1t saved the
Tomeo Sagoya, sentenced to death for shooting Prem
guchi. Sagoya and four others who were awaiting execnth
had their sentences reduced to life imprisonment.
MNE.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
Jenuary ab, 1s nearing its olose withe
yet.of pne important bill. Thius far, prdea
Jimited to aiscussion of various billa, notably
and of foreign affairs, official corruptidn, millt
interference In Government, the so-called "erisis of
the coming naval conferenee,national financesy and
relief. The most important bill before the Dist, that
the budget, has been passed by the Lower House but la
being debated in the House of Peess. However, ther
said to be little doubt of its eventual approval without
material amendment.
This ses ion has been marked by a revival of liberal
and anti-military tendencies. Criticism of military inter-
ference with government, of fascist tendencies in the army,
of the military share of the budget, has been heard in
the Diet in language unprecedented since the outbreak of the
Manchurian incident. The military, on the other hand,
have not lacked support in the Diet, but the signifigant
fact remains that the army and navy have been on the de-
fensive during the session.
Also significant is the conciliatory attitude of the
Foreign Minister toward foreign countries, as evidenced
by his statements in the Diet. It becomes increasingly
evident that the Government has definitely decided on a
policy of peace and cooperation in foreign affairs. In
the military budget discussions the question of the so-
called "crisis of 1935-36" has been severely criticized,
the

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
sto create a Teeling
to atreet adversely the ecosomie wor
piciom abroad.
The astitude of Japan towand the forthco
Conterence has received much attentiom?e
has definitely announced that the present avak
is unsatisfactory, and that a change will be den
the next conferençe.
Much attention has been given in the Diet to n
finances, Anxiety over the mounting burden of dobt
made itself apparent in attacks from various angie
military budget. The Finance Minister has insisted, 1
the face of much criticism, that taxes must not be raise
on the already overburdened public, in spite of the mow
national debt.
It is generally admitted that the farming class is
hopelessly in debt and that further to increase their taxes
at the present time would be to invite trouble. In this
connection, much has been said of the necessity of agrarian
relief, and criticism has been voiced at any suggestion to
reduce such relief funds in favor of the military:
The cause of party government, revived somewhat during
the past few months, has again received a severe blow, by
the partisan bickerings in the Diet and by unsavory revela-
tions of improbity affecting the parties and even Ministers
of State. Baron Nakajima, Minister of Commerce and Indus-
try has resigned, and Mr. Hatoyama, Minister of Education;

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.95)
The Cabinet has undoubtedly beeh
tgmations which have added to the choxts
discontens with the "passive" policies of the
Thip discontent, though based on little that is
has brought many Japanese governments to an end: Ob
are busy at present predicting the personnel or thes
ceeding Cabinet. However, other observers coneede the
duration of the present government until some time lat
in the year.
WTT

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
On Februery 18 with 11ttle oppasition'a
vm à rol1 cal1 vota, the ¥ 2,11e,135,482n
getyfor the 1934-38 year was apppoved at a ple
slon of the House of Representatives. The Seivukai
Minseito parties solidly supported the bill, and the Ko
Domei was in opposition. Debate in the Lower House h
been characterized by outspoken criticism of the size of
the army and navy appropriations which totalled as
but, when it appeared that the opposition thus engenored
might attain serious proportions, Premier Saito was able
to secure the support of both major political parties by
the curious expedient of promising that the Goyernment
would spend still more money -- to be authorized by a later
supplementary budget for farm relief. It was thus, perhaps,
demonstrated that the concern of the representatives was not
so much with the purses of their constituents as with their
votes. It also appeared during the course of interpella-
tions that the naval replenishment program would require
supplementary budget if the price of steel should continue
to rise.
The budget has not yet passed the House of Peers, dis-
cussion having been prolonged to March 10 by a resolution
passed on February 28. Present indications are that the
Government will have no great difficulty in securing its ap
proval but, on February 15, the Finance Minister painted
such a pessimistic picture of the national finances that 
interpellator remarked that the Minister's statements might
prejudice

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
40
prejudiee the sale of government bonds.
clined to foredast in what year it would be
mianoe the budget without recourse to loansy
that although the military predicted a return t
expenditures in Manchuria in two years time, he himso
believed it could not be counted as certain until t
actually happened; and he indicated that world conditie
wore such that it was now impossible to adopt a stable
financial policy based on a probable trénd of business
within Japan.
(b) Inflation.
There have been from time to time expressions of anxioty
lest the continued emission of government bonds should 1ed
to uncontrolled and undesirable inflation. Under interpel-
lation at a meeting of a budget committee of the Diet, the
Minister of Finance endeavored to clarify his policy on
February 10. He assumes that in Japan, where foreign
capital is limited and the national resources meagre, the
balancing of government expenditure with ordinary revenue
is less important than in other countries, and that it is
more important that funds be provided for such purposes as
may seem necessary to promote national development. Conse-
quently the maintenance of government credit rather than
a regular balanced budget is the vital point of financial
policy. Government credit in Japan is to a great extent
dependent on the absorptive capacity of the large banking
and insurance institutions, some of which are quasi-govern-
mental in char cter. If, however, the Bank of Japan itseir
were flooded with government bonds, direct inflation would
result, and so the Finance Minister stated to the
budget

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
Wmustdevisa
a heavy Bolaing of bonds by the Bank
Turther if the bonds underwritten by
do not meet good support and signs are soen
of at undesirable sort prevalling, every meant
taken to prevent such a contingency". Ahe Finance
then went on to say that the Government would, if
sary, force savings banks and insurance compemies to
chase and hol certain amounts of Government bonda hut
.that legislation for that purpose would not be fatroduced
at the present session of the Diet. It may be safd that
considerable inflation has already occurred in Japan In
order to finance the swollen budgets of the last two years
but that the danger point has not yet been reached. From
the foregoing statement of the Finance Minister it to a-
parent that he does not feel it will be necessary to take
the extreme measure outlined above during this year.
(c) Japanese Finances Unaffected by Revaluation of
the Dollar.
No changes have occurred in the Japanese banking,
monetary or exchange situation as a result of the annpunce-
ment on Junu ry 15 of the President's dollar revaluation
plan.* Financial authoricies assumed an attitude of
watchful waiting for further developments in the American
monetary situation, and fluctuations in the yen-dollar
exchange contin cd to depend almost entirely on the position
of the Americin dollar. It is evident that the government!s
policies remain empirical and that it is felt that the time
has not yot come to comait Japan to an inflexible policy In
a world of monetary and economic instability.
*See telegram No. 20, February 1, 11 a.m.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
of a-bill providing for the purohmsd of
According to newspaper reports they are as
1. The Govarnment ahall allow the Bank
to purehase gold mined in Japan.
2. The. Bank of Japan shall Include mimed
thus purohased in its reserves, converting
the legal prioe, not the price paid.
S. The difference between the legal prige and
purchase price shall be made good from Governm
accounts. The Governrent thus shall aasume the
theoretical loss and the loss shall b@ covered
by Government loans to the bank.
4. Such 1oans may not exceed Yen 100,000,000 a
5. The gold shall be purchased theoretically at
the current price but the real price shall be the
current price less deductions for incidental ex-
penses.
This bill has the approval of the Finance Minister
and, it is reported, of the Bank of Japan. Present
expectations are that it will be submitted to the Diet
early in March. Announcement of the bill resulted in an
increase in the open market price for gold from Yen 12 to
Yen 12.50 per momme while the stock market also developed
a bullish tone.
The purpose of this bill is to reimburse the Bank of
Japan for losses taken through the exercise of its funotion
as purchasing agent and depository for the Government's
gold. Since the Government still values gold at Yen 5
per momme (gold parity of the yen), and the Bank's offi-
cial purchase price is now Yen 9.94 per momme, it will
be seen that the losses have been substantial.
Last year, owing to the wide margin between the
official purchase price of gold and the open market price
(now

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.96)
sults of this bill wili be to mlimina
peeause it is foreseen that the pasmage pr
will result in an increase int the officimlp
price of the Bank of Japan. The bill will mlmo
likelihood bring a considerable amount of gold
viously withheld, on the market.
In comment on various developments in the rieldio
Government finance which have been outlined abdve it
seems apparent that there is in Japanese Governtent circles
no real conviction of the necessity of retrenchment. On
the contrary the policy of the Govermment is that the tre
mendous excess of expenditures over ordinary revenue i
an expedient necessary for and justified by the continued
growth and development of the national economy. There
is as yet no indication that the warning of the Finance
Minister that the much publicized 1935-36 crisis may be
financial in character has fallen on fertile ground.
JGP.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANOTAL CONDITES
During the first two months of this yer
forelgn trade was characterized by a decrease in
prevailing unfavorable balance of trade as comparod
January and February of 1933. Imports were decneaaad
about 9 per cent while exports showed the substantiai
increase of 27 per cent. Whereas imports exeeeded
exports during the two month period of last year by
¥125,717,000., that excess was reduced during the cor
responding period of this year to only ¥33,194,000.,
or a decrease of 74 per cent. Renewed efforts on the
part of local manufacturers to capture further world
markets led to an increase in exports of raw silk, cot-
ton textiles, silk textiles and rayon textiles, while im-
ports of raw cotton, raw wool and other leading raw ma-
terials were decreased.
As a result of the aggressive Japanese conquest of
foreign markets in many lines of trade other n tions have
been forced to erect tariff barriers to protect their own
similar industries. Japanese exporters have now felt the
pinch of th se restrictions, and as a retaliatory measure
the Tra e Council of the Foreign Office, at the behest of
manufacturers, has prepared a protective trade law to
present to the Diet next month. That measure will pro-
vi e high customs t riffs on specific commodities from any
given country, and in other c ses will ban or place im-
port guotas on articles from nations which have established
undue hindrances to the sale of Japanese goods. While
Japan, which is economic lly dependent upon foreign trade,
has

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
always adrooated free trades
B, it cannot paraue that policy in the
protectionism elsewmere, and must consequently
some measure of protection. It is understood
is no purpose to protect home industries by exolua
foreign competition, but merely to create an effpctiv
weapon to wield in bargaining.
MNH(b) Agrarian Relief.
The perennial problem of relief of the distresmed
5032
farmers has occupied much time during the present Diet
session. The problem is important for several reasons.
The farming communities, the back-bone of Japan, are in
debt to the extent of approximately Yen 1000 per. house-
hold -- a hopeless burden. Any income in taxation to
meet the enormous new expenditures of the nation is
impossible, as the tax burden rests most heavily on
the farmers. The Army, which is drawn largely from the
farming communities, is vitally interested in rural
conditions. The boom in export trade has benefited the
cities but has brought little relief to the farmers. In
addition a record rice crop last year has lowered prices
and complicated the government's relief rogram.
by
The Rice Control Act, passed/the Diet a year ago
and designed to maintain prices within certain limits,
has had little effect. While prices have been artificially
maintained to some extent, planting has been encouraged
thereby, resulting in a surplus crop too great to dispose
of. Among the various suggestions brought forward is
that of a national rice monopoly, on the order of the
existing

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
Sebt's Readjusthent Quilds Adt
armprs but little, Instead of the 4000
plated by this legislation, only abotm I0o hawe
astabrished. The fact is that no reel relier tsp
until she tax burden is lightened. This the govar
camnot afford in the face of the enormous milftary
penditures. The situation has dangerous possibilities
WTT
(c) Qil Control Bill Prepared for Diet
The Department of Commerce and Industry has now
drafted a bill to be presented to the Diet, probably
4.6363
after March 1st, to give the Government control over the
supply and sale of petroleum products in Japan. Looking
forward to the anticipated "crisis of 1935-36" the Govern-
ment has come to realize more and more its dependence
upon foreign producers of petroleum for its supply.
Consequently, as a national defense policy the new bill
has been drafted, and it is anticipated by foreign oil
interests in Japan that it will be enacted by the Diet
The draft bill provides that refiners and dealers
must be licensed to operate; that dealers must maintain
a certain supply of oil on hand, the amount to be fixed by
the Government; that import quotas for each importer are
to be fixed by the Government; and that the Government may
control prices and rogulate the oil business in the public
interest.
American oil interests in Japan do not anticipate
that

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
resard to loste Lnteres
tied up in the large permanens gil
They think it is donbtruy that thi
ment wili subsidize them in that investment.
the Government control of price follows the ourr
ket quotations, no difficulty is expected as a result
of that section of the new bill. The proposed
tion, however, would give the Government wide power
of control over all oil refiners and importers in Japan,
and could be used, if desired, to force the foreign pil
companies out of this field.
The Government is now negotiating with the Soviet
for the importation of oil from North Saghalien up to
125,000 tons, under preferential tariff, and there is
considerable agitation to increase the appropriation
for oil prospecting to be used in that territory by the
North Saghalien Oil Company of Japan under the agreement
between Japan and Soviet Russia, which expires in 19z6.
Baron Iwakura of the House of Peers pointed out that
there 1s a visible supply of 10,000,000 tons of o11 in.
North Saghalien -- about five years consumption -- and
only ¥1,600,000 has been set aside for exploitation purposes.
Prospecting should be completed by the time the agreement
expires, he stated, and the right to drill for oil ob-
tained.
It is also reported that an agreement between Mr.
Kojiro Matsukata, oil importer here, and Soviet representa-
tive Mr. Kotchetoff has been signed for the inauguration
of

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
permittoa, might cause Amerioan
ies in Japan some unemsiness.
(a) Industrial Production Increased in 1933.
Statistics recently issued by the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry show that there was an inerease ih the
production of all but three principal commodities during
1983 as compared with the preceding year. -Slight redue
t1ons in spun silk and copper products, and a big drop
in crude oil production were recorded. However, sub-
stantial advances were made in all kinds of textiles
especially woolen textiles -- and the production of rayon
was increased 27 per cent. Slight betterment in world
conditions, favorable exchange rates, more high-pressure
salesmanship, and easy money market and improved produc-
tion methods are given as the reasons for the larger
industrial output during 1933.
(e) Markets Characterized by Optimism.
There appears to be an optimistic feeling in money
and stock markets of late. The effect of floating
Government loans has been to lower interest rates and
create a plentiful supply of money. Borrowers find little
difficulty in obtaining loans and investors have now turned
to the more speculative, less gilt-edged type of security,
in the belief that the bullish tendency in the stock and
bond markets will continue. Unsettled internal politics
has not seemed to bother traders noticeably, possibly
because

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
Whil there has been a slump in r
owing to teamigal difrioulties, the basic pew
mak, and in view of the reported inoreasejin
somsumption, there should be an improvementshor
1s nó basis for similar optimism in the cotton 
ket, however. The discouraging developments in th
Japanese trade parley, together with the possibirity
Increased Dutch East Indies tariffs, do not augur well
fer the immediate future of the cotton textile industry
in Japan. Until trade policies in foreign countries are
more settled, traders will probably use caution. However,
as the Government is working hard at negotiating for
favorable treatment abroad, the cautious trading is not
tempered with pessimism.
MNH
(f) Speculative Buying of Silver.
Possibly stimulated by press reports from the United
States indicating increased agitation for the remonetiza-
tion of silver there were heavy transactions in bar silver.
around the middle of the month. The rise in the world
price of silver was attended, during the middle of the month,
by a shift in speculative activity from gold to silver in
Japan.
JGP.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
ORTNMHCAN
GTIVIDDES OF TOREION
(a) Erémen Prosresh in
The atory of M. Andre d'olivier, an agent of
French Assoeiation National d'Expansion Econemiqud,
almost reaches the heights of romanse. He was s
to Manchukuo nearly a year ago to make a study
mercial possibilities and to report his findings to
orgaiization, which is understood to include in it
membership some of the most powerful industries in France
While working in this field he saw an opportunity of
negotiating what he considered a good contract for his.
principals and immediately took it up.. His activities
were discovered by the newspapers and the story leaked
out bit by bit. When reports first appeared in the
world's press they were discounted by most people but
they eventually became so persistent that his organiza-
tion in Paris issued a denial that he was negotiating
any contract with the Japanese. Finally when his prin-
cipals discovered that the reports were true they were
apparently so infuriated that they disowned him explain-
ing that he hac exceeded his authority, and left him in
the Far East not only without a job but without enough
money to pay his passage home.
Very soon after this French representatives in the
Far East, especially the French Ambassador to Japan,
realized that the contract negotiated by M. d'olivier,
which was with the South Manchuria Railway, was of
tremendous
* Telegram No. 5, February 1:, 5 p.m. and No. 9,
February 16, 8 p.m.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
o support of the Assoos
ton Edonomidue. As atated in
Jahuary, authorisation wae finally
xact to be signed.
Then there developed dirficulties on ther
side. Although the Kwantung Army, with whom diorrvier
carried on his negotiations, was in faver of the donts
the Overseas Department, who have the final decigion
on matters regarding the South Manchuria Railway, op-
posed it. It is understood that the Japanesesmilitary
favored the French in this matter because they want to
restrict the activity of Japanese capitalists in Man-
chukuo". On the other hand the Department of Overseas
Affairs wished to reserve the business for the Japanese.
Finally as the month closed it was learned that the con-
tract would be signed, this being considered another triumph
for the Japanese military in "Manchukuo". ( The contract
was actually signed on March 5, 1934). This Embassy is
informed from a reliable source that the contract provides
for the establishment of a "consortium", by which is ap-
parently meant an agency for placing orders. The capi-
talization is only Yen 100,000 and the manager, is M.
d'olivier. There are a dozen directors, six of whom are
directors of the South Manchuria Railway, and six direct-
ors of French concerns, members of the Association
Nationale d'Expansion Economique. There have been re-
ports of a second, more secret, contract which the French
signed with reservations. A member of the French Em-
bassy

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.97)
58
recently stated that this sedend
emqists,of speciric orders amounting to s
ranow which the French have four months to agee
fulrill. For large orders they will grant fifteen
years credit, the financing to be done by the sale of
South Manchuria Railway bonds. The orders are said
to cover a large variety of industrial products,
road building machinery, railway equipment, harbor
equipment, et cetera.
In private conversation M. d'Olivier appears to be
"bubbling over" with pride over his "defeat" of the
Germans on the plains of Manchuria.
(b) Other Business Activity in "Manchukuo".
Besides d'Olivier there are other French industrialists
who appear to be active in Manchuria at the moment. In
addition there are many Germans. The latter are understood
to want to sell the same products as are covered by the
d'olivier contract but they are not able to offer equal
credit terms. This matter is discussed at length on page
17 of this report under Political Activities and in des-
patch No. 680 of February 21, 1934.
SWW.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
Third Groatofasdo
In May or June of this year the Ministry ofo
asfeirs is planming to send the third group of
awell the Japanese colony in Manchuria. Some 500 Will
and they will be all armed men, about To per cent or the
Tarmers and the remainder ex-service men. The susceep of
previous colonization has encoumaged the presont plan,
and it has been found that despite the great difrerence
in climate, Japanese immigrants in Manchuria appear to.
withstand the rigors of the climate very well. Although
some of the earlier emigrants have returned to Japan, the
majority have remained. The Government is now contemplat-
ing sending their famiies to join them, and even anticipates
that several prospective brides will be among the women
sent. The Go ernment subsidy for colonists is ¥8o for tra-
veling expense, ¥30 for clothing, ¥75 for livestock,
¥150 for farming implements and ¥250 for individual houses.
In addition, ¥35,000 is provided for the construction of
barracks. Work in the colonies is said to be very hard and
long, and recreation scarce. Ado to that the very cold
climate and the result is that many prospective immigrants
are discouraged by reports from those who have gone.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS: Nil.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
Pouches from the Departm
Addresses at a dinner of the
America-Jépan Society.
Monthly politisel repert for Jat
Hape for the Embassy.
Laying of keels of the U.S.S. Pom
SELFRIDGE, McDOUGAL and WINSLOW.
Laying of keel or U.S.S. PIkK.
8.
League of Asiatic Peoples.
8.
Coronation of Pu Yi as Eaperor of Manohukue.
70
8.
Soviet-Japanese relations.
671
Interpellation regarding Dr. Hornbeak's mpeech.
672
Diplomatic visa report.
673
10.
Proceedings of the 65th Diet.
674
15.
Taxes on estates.
Correspondence exchanged betmsen the Eabassy
675
and Mr. Frank Cary regarding the "Shanghat
Incident".
Employment of two new telephone operators.
676
677
20.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U.S.
678
20.
COPY of INSTRUCTIONS TO DIPLOMATIC OFFICERS
for Mr. Hughes.
679
20.
Repairs to watchclook.
680
21.
Investment of capital in Manchukuo.
681
21.
Invasion of Manchuria as judged by the
Catholic dootrine.
682
21.
Reports of American air bases in Fukien.
683
21.
The Saito Cabinet.
684
n
21.
Inflammatory publications.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.89)
etorthe
and
Laying of keél ar U.s.8. Tam
Diplammtie viss report.
Income tax laws of Japan.
22.
Soviet-Japanese relatioms
23.
86.
Returning purchase order to the Depart
28.
Reply of Japanese Govermment to note
communicating resolution of Philippins
Legislature

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
1, 5 p.m.
Resignatios of telupho
5, 11 a.m.
Appointment of Marsotfos
9, 4 p.m.
Resigmation of Bare
of Commeree end Indd
12, 5 p.m.
French investment in Manoharia.
24. 2 p.m.
Travel route of Mr. Washington to Ist
16, 4 p.m.
International Veterinary Congres
28
16, 7 p.m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U.S.
29
16, 8 p.m.
French investment in Manekuria.
30
17, 11 a.m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U.S.
31
 17, 7 p.m.
Travel route of Mr. Washington to Istanbui.
32
20, 4 p.m.
Silver bullion prices in Japan.
33
* 20, 5 p.m.
Resignation of Embassy fireman.
34
26, 10 a.m.
Travel route of Mr. Washington to Istanbul.
35
26, 2 p.m.
Departure of Mr. Neville; arrival of Mr
Dickover and Mr. Andrews.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.88)
CHARGE SLIP
894.0d PR
File No.
CHARGE TO—
DATE
ClerK's INITIALS
Remarks
35
4/8/49
FE-amine
CFH

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
WE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A
QE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 13, 1934.
BKH
You may perhaps have noticed that
Tokyo's monthly political reports have
been steadily growing in length. The
present report for the month of May is,
I think, too long, in the sense that the
report contains considerable important
new material which might better have been
reported to the Department in special
despatches. There is, for example, an
interesting section of more than six
pages (pages 11 - 18) on Japanese rela-
tions with China, including some inter-
esting press news with regard to the
instructions which the Japanese Minister
to China is said to have taken to China
from Tokyo after consultation with the
Foreign Kinister. I am inclined to
think that some of the material even
merited reporting by telegraph.
I suggest that you read the entire
section on political relations with the
United States (pages 1 - 5). You will
note that the last recorded statement
of the Foreign Cffice with regard to
the American aide-memoire of April 28
indicates that no reply had been drafted,
"since the American statement did not
call for a reply."
The se

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
The section on "Manchukuo" and China
is also worth reading in full (pages 16 -
18). Among the important features are:
1. The economic section of the
Kwantung Army will hereafter be
administered by a civilian, and not
by a military officer;
2. An effort is being made to
define coordiration between Japanese
and Manchurian economic policy;
3. French and German commercial
interests are still seeking commercial
and financial arrangements with
"Manchukuo".4)China will be invited
to accept financial assistance from
Japan, or from international banking
organizations in which Japan will
be paramount, instead of seeking
assistance from foreign interests
to the exclusion of Japan.
The only feature that is new of the
section on relations with Soviet Russia
is the paragraph reporting renewed Russian
activities in Mongolia (pages 2l-22), where
Russian agents are said to have concluded
with the Chinese an arrangement whereby
Russia would be given rights to build roads
and establish wireless stations in Inner
Mongolia.
As the

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
As the Japanese-Netherland Indies
Trade Conference promises to become a
knock-down and drag-out fight, I believe
you should read for background purposes
pages 23 to 26. I will put into circula-
tion a recently received despatch from
Batavia describing the opening manoeuvers
of the two delegations.
There is a fairly interesting section
on commercial relations between Britain and
Japan, containing information which I have
seen elsewhere but which may perhaps be
new to you. I have marked several lines
on page 3l, which raise an interesting
theory.
FU:EAD:ILY

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 823.
Subject:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
During the Month of May, 1934.
3-5.9-11,23-27.
WE
29-33
994
16,28,
LA
JUL 28 19340
FAR EASTERN ALFAIRS
DIVISION OF
RECO
FILE
B
Ex cerplo as indicated to
Alc
/78
pohit.
JUL 241934
The Honorable
EASTEN CO
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
1/
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japanfor the
month of May, 1934.
0CT
Respectfully yours,
221934
Enclosure:
Report No. 92.
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
11
" Consulate General, Shanghai
n
" Consulste General, Mukden
n
" Consulate General, Harbin.
n
" Consulate, Dairen.
In triplicate to the Department.
800-Japan.
WTT: MNH: GDA: JGP:R

=== Page 225 === (confidence 1.00)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF MAY, 1934.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
POLITICAL HELATIONA JITH O
(a) "Manehakuo" Davelop
L. Prince Chichibu Visits Haio
2. The Recogmition Probi
8. Civillan to Hoad K
tmituo" has Omm
Bouth Manchnria Railway Rabognit
Forelgn Capital Seeks Foothold..
7. "Manchukuo" Navy Seare....
8. Budget
(b) China-Improving Relations; Policy State-
ment; Foreign Aid
(c) Soviet Japanese Relations:
1. Chinese Eastern Railway
2. Firing on "Manchukuo" river steamers
3. Settlement of the Peshikoff case:
Rumors Concerning Mongolia.
General
(d) Netherlands Indies-Forthooming Trade Perley.6r
(e) Australia's Eastern Mission Visits Japan,
(f) Brazilian Immigration Restriction..
28
(g) Great Britain and India- Trade Conference
29-81
Sequels
(h) The League of Nations and Salvador's
Z2
Recognition of "Manchukub"
(1) The Belgian Special Mission to Japan.
III

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
I. Attitude Teeard Politioal
1. Rear Admiral Sakano s Statemont
2. More Naval Air Bases.
Havy Personnel Changes to Provide
Anticipated "Crisish
(d) Privy Council.
IV
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to Report.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) Taxation......
(b) Inflation Recommended by the Minister of
Finance.
(c) Interest Taken by the Ministry of Finance in
the Proposed United States Silver Legisla-
tion
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
45
(a) Foreign Trade.
(b) Farming Problems.
45
1. Fertilizers
45,46
2. Silk Cocoons
46,47
3. Rice
(e)

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTIVITIRB OP ANNE
Nothing to Report
VITI
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMNERCIAL FIR
Nothing to Report
LABOR AND IMMIGRATION:
Nothing to Report
MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to Report

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.93)
want is the Japanese press.
of restrained naturse censi
th merican statoment mn cloaply in
panese policy tomard Ohina as expressed
statoment 1ssued on April 20th and im
Minister's subsequent statememt of April zeth.
Vice Winister for Foreign Arfairs, with wh
Ammm's statement had been given to the preae
favorable terms of the American aide memoire.
ly the Foreign Office and the Japanese newspapers
ever their inward opinion may be on the matter, have
resorted to assuming the public attitude that Mre mil
aide memoire is not entirely inconsistent with Japants
intentions toward China. Such an attitude is abvioumly
incompatible with the fact that the Foreign Office has
not disavowed the policy defined in Amau's original at
ment, although Mr. Hirota's subsequent statement was 
truculent in tone. Furthermore, the Japanese Gotern
mont has not expressed any intention of disavowing that
* Embassy's despatch No. 792 of May 18, 1934.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.96)
1at the mattar drop. but rurins
bath there was little or no comme
carning a possible reply. The Toryo Nichi Nzox
made the ansertion that the Foreign Orfice Had alm
the dracting of a reply which would emphasise
of interpretatica by Japan of treaties in which Chiss.
cerned. The NIPPON DEMPO of May Srd reportud that the
a consensus of opinion among Foreign Office officitls
a reply to the American aide memoire, since the
statement did not call fer a reply. The TOKYo WICHI NIGHX
of May 6th stated that the Foreign Minister, after a com-
ference with the Minister of War, had definitely decided
to issue a counter memoranduin. On May 7th the Foreign Ofitce
spokesman denied the press reports that a reply to the
American statement was being drafted and emphatically denied
the TOKYO NICHI NICHI story that the Foreign Minister ha
conferred with the Minister of War on this purely diplomatle
matter.
* Embassy's despatch No. 771 of May 4, 1934.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.93)
Prinee Eande,P
lod oa Jay 17th fer the tilt
of attendins his sens grad
willm Bool. In the lol nempaper
Wlation as to the real purpose of Prinde Ko
It was reported that the President of the Hond
as making an "unofficial good-will tonr" and"
papers that he had even anmounded that such was the
of his Journey. The Japanese language newispapers a
as highly important the Prince's conference, on the
of his departure, with the Minister of the Waty, the o
Chief of the Navy Staff, and the Vice-Minister of the
who was Chief Naval Delegate to the Geneva Disar
ference. The ASAHI even went so far as to say that the
three naval men explained the stand that Japan would take
at the forthcoming naval conference, with the implication.
that Prince Konoe would discuss naval matters in Washingto
The real purpose of Prince Konee's visit was the subjeet
of the Embassy's telegram No. 89 of May 5, 1934.
WENI
(c) The Naval Conference and Japan's Desire for
Naval Parity
The Foreign Minister informed the Ambaseador that
on May 29th he had instructed the Japanese Ambassador at London
sa0A1sa5
to accept the British proposal to hold bilateral naval con-
versations before the naval conference on the understanding

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.93)
Soh To. io of June lat
watly regarded to be the polity that
ties will Tollow at the lsts dodrerene
A great deal of disousston in the lod
brought forth by Becretary Beansomls stat
m reported by Rengo, to the effect that the Ui
will consider strengtheming ite nayal bases in
it Japan seeks to build a fleet above the limity
tth
Washington Treaty or to attain maval parity
States and Great Britain. The Japanese Navy Dop
spokesman at that time,** Vice Admiral Bakamo, isaied
immediate statement in reply, the gist of which, as it.
appeared in the ASAHI SHIMBUN of May 25, 1s that the 1nter
national situation has changed radically since tho concl
sion of the Washington Naval Treaty and the London Wavar
Treaty, and that a "fairer and more reasonable" agreement
must be concluded to replace the existing treaties in arder
that security in national defense may be guaranteed for the
Japanese Empire. ***An editorial in the OSAKA ASAHI of May 20
* Embassy's telegram No. 104 of May 31, 1934
** See Section III " Internal Political Affairs"
*** Embassy's despatch No. 810 of June 1, 1934.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
relations
but the United states and
mistaken if they think

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
thg between Japan and
er has docided to sd H.I..
perial Envoy to Esingking to congratulate for
Majesty Emperor Kangte upon his recent corom
the establishment of the mManchukuoan Eapirew
will be accompanied by Grand Master of Ceremonims
Hayashi, Lt. General Ueda, Vice-Chief of the i
Staff, Rear Admiral Tsude of the Navy General Starr:
many other high officials. The mission is moheduled
leave Japan for Hsingking via Dairen after the firat or
and will travel on one of Japan's new 10,000 ton cruis
The press attaches considerable importance to the projee
ted visit, stating that the resulting ceremonies of state
will help strengthen the ties between the two countries.
It is also rumored that Emperor Kangte may return the tate
visit possibly next March.
Now that El Salvador has accorded recognition to
"Manchukuo" (See League of Nations Section), Japan has re-
newed its efforts to bring about recogaition by other natfons,
in accordance with its program of assisting in the development
of "Manchukuo". Ardent Japanophiles have tried to capitalis
the recent attempt to establish effective postal arrangements
in Manchuria, by declaring international acceptance or postal
agreement

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
Qvatkeas Affairs and Vinance,
idt a civilian to hend the Spooiel
Aray Adminimtratiod, which seotion
Adan-military matters. Mr. Giiohi Ono, To
of Finance, is the man chosen, and me will shes
the Chier of Staff of the Kwantung Ary who be
position. His duties will be concerned with 
economic and industrial activities and developmtats
the country now administered by the Bouth Mancharia Rails
having bearing upon the national defense of Japan and
kuo". Other enterprises will remain under railmay control
4. "Manchukuo" has Own Economie Policy.
The "Manchukuoan Government" on its part, while the
Japanese Cabinet was further defining its Manchurian policyy
adopted the following policy of its own'regarding economie
control, according to the JIJI SHIMPO of May 5th:
" Japan and Manchukuo are like two wheels of a car
and it is clear that, judging from the resources
and industrial conditions of the two comtries they
should form a single economic unit. Based on this
viewpoint the following fundamental polioy for
economic control of Manchukuo is decided upont
1. That Japan-Manchukuo economy be made into
single unit and be so rationalized as to atbin
harmony
2. That the existence of Japan and Manchakuo and
the life of the two peoples be made secure in
time of both peace and war.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
Regarding täe reorganixation
churia Railway, the War and Overseas Agfai
not yet agreed on all points, but it is raph
both favor gradual reform instead of immedin
purpose appears to be aimed at concentraty
of "Manchukuo's economic development in the in
section of the Kwangtung Army in order to msure mor
and systematic progress, and, it is understood, in art
Japanese firms and investors may have the preferenee 
other foreigners in taking advantage of the apparenbly
opportunities that will be offered for profitable ente
prises. Reference is made to the Embassy'e donfidential
despatch No. 783 of May 17th in the foregoing conneoti
in which a prominent American business man obaerved
from what he had seen of "Manchukuon under Japant
domination, it offers more promise than any wther lil
pdo

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.94)
poliey
thn ever 1ngtting 
ass sroup wants to be the fs
fom fear opportunitime may bp lqst.
a'olivier prenoh group, it is repertes
N. Brian, another Frenchman, has stated
to organize a syadicate to raise cotton in
district; the French Indo-China Bank has appi
part of the engineering work of the Bouth Mane
and to invest capital Jointly with the Toe (mest
Engineering Company, hoping to sell machinery alm
another French engineer and the head of a ltquid air
manufacturing concern have also made attractive of
to the Government for concessions; certain @erman
have made a combined offer to the "Manchukuo Governm
of machinery of all kinds on long term credits; and the
NICHI NICHI of May 19th reports that a certain smount of
progress has been made between the German and "mancmukio?
Governments toward establishing a barter system.
Germany buys about sixty percent of Manchurials be
duction, it is trying to arrange to pay for the beans

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.92)
the arte
treased interest foreign investor
chukmes, the Bank of Japan announce
of ss ihvestigation shox tmat the
"Manemkuo" total $ 461 d00,000
large increase in the South Manehuria Rallme
compared #1th the total of % 41,000,000, 1n.1
¥ 20,000,000 during the previous year
ON
WE
"Manchukuo" Nasy Scare.
A Rengo despatch whioh appeared in the JAPa
ADVERTISER of May 23 under the headline Talk. Manchn
is Planning Navy Interests United States," that his
Government officials in Washington are manifesting
interest in reports that "Manchukuo" is embarking on
a program of naval construction and are remarking that
the possible result of such a program will be construt
by Japan beyond the 5-5-3 naval ratio. Acooding to
information voluntarily furoished to the American a
Attaché several months ago by the Japanose Javy Dap
the size of the "Manchukuoan Navy" under comtructio
hardly cause alarm: Japan has aiready completed fer

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
largest palibre guo being 160
Two guard ships of 184 toms
calibre gun of so.
Four guard ships of 42 tons each
celibre gun of 50 mm.
B. Budget.
According to another Rengo despateh in the Jan
ADVERTISER of May 27, on May 25 the cabinot of*
discussed the budget for the fiseal year July 1, 19
to June 80, 1935 and decided upon the follow
Expend1tures ....¥ 273,506,027(about 82,051,808)
Revenues
 ￥ 177,571,577(about 5,371,473)
Thus, according to the above figures, estimated x-
penditures will exceed estimated revenues by
¥ 95,934,450 or approximately $28,680,335.
The news despatch in question explains that the dericit
will arise on account of various new enterprises nd the
construction of government works.
GDA
b. China
Improving Relations; Policy Statement;
Foreign Aid.
While relations between Japan and China seem to be
793.94
a little easier at present, now that the repercussions
caused by Japan's announcement of its China policy* have
somewhat
* Embassy's despatch No. 771, of May 4, 1934.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.96)
fobyoértain
proprietary attitude. Japameme
Axiyoshi, who has just retarned to Na
gisit to Tokyo, attempted to banish fears of
unfriendly feeling resulting, but at the
Teported to be somewhat seneerned over the mit
that had developed in China. As Mr. X. Yoshisawa
Foreign Minister is quoted as saying, the resultimg
Japanese boycotts and economic blockade in China haye
sulted in serious damage to Japanese trade. But t the
same time Chinese business men have also suffered som
siderably owing to their loss of business, and intormel
political strife has been aggravated by conflicting
sympathies. Mr. Ariyoshi is of the opinion, says the
TIMES, that the solution of bettering relations with China
lies in improving and smoothing out economic relations
between the two countries. China needs money badly. Thore
are foreign financiers that are interested in making loa
to China, but he fears that because of the chaotic politi
and economic situation within the country, aggravated by
lack of good police control, there would be the same diffi
culty of repaying the loans as there has been in the case
of the many Japanese loans, still unpaid.
After his conference with the Foreign Office, Mr.
Ariyoshi returned to China with certain definite instrue-
tions. His aim is to try to improve relations with China
and the press admits that his task is a difficult one.
t

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.93)
lgth statement of Japmpes Chim
In alleying the Hankins Govarampneta re
Sill contaikrte to hmis spccesm lm aettl
mattere. The aditorial believes that
firat try to tonvinoe the Chineme lea
for them to stand on their own feet, so
internal financial and economic conditiome
customary help from outside. Of course he will
allow that some help from Japan 1s indicatedb
greater.interest.
Mr. Ariyoshi's instructions to try to have the
and postal services in Northern China improved, to.
a lowering of China's high import tariff, which has mmt
creased revenues, and to work for some seadjuent am
settlement of China's large outstanding loans qwed tq J
were reported by the NICHI NICHI of May 2Bra to be bawed
on the following policy points:
1. Japan is ready to extend all assistance possibl
to China if it will abandon the policy of pitting one count
against another and will not deal with third countrios im
its economic rehabilitation campaigu, and protided it ill
deal with Japan alone or with an international groun in
hinh

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.96)
whioh Japan has a maj
In view of
from the League Japan capmot
eckless" poliey of thipa countries-- axol
or the League assisting China in economde or
fields.
3. Regarding the specifie problems between
countries such as tariff revision, readjustment of aebt
and solution of the through train and through postal
services, Japan will respond to China's proposals t
gotiate provided China sincerely intends to concludo an
agreement.
4. Japan may not always wait for China's initiativo,
but may make proposals to China from the mutual interest
standpoint. Japan will maintain a fair and just attitul
toward all problems, and if China responds with sineere
good will then Japan will consent to open diplomatie nego-
tiations looking toward solving the problems one by one.
If China adopts an unfriendly attitude as heretofore, Japan
will give up negotiations immediately and wait without anger
until such time as China reconsiders its attitude. If the
wait results in improving relations Japan will not mind.
5. If China fails to recognize Japán's position as a
power responsible for the maintenance of peace in the Orient,
and invites third powers' political and economic aid, and
pursues a policy calculated to disturb the prosperity and
maintenance of peace and order in the East, Japan ll info
China that it will not hesitate to take the most errective
moasures

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
Japes probl r stimuiati
Chime has now been made more difrieuls with the
organfzation of the Grand-Anti-Japanese Umion in
It is composed chiefly of students from the Wasme
tary Aeademy, the Anti-Japanese Blood and Iron Party
six other groups and its aim is to interfere with
to settle issues between Japan, "Manchukuo" and Chima
affect Northern China. Students in Hankow and Kwantung 
supposed to support the new organization. In spite of its
manifest purpose, some observers believe that the new soctety
really represents an anti-China movement, headed by the
wife of former Dr. Sun Yat-Sen, while still others opine that
it is fundamentally an anti-communist defense move. At any
rate it is another discordant note in the political chorus
of China, and is not calculated to ease Mr. Ariyoshi's task.
There were no outstanding developments during the month
with regard to further action concerning the Japanese statement
of China policy.* While the leading nations have voiced pro-
tests of varying degree, expressing their hopes that Japan
will not violate any of the existing China treaties, the
Foreign Office has merely reiterated its stand, elaborating
upon certain points. It is believed that no further state-
ment will be issued for the present. The Foreign Minister
took occasion at the convention of Prefectural Governors
to explain Japan's policy toward China, and while he stood
firm on all the previous utterances, he attempted to shew
why no other nations should be offended and how Japan had no
* Embassy despatch No. 792 of May 18, 1934.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
rs, but that it could not sit 1dkt
fa third country ca
With probable reference to the suggestiom
of the Nine Power featy, Mr. Mirota stated
at the convention: We have no bjection
exchanging views if necessary with each in
regarding treaty rights and interests but in
fact that on questions of East Asia our viewé
by the Powers in the meeting at Geneva of the League of
Nations which forced our decision to withdraw from the
League, it would surely be unwise to reproduce a situati
such as was engountered at the League meeting.
There is a great deal of newspaper comment upom
Japan's objection to foreign aid to Chima, and regarding
what constitutes detrimental aid, what might be termed
military assistance and why on the sole basis of its statp
ment of policy, Japan can object to proper financial aid.
Japan is reported to be railing against foreign firms
selling airplanes, guns and other military supplies
to China, and one paper comments that in these days it is
very difficult to say whether a given commodity could not
always be termed of military value. According to the press,
the Powers agreed not to sell arms to China and to refrain
from dumping obsolete war materials there, but they did
not agree not to sell articles that have a perfectly good
civilian use. Japan naturally does not want China to go
further into debt, as it would diminish Japan' chantes
of

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
the larsest share in the cousortium,
moo to resonsider. according to the as
aricers views on third party loans to China
Iows: "Japan ia cwavinced that the most
for China to take is to lay domm a sound fiñen
fram by arranging for a redemption of her dobt
thorough financial readjustment, For the Fowe
tempt to aid China financially or economieally 
existing circumstances tends only to defer China's
cation, integrity and prosperity. It even threatem
pave the way for the creation of spheres of intlnemee
and the international control of Chima." The Can
commenting upon the foregoing sees no basis foz the
ment in either Mr. Monnet's financial plan or in the
able work in China under Dr. Rajchman. His teehnteal
port has been a good influence and shows that Chine 
learned something of self development. Further, it ed
tinues, there seems to be no reason against additiodal
loans to China for fear of further indebtednass. as le

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
9 and 14 ené the Bov
Fqreign Minister sevarhl times d
the menth to disouss tais and
mente of Goviet Embaser ofriczals
with members
réal progrossk* has béen made altim
aials remarked that the "Manch
coming more reasonable. Mr. Youreneff indicated
Ambassador that the 1ssue was squtrely up to
On May 18 it was reported from Manchbuti that Batict
cials of the Chinese Restern Railway ware being eulld
Moscow for a conference which is to formulate  
in regard to the road. It is said that last
abnormal conditions, the Soviet share of the railre
fits amounted to 7 million rubles.
Although the vernacular press has Yommrks
continued deadlook of the negotiations at interval
out the month, the tenor of its remarks has bemn
It seems apparent that the Government is mow
influence to avoid inflaming public opimion owe
Embassy's telegram No. 85, May 1, S p.. ad
dential despatch No. 761, May 3, l0s4
Embassy's despasch No. 793 of May 18, ahd No.
June 1, 1984.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
Rown, Batween May 14 and the
rts heve atated that four smch
ww, sus, d the w, were
ßs or shore guards, allegedly with
Bovists contend that these ships were phot
tiema along the Siberian shore: Although simmlm
have caused a storm of protest at various timsm;
incidents were not widely publicized and, up to the
month, did not appear serious. Similarly the repdett
several shots struck the Japanese Consulate at Habaroyht
May 20 was not allowed to exacerbate anti-Bovlet
Japan. It. is significant that on May 25 the Foreigi Off
spokesman talked at some length to the foreign proew cor
respondents concerning the "cruel and not honest" pedicy
of repression against the Japanese in Siberia but did at
make the same statements to the Japanese correspondents.
Almost a year ago the Japanese seized a Soviet fishns
vessel, the PESHIkOFF, and the Soviets imprimoned a Mr. Yas
zaki, captain of the Japanese fishing veesel KOTOBIRA MAHI
which was detained for a time at Petropavlovsk. On May
after extended negotiations, it was annotnced that Mr. Te
zaki had been released and that the PESHikorF would be binded

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
46
-21-
over to the Soviet authorities at Hakodats.
It has for some time been the contention of the J
nese that the auctioning of fishing lots and the eik
rate problem should be regarded as two separate mattors.
On May 1l the Soviet Ambassador informed the Foreim Minia
ter that his government had agreed to negotiate those
of the problem separately and had consented to the furthe
contention that when negotiations were resumed they should
not be "negotiations for advancing the existing rato" but
"negotiations for the revision of the present ratew. The
first phase of the problem was apparently concluded on ay
at Vladivostok when an auction resulted in the Japanese ob-
taining concessions in 42 districts, thereby raising the total
of lots under lease to the Japanese to 386 as compared with
367 operated by Soviet interests. The second phase of the
problem will be negotiated in Moscow according to the Soviet
Ambassador who indicated clearly to the Ambassador that the
negotiations would be for a rate more favorable to the USSR.
It is, however, more than probable that these negotiations
will be difficult and protracted.
EE
Rumors Concerning Mongolia.
There has been a gradual increase in the number of re-
ports in the vernacular press concerning Soviet activities in
Mongolia. Trese reports have narrated the supposed activities
of Soviet agents in Chahar and along the Peiping-Suiyan rail-
way, have dwelt on the militarization of Outer Mongolia par-
ticularly in the neighborhood of Urga, and have outlined
an

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.92)
roads and establisn wited
Is wosme likely, that thode
 of pharper riwalry between the iso
Japanese for control or the hintedlam
chukuo". In this connection it may be or intare
note that the Soviet foreign trade figurda for 1ga
published in Tokyo on May s0, indicated thad 
trade with Mongolia and Sinkiang was consider
than three times the trade wolume with China prop
Japan combined. If these statisties are correct.
siguificance of the rising trade between the ussh and
inner Asia must of course be apparent to the Japanest
Eera1.
Soviet-Japanese relations seem to have undergone
no material change during May. It is evident that the Bovl
are maintaining on the whole their firm attitude in dealing
with the Japanese and that the Japanese are anxious to aroid
serious trouble with the Soviets at the present time. In
experienced observer, a former military officer, returned
from "Manchukuo" early in May with the news that, after visitin
all brigade and division headquarters, he had nowhere note
any activity which could be construed as indication of any
thing more extensive than peace-time police duty. In
10120

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.96)
the Tac
his country
WE
Matherlands Indlas- Ferthcomlak
Many conferences were held among exporter
2504.9431
and Government officials during the month to lmy
the forthcoming trade parley with the Netherlandy Ia
Government at Batavia. The Netherlands Indies! impos
restrictions, which apply principally to Japanoso go
have not yet been put into effect because of the reqo
of the Japanese to suspend any action pending the trad
conference. However, the firm stand taken by the Netherlands
Indies Government, which insists that the unfavorable belawo
trade with Japan must be to some degree corrected, had eaus
no little anxiety to Japanese exporters and to the 7.000
Japanese importers and merchants in Java. From Batavia has
come the news that if Japan does not volunteer to limit ita
exports to the Netherlands Indies, that Government will imm
import restrictions providing that only some 15 percent of
all imports may enter from Japan and China. Later informatig
appearing

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.94)
mty ps thrty mill
Jare-amounting to 2 15中
19an and 195s of imports and axps
lands Indies took Japanese goodm
sending to Japan only Y 40,550,000 1z21
the totals were X 157,000,000 of imports as
55,710,000 of exports to Japan
Dr. Haruichi Nagaoka, who heads the Japanesy
to Batavia, stated his belief that his task of
some agreement with the Netherlands Indies Government
be even harder than that of the missibms to the Londom or
Indian conferences. The Dutch Government insista upo ad-
justing its trade balance with Japan. The Foreim Orfic
here and Japanese trade organizations are convinced, accord
ing to the press, that Japan must take more of the Indtes!
production of petroleum, sugar or rubber-- the chief imports.
But, says the CHRONICLE, business men agree that very littI
more rubber or petroleum can be consumed, and consequently,
some means will have to be found to use more sugar, although
the refineries are already filled to capacity, and the prin-
cipal market for refined sugar- China - can only absorb
greater quantities if the price is lowered. Batavia's first
suggestion was that Japan should import 500,000 tons of ugar,
then later that 300,000 tons might be sufficient. Even so,
thgt

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
hes are overslowing and produe
meial straits; the Indies
Laed by Japanese cotton and rayon textile
mont or Butch and other manufaeturtrs, th
are reported to be convinced now that Jeva
and that something must be done about is and
endeavoring seriously to find a solution withou
curtailing their exports, or sacrificing the su
One of the repercussions in Japan to the firm
taken in the Netherlands Indies was a resolution passe
the Meirinkai, well-known reactionary organization of er
and navy officers, to sever diplomatic relations with
Netherlands in the event the trade conference fails
delegation from that gody even called upon the Netherland
Minister in Tokyo to tender a protest*.
Mr. Nagaoka's instructions from the Cabinet and Trade
Council are reported to be: (1) On express condition that
the Netherlands Indies Government withdraws all restrietaoms
against imports of Japanese articles, Japan will endeavor
to increase its imports from the Netherlands Indios for
certain fixed period. (2) Future import quotas for Japepes
* Embassy's Confidential despatch No. 786 of May 17.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.93)
apanteeing the busimes
in tistence
all be exeluded from the agende of the Qq
lart to the existing pool. (4) Any new trade
shall be arranged for a short period of ralidity
Mr. Nagaoka, says the CRONICLE, has a very d
task, aggravated by the firm and unyielding attisud
by both countries. His purpose is two fold: to f
markets for Japanese goods and to protect the livelinond
of the many Japanese residents in the Netherlanda Indi
He and his party sailed for Batavla May 24th. They
saheduled to arrive on June 3rd, and the conference 11 op
on June 6th.
UNE.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.94)
of expressing Amatralia
aite various rumors of negotiatiems Ioc
Jecial treaty. However, in denging the
Mr. Latham stated that a trade agreement was
in Australia with the Japanese Conaii, Generd
are extremely anxions to remedy their adver
which is approximately one to four fgwumits Austr
conclusion of some agreement embracing tariff cone
byAustralia.
Mr. Latham is reported as bringing up the mattat
alleged fortifications in the Japanese Mandated Islands, in
discussion with Mr. Hirota, the Foreign Minister. Me.
1s said to have assured him that these allegations were
correct, and that Japan was building no fortifiemtipna
ever, the Embassy is informed that Mr. Latham was not watis
fied with the assurance, and pressed Mr. Hirota for a definit
public statement that the islands have not been and will not
be fortified.
ST.
*Embassy's despatch No. 806 of May 51, 1884.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.93)
oy24th.
1mas
Brazil as the most favorable
ai of the surplus populatión of this toumt
the measare came as a blow. Mot only will
trants be restricted to about 3,500 ainmalls by
pmese shipping lines and oversées developlient
 depending on the emigrant trafric wiil be serio
affected.
Japanese feel that this country has been betrayed
Brazil, even though no legitimate cause for protest
The Brazilians measure is in form non-discriminatory, ait
actually Japan is most affected. The press expresses chagrt
rather than indignation, and seems inclined to blame foroign
influences, hotably that of the United States, for the
action of the Braxilian Assembly.
WTT.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.95)
on thaheelo
phe agreement over eotton textilees whick
tmonths to negotiate, came th
Itmr Hunciman in the House of Commons to
in arper to protect British manufacturers in
Wainst the lower-priced Japanese goods, the Mondom
farence having utterly failed, it would become noces
to impose quota restrictions on impertations of Japan
goods, mostly textiles, into Britain and its coloniesy to
be offective May 7th. For the United Kingdom,silk is ta
be restricted, and for the colonies, cotton.
While there
was some attempt here to minimize the importance of thmbe
restrictions, in view of the trade agreements with other
divisions of the British Empire, and becaus successive in
creases in duties have already greatly diminished trade with
most of the colonies except West Africa, yet the press re
ports that the Government and exporters are seriously con-
cerned by the sudden British move, and not a little af-
fronted. There are mentioned fears of violation of most-
favored nation clauses in treaties, and talks of reprisals.
Now that the Japanese Government has a trade protection law,
there are many that advocate placing as heavy restrictions
as are possible on British imports as a retaliatory measure.
According to the ASAHI, the Foreign Minister instructed
Ambassador Matsudaira in London to present a protest to the
British

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.97)
(S) Aa there is a fear er deplozabls
vent of the seepe ox the import
special eircumspection in this regard:
(a) The Years 1987 to 1931 being the
Japan's exports were smallest, due to th
and the Manchurlan affair, the aotton sak
British Government in basing the Imports q
aterage of the exports durins this period
garded as discriminatory against Japanese good
substance, though the measure is nominally of
application. The Japanese Government rogretsto
to look upom it as an unfriendly act irreconeilabl
withthe spirit of the most-favoured-nation treatmem
provided for in the Anglo-Japanese treaty
(5) If the import quotas were devised by the British
Government from the motive of protecting domestio in
dustry, it is difficult to understand why it did not
remainder of the imports, adopt a system of free u
1n the spirit of equal treatment for all countmius.
as to leave room for competition. The Japaneso Gov
ment finds the action taken by the British Goyernment
to be incomprehensible.
Under the foregoing circumstances the Japanese Government
cannot, according to the ASanI, but be displeased with the
British action as greatly regrettable, in view of the friendly
relatlons between Japan and Britain, but has the fundament
policy to solve the issue on the basis of the spirit of ro
ciprocity as much as the ciroumstances will permit. unde
present conditions the Government is determined to watch
further the attitude of the British Government for some tin

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.94)
atiobof tha iti
ingtoe will tour Latin Ameriea,
Cor tutare commendial agreements.
As the JraI sHluPo of May l0th suggest
exists mor a rather delieate triangular situm
Japan, Britain and Australia. Australian-Je
1s conceded to be of utmost mutual advanta
not to become involved in any anti-British feelin
might arise as a result of what may become a real Anthow
Japanese trade war, Australia sent one of her most pr
statesmen here to solidify friendship and strongthen
trade relations. Britain cannot entirely disregard 
position of Australia, and has been only as severe
necessary to satisfy internal opinion, at the same tim
allowing Mr. Latham's visit in the hope of making use
of any favorable agreements he might make, in later
conferences with Japan, Then,too, because of the intimate
trade relations between Australia and Netherlands Indiemy
the Hirota-Latham conversations might have seme influenoe
upon the forthcoming trade parley at Batavim. The Japanose
press believes that both Japan and Great Britain shonld
proceed cautiously in their trade confliet, as both have
much to lose. and as much to gain.
NH.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
Adresaed
ah streeogmized the now"
Manchukuoan" Legation made publio thi
sy 21 and the Japanese press comsequentl
alation over the action taken by ml Salvadoy
to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of May 24, the SaIwa
Gemeral in Tokyo 1ssued the following stht
to news despatches from Geneva contaiming criticism
El Salvador's action by the League of Nations:
"The recognition of governments ia smbodi
Constitution as one of the attributes of the exees
power. This principle is part of the country's sovere
ty and cannot be superseded, ignored, nor pledged by
any treaty or convention.  The recognition of Manchukno
is in its place, therefore, as far as we are coneern
"The bureaucracy of the League of Nations, enccuraged
by the personal vanity of some of the repreasntatives
of other countries accredited therete, maintains n un
due and prejudiced opinion of our attitudo.
"In collective bodies, it is either a vigorous per-
sonality or an interested country which impose themselves
(sic) over the bureaucracy, or it is the latter ftselr
which assumes the leadership.
"I am amused at this news from Geneva about our having
been bound to the League in the matter of rocoghising
Manchukuo. Our membership in the League cannot possibly
deprive us from exercising acts which emanate from our
sovereignty."
With reference to the confidential paragraph of the
Embassy's despatch No. 8ll of June lst, the Latin American
diplomat
* Embassy's despatoh No. 811 of June 1, 1934
telegram No. 97 of May £2, 3p.m.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
feakp of thais own prastige, mighe
the Ieague should that body expel a1 Salt
midst as a punishment for its recdgmitioh of
The Balgian Special Miasion to Jaban
The Special Mission sent by Belgiun to
Formally to Emperor Hirohito the accession of Leopold
to the Belgian throne arrived at Yokohama on my Sl
The Mission was headed by Mr. William Thys, Vice Premidem
of the Bank of Brussels.
GDA
* Embassy's despatch No. 829 of June 14, 1934.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.93)
mdpoltciasformed un
eproving eouoational, rina
throughout the Eapires The press con
mier's welcoming apeech waa wainspirings
these troublous times it was difridult to ma
proppecies'or derinite stabememta regarding
speech contained nothing new, but was an opportunit
rehash what the Government had been trying to do
appeal for cooperation to the Governments. Parmap
the most interesting part of the Premier's
emphatic admonition to bring under control the irrme
and too progressive rightist elements that cometantls
menace the welfare of society. He instracted the Gave
not to be misled by the attractive name of patriotis
according to the MAINICHI of May 8th, in tases of 11lagel
movements calculated to disturb the public order, bat t
apply relentless measures of control. The Fintice Mh
discussed provincial finance in detall, emphamizing
for provincial autonomy, instead of fostering the tan

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.94)
party to distarb the frrendia
né China; that being Japan's convigt
ed a often as is nonedsary.
was willing to exchange views with eadk
on rights and treaties is oonsidered signifs
tioned nothing of Japan's probable attidude to
action of the Powers in exchanging views.
2. The Kuroda Scandal Threatens Cabimet!a
As a culmination of the vague whtspevinse in
press of late about a "serious afrairn, dame'th
874.002
indictmont of Vice-Minister of Finance Hideo Kns
four other high officials of the Ministry*s.
took place on May I9th, and the Minister of Justice
investigating all the charges. The trial will not be held
for some weeks yet, but meantime many political prog
tions are being bandied about. The first rumor mo
* See despatch No. 792 of May 18; 1934.
* Embassy s telogram No. 96 of May 21, 4 p.ma

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.93)
resard the publdo 1s und
as having failed. The Premier, howeter
hesh1 mot to resign for the time, mad at le
findinga of the court, as his Vice-ministar mad
bmen acoused. At the close of the month the ai
more or less the same: the Cabimet might ramish
it might remain another month or two, or Premier Saitn
be asked to form a new Cabinet-- in which the prosa' beli
both Mr. Hirota and General Hayashi would be ineluded.
is thought to be a fair guess that the Cabinet will not
before the end of June, and perhaps not sven until the
session of the Diet in December. Of course, ms the Nini
states, if the situation becomes too aggravated and the
loze entire confidence in the Cabinet, the Premier pas
his willingness to resign. However, the NICHI NICHIcont
the Cabinet will not resign even in the event that r
Takahashi should resign as a gesture of assumption or
sibility for the scandal. It is said that the Gn

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
d po11ties in 
inion that the Cabinet will fall 
here were a strong and populer
the presa observes, it would probably havo fall
the mounting Feverses it has suffered' mut the
standing "man of the hourn has undoubtedly inrlu
Baito in his decision to remain for a time. Mest
and newspapers appear to agree that there are two logh
didates: *General Kazunari Ugaki, Governor-General of
and Count Keigo Kiyoura, former Premier and well-kmomm
The General is understood not to be pro-militaryy and cax
considered on the same basis as a civilian. Although the
of May 28th avers that Count Kiyoura is probably the
candidate, other press reports and opinion in Army and Mavy
circles seem to indicate that General Ugaki has the botter
although it is rumored that he is supposed not to be popul
with the Army, and his possible candidature has caused the.
resignation of a high official of the Navy Department ( mee Be)
Both the General and the Count have announced to the press
that they will "happen" to be in Tokyo around the first of
June on business and pleasure. Each has inferred that whilo
ready to answer the call of patriotism and do aaything in his
power for his country
Embassy's despatch No. 814 of June 1, 1934.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
to control the Prsmiership, ar
whose aims are not inimical to the
Seiyukai, strongest party of the Lower Heuse.
candidecy of its President, Dr. Kisaburo
the appointment of either the General or the Cougt:which
result in the breakup of the party, because
the Seiyukai which has declared for General Ugaki.
the Upper House Kenkyukai panty, most of the Minseito par
a bloc in the minority Kokumin Domei party are reported to
General Ugaki for the Premiership. At the same time, It is
mored that much of General Ugaki's political support,realisim
that their own favorites have no chance at the moment, are reatr
to swing to Count Kiyoura at such time as his prospects seem to
be brighter than those of the General. Political parties are
not popular with the public these days, and their leaders recogmiz
that the next Premier will doubtless be a non-party man. Barm
Kiichiro Hiranuma, Vice-President of the Privy Council. was a
possible candidate, but his popularity appears to have waned
with the appointment of Baron Kitoburo Ikki as President of that
body (see below) although Baron Hiranuma was next in line. Count
Kiyoura has the support of a section of the Kenkyukai, Toaders
of the Koseikai, and individuals members of the Seiyukaf and
Kokinin

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
I thinks that Whe Genro will be
trim his new post ss President of the Priey
tomplitations develop and his candidacy is
Dr. Surukl, head of the Seiyukai party, has
 candidate to pepresent a coalition of his par
Mimseito party. But he is not popular outsidd
and his chances at this time are considered smmli
observers.
MID
(b) Army
1. Attitude Toward Political Situation.
In accordance with the announced policy of a
Minister Hayashi the Army is maintaining a calm attrtide
the precarious Cabinet situation, and the ASAHI of May
states that no opposition will be offered to any suacesspr
Premier Saito. AIthough the NICHI NICHI of May 26th says tha
the anti-Ugaki sentiment still persists in Army ciroles, and
that the Army much prefers that the Saito Cabinet continue, the
Minister is quoted as observing that what opposition to Gener
Ugaki has been heard does not represent Army opinion as  ihol
The Army's principal concern, it is understood, 1s that an
new Government carry forward preparations for the 1935-36
"crisis", continuing the present "continental policy a
improving

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.94)
Army officers, is due te ret
by Gmnorai Jiro, Minami who
Miniater General Sedao
artiole continues that both Gener
bshiyuki Kawashima, commandera resp
nd Korean garrisons, wi1l be appointed
Military Coumcil, and may be sucoaeded by Lt Gi
kichi Ueda, Assiatant Chief of the General Staff, and
Juiohi Terauchi, commander of the Fourth Divipion. Lt
Heisuke Yanagawa, Vice-Minister of War, is likely to hd
divisional commander, and his successor will doubtles
chosen from among Lt. Generals Furuso, Tatekewa, Takamih
President of the Military College, and Toranosuk Wa
Chief of the General Affairs Department of the General Sber
(c) Navy
1. Rear Admiral Sakano's Statement.*
During the discussion of General Ugaki's candida
for the Premiership, Rear Admiral Sakano, Navy 'spokosman
the statement that " the Navy as a whole is not necewear
Embassy's despatch No. 814 of Jume 1,19

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
Navy'ewarning
itidal utterances.
no kill be asked to resign his péet 
digcipline exists in the Navy.
ONel more Naval Air Bases.
The press reports that in considerati
mace from the strong Soviet air force, and in
th its first and second replenishment plans
mas decided to add five new air bases, one at Meix
the Japan Ses, one at Kisarazu, Chiba Prefesture neatto
one in the neighborhood of Kogan, Nemuro, Hokkaido, cme 
Kagoshima in Kyushu, and one at Chinkai in Korea. Tho need
to have more air control over the Japan Sea has long been 
and these new bases are calculated to fulfill that purpose.
In preparation for the anticipated international "Cris
of 1935-36, the Navy has decided to change the Vice-Minister.
the Commander of the Kure Naval Base and the Director of Na
construction, according to the NICHI NICHI of May 8th O
account of the recent TOMOZURU disaster, it has been thought
advisable to appoint a full Admiral to the post of maval
Construction Director, because of the heavier responsibility
He is Admiral Ryozo Nakamura, now Commander of the Kure Nav
Base. Other changes reported by the NICHI NICHI are: Vice
Adm1ra1

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
Dirstter of the
Birgoton of the Pael Depoty tò be
School; and Rear-admiral Masayu
 agientific laboratory of the Teohnigal Insti
Direstor of the Fuel Depot..
(a) Privy Counc11
On May 3 Baron Yuzaburo Kuratomi resigmedgh
Presidency of the Privy Council on account af age end All
health, and Baron Kitokuro Ikki, former member of the Pi
Council, Cabinet Minister, and Minister of the Im
Household, was appointed to fill this important po
precedent that the Vice-President of the Privy Council
should succeed to the Presidency upon the resignation or
death of the President of this body was not obseryed in
case. It is thought that the reason for this breach or
tradition was that the Vice President of the Privy Coundil
Baron Hiranuma, was considered so reactionary that hs weg
be on obstacle in the path of moderation which is now bein
followed by the present Saito Government.
GDA
* Embassy's despatch No. 776 or May 5, 19Z4.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.93)
aing topra
ofrinnoeWdeh
eation of Clearing Houses th om
Government was contedplating the
at adme future date but that caze
choosing the right moment for such an Imcrebae
opting the proper methods to seoure a falres
of the buden or taxation. Mr. Takahashi is
to have said in this connection that the Govene
intention of restoring an equilibrium between
and expenditures at the present time for the
this would be impossible in view of ineremsed
tures abroad and the disturbed conditions prevailing 
home. This hesitancy to increase taxes in the near fut
indicates a change of policy on the part of the tster
of Finance, who had until recently been inolining towerd
increase of taxes for the next fiscal year. It is underatoou
however, that the permanent officials of the Finemee Minise
try are in favor of increasing taxes in order to deerease
the budget deficit. Hence, the policy of higher taxation
might possibly prevail should Mr. Takahaghi feel foroed
to resign as a result of the Kuroda seandal.*
(0)
* See Section III, Iaternal Political Arfairs.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.91)
adontion of
that there had aire
had contribated largely toward the
that was taking place.
(e) Interest Taken by the Miniatry
theo Proponsdunata atatos aror
The Ministry of Finance is maniresting da
Jnterest in the proposed new silver legislatitm in
States. The Vice Governor of the Bank of Japan,
is reported to have said that, if the bill now before
gress should be enacted into law, such logislation would
have little real effect in Japan.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.94)
6,70m.000 for apell
dasreased' from E mo,851, 60o 1
(about $8, 40s, 400). Export and 1
rease.of 17.9% ana 21.0%, respeatively.
Figures for exports of rapon textiles in
of May show an all time high record. These ex
9,912,000 (approximately $2,973,600),
¥1,884,000 over Apr11, 1954.
(b) Farming Problems.
1. Fertilizers.
Farming groups have been requesting a specim)
session of the Diet for the passage of legislatiom to
regulate the supply and demand and to control the price
of artificial fertilizere. This matter is importent on
accoubt of the large quantity of artificial fertilizers
consumed in Japan, the value of which each year, on the
average, is over ¥ 300,000,000 (about 100,000,000)
¥ 120,000,000 ($36,000,000) of th1s amount represent1n
imports. In this connection, it may be stated that the
Department of Agriculture and Forestry, on account of the
growing demand for sulphate of ammonia, has decided to order
the Sulphate of Ammonia Distribution Association to make
an immediate importation of 50,000 metric tons of this
fertilizer.
2. Silk Cocoona.
The silk cocoon producers have urged a special
seasion

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.96)
logisiation.
on apegiei sersion
latior. This newspaper Purther states
sident of the Beiyukai, told a Renga carl
special session of the Diet is not held for
mentioned purpose, his party would ask for the
the Government. The ASAHI of May l4th contains
recommending the establishment of a Govertiment ricm
while The JAPAN TIMEs of May 24 remarks that altmout)
Government monopoly might serve to prevent unmeceasary 
tion of the market price of rice, it would not solve the.
of the existing surplus. The latter newspaper points out
that the Government has done everything possible to incroe
the supply and quality of rice, which is the main staple
of the country; that the result has been overproduction and
a surplus of 17 million koku (about 55 million bushols)
for the present season; and that a surplus naturally results
in a lower price, which brings about great hardship for
the farming population of 27 millions. The editorial
concludes with the following words: "While statesmen and
publicists are worrying over the problem, it is the farmers
who are faced with the tragic question of how to live.
Poverty they face in abundance, and it cannot be expected
that

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
wal with for
mese rice as oompared with other.
exportatiom of Japam's surplus rioe,
unless this commodity is simply dumped on to
The lower price of Japanese rice reaulting fro
mumlation of a surplus combined with the dep
the yen hes not served to make feasible the
this commodity.
(0) heat. Agri culbure
Reference is made to the monthly report for
in which mention was made of the total planted are 
wheat for the year l934, according to the figures im
the All-Japan Coroperative Purchase Association. The Do
ment of Agriculture and Forestry now forecasts that wheat
production in 1934 wi11 amount to 40,000,000 bushels, an
increase of 12% over the 1933 prodüction.
(d) Petroloum. Commerce
m13
The Rumanian Chargé d'Affaires 1s reported by the
NICHI NICHI SHIMBUN of May 26 to have called on the
Minister of Commerce and Industry and to have made the pro-
posal that Japan buy petroleum from Rumania. According 
this newspaper, the Minister of Commerce and Industry ordered
the Mining Bureau of his Ministry to investigate petroleum
conditions

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.93)
 so-called gasoline mar bet
the one. aind and Amarican (standara
 Britimh (Rising Bun Petroleum Compepy).
on the other hand had not been settled at the
month. It is understood that the six aom
the Soviet interests 1n the latter's attempt to
offered a quota to the Soviet coneerns 
(e) Ehe Automobile Industry. Cohanle
According to the YOMIURI SHIMBUm of Way 
4.297
proposed co-operation between the General Motere of Jap
and the Japan Industry Company has been blocked by the
opposition of the Army. The tentative agreement which
had been concluded provided that the Japan Industby Com
would pay ¥ 4,000,000 to buy half the shares of th Gener
Motors of Japan,Ltd., capitalized at ¥ 8,000,000, in returp
for which the General Motors would buy automobile parts
to be produced by the Automobile Manufacturing Company
which was recently organized by the Japan Industry Compam
Apparently the Army intervened on the ground that sugh an
agreement would impede the efforts of the Ministry of Comime
and Industry to establish the automobile industry in Japan
undir

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
informed by tha
Motors Japan, Ltd., that an
dastry, Company had been reached,
for the purohase of shares had been exee
of the purchase price had been depesitad im
opposition of the Army caused a postponehsnt of the
scheme.
(f) Financial Trends.
During May, general business conditions remaine
unchanged; the general tone of the stock market as firm
although toward the end of the month the stock market was
somewhat disturbed by the scandal in the Department of inene
and the resultant feeling of the imminence of a cabinet crisis
trading was cautious at the end of the month on account of
disturbed political conditions; the yen weakened slightly
there was an accentuated tendency toward cheaper money;
and the Bank of Japan wholesale price index showed only
slight decrease (.4%) from April.
GDA.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
LABOR AND IMNTGRATION:
Nothing to repert.
MISCELLANBOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.92)
o11 d
Lccouate & Returne,
Frinee Wonoye's vimlx so the
completion of the B.s.S. c
160
Laying of keels of .a..
Diplomatic vise repert.
769
770
Expeditious handling of Gqvernmeet
771
4,
Japenese statement of polidy todard @his
772
4
80th Anniversary of first Jepame
773
5,
Address made by the Ambassador.
774
* 5,
World's Fair Onicago.
ass1stamoe
775
3,
Report on private and gevernmental
to export trade of dmpan.
776
5
Appointment or Baren Ikki as Fresident of the
Privy Council.
777
10,
Mr. Allison's Gonsuler Regulations.
778
 10,
Loans made by Japan to Buropean mations.
779
36
Letivities of A. and M. von Siataky
780
17,
Japenese-Perutian rolations.
781
16,
Japanewe floating canneries in Berins Sem
Int. Petroloum Rposition et Palam, U.S.A.
16,

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.92)
Administrastre
Repkisn to wateho
1
18, Dolayed reosipt of
18.
pamese poliey
18,Soviet-Japanese rala
Completion er the U.S.. 
ship inspectore.
19,
Fromation of Mr. Dunoan J. Laimg
797
19,
Supplement of THE JAPAN ADVATI
Perry Treaty etc.
798
22
Society for International cultural melal
799
85,
Birth and name of Japanese Imperial
800
Diplomatio visa repert.
801
28,
Ambessador's address at sdison Mamum
802
88,
JAPAN-MANCHUKUO YEARBOOK TOr 
805
31,
Japanese interest in Venezuelan oil conoses
804
31,
Error in telegraphia tranamission re Fomamus
RELATIONS OF THE US.
805 31,
Narcoties Convention of 1931.
Australian Eastern Mission to Japan.
806
807
51,
Treaty between the U.S. ene. cuba
800
30,
Embassy heat-ruel allotmant; cherems
51,
Embassy aceounte - exglenation of o

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 3, 1934.
ROT：
Tokyo's political report for the month
of June is, I believe, the longest monthly
report I have ever seen. Most of the sections
of direct interest to this Division consist
of repetitions of previous reports. The
following sections contain new material and
might be read to advantage:
It is reported (page 3) that Hirota
will first approach the United States and
later England with a proposal that bilateral
anti-war pacts be concluded between the
three nations concerned.
There follows a well-prepared discussion
of the Japanese position in regard to naval
limitation. The statement which strikes me
as being the most important in this section
is that indicating that the Japanese
authorities concerned were having difficulty
in deciding whether the Washington Naval
Treaty should be denounced before the end
of this year or whether any action should
be delayed until after the preliminary
conversations to be held in London are
completed.
Several

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Several pages are devoted to Soviet-
Japanese relations, which have already
been fully described in separate despatches.
There is, however, a section entitled
"Miscellaneous" (page 15) recording several
items that are distinctly interesting
affecting relations between Japan and the
Soviet Union. The first item relates to
the progress made in double tracking the
Trans-Siberian Railway.
One of the best sections in the entire
report is that on "Foreign Arms and Aid to
China" (page 21) and on the opinion of
the Japanese with regard to the general
question of the establishment of an
arms embargo. I suggest that the section
be read in full.
Another section that contains some
new information so far as Tokyo is con-
cerned is the section on the Japan-Nether-
land Indies Commercial Conference now
taking place in Batavia. I have on my
desk at this moment several despatches
from the Consul General at Batavia, but
it is my opinion that this section con-
tains the clearest account that we have
received thus far of what has taken place
in Batavia and how the Japanese view the
1ssues lying between the two countries.
The section

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
The section beginning on page 34 on
the state of Japan's international re-
lations summarizes expression of opinion
by Japanese that although Mr. Hirota has
made some progress here and there toward
improving relations, public confidence
in the ability of the previous Government
to improve international relations has
gone.
FEEBHD/DLY
894:00 P.R./79

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
NITED STATES OF AMERICA
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT DkDTEJuly 2, 1934.
No. 869.
934 JUL 23 AM 11 57
23
Subject:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
During the Month of June, 1934.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Til
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
IREATY UVISION
JUL 25 1934
SEP 4 - 1934
ETC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00 P.R./79
No
USA.
OFILE
bN+
MID
StatA
TheSecretary
L ommerce
Washington.
56B
111
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
1/
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for
the month of June, 1934.
S
Respectfully yours,
FILI
BL.
39
Enclosure:
Report No. 93
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
n
n Consulate General, Shanghai.
n Consulate General, Mukden.
F/ESP
n
n
" Consulate General, Harbin.
n
n Consulate, Dairen.
In triplicate to the Department.
800.Japan.
MNH:GDA:JGP:g

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.94)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1924.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED
(a) Prince Konoye's Visit to the United
(b) Participation of the United States in
Funeral of Admiral Togo.
(c) Rumors Concerning President Roosevelt'a Al-
leged Desire to Meet High Japansse Offiel
at Hawaii for Political Diseussions..
(d) Mr. Hirota's Reported Desire for the Conolu-
sion of Bilateral Anti-War Pacts by Japan,
the United States, and Great Britain.
(e) The Naval Question.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) "Manchukuo"
1. The Question of Recognition.
2. Statements by Japanese Ofricials Relating
to "Manchukuo"
7,8
3. Prince Chichibu's State Visit to "Manchukmo" 8,9
4. General Economic and Financial Conditions
And Foreign Trade
.9,10
5. No Agreement Reached on the Proposed Re-
organization of the South Manchuria Railway 10
6. The Proposed Abolition of Japanese Extra-
territoriality Rights in "Manchukuo".....
10,11
7. "Manchukuo" Government to Bear Part of the
Expense of National Defense of that Country 11
8. Air Defense Maneuvers at Dairen and Port
Arthur
11,12
(b) Soviet Japanese Relations
1. Chinese Eastern Railway.
12
2. Border Incidents
13,14
3. Yen-ruble exchange problem and the Fisheries
Dispute
14,15
4. Miscellaneous
15,16,17
(c) China
1. The Kuramoto Disappearance
18,19,20
21
2. Foreign Arms and Aid to China.
21,22,23,
24,25
3. Through Railway Service to Manchuria
.25
4. China's New Bank.
25,26
5. Increased Air Force Alarms Japan.
26,27
(d) Netherlands India--Japan Trade Parley.....27,28,29,30
(e) Great Britain and India
1. New British Ambassador arrives.
30
Japanese View of Britain's Proposed Naval
Expansion
30

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
(z) me Belgian Speoial
(b) Portugal Sends New
(1) International-Diplomacy Mot Sucoemaful
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFPAIRS
(a) Cabinet will Probably Resigm.
(b) Army.
1. Views on Political Situation.
2. Expansion of Army Aviation Plammsa
3. Fall Maneuvers Planned by Manchukuo" Ari
(c) Navy
1. Rear Admiral Sakano Resigns.
2. Naval Reaction to Admiral Pratt's Statement 0
3. Naval Delegate to Preliminary Naval Talks Namod 41
4. Naval Maneuvers Planned.
5. Naval Flight to Saipan Planned.
(a) Political Situation and Political Parties.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to Report
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) The Budget for the Fiscal Year 1935-2936
45,46
(b) Mational Indebtedhess and Government Bonds.
.46,47
(c) Banking
47
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade
48,49,50,
51
(b) Farming Problems
1. Consideration Being Given by the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry to the Industrialization of
the Farming Communities.
51
2. Silk Cocoon Producers.
51,52
3. Fertilizers.
52
(c)4ndustries
1. The Automobile Industry.
52,53
2. Woolen Yarn and Textiles
53
Agreement on Sales of Gasoline Reached between
Soviet Interests and the American, British,Japan-
ese Companies.
53,54
(d) Financial Trends.
54
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERICAL INTERESTS: Nothing to re-
port.
VIIL. ACT VITIE OF FORETGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:Nothing to re-
port.
Labor and Emigration
babor
55
Emigration.
55

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.94)
LATIONB NZTE
Prince Konoze's Visit to't
Barerenpe 1s made to BectionI (u)
Pelitioal Report for May, which haa to
of Frince Fumimaro Konoye's visit to the United
ore was very little published in the Japan
cerning the Prince's visit. Such editorial commn
peared expressed the hope that Prince Konoye's explanati
of Japanese problems to President Roosevelt might uitimat
Lead to a betterment in Japanese-American relatlons.
(b) Participation of the United States in the Funeral
of Admiral Togo.
The Emperor having decreed a state funeral for Admiral
Togo, who died on May 30, the United States Government in-
894.44-T090
structed Admiral Upham, Commander-in-Chief of the Asiatic
Fleet, to attend the funeral.*** Admiral Upham arrived at
Yokohama on June 5 on his flagship "AUGUSTA" and represented
the United States Navy on that day at the funeral, which
was also ttended by high naval officers of Great Britain,
France, Italy and China. The Americ n Anbassador, by the
direction of his Government, represented the person of the
President of the United States at the funeral.**** The
and "Manchukuo"
Chi fs of State of France, raky an Great Britain/sent as
personal
their/representetives to et en tie funeral the Ambassadors
or otner  iplomatic representatives of their respective
countries.
There
*Embaey' t legram Ho. B9 of ay , le4.
 kmbosey's despatet No. 84: of June 1b, 1o24.
*** Department's to legram No. o of June 1, 1o34.
xoxx Leuartr nt's telegram No. Be of June
and Embassy's
116 o June , 14.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
Gnvralzy sung in Japan only at
newspapers and people in seneral
the National Broadcasking Companrts
through ignorance of the partigularm
Acconding to the NICHI NIVI oZ June 
Ministry contemplated reproving either the
casting Company or the Japan Broadeasting
"faux pas" to prevent a similar incident in the
Whether or not there was any truth in the Nioer teh
report, the Navy Departmont seems to have forgotton
incident as far as taking any action is concerned.
(c) Rumors Concerning President Roosevelt's Alleged
Desire to Meet High Japanese Officials at Hawmli
For Political Discussions.
During the first half of the month rumors were ram
pant in the Japanese press to the effect that President
Roosevelt was contemplating inviting leading Japanese
offici ls to Hawaii for an exchange of views at the time
of his visit to the island this summer. Apparently this
story had its beginning in erroneous press reports from
a Japanese correspondent in Washington that at a White
House luncheon on June 8 the President intimated his
wil ingness to hold such conferences at Hawaii. Accord-
ing to the NICHI NICHI of June 12, officials of the
Japanese Foreign vffice were more than willing to ac-
cept

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.95)
Minister himselr
hot averas to letting tne
sluome an invitation to atoe
ih the President of the United Btates
the tatter part of the month, speeulation
matter ceased to appear in the press, probakly
of steps taken by the Japanese Foreign Defice
to the story.**
(a) Mr. Hirota's Reported Desire for the
of Bilateral Anti War Pacts by Japan hs
States, and Great Britain.
According to the Japanese press, the Minister. for
Foreign Affairs is firmly convinced that the mere odmeln
sion of a new disarmament agreement among the naval Power
of the world at next year's conference will not ensure
world peace, and the efore he thinks it advisable for Japan,
Great Britain,and the United St tes to conclude bilateral
anti-war pacts and also to undertake the duty of maintain-
ing peace in the spheres where their positions are predomi
nant. The Japanese newspapers state that Mr. Hirota in-
tends to approtch the United States first with a wiew toward
corrying out is plan.
(e The Naval Question.
The first statement that the Embassy has had from an
official sourc of Japan's policy at the next naval conference
w s reported i the Embassy's telegram No. 132 of June .
It has nov becomequite obvious that Japan will insist upon
the
**pepartm nt
1, Jne lo and Embasry's
telc:ram

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
the atrogation of the présentSs naval
the Untted States and the adoption of a new
Tavorable to Japan. It would appear that the 
will go to any length to attain this end,
to attend the conference should it become apparent
the preliminary conversations that the United State
or Great Britain, or both, will firmly oppose the Jane
ese demand for an increased ratio. During June the
Japanese newspapers were greatly concerned over naval
issues, particularly Japan's demand for the abolishment
of the present ratio as the only means of security in
"national defense". The CHUGAI SHOGYO of June 22 stated
that if the United States and Great Britain should flatly
reject Japan's insistence on the alteration of the 5:5:3
ratio, Japan would be forced to bolt the conference.
This newspaper also asserts that "should circumstances
permit" the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs in-
tends to hold separate conversations with the American
and British Ambassadors to Japan for the purpose of clari-
fying Japan's demand for alteration of the 5:5:3 ratio
an  seeking an understanding with the United States and
Great Britain on this point. The HOK AI TIMES of June
14 professed to belleve that adequate naval armament was
essential as  measure of defense as long as China and
Sovic Russie continued to maintain "their poliey of
threatening preparedness".
Confer nees between the Novy unt War Departments
the une hand and te Foun Opriee on the other have
apparently

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
pparently failed thus far to
on the question as to whother
the Washington Treaty or 19el on Dai
wait and ses i favorable resdlts can
forthcoming conference.*
With regard to the problem as to where
conference should be held, the NICI NICHI
June 17 and June 20 stated that the Japanese ore
to the choice of either London or Washington s
of the conference. Information received from mothe
source, however, would indicate that the site of the con
Forence is immaterial to Japan.**
According to REnGo of June 20, Japanese naval orfi
cials issued an immediate,though not very pertinent, tat
ment in reply to Admiral Pratt's article in FOREIGN ARAI
in which, according to a press despatch from New York, he
states that there are no logical grounds for the Japanese
claim to an incrcased naval ratio and that naval parity
with the United States and Great Britain is not required
for Japan's security. The summary of Japanese naval
opinion, as compiled by RENGo, declares, in answer to Ad-
miral Pratt's contention that Japan has no logical grounds
t demand an increased ratio, that objective conditions
have ch n: since the conclusion of the Washington Naval
Treaty; that military equipment has advanced; and that
Jauan has made great progress. With respect to Admiral
tt's reoorte statement that Japan's claim will not
furtmer t mur oses of peace, the Japanese naval authori-
the JAPA CHRONICLE of June 21 to have
stated
despatchh No. Bas of June 14, 1954.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
and opdssted agai
ateda strdein
to bui1d mare naval
whether the Japanese haval experte conal
one or the "less heavily armed powara"
It may be of interest to note that
formation received by the Embassy, the Japal
thorities would prefer that France not 
next naval conference, since they believe
try is apt to disrupt any conferenee that mimmat
duction in armaments. These authorities realise,
that France, a signatory of the Washington Treaty of 1921
cannot be excluded from the conference.
The HOCHI SHIMBUN of June 22 states that 1t is foared
by the Japanese that the forthcoming return of the Amorlean
fleet to the Pacific will aggravate American-Japanese re
lations and cause an unpleasant situation similar to that
which existed immediately after the "Manchurian Event?
This newspaper attaches significance to the return of the
fleet at a time that will coincide with the holding of the
naval conferunce and believes that it is a part of the
present American "strong policy in favor of a settlement
of the Manchurian issue at the next naval conference".
GDA.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.96)
of them even considered it
the League of Hatiena. The probable hope
El Salvador in recognising "Manchakuo" the
find a market for a limited amount af coff
to have been abortive, according to a Reneg
26, which stated that E1 Salvador was allesed
to impose a 200 per cent tariff on Japanese gooda
Japan "does not buy the Salvadorean coffee". With res
to the attitude of the Belgian Ambassador to Japan
Polish Minister here toward the recognition of Manehuk
reference is made to the Embassy's despatch No. 833 of
June 14, 1934.
(2) Statements by Japanese Officials Relating to
"Manchukuo".
In a statement issued for the TOKYO ASAHI of June 15
with the heading "Americans Balteve Manchurian Qmestion
Settled, Says Konoye", Prince Konoye is quoted by that
paper as follows:
Regarding the action taken by Japan
in Manohukuo, all quarters are taking an
attitude of calm watching or implicit re-
cognition. Some influential persons have
said that the Manchurian question has al-
ready been settled. In other words, it is
their opinion that whatever Japan might do
in Manchukuo it is of no concern to America
so long as it does not infringe upon the
right and interest of the United States.
nThao
*Embassy's despatch No. 81l of June 1, 1934.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.96)
of the reoeat
it will nat he
that the United at
cognize Manchukto shortl
THE JAPAN TlMES of June 17 comtained
speech delivered by Mr. Shigemitsd, Vied
Foreign Affairs, at the annual banquet at the
Association of Japan, in which he made the fo
statements in an effort to prove Japanls imno
"East Asia":
" The independence (of "Manchukrue") is fla-
grant proof of Japanese indifferenee or t
torial ambitions. Manohukuo is an indopen
state established by the Chinese rac, and
will never be annexed by Japan. I
fore conclude that the independence is a-com
promise solution of the problen between the
two nations, which manages at the mame time
to save the prestige of China and to satisfy
the desire of Japan. The Japanese felt a
sense of relief by this compromise solution,
and will no longer seek any aggression what-
soever into China.
(3) Prince Chichibu's State Visit to "Manohukuo.
Prince Chichibu arrived at Hsinking on June 6 and
left for Japan on June 13. He fulfilled his mission on
d.1
June 7 by representing Emperor Hirohito in offering con-
gratulations upon the inauguration of the Imperial ré-
gime in "Manchuk o" and in presenting the highatJapan-
ese decorations to the Emperor and Empress. The usual
propoganda appeared in the Japanese press about the
feeling of friendship of the "Manchukuoan" people towrd
Japan. In THE JAPAN TIMES of June 15 it was reported
that

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.94)
world and the oths
his subjeets reosived the
elear indication of their f
and cordiality tewarda J
(4)
General Reononic ena Fin
And Foroian Trade.
AOCOrding to THE JAPAN CHRONICLE OI.J
ditts
in prices of agricultural products in March, les
serious distress to the farmers; the Gevermment of
chukuo"; believing this fall in prièes due to bu
and a consequent surplus, took various relief
cooperation with the Manchuria Railway Company but condi-
tions have shown no material 1mprovement. The Tokyo mews
papers attribute the trouble partly to the high import
tariffs imposed by other countries. It is pointed out
that Germany, which used to import 60% of the Manchikion
bean crop each year, has now barred imports of beans from
"Manchukuo", and that the Chinese market for beans has
been lost. Because of these adverse conditions, it is
reported that the Government of "Manchukuo" is consider-
ing the adoption of national control of the whole export
trade.
According to statistics published in the ASAHI SHIM-
BUN of June 20, exports for the period January 1 to April
30, 1933, amounted to ¥170,673,000, and imports to
¥165,527,000, renresenting a favorable balance of
¥5.146.000.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
that the hisher import fig
portations of buliding materials for
large imposing buildings and that the 1
can be accounted for by dedreased axports
cakes, and coal.
(5) No Agreement Reached on the 
organisation of the South s
There has still been no agreement reached
Japanese Overseas Affairs and War Ministries on the
posed reorganization of the South Manehuria Railway nt
a holding company under the control of the Eoonomic Ro
search Bureau of the Kwantung Army Command.
(6) The Proposed Abolition of Japanese Extra=
territoriality Rights in "Manchukuo".
Mr. Kuriyama, Chief of the Treaty Division of the
Japanese Foreign Office arrived in "Manchukuo" on June
23rd, the purpose of his visit being an investigation of
problems relating to the proposed abolition of Japanese
extraterritoriality rights in "Manchukuo". According to
a RENGO despatch from Hsinking, the Ministry of Justice
of "Mianchukuo" has requested an appropriation of Yuan
10,000,000 (about $3,333,333) for the next fiscal year in
order to facilitate the withdrawal of extraterritorial
rights now enjoyed by Japan in that country, Mr. Choku
Obara, President of the Tokyo Court of Appeals, visited
"Manchukuo"

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.97)
#inking that the abolition of
is inovitable but should ceme nly
has perfected her judicial syste
(7) "Manahnkuo" Govarnmant o
MD
Expense of National Der
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER of June 8 ropert
Government of "Manchukuo" has decided
sum of 9,000,000, (about $2,700,000) 1n 
the next fiscal year for paying part of the
national defense. The expense of the national dare
of "Manchukuo" has up to the present been borne entirblx
byJapan
MID
Air defense maneuvers were held at Dairen and Port
Arthur on June 17 to June 21, inclusive, and they includ
the dropping of bombs on temporary buildings by airplanes,
anti-aircraft gun practice, a sham fight between attacking
and defending planes, and machine gun fire from planes at
target anchored off the beach. Thousands of civilians,
mobilized under the Dairen Air Defense Committee, cooperated
with soldiers and police in the "defense" of the city. The
main purpose of the maneuvers was to impress upon the civilian
population the danger of aerial warfare and to teach them
methods of defense against it. There was evidence in the
newspapers and elsewhere that the potential enemy in mind
was Soviet Russia; during the maneuvers a department store
In miren consptcuously exhibited a large map which showed
the

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
On June 86 the docond year of
sale of the Chinese Bestern Railway o
ever, any prospect of immediate suoses
month the situation has remained substautially
although the Soviet Ambassador conferred with
Minister on Jume 4, 16, and 28, the last call re
in rumors that Soviet Russia was prepared to make
concessions to "Manchukuo". Lately there has been
crease in the number of bandit attacka** reported on the
Eastern branch of the Chinese Bastern Railway, and requosts
on the part of Soviet officials of the railway for adequate
protection have, it seems, been ignored. It is said that
the Japanese have opened a Consulate at Pogranichnaya at the
extreme eastern end of the line. The stalemate which per-
sists in this situation continues to cause anxiety both in
Soviet Russia, whence come rumors of impending series of
arrests of Soviet railway officials and in Japan, where such
papers as the Tokyo ASAHI have expressed editorial opinions
"Unpleasant incidents are occurring on the
as:
Soviet-Manchukuo borders with uncomfortable
frequency. This makes all the more neoessary
a speedy solution of the railway question.
Manchukuo and the Soviet Union cannot hope
to get along well except by disposing of the
railway question."
2. Border
*See copy of the letter to the Embassy dated June 28.1934.
from the American Consul at Dairen, two copies of which were
sent to the Department.
**Embassy's despatch No. 835 of June 14, 1934.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
Suring the early part of June
mubject of an exahange of aogusatio
the part of "Manchakuo" and Soviet Russis
publicity was restrained. Japan, however,
Controversy when Ambassador Ota in Moscow deni
had asoribed the casualties on board thes res
attacks of Manchurian bandits. The incidents
themselvea unimportant, have nevertheless serte
the interested parties of the danger of seriems
and, to judge from the tone of recent stataments, it  1
that every effort will be made to prevent their reourronos
During the past month as a matter of fact, only two border
incidents have been reported, both unconfirmed. On Jume
15 it was reported from Harbin that three Soviet planes
were sighted over Mishan, Kirin Province, and on June 19
a Hsinking despatch claimed that Soviet troops have at
times penetrated as much as 50 miles within the "Manchukuo
province of Hsingan. The Mongolian residents of this re-
gion are said to have expressed the desire that Japan es-
tablish a garrison for their protection.
Possibly hastened by the recent incidents along the
Amur River, the long heralded Soviet-Manchukuo" Waterway
Conference was convened on June 26 at Heiho. It is said
that serious negotiations commeneed on the 28th and that
the agenda of the conference relates to the construction
watercourse beacons, navigation regulations, and the
drainage
Embassy's Mont ily Political Report for May, 1934.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
D1aRut
During June thia questy
where the first session of a donfe
and Japan for a rewiston of the
on June 17. Japan 1s represented at
members of her Embassy in Moscow, the So
fused a visa to Mr. Sukeatsu Tanakamaru
pert, who had been selected to represent the
of the Japanese fisheries concerns. The respettiv
positions of the two governments hamnot altored dar
the past month, the Soviets maintaining that the day
ciation of the yen makes an upward revision necessary and
the Japanese declining to admit that the conferenoe wilr
discuss such a revision.
According to the HOCHI SHIMBUN of June 29 the Mighiro
Fishery Company will pay rental for Soviet fishing watere
for the second half of 1934 at the old rate of 32.5 n
per ruble despite the pronouncement of the Soviotst that
this rate would only be applicable to the first half of
the year. The report states that a protest"may be Torth-
coming". The same company donated X100,000 to the USSR
*Embassy 's despatch No. 714 of March 28, 1934.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
byaGoviot patro1 ship.
progress made in doubletracking the
road. The Counselor of the Sovfat mbe
declared that the work will be eompleted to Habaro
autum and to Vladivostok by the end of the year,
recent traveller, seeningly a competent obeurver, stat
that in his opinion the entire task was about two thirds
finished. He admitted, however, that although work
favorable terrain hed been completed, the more diffioult
mountainous regions were relatively untouched. Both in
formants indicated that the northern railroad* from Baikai
east was progressing rapidly, Mr. Rayvid stating that
single track would be completed by next spring. There has
been little reference made lately by Japanese to the pro-
gress made in railroad construction in Siberia but a re-
port that the Soviets, with the support of the Nanking
Government, were building a motor road from Urga to Kalgan
has been widely publicized.
On June 21 the local press reported that during the
examination of one Masaru Kato, a Communist, 1t had been
revealed that Mr. Galkovitch, until recently First Secre-
tary of the Soviet Embassy, had regularly supplied materials
and
*Embassy's despatch No. 754 of April 21, 1934

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
now being negetiated by Já
Russia, an undertone of imers
been apparent in Tokyo despita the
Japanese government to minimise indide
The firing on "Manchukuo" shipe in the 
the shooting which ocourred near the Jas
at Habarovsk have been largely inst
public resentment against the UBen again as
by a group of six reactionaries, members of the
who attempted to present a protest to Ambassadom
and, failing this, wrecked the reeeption room
Embassy.
Rumors in great quantity have also made their mppear
ance. On the twenty-second of the month a member of
diplomatic corps, long a chief of mission in Tokyo, told the
Ambassador that he was greatly perturbed by a report from
reliable informant in Manchuria to the effect that a Soviet
attack was considered imminent and that the Soviets were
only awaiting an opportunity to shift responsibility on
to Japan before commencing. In this connection the diplo-
mat in question considered it significant that a member of
the Soviet Embassy staff recently stated that the Soviete
Railway
no longer wished the Chinese Eastern/Conference to sue-
ceed and also that the Foreign Minister asked the Soviet
Ambassador

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
In regard to these' rumor
the Embassy on retuming from his
could not credit at all the report of
attack; a Soviet official has indioated to
the Embassy staff that the U8sk would if po
retain the Chinese Bastern Railway because it
a profitable enterprise;* and the spokoaman
Office told Ameriean press correspondents that
Hirota did seek assurances from the Boviet Ambess
neither the question nor its answer were considsted
real significance.
While no crisis exists or seems imminent, it is
nevertheless apparent that the recent improvement in re
lations rests on an insecure basis. The chronie irrita-
tion of minor incidents and disputes precludes the possi-
bility of an early return to cordial relations and in
fact places upon the officials of "Manchukuo", Japan, and
Soviet Russia an ever present responsibility for restraint
if an outburst of popular feeling is to be prevented.
From present indications this responsibility is recognized,
and every effort will be made to prevent a crisis. Never-
theless, although other problems are more pressing, this
in no sense means that the Japanese animosity towards
and fear of Soviet Russia has appreciably diminished.
TGP.
*Embassy's despatch No. 793 of May 18, 1934.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
viderConsulat
his way from the Japenesd Cona
to bid goodbye to Mr. Artyoshi, 
threatened to canse a serions brehoh in int
Ho was missing for five days and during that
ese Government began to be alarmed about lis
were many stories circuiated laying she blame
appearance on the Chinese "Blue Shirts" and 
gosted that the Chinese Gevermment had & hand ln it.
cause he was not found at once, the Japanese press
hint at Chinese subterfuge, that the Chinese were nox
ing serious efforts to search for him and that it was tim
for the Japanese military to intervene and conduct a propor
search. The CHUGAI of June 14 published another rumor that
the anti-Japanese element of the Nanking Government had re-
sorted to the kidnapping in order to create trouble for the
Government hoping for the ousting of Mr. Wang Ching Wei from
his chairmanship of the Executive Yuan, and thus to bring
to a head the strained Sino-Japanese relations. In spite
of Ch na's insistence that there was no foul play and that
all efforts were being made to find the Vice Consul, Japanese
press reports continued to play up the ulterior motives be-
hind his disappearance, and to clamor for forcible interven-
tion, provided China did not furnish acceptable explanation
shortly.
The Forelgn, War and Navy Ministers discussed the case
at

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
have taken place during the
Government, the CHRONICLE
little the affair, saying that the
doubtedly be found, as Chinese ofriciala, as
thing to disturb the Sino-Japanese e1
have been working so hard to improve.
ese Government seemed to take a more sorigus
prepared drastic instructions to send to th
Nanking. Aocording to the NICHI WICHI of Juf
structions were to the effect that if Mr Kur
not produced within one or two days marines would
to conduct a search, inasmuch as China would then bey
sidered incompetent as a law-governed state and that i
military action were neceseary, the other powers would
be notified thereof at once. Furthermore, that if any
fault were found to lie with the Chinese Government, Mr
Ariyosh1 would be despatched to Nanking at once. to open
diplomatic negotiations for indemnity and apology, and to
warn Chinese officials that Japan thereafter would re-
serve the right to intervene with force and without hesita-
tion to setile any future trouble that might arise, ragard
les: of indemmity and punishment for the present case.
Fortunately, the instructions did not have to be de-
livered to the Nanking Government, although a strong pro-
tust was lodged, becuuse Mr. Kuramoto was found in a cave
outside Nanking on the following day, June 13, in a semi-
conselo st te, and brought back to hospital. He was
uninjured

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
judged temporarily innane by phyaiorans
returned to Japan, where he willr
It 1s interesting to read that whil
explanation is accepted in most questers
rumors of foul play. One paper states that
Suma, Kuramoto's chief, is not satisfied with the
tion of the affair and has offered his resign
that Foreign Minister Hirota immediately telegra
to remain pending further investigations.
stood that Mr. Sume was dissatisfied with the Chinese mol
efforts in the search, and puzzled over the action of the
Chinese who did not turn Mr. Kuramoto over to the Japanese
Consulate General until late afternoon, although he had
been found around noon. The ADVERTISER maintains that
during that period the Chinese police grilled him thoroughly,
in spite of his exhausted condition. Hope had almost been
abandoned for the life of Mr. Kuramoto, and the press of
both countries was apparently very excited over the affair.
The Japanese warship TSUSHIMA arrived off Nanking and stood
by ready to land forces if necessary, according to the AD-
VERTISER, and General Chiang Kai Shek returned hastily
from Nanchang to conduct the search personally.
The sudden finding of Mr. Kuramoto uninjured, having
disappeared of his own volition, according to his story,
rather left the Japanese Government in the middle of its
own "mare's nest", and having made so much to-do about the
disappeanance

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.97)
To harbor suspicions that Mr. Kuramoto
might not have been so simple as he expl
a fair face-saving expedient. At least,
fair is practically finished, offiolals of both cor
have stated that relations have not been distu
MD
The press reports that the Japanese Goverament has for
a long time been watching with growing concern the inereas-
873.3
ing quantities of arms, supplies and even loans that have boon
supplied by European nations and the United States to the
Chinese Government and, more perturbing, to various Chinese
warlords. The NICHI NICHI observes that the War Office is
determined to hold foreign nations to account for supplyt
the materials calculated to disrupt peace in China and im-
peril relations with Japen. In view of this big business
going on, the article continues, Japan's Aptil 17th state-
ment is justified. It gives the War Office's attitude as
being unable to understand the powers' China policy, as Bri-
tain and the United States were in favor of an arms embargo
for Chine, following Japan's withdrawal from the League,
and

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
for the 19th Route A
é contract was sieme
authorities and the Fedoral I
smoply of 1,000 frag
$79.000
Grest Britain: From September 1958
1938 Br1tiaa arms
L51,816. From Ju1y to October, 193s
to Chisa 1,000 forty m.m. sholls, nin
mounts, l00 fifty kg. bombs for aircs
does, 80 bomb racks for planes, four md
mines, 20,000 pounds of explosives, 19,000 po
of "effecting powder", eight 7.9 m.m. maehine
2,500 cartridges for .303 inch machine guna,
January 17, 1934, delivered at HongKong two mot
torpedo boats built by Thornyeroft Company.
Vickers-Armstrong Company contracted with the
Government to build 12 six ton tanks, 19 light
and supply 32 cases of cartridges.
Germany: Carlowitz & Company secured a contract to
supply 50 armored motor cars, 12 tanks and 10 000
Mauser rifles.
France: Sold 12 high-powered anti-aircraft guns and
200,000 shells, and in March, 1934, a contract was
concluded between French Indo-China and Cantonese
authorities for the acquisition of 5,000,000 Yuan
worth of airplanes, field guns, machine guns and
other war materials.
Italy: 800 tons of rifles, machine guns, pistols,
and cartridges hawe been shipped to China during
the past year.
Czechoslovakia: The Skoda Company agreed in January,
1934, to supply the Canton G vernment with eight 12
inch guns, eight 8 inch guns, 12 six inch guns, and
twelve 4 inch guns for the Canton forts, at a cost of
$4,500,000 HongKong Silver. Skoda also sold the
Nanking Government 5,000 rifles and machine guns fn
March.
Belgium: An uncertain quantity of rifles were landed
at HongKong for the Chinese Government during May, 1934
The

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
Aatisies to Ohina wh
y tiae, and wheze Jepan is tryina to kees
beya that if the mestere nations do not dur
Brant violations by their own business firme
clared peaceful desires Japan will in selr. dera
do something about it. While it is trne, the-
avers, that Govermments have nothing to do with tnd
business trade in weapons, at the same time it is pueri
to talk of disarmament and arms embergos and other peses
guarantees as long as the big armament firms can sell thoir
weapons freely to all buyers.
Now that China is more than ever faced with a critical
internal condition -- precarious condition of national fi-
nances, an unfavorable bajance of trade, near collapse in
rural economy, and the great problem of food and population,
which depends greatly on the foregoing problems, Japan ap-
pears to regard any aid or intervention in China by any na-
tion other than itself as detrimental to the peace in the
Far East. Anything that might possibly disrupt the Govern-
ment there would jeopardize any chances of Japan being able
to collect some of the large debt China owes it. According
to the CHRONICLE of June 7, Japan does not believe thatmany
of the foreign loans to China have benefited more than a
few people; that they are not wisely granted, and that Japan,
being responsible for the peace of the Far East, believes
it is entitled to the privilege of making money from Chinese
loans, as wel! as seeing that the money is properly employed.
Bad

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
long been in a diffieult
obtain western aid, and does not wisß to
nations. The Canton faction's strong deaire
Japenese invasion menaced him on one side
Commumist party on the other threatened his
together. There are also the potent influemces
to Japan which he must also try to appease.
proclaims him an opportunist swaying with the politfoul
wind and never clearly declaring his position.
Ariyoshi, Japanese Minister to China, mbx went to Wanrin
to interview the chairman of the Executive Yuan and event-
ually to see General Chiang Kai Shek on matters relating
to the through train service to Manchuria and promoting
better relations generally, he was informed frankly by
the General that the reason he had avoided a meeting since
the Shanghai incident was chiefly because he had no definfto
policy formulated as a basis on which to negotiate with
the Minister. Apparently their conversation was satis-
factory to both, as Mr. Ariyoshi is understood to have
reported that General Chiang was not as unfavorable to
Japanese plans as he had been.
The North China Association of Tokyo, formed some time
ago to improve relations with China, handed a memorandum
to the Foreign Minister urging that the Government pursue
the policy of furnishing China with industrial, technical
and scientific facilities to aid in its development, at the
same

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
agreboeat
ar's negotiation between Japen,
the resumption of the Peiping-Mukdeh traie
has not operated since the outbreak of the
according to the NICHI NICHI and ASANI.
connecting China andaManchukuo" will begin on Jull
Only passenger service will be operated for
the new operating company, participated in aqually
Chinese and "Manchukuo" officials, will be capitalis
at one million yuan. The press of Japan hails the
of through traffic as one of the best means of prometi
friendly relations in the Far East, and cites the many
judices and obstacles that had to be overcome in obtaining
Chinese cooperation. It is reported that the Chinese are
now striving to have the May 31, 1933, Tangku truce can-
celled, partly on the ground of appeasing Chinese opposi-
tion to the resumption of through train service. The
Japanese, however, says the ASAHI SHIMBUN of June 21, in-
tend to reject the proposal, maintaining that the resumed
service has no political flavor, does not imply Chinese re-
cognition of "Manchukuo" and has no direct relation to the
truce, thereby not constituting a reason for abrogation.
4. China's New Bank
The recent establishment of a new foreign loan bank
in Shanghai, to be known as the Chung Kuo Bank, headed by
former

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.97)
maistance in
 the mICHI mICHI the bank,
June 2nd, with a etal of 10,000,000
purpose of inviting foreign capstal to Ohina in
contribute to the economio developmant of the com
While not a part of the League of Natieme plan for hel
ing Chine, the two papers believe that there is same
relationship there, and that the foreign dapital that 
be attracted will not be for the best interests of Ohis
At least foreign investment will not fit in with Japam
plans for assisting China to stand upon its own feet eco
cally. One report the MAINICHI states, is to the effeot
that through the joint efforts of Mr. Monet of the Leagus,
and Mr. Rogers of the American Government, a syndicate is
being formed secretly to invest British, American, French,
Italian and Belgian money in various enterprises in China
through the medium of the new bank. In that case, the paper
continues, what of the quadruple consortium responsible for
the economic assistance to China, and what of the Amau state-
ment of April 17th, and what of Japanese plans for the re-
habilitation of China. The Japanese Government is reported
to be opposed to the new bank and is watching its develop-
ment with keenest interest.*
5. Increased Air Force Alarms Japan
The MAINICHI of June 9 reports that Japanese Naval Au-
thorlties are viewing with some alarm the rapid increase in
the number of aircraft in China. By 1936. it states, China
expects
*Seo Despatch No. 819 of June 8, 1934.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
Sne rest from Italy
that the present air armameat in China ts
ment, 250 planes; Canton faction, 211 planams
maring a total of 521 umits altogether,
stitute a menace to Japan, or at least potentiailyl
Japan's Ansular security.
(a) Netherlanda India--Japan Trade Parlex
The trade parley now being carried on in Batavia be
tween the Japanese Commission and the Netherlande Indies
Government in an attempt to adjust and regulate the trad
relations between the two countries, apparently reached
deadlock on June 26, after the leaders of the two delegatlc
Dr. Nagaoka and Dr. Mejer Renneft, had clarified their res-
pective standpoints. As a result the parley was adjounred
for ten days during which the Japanese delegation will
make a tour of inspection. Moreover, in the hopes of
breaking the deadlock, the Japanese Government with the
aid of the Osaka exporters, has chosen an assisting committee
of technical experts to augment the commission. They will
help in provi ing accurate tra e data for the discussions,
and will convert the Dutch measures of quantity and value
into Japanese equivalents -- a difficulty that has made the
discussions complicated.
According to several Tokyo papers the more settlement
of trade differences was discussed the firmer each dele-
gat on reasserted its posit on, albeit an atmosphere of
polite

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
readrving ane of their best marke
tootimg their 7,000 citisens residemt in
obtaining what they term equal rigits of trads
other coumtries. In a note to the Dutuh del
Nagacka listed his country's desire thst Ja
be treated reasonably and fairly,
lands Indies' right to protect its economid lir
to the point of injuring seriously Japanese or/fersis
business. He mentioned the Japanese maritime interestsy
mutual benefit from freer trade, Japan's objections to
heavier tariffs on Japanese goods than upon those of
other nations in violation of the most favored nation
clause in their treaty with Holland, and his country's desire
for cooperation between the commercial and maritime interest
of both countries to their mutual advantage. The NICHI
NICHI of June 29 believed that if the Dutch Government in-
sisted on retaining the "discriminatory" quotas the Japan-
ese delegation would have no recourse other than that of
withdrawing from the parley. The Dutch reply to the Japan-
ese stated that because of the economic isolation that
might follow Japanese dominat on of the Netherlands Indies
markets, drastic action in self defense was indicated, and
foreign trade would have to be more nearly balanced. It
coneluded

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
Jagan be inoressedy and that
in the production and trede of the
must be considered and reasonably
The JIJI seeme to be of the opimdo
delegation would not have so muoh diffioul
agreement at Batavia if it were not for the'rep
of the Dutch home Government and the attitude or
It pointed out that the Hollanders were not in a posit
to understand the Japanese position as well as the
government does, but granted that Holland, considering
the East Indies as its "life line", would do all it could
to protect them from foreign encroachment which might
damage its own economic interests. The OSAKA MAINICHI r
ported that the Javanese natives-- not Dutch-- were hoping
for the success of the Japanese delegation in order that
they can continue to benefit from the lower prices on tex-
tiles and other Japanese godds. They also hope, the report
said, that the Japanese do not buy any more Javanese sugar,
as the profit to the natives was very small--sometimes not
even providing a living wage--and the land might then be
more profitably devoted to other crops.
Japanese exporters are apparently viewing their dele-
gates' lack of success with concern. While the Netherlands
Indies Government seems to have accorded the Japanese every
facllity, it does not give evidence of relenting from its
drastic quota enforcement, although the Japanese press ap-
parently holdsout hopes that the technical commission may
aid in reaching a satisfactory agreement when the parley
reconvenes.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.96)
ited sn Tokyo on June'
presented his lester of credenes to  
redeived him in audienee on Jume 28. Bir
reports, was formerly British Minister at
served as seoretary in the Embassy at Tokyo
ON1
In reply to the reported speech by Sir Bolte
Monsell, First Lord of the British Admiralty, to th
that Britain needed naval expansion, the CmouICLs gave
the following view of Japanese Naval Authoritiee, accou
for Britain's reversal of policy: (a) Britain has lost
fidence in further naval conferences, in view of the fimko
at Geneva. (b) The United States expansion proposed by the
Vinson Bill, and the rejection by the Bill of Britaints pro
posal to suspend cruiser construction have aroused the ri-
valry spirit, even to the point of favoring the largest navy
in the world for Great Britain. (c) The naval expansion po-
licy being pursued by France and Italy have caused uneasiness
in Britain. (d) Because of gradual improvement in British
finances of late the policy of British Naval Authorities in
favor of expansion has had increased public support. The
article concludes with the observation that the British
statement has undoubtedly influenced the preliminary disarma-
ment talks and will have a serious effect upon the regular
Disarmament Conference.
3. British Quota System Protested by Japan
As a result of the Japanese May 17 protest to the Bri-
tish

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
alight cogeessioms were granted)
ent is not satisried. The conoed
agreament not to apply the quotas to Japen
were shipped before May 7, and of another
the British Government will not apply the quate
where the volume does not exceed 2.5 por tent of
ports into each colony or quota region, The Ja
understood to still hold to the theory that trade ou
side the British Isles should be left to free competitid
and that the British quotas can "hardly be reconeiled with
the most favored nation clause "in the treaty of commeroe.
Mr. Runciman's reply was that Britain is prepared to modiry
appltcation of the quotas as far as possible, but that tho
principle of the quotas cannot be altered, the MAINICHI
of June 24 reports. It states that the Japanese Government
is considering retaliatory measures.
Pursuant to the indication contained in last month's
report that a delicate situation exists in regard to rela-
tions between Great Britain and Japan, Netherlands India
and Japan, and Great Britain and Netherlands India, the
ASAHI of June 25 brings out the report that the Singapore
quota system has been operated to discriminate against
Japanese goods in favor of those from the Netherlands Indies.
Imports of Dutch shalloon, the paper says, have been favor-
ed in Singapore, while Japanese imports of the same commodi-
y

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
between Oreat Britais and Holl
matters. Consequently, the Japene
dlose attention to Anglo-Dutoh relati
view of the progress of the Japanese-Netherl
trade conference now in session.
LA
The press of Japan continued all the month to
569
late against the restriction Brazil has imposed on
tion,* which affects Japanese immigraats more than those
any other country. Although the new law does not speoify
a ban on Japanese immigration, it is so framed that it at-
tains the end of cutting the number of Japanese dom from
more than 25,000 to only 2,849 per year. A11 attempts to have
the law modified have apparently been in vain. The ASaI
reports that the quotas now in effect are: Japanese 2,849,
Italians 28,035, Portuguese 22,863, Spanish 11,516, Germans
6,682, Russians 2,133, and Australians 1,687 per annum. It
also states that the Brazilian press has refrained from any
anti-Japanese comment and that there appears to be no anti-
Japanese sentiment in most parts of the country. The
CHRONICLE reports that there are many in Brazi1 who are
opposed to the new measure, especially in view of the need
Brazil has for further colonization and new labor. One
more Brazilian legislator, the paper says, has been found
who is sorry he supported the immigration bill. With a view
toward naving the Brazilian anti-Japanese immigration law
modified the Japan-Brazil Soclety, the Osaka Shosen Kaisha,
the
spatet No. 854 of June 12, 1934.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
unofficial cavey to Brasil
1, adviser to the Japen-Brasil 8
as the probáble candidate, says the Chmo
It is interesting to note in a preas stem
last of June that regardless of the new dimpoura
Japanese immigration to Brazil, 189 familfes totall
1,287 persons sailed from Kobe for Rio de Janoiro.
will take up coffee raising and farming around Bme. P
and the Capital.
As reported in the Embassy's despatch No. 8go of Jun
14, 19z4, the Belgian Special Mission to announce to th
Emperor the coronation of King Leopold III of Belgium,
arrived, executed its mission, and departed on June 1l,
after visiting the principal places of interest in Japan.
The press gave very little space to the mission or its
purpose after the departure, other than to imply that
doubtless the mission's proposed visit to Manchuria and
Russia on its return trip smacked of commercial prospect-
ing.
(h) Portugal Sends New Envoy
The newly appointed Portuguese Minister to Japan, Dr.
Thomaz Ribeiro de Mello, accompanied by Mrs. de Mello, ar-
rived at Kobe on the YASUKUNI MARU on June 26. He pro-
ceeded at once to Tokyo where he made arrangements to pre-
sent his letter of credence during the first days of July.
Mr. Ribeiro de Mello's last post was that of Minlster to
Sweden.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
there has been no Partu
(a) Laternatsonal--Diplommay
In discussing the suecess or failure
ese negotiations with other countriesdurin
gime, the press is inclined toward the opinion
wealkness in diplomatic endeavors has been owleg as
the uncertainty of the Cabinet, often on the verge or
fall, as to any other cause. Withdrawal from the
of Nations, though not necessarily resulting in athio
isolation, has yet made Japan's diplomacy no vasier
Hirota has struggled valiantly, says the AsanI, with his
peaceful cooperation policy which replaced his predecessor
"radical diplomacy, but his efforts have been minimized by
the weakness of the domestic political situation. Relations
with the United States appear to have been improved and
American attitude mollified, at least superficially. But
it remains to be se n how permanent that improvement is.
Relations with the Soviet are not reassuring, another paper
states. The Chinese Eastern Railway and fisheries contro-
versies are not materially adv nced in spite of the energetic
eftorts of the Foreign Office. Then the Anglo-Japanese
tra e  rley may be regar ed as a complete failure, and
the Tutch-Japanese Tra e Conference, now deadlocked, may
also ccomolish nothing to Japan's advantage. A little
hop lor the future seems to appear with regard to improved
rei ns with China. Anti-Japanese feeling seems to have
abat consider bly, an the through railway service is
Th ASAHI believes that
one

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
érations requtren
mehukcuo". The recent visit of the
helped strengthen relations with. the
to the insecurity of the Japanese Cabfn
differences here, "Manchukuo" does mot
fixed plan for development, and a definite plan
ese aid in that development does not erist,
believes that popular confidence in the Saito Cab
gone, and that it should resign if for no other reatem
that of helping diplomacy in allowing a stronger Cabinet
to take up the reins of Government.
MNH.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
Atl during the mesth,ther
alscusaton in the preks and by the public the
possible resignation or the Cabinet.*
to the Saito Cabinet printed long editorials dep
regime. They pointed out that no other Premiere
done any better than Viscount Saito, owing to the
able internal condition and the precarious intarnatiol
situation, and that in the face of great obstacles his
Government had actually improved relations with other coun
tries. Other papers, also favorable, pointed out that there
is no other candidate for the Premiership who would be
strong enough to win the backing of the various politie
parties, the Army and Navy and the public, without which
no definite internal or external policies could be success-
fully carried through. The opposition press in news item
and editorial made a great howl over the successive scandals
that have been uncovered in the Cabinet, and agreed that of
course the last case of corruption involving the Vice-Minis-
ter of Finance, Mr. Kuroda, must result in the resignation
of the Cabinet, because the public ha completely lost
confidence in its integrity as a whole.
Promier Saito apparontly remained unruffled throughout
all the hue and cry, issuing brief statements only when
necessary. But toward the end of the month, as the Minis-
tor of Justice continie to delay his report of investiga-
tior of the Kuroda seandal, Mr. Takahashi, the Finance
Minister
bmbasy's
136 June 27-7 P.m.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
were indisted. The Premier
him not to resign indifidually, but
of the investigations. If they were aom
Kuroda, he implied that perhaps the Cabinat
en bloo. As time went on and no actfon was
became impatient. Some editorials began to mtatt
opinion that the Saito Cabinet would survive oyen th
scandal, or, in the event resignation was inevitabl
Viscount Saito would be asked to form a now Cabinet
both Mr. Takahashi and Mr. Hirota would undoubtedir
cluded.
As the month closed it seemed that one man' opinion
about the future of the Cabinet was as good as another!.
The potential candidacy of General Ugaki seemed to haye
lost out entirely; a few papers suggested a Takahashi Cabinet
but not much support seemed forthcoming. All agreed that
it was no time for a man with decided political affiliations
to come forward. Mr. Yamamoto, the Home Minister, was al-
so talked of as a possible candidate. The question of the
Saito Cabinet remaining, the OSAKA MAINICHI observed, de-
pends upon its adoption of one of three courses: To per-
suade Finance Minister Takahashi to reconsider his resigna-
tion, which it is assumed he will tender as soon as the
J stice lepartment discloses its fin?ings in the scandal
cnse; to tender a formal bloc resignation of the Cabinet
in  nticipat on of its possible rejection by the Throne; or
t englncer the prolongation of the Ministry on the assumption
Im rlal command will again come to the Saito
Ministry

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.97)
Ihe tároda acandal in the Fima
zair to precipitath the fali of the.Gak
Anudually Long time for investigation by the.
ter. While It was supposed that the deimy
pose of allowing the Cabinet to remain long
der the new budget, and to permit the consiaeratio
possible successor to the Premier, the latest reports
to the effect that the investigations have unoovered
corruption which may involve a present Minister of the
and a former one. The press became excited again over
rumor and everyone clamored for an early report from the
Minister of Justice. He has promised to give a preliminary
report on his findings during the first days of July. The
NICHI NICHI of the 28th carried the information that at a
meeting of the Premier, Ministers of Finance and Home Affaira
it was agreed finally that if the findings showed that Mr.
Kuroda may be guilty the Cabinet would resign en bloc.
(b) Army
1. Views on Political Situation.
It has been the policy of General Hayashi, Minister
of War, to keep the Army out of politics and to keep army
men from making political statements. However, with the
Cabinet crisis looming during June, and with the general
dissatisfaction over the political situation, it is under-
stood that Army circles and politicians have tried to in-
duce the War Min ster to throw his influence into the balance
in obtaining the Cabinet's resignation. The KokUMIN takes
the stand that General Hayashi is as much a Minister of
State

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
dy to do his best to
Hayashi was reported ta be very
in the political areha, especieily after his 
on keeping out of politics, but the uncertainty
Government policy and the future of military
him so anxious that the KokUmIN believes he is
to take what measures he can to improve the Gotermme
ation. The ASAHI observes that while soms sections
Army believe the War Minister is too lukewarm in bis at-
titude toward the political situation, and still othes
think he should have nothing to do with it, all shem to b
agreed upon the necessity for a definite state polioy with
regard to military plans and defense in general. And further
the paper says, if the Army plans are not allowed to be car-
ried out there may be serious consequences to the nation.
KWD
2. Expansion of Army Aviation Planned
It is reported that the War Minister has proposed the
expenditure of 200,000,000 yen ($60,000,000) in three ars
on the air force of the Army. The Minister has Just return-
ed from an inspection tour of flying fields and made the
proposal in connection with his estimates for the 1935-36
budget. His plan contemplates the establishment of further
aviation units in Hokkaido, in the northeast section of
the main island, and in the Hokuriku district on the Japan
Sea Coast. There will be a need for many more aviators,
and attention will be given to local airplane manufactur-
ing. The total Army budget is expected to be considerably
greater

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.96)
(0184,700,000)
a REnGo despateh shys that the wMan
plan to hold their first war manouvers in 0
Hsinking. 6,000 troops will engage in the
will be personally supervised by Emperor Kanste.
Wang Tsing-sin will command one corps and General Fut
shan will head the opposing force.
(c) NTY
1. Read Admiral Sakano Resigns
Following the general supposition current at the
of May, Rear Admiral Sakano, Chief of the Naval Intelligenco
Office, resigned on June 1. His resignation was forced
after his political statement that the Navy was not opposed
to the candidacy of General Ugaki for the Premiership. Navy
circles were incensed by the uncalled for statement, which
they feared might bear the implication that the Navy favored
General Ugaki for the next Premier. Moreover, it revived
rumors that the Navy had been opposed to the General. The
Navy Minister, Admiral Osumi,acted at once and demanded the
Rear Admiral's resignation, stating that it was the Navy's
strict policy to refrain from political utterances, parti-
cularly in view of the intimate relationship between inter-
nal politics and the success of the forthcoming Naval Con-
ference.
2. Naval Reaction to Admiral Pratt's Statement
8N
The recently published statement of Admiral Pratt to
the effect that Japan di not need a higher naval ratio
caused an immeai te and vehement outburst on the part of
the

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.97)
as he outlined it was not adeu
can afford a larger Navy, the prese retort
of any one but Japan, and that when it co
of providing adequate defense for the Matiom, all
must be overcome. A despatch covering the etohan
will be prepared and forwarded shortly.
ON
S. Naval Delegate to Prelimimary Haval Talka
The Navy Ministry has decided to send Captain
Shimomura, head of the fifth section of the third
WE
of the Naval General Staff, to attend the preliminary nave
talks in London, as a technical assistant to Ambassador
Matsudaira. The first plan to send Rear Admiral Yasuo Ko,
present representative at the general disarmament conference
at Geneva, was cancelled because of the need felt to send
some one who has been in closer touch with developments in
Japan. Lieutenant Commander Chuzaburo Yamasumi of the
General Staff was sent previously to London bearing an out-
line of Japan's naval policy to be used in the discussions,
In that connection the Navy Office is quoted as stating
that it is opposed to naming either Washington or London
as the seat of th regular naval conference. If Tokyo
is unsuitable, the NICHi NICHI reports, a European capital
such as Brussels, The Hague or even Paris would be acceptable.
4. Naval Maneuvers Planned
The Japanese Navy has planned grand maneuvers to take
place luring August, September and Oetober of this year,
in wh ch the entire navy wil partlcipate. During train-
ing

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
the warious bases in order
penees. This time, however, all avas
four fleets will take part i the
will be supervised by Prince Fushimi, Chier
General Staff, and will take place in the s
Mainland of Japan, Shikoku, Kyushu, Horea and Fen
liminary exercises by parts of the fleets are now
held in the Sea of Japan, and it is understood thas
grand maneuvers will not actually start until the 
September. At that time it is reported, l8o war weamols
and 200 airplanes will participate, represonting the first
and second fleets, part of the third and the especially or-
ganized fourth fleet. The maneuvers will be carried on
under conditions of heat, storm and general difficulties in
order to test the Navy's efficiency.
A non-stop flight by five or six of the 2l-style bi-
planes of the Naval Air Force from the air base at Yokosuka,
near Yokohaua, to Saipan Island of the Marianna or Ladrones
has been planned.
group in the South Seas/ The distance is 1, 300 nautical
miles. The flight will be for training purposes and a test
for the planes. It is rumored that it was inspired by the
American non-stop flight between San Diego and Honolulu
last January, and news of the proposed flight to Alaska sche-
duled for this summer.
(a) Political Parties
(a)

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
during the Cabinet crisis, and follows
of corruption in high official cireled.
trend toward liberalism and renewed int
relations rather than toward fascimm or int
Seares over possible dictatorship have undoubtedly pr
a renewal of the cry to preserve constitutiopali
parties, which have suffered greatly in prestige
last session of the Diet when so many corrupt prastie
laid at their doors, have begun to play up constituti
and the value of sane political parties to good gower
in their attempts to raise funds for new campaigns. The
strongest, the Seiyukai and Minseito parties have prantipall
joined forces in order to avoid oblivion, as they feel. that
public opinion is strongly prejudiced against anything thas
smacks of political partisanship. They were again shom
the disfavor into which they have fallen by the recont publid
preference for a new Premier that had no political affiliations.
Thorough house-cleaning must be done by the parties and re-
sults shown to the public before they can hope to regain the
people's confidence, and thus acquire financial support. The
situation might become delicate when it is realized that the
public is somewhat weary of the dictatorial attitude of the
Army and Navy regarding national questions, but at the same
time there has been so much corruption and graft within the
political parties that the public cannot look to them for
leadership with any confidence. Consequently, in its search
for honest an efficient leadership it is not impossible that
some
*Embassy's despatch
134.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.95)
ly for the supporters of
eent wing toward liberaliam has been in
the danger of dictatorship appears to have
for the time. The TImes quotes Baron Mitsunoje
momber of the House of Peers, as having prophesisa
form of Fascism will become a predominating influ
Japan before long because it is a modern tremd, and
Japanese politics need a new influence of the most
kind.
MONH.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to report.
y。

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.97)
The Mimistrr of
down a bestc policy for formiar
year 1955-1956 and at a 
Cabinet approved, with little comment, the
presented by the Finance Minister, Mr. Te
Ing to press mocounts, the prineipal points
program are as follows:- the necessity bf bal
budget; the reduction of the issuanee of derielt
1nk bonds to an absolute mintmm; the terminetion
emergency relief measures excepting for relief
prises in districts where local conditiona are ummmmal
bad. According to a RENGO translation that appemred
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER of June 27, Mr. Takahash1's statom
contained the following remark; which is thought to be
signiricant:
"Thanks to these expenditures(past expenditures
for national defense, for Manchurian operations
and for emergency relief)however, it seams that
national defense has been made adequate and the
life of the nation has been improved to some
extent."
The JIJI, the CHUGAI, and the MIYAKO of June 27 wore
pessimistic regarding the ability of the Government to
carry out this general policy in a successful, concrete
manner, and particularly regerding the high military ap-
propriations that would , in their opinion, be demanded by
the War and Navy Ministries in connection with the "crisis
year of 1935-1936". The CAUGAI remarks that
"If the Government suspends the payment of
relief funds during tha next fiscal year, a
sum of approrimate1y ¥120,000,000 (approxi-
matcly $36,000,000) may be set as1de, but
this

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.96)
MIrano states:
"The question of military
is attended with sreat diffiouls
want a govermmont whioh cen rin
casiom and meet the prublems ad
The ASagI of June 27 criticises the Cabts
alleged indifference with regard to the lss5-19se
"The condition of a nation whose budg
is a matter of little importamoe to
Cabinet is certainly not enviable".
An obstacle to the Finance Minister's annoumced
of balancing the budget will no doubt be eneoumtered
the side of the Navy Ministry if, as reported by Renão
af June 26, that branch of the Government actually iatend
to demand a budget appropriation for the crisis year
of ¥700,000,000 (about $210,000,000), which would reprosmt
a considerable increae over the naval appropriation of
¥487,000,000 in the 1934-1935 budget. The newspapers re-
port that it is expected that the Army will ask for an im-
crease in its 1935-36 budget over the ¥450,000,000 (about
$135,000,000) appropriation for the fiscal year 1934-35,
in order to make possible an expansion of the ariation
corps on a large scale.
(b) National Indebtedness and Government Bonds.
According to figures published in THE JAPAN ADVERTISER
of June 13, the total outstanding Government indebtedness at
the end of May, 1934, including domestic debts, foreign
debts, treasury notes, and rice notes, amounted to
¥8,827,529,000, an 1ncrease of ¥1,361,772,000 (approx1mately
$398,531.600

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.94)
pévenues heve inereased largely bedan
Government bond isanes.
(c) Bemiins.
The banking bureau of the Ministry of Finanoe a
according to the JIJI SHIuPO of Jume 1B, Gemmleering
following plans for the extension of banking wecilities.
especially to the masses: (1) Establishment of finemeial
organizations which will handle small loanss (e) & plam
to induce ordinary city banks to act as financial orgmms
for the masses with losses indemmified by the Finanee
Ministry; (3) Financing for the masses by credit associa-
tions; and (4) The extension of official pawn shops so
that they may handle loans to the poorer classes with or
without security.
It is rumored by certain newspapers that the banks
in general may be forced to reduce interest rates and
that the Bank of Japan will have to lower its official
interest rates as a result.
GDA.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
latioms in vetious parts of the
in Bouth Amdriea. Om May 10 a
elnded botween Japan and Urugway witn the
nation clause". áccording to presa atatistich
ranks thirteenth in imports from Uruguay and
in exports to that country. the commercial
cently concluded between the two countries
E
tribute tomerd a mutual increase in trade, p
as Japan is making active efforts to expand her
throughout South Amorica. Japan and Argentina have re-
cently started negotiations for the exchange of Argentine
meat for such Japanese goods as cotton textiles and silk
goods. A group of Argentine business men have recontly
visited Tokyo, and the Foreim Office intends soon to
send Mr. Sudo, of the Commeroial Bureau, to South America
on a tour of investigation. Japan has, according to re-
ports, for two or three years been attempting to establish
a close relationship with Peru*. There have been rumors
that Japan has been selling arms and ammunition to Peru
and buying Peruvian guano in exchange.** At any rate,
there is evidence that Japan has been increasing her com-
mercial activity along the west coast of South America.***
In certain other countries, however, there have been
indications that Japanese trade expansion will meet with
serious obstacles. A special despatch to THE JAPAN ADVER-
TiSER from Berlin, which appeared in this newspaper on June
16, stated that Japan was underbidding German and foreign
producers
Embassy's despatch No. 780 o May 17,1934.
*#Embasay's despateh No. P5P of Juno 28, 1934.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
that despite the manase
in Gemeeny. Developients in
have indicated a stronger tendeney
portation of Japanese goods than in the cm
eitad above. According to a NIPPON-DmrO-UNI
despatoh in THE JAPAN ADVERTISER of June 14, 10
has been passed in British West Africa limiting import
of Japanese textiles to 2-1/e per cent of the average
ports from 1928 to 1931, or to 800,000 square yarda an
nually, an amount so small that it would. probably not
interest Japanese manufacturers. The Jamaican Legislature
was reported by a RENGO despatch of June 7 to THE JAPAN
CHRONICLE to have passed legislation fixing import quotas
on foreign textiles, this law being aimed principally
against Japanese textiles. The newspapers of June 8
stated that the Egyptian Consul in Kobe had called on the
Japanese Minister of Commerce and Industry and expressed
the hope that Japan would be able to inerease her purohases
of Egyptian raw cotton and other special produets. In
that
this connection it may be pointed out/Japan's exports to
Egypt have been increasing rap1dly since 1931; in 1973
the Japanese exports to Egypt, amounting to ¥55,607,000
(approximately

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
According to the Jamenese
sular representative at Kobe called at the
of Cenmerce and Industry and stated that Japed's
to Haiti had greatly incressed in recent mouthsy
Japan's imports from that country ware almost niki and
that Haiti would eventually be forced te suppres
imports unless measures were taken to adjust the ua
able balance of trade. According to THE JAPAN CHRONIOL
of June 19, the Japanese Foreign Offiee has telegraphiomlly
instructed the Japanese Minister to Norway to protest
against the decision of the Norwegian Government either-to
raise the duties on Japanese goods or to place import
restrictions on them. THE JAPAN TIMES of June 20 stated
that the Foreign Office had received from the Japanese
Minister to Mexico a report that the Mexican Government
had imposed a prohibitire tariff on Japanese eelluloid
toys.
There was a certain amount of talk in the June news-
papers about the proposed establishment of a Foreign Trade
Ministry as a separate cabinet department, but the OSAKA
MAINICHI of June 22 reported that this plan had been re-
linquished for the creation of a "brain trust through
the cooperation of the Foreign Office and the Ministry of
Commorce and Tudustry, on the basis that the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry shall fix the trade policy wile the
Foreign

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.97)
am-American Trade Coumcil held itm
meting in Tekyo on June 19,*
According to the preliminary figures, Japants
for Jume were ¥185,804,000 (about ¥55,741,200) and ber
1mports were 208,507,000. Thme exports decreased
X6.062,000 and 1mports decreased by X16,387,000
parad with May. The unfavorable balance of trade de-
areased from 88,028,000 1n May to X17,703,000 1n Jun:
The figures for the first six months of 1934 show that
exports incresed 2l per cent and that imports inereased
14 per ceut as compared with the first six months of 1933,
while Japan'* total foreign trade increased 17 per cent.
(b) Farming Problems
(1) Consideration Being Given by the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry to the Industrialization
of the Farming Communities.
It is reported by the JIJI SHIMPO of June 26 that
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry has formulated a
plan for the industrialization of the farming communities
in the field of production and as a first step has sent
inquiries to the prefectural authorities requesting in-
formation on the relation between demand and supply, wages
and other labor conditions, and transportation and communi-
cation between the rural communities and cities and towns.
(2) Silk Cocoon Producers
In June the press commented at length on the fall in
price of silk cocoons and the consequent plight of the
farmers
*Embessy's despateh No. 870 of July 3, 1934.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.96)
2oasn of 1033.0n
tion in whish silk cocoon producere have found
the Minister of Agriculture end Forestry ealled a
of officials of his Department for June 26. At 
meeting it was decided that the whole cocoon fatein
dustry would have to be radically reorganized aloss the
following lines: Reduction of the cost of produntiom
improvement in the methods of disposing of cocoonss Gotern
ment control of sales of raw silk; and development of new
uses for silk.
(s) Fertilizers
Reference is made to Section VI (b) of the Monthly
Report for May, concerning the desire of farming groups
for the passage of legislation to regulate and control
artifical fertilizers. The Ministry of Commerce and
Industry has, according to press reports, now decided
to submit at the next session of the Diet a bill pro-
viding for Government control of the major fertilizers.
The JIJI SHIMPO of June 17 states that in drafting this
bill, the Department of Commerce and Industry will bear
especially in mind the interests of the farmers.
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
(c) Industries
(1) The Automobile Industry
In futherance of its efforts to develop a domestlc
ounclee
automobile industry. the Japanese Government is reported
by

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.96)
rive the Ferd and Gendres
af their cempsting power.
tes shat the Govermment plans to
manufacturing company with joimt Btate
gapital and to merge the Ford and General
Japan with this new company.
(2) Heglen Yarn and Taxtiles
Soeiation published in the JIJI SHImPO of June 14, Japen
exports of woolen yarn and tertiles during the firs four
months of 1934 amounted to ¥7,220,000 (approximatel
$2,166,000), which represented a gain of about 120 por
cent over the first four months of 1933. These statistics
rank India as the leading buyer of Japanese woolen yarn,
followed by China, and the Kwantung Leased Territory as
the principal purchaser of woolen textiles, with China
second.
(3) Agreement on Sales of Gasoline Reached between
Soviet Interests and the American. British. Japan-
ese Companies.
A dispute that had its inception in September, 1933,
was settled on June 22 when a formal agreement regarding
gasoline sales was signed by representatives of the Boviet
oil interests on one side and representatives of the
Americam

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.94)
in the axtating adminiatrative
d toward the end of the month;
was erratic and sensitive during the month)
or B ciass banks in Yokohama and Osaka lowere
tereat rates; and the volume of loans and advel
olined
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMRRICAN COMMEROIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.91)
th ef Japanese industry 1a Zargely'a
labor conditions and shat Japen's
th other countries constitates "soutel
()1on
A news despetch from Seoul to the mxcnI wIoaz
of June 20 stated that Governor-General Ugaki of Kas
hed arranged with the Tokyo authorities for a 10-year
emigration program under whish about 1,000,000 Korsons
would "be induced"to emigrate to Manchuria and Mongolia.
GDA.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.90)
Statisticn orfice, Jape
927,209 in population daring 10
increase of 1,007,868, during 1982,

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.95)
Diplomatic visa mepart.
Internal political situation i
Divorce suit of ur. Laing.
6
Third quarterly examination of .
8,
Whereabouta of C. H. Warah.
8,
Diplomatic visa report.
9.,
Japanese foroign policy.
• 11,
Extraterritoriality in Manaburia an Retroe
of the South Manahuris Bailway Zane
821
12,
Message of condolencs on death of Admiral
12
Ambassador Grew as special representative at
822
funeral of Admiral Togo.
823
n12,
Monthly Political Report for May.
824
"12,
12th International Veterinary Congress.
825
*12,
Visit to Tokyo of Emperor of Manchukuo.
826
" 11,
Request for audience with Emperor for Mr. Block.
827
"13,
15th International Red cross Conference.
828
"13,
The European Political Situation.
829
 14,
The Belgian Special Mission to Japan.
830
n 14,
Alleged attempt at Turco-Japanese rapprochement.
831
" 14,
Internal political situation in Japan.
" 14,
Address made by the Ambassador.
832
833
" 14,
Recognition of Manchukuo.
834
"12,
Brazilian restrictions on Japanese immigration.
835
14
Soviet-Japanese relations.
836
14
Broadcast from America on occasion of Togo funeral.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
fortiried zongd and milit
14,
Preliminary Naval 
15
Diplomatic visa regert:
840
15,
U.S. Flest Review, Japansme
841
15,
Laying of keel of U.S.s. BCH.
842
15,
Press comment on Prince Konoye's vimit
843
15,
Strike on the Pacirio Goast.
0s4
Steamship and railway fares to the Grient
845
Embassy plumbing - repairs needed etc.
846
19,
Free registration of motor vehieles.
847
20,
Publications for Department's Library.
848
Foreign lotteries.
849
20,
JINJI KOSHIN ROKU (who's Who in Japan).
850
20,
Memorials in honor of President wilson.
851
" 21,
Japanese violations of International Radio-
telegraph Convention Regulations.
852
n 21,
Japanese interest in oil concessions in
Venezuela.
853
22,
Diplomatic visa report.
854
22,
Japanese Foreign Office budget.
855
23,
Copies of letters from Mr. Howard regarding
American-Japanese relations.
856
23,
Requisition for supplies.
857
n
25,
Laying of keel of the U.S.S. SAVANNAH.
858
n
25,
Laying of keel of the U.S.S. FLUSSER.
859
10
28,
Japanese-Peruvian relations.
860
28,
Inventory of Government property.
861
28,
Gift of books from Mr. Miller to the
Japanese Foreign Office.
862
29
Concentration of Japenese shipping in
home waters.
863
30,
Sixth quurterly examination of r. Sohuler.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.92)
U.S.
1.5 p.m.
Diplomatio pou
p.mi
Death of miral
to otme te Japan
1, 7 D.m.
Unenoumbered balanoe
1
8, noon.
special representatives as fumy
Admiral Togo.
112
3, 7 D.m.
n
113
4, 10 a.m. Mr. Turner's leave.
114
4, 8 p.m.
Ambassador Grew not to attend
Admiral Togo as special repres
115
" 5, noon.
Ambassador Grew will attend rumerel
Admiral Togo as special represemet
116
* 5, 8 p.m.
Telegram for Morgenthau from mogors.
117
" 6, 3 p.m.
Ambassador Grew as special representative
at funeral of Admiral Togo.
118
" 8, 4 p.m.
Telegram for Morgenthau from Rogers.
119
n 9, 11 a.m.
n
17
n
120
" 9, noon.
Preliminary Naval Conversations.
121
" 9, 1 pom.
Japanese Cabinet situation.
121
" 13, 5 p.m.
I.umored meeting between the President and
Japanese officials at Hawaii.
123
" 13, 8 pom.
Telegram ror Morgenthau from Rogers.
124
" 14, 5 p.m.
TY
1e
125
15,10
Felegrun Prom Rogers.
126
" 15, 3 p.m.
From the Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
127
" 15, 8 p.m.
Telegram for Morgenthau from Rogers.
128
" 18, noon.
Rumored meeting between the President and
Japanese officials at Hawaii.
129
18,3 
From Comercial Attaché for Commerce.
130
" 21, 11 u.m. Diplomatic pouches.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.93)
22, 1 p.m.
theUnited
,B p.m.
Statendht of cap
preliminary paval
183
23, 1 p.m,
Ack. receips of cipher
154
23, 1 p.m.
135
23, 1 p.m.
136
27, 7 p.m.
Japaneae Cabinet situation.
137
29, 11 a.m. Japanese shippings
188
29, noon.
Personel telegram for Hornbeok and
Moffat from Ambassador Grew.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.96)
Visit or Prince
noom
Visit of Professer
Japanese poltoy toward Mhin
77p.m
18, 6 p.m.
Frenoh Government's
china polioy.
Visit of Prince Konoye to the t
16, noon.
17, 10 a.m.
Shipment of effects of Mr, nd
17, 11 a.m.
Airplane flight of pr. light
96
21, 4 p.m.
Arrest of Mr. Kuroda, Viee Minister or
Finance.
97 22, 7 p.m.
Recognition of Manohukuo by Salvador.
98
 23, 3 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese rapproohement,
99
" 23, 5 p.m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U.S.
100
* 25, noon.
Visit of Major Crane to Manohuria.
Informal statement of Vice Adniral Sakano,
101
* 25, 6 p.m.
spokesman of the Navy Department.
102
n 29, 11 a.m.
Information concerning Denzel Carr.
103
" 30, 6 p.m.
Message of condolence on death of
Admiral Togo.
104
n 31, 10 a.m.
Preliminary Neval Conversations.
Naval representation at funeral of Admiral
105
" 31, noon.
Togo.
106
 31, 1 p.m.
Narcotics Drugs Gonvention of 1931
