894.61A Agriculture., Japan, Agriculture Adviser., November 25, 1949 (File 1791)
ID: 894.61A-1791   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.61a-agriculture-japan-agriculture-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
120

INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
120

Assigned to: [illegible]
Action Taken: [illegible]
FROM: USPO
Date of mailing: November 25, 1949
Rec'd: Dec. 2, 1949

UNCLASSIFIED
Date of Action: Dec. 4, 1949
Action: [illegible]
Secretary of State: [illegible]
Washington: [illegible]

A-321, November 25, 1949

Following news item released November 22, 1949, by Public Affairs Office, General Headquarters, (U.S.) Far East Command, Tokyo, "Re: and ing "Activities of Farm Advisers in Japan:"

"A survey of activities under the Agricultural Extension System was recently completed in various prefectures by a staff member of the Agricultural Division, Natural Resources Section. The following statement of the work of farm advisers is based on his findings:

More than 6,000 agricultural extension personnel reach every rural community of the land, about one for each thousand farm households, and on them may well expand the future of the gains made by Japanese rural families under policies of the Occupation.

An encouraging factor is that most farm advisers are relatively young, amenable to training as carers, men in the field.

Training in extension methods was started by Natural Resources Section specialists in April 1948 in a farming school for Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry personnel selected for positions in the Agriculture Improvement Bureau, which was then still in the planning stage, and for candidates for positions as extension method specialist sent in from the prefectures.

Such basic material was furnished those attending the school which they in turn used in regional and prefectural schools for the temporary emergency food increase to the nicians, most of whom have since qualified as current farm advisers. Since then a steady flow of information on training materials such as booklets, pamphlets, etc. has been

PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

DEC 13 1949
FILLED
894.61A/11-2549

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's A-321,
November 25, 1949.

- 2 -

and adaptations of American publications on extension principles and methods, and items prepared by Natural Resources Section personnel, has gone out to the prefectures for follow-up work.

"In each of the prefectures visited two- to three-day short courses for farm advisors have been held every other week, and at least one two-week course has been conducted. Some of them were held on a prefectural basis, but most of them for smaller groups throughout the prefecture. Usually the agricultural improvement committee members attend these courses. The training is conducted by the director of extension, subject-matter specialists, and extension method specialists.

"The farm advisers in the prefectures visited maintain a busy schedule. Each adviser visits from 75-150 farms, conducts an average of eight farmer meetings with an average attendance of 30 farmers, and conducts four farm demonstrations a month. They are making a systematic effort to call on every farmer in their respective areas during the first year for the purpose of getting personally acquainted and to inform them of the new extension program.

"Farmer interest is growing and the demands for advisers service increasing. Advisers frequently complained that the two upon their time and energies was becoming too great and should be relieved by the assignment of additional personnel. The advisers meet with the area agricultural improvement committee once a month to discuss activities of the previous month and plans for the next.

"Subjects discussed and programs planned are usually those outlined in the "Extension News", published by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and the monthly bulletin on currently important farm subjects put out by the agricultural improvement section of the prefecture. In addition, the advisers in some areas from time to time publish material of special interest for use in their field work.

"The advisers' offices were generally well located and equipped with charts, graphs, colorful posters and available bulletins. Quarters and other facilities are usually furnished by the area committee by locally raised funds.

"Frequently the office is in or near an agricultural committee; sometimes in the village office. In a few instances the buildings had been constructed or were planned for the first anniversary office. Many agricultural cooperatives have made plans and other material contributions.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo's A-321,
November 25, 1949

- 3 -

Most farm advisory offices do not have clerical help. Since all advisers are frequently out on field work, the importance of having the office covered at all times by someone competent to interview callers was stressed. The number of farmers visiting the office, or calling by telephone, is steadily increasing. Several of the areas of issues are making this problem to an extent by putting up a box at the door to receive callers' notes on the purpose of their visit. If a request is made for help, it is promptly given.

Other ingenious devices are being employed by the callers in promoting their work. Advisers in one area are a red-bordered card at the hour of farmers' food, stating the purpose of the visit, announcing the next meeting, or calling attention to some crop conditions observed. The advisers of several areas ride bicycles against green and seem proud to be known as "the green bicycles"; others wear green arm bands for identification purposes.

Altogether the most encouraging aspect of the program is observed on this trip in the enthusiasts who say the farm advisers have started on their difficult arrangements.

SEPALD

52.
CHEOCHRINGER: 183

UNCLASSIFIED
