894.00R Political Affairs., Japan, Relief., October 3, 1945 - December 31, 1949 (File 1839)
ID: 894.00R-1839   Pages: 6   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00r-political-affairs-japan
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DAMAGE CORPORATION
WASHINGTON

RECEIVED
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES

1945 OCT 4 PM 3 42

OCT - 3 1945

894.00R/10-345

894.00R/10-345

Honorable James F. Byrnes,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Byrnes:

With the thought that it would be of interest to you, we are pleased to enclose copy of our letter of September 28, 1945 to the Honorable Millard E. Tydings, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Territories and Insular Affairs, relating to a survey recently completed for War Damage Corporation of war damage to property in the Philippine Islands.

A copy of a statement concerning the background of the three Special Investigators who compiled the report, the directive pursuant to which they acted, a summary of their report and recommendations, and a recapitulation of all losses in the Philippine Islands and estimated number of claims are also enclosed.

Very truly yours,

H. A. Mulligan,
President.

Enclosures.

FOR VICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATES
WAR
BONDS
AND
STAMPS

894.00R/10-345
FILED
OCT 1 1945
894.00R/10-345
CS/

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00R/12-3149
FILED
FEB 2 1950
AT ___ O'CLOCK ____
ROY H. JOHNSON
CLERK

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
894.00R/12-3149

C. Tokyo, December 31, 1949.

S
REC'D
JAN 11

ACTION
FE

INFO
DCR
OLI
OFD
ITP

sum

CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: Utilization of U. S. Aid Counterpart Fund.

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to enclose a copy of a memorandum of a conversation which I had on December 27, 1949, with Mr. Hisato ICHIMADA, Governor of the Bank of Japan, regarding the use of the United States Aid Counterpart Fund. Mr. Ichimada stated that, in view of the fact that Japanese banks have currently extended loans up to 90 per cent of their deposits and face credit demands which are beyond their capacity to meet with safety, he regarded as urgent the expeditious complete utilization of the Counterpart Fund. He implied that the Fund was partially idle and blamed working-level personnel in the Economic and Scientific Section (ESS), General Headquarters, for the fulfillment of onerous standards for Fund credit accommodation.

In connection with Governor Ichimada's statements, it will be noted that as of December 26, 1949, a total of 100.8 billion yen had been deposited by the Japanese Government in the Counterpart Fund. As of the same date, disbursements totalled 96.6 billion yen, thus leaving a balance on hand of 4.2 billion yen. For purposes of record, the following figures are given with respect to disbursements: (a) Government debt retirement, 38.9 billion yen; (b) purchase of food certificates, 34.7 billion yen; (c) loans to Japanese Government Railways, 12.7 billion yen; (d) loans to Japanese Government Communications Ministry, 8.3 billion yen; and (e) loans to private companies, 2.0 billion yen.

It is possible that Governor Ichimada's criticism is directed at the manner in which the Fund is being invested rather than its partial investment. He has indicated that other officers of this Mission that he considers that the amount allocated to debt retirement might profitably have been diverted either to direct investment in industry or indirectly to industry through Japanese banking channels.

Officials of the ESS Japanese Finance Division state that, in accordance with directives from the concerned United States Government agencies, the Fund is being used primarily for purposes of financial

CONFIDENTIAL

ACTION COPY

RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 914,
December 31, 1949.

- 2 -

financial stabilization. Japanese bank loans and deposits are expanding steadily; the total money supply is increasing and while the acute inflation of 1948 has been arrested, inflationary factors are checked rather than reversed. Hence, ESS is insistent on investing the Counterpart Fund in such a manner that inflationary forces are not reinforced.

In a public statement made on December 27, 1949, Finance Minister Hayato IKEDA pointed out that Counterpart Fund assistance was urgently needed in three industries, namely, shipbuilding, electric power and coal mining. Loans totalling 8.6 billion yen for shipbuilding and 4.5 billion yen for electric power were promptly approved by General Headquarters; they will be forthcoming as soon as the Japanese Government makes additional payments into the Counterpart Fund. Loans for coal mining were rejected, however. Minister Ikeda subsequently expressed complete satisfaction with these decisions, including the rejection of assistance to the coal mining companies.

With regard to the complexity of procedure required in order to secure a Counterpart Fund loan, it may be noted that the Japanese Ministry of Finance prescribed this procedure. ESS, in reviewing the forms, noted that they were cumbersome but agreed to their use in as much as the requirement for presentation of all essential data was met. In view of the clearly established need for a simplified credit request, ESS on December 21, 1949, directed the Finance Minister to adopt a simplified application form. The new procedure is now in effect; for details see the enclosed copy of a memorandum dated December 21, 1949, sent by Major General W. F. MARQUAT, Chief, ESS, to the Chief of Staff, General Headquarters, SCAP.

The criticisms of Governor Ichimada may stem from his desire to control the use of Counterpart Fund loans. He has indicated that he believes that this operation is primarily a banking function and in as much as he is concurrently Chairman of the Policy Board of the Bank of Japan, which is charged with the responsibility of determining Japanese monetary and credit policies, he should have control over the investment of Counterpart Fund loans.

Respectfully yours,

W. J. Sebald

Enclosures:

1. Copy of memorandum of Conversation dated December 27, 1949, on subject "Use of Counterpart Fund";
2. Copy of memorandum dated December 21, 1949, from Chief, ESS, to Chief of Staff, GHQ, SCAP, on subject "Procedure for Making Loans from the Counterpart Fund."

Parchment Mat to Department.
500
WWDiehl:lee

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 914, December 31, 1949, from the Office of the U.S. Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Utilization of U.S. Aid Counterpart Fund."

(COPY)

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

Tokyo, December 27, 1949.

Subject: Use of Counterpart Fund

Participants: Mr. Hisato Ichimada, Governor of the Bank of Japan
Mr. W. J. Sebald

Mr. Hisato Ichimada, Governor of the Bank of Japan, in an informal conversation with me today commented upon what he termed the inefficient use of the counterpart fund. He said that the Japanese commercial banks, on an average, have already loaned out approximately 90% of their total deposits, some of the larger banks having loaned a full 100%. He said that this contrasts with good Japanese banking practice of lending out not more than approximately 60% of deposits (between 30% and 40% in the United States).

Mr. Ichimada said that the Japanese economy cannot afford to have the huge amounts of the counterpart fund (allocated in the budget for industry) tied up as idle, unused money, and that some system should be devised to expedite the granting of loans to industries which need money for rehabilitation and improvement of their plants. He said that the present procedures require highly detailed and complex statistical data, and that an average application might take as long as six months to one year before it is granted. As a suggestion, he thought it might be well if applications could be given a rough screening in order to determine in the shortest possible space of time whether a loan will or will not be granted. In the former case, he believes that some 50% or more of the loan should immediately be advanced, with the balance of the loan to be granted when a more careful and final screening has been made.

Mr. Ichimada ventured the opinion that unless some amelioration of the credit system is immediately made possible by pumping available counterpart funds into the Japanese economy, financial panic is not only possible but probable. He feels that the banking structure is so weak under present conditions that it cannot stand additional strain. As a further consequence, the weak banking structure makes it inevitable that foreign short-term loans will be refused.

When questioned as to the reasons for this situation, Mr. Ichimada blamed the detailed standards formulated by the working-level officials of ESS.

W. J. Sebald

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 914, December 31, 1949, from the Office of the U.S. Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Utilization of U.S. Aid Counterpart Fund."

(COPY)

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section

21 December 1949

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Staff

PROCEDURE FOR MAKING LOANS FROM THE COUNTERPART FUND

As a result of the experience gained in processing the various applications and in accordance with the recommendations made by Mr. Dodge in his memoranda of 3 December and 4 December, the corresponding description of a simplified procedure, described below, for processing applications for loans from the Counterpart Fund. This simplified procedure is based on the principles given in necessary information should be eliminated from the application and the number of agencies reviewing the applications is not that in accordance with Mr. Dodge's memorandum of 4 December. The procedure must still be such that "the fund can, of course, be turned in and off" and that the ability to initiate the necessary measures and to control fiscal policy between the same be protected.

In accordance with these principles the following procedure is to be developed:

(1) A statement of the amount of loan required.

(2) Dates on which funds will be required to meet the specific power industry, approval will be given on a basis which approval to be given to the maximum amount of funds to be made available for each program and with the specific price within each program being listed. After program approval the individual applications will be reduced to only a statement of the following information:

(3) A statement of the amount of loan required.

(4) A statement of certification that the amounts to be obtained from private sources (70% on conversion, 50% on salvage) has been arranged for and names of banks or other sources from which funds will be obtained with amounts to be supplied by each and dates on which funds are expected to be secured.

(5) A statement of the security to be offered against the proposed Counterpart Fund loans.

Upon

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 914,
December 31, 1949.

- 2 -

Upon receipt of such an application, the Public Finance Division will review it only for conformance to the approved program and to the approved terms and conditions, and approve it if it so conforms without reference to other divisions or sections.

b. With respect to loans to small business, ¥ 300 million a quarter for the next 5 quarters will be made available to the Bank of Japan to be loaned by it on a participating basis and in accordance with general terms and conditions previously established, without further reference to the Ministry of Finance or ESS.

c. Loans for private housing will be made, if required, by subscription to the capital of a government housing corporation for which subscription approval has already been given in connection with approval of the 50-51 Japanese Government Budget. Such capital will be advanced to the corporation as required with the individual applications being processed by the corporation with only the requirement for approval by the Public Finance Division of each advance.

d. It is anticipated that the above programs will substantially exhaust the funds available for private investment. However, provision will be made for the submission to ESS of a preliminary short summary form of application in any other cases deemed suitable by the Japanese Government. Fund limitations will probably require denial of most such applications. However, in the event a particular case appears suitable for a loan, a request for such specific additional information as appears necessary will be requested and a decision reached on the basis of that information in accordance with present procedures.

W. F. MARQUAT
Major General, U.S. Army
Chief, Economic and Scientific Section

CONFIDENTIAL
