894.403 Social Matters., Japan, Fine Arts., September 29, 1947 - August 25, 1949 (File 1758)
ID: 894.403-1758   Pages: 172   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.403-social-matters-japan-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.83)
L reply reter t
Nhm
EEHDAMDIN TO TIG SHONETARY, SWHDO
Subjoet: Prepesed Peliey Statemsnt en Roplasseeet
of Gulturul Cbjests
894.403/9-2947
Attmched is a proposed peliey ststesent on
this subjeet representing the views of the Stato
Department. It is requested thst the paper be re
ferred to the Subeommistes for the Far East for
comsideration.
Gharles E. Sal tman
State Deparéasat Zkalser
State-War-Havy Coordinating Goweitteo
S
Att.
CONFIDENTIAL
10
De
OPAN
QPH
E:HLBakersbeo/gp
9/29/47
NA
ADO
A-8
8
2052
3184

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
?
CONPIDENTIAL
COVIRENTIAL
PROPOBED SWNCC PAPER
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS.
THE PROBIEN
1. To stats U. S. policy with respect to replacement of cultumal
whicl were
objects mantonly destroyed or removed from Allied coumtries during
whieh have ust bem found.
the period of Japanese aggression and not recovered.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
DISCUBSION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONC LUS IONS
4. It is coneluded that:
A. Pelicy herein is supplementary to and not in derogation of
accepted poliey decisions releting to restitution of identifiable looted
property.
B. The Japanese Government should be required to replase oul-
tural objects wantonly destroyed or removed from Allied countries during
ond not rivce found,
periods of Japanese military aggression against their territories as
required below.
C. Cultural objeots are defined to inelude all movable objeets
of ertistie, historicsl, religious, or educational character, including
collections of booke, which are irreplmeeable through normal channels of
production end commeree.
D. Allied countries attacked or occupied by the Japanese which
elaim replasement should provide reasonable ovidenee that eultural objects
were removed er wantonly destroyed aa a direet or indireet result of
Japanese operations or oceupation and have not been found. Sueh evidence
should show, in reasonable detail, amounts, kinds, and quality of sultural
objeets lcst. In ceses of doubt concerning the adequaey of evidance
previded
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
GONKIURNTIAL
GORVIMENTIAL
in suppert of & alaim, the presumptiom shsuld be im faver of the
elaimant country.
I. Claime for replasement of spesirie cmisal objets, sh
approved, should be satisfied by the Japanese Governmess by previding
cultural objeets of subetantially equivalent aharaeter and oultusal
value held eithr by Japanese publie institutions or Japanese indiviâuals
whose property is subjeet to seisure because of their wertime eetivisiss.
Property belenging to Japenese publie institutions will net be nsed to
fulfill claims for replacement of privately osned cultural objects.
F. Replacement in subatantial equivalents as indicated in
Paragraph E. above should not include:
(1) Culturel iteme designated by the Japanese Govern-
ment es Nationel Tressures prior to 193l rogerdless of
origin or omership, or designated as Japanese Nstienal
Treasures after 193l, if they ere of Japanese origin er
were owned by Japanese public inatitutions or private
individuals prior to 1894.
(2) Iteme required by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to accomplish the objectives of the oceu-
pation, particularly with respeet to the progrem of
demoeratimmtion and rosducation of the Japansse people.
G. The SCAP should be authorised, at his diseretion, to seoure
the advice end assistanee of autherised restitution ropresentatives of
elaimant countries to aseure equitable implementation, in the light of
established precedents, of the foregoing polioy, partiealarly es it relates
to approval of elaims and determimstien of standards fer the substantial
equivelents mentiomed in Paragraph E. ebove.
RECOMIREDATIONS
-2.
OCERIDENTIAL

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.87)
GOHEIDENTIAL
-3-
SOIZIEENTIAL
BEGLGIBENDATICIE
5. It is reccmmended thats
A. The Conelusiens in Peregraph 4 be approved by SWncC,
B. Upon approval, this paper be transmitted to the Var and
Navy Departments for their informetion;
C. Upon approval, the Conelusions in Paragraph 4 above be
tranamitted by the State Department to the U. S. Mamber, FiC, as a
statement of the U. S. pesitiom on this matter, but with authority to
accept minor ahanges which will not alter its substance or intent.
B:JEoDonald/HLBaker:boo/gp
NA
ADO
A-8
-3-
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
CONZIDENTIAL
CONVIDETIAL
APPENDIX "A"
KACTS BEARING ON THE PRODIEN
A. Statemente of Prinaiele vith Respent to Renlagement ef Cultual Premsrty.
1. Letter from the Seeretary of State, Cordell liull, to President
Frenklin D. Ressevelt, dated Jume 21 (840.403.14 1/2); paraghsasod im
letter from Seeretary of State Cordell Hall, to Viee-Chairman of the
Ameriean Commission, David E. Finley, dated July 16, 1963 and in the
Department of State Bulletin, August 21, 1943:
"B. At the time of the Armistise:
"1. The Amorioan Commission for the Proteetiom and
Salvage of Artistie and Historie Monuments should urge
that the Armistice terms inelude the restitutien of publie
property appropriated by the Axis Powers. Where it is not
poasible to restore sush prop: rty vithor besause it has
been destroyed or cannot be found, restitution in kind
should be made by the Axis Powers to the countries from
whieh the property has been taken. In such eases, the
Commiesion should recommand e list of equivalent works of
art or historie documents which should be transferred to
the invaded countries from Axis museums or from the private
colleetions of Axis leadors.
"ii. The Commiesion should urge that restitutiom be
made of private property appropriated by the Axis Nations."
B. Japenese National Treagures
In the ninetesnth century the Japanese government began to inventery
ebjeets of especial eulturel importance, and to apply messures for their
preservation. The responsibility of the government in ensuring the
preservation of cultural possessions of unique worth was firet reeogmised
with the promulgation of the "Old Shrines and Temples Preservation Law," in
1872.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
1872. In 1897, the Cemmiesiem for the Freservatiem of 8d Temples
was established, and the prastiee of listing spesifie "Matienal
Treasures" instituted.
Until 1929, the list mas limited to ebjests in the pessessiem of
shrimes and tomples, but in that year it was extended to priately-
owned and nom-eeclesiastical objests, primarily in order to halt the
sale abroed by private sollectors of espesially valuable itens. This
extension did not markedly accelerate the rate of accessions to the
list. An iden of the growth of the list can be gained frem the follew-
ing table, showing the number of national treasures at several differemt
dates:
1897.....155
1905..... 1,376
1920..... 3,103
1929.....3,700
1938.....4,913
In 1938, the 4,913 national treasures listed were distributed as
follows: paintings, 870; soulptures, 1907, minor arts, 381; awords,
362; books and manusoripts, 398.
The lster lists may well inolude objeets acquired as a result of
Japanese aggreesion; but they also include cbjects of genuine Japenese
origin, or of long-established Japaness ownership whieh had not beem
listed is carlier yeare because of the restriction of the law to
ecclesiastical property. Since the records of important ert objests in
Japan are very comolete, the determination of the origin end the owmerehip
for the past half-century of a partieuler object elassified as a metienal
treasure will usumlly present no diffioultims.
C. Diegugaion FEC
Thie paper, exeept for Paragraph G, has had prelimimary diseussiem
in the committee No. 1 of the Far Eastern Commission, where substantiml
agreement on the prinoiples is embodies hms been revealed. In the course
of
-2 -
Appendix "A"
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
of the diseussion, it was mde elear by the offisials of the Bepartmsmt
of State whe partisipated thet the position of this govermment hed
not been forsulated and thet the views they expressed were persemal.
fepresentatives of certain other powers also participated om this bmsis
and abstained from teking a formml positiem pending receipt of imstrus-
tion from tlieir governments. Nevortheless, considerable progress tomard
finol agreement appears to have been made, and the draft paper has been
referred to the Stesring Committee. The early formulatiom of the pomi-
tion of the Uaited States Government thus becomes a matter of same
urgeney.
一3
CONFIDENTIAL
Appondix "A"

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
CONPIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
DISCISSION
1. This paper is intended to supploment the restitution pelisies
included in Pc nll/12, by establishing certain policies for the re-
placement of cultursl objects wantonly destroyed or removed from Allied
coumtries as a consequence of Japanese aggression.
2. The application of the principles of this paper is limited to
the relatively narrow category of cultural objects, defined as items of
artistic, historical, religious or educational character, including col-
lections of books, which are irreplaceable through commercial chammels.
As a result of Japanese astion, large numbers of cultural objests were
wantonly destroyed or removed from the countries cccupied by Japanese
forces. The primmry importance of these objects did not lie in their
economie value but in the public cultural purposes they served. Compen-
sation wader ordinary reparation principles is therefore not pessible;
it can be effeeted only under e principle of replacement in kind from
stocks of similar items in Japan.
3. The policies ineorporated in this paper are intended to previde
to the countries which have suffered losses of cultural objects as a
result of Japenese action, maximum replacement from cultural objeets in
Japan, consistent with the maintenance in Japan of uniquely valuable eul-
tural treasures of Jepanese origin, or of long-established Japanese owner-
shin, end a generel stock of cultural objects adequate to meet the require-
ments of the oceupation - particularly with respect to the demoeratisation
and reedueation of the Japanese people.
4. The effect of this paper, taken in conjunction with F8C-Oll/12
which it is designed to supplement, would be to establish two methods of
relief for the lose of culturel objects resulting from Japanese occupatiom
of Allied countries. These methode would bes
(C)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
(a) restitution of specifle objeets if they ean be foumds
(b) replacement by oulturel objects of roughly equiwalemt
character and eultural velue, if sueh equivalents om be
found and are appropriately available.
5. The degree of liability of the Japanese government under these
procedures would vary.
(e) Liability of the Japanese government under (a) is ab-
solute, under the procedures of FEC-Oll/12.
(b) Exempted from the liability of the Japanese Governmemt
under (b) are any cultural items:
(1) designated by the Japanese Government as national
treasures prior to 193l or designated as Japanese
National Treasures efter 1931 if they are of
Jepanese origin cr were owned by Japanese publie
institutions or rivate ommers prior to 1894.
(2) required by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers to accomplish the objectives of the osen-
petion, particularly with reepect to the program
of democratisation and reeducation of the Japanese
people.
6. Several of the member nations of the Far Eastern Commission have
suggested, with considerable insistence, that cultural objects lost as a
result of Japanese aggression be replaced from a generel stock of cultural
objects collected in Japan regardless of origin or present ownership. The
indiscriminate collection of cultural itews, regardless of owmership, for
the purpose of replacement is not consistent with United States poliey.
For this reason only two categories of property should be mede available
for replacement of lost cultural items. They are:
(1) Cultural
-2 •
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
(1) Culturel items whieh ere the preparty of publie
institutions vith exceptions listed in Paragrmph 5.
(2) Cultural items among the property of individuals
whese property is subject to seisurs because of their
wartime activitiss. Persons convicted of mr erimes
by the War Crimes Tribunal may, as a part of their
sentenee, have their property confiseated. Under the
provisiens of puragraph E of the conclusions, wuch
property would be available to replace lost items.
7. Colleetions of cultural objects owned by publie fnstitutions
in Japan should not be used to satisfy elaims of private individuals
for replacement of lest objeots. It would be inconsistent with the
conservation of cultural property and not consonant with publie inter-
est if publie collections were dispersed or pass from publie to private
possession. It would deprive not only the people of enemy mations but
also the publie of all nations of access to these materials. It is
obvious that collections of oublie institutions as the Uffisi Paleee
useum in Florenee and the Kaiser Friedrich Museum in Berlin are an
interoational heritage preserved under publie trust for all people.
This is equally true of the Imperial Household Muesume of Tokye end Mare,
although these collections may not be as generelly kmown. Fellowing
World har I the only replecement of cultural property mmde wes that of
the colleetions of the University of Louvain Library (Artiels 247 of the
Treaty of Versailles).
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
Me Itawell
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
waee yn leoe
cns. it
DATE: February 24,
TO
Mr. Butterworth
1948.
FROM :
Mr. Penfield
SUBJECT:
Replacement of Cultural Objects (Japan) (SANACC 385 and
SFE 202 Series)
CONFIDENTIAL
As fer as I can determine the arguments in favor of this
paper are:
(1) There is precedent for it in the Italian treaty.
(2) The Secretary of State in 1943 urged upon the Presi-
dent and upon the American Commission for the Protection and
Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments adoption of a
policy subetantially the same as that proposed in the attached
file.
DC,R
This Documeot Most
(3) Implementation of the policy would provide a means
for rehabilitating Chinese university and other public libraries
a matter of some 1mportance to the US from a long-term point of
view, without substantial harm to Japanese culture.
894.403/2
(4) There is great pressure, especially by the Chinese and the
Dutch, for edoption of the policy.
The chief arguments against the adoption of the paper as
set forth by the Army Department are:
(1) SCAP is opposed to it.
-24
Comment: SCAP's opposition is not supported by any reason
and it is not unreasonable to suppose that it is based solely
on its desire to avoid the administrative difficulties involved
48
in implementing the policy.
(2) The policy could set a precedent for restitution in
kind of all types of meterials and commodities.
Comment: This disadvsntage has not apparently risen in
connection with the similar provisions in the Italian treaty
and in view of the special nature of the cultural objects af-
fected this would seem to be rather a farfetched fear.
(3) Implementation of the policy would alienate Japanese
goodwill toward the US.
Aco
S
Commeet:
161
工
CONFIDENTIAL
5
2
2
2
3

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTI AL
-2-
Comment: Although the policy would be an Allied (FEC)
one, and none of the removels effected under it would be for
American benefit, any unfavorable Japanese reaction would
undoubtedly be directed to some extent against the Us be-
cause of our position there. In addition to the rather
surprising attitude evidenced by expression of great concern
over endangering Japanese goodwill to the US in connection
with a reletively minor matter, it is hard to believe that
the removal of Japenese cultural objects not of sufficient
importance to warrant classification es national treasures
could have any very substential effect upon Japanese
national feelings.
(4) There is no information aveilable as to the number
or velue of claims that might be forthcoming.
Comment: Although this objection seems valid it appears
to have been met by provision in the proposed paper giving
SCAP very extensive administrative control over the implementa-
tion of tne policy.
If the above are the only substantial considerations in-
volved in this paper it would seem to me thet the Army's ob-
jections are not well founded. I have mentioned this subject
to Marshall Green and it may be that he will be able to obtain
some more definite reactions on it in Tokyo. In any event,
we shall keep it in the Fer East Subcommittee until after
Kennan's return.
CONFIDENTIAL
FE:JKPenfield:hst

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
20
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SFE 202/2
19
February 1948
Pages
1 and 2.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING SUACOMMITTEE
FOR
THE
FAR
EAST
REPLACEHENT CF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
References:
a. SANACC 385
b. SANACC 385/1
C. SFE 202
ā. SFE 202/1
Note by the Secretary
The enclosure, a memorandum by the CAD Member, is circulated
for consideration by the Subcommittee.
J. B. CRESAP
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
MEMORANDUM BY THE CAD MEMBER
REPLACEMENT
CF
CULTURAL UBJECTS (JAPAN)
1. The CAD member neither favors the original propcsal con-
tained in SANACC 385 nor the modified version contained in SFE
202/1 for the following reasons:
a. The U. S. has agreed that the Japanese will make
reparations in kind and thot the Japanese will restore iden-
tifiable looted property. Going beyond these twc agreements
and making restitution in ind of cultural objects cculd
serve to alienate Japanese good will from the U. S. and set
a precedent for restitution in kind of all types cf material
and conmodities.
b. The linited quid pro quo accruing to the U. S. from
the FEC nations concerned would appear to be more than off-
set by the alienation of Japanese good will towards the U.S.
c. The carrying cut of restitution in kind would be
difficult to administer fairly, and SCAP has already in-
dicated that he would recommend the resoluticn (f such
matters in the Japanese peace settlement by a cultural ob-
jects tribunal of specialists.
d. Paras. 4. c.(1) and (2) of SFE 202/1, in the light of
reparations and restitution of identiflable prperty, give
undue favor to the claimant.
e. The Army has no information as to the nunber ur value
of clains that might be fortheoming if such a pclicy were
approved.
If such claims were extensive, presunably, the
Jepenese government would have to previde sone yen payment
or credit to Japanese owners of cultural cbjects whose pro-
perty was to be used for restitution in kind -- thus lessen-
ing the already deflated value of the yen.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
MEMORANDUM BY THE CAD MEMBER
REPLACEMENT CF CULTURAL UBJECTS (JAPAN)
1. The CAD member neither favors the original propcsal con-
tained in SANACC 385 nor the modified version contained in SFE
202/1 for the following reasons:
a. The U. S. has agreed thet the Japanese will make
reparations in kind and thct the Japanese will restore iden-
tifiable looted property. Going beyond these twc agreements
and making restitution in  ind of cultural objects cculd
serve to alienate Japanese good will from the U. S. and set
a precedent for restitution in kind of all types cf material
and commodities.
b. The limited quid pro quo accruing to the U. S. from
the FEC notions concerned would appear to be more than off-
set by the alienation of Japanese good will towards the U.S.
c. The carrying cut of restitution in kind would be
difficult tc administer fairly, and SCAP has already in-
dicated that he would recommend the resoluticn (f such
matters in the Japanese peace settlenent by a cultural ob-
jects tribunal of specialists.
d. Paras. 4. c.(1) and (2) of SFE 202/1, in the light of
reparations and restitution of identifiable prperty, give
undue favor to the claimant.
e. The Army has no informetion es to the nunber ur value
of clains that might be fortheoming if such a pclicy were
approved.
If such claims were extensive, presunably, the
Jopenese government would have to prcvide some yen payment
or credit to Japanese owners of cultural cbjects whcse pro-
perty was to be used for restitution in kind -- thus lessen-
ing the already deflated value of the yen.
2。
The CAD member has been dvised by Mr. Burr Smith
SFE 202/2
-1-
Enclosure
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
(speaking for the Department of State) that his department cannot
concur in the proposal to withdraw SANACC 385 as modified by SFE
202/1, which recommendation was contained in SFE 202. Therefore
it is recommended that divergent views of the two departments
be promptly presented to SANACC for resolution.
3. The P&o member concurs in the recommendation contained
in para. 2. above.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.89)
34
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SANA0O 385
21 0ctober 1947
Pa es 1 - 9. incl.
STADE-ARIY-HAVY-AIR FORCE COORDILHATING COLMITTEE
REPLACEIE  OF CULTURAL OBJEOTS (JAPA)
Roto by the Secretcaies
 me oruve,  soud b e state Depertment presonted
 se Suate Henber, has been Peserrea to the Stato-Army-Navy-
Air Foree Cvord mating Subcommmittee for the For East for recom-
. W. MOSELEY
. A. SOHULGEN
Y. L. LORAOE
Secretarlut

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENC.LOSURE
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS
Study by the Department of State
THE PROBLEM
1. To state U. S. policy with respect to replacenent of
culturel objects which vere vantonly destroyed or removed fron
Allied countries uring the period of Japanese aggression and
whiek have not been found.
FAOTS BEARERG ON PHE PROBLEM
8. Seu appondix "A".
DISOUSSION
3. Sou Appencix "B".
COOLUSIONS
4. It is conoluded that:
a. Policy herein is supplomentary to and not in
derogation or necepted policy decisions relating to
stitution of identiriable looted property.
R. The Japanese Governient should be required to
replace cultural objeets wantonly destroyed or renoved
fro allied countries during periods of Japanese militery
cegression aguinst their territories and not since found,
as Fequired below.
e. Culouaal objects ae derined to include all
movable objects of rtistic, historical, religious, or
sdues tional charagter, ineluding collections of books,
which are irreplaceable through nornal chonnels of
production and conmerce.
a. allied countries attacked or occupied by the
Japanese which clain replacement should provide reason-
able evidence that cultural objects were renoved or
Wantonly destroyed as a direct or indirect result of

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
CONELUENIE
ENCLOSURE
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS
Study by the Department of State
THE PROBLEM
1. To state U. S. policy with respect to replacement of
cultural objects which were vantonly destroyed or removed from
Allied countries curing the period of Japanese aggression and
whieh have not been found.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. Seu Appendix "A".
DISOUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
COHOLUSIONS
4. It is coneluded that:
a. Policy herein is supplementary to end not in
derogation of cccopted policy docisions relating to
stitution of identiriable looted property.
b. The Japanese Governnent should be required to
replace cultural objects wantonly destroyed or removed
fro Allied countries during periods of Japanese militery
cggression against thoir territories and not since found,
as Fequired below.
e. Culoural objoets as defined to include all
movable objccts of mrtistic, historicnl, religious, or
eduentional charngter, ineluding collections of books,
which are irreplaceable through nornal chonnels of
production and commerce.
a. alliud countries attacked or occupied by she
Japanese which clain replacement should provide reason-
able evidence that cultural objects were renoved or
Wntonly destroyed as  direct or indirect result of
BaA00 585
-1-
Enclosure
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese operations or occupation and have not been found.
Such ovidence should show, in reasonable detail, amounts,
kinds, and quality of cultural objects lost. In cases of
doubt c?ncerning the adequacy of evidence provided in
support of a claim, the presuption should be in favor of
the claimant country.
三
Clains for replacenent of specific cultural objects,
when ap roved, should be satisfied by the Japanese Govern-
ment by providing cultural objects of substantially equiva-
lent charucter and cultural value held either by Japanese
public institutions or Jupanese individuals whose property
is subject to seizure because of their wartine activities.
Property belonging to Japanese public institutions will not
be used to fulfill claims for replacement of privately owned
cultural objects.
f. Reolecement in substantial equivalents as indicated
in Paragraph . above shoula not include:
(1) Cultural isems designated by the Japanese
Government as National Treasures prior to 1931
Pegurdless of ori in op ownership, or designated as
Japanese Hational Treasmres after 195l, if they are
of Japanese origin or were owned by Japanese public
institutions or private individuals prior to 1894.
(2) Items required by the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers to accomplish the objectives of the
occupation, purticularly with respect to the progran
of demoeratization and reeaucation of the Japanese
people.
The SCAP should be authorized, at his descretion,
to secure the advice and assistance of authorized
Pestitution representatives of claimant countries to assure
equitable implementation, in the light of established
precedents, of the foregoing policy, particularly as it
lates to approval of claims and determination of standards

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese operations or occupation and have not been found.
Such ovidence should show, in reasonable detail, amounts,
kinds, and quality of cultural objects lost. In cases of
doubt cqncerning the adequacy of evidence provided in
support of a claim, the presu:ption should be in favor of
the claimant country.
. Clains for replacenent of specific cultural objects,
when approved, should be satisfied by the Japanese Govern-
ment by providing cultural objects of substantially equiva-
lent charucter and cultural value held either by Japanese
public institutions or Jupanese individuals whose property
is subject to seizure because of their wartine activities.
Property belonging to Japanese public institutions will not
be used to fulfill claims for replacenent of privately owned
cultural objects.
f. Reolacement in substential equivalents as indicated
in Paragraph . above shoula not inelude:
(1) Cultural items designated by the Japanese
Government as National Treasures prior to 1951
regaraless of ori in or ownership, or designated as
Japanese Hational Treasures after 1951, if they are
of Japansse origin or were owned by Japanese public
institutions or private individuals prior to 1894.
(2) Items pequived by the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers to accomplish the objectives of the
occupation, purticularly with respect to the progran
of democratization and reeaucation of the Japanese
people.
E. The SCAP should be authorized, at his descretion,
to secure the advice and assistance of authorized
Pestitution representatives of claimant countries to assure
cuuitable implementation, in the light of established
prucedents, of the foregoing policy, particularly as it
 lates to approval of claims and determination of standards
SANACO 385
-2-
Enclosure
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
for the substantial equivalents mentioned in Paragraph e.
above.
RECOILENDATIONS
5. It is recommonded that:
a. The Conclusions in Paragraph 4 be approved by
SAHACO;
2. Upen approval, this paper be transmitted to the
aray, Mvy, m ir Foree Departments for their information;
c. Upon approval, the Conclusions in Paragraph 4
above be transmitted by the State Department to the U.S.
Momber, Fsc,  s a statement of the U.S. position on this
matter, but with authority to accept minor changes which
will not ulter its substence or intent.
SANACO 585
- 3 -
Enclosure

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "A"
FAOTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
A.
Statements of Principlo With Respect to Replacement
of Cultural Property.
1. Letter from the Secretary of State, Cordell Hull,
to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, dated June 21
(840. 403.14 1/2); parapimased in letter fron Secretary
of S ute Coraell Hul , to Vice-Chuirman of the American
Commission, David E. Finley, dated July 16, 1943 and in
the Department of State Bulletin, August 2l, 1945:
 "B. at the time of the Armistice:
"i. The American Commission for the
Protection and Salvage or Aartistic and
Historic Konuments slould urge that the
Armistice terip include the restitution of
public roperty a  Popriuted by the Axis
Powers. Wiere it is not possible to restore
such property eitber because it has been
a stroyed or cannot be found, restitution in
Tind should be made by the Axis Powers to the
countrics fro. which the property has been taken.
In such cases, the Commission should recommend a
list of cquivalent works of art or historic
docusents which shoula be transferred to the
invaded countries fron Axis museuns or from the
private collections or Axis leaders.
"ii. The Commission should urge that
restitution be made of private property
appropriated by the Axis Nations."
B.
Japanese National Treasures.
In the nineteenth century the Japanese government
gun to inventory objects of especial cultural importance,
and to apply measures For their preservation. The responsibility

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
of the government in ensuring the preservation of oultural
possessions of unique worth was first recognized with the
promulgation of the "Old Shrines and Temples Preservation Law,"
in 1872. In 1897, the Commission for the Preservation of Old
Teliples was established, and the practice of listing specifio
"Nationai Treasures" instituted.
Until
1920, the list was limited to objects in the
possession of s rines und temples, but in that year it was
oxtended to privately-owned and non-ecclesiastical objeots,
pri..arily in order to hult the sale abroad by private collectors
of especially valuable items. This extension did not markedly
iccelerate the rate of accessions to the list. An idea of the
rowth of the list can be ain d fron the following table, show-
ing the number of national treasures at several different dates:
1397.....155
1305.....1,76
1920.....3,103
1929.....3,700
1938.....4,913
In 1958, the 4,915 national treasures listed were
distributcd as follows: paintings, 870; sculptures, 1907;
:inor arts, 361; swords, 362; books and manuscripts, 398.
The later lists may well include objects acquired as a
Fosult of Japanese aggression; but they also include objects
of genuine Japanese origin, or of long-established Japanese
ownership which had not been listed in earlier years because of
the restriction of the law to ccclesiustical property. Since
the records of important art objects in Japan are very complete,
the determination or the origin and the ownership for the past
calr-century of a particulur object classified as a national
treasure will usually present no difficulties.
C.
Discussion FEC
This paper, except for Paragraph g, has had preliminary

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
of the government in ensuring the preservation of oultural
possessions of unique worth was first recognized with the
promulgation of the "Old Shrines and Temples Preservation Law
in 1872. In 1897, the Commission for the Preservation of 01d
Temples was established, and the practice of listing speoifio
"Nationai Treasures" instituted.
Until 1929, the list was limited to objects in the
possession of sirines und temples, but in that year it was
extended to privately-owned and non-ecclesiastical objects,
pri.arily in order to hult the sale abroad by private collectors
of especially valuable items. This extension did not markedly
iccelerate the rate of accessions to the list. An idea of the
rowth of the list can be ain d fron the following table, show-
ing the nunber of national treasures at several different dates:
1397.....155
1305.....1,76
1920.....3,103
1929.....3,700
1938..4,913
In 1958, the 4,s15 national treasures listed were
distributed as follows: paintings, 870; sculptures, 1907;
:inor arts, 36l; swords, 362; books and manuscripts, 398.
The later lists may well include objects acquired as a
Fesult of Japanese aggression; but they also include objects
of enuine Japunese origin, or of long-established Japanese
ownership which hud not been listed in earlier years because of
che Pestriction of the law to ccclesiustical property. Since
the records of important art objects in Japan are very complete,
the determination of the origin and the ownership for the pust
halr-century of a particulur ooject classified as a national
treusure will usually present no difficulties.
C.
Discussion FEC
This paper, except for Paragraph g, has had preliminary
discussion in committee No. 1 of the Far Eastern Comnission,
SACC 385
- 5-
Appendix "A"
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
where subatantial agreement on the prinoiples it embodies he
been reveuled. In the course of the disoussion, it was mado
clear by the officials of the Department of State who partioi-
pated that the position of this government had not been
foimulated and that the views they expressed were personal.
Repres ntatives of certain other powers also participated on
tiis busis and abstained fron taking a fornal position pending
receipt of inst uction from their governnents. Nevertheless,
siderable progress toward final agreement appears to have
teen de, md the draft paper has been referred to the Steering
Ooitteu. he carly formulation of the position of the United
Stut. s Government thus becomes & matter of sone urgenoy.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
DISOUSSION
1. This paper is intended to supplement the restitution
policies included in FEc Oll/12, by estublishing certain policie
 the replacenent of cultural objects wantonly destroyed or
emoved fron Allied countries as a consequence of Japanese
ossion.
. The application of the principles or this paper is limit-
o voly n e e or or cul ourel objocts, dorined
s itos or ostistic, historicul, r ligious or educational
ciapr sr, incluaing collections of books, which are irreplace-
be t pu comerc al channels. As a result of Japenese action
large mubers of cultwal objects were wantonly destroyed or
reroved fro.. the countries pccupied by Japanese forces. The
ximy iportance or these pbjects did not lie in their economic
valus sut in the public cultural purposes they served. Compen-
sation unaer orsinary repuration Pinciples is therefore not
possible; it can be effected only under a principle of replace-
nt in kind mro sticis of sinilar itens in Japan.
3. The policles incorporated in this paper are intended to
prorice to the countries which have surfered losses of cultural
Osjects as a result of Japanese action, maximum replacenent from
cultural oojects in Japan, consistent with the maintenance in
Japan of uniquely valuable cultural treasures of Japanese origin,
o  lons-ustablished Japanese ownersip, and  general stock of
culturael objects adequate to teet the requirements of the pcoupa-
tion - pa ticulaly with respect to the denocratization end
Peeduc rtion or the Japanese people.
4. The effect or this paper. taken in conjunotion with
0-oll/12 which it is deaigned to supplenent, would be to
ustaolish two methods of relief for the loss of oultural objeot
resulting fron Japanese occupation of Allied countries. These

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
DISOUSSION
1. This paper is intended to supplement the restitution
policies included in FEC Oll/12, by establishing certain polio1o
for the replacement of cultural objects wantonly destroyed or
removed from Allied countries es a consequence of Japanese
ession.
2. The application of the principles of this paper is limit
o  psivoly nerrow csgory of culturel objects, dorined
is items or mrtistic, historicul, r ligious or educational
chpreser, including collections of books, which are irreplace-
be tou commerc nl channels. As a result of Japanese action,
lnrse muibers of cultural objects were wantonly destroyed or
reroved fro... the countries occupied by Japanese forces. The
imy mportaace or these pbjects did not lie in their economic
v lus ut in the public cultural purposes they served. Compen-
sation under orainary reporation rinciples is therefore not
possible; it can be effected only under a principle of replace-
it in kind mrom sticis of sinilar itens in Japan.
3. The pplicles ineorporated in this paper are intended to
prorice to the countrien which have surfered losses of cultural
obects as a result of Japanese action, maximum replacenent from
cultural jects in Japan, consistent with the maintenance in
Japan or uniquely valuasle cultural treasures of Japanese prigin,
  lons-uctablished Japnnese owners ip, and  general stock of
culturcl obgects adequate to teet the requirements of the acoupa-
tion - pa ticularly with respect to the democratization and
reeducttion or she Japanese people.
4. The efiect or this paper. taken in conjunetion with
0-cll/12 which it is cesigned to supplemont, would be to
wuto ish two methods of relief for the loss of cultural objeots
esulting fron Japanese occupation of Allied countries. These
BALIA0C 585
-7-
Appendix "B"
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
methods would be:
(a) rustitution of specific objects if they can
be found;
(b) replacement by cultural objects of roughly
equivalent cha cter and cultural value, if such
equivalents can be found and are appropriately avail-
able.
5. The cegpee of liability of the Japunese government
under these procedures would vary.
(a) Liability o the Japanese governaent under (a)
is absolute, u cer the pproccdures of FEC-ull/12.
(b) Exemyted iron the liability of the Japanese
Governent under (3) are any cultural items:
(1) designited by the Jape nese Government as
nati mal trr asures rior to is3l or designated as
Jupnese National Treases arfter 193l if they are
of Japanese origin or were owned by Japanese publio
institutions or private owners prior so 18s4.
(2) Paguired by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to accomplish the objectives of the
sccupation, oerticularly with respect to the program
of detoorutizution and reeducation of the Japanese
people.
c. Several of the nember nations of the Far Eastern
Gorission have su estec, with considerable insistence, that
cultur i objects lost as a result of Japunese aggression be
replaced from a general stoek of cultural objeots collected in
Japan pegm dlese of origin o present ownership. The
indiscriminute collection of cultural items, regaraless of
Wherslip, for the purpose of replaoement is not consistent with
Uited States policy. For this reason only two categories of
operty should be made available for replacement of lost
c tural items. They are:

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
CONEIDENTTAL
nethods would be:
(a) restitution or specirio objects if they can
be found;
(5) replacement by cultural objects of roughly
equivalent character and cultural value, if such
equivalents can be found and are appropriately avail-
able.
5. The degree of liability of the Japanese governnent
under these procedures would vary.
(u) Liability of the Japanese government under (a)
is absolute, u cer the procedures of FEC-ol1/12.
(b) Exempted iron. the liability of the Japanese
Governent under (3) are any cultural items:
(1) designited by the Jap.nese Government as
nati nal t asures rior to 1931 or designated as
Jup nese National Treaswes after 193l if they are
of Japanese prigin or were owned by Japanese publio
institutions or private owners prior to l8s4.
(2) Paguired by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to accomplish the objectives of the
occupation, oerticularly with respect to the program
of decoeratization and reeducation of the Japanese
people.
c. Several of the nember nations of the Far Eastern
Ormission have su estec, with considerable insistence, that
cultur objects lost as a result of Japunese aggression be
replaced from a general stoot of cultural objects collected in
Japan regt dless of origin or present ownership. The
ndiscriminute collection of culturul items, regaraless of
Wherslip, for the purpose of replacement is not consistent with
United States policy. For this renson only two categories of
operty should be made available for replacement of lost
c: tural itens. They are:
SALa00 385
-8-
Appendix "B"
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
(1) Cultural itens which are the property of
public institutions with exceptions listed in Paragraph
5.
(2) Cultural ituns among the property of individual
whose property is subject to seizure because of their
wrtime cotivities. Persons convicted or war crimes by
the War Cri es Tribunal may, us a part of their sentence,
lhove their ronerty confiscated. Under the provisions of
prugreph  or the conclusions, such property would be
 vailable to replace lost itens.
7. Collectionr of cultural objects owned by public
Lnstitutions in Japan shoula not be used to satisfy claims of.
Pivate individuals For replacement of lost objects. It would
 inconsistent with the con ervation of cultural property and
)t c).sonant witi public interest if public collections were
"ispersed or pass frem public to private possession. It would
teppive not only vh eople oi cnemy notions but elso the publio
of all nations of uccess to these m teri ls. It is obvious that
coll cti ns of publie instituti ns as the Urfizi Palace Museum
 Florence nd me Maisor Friedrich Kuseum in Berlin are an
international herite e preserved under public trust for all
poopl. This is equtlly true of the Imperiul Household Museums
or Tolyo and Mara, although th se collections may not be as
enerally kmown. Following World War I the only roplacement of
clltural propert tade was that of the collections of the
University or Louvain Library (Article 247 of the Presty of
Versailles).
BANACO 385
-9-
Appendix B

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
34
SANACC 385/1
15 December 1947
Page
10
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE
COCRDINATING COMMITTEE
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
Referonce:
SANACC 385
Nete by the Sccretarics
The enclcsure is circulated to the Committee for information
and nas been referred to the Subcomnittee for the Far East for
considcration in connection with their study of SANACC 385.
W. A. SCHULGEN
4.3
V. L. LOWRANCE
J. P. GARDINER
Sccretariat

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
To:
CSCAD
Nr:
CS 7105
4 December 1947
Reurlet file AGAO-SCC7 (27 October 47) CSCAD, 29 October
1047, subject, "Request fcr comment on SANACC 385," recommend
this matter bc deferred urtil peace treaty is signed and adminis-
tered by ar international cultural cbjects tribunal consisting
of spccialists, establishod for the purpose of adjudicating such
claims.
End.
CM-IN-790 (5 Dec 47)

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SFE 202
2 January 1948
Page 1
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR THE
FAR EAST
REPLACEMENT QF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
References:
2. SANACC 385
b. SANACC 385/1
Note by the Secretary
FW 894 403
The enclosure, a memorandum by the CAD Member, is circulated
for consiieration by the Subcommittee.
J. B. CRESAP
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
MEMCRANLUM BY THE CAD MEMBER
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
1. The CAD Member cannot approve SANACC 385.
2. It is our view that the preference shown to claimant
countries by the presunption established in paragraph 4 d of the
conclusions would serve to alienate Japanese good will from the
United States. This preference is considerably broader than
that established in paragraph 13, SWNcc 227/22.
3. The principle of restitution "in substantial equivalents"
for certain cultural objects serves to weaken the position taken
with respect to "Final Restitution Folicy" in SWNCC 227/22, and
if approved may suggest a precedent for either restitution in
kind or current production reparations in Japan.
4. Action on this matter should be suspended until a
general, revised policy on restitution is forthcoming. The
matter is now pending as FEC O1l/42. The Replacement of Cultural
objects is not a matter of urgeney, is not important to the
economy of Japan or the other countries involved, and would
severely tax the administrative and technical facilities of
SCAP at this time.
5. I propose that SFE recommend to SANACC that SANACC 385
be withdrawn from consideration by the Comnittee.
6. The P&C and AAF members coneur.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
JKP
20
CÔNFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SFE 202/1
9 February 1948
Pages 1 - 3,
incl.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR
THE
FAR
EAST
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
References:
a. SANACC 385
b. SANACC 385/1
C. SFE 202
Note by the Secretary
The enclosure, a memorandun by the State Member, SANAcC,
and a revision of the Conclusions of SANACC 385 representing
the pos tion of the State Department on this policy, is circulase
herew th for consideration by the Subcommittee.
J. B. CRESAP
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
3
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
REPLACEMENT
OF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
Memorandum by the State Member, SANACC
1.
State Department representatives have participated in
further discussion on this subject on an informal basis at the
sub-committee level in the FEC. As a result of these discussions
certain changes in the original draft of SANACC 385 appear
desirable and they are included in the following revised con-
clusion. The most important revision is that which limits the
replacement of cultural objects to those which has previously
served a public cultural purpose. This provision will limit the
claims for replacement which may be presented by the claimant
countries to items of sufficlent importance end value to have
been included in their public libraries, museums and educationai
institutions. Cnly those items which cannct be replaced thre
normal channels of production and commerce would be replaced
under this policy. Additional protection for the cultural
heritage of the Japanese people is provided by broadening the
categories of art objects which will not be used for making
replacements.
2. It is believed that the change in the recommended
pol cy will increase its feasibility from an administrative point
of view.
3. It is recommended that SANACC 385 be amended by the
substitution of the following for paragraph 4:
CO NCLUSIONS
"4. It is concluded that:
"a. This policy is supplementary to and not in derogation
of policy decisions relating to restitution of looted pro-
perty.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
心
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
Memorandum by the State Member, SANACC
1. State Department representatives have participated in
further discussion on this subject on an informal basis at the
sub-committee level in the FEC.
As a result of these discussions
certain changes in the original draft of SANACC 385 appear
desirable and they are included in the following revised con-
clusion. The most important revision is that which limits the
replacement of cultural objects to those which has previously
served a public cultural purpose. This provision will limit thc
claims for replacement which may be presented by the claimant
countries to items of sufficient importance and value to have
been included in their public libraries, museums and educational
institutions.
Only those items which cannct be replaced thre
normal channels of production and commerce would be replaced
under this policy. Additional protection for the cultural
heritage of the Japanese people is provided by broadening the
categories of art objects which will not be used for making
replacements.
2. It is believed that the change in the recommended
pol cy will increase its feasibility from an administrative point
of view.
3. It is recommended that SANACC 385 be amended by the
substitution of the following for paragraph 4:
CONCLUSIONS
"4. It is concluded that:
"a. This policy is supplementary to and not in derogation
of policy decisions relating to restitution of looted pro-
perty.
"b. For the purposes of this policy, cultural objects
are defined to include all movable objects of artistic,
SFE 202/1
- 1 -
Enclosure
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
r
CONFIDENTIAL
historical. religious, or educational character, including
collections of books, which are irreplaceable through
normal channels of production and commerce.
"c. The Japanese Government should be required to
replace cultural objects which had previously served public
cultural purposes; and which have been removed from allied
countries by the Japanese or their agents but have not been
found within a reasonable period, or which have been
destroyed by the Japanese or their agents or as a result
of military action during periods of Japanese military
aggresslon against Allied territories, in accordance with
the following provisions:
"(1) Allied countries attacked or occupied by the
Japanese which claim replacement should show, in
reasonable detail, amounts, kinds and quality of
cultural objects lost.
"(2) In cases of doubt concerning the adequacy of
evidence provided in support of a claim the presumption
should be in favor of the claimant country.
"(3) Claims for replacement of specific cultural
objects, when approved, shculd be satisfied by the
Japanese Goverrment by providing cultural objects of
approximately equivalent character and cultural value
obtainable in Japan.
"(4) Replacement in approximate equivalents as
indicated in para. (3) above should not be made from:
"(a) Cultural items designated by the Japanese
Government as National Treasures (Kokuho) prior to
l93l regardless of origin or ownership, or designated
as Japanese National Treasures (Kokuho) after 1931,
if they are of Japanese origin or were owned by
Japanese public institutions or private individuals
prior to 1894.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
historical, religious, or educational character, including
collections of books, which are irreplaceable through
normal channels of production and commerce.
"c. The Japanese Government should be required to
replace cultural objects which had previously served public
cultural purposes; and which have been removed from allied
countries by the Japanese or their agents but have not been
found within a reasonable period, or which have been
destroyed by the Japanese or their agents or as a result
of military action during periods of Japanese military
aggression against Allied territories, in accordance with
the following provisions:
"(1) Allied countries attacked or occupled by the
Japanese which claim replacement should show, in
reasonable detail, amounts, kinds and quality of
cultural objects lost.
"(2) In cases of doubt concerning the adequacy of
evidence provided in support of a claim the presumption
should be in favor of the claimant country.
"(3) Claims for replacement of specific cultural
objects, when approved, shculd be satisfied by the
Japanese Goverrment by providing cultural objects of
approximately equivalent character and cultural value
obtainable in Japan.
"(4) Replacement in approximate equivalents as
indicated in para. (3) above should not be made from:
"(a) Cultural items designated by the Japanese
Government as National Treasures (Kokuho) prior to
193l regardless of origin or ownership, or designated
as Japanese National Treasures (Kokuho) after 1931,
if they are of Japanese origin or were owned by
Japanese public institutions or private individuals
prior to 1894.
"(b) Early collections significant for their
unity and completeness, such as the Nara Complex of
SFE 202/1
- 2 -
Enclosure
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
the Horiuji, Yakushiji, Toshidaiji, Todaiji,
Kosukuji, Shin-Yakushiji temples and the Shoso-in
and other similar temple complexes, in so far as
replacement can be made from other sources.
"(c) Items required by the Supreme Comnander
for the Allied Powers to accomplish the objectives
of the occupation particularly with respect to the
program of democratization and education of the
Japanese people."

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: March 10, 1948
FROM :
FE - Mr. Hamilton
SUBJECT:
Replacement of Cultural Objects (Japan) (SANACC 385 and
SFE 202 Series)
Mr. Barnett told me this morning that he felt the
Chinese would come to you directly to express their
interest in this subject.
The precedents for action along the lines proposed
in the attached paper are Article 247 of the Treaty of
Versailles (which provides for replacement of cultural
property to the University of Louvain Library) and
Article 12 of the Italian Peace Treaty (which provides
75()
for replacement to Yugoslavia) and Article of the
Italian Peace Treaty (which provides for replacement to
DC/R 894.403/3-1048
This Document Must Be Returned to
any Un.tid Nation
than would be the case in the proposal under considerati&ng
for Japan. I suggest that you raise with the Chinese the
question whether they could be precise in what they have
in mind: Do they have in mind the libraries of certain
specific Chinese universities, etc.? How extensive is
the replacement program for each of these libraries?
Obviously, when a problem is stated precisely the dif- 
ficulties of administration are less than when the prob-
lem is stated in very general language. We so./d ILelieve,
indicstea sy-puthetc tt. tude in princible.
Please return these papers to me for further con-
sideration after the Chinese have called on you.
3.3.1.
JUL141952
0
FILED
CS/
f
(42)
工
(ω
0
FE:MMHamilton:fhh

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
Mr. J. Allison/A NA
DATE: 31 March 1948
DCIR.
FROM :
rile
SUBJECT:
Replacement ofyLost Cultural Objects
1. You are aware that the Reparations Committee has suspended discussion
of C1-272/1 pending diplomgtic talks between the Chinese Embassy and the State
Depertment on the subject cf Peplecement from Japen of Lost Culturel Objects.
2. On Wednesdey, March 31, inister Yang and Mr. Anthony Koo called by
my office to inforn me thet the Embassy intends in the near future to make an
approach to the Department.
3. 1t is probable that vhen the meeting takes place, a Chinese represen-
tative vill make the following points:
a. The reylacement of lost cultural objects proposel now being
negotiated in the Far Eastern Conmission would benefit China in a very
Files
Central
DC/R 894.403/3-3148
This Document Must Be Returneu 
substantil vay; other countries occupied by the Jepanese would be un-
likely to obtain more than incicental benefits;
b. China's interest in the proposal lies in its desire to accomplish
relabilitetion of the cultural institutions and resources which were
dareged or destroyed by the Japenese;
c. There exists in China both within the Government and amongst the
intelligentia generally a strong and well-articulated interest in obtein-
ing fron Japan replacements for lost cultural cbjects or collections,
particularly libraries for the principal government and private educational
institutions;
d. The cultural relationship of China to Japan is a unique one,
sinilar in many ways to the reletionship of the U.K. to the U.S., making
ε program of replecement in equivalents administratively feesible;
e. The failure of the U.s. to cooperate in putting in motion the
prcjected rogram would be misunderstood and profoundly resented by Chinese
public orinion.
3. The Chinese representative ray desire to discuss with the Department
several details wlich appear in Inclosure A and Inclosure E of 61-272/1.
Inclosure A is & proposed policy approved by the me jority of the Far Eastern
894.403
Conmission countries. Inclosure P is & propostl approved by the U.K. and
supported on a tentative and informel basis by the U.s. delegution (the U.S
delegation has been authorized to make Inclosure B a basis for discussion.
CS H
r.Salizman's office).
4
The Chinese representative will refer to paragraph 3 of Inclostre A
ω
3
十
8

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
introduces a restriction upon claims which may be subnitted in conmection with
the replacement program, which in effect will do a serious injustice to China
where many of the most precious libreries and art collections were privately
owned and served the purposes of private Chinese scholars end connoisseurs.
The Chinese representative will then refer to paragraph 6 of Inclosure A
and paragraph 6 of Inclosure B. He will point out that the former version of
paragreph 6 wi.ich is acceptable to the Chinese Government establishes a
restriction upon the cultural property in Japan available for disposition under
the terms of & replacement prcgrem. He will assert that this restriction is
adequate counter belence for the widening of recognized claims which the Chinese
esked for in paregraph 3 of Inclosure A.
4. There is at present no SANaCC pelicy regarding Replacement of Lost
Culture1 Objects. The problem is under consideration in SANACC. The Department
of the Ar y objects to the policy proposal which has been submitted by the
State Departnent and believes that the problem of replacement of lost cultural
objects should be dealt with at the peece conference. If the Chinese Embassy
is able to persuade the Deprt ent that the Far Eastern Commission should take
action on this matter, steps should be taken to cbtain et an early time SANACC
aprroval of ε Iolicy which can be made the besis for responsible discussion of
the matier in the Fer Testern Cor ission or, if preferable, further diplomatic
talks vith the Chirese. It is my unoerstanding that OE has communicated with
NA with the view of siifting to it responsibility for hondling this matter. The
economic implications of the progrem are, of course, negligible.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
FBIS
Far Eastern Section
Chine--Central Government
Excerpt
Mar. 18, 1948
CHINESE A TIcUITIES - - The Chinese Mission in Jepen has submitted to
SCAP and to the Allied Far Eastein Conmission a request that the Japanese
Government return ε1l culturt1 objects taken fron China since 1895.
SCAF has ignored this request and issued an crder to the Jepanese Govern-
Lent to repcrt only bouks end cultural cbjects removed from China in
the last wer. The Chinese Government nas compiled & list of 15,225
items taken from Chine between 1895 and 1937, and 3,607,074 items and
1,&70 cases of rare books taken in the last & year:. Exclusive of the
Peking Man, these objects are estimated at U.S. 3,300,000. Thus far
only 71,000 bcoks have been returned to Central and "anking Universities
and the Institute of  si tic Studies. The Foreign Office is negotiating
with Itelian and German authorities for return of objects taken by
their resjective : tiona!s.
(1anking in English, 1er. 16, 1948--h)

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.85)
Poking Man, these objectare estimat.?,c. Thu 
their respective netionals L(Na ing in En lish, er. 16, 104(-8)

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
NA - Mr. Allison
March 8, 1948.
NA - R Fearey
State Department losition on SFE 202/2, "Replacement of
of Cultural Objects".
This problem has rather long, parallel histories in
FEC and 1n SANACC.
f . ledan's ofree,
.11
Taking up the FEC situation first, the US introduoed a
paper on this subject in Committee No. 1 a good many months
ago on an informal basis, no agreement having yet been
achieved on the matter within the US Government. The paper
provided for a fairly liberal replacement of lost cultural
objects by Japan, but with safeguards to ensure that Japan
was not deprived of too large a proportion of her cultural
possessions through a prograw amounting to "reverse looting".
Although the paper wus, therefore, fairly generous, China and
some of the other countries which had suffered extensive
looting by the Japanese took the position that it was not
generous enough ind sought to broaden its scope. The result
was the preparation by the Committae of majority and minority
reports (C1-272/1, 13 January 1948, attached), the majority
report being supported by China, the Netherlands and the
Philippines, and the minority report, offering a more restrict-
ed program, being supported by the Us and the Uk. The essential
difference between the two was that the minority report held
that objects on which claims for replacement might be made
must have served "public cultural purposes", while the majority
report contended that privately-owned cultural objects should
be subject to replacement as well as publicly-owned objects,
out that publicly-owned objects in Japan should not be used
to replace privately-owned objects looted from the devastated
countries ana subsequently lost or destroyed. Tha. matter is
now pretty well stalemated in the FEC with neither side show-
ing any sins of iving in.
On the SANacC front the first step in the history of the
problem was the submission by the state Department of
SAllacC 385 (attached) in October of 1947, providing substan-
tially the s ime program as the one whicn the Us delegation
had been advocating in the FEC. This paper was referred to
SFE for a report ind after a month's interval SFE 202
(attached) was submitted contahing the CAD position on the
paper. This position wis that the roposed replacement pro-
gram would allenate Japanese goodwill toward the Us and would
impose

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
impose a heavy administrative burden on SCaP, and that the
entire subject should therefore be postponed until the peace
conference. SCaP took substantially the same position in a
telegram received about the same time. The State Member
replied about a month later (sFE 2O2/1, attached), that
State could not agree that the matter should be postponed
but that it would agree to restrict the scope of the program
even further so that 1t would be less onerous for Japan and
would afford more protection for the cultural heritage of
1he Japanese people. The State Member accordingly presented
a modified rogran which broadened the categories of Japanese
art otjects which could not be taken for replacement purposes.
Some two weeks later the CAD Member submitted SFE 202/2
(atiached) in which he staled that he could not accept either
the original or the moaified version of the replacement pro-
gram, ror five staled reasons.
The most 1mportant of these and the one which CAD (and
P&o) emphasizes most, 1s that the Us would lose more goodwill
in Japan by a cultural replacement program than it would
gain goodwill or other practical advantage as a result of
such a program from the countries which would benefit from
it. ky own view 1s that this argument, besides being en-
iirely cynical, is unsound, and that it is more important
that we keep the goodwill of China and our other Ailies
than that we should lean over backwards at their expense to
favor the Japanese. It is to be remembered that the Italian
and other satellite treaties contain cultural objects replace-
ment provisions, and I believe it would be an exaggeration
to assume that we would incur serious illwill in Japan as a
result of our support of a moderate and reasonable cultural
objects repl icement program there. On the other hand we would
unquestionably incur the strong enmity of several of our
Allies if we refused to permit such a program.
The second CAD argument is that a replacement of cul-
tural objects program would set an undesirable precedent for
similar programs for the replacement of many other goods and
commoaitles taken from Allied countries by the Japanese and
subseguently lost or destroyed. This argument has more
validity to my mind than the first but still is not very con-
vincing. The cultural objects replacement provision in the
satellite treaties is only one of several indications that
cultural objects const itute a unique category of goods by
general recognition, and that specific provision for their
re lacement could not well be, and is not likely to be, cited
as an argument for replacement of other categories of goods
such as industrial raw materials or the like.
The third

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
一 3 -
The third CAD argument, that the program would be diffi-
cult to administer, undoubtedly has a certain amount of
truth in it. A relatively large amount of administrative
labor would be required for the results achieved. All that
1s really necessary, however, 1s that the prineiple should
be established and the work begun, and the amount of labor
this would require would not seem so great as to necessitate
postponing the matter.
CAD's fourth argument 1s that the provisions in the
State draft tht "in cases of doubt concerning the adequaoy
of evidence proviued in support of a claim, the presumption
should be in favor or the clalmant country" gives undue
favor to the clalmant. since we have agreed at Mr. Draper's
insi tence on the deletion of a similar rovision from the
restitution paper, I should think we might agree to deloto
it from this aper also.
Re arding CAD's fifth argument, that compensation by
the Japanese Government for private Japanese required to
turn over art objects for replacement purposes would aggra-
vate the Japanese currency inflation, seems to be based on
an exaggerated conception of the scope of this program as it
would actually work out. Due to incomplete records, and the
loss of a large proportion of the records which did exist.
the claimant countries are going to have a very difricult
time presenting documentary proof of loss of more than a
relatively small portion of their total losses. There is
now in Tokyo an entire warehouse full of art objects known
by everyone concerned to have been looted by the Japanese
from China but the Chinese are unable to present evidence
that the roperty is actually theirs, with the result that
it has been impossible to restore it. Even if a large
amount of Japanese property is eventually provided in re-
placement for lost or destroyed looted objects, which is
not to be expected, it is unlikely that the amount of com-
pensation provided for the portion of the property obtained
from private sources would be large enough to have any appre-
ciatle effect on the Japanese currency situation.
On the basis of the above five objections, and the fact
thit the State Department sticks by its view that the paper
should not be withdrawn, the CAD Member proposes that a
split report be forwarded by SFE to SANACc. I see no alter-
native but for the state Department to approve this proce-
dure if the problem is to be decided one way or the other.
The only reason for not approving it would be to hold the
paper in SFE until Mr. Kennan returns and his recommendations
have been

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
have been acted on. The machinery is likely to move so
slowly in any event, however, that I personally do not see
any reason why the split reports should not go to SaNAcc or
why we should not continue our efforts within the U.S.
Government to reach an agreed position. We should take no
further steps in the FEC, of course, until a US position
has been arrived at.
NA:RAF/hhc

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Glearing Offiees
0
May 13, 1948
MA - Mr. Allisen
Dispatoh of Attached Messages.
Although the attached messages to Tokyo and Manking are
largely self-explanatory, the following additional baskground
material may be helpful.
The United States and the United Kingdom, on the one hand,
and China, the Netherlands and the Philippines, on the other,
have for some time been stalemated in Committee No. 1 of the FEO
on alternative approaohes to the problem of a program of replace-
ment of oultural objeots lost or destroyed as a result of Japanese
action. The United States position has been maintained informally
since the Sakac0 paper on the subjeet has not yet been appreved.
On Nay 4 the Chinese Ambassador called on Mr. Saltsman te empha-
sise the importance in which China held this subjeot and to enlist
our sympathy and support for a comprehensive replacement program.
He was assured by Mr. Saltsman that the United States Government
would give the matter its careful and immediate considerasion.
Or April 23 an officer of A, in an effort to obtain add1-
tional information on the underlying issues, disoussed the matter
with Mr. Verner Clapp, Chief Assistant Librarian of the Library
of Congress, who had just returned from a trip to Japan and China.
Mr. Clapp's views, based, he emphasized, on his 1mpressions during
a rather brief trip, were that the Chinese had not suffered such
extensive cultural losses as has been commonly assumed, and that
they were not greatly interested in a replacement program. A
memorandum or the conversation with Mr. Clapp is attaohed.
It has appeared, particularly following the conversation
with Mr. Clapp, that there are still two important unknowns re-
garding this problem on whioh the United States Government should
seek more light before arriving at a final position. The first
is the actual extent of looting and destruotion of cultural ob-
Jects in China and of the interest of the Ohinese eduoated classes
and general public in a Japanose replacement program, and the
second is the aotual volume of Japanese art objeots which would
be eligible for removal under the draft polioy paper informally
supported by the United States in Committee No. 1. Without this
information it would seem that we would run the risk, on the one
hand, of unnecessarily alarming and antagonizing the Japanese by
supporting a more extensive replacement program than the Chinese
and other olaimants would later wish or be able to present aotion-
able olaims, or, on the other hand, of sanotioning the removal of
large quantities of Japenese art treasures to the lasting
detriment

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
detriment of Sino-Japanese and Japanese-American relations.
The purpose of the attached messages is to obtain this
information.
It 1s not anticipated that the Army will objeot to trans-
mitting the message to Soap, notwithstanding the fact that
they have previously opposed the institution of a replacement
program until after Japanese peace settlement, but if they do
it is believed that the Department should insist that it go
forward. The essential reasonableness of the Chinese' and
other devastated countries' desire that a replacement program
be agreed to and instituted as soon as possible, the stale-
mate in the FE0, the assuranoes given Ambassador Koo, and the
indefinite postponement of the Japanese peace settlement would
seem to require that the United States arrive at a firm posi-
tion on this proilem, in the light of the best information
available both in Washington and in the field, in the shortest
possible time.
It is requested if any of the olearing offioers or O
have questions regarding the proposed messages that they get
in touoh at once with NA so as to reduce the possibilities
of delay to a minimum.
NA:RAFearey:lt

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
DRAFT TELEGRAM (or Airma1l Letter)
TO SOAP
(through Army)
State advises that s1noe reoeipt urad 0s 7103, 7 Deo 1947,
commenting on SANACC 385 "Replacement of Oultural Objecta" and
recommending that matter be deferred until after peace settle-
ment, pre sure for cultural replacement program has mounted in
FEC. Chinese Ambassador recently made formal representations
to State sontending that Ohinese educated olasses greatly oon-
oerned over matter and failure to inetitute comprehensive
cultural replacement program would oocasion serious disillusion-
ment and resentment in China. State considere it eesential
from politioal point of view, in light above factore and in-
definite postponement peace treaty, that replacement program
be decided upon at this time and ite implementation begun at
maximum administratively feasible rate.
Disouselons in ad hoo subcommittee of Reparations Committee
of FEC has resulted in preparation of majority and minority
draft polioy statementa. Latter, supported informally by Us
representatives and formally by Uk, and identical with an
amended version of SAna30 335 now before SANAC0 Subcomm1ttee
for Far East (amended to limit cultural objeots for whioh re-
placement may be claimed to those which have previously served
a publio oultural purpose and to extend the categories of
Japanese art objects which may not be used to provide replaoe-
ments), reads as follows:
“
This
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2ー
"a. This polioy le supplementary to and not in
derogation of polioy decisions relating to restitution
of lootod property.
"p. For the purposes of thie policy, oultural
objects are defined to inolude all movable objects of
artistic, historical, religious, or educational char-
acter, inoluding collections of books, whioh are irre-
plaocable through normal channels of produotion and
commeroe.
"9. The Japanese Government should be required
to replace cultural objeots whioh had prevlously served
public cultural purposee; and whioh have been removed
from allled countries by the Japanese or their agente
but have not been found within a reasonable yeriod,
or whioh have been deetroyed by the Japaneve or their
agents or as a result of military action during eriods
of Japoneee military aggression againat Allied terri-
tories, in accordance with the following provielone:
"(1) Allied countries attaohed or ocoupled
by the Jananese whion claim replacement should
show, in reasonable detail, amounts, kinds and
quality of cultural objeots lost.
"(2) In oases of doubt conoerning the ade-
quacy of evidence in support of a olaim, the
presumption should be in favor of the claimant
country.
"(3) Claims for replacement of specifie
cultural objects, when aporoved, should be satis-
fied by the Japanese Government by providing
cultursl objeots of ap roximately equivalent
character and oultural value obtainable in Japan.
"(4) Replacement in aporoximate equivalente
as indioated in para. (3) above should not be
made from:
"(a) Cultural iteme deeignated by the
Japanese Government as National Treaeures
(Kokuho) prior to l93l regardless of origin
or ownership, or designated ae Japanese
National Treaeures (Kokuho) after 193l, 1f
they are of Japanese origin or were owned
by Japanese
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
by Japanese publio institutions or private
individuals prior to 1894.
"(b) Early colleotions signifieant
for their unity and completeness, suoh as
the Nare Complex of the Horiuji, Yakushiji,
Toshodaiji, Todaiji, Kojukuji, Shin-
Yakushiji temples and the Shoso-in and
other similar temple complexes, in so far
as replacement can be made from other
souroes.
"(o) Items required by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers to acoom-
plish the objectives of the occupation par-
tioularly with respeot to the program of
democratization and education or the Japanese
people."
Majority draft supported by China, Netherlands and
=(3),
C
Phillppines differs in paragraphs & and , which read as
follows:
"z. The Japanese Government should be required
to replace oultural objeots which have been removed
from Allied countries by the Japanese or their agents
but have not been found within a reasonable period,
or whioh have been destroyed by the Japanese or their
agents or as a result of military aotion during per-
1ods of Japenese military aggresslon againet Allied
territories in accordence with the following provi-
sions.
((3)
". Claims for replacement of specific cultural
objects when approved, should be satisfied by the
Japanese Government by providing oultural objecte of
approximate equivalent oharaoter and cultural value
obtainable in Japan. Property belonging to Japanese
1nstitutioms, exoent for duplicates, should not be
used to fulfill claime for replacement of oultural
objeots whioh were privately owned and whioh have
not served any public cultural purposes."
In his
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4
In his recent formal approach to State, Chinese
Ambassador said his Govt prepared accept US position if
止
first part para  revised to read: "The Japanese Govt
A
should be required to replace oultural objeots whioh ()
were publioly owned or, if privately owned, had been
accessible to the publio or had served to demonstrate the
evolution of the national oulture and art of the olaimant
countries or had been used for other publio oultural pur-
posos, and..."
State 1s requesting Nanking Embassy's estimates of
relative quantities of objeots which would be subject to
replaooment under three proposals quoted above. Also
querying Embassy on general acceptability in China of
recent informal propoeal by Dr. Hu Shih that Japanese be
required furnish microfilms of J panese colleotions
Chinese books in Japan to Chine, in preference transferring
books themselves. To further assist in determination prao-
tical, internationally supportable US position this issue.
whioh will eatisfy replaoement claime to maximum extent
feasible but not open Japan up to "reverse looting" or
involve euoh extensive removals as would conetitute future
source of ill will, State desires your best estimate total
quantity and value Japanese art objeots whioh would be
≤ (4)
eligible for removal under para A of minority and majority
proposals
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
proposals above and the proportion of Japan's total cul-
tural store which the eligible objeots would compromise.
Your comments on any other aspeot this problem in light
developmente noted above would be appreoiated.
CONFIDENTIAL
NA:RAFearey:lt
FE
OE
5-13-48

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
DRAFT TELEGRAM TO SCAP
(through Army)
State advises that since receipt urad CS 7103, 7 Deo 1947,
comenting on SANACC 385 "Replucement of Culturel Objocts" and
recommending that matter be deferred until after peace settle-
ment, pressure for cultural replacement progrem has mounted in
FFC. Chinese Ambassador recently made formal representations
to State contending that Chinese educated classes greatly con-
cerned over matter ani failure to institute comprehensive
cultural replacement program ould occasion serious disillusion-
ment and resentment in China. State considers it essential
from political point of view, in light above factors and in-
definite poatponement peace treaty, that replacement program
be decided upon anj its implementation begun at maximum ad-
ministratively feasible rate as soon as possible.
Discussl ns in ad : oc : committee of Reparations Committee
of F C has resulted in preparation of majority and minority
draft policy statements. Latter, supported informally by Us
representatives and formally by UK, and identical with an
mended verslon of SANACC 385 now before SANACC Subcomm1tte
for Far rast (amended to limit cultural objects for wl ich re-
ph cement may be claimed to those w! ich have previously served a
public cultural purpose and to extend the categories of Japanese
ar objects which may not be used to provide replacements).
reads as follows:

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Majority draft supported by China, Netherlands and Philip-
pines differs in paragraphs 3 and 6, which read as follows:
"3.
”6.
In his recent formal approsch to State, Ci Inese Ambassador
said his Govt prepared sccept US position if first part of
para 3 revised to read: "The Japanese Govt should be required
to replace cultural objects which (a) were publicly owned
or, if privately owned, had been accessible to the public or
had served to demonstrate the evolution of the natlonal cul-
ture and art of the claim nt countries or ha been used for
other public cultural urposes, and..."
State not convinced loss and destruction Chinese cultural
possessions, and interest of Ch nese educated circles in
Japanese replucement program, are as grest as Chinese repre-
sentatives here maintain, nd is making inquiries in tl is re-
gard of Embassy at Nanking. Embassy is also being queried on
relative quantities of objects which would be subject to re-
placement under three proposals oted bove, end on general
acceptability in China of Dr. Hu Shih's proposal Jap anese be
required furnish microfilms of Jepanese collections Ch'nese
books in Japun to Cl ina, in preference transferring books them-
selves. To further assist in determination practical, inter-
nationally supportable position on cultural replacement issue
w lch will satisfy replacement claims to maximum extent feasibb
but not open Japan up to "r y rse looting" or involve such
extensive removals as would constitute future source of ill
will, State desires your best estimate total quantity and
value Japanese art objects wh ch would be eligible for removal
under

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
under para 7 of minority end majority proposals above and
the proportion of Japan's total cultural store which the
eligible objects would comprise. Your comments on any other
aspect this problem in light developments noted above would
be appreciated.
NA:RAFearey:mp
5-7-48

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.94)
Confidential
DRAFT TELORAM TO NANKING
11.
+1.
DEPT desires EMB's assistance and advice in formulation
US policy  replacement with comparable Japanese objects of
Chinese and other cultural objects (books, paintings, porcelains,
etc.) lost or destroyed as result Japanese action.
11.
1.t2
Chinese representatives PEC have led Netherlands and
Philippines in efforts secure brocd replacement pro gram, and
20.
Chinese Amb:sssdor recently made formal approach to DiPT to
e:
request our sympethy and support for such a program." Ambassador
stated that Chinese educated classes greatly concerned over
this matter an: that failure to institute comprehensive re-
olacement program w uld occasion serious disillusionment and
resentment in China. An tmerftoan official recently returned
1i1
from,trip to Chins, however, has state: it wes his impression
that Chinese have lost reletively little of t! eir store of
.1...1.i
cultural possessions end that educated circles were not greatly
interested in a replacement program. This re ort conflicts
with general assumotion here that China suffered extensive
11..
2
losses. US representatives FrC have advocated more restrictive
program then Chinese desire, desi med to satisfy legitimate
cleims for replacement to maximum feasible eytent wit! out
opening Jopan up to "reverse looting" or sanctioning such ex-
tensive removuis as would constitute future source of ill will.
i.
Specifically Chinese, Netrerlands and Philippines position
71. FEC is that
"The Japanese Government should be required to replace
cultural objects which have been removed fro m Allied coun-
tries by the Japanese or their agents but have not been
found within a reasonuble period, or which have been
destroyed by the Ja anese or their agents or as a result
of military action during periods of Japanese military
aggression against Allied territories. . . .Property
belonging to Japanese public institutions, except for
duplicates, should not be used to fulfill claims for
replacement of cultural objects which were privately owned
and which have not served any public cultural purposes."
US

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2 -
22.
US position, supported by UK, has been that
"The Japanese Government should be required to replace
cultural dojects (A) which have previously served public
cultural purposes. and (B) which have been removed from
Allied countries by the Japanese or their agents but have
not been found within a reasonable per od or which have
been destroyed by the Japanese or their agents or as a
result of military action during periods of Japanese
military aggression agalnst Allied territories."
1h.1
u 2 the
In is recent formal approach torB, Chinese Ambassador
said his Govt prepered accept US position if (A) revised to
read "w.ich were publicly owned or, if privatel: owned, had
been accessible to the publis or had served to demonstrate
the evolution of the national culture and art of the claimant
countries or had been used for other ublic cultural purposes."
Both sides agree replacement should not be made from
"a. Cultural items designated by the Japanese Government
as National Treasures (kokuho) prior to 1931 regardless
of origin or owners! ip, or designated as Japanese National
Treasures (kokuho) efter 193l, if they are of Japanese
origin or were owned by Ja enese ublic institutions or
private individuals prior to 1894.
"b. Larl: collections significant for their unity and
completeness, such as the Nara Complex of the Horiuji,
Yakushiji, Toshidaiji, Todaiji, Kosukuji, Shin-Yakushiji
temples nd the Shoso-in and other similar temple complexes,
in so far as replacement can be made from cther sources.
"c. Items required by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Poers to accomplish the objectives of the occum tion par-
ticularly with respect to the pregram of democratization
and education of the Japanese people."
2.1
Desire your best estimates on
?
11.
Jaoanese in Chins.
2. Interest of, inese educated clesses and general
public in a Japanese reolacement program.
3. Relative quantities of oojects which would be subject
 replacement if program limited to objects which had served
ca.
chi
public cultural purposes, as proposed by US and Uk, if program
ii.
not so limited, as proposed by China, Netherlands and Philippines
it.
in FEc, or if limited as more recentl: proposed by Ambassador Koo.
4. Proportion of instances in w ich Chinese would be able
11.
to present specific, detailed, actionable claims for replacement
of items held to have been lost or destroyed by Japanese.
5. Probable

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.83)
- 3 -
The
5.  Probable reaction of Chinese educated circles as whole
et.
An.
. .t. t  Cr
to plan advanced by Hu Shih to require Japanese to furnish
microfilms of valuable Chinese and other books in Japan to
 to th
China and other claimants rather than tranfor books themselves.
T2：
the
6. General desirability ani practicability of replacement
21.
prograins presently supported by China and US, rospootivoly. 
E
NA:RAFearey:mp
5-7-48

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIALof
TO
FE - Mr. Penfield
APR- 6 1948
7.i
FE - Mr. Hamilton ..
FROM
IRFCTOR
(4
SUBJECT:
Replacement of Cultural Objects (Japan) (SANACC 385
and SFE 202 Series)
I have held this paper pending the return of
Mr. Kennan.
In the light of his report, any action on this subject,
if it is to be taken, should preferably be taken before
the peace treaty. This runs counter to SCAP's view that
this matter should be left for handling in the peace
Biles
Central
DC/R
treaty.
This is one of those unfortunate cases where US
members of FEC committees have taken action before the
894.403/4-648
US Government has authorized action or adopted a position.
While in principle something along the proposed line
seems all right, I think we should know more about what
is actually involved before we reach any agreement. I
understand that the paper is designed principally to
enable Chinese libraries, destroyed by the Japanese, to
obtain from Japan as replacements similar library material.
Just what is involved?What particular libraries? How
many books and what type of books? Some one told me that
Hu Shih and some other Chinese scholars did not want to
obtain as replacements in Chinese libraries the actual
books in Japanese libraries -- they wanted microfilms
of the books in Japanese libraries.
On March 10 Mr. Barnett told me that he felt that
the Chinese would come to Mr. Butterworth on this subject.
So far as I know the Chinese have not taken the matter
up with FE. When the Chinese next raise the question, I
suggest that an effort be made to get precise information.
C
S/H
HW
JUL 15 1952
FILED
FE:MMHamilton:fhh
CONFIDENTIAL
X 100172

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.93)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
NA - Mr. Allison
DATE: Apr1l 9, 1948
FROM :
CA - Mr. Ringwalt
File
SUBJECT:
Replacement of Lost Cultural Objects
120
In the opinion of CA Mr. Fearey has analyzed the
situation well in his memorandum to you of March 8, 1948.
CA concurs in Mr. Fearey's conclusions which are set
forth therein.
Files
Central
DC/R
Ihis Document Must Be Returueu o
It is apparent that a compromise will have to be
reached between the Chinese position that the Japanese
Government should return all cultural objects taken
from China since 1895, which would appear to be unreason-
able, and the position of SCAP, which would appear to
Exa
reflect undue concern over the possible alienation of
Japanese goodwill toward the United States.
ATP
S
8
f
JUL 141952
AW
3
kes
CA:kCDougall:la
8

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
. Hehso
COHEIDENTIAL
13 February 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR General McCoy
From:
R. W. Barnett
Subject:
Roparations Committes Mecting of 11 February 1948
1. The Reperations Cormittee disctssa! et saus length its two most
troublesome Curient problems, JAPAN 3E TECHNICAL IFCATION (C1-28O/1,
C1-280) and REPLACEMENT CF LOST C L 0RAL DJ2CTS (C1--272,1, C1-272). It did
not discuss the U. S. proposal dealing With the DE LTIGN F JAPANESE CCU-
PATION COSTS (FEC-288).
2. The State Depurtment, as you know, has taken steps to put before
SaNacc a proposal dealing with the problem of Jappeee scientific and tech-
Fω
nical processes to which FEC countries desire to gein sccess in Japan. The
Sanacc machinery has not yst started to move. It is hoped that when it does,
representatives of the JCs can participate in diucussion of the problem of
what administrative or military complications might ariss from giving to Allied
personnel, as has been proposed in JAPANESE TECHIICAL, INFORMATION, the right to
make drawings and take datails on Japanese technical processes. Although it
is well known, both in the Reyeraticns Committee and throughout the U. S.
Government, that an exacutiva order of the President's has made it American
policy that enemy infomaation on technicel and scientific processes should be
made freely available to all the Allies, members of the Reparations Committee
are unamare of steps which the State Depsrtmart hw found it necessary to take
in establishing a U. S. Goverument position on this metter. They know only
5
that at the present time the U. S. member has no position on the simple, but
concrete proposels which bave been wade by the Australian, Philippine and New
Zealand members and which have been agreed to in principle by all the other
members of the Reparations Comaittee. In reply to repeated requests for an
indication of I. s. views, the U. S. meuber has stated that while he could say
nothing at present, he hoped he would have & position by the next meeting of
the Reparations Committee on Pebruary 18. The Committee was divided in its
opinion as to whether its policy proposal should be held ovar to amait the
U. S. views, or whether it should be sent forward to the Steering Committee
at once. After tedicus discussion cf this procedural question, I vote as
taken, with six countrles favoring the fcrwariing of the policy proposal and
five countries abstaining. This ptopossl will, therefors, now appear on the
agenda of the Stoering Committee.
3. The Comnittee discussed the majority and mimority reports on & polloyt
dealing with replncement of loet cultural objeots. At the last meeting of
the Reparations Committee the Italian Treaty was o'ted es a justification for
the broadest kind of construction of hou a program of replacement of cultural
objects should operate. The J. S. member at this mesting challenged any such
CONEIRENTIAL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
CONEIDENTIAL
●2-
interpretation of the intent of the Italian Treaty. He felt that some explamtfe
should be given regarding the real difference betwoen the Italian Treaty and
the two alternative pending FEC policy proposals. He pointed cut that the
Italian Treaty provided that only cultural" objects aot:ally "removed" from am
ocoupied country to Italy should be replaced in equivelents out of sush art
objects in Italy which might belong to the culturul heritage of the cooupied
country. Proof of removal mas required. The policies under consideration by
the Reparations Committee would allow claim for lost cultural objects remored
or destroved. It was, therefore, a much more sweeping polioy. To restrist It
in such a way as to make its implementation administretivoly practical, the
U. S. and the U. K. had felt that claims should be recognized only for such
lost culturs! objects as had served "public purposes" in the occupied country.
It was to this restrictive provision in the U. K.-D. &. draft that the mjority
of the Reparations Committee bad taken exception. The remarks of the U. S.
member came as a surprise to Committeo members who had been believing that the
Italian Treaty was broader and not, as is the case, far more narrow in its
terme. Seemingly out of pique, the Netherlands menter expressed the opinion
that in disoussions of this problem the U. S. and the U. k. had shown a par-
ticular interest in protecting Japan, whersas otter countries were interested
in recognizing the proper rights of the countries which had been occupied and
devastated by Japan. Both thu U. K. and the U. S. members protested this
interpretation of their position. The U. S. member, in fact, pointed out that
no other member of the Committee had taken a greater interest over a longer
period of time in study of the feasibility of a program of replacement of lost
cultural objects. He noted that the FEC had at present a policy of restitu-
tion which required the ret rn cf identified looted cultural objecta; the FEC
was working on a reparations policy the purpose of which was to compensate
claimant countries for all typss of Losses und darage. That & separate program
of roplacement of lost cultural objects was under consideration at all indi-
cated a recognition of the special interests of occupiod countries in the re-
habilitation ani restoration of their respective cultural heritages.
The State Departmont has approved of the minority report on replace-
ment of lost cultural objects. That positicn, however, has not yet received
SaNACC sanotion.
4. No other business mas disoussed.
CONEIDENTIAL

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
18
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SFE 202
2 January 1948
Page 1
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR
THE
FAR EAST
REPLACEMENT
TOF
CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
References:
a. SANACC 385
b. SANACC 385/1
Note by the Secretary
The enclosure, a memorandum by the CAD Member, is circulated
for consideration by the Subcommittee.
J. B. CRESAF
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
E N C L OS U RE
MEMORANDUM BY THE CAD MEMBER
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
1. The CAD Member cannot approve SANACC 385.
2. It is our view that the preference shown to claimant
countries by the presumption established in paragraph 4 d of the
conclusions would serve to alienate Japanese good will from the
United States. This preference is considerably broader than
that established in paragraph 13, SWncc 227/22.
3. The principle of restitution "in substantial equivalents"
for certain cultural objects serves to weaken the position taken
With respect to "Final Restitution Policy" in SWNCc 227/22, and
if approved may suggest a precedent for either restitution in
kind or current production reparations in Japan.
4. Action on this matter should be suspended until a
general, revised policy on restitution is forthcoming. The
matter is now pending as FEC Oll/42. The Replacement of Cultural
Objects is not a matter of urgency, is not important to the
economy of Japan or the other countries involved, and would
severely tax the administrative and technical facilities of
SCAP at this time.
5. I propose that SFE recommend to SANACC that SANACC 385
be withdrawn from consideration by the Committee.
6. The P&C and AAF members concur.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
56
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
mb
SANACC 385/1
15 December
1947
Page 10
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COCRDINATING COMMITTEE
REPLACEMENT CF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
Reference:
SANACC 385
Notc by the Socretarics
Tne enclosure is circulated to the Committee for information
and nas been referred to the Subcommittee for the Far East for
consideration in connection with their study of SANACC 385.
W. A. SCHULGFN
V. L. LOWRANCE
J. P. GARDINER
Sccretariat

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
CCNFIDENTIAL
EN C L O S U R E
From: SCAP Tokyo Japan
To:
CSCAD
Nr:
CS 7105
4 December 1947
Reurlet file AGAo-SCC7 (27 October 47) CSCAD, 29 October
1947, subject, "Request for comment on SANACC 385," recommend
this matter bc deferred urtil peace treaty is signed and adminis-
tered by ar international cultural objects tribunal consisting
of cpecialists, established for the purpose of adjudicating such
claims.
End.
CM-IN-790 (5 Dcc 47)

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
22
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SFE 202/2
19 February 1948
Pages 1 and 2.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR
THE FAR
EAST
REPLACEMENT CF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
References:
a. SANACC 385
D. SANACC 385/1
C. SFE 202
ā. SFE 202/1
Note by the Secretary
The enclosure, a memorandum by the CAD Member, is circulated
for consideration by the Subcommittee.
X
J. B. CRESAP
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
MEMORANDUM BY THE CAD MEMBER
REPLACEMENT
CF
CULTURAL UBJECTS (JAPAN)
1. The CAD member neither favors the original propcsal con-
tained in SANACC 385 nor the modified version contained in SFE
202/1 for the following reasons:
a. The U. S. has agreed that the Japanese will make
reparations in kind and thct the Japanese will restore iden-
tifiable looted property.
Going beyond these twc agreements
and making restitution in ind of cultural objects cculd
serve to alienate Japanese good will from the U. S. and set
a precedent for restitution in kind of all types cf material
and commodities.
b. The limited quid pro quo accruing to the U. S. from
the FEC nations concerned would appear to be more than off-
set by the alienation of Japanese good will towards the U.S.
c. The carrying cut of restituticn in kind would be
difficult tc administer fairly, and SCAP has already in-
dicated that he would recommend the resoluticn f such
matters in the Japanese peace settlement by a cultural ob-
jects tribunal of specialists.
d. Paras. 4. c.(1) and (2) of SFE 202/1, in the light of
reparations and restitution of identifiable prcperty, give
undue favor to the claimant.
e. The Army has no information as to the number ur value
of clains that might be forthcoming if such a pclicy were
approved.
If such claims were extensive, presumably, the
Jepanese government would have to provide some yen payment
or credit to Japanese owners of cultural cbjects whcse pro-
perty was to be used for restituticn in kind -- thus lessen-
ing the already deflated value of the yen.
The CAD member has been dvised by Mr. Burr Smith

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
(speaking for the Department of State) that his department cannot
concur in the proposal to withdraw SANACC 385 as modified by SFE
202/1, which recommendation was contained in SFE 202. Therefore
it is recommended that divergent views of the two departments
be promptly presented to SANACC for resolution.
3. The P&o member concurs in the recommendation contained
in para. 2. above.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.80)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: 4/>8/48
t0 : MMH
SUBOT: FEC Pei: t. al 21, 1.
Beferene stat ment in iten
#1,  Batr ie he has 
wmittn a meno t the offor
5
Do you want me
alour t.
to get mon ingomation init
2

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.89)
STANDARD FORM NO. 
Jril 29
DATE:
t0 : Mr. Allisom
SUBJECT :
wit about it #1?
7
X

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
General I cCoy
CONFIDENTIAL
26 Apr1 FARBEASTERN AFFAIRS
R.".Barnett
APR 2 7 1948
Reparations Committee Meeting of Aril 21
DIRECTOR
1. REPLACEMENT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS, C1-272 series
DEPARTMENT OF
member was requested to report on the results of diplomatic conversations
between the Chinese and U.S. Governments on this subject. The U.S. member
stated that the Chinese Ambassador had mede an approach to the Depertment
4101
of Stete and presented certain vievis which were now under consideration by
the U.S. Government. The Reparations Committee decided that no action
should be taken on this paper until a report could be made on the final
outcome of the talks.
2. REMOVALS OF ACCESSORY PLANTS, C1-299/3. The Chairman polled the
Committee to determine how many members had received instructions on the
revised policy proposals worked out by a subcommittee on the basis of
certein Chinese and French suggestions. Only the Chinese and Philirpine
merbers had received instructions to vote for the proposals as a whole.
The U.K. member could not approve the whole paper but could vote for pera-
greph 3 in it, which is not more then a reiteration of a provision
contained in FEC 084/22.
3. POLICY TO"ARDS PATENTS AND UTILITY MODELS IN JAPAN, FEC 284 Series.
This statement represents the work of a subcommittee chaired by Mr. Powles,
the New Zealand member. Its contents ere consistent with the terms of a
SANACC policy proposal upon which final action has not yet been taken. The
pper remeins upon the agende of the Reparations Committee.
4. REPARATIONS CLAINS AGAINST JAPAN, Cl-2E3/1. This is a report from
a subcommittee which defines the nature of reparations claims and the
manner in which they should be satisfied. The U.S. member of this sub-
committee was General Snow. The only substantive comment made upon the
report was broug ht up by the U.K. member, who believed thet industrial
reparetions should be distributed to member countries of the FEC only,
and that non-member countries which were at war with Japan should obtain
satisfaction for their reparations claims from cther sources.
The Committee seemed to agree that it was not at all urgent to
make any public announcement regarding the procedure for non-FEC countries
to lodge reparations claims. They did not study a proposed announcement
which had been drafted.
5. DEFINITION OF JAPANESE OCC UPATION COSTS, FEC 2E8 SerieS. The New
Zealand member stated thst his government had instructed him to say that
this problem should be studied within the FrC but thet the New Zealand
Government was not at present prepered to state thet it could agrce in
the U.S. proposals.
The Chinese member stated that paragraph 2(c) of the U.S. proposal
(dealing with application of the priority charge against Japanese-owned
gold, silver and precious metals) conflicted with the terms of an existing
FEC policy, peragraph 16(c) of FEC O32/26. He then requested the U.S.
member to supply as full data as possible on whet occupation costs actually
had bcen to date.
The Soviet member who had indicated heretofore that he opposed FEC
consideration of this proposal at this time moved that the U.S. proposal
be dropred from the agenda. A vote was taken on this rotion. Ten
countries opposed it.
At the suggestion of the U.S. member, a subcommittee was formed to
make a careful analysis of the intent and effects of policy proposals put
forward by the U.S. Government.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2
6. TREATMENT OF JAPANESE ASSETS IN NEUTRAL COUNTRIES, FEC 295. The
New Zealand member stated that his government took the stand that the U.S.
proposal lay within the jurisdictioh of the FEC. If the jurisdictional
question was raised, it should be raised either at the Commission or
Steering Committee level.
The Soviet member desired the U.S. proposal to be removed from
the agenda of the Reparetions Committee, saying that if it were not done
it should be sent to the Far Eestern Commission for a jurisdiction ruling.
This action would put the Soviets on the right side of the veto in the
FEC. The Canadian member opposed the Sovict suggestion and proposed
instead that the U.S. proposal be referred to the subcommittee which had
been formed to study the details of' occupation costs.
7. SETTLEMENTS OF AMOUNTS DUE REPATRIATED JAPANESE, FEC 294, FEC O90.
The Canadian member inquired whether the U.S. member could &ccept his two
amendments to that policy proposel. The U.S. member steted that since the
Canadian amendments were in accord with cxisting policy they were not
objectionable.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Tile
April 13, 1948
O - Mr. Ray:
Filas
R
Document Must Be Returneu 
8
noon and brought up the matter of restoratid
6
of cultural objects to China. This, as you
4
know, has been the subject of discussion in
the FEC and of a SANACC paper which has been
apparently kicked around in the sub-committee
since last October.
Dr. Koo left with me the attached
suggestion of an amendment to the anpropriate
language in the papers presently before the
FEC on this subject.
N
4
It appears to me that we should take
8
steps immediately to get something done about
this in SANACC. If, as I understand, the Army
and we are in disagreement in the sub-committee,
perhaps it would be well to have a split report
submitted to the full SANACC Committee at its
next meeting on Anril 22nd so that we could have
some discussion there of the two viewpoints and
provide a means of finding some solution.
C. E. Saltzman
UW
C
ACw
C
CN
91
52

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
3.
The Japanese Government should be required to replace cultural
objocts:
a. which were publically owned;
b. which, if privately owned, had been accessible to the public
or had served to demonstrate the evolution of the national
culture and art of the claimant countries or had been used for
other public cultural purposes;

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
Pleace keturn
to 0-Records Bor
4202 275.
FEC-RESTRICTED
91-272
C1-272
30 September 1947
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
COMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPAIATIONS
REPLACEMENT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS:
TENTATIVE
UNITED STATES PROPOSAL
(References:
01-002/17, /18, /25)
Note by the Secretary General
1. The enclosure, a tentative policy proposal of the
United States Department of State concerning replacement of
lost cultural objects, submitted by the United States Member
at the one hundred and twenty-sixth meeting of Committee No. 1
on 24 Scrtember 1947, is circulated herewith for the technical
stuGy of COMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPARATIONS.
2. it its one hundred and twenty-sixth meeting on 24
Sertember 1947, Committee No. 1 agreed to refer the United
States policy proposal referred to in paragraph 1 above to
the original Subeommittee on lost cultural objects comprising
the Chinese, Franch, Nethorlands, Philippines, United Kingdom
and United States Membors.
NELSCN T. JOHNSCN
Socretary General
C1-272

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
FEC-RESTRICTED
E N C LO SU RE
REPLACEMENT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS:
TENTATIVE
UNITED STATES PROPOSAL
1. This policy is surplomentary to and not in derogation
o aecopted policy decisions relating to restitution of idon-
tiriablo looted proporty.
2. The Japanose Government should be required to replace
cultural objects wantonly destroyed or removed from Allied
countries during periods of Japanese military aggression against
their terrimories as required below.
3. Cultural objects are defined to inelude all mevablo
objects of ertistic, historical, religious, or educational
charac:er, including collucticns of books, which are irreplace-
able through normal chennels of production and commerce.
4. Allicd countries ati cked or occupied by tho Jepanese
which claim replacement should provide reasonable evidence
that cultural objeets were removed or wantonly dostroyed as e
dircet or indirect result of Japan se operations or occupation
and h ve not been found. Such uvilenee should show, in reason-
able dotail, emounts, kinds, end quality of cultural objocts
less. In cases of doubt concernine the adegusey of evidonce
provided in support of e cleim, ths prosumption should be in
P vor of che claimant country.
5. Cleims for roplacement of specifie cultural objeets,
when approved, should be sasisfied by the Jepanese Government
by providine culturel objects of cubstantiolly cquivalent charac-
tur and culturel value hold cit or by Japanose publie institu-
tions or Jei nese inaividuals whose property is subjoet to
suizupe beeause or their wertime cetivitius. Property belonging
to Japenuse public institutions will not be used to fulfill
elaams for replacoment of privatoly owned cultural objects.
6. Roplecoment in substenticl cquivelonts as indicated
in Parograph  ebove should not inelude:
a. Cultural items designated by the Jepanoso Govern-
mont as National Truasures prior to 1931 regardless
of origin or ownership, or designated as Jopanese
Nei lenel Treasures after 1931, if they are of Japanese
origin or w ro owned by J panose public institutions
or 1rivete individuels prior to 1894.
b. Items required by the Supreme Commander for the
Allicd Powers to cccomplish the objectives of the
occupation, particulerly wich respect to the progrem
of demoeratization and recducation of the Japanese
peorle.
7. The SCAP should be nuthorized, at his discretion, to
sccure the advice and essistence of authorized restitution
represuntatives of claimant countries to assure ccuitable
implementation, in the light of ustablished precodents, of the
foregoing policy, particularly as it relates to approval of
claims and determination of standards for the substantial oquiva-
lonts mentioned in Paragraph 5 above.
-1-

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
Please keturn ts
O Recido, Boom
ASSISTANT
A-S
4202,ns.
JAN 15 1948
FEC-RESTRICTED
MR. SALTZMAN
C1-212/1
C1-272/1
13 January 1948
FAR FASTERN COMMISSION
COMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPARATIONS
REPL CEIUNT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS:
:REPORT OF SUBCOMMITTEE
(References:
C1-272; C1-002/17, /18, /25)
Note by the Secretary General
1. Tnclosure "A" and "B" have been prepared by the Subcom-
mittee on Rerlacement of Lost Cultural objects and are submitted
herewith or the consideration of COMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPARATIONS.
一
2. Inclosure "A" is the majority draft of a proposed policy
on repl cement of lost cultural objects supported by the Chinese,
Netherlonce and Philippine delegations.
3. Enclosure "B" is a minority draft of a proposed policy
on replocenent of lost cultural objects supported by the United
Kingdom and United States delegations.
4. nclosure "C" is an explanatory statement by the United
States lection regarding its position on the subject of re-
placement of lost cultural objects.
5. The  sterisks before paragraphs 3 and 6 in Enclosure "A"
and 'E" incicate the paragraphs in which the differences of opinion
exist.
6. he Chinese, Netherlands and Philippine Members emphasized
in the 3 committec that their delegations' acceptance of para-
graphs
 nc 7 of Enclosure "A" was contingent upon the acceptance
of pararh 3 of that Enclosure. Similarly, the United Kingdom
and Uniteu Statcs Members emphasized that failure to include para-
graph 3 s it stood in Enclosure "B" would probably require further
modifications by their delegations' of paregraphs 6

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
A-S
4202,ns.
JAN 15 1948
FEC-RESTRICTED
MR. SALTZMAN
C1-272/1
C1-272/1
13 January 1948
FAR FASTERN COMMISSION
COMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPARATIONS
REPL CEIUNT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS:
REPORT OF SUBCOMMITTEE
(References:
C1-272; C1-002/17, /18, /25)
Note by the Secretary General
1. Inclosure "A" and "B" have been prepared by the Subcom-
mittee on Rerlacement of Lost Cultural objects and are submitted
herewith or the consideration of COMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPARATIONS.
2. Inclosure "A" is the majority draft of a proposed policy
on repl cement of lost cultural objects supported by the Chinese,
Netherlon: and Philippine delegations.
3. nclosure "B" is a minority draft of a proposed policy
on repl cement of lost cultural cbjects supported by the United
Kingdom inc United States delegations.
4. Inclosure "C" is an explanatory statement by the United
States leetion regarding its position on the subject of re-
placement of lost cultural objects.
5.
The  sterisks before paragraphs 3 and 6 in Enclosure "A"
and 'E" incicate the paragraphs in which the differences of opinion
exist.
6. he Chinese, Netherlands and Philippine Members emphasized
in the  committec that their delegations' acccptance of para-
graphs  nt 7 of Enclosure "A" was contingent upon the acceptance
of paramk 3 of that Enclosure.
Similarly, the United Kingdom
and Unitoc Statcs Members emphasized that failure to include para-
graph 3 3 it stood in Enclosure "B" would probably require further
modifications by their delegations' of paregraphs 6 and 7.
7. The subcommittee comprised of the United States (Chairman),
Chinese, Netherlands, Philippine and United Kingdom Members.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretary General
C1-272/1

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
FEC-RESTRICTED
ENCLOSURE "A"
REPLACEMENT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS: MAJORITY DRAFT
SUPPORTED BY CHINA, NETHERLANDS, PHILIPPINES
1. This policy is supplementary to and not in derogation
of policy cecisions relating to restitution of looted property.
2. For the purposes of this policy, cultural objects are
defined to include all movable objects of artistic, historical,
religicus, or educational character, including collections of
books, which are 1rreplaceable through normal channels of pro-
duction anc commerce.
*3. The Japanese Government should be required to replace
cultural cbjects
which have been removed from Allied countries by the
Japancse or their agents but have not been found within
a ro sonable period, or which have been destroyed by the
Japancse or their agents or as a result of military action
Curing periods of Japanese military aggression against
Allica territories
in accor ncc with the following provisions.
4. Allicd countries attacked or occupied by the Japanese
which claim rcplecement should show, in reasonable detail,
amounts, kinds and quality of cultural objects lost.
5.
In cascs of doubt concerning thc adequacy of evidence
providod in supnort of a claim, the presumption should be in
favor of the clcimant country.
*6. Clrims for rcplaccment of specific cultural objects
when apprevcd, should be satisfied by the Japanese Government
by providing cultural objects of approximately cquivalent
character cnd cultural value obtainable in Japan. Property
belonging to Japanesc public institutions, except for duplicates,
should not bc used to fulfill claims for replacement of cultural
objects which were privately owned and which have not served any
public culturel purposes.
7. Rcpl-ccment in approximate equivalents as indicated in
parn. 6 above should not be made from:
2. Cultural itoms designated by the Japanese Government
2s National Treasures (Kokuho) prior to 193l regardless of
origin or ownership, or designated as Japanese National
Tre surcs (Kokuho) after 1931, 1f they are of Japanese ori-
gin or wcre owned by Japanese public institutions or private
individurls prior to 1894.
b. E rly collections significant for their unity and com-
plotonoss, such as the Nora Complex of the Horiuji, Yakushiji,
Toshicriji, Todaiji, Kosukuji, Shin-Yakushiji temples and
the Shoso-in and other similar temple complexes, in so far as
replaccment can be mnde from other sources.
C. Itcms required by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powcrs to accomplish the objectives of the occupation
prticularly with respect to the program of democratization
and cducrtion of the Japanese people.
Enclosurc "A"
- 1 -
C1-272/1

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
FEC-RESTRICTED
ENCLOSURE "B"
REPL CEMENT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS: MINORITY DRAFT BY
UNITED KINGDOM AND UNITED STATES DELEGATIONS
1. This policy is supplementary to and not in derogation
of policy cccisions relating to restitution of looted property.
2. For the purposes of this policy, cultural objects are
defined to include ail movable objects of artistic, historical,
religicus, or cducntionnl character, including collections of
books, which re irreplaceable through normal channels of pro-
duction nd commerce.
*3. Thc J panese Government should be required to replace
cultural oojccts
2. hich had previously scrved public cultural purposes,
nd
b. vhich have been removed from Allicd countries by the
Ja nosc or their agents but have not been found within
 rc sonablc period, or which have been destroyed by the
Jp ncsc or thoir gonts or as a result of military action
curing pcriods of Jpanese military aggression egainst
Allica territorics
in nccordencc with the following provisions.
4. Allicd countries attacked or occupied by the Japanese
which claim rcplrcement should show, in rensonable detail,
amounts, kinds nd quality of cultural objects lost.
In cascs of doubt concerning the adequacy of evidence
provided in support of n cl im, the prcsumption should be in
favor of thc clnimant country.
*6. Clcims for replacement of spccific culturel objects,
when pprcved, should be sntisfied by the Japanese Government
by providing culturel objects of approximately equivelent charac-
ter and cultural valuc obtainable in J~pan.
7. Roplacement in approximate equivalents ns indicated in
para. 6 bove should not be made from:
2. Cultural itcms designatcd by the Jpanese Government as
Ntion 1 Trensures (kokuho) prior to 1931 regardless of
origin or ownership, or designated as Jopenese Nrtional
Trengurcs (Kokuho) after 1931, if they are of Jopanese
origin or were owncd by Japanesc public institutions or
priv to individuals prior to 1894.
2. Early collections significant for their unity and com-
plctcness, such as the Nora Complex of the Horiuji, Yakushiji,
Toshidciji, Todaiji, Kosukuji, Shin-Yakushiji temples and the
Shoso-in and other similar temple complexes, in so far as
repl ccment can be made from other sources.
C. Itcms required by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powors to accomplish the objectives of the occupation par-
ticulcrly with respect to the program of democratization
and ccucrtion of the Japanese people.
Enclosure "B'
- 2
-
C1-272/1

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
FEC-RESTRICTED
ENCLOSURE "C"
STATEMENT BY THE UNITED STATES MEMBER ON CULTURAL
OBJECTS REPLACEMENT POLICY
Thc Fr Eastcrn Commission has established policies covering
the rostitution of identificd property found in J-pan which was
looted by thc Japaneso in countries invaded and occupied by the
Jopanosc. Undcr thosc policies cultural property looted by the
Jopanosc nd found in Japan will be returned to the country from
which it v's teken.
The Unitcd States has for some time been aware of the. prob-
lems risinf from the loss and destruction of valuable and irre-
placen lc works of art and historic monuments of great signifi-
cancc. In 1943 the American Commission for the Protection end
Salvigc of Irtistic and Historical Monuments in Europe was formed
for the purpose of formulating plans for the protection and
presorv-tion of cultural propcrty during the war period nnd for
the rostituion of such property at the close of hostilities.
In April lo44 thc activitics of the Commission were extended to
cover the wer roas of the Far East.
Consistent with the policics adopted by tho Commission the
Department of Statc has presented for the consideration of the
Far Eastorn Commission a tentative proposnl which would require
Japan tc rerlace public cultural property which has been lost or
destroycd cs rcsult of military action and occupation. Follow-
ing Worlc r I the only replaccmont of cultural property made
was that of the collections of the University of Louvnin Library
(Articlo ? of the Treaty of Versailles). The policy proposed
herein thus reprosents on intornational preccdent placing a new
obligation on dcfeatcd countries. In the view of the Department
of Statc, thc importancc of significant cultural objects to the
public cducation and devclopment of nntions justifics the adoption
by the For Eastern Commission of such a policy.
Thc mcndments to the original proposal of the Department
of Statc rccommendcd by the subcommittce, however, would extend
the pplic tion of this policy to private property which has not
served on/ public purpose. In the view of the Department of State
such n ctcnsion, in view of the prccedent it would establish,
should no ic acted on by the For Eastern Commission except after
the fullcst and most cnreful consideration of its implications.
It shoul lso be noted, that by providing for replacement in
full of culturel losses of private owners, the proposed policy
would ccod ownors of such property more complete and direct
compens tien than providcd for private owners of other types of
property.
Enclosure C"

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
Pleave return
to O-Kecorde, Boon
4202, 275.
FEC-RESTRICTED
C1-272/2
01-272/2
2 February 1948
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
CHINESE STATEMENT CN
REPLACEMENT OF
LOST
CULTURAL
OBJECTS
ote by the Secretary General
Thc enclosure, a statement on replacement of lost cultural
object: presented by the Chinese Member at the one hundred forty-
si tth meeting of Committee No. 1 on 4 February 1948, is cir-
culated herewith for the further consideration of CoMMITTEE NO. 1:
REPAR1(NS in connection with its consideration of C1-272/1,
Replacement of Lost cultrel objeets.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretary General

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
FEC-RESTRICTED
ENCLOSURE
CHINESE STATEMENT ON REPLACEMENT OF
LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS
The Chinese Delegation to the Far Eastern Commission has
given u1l consideration to an explanatory statement by the U.S.
Member on the subject of replacement of lost cultural objects as
embodied in enclosure C of this document C1-272/1, and wishes to
make the following observations:
Durine periods of Japanose military aggression against China,
the extent of losses and destruction of cultural items in China
as a result of such actions have found no parallel in the history
of any country. I do not intend to indulge in describing in
detail such losses, but it is sufficient to point out that they
have been a staggering tlow to the cultural heritage of China.
Consequently, even an extension of the application of this policy
to cover privately owned cultural objects, which have not pre-
viously served public culture purposes, would be far from adequate
to redress the damage that has been wrought.
The meaning of the clause "which had previously served public.
culturel purposes" is elusive, Essentially, it is difficult to
draw  cleer-cut distinetion between those cultural objects which
have served public cultural purposes and those which have not.
The amoiguity, if not clarified, would unavoidably cause grave
administrative difficulty and consequent delay of implementation,
which. should te avoided. as much as possible.
In the course of discussion in. the Sub-Committee, it was
pointed out that the amendments to the original U.S. proposal
recommenced by the ma jority of, the. Sub-Committee might be held
as a ch rge against Allies for looting Japanese cultural objects.
If this hes been the concern or the apprehonsion of some members,
we wish to draw the attention of the members to the fact that in
the Peace Treaty with Italy, there is no such qualifying clause
as the one proposed by the U.S.. Member. Tnstead, the phrase
'objects belonging to the cultural heritage of the United Nations"
was used. .It may be argued that the provisien concerned in the
Italian Teace Treaty does not obligate Italy to replace cultural
objects ccstroyed during the period of hostilities. But it should
be pointec cut that neither does it exempt cultural objects in
the foll wing three categories from being used to fulfill re-
placement claims: (a) Almost all cultural items designated as
National Treasures. (b) Early collections significant for their
unity .n completeness. (c) Items required to accomplish the
objectives of the occupation, particularly with respect to the
program of democratization and education.
In view of the three exceptions under the proposed policy,
cultural cbjects significant to Japanese public education and
develoment of the nation could be fully protected and preserved
in Japen. Further, according to the recommendation of the
majority of the Sub-Committee, the property belonging to Japanese
public institutions, except duplicates, will not be used to ful-
fill claims for replacement of cultural objects, which have not
served cny public cultural purposes. The latter claims could
only be setisfied from the rather limited sources of privately
owned objects.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
FEC-RESTRICTED
The proposed policy before us is a matter of urgency. To
the pec les of all looted countries, it is important to have a
policy on the subject as early as possible, but it may be equally,
if not more, important to them to have a paper with equitable
terms neer which replacement would be made. For they see in it
an indic tion of cur raith in the essential value of the cultural
object to the civilisation which we share together, an expression
of our ponmen tonds and beliefs and an affirmation of the
prirci: le of justiee.
T um up our position, we find the clause which had pre-
viousl, served publie cultural purposes unsound in principle
and unvorkeble in practice, and it should not, therefore, be
adopte by the Commission.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
2
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SFE
202/2
19
February 1948
Pages 1 and 2.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR
THE
FAR
EAST
REPLACEHENT CF CULTURAL OBJECTS (JAPAN)
References:
a. SANACC 385
D. SANACC 385/1
C. SFE 202
ā. SFE 202/1
Note by
the Secretary
The enclosure, a memorandum by the CAD Member, is circulated
for consideration by the Subcommittee.
J. B. CRESAP
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
MEMORANDUM BY THE CAD MEMBER
REPLACEMENT
(F
CULTURAL UBJECTS (JAPAN)
1. The CAD member neither favors the original propcsal con-
tained in SANACC 385 nor the modified version contained in SFE
202/1 for the following reasons:
a. The U. S. has agreed thet the Japanese will make
reparations in kind and thct the Japanese will restcre iden-
tifiable looted property. Going beyond these twc agreements
and making restitution in kind of cultural objects cculd
serve to alienate Japanese good will from the U. S. and set
a precedent for restitution in kind of all types cf material
and commodities.
b. The limited quid pro quo accruing to the U. S. from
the FEc nations concerned would appear to be mere than off-
set by the alienation of Japanese good will towards the U.S.
c. The carrying cut of restitution in kind wculd be
difficult to administer fairly, and SCAP has already in-
dicated that he would recommend the resoluticn f such
matters in the Japanese peace settlenent by a cultural ob-
jects tribunal of specialists.
d. Paras. 4. c.(1) and (2) of SFE 202/1, in the light of
reparations and restitution of identifiable property, give
undue favor to the claimant.
e. The Army has no informntion es to the nunber ur value
of clains that might be forthcoming if such a pclicy were
approved.
If such claims were extensive, presumably, the
Jopenese government wruld have to prrvide some yen payment
or credit to Japanese owners of cultural objects whcse pro-
perty was to be used for restituticn in kind -- thus lessen-
ing the already deflated value of the yen.
The CAD member has been dvised by Mr Burr Smith

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
(speaking for the Department of State) that his department cannot
concur in the proposal to withdraw SANACC 385 as modified by SFE
202/1, which recommendation was contained in SFE 202. Therefore
it is recommended that divergent views of the two departments
be promptly presented to SANACC for resolution.
3. The P&o member concurs in the recomnendation ocntained
in para. 2. above.
Enclosure

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.85)
FORM DS-516
5-13-41
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
Lerter frmm hr
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
①
后
11-2248
894.403/6848
Wimmendniga
menrt. * Wund See
6-8-48
. Mc Sllai
flettu t See
4f
6-8-48
Jarmy.
ofy gllithn 
6-8-48
11
7-9-48
, "0-". Nummndie
apy of leter x Sel hn
6-848
II
11
6-24-48
n.0" n. Hemmendhinger
6-8-48
ahes menrs. " " daton
Thenr. fr. DB. Barnet
11
Samacc-380
fu. "na" allim

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.93)
SEP 18 1948
SECBET
Dear Royall:
894.403/7-2848
I am writing in reply to your letter of July 28
in whish you request that I reconsider the questiem of
replacement of sultural objeets lost or destreyed as a
resalt of Japanese aggression in the light of the views
of the Department of the Army, General NacArthur and
General Clay, to the end that a workable solution of
this problem may be achieved.
The Department of State has now sompleted a review
of its policy in the field of oultural replasement, mnd
has arrived at & solutien which I believe meets the essen-
tial objeetions of the Department of the Army and the
two Theater Commanders to the sarlier proposal. The
propesal is so very mueh more restrieted than thess
whieh the Far Eastern Gemmission has been coasidering
that it will undoubtedly sccasion keen disappointment
and resentment on the part of China, the Philippines
and other nations whish suffered severe depredation of
their eultural heritage at the hands of the Japanese.
Nevertheless it appears to me the best possible selution
of a diffieult problem, and I am prepared to instruct
General MoCoy to present it to the Far Eastern Commission
as the polisy of the United States.
CS/A
Sinee the proposal and the reasoning supporting it
are somewhat deteiled I am asking Mr. Saltzman to take
it up initially with General Eberle. If their consider-
ation of the matter suggests the need for further son-
sideration between ourselves, I shall be glad to under-
take it.
À true cspy of
the zigued rig
Faithfully yours,
22
S/S
8
G. C. MARSHATA
The Honorable
SEP 20 1948
403
Kenneth C. Royall,
Seeretary of the Army.
Jma
utadaR
FE:NA:RAFearey:lt
RAT
is
[LI
9/13/48
L
EP
NCE
ADO
SECRET
CtA.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.93)
SefR
SEP 18 1948
In roply refer to
Dear General Eberle:
I an writing to you pursuant to Seorstary Marahell's
letter of oven date to Seeretary Royall en the pa
of replacement of cultural objests lost or destreyed ms
a result of Japanese aggression.
As stated in Searetary Harshall's lester, the emsire
problem of the replacement of cultural objests lest er
8
destroyed as a result of eneny action during the lass
war has been earefully reviewed by this Department im
Macårthur's and General Clay's objectioms to the earlier
draft proposal. As a result of this restudy, the
attaohed proposed new poliey statement fer submission
that which the Department has previously supported.
tions raised against the old. Altheugh it wall unds
part of China, the Philippines and ether devastated
Eastern countries, it will at Least ascerd sekem
nition of these nations' just claim to campemmatie
the largest practieal extent for the wantom destrm
of their cultural heritage perpetrated by the Japamame.
It is the unaltered view of the Department of State
that a carefully limited cultural replmesment presram
should be instituted in the Far East. Whereas it has
been possible in Europe to restore large quantities of
cultural materials looted by the Germans, this has mes
been ths eass in the Far East, where much the greater
part of the affeeted materiale, mumbering hundrede of
894.403/9-28
thousande
mg
General G. L. Eberle
Acting Chief, Givil Affairs Division,
Speeial stafr
United states Army.
4132
SEORET
2252

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
must in eemmen justise be made te the natiens whiek suf-
fered sush destruetien of their eultural heritage at
Japan's hands.
As already stated, however, it is esential thas the
and so as not to constitute a future souree of bisterneßs
ascerdingly, should be narrowly limited te xemaes
tical, or, if that is mot pessible, of elesely similar
charaster, and of appreximately equal value to the
should not be allowed to broaden into gemeral subssitu-
tion of roughly somparable items. Acseptanse ef this
consept will require abandemment by Ghina and the ether
prineipal elaimants of their claim to substitutiom in
bulk for the vast quantities of sultural materials lest
as a result of Japansse aetion.
The attached draft poliey statement has been pre-
pared to mscerd with the above consepts. It is believed
that a replasement program based on this peliey would
afford at least some redress for the great injury dome
China's and other elaimants' oultural heritage by Japan,
and at the same time would be se restrieted in the mumber
of items aetually transferred that it would met signifi-
cantly deplete Japan's stere of eultural objests. There
is reasen to expeet that the essential reasonableness
and justiee of a replacement program on so limited a
seale would be recegmised by mest thinking Japanese.
There would seem te be listle basis fer belief that such
a program would have unfortunate political consequenses
in Japan either now or in future.
As to the administrative problems created, the extens
of the program will be limited at the outeet by the
requirement
SECRET
4132
225

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.95)
quirement that the items fer which replas
present teo great difficulties.
mal reading ef this phrase would exelude requests fé
assume such propertions as to make its adsinistratien a
problem.
The Department of State has donsidered its prepesed
poliey statement in the Light of Artiele LVI of the Ammem
letter, and finds nothing in the statement whish could he
the sesond paragraph of the Artiele, which is the only
paragraph in the Artiele bearing on the subjeet at hand,
is to outlaw ssizure or destruction of or wilful damage
to objests of cultural cignificance by an cecupying power,
and to render that power liable to legal preseedings if
it does commit such acts. Although the roquiroment that
the olaim be satisfied through legal prosesdings eensti-
tutes a protection for the occupying power if, as Im
the present instanee, the fortunes of war should turn,
the burden and purpose of the provision is to render the
oceupying power subjeet to elaims for redress of the dam-
age done. Since ths Artiele is not elear as to what type
of legal proceedings are called for, and, indeed, could
not have been olear, conaidering that the proceedings
would be between States, it may be assumed that judgment
by any qualified neutral, international body metivated
by prineiples of justice and equity would suffice. The
beard
41.32
2250

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
countries not ameng those whieh sufferod at Japan's ha
weuld be seareely comparable to the arbitrary leeting ef
German eultural objeets from their sene by the umilateral
asts of the Soviets. The objeets transferred under the
prepesed pregram would be taken in asserdanse with eare-
one whieh any civalised natien weuld meed se foar.
As regards General Clay's ether peint, that U.S.
inmediately prempt Franee to claim replacements fer a grent
many objeets frem Germany, it is our understanding, ms
stated abeve, shat a very substantial ameunt ef restera-
tien of Western Europe's store of sultural ebjeets has
is no desire te reepen a question which has been as lemss
temperarily laid to rest in General Clay's theater of eam-
mand, it is diffieult to see how the example of the replase-
ment program proposed herein ceuld open the deor to an
exeeseive number of Freneh claims on Germany.
I refer you to the enelesed draft telegram to
General MaeArthur for the State Department's views on
the additional points raised by General MacArthur in his
telegram C-6l096 of May 31. It is my sineere hope hat
after eareful study of the considerations advanced in this
Letter and drart telegram to General MasArthur that you
will find is pessible to transmis the telegram to General
MaeArthur for his comments with an expression of Army
Department suppert for the proposed peliey statement.
Sinee it is desirable that this Government reach an agreed
posision
SECRET
4132
250

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.86)
Simeersly yours,
Charles E. Sal
Assistant Sea
for Ccsupied 
Enclesures:
A
1. Proposed new peliey
statement.
the steroed orie-
2.
Proposed telegram to
inal. 7mn
SCAP.
uotedazit
RAY
Notidik
ILI
FE: NA: RAFearey: 1t
FE
0
EP
9/13/48
Dい
MEORET
4132
2252

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
SEORET
Pronosed Polioy Statement on Replacement of Qultural
Obleets Lost or Destroyed as a Resuls of Jspanese
Aggression During the Perlod 193l-1946.
1. This policy is supplementary to and not in dero-
gation of FEC Oll/5l relating to Restitution of Looted
Property.
2. For purposes of this polioy, cultural objeets
are defined to include movable objects of artistie,
historical, religious, or educational charaeter, inelud-
ing colleetions of books, which are irreplaseable through
normal chennels of production and commerce.
3. The  apanese Government should be required to
replaee cultural objects which were removed from Allied
countries by the Japanese or their agents during the
period 193l-1945 which are not found within a reasonable
time or which were destroyed by the Japanese or their
agents as a result of military action during that per-
iod, in accordanee with the following provisions:
(a) Eaoh item for which replacement is
claimed muat be precisely identified and deseribed;
(b) Reasonable evidence must be presented
that the item was in fact removed or destroyed
by the Japanese or their agents during the peried
1931-1945;
(o) The item must be shown to have been an
object of rarity end high value possessing
important cultural significance in the country
or region of loss or destruction;
(d) The item provided by the Japanese Govern-
ment in replacement must be of the same period as,
of identioal or closely similar character with,
and of approximately equal value to the item lost
or destroyed. If no such item is obtainable in
Japan, the claim for replacement must be denied;
(e) Replacement should not be mede from:
. Cultural items designated by the
Japanese Government es National Treasures
(kokuho)
SEORET

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
SORET
-2
(kokube) prier to 1931 regardless ef
origin or ownership, or designated as
Japanese National Treasures (kekuhe)
after 1951, if they are of Japanese
origin or were owned by Japanese publie
institutions or private individuals prier
to 1894, or
b. Early collections signifieant for their
unity and completeness, such as the Mara
Complex of the Koriuji, Yakushiji,
Toshidaiji, Todaiji, Kosukuji, Shin-
Yakushiji temples and the Sheso-in and
other similar temple complexes.
4. Replasement in accordance with the above provisions
should be under the direetion of a board or spesialists
on Far Eastern sultural matters. The beard should be
composed of three persons, not nationals of countries
which suffered cultural losses at Japan's hands, seleeted
for their competenee by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers in Japan frem a list of persens momimated
by the natiens suffering such oultural lesses. The board
should be established in Tokyo under the mutherity of the
Supreme Commander as soen as a suffieient number ef veri-
fied replacement claims have been reseived to warrant its
ontering on its duties. The foreign curreney expemses
of the board, which should be afforded all praetieal teeh-
nieal assistanee by the Supreme Commander's Headquarters
in the performanee of its duties, should be allocated in
an equitable manner, as determined by the Supreme Gem-
mander, among the nations submitting olaims to it, and
all other expenses should be borne by the Japanese Govern-
ment. The Buprene Commander should take no part in formu-
lating the deeislons of the board, but should be empewered
to review its deeisions before transmitting them to the
Japanese Government for execution.
SEOREX

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
SSORET
Propemed Telemrem to SCAP
REURAD C-61096 31 May.
Following from State:
DEPT of state has completed review entire problem
replasement of eultural objeets lost or destroyed as
result enemy action during last war in light yeur ees-
ments and considerations advaneed by DgpT or Army and
General Clay during latter's resent stay in Washingten.
Review has not altered Dspts convietion that earefully
limited cultural replacement program should be institu-
ted in Par East. Whereas it has been possible im Europe
to restore large quantities cultural materials leoted by
Germans, this has not been eass in Far East, where much
the greater part of the affeeted materials, numbering
hundreds of thousands of items, were lost or destreyed.
Although loss and destruction in Far East must for mest
part be written off as Far East's irreparable misfortune,
it is believed maximum feasible redress must in commen
justice be made to nations which suffered such destruetion
of their oultural heritage at Japan's hands.
It is essential, however, that replacement program
be carefully limited so as not to impair Japan's oultural
heritage in effort alleviate depredatiens to elaimants'
cultural treasure, and so as not to constitute future
source of bitterness in Japan against claimant eountries.
Following proposed new poliey statement for submiesien to
FEC, accordingly, is much narrower and more restrictive
than that whish bEpt has previously supported. It is
believed proposed policy meets all essential objeotions
raised against the old, and that although it will undoubt-
edly occasion keen disappointment and resentment on part
of China, Philippines and other devastated Far Eastern
countries, it will at least accord token recognition
these nations' just olaims:
"1. This policy is supplementary to and not
in derogation of FEC Oll/5l relating to Restitution
of Looted Property.
"2. For purposes of this policy, cultural
objects are defined to inelude movable objeets of
artistic, hietoricsl, religious, or educational
character, ineluding oolleetions of books, whieh
are irreplaceable through normal channels of pro-
duotion and commeree.
"3. The
SEORET

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
SEORET
-2-
"3. The Japanese Government should be required
to replase cultural objeets which were remeved frem
Allied countries by the Japanese or their agents
during the peried 1931-1945 which are net feund
within a reasonable time or whieh were destroyed by
the Japanese or their agents as a result of military
action during that period, in accordanee with the
following provisions:
"(a) Eaoh 1tem for whieh replacement 1s
olaimed must be precisely 1dentiried and
deseribed;
"(b) Reasonable evidenee must be preuented
that the item was in fact removed or destroyed
by the Japanese or their agents during the per-
10d 1931-1945;
"(o) The item must be shown to have been
an objeet of rarity and high value possessing
important sultural signifioanee in the country
or region of loss or destruction;
"(d) The item provided by the Japanese
Government in replasement must be of the same
period as, of identical or closely similar
character with, and of approximately equal
value to the 1tem lost or destroyed. If no
sueh item is obtainable in Japan, the olaim
for replacement must be denied;
"(e) Replaeement should not be made from:
"a. Cultural items designated by the
Japanese Government as National
Treasures (kokuho) prior to 1931
regardless of origin or ownership,
or designated as Japanese National
Treasures (kokuho) after 1931, 1f
they are of Japanese origin or were
owned by Jepanese publie institutions
or private individuals prior to l894,
or
"b. Early eollections significant for
their unity and completeness, such as
the Nara
SECRET

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
SACBST
-3-
the Mara Cemplex of the Koriuj1,
Yakushiji, Toshidaiji, Todaiji,
Kosukuji, Shin-Takushiji temples
and the Shoso-in and other similar
temple eomplexes.
"4. Replasement in accordance with the abeve
provisiens should be under the direstion of a beard
of specialists on Far Eastern cultural matters.
The board should be composed of three persons, not
nationals of eountries which suffered oultural
losses at Japan's hands, seleeted for their cempe-
tenee by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
in Japan from a list of persons nominated by the
nations suffering such cultural losses. The beard
should be established in Tokyo under the autherity
of the Supreme Commander as soon as a sufrieient num-
ber of verified replacement claims have been received
to warrant its entering on its duties. The foreign
curreney expenses of the board, which should be afford-
ed all practieal technical assistanee by the Supreme
Commander's Headquarters in the performanee of its
duties, should be allocated in an equitable manner,
as determined by the Supreme Commander, among the
nations submitting claims to it, and all other ex-
penses should be borne by the Japanese Goverament.
The Supreme Commander should take no part im formu-
lating the decisions of the board, but should be
empowered to review its decisions before transmitting
them to the Japanese Government for exeoution."
Prinoiple underlying above statement 1s that program
should be narrowly limited to replasement of lost objeets
with objests of identical, or, if that is impossible, of
closely similar character to specific objeot for which
replacement is claimed. Goal must be astually to replace
speeific object lost or destroyed, not to substitute
another more or less similar objeet. Asceptanee of this
coneept will require abandonment by China and other prin-
sipal elaimants of their claim to substitution in bulk for
vast quantities of cultural materials lost as result of
Japanese aggression.
Following is in answer specific points raised your
0-61906:
1. International
SECRET

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-4-
1. Internatlonal Law and Precegente -- International
presedents fer propesed cultural replasement program are
found in Artiele 247 of Treaty of Versailles, whleh obliged
Germany to replase contents of Library of Louvain, and in
identical Artieles of Italian, Hungarian and Bulgarian
Treaties following World War II, whieh require defeated
countries to replace, where possible, cultural ebjeets
removed from United Nations territeries with "objeets of
same kind as, and of approximately equivalent value to,
the objeets removed." Poliey statement providing for
replaeement of cultural objeets "of great rarity" was
introdueed Allied Control Authority Ceordinating Committee
1n Germany July 1946 by U.S. and was appreved in primeiple
but has not been implemented. Artiele 56 of Annex to
Fourth Hague Convention forbids seizure, destruetion or
wilful damage works of art and provides sush astions "should
be made subjeet of legal proceedings". kpts Office ef
Legal Adviser considers this provision dees not preelude
replacement program under authority qualified neutral
international body of type provided in above-queted draft
policy statement. Like many other aots of Allied Powers
during oecupation, transfers under replacement program
would be ratified in peaee settlement.
2. Historieal U.S. Position -- Historical U.s.
position has been and remains that oultural momuments and
works of art of a belligerent should be proteeted from
consequenees of war. Japen, & party to Hague Conventiens
of 1889 and 190l obligating signatories to proteet oul-
tural property from all seizure and destruction, disregard-
ed this principle, however, and committed large-seale
wanton destruction enemy cultural objests. By requiring
Japan to make partial redress for this destructien through
carefully hedged replaeement program affording ample pre-
teetion Japants own cultural heritage, we would not
vitiate but rather further confirm U.s. pesition.
Seeretary Hull in letter of June 21, 1943 to President
Reosevelt, and of July 16, 1943 to Vice Chairman David E.
Finley of the American Commission, stated:
"B. At the time of the Armisties:
"1. The Ameriean Commission for the Protestion
and Salvage of Artistie and Historio Monuments
should urge that the Armistiee terms inolude the
restitution of publie property appropriated by the
Ax18
SECRET

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
SEORST
-5
Axis Pewers. Where it is not possible to restere
such property elther beeause it has been destreyed
or oannet be found, restitution in kind mhould be
made by the Axis Powers to the countries from
which the property has been taken. In sueh enses,
the Commission should recommend a list of eguive-
lent works of art or historie documents whieh sheuld
be transferred to the invaded countries from Axis
museums or from the private collectiene of Axis
leaders."
3. Qultural Oblgats of Value Only in Gountry of
Qrigin -- Proposed policy would not involve replaeement
oultural losees devastated countries with art objeets
predueed in Japan. Believed olaimants would not desire
objeets of Jepanese origin, and in any event peliey is
so drawn that replacement from Japanese indigenous art
objeets is virtually exoluded.
4. Adminlstrative Coste -- Extent of program will
be limited at outset by requirement that items fer whish
replacements may be claimed must be objeets of "rarity
and high value possessing 1mportant oultural signifieance
in country or region of loss or destruotion". Only if
these conditlons are wet must an identical or closely
similar objeot of equal rarity and aporoximately equal
value be sought in Japan. Sinoe objeots of muoh rarity
and value are likely to be well known, their discovery
and delivery by Japanese Government under SOap's super-
visien should not present too great diffioulties.
It will be noted further, that BCap is to afford the
board of specielists "ell prasticsl tecnnieal aseistanee".
Normal reading of this phrase would exelude requests for
servises on such a seale as to require employment signi-
fieant numbers additional personnel, or utilizetion
existing peraonnel to point where performenee their other
duties wes impaired. As slready stated, however, it is
deubtful if program would assume suoh proportions as to
make its edminietration a problem. Difficult to pereeive
how in light above factors progrem could impair Janenese
ecenomic rehabilitetion.
5. Resolution of Doubt in Pavor of Qlaimants --
It will be noted that this provieion does not anpeer in
the present proposal. nowever, sinee it would be
unreasonable
SEORET

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-6
unrsasonable under the cireumstanses to require abselute
preof of loss as a result of Japanese aetion rather than
from other causes, enly "reasonable" evidenee is required
on this point.
6. Politieal Reperoussions Among Jepaness -- There
is reason to expest that essential reasonableness and
justiee of a replasement program of extremely limited
nature herein proposed would be recognized by most think-
ing Japanese. There would seem to be little basis for
belief that sueh a program would have unfertunate politieal
consequenees in Japan either now or in future.
DEPT of State earnestly hopes you will be able coneur
in revised poliey statement. Sinee it is desirable this
Govt reaeh agreed position on this problem soonest, your early
reply will be appreciated.
SEORET

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
COPY
28 July 1948
Honorable George C. Marshall
Secretary of State
Dear General Marshall:
This will acknowledge receipt of your letter of 13 July 1948.
I note that you are not at this time ready to concur with the views
expressed by General lMacArthur in his radio of 31 May 1948 regarding
the replacement of cultural objects.
The profound sense of injury of our Allies who suffered looting
of cultural objects by Japan is easily understood. On the other hand
two wrongs do not make a right and in addition to the adverse political
and administrative problems that the proposed method for the restitution
of cultural objects would create, I believe that such seizure of works
of art and science by a military occupant would violate Article 56 of
The Hague Convention No. IV of 18 October 1907.
The matter was discussed with General Clay on his recent visit
and his reaction was very similar to that of General MacArthur and
the position consistently maintained by the Department of the Army
with respect to SANACC 385 and various communications relating to the
subject. General Clay was of the opinion that if the United States
should change its position in Japan and permit reparations of Japanese
cultural objects, it would be very unfortunate step, that it would
legalize the Russian theft of such articles from Germany, and that it
would overturn all of our efforts for many years to set cultural objects
up as an item outside the scope of war booty. He further stated that
should we make such a decision with respect to Japan that we could
expect France to immediately claim a great many articles in Germany.
I therefore request that you reconsider the question in light of
the views of the Department of the Army and our Theater Commanders to
the end that a workable solution may be achieved.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Kenneth C. hoyall
Secretary of the Army

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.87)
SECRET
82
Roy
Dear Koyall:
You have drewn my attention in your letter of June 8, 194s
to e report that mambers of the United stetee Lalogation to the
Far Eastern Comsission have inproperly subsisted poliey pro-
pomls in subeumitteos or the Yac based on poliey papers pending
but not yot approved in aac.
ith respect to S%ACC s00 on the repleeement of lost
oulturel objecte, no proposal has been submitted to the so as
a U.S. proposal. Un the comtrary. the members of the U.S. Do-
legstion have boen coreful in cisoussing the master to indiouse
shat they were not suthorised to state the position of ths U.8.
Govermunt. The U.. Delegation did lay befere & msbooemeittes
of the Fäc en informl working paper drefted in the Department
baeed upon the suggestions of various Fat meebere dusing oub-
committee discumsions. Thet notion could possibly be construed
as a too libexal intorpvetation of tho provision of Sar0 294/1
with reapeet to inforal and prelimumery disouasions in Psc
worxing comittees. It has not, however, prejudiced the detar-
mimation of a U position on thie mtter.
1th epoot to  So9/1 on Japanes patent, the 
paper was proposod by the U manbar ofter this Govormoent had
been unsble over e period to arrive at an agreed propozal. In
participating in dissussions of tho Britiah paper in the VsC
exittee, the U. meaber mdo clear thet hs wes mot in poases
aion of adequate instructions to partioipate formlly ia the com
aideretion. The loportont of Steto was fully eware of the
reservetions oxpressed at one tise by the Dopertoent of the Amy
regarding the Cosirability of mkine froely availeble certain
patonte which tho spartent of the Amsy colieved should senain
seeret. Pandin, Late- my agreenont, the U.. repreasutative
cade aleor shst ho was mot inatruetod as to the mcoeptability
of the
The Homoroble
Konnoth C. Royall,
beesetary of the y.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.87)
06:
SECRET
a.
of the proposal as a whole snd balieved that hie Government
would have resorvations on at least one provlsion.
The pepere in qusstiom cannot te withdaeen frem the Fão
beesuse thay nere not fomelly sukmitted by the V.S. and besease
in amy eveat the approval of ether mmbers would be wogmired.
For the reasoms stoted sbovp there is no neoessity to sévise the
Commimsiem thet the papers do not represent e rimm U.S. sovesm-
montal poaitios. The mambere of the Delegation are under in-
structions to be attentive to the proviadoms of sañoc moe/l,
end to the interest of the Lmpartment of the Army is poliy qusstsoss
generally before the fd, in any expressione which my be imtespeeted
by the other masbore es stetomonts of the U.S, polioy.
With further referonee to the replecement of oultumel cbjeste,
which is the wubject of Oonerel Smearthur's mossage of Way Sl, the
Departmont of state sppreotetes thet such a program preamrts
sorious political and adcinistmtive problome im Japen. It balieves.
howwvar, thet the objootions of prinoiple have bomn ovesstated ane
thot it is cesirmablo to rocognime the profound samse ef tajusy of
our Allies who suffered looting of culturel objects by Jepem. It 15
hoped thet we may be ble to agree on meeeures whieh will tand to
sotisfy their just wishes vithout at the same time inveding the
culturul heritago of Jepen or iposing en unremeonnble buréen
upon the cccupyin foroas.
Faithrully youre,
O:RnBarnett
O:Nhemmondingor1dnd 7/9/48 2
 - 1726 (Blue)

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OFTHE ARMY
WASHINGTON
26 0CT 1948
:1
Reply macle 12/2/48
t. rligh. of the temy,
y C.E.
dlaxe
Honorable Robert A. Lovett
Under Secretary of State
rectyan.
Department of State
1.℃
94
Dear Bob:
F
General Marshall wrote me on 18 September concerning the replace-
ment of cultural objects lost or destroyed as a result of Japanese
11
1770
aggression. He euggested that Mr. Saltzman and General Eberle discuss
894.403/10-2648
740
the State Department's suggested solution but that if their considera-
500.463
tion of the matter indicated need for further consideration, he would
be glad to discuee the matter with me.
I have studied the proposals that have now been made and it is
true that the propoeed replacement program limits somewhat the area
of replacement. However, the principle remains the same and I still
believe that the proposed policy violates Article 56 of the Hague
Convention of 1907.
Article 56 reads "All seizure of, destruction or wilful damage
done to institutions of this character, historic monuments, works of
art and science, is forbidden, and should be made the subject of
legal proceedinge."
It is true that art replacement provisions have been included in
the Italian and other peace treaties. This, however, is quite a dif-
ferent matter since Italy was a party to the peace treaty and, by its
signature, gave its agreement to the provision.
We have strongly criticized the Ruesian seizure of the Sistine
Madonna and other works of art from Germany. The present proposal
would justify these seizures. We have opposed both the Russian and
French desire for art replacement in the Control Council in Berlin.
The present propoeal is inconsistent with the poeition we have already
taken. My own belief is that question of principle is involved as
874.403
well as a treaty obligation to which we are committed and that this
obligation cannot be violated in a minor degree any more than in a
major degree.
FILE
SECRET
2668

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Honorable Robert A. Lovett
The appointment of a eo-called neutral commission by the occupying
power to implement a program of seizure does not, so far as I can see,
relieve the occupying power of its obligation not to seize works of
art. For more than three years we have maintained a consistent policy
in keeping with our obligations under the Hague Convention. Our theatre
commanders both strongly urge tnat we continue this policy. It seems
to me that good faith, as well as consistency, requires that we main-
tain our past policy.
If you still feel that any further action on this matter is nec-
essary, I suggest that we discuss it further with General Marshall at
any convenient time after his return in accordance with his last letter.
Sincerely yours,
Kenneth C. Royal1
Secretary of the Army
SECRET
2

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.72)
SECRET
anerih
1948 DEC 
82
Ontober Sest to r. Lwett on the subjeat of roplaeomt 
cultural objeets whics were lost or destrayed as e poaalh ar
Jepeneoo agrzoaaien.
lo lie lester Soorstary Loyall repeotoù his belief thst
the proosture whiuh the State Lopartnas had peopoesd Ss Shde
1907. It coeme to un that the poopee molutlon of she poetdem
uity to the victi of Jeapemeso csgrenstom wheee eakleee
or trho sort =ith whiek this wattar Heele. have either Been
or lost as o voault of the astioms of the Jepomeese
tnoe reoeipt of Socrstery Loyell'e letter of Setsber Beth,
me evo elo co erse to she Leeal Ateiwer ot e Stete Dogere
ent the eoti.s f ppliontiom of Areiele Es os she aga
mvon' n a7 197 to tho proposed peroeedore ema heve obtadeed
  au opni.a copy of 1  alo. I 
bo v ra tetal af you woule lot ee hmve yoer eomeaes sm thie
T clolo 1  see you wall eree elae 2e f we omba
nythlnp srsv oo reetloable to pmeiée mome sora or
psi  co 2o  o tegeerds Cer poeemably oeel fl
15
Aetlee
8

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
November 1, 1948
TO:
0 - Mr. Saltaman
PM I
FROL:
L - Mr. Tate
SUBJECT:
REPLACEMENT OF CULTURAL OBJECTS REMOVED OR
DESTROYED BY THE JAPANESE
E
2
1. A legal opinion is desired as to whether the proposed
FW 894.403/10-2648
policy statement, on replacement of cultural objects lost or
destroyed as a result of Japanese aggression during the period 1931-
1946, would require action by SCAP in violation of Article 56,
Annex to the Hague Convention No. IV of 18 October 1907 (Hague
Regulations of the Rules of Land Warfare), which reads as follows:
"All seizure of, destruction of, or wilful damage to,
institutions of this character (e.g. institutions dedicated
to religion, charity and education, the arts and sciences),
historic monuments, works of art and science, is forbidden,
and should be made the subject of legal proceedings."
2. The proposed policy statement would require the Japanese
to replace by objects of identical or closely similar character,
"culturel objects" (e.g. movable objects of artistic, historical,
religious or educational character, including collections of books,
which are irreplaceable through normal channels of production and
commerce) which were removed from Allied countries by the Japanese
or their agents during the period 1931-1945, and which are not found,
"or which were destroyed by the Japenese or their agents as a result
of military action". This language requires some slight modification
to express the objective without ambiguity. It should cover cultural
objects removed by the Japanese and not found, and cultural objects
FW894.403/
destrojed by the Japanese or their agents, "either wantonly or as a
result of Japanese military action."
3. The issue raised by the question is the punishment which
is to be visited on a nation which violates Article 56 of the Hague
493&onvention by seizing or destroying the "cultural heritage" of another
nation. If the nation that has been despoiled wins the war, can it
require the despoiler to give up part of its own "cultural heritage"
as a replacement for the objects seized or destroyed; or is such
/10.2648
punishment itself a violation of Art. 56, as a seizure of the "cultural
heritage" of the oriinal despoiler?
4. Article 56

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
4. Article 56 of the Hague Convention provides some remedy
for its violation. According to the English version all seizure
and destruction of cultural objects "should be made the subject
of legal proceedings". The French and only official text reads:
"doit etre poursuivle!" Although the word "poursuivie" might
properly be construed to inchude either criminal prosecution of
the guilty persons, or civil suit for recovery of the objects or
damages for their loss or destruction, the history of the text
indicates that the words should be translated "should be prosecuted".
Article 56 apparently originated in Liaber's Code of 1863, issued
by the U.S. War Department as General Order No. 100 (Articles 34-36).
That Code requires that classical works of art, libraries, scientific
collections, or precious instruments should be secured against all
possible injury, and in no case be sold or given away, nor "privately
appropriated or wantonly destroyed or injured". In the final draft
of the Brussels Conference of 1874, Article 8 provided that all
seizure or destruction of monuments, works of art or scientific
museums "doit être poursuivie par l'autorité compétente", language
which clearly imports criminal prosecution. In the Hague Conference
of 1899 the words "par 1'antorite competente" were dropped, "in order
not to raise here a question of competence". 1 Proceedings of the
Hague Peace Conference of 1899, p. 563. The present text was adopted:
"Toute saisie, destruction ou degradation intentionelle de semblables
établissements, de monuments historiques, d'oevres d'art et de science,
est interdite et doit être poursuivie". This language was repeated
without alteration by the Hague Conference of 1907. See Franklin,
Municipal Property under Belligerent Occupation, 38 Am. J. Int. Law
383-389.
5. The fact, however, that Art. 56 of the Hague Convention provides
only for criminal prosecution of the persons guilty of the crime in ques-
tion, does not make illegal or ineguitable the punishment of the nation
which permits its armies or its nationals to commit the offense. As to
that the Convention is silent. Interna ional practice, however, throws
considerable light on what is internationally regarded as equitable in
the premises. Article 247 of the Treaty of Versailles contains the
untertaking of Germany to furnish to the University of Louvain, manu-
scripts, incunabula, printed books, maps and cbjects of collection
corresponding in number and value to those destroyed in the burning
by Germany of the Library of Louvain. Article 75 paragraph 9 of the
Italian Treaty of Peace provides that where it is impossible for Italy
to make restitution of objects of artistic, historical or archaeological
value, belonging to the cultural heritage of the United Nations from
whose territory such objects were removed by force or duress by Italian
forces, authorities or nationals, Italy shall transfer to the nation con-
cerned "objects of the same kind as, and of approximately equivalent
value to, the objects removed, in so far as such objects are obtainable
in Italy." Similar provisions are found in the Treaties of Peace with
Hungary

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
Hungary (Art. 24, par. 3), and Bulgaria (Art. 22, par. 3). If Japan
can properly be compelled to enter into a Treaty of Peace providing
for replacement of cultural objects, no reason is perceived why the
same result cannot be obteined during the occupation under the Terms
of Surrender.
6. In conclusion, there appears to be no legal reason why Japan
cannot be required to replace, in so far as possible, the cultural
heritege which she has destroyed or which she has removed and cannot
return. A moral objection might be reised in that such replacement
robs future and innocent generations of Japanese of the part of their
own cultural heritage, in order to atone for the misdeeds of the present
generation. However, it seems to be a question of equity as between two
innocent future generations, that of the despoiler and that of the des-
poiled, and in such case equity has viewed with complacency the visiting
of the wrongs of the fathers on future generations.
ok5dee
e20
L:L/P:CESnow:lml

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.90)
DC/R
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRET
hile
DATE Nóvember 12, 1948
TO
Us Policy on Replacement of Cpltural Objects Lost or Destroyed
SUBJECT:
as a Result of Japanese Aggression.
 I have not had anything to do with this problem and
come into the picture after decision apparently already
has been reached regarding the Department's position.
894.403/11-1248
I do not feel th t I can agree with the principle which
underlies the Department's proposal. I also feel that
administratively the proposal is unsound and would result
in little or no good and much lasting bitterness on all
sides. I hope that the mere fact that a question has
been raised in the FEC will not forever tie our hands to
the proposition that we must continue to recognize the
competence of FEC to handle such a question. It would be
better, I believe, to examine all questions before the
r
FEC with a view to eliminating those which in the interests
of the United States should be eliminated from FEC con-
sideration.
I note that NA is not listed for concurrence in the
attached memo to the Acting Secretary and I merely pass
this on to you for such value as it mey have.
uf
202.13,1498
14.12.1B.
W hile there is much merit  Bishpis
point g vreer I believe ther in thie cone
we shiuld at leat do as menh ao ite
ash the aissey s resd the rerant resinad
still lgeet I voved t le in po
veriling in.
6
Vwa
1949
onits way.
18549

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
POS/J - Mr. Schuler
February 24, 1949
FE
- Mr. Allison
Return of Japanese Swords.
Reference Tokyo's despatch no. 727 of November 12,
1948 and Pos/J's araft instruction concerning the Japanese
Government's request for the return of certain swords of
artistic value.
1 woncer if it would not be cesirable to obtain
formel com ent frcen the ar Department on Tokyo's despatch
berore replyinp to Tokyo. It is notec that the swords
in vuestion were originally surrenaereu oy the Japanese
uncer SCAt's General Crder No. 1, that the swords were
believeu to have been renoved from Japan by members of
the armen forces, anu that the Japanese Government's
request for the return of the swords is supported by the
C.I.. pection of sCaP. Unuer these circumstances a
formal statenent of the ar vepartment's position would
seen to be in order. The War Department's comment might
be requested in particular on the C.I.uE. assertion that
the swords "were taken in violation of special regulations
and a later General Headquarters oraer for the protection
of these swords and their retention oy their Japanese
owners" (as reported in Tokyo's despatch).
It is also suggesteo tnat the second paragraph of
the uruft instruction would not seem to present a very
convincing line of argument for the retention of the
sworas. ould not the case be somewhat stronger if this
paragraph were omitted and reliance placed on the argu-
ments set forth in the thire puragraph of the uraft
instruction?
FE:RBacon:fhh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.94)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
DC
for Japan
12,1948.
01948
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: keturn to Jupen of words Classified :s Objects of Art.
STATE
5
1048 NOV 22 PM
894.403/11-1248
E0
Tife honorable
5
LEZ
The secretary of stete,
Washington.
Six:
7
C.1
I h ve the honor to invite the Department's attontion to a
request by the Civil Information and Education Section of General
FE
Headquarters, supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, for the
Depertment's  ssistance in effecting the return to Japan of cortain
swords which are classified :s art objects and which have presumably
been taken to the United tates by United States militery personnel.
0
OFD
The Civil Information and Education Section states that these
swords were received b. merican personnel through error and gives
OL1
the following ccount of the occurrence. The Japanese Governmont
DS
was directed in October, 1945, to surrender all rms to the Allied
forces and in accordance with this order swords were surrendered by
V
individual Japanese to locel police stations. In January, 1946,
pos
civilian Japanese were permitted by directive to retain swords
CS/A
classified us art objects, but in the interim, many swords of artistic
DCR
vilue were turned over to merican personnel, although special regu-
lations had meanwhile been issued for the protection of these words.
as a result of the United States military practice in Japan of issmtn
to military personnel surrendered military swords, these swords were
given to individual Americans and presumably removed to the United
APR 2 9 1949
States.
nclosed is a copy of : list prepered by the Japanese Government
describing certain swords of artistic value and indicating the owners
of these swords, us well us the police station and Allied personnel
to whom the s ords were surrendered. The Civil Information and
sducation Section states that the enclosed list contains the best
description of the swords and most. complete identification of Allied
recipients available in Japen, and suggests thet if necessary, the
assistance of museum personnel and art dealers be obtained in order
to identify the swords.
1n1
Alsb enclosed
UNCLASSIFIED
Dis

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 727,
November 12, 1948.
-2-
also enclosed is : copy of & petition deted October 4, 1948,
fron the Jupen se Government reguesting return of the swords listed
in the first enclosure.
he ivil Infortion und ducation section considers that
efforts shoulu be m de towerd efrecting the return of these swords
under the uti.ority of nd in accord nce with the procedure deseribed
by .cc , proved infonlly by the tate-ar-Navy Coordinating
Committee on Junuary 26, 1947. 3..Ncc 322 stetes that the Dopartmont
of state shoulu take steps by meens of  ppropri te publicity and
correspondence to indicate the responsibility of the United States
Goverwient in respect to the return of wrongfully taken cultural
objects nd to reguest tne ussistence of individuals and organizations
concerned in locutin: und returnin: such ob jects. The Civil Information
and duc tien section h s given ussurence thet the swords listed in
the enclo ure ure considered important art objects in accordance with
established criteriu nd states its opinion thet these swords were
wrongfully removed from Jupan within the meaning of Ncc 322 because
they were taken in violution of special regulations and a later General
headquurters order or the protection of these swords end their re-
tention by their Japanese owners.
The Civil Iaformation and ducntion Section states that the
instant case appears to he the sole blenish on the record of United
tates forces in Jupen in regard to despoliation of cultural pro-
perties, and th: t accordingly efforts provided for by Sincc 322
should be made to right the record. It is cuggested, therefore, that
the moral aspect of t is case be emphusized.
Respectfully yours,
brsecaee.
W.J. Sebald
unciosures:
1. Copy of list by Jupanese
Government describing
certain artistic swords;
2. Copy of petition dated
Uctober 4, 1948, from
Japanese Government re-
questing return of swords.
350
RBFinn:hh
Original and Ozalid to Department,
UNCLASSIFLED

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
no osure o. 1 to Despatch No. 727 dated November 12,
1946 fron the  nited St-tes Political Adviser for
MROLASSIFIED
Japan, Tokyo, s bicct: "heturn to Japan of Swords
Classified es ebjects of Art."
CUFY
LIST CF .T. U I.A.O. SWORDS, S HENDERED TO THE OCCUPATION FORCES AND NOT HETURNED
(Prep red by the scncetion ministry)
Note: I.A.O. - Iaportant Art Utject; .T. - ational Treesure. Both terms ere defined by Japenese law.
Police stations that nandled
Yames and sacresses
Names of allied
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Forces
Kiyoharu Ishikawa (930
Presented to the 637th
Katena, with inecription "Made by Fedayoshi,
Tsuchiura Police Station,
Tsrchiureshi, Iberagi-ken)Anti-tank Regiment.
inhabitent f Hizen Province' (I.A.C.)
Iharagiken, September 29, 1945
8 Cctober 1945 (Commander
Lt. Col. Nathanial Word)
Katana, having no inscription, ettributed
to Aoe school (I.A.0.)
suchiura Police Stetion,
Kiyoheru Ishikawa (030
Presented to the 637th
Iharasiken, Septomber 29, 1?45 Psnchiurashi, Ibaragi-ken) Anti-tank Regiment,
8 October 1945 (Commander
Lt. Col. Nathaniel Word)
Tachi, with inscription Marimune' (I.A.0.)
Tsuchiura Police Station,
Viyohani Ishikawa (930
Presented to the 637th
Iterasiken, Sept ember 20, 1945 Tsuchiurashi, Iberagi-ken) Anti-tank Regiment,
8 0ctober 1945 (Commander
Lt. Col. Nethaniel Word)
Tachi, vith inscription hir, in-
Esuchiura Police Station,
Shigeo Acano (1,161
habitant of Sagami Province (I.A.0.)
Ibaragi-ken, October 1, 1045
Tsuchiura-shi, Ibaragi-ken) Presented to the 637th
Anti-tank Regiment,
8 October 1945(Commander
Lt. Col. Nathaniel Word)
Tachi, with inscription 'Yukuhire of Bingo
Takasaki Police Station,
Shozaturo Inoue (61
Presented to the 637th
Province' (I.A.O.)
Gunme-ken, January 15, 1946
Renjaku-cho, Takasaki-ehi, Anti-tank Regiment, 8
Gumma-ken)
October 145 (Commander
Lt. Col. Nathaniel Word)
UNCLASSIFIED
Katana,

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 727, November 12, 1948
-2-
Folice stations thet handled
Names and andresses
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Tames of Allied Forces
Katana, having no inscription, sttributed
Takasaki Police Station,
Shozaburo Inoue (61
Presented to the 7th
to Mihara-Massie (I.A.0.)
Gunma-ken, Jamary 15, 1946
Fenjaku-cho, Takasaki- Army Military Govern-
shi, Gumme-ken)
ment, 17 April 1946.
Katana, having no inscription. Known as
Mejirc Police Station,
Iemasa Tokugawa (1, 64 Presented to the 7th
the 'Honjo-Masamune' (N.T.)
Tokyo, December, 1946.
Yoyogi-Cyama-machi,
Cavelry Regiment through
shibuya-ku, Tokyo)
Mejiro Police Station,
18 January 1946. Re-
sponsible person, Serg.
Colly D. Beimo.
Tachi, with inscription Waganiter,
Mejiro Police Station,
Iemasa Tokugawa (1,064 Fresented to the 7th
inhabitant of Csafune, Bizen Province'
Tokyo, December, 1046
Yoyogi-Oyama-machi,
Cavalry Hegiment through
(I.A.O.)
Shibuy:-ki, Tokyo)
Mejiro Police Station,
18 January, 1946. Re-
sponsible person, Serg.
Colly D. Beimoj
Techi, with inscription 'Rai-Kunitoshi'
Mejiro Police Station,
Iemass Tokugawa (1.064
Presented to the 7th
(1.4.0.)
Tokyo, December, 1946
Yoyogi-Oyama-machi,
Cavelry Regiment through
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo)
Mejiro Police Station,
18 Jenmary 1946. Re-
sponsible person, Serg.
Colly D. Beimo.
Tento, with inscription 'Akihiro,
Cjiya Police Station,
Saizaburo Nishiwaki
Presented to the 26th
inhabitant of Sagami Province' (I.A.0.)
Cjiya, Fita-Honuma-gun,
(Cjiya-machi, Kita-
Company M.P., 2nd Bn.,
Niigata-ken, October 5, 1945
nonuma-gun, Niigata-ken) the 303rd Regiment,
97th Division stationed
in Takena City, 29 Novem-
ber, 1945. (Deputy Chief,
MP lst Lt. Dafeld Dengmem).
Kodachi,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
Encloeure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
-3
No. 7?7, November 12, 1948
Police Ststicns that handled
Nanes and addrezses
Items
the sworde and dates
of theowrors
Names of Allied Forces
Kodachi, with inscription 'Norifusa' (I.A.O.) Kofu Policc Station,
Yoshihiko Vchida
Presented with other
Yamanashi-ken, May, 1946
(Sakura-mechi, Kofu-
swords through Kofu
shi)
Police Station to 97th
Fielc Artiler Bn..
Hay 146.
Techi, with inscription ' asatsune',
Kumano-heyatama
Presented with three
Braid-wrepped hilt (N.T.)
Jinja (Shingu-machi,
other sworcs to lst
Shingu-sni, Wakayama-
Lt. Word H. Marlis.
ken)
30th Infantry Regiment.
98th Division, 17
January 1946.
Tachi, with inscription 'kei-Kuimitau'
Sage Police Station,
Metsubara-jinja
Presented to en Allied
(N.T.)
Sega City, October 13, 1945
(Matsubara-machi,
Armed Force B, October,
Sags-shi, Saga-ken)
1945 (Commarider Lt. Col.
Antonio)
Tento, with inscription (Kunihiro' (N.T.)
Sare Police Station,
Matsubara-jinja,
Presented to an Allied
Saga City, October 13, 1945
(Matsubara-machi,
Armed Force B, October
Saga-shi, Saga-ken)
1945 (Commarider Lt. Col.
Antonio).
Tachi, with inecription''Tomomura' (I.A.O.)
Cita Police Station,
(Hachiman, Hachiman-
Delivered to a certain
Oita City, Jamary 19, 1946
mra, Oita-gun, Cita-
occupation force stationed
ken)
in the locality, December,
1946. (The name of the
regiment is unknown, but
probably 32nd Field
Artilery Regiment, judging
from the mark of red arrew).
UNCLASSIFIED
Latana,

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
-4
No. 727, November 12, 1048
Police statione thet handled
Jamee and ecdresses
Items
the svorcs and datfs
of theowners
Nemes of Allied Forces
Katana, vith inecrintion 'Humbly mde by
Shishuku Police Station,
viyaseka-jinja
Presentrc to 3ra Bn..
Shume-no-kami Ippei Yasushiro' (N.T.)
Kagoshina-ken, December 6, 1ch5
Pth .arine Corp., 24
February eh6 (Commander
Lt. Col. Howel)
Fatana, vith inscription 'Akihiro, in-
Lokbn Police S-ation,
Kagoehira-jina
Presented to 3rd Bn.,
hebitant of Sagami Province' anc tx
Kagoshina-ken, December 31, l9L5 (Haito-ms chi)
t Marine Corp, 2 January,
date of 3ra year of Keitoku ire (.T.)
1946 (Commander, It. Col.
Heyword).
Katena, no inscription, but is considerec Kokubu Police tation,
Kagoshima-jingi
Presented to 3rd Br.,
to be the work of Norishige (N.T.)
Kagoshima-ken, December 31, 945 (Haito-mach1)
r Corp. 4 Fetruary,
1946 (Commander, Lt. Col.
Heyworc).
Tachi, with inscription 'Kunimune' (N.T.) Kagoshima Police Station,
Terekuni-jinja
Fresented to 3rd Bn.,
Januery 70, 1946
(Yacashita-cho
8th Marine Corp, 4 Februry
Kegoshima-sni)
1946 (Commander, Lt. Col.
Howel).
Tachi, with ring-shaped hilt-top (F.T.)
Aiura Police Strtion,
"aresak1-ken, April 28, 1946.
Kamishima-jinja
Presented to 2nd Bn.,
(Konega-machi,
10th Regiment, Marine
Kitamatsura-gun,
Corp. 8 May 1946 (1st Lt.
Nagasak1-ken)
J.C. Gasser)
Tachi, with inecription 'Yasuie of oki
Province' (I.A.C.)
Noshiro Police Station,
Tero Anno (7 Yorozu-
Col. Hoscar, 457 Airborne
Akita-ken, October 10, 1945
cho. Noshiro-shi,
stationed at Akita. Do
Akita-ken)
livered to Capt. Moran.
Ch. Public Sefety Section,
Military Government Team.
Tachi,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 727, November 12, 1948
-5-
Police Statiins tht handled
Names and acdresses
Items
the sworde and dates
of the owmers
lames of Allied Rorces
Tachi, with irscription 'Kuniymki'
Kuancto-kita Po'ice Station,
Takehiko Motada
Fresented to the Occupation
(N.T.)
Kuemoto City, December 10,
Kuemoto-sni, Ce-aichi)
Aray through the Police
1945
Station, December 21 and 22,
1945. Commender of the
Regiment Col. McHarlnd Ch.
Kumamoto Mi!itary Governmert
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Cfficer, Major Sobel.
Tachi, with inscription 'Kanemiten Yorezawa Po'ice Station,
Noriaki "esugi
Presented to the Occupation
of Osafune, Bizen Province,
October 5, 1945
(Minamihoribeta-machi,
Arny through the Police
August, 2nd year of Embun Ere'
Yonezawa-eni)
Station, December 21 end 22,
1945. Conmender of the
Regiment, Col. McHerland Ch.
Kumamoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Techi, with inscriotion 'Nagemitsn' Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki Resugi
Presented to the Cccupation
(I.A.O.)
Cctober 9, 1045
(Minamihoribata-machi,
Army through the Police
Yonezawa-shi)
Stetion, December 21 and 22,
1945. Comander of the
Regiment Col. McHarland Ch.
Kumamoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Naginata. No inscription, but is
Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki Uesugi
Presented to the Occupation
considered to be the work of
October 5, 1945
(Minamihoribata-machi,
Army through the Police
Norifusa. Mounted.
Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 2land 22,
1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. McHarland Ch.
Knamoto Military Goverhment
Team. Lt. Col. Link; m.
Officer, Major Sebel.
UNCLASSIFIED
Yari,

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
-6-
No.727, November 12, 1948
Police Stations that han led
Names and accresses
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Names of Allied Forces
Yari, with inscription 'Mace by "metada, Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki Leengi
Presented to the Occupation
Yamashiro Province. December, 2nd year Uctober , 945
(Minamihoribata-mechi, Army through the Police
of Bunroku Era' (I.A.0.)
Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 2l and
22, 1045. Commander of the
Eegiment, Col. McHarlmd Ch.
Kunmoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Cfficer, Major Sobel.
Tachi, with inscription 'Hasebe-Kuni-
Yonezawa Police S:etion,
Noriaki "eengi
Presented to the Occupetion
obu'. Mounted es "chigatane (I.A.0.)
Uctober 5, 1945
(Minamihoribeta-machi, Army throngh the Police
Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 21 and
22, 1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. McHarland Ch.
Kuamoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Neginata. No inscription. Attributed
Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki "esugi
Presented to the Occupation
to Kitsutada. Kounted. (I.A.O.)
Octoher 5, 1045
(Minamihoribata-
Army through the Police
machi, Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 21 and 22,
1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. McHarland
Ch. Kuamoto Military Govern-
ment Team. Lt. Col. Link;
Adm. Officer, Major Sobel.
Naginata,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo'e Despatch
-7-
No. 727, November 12, 1948
Police Statione that handled
Tamee and addressee
Items
the swords and detes
of the owners
Names of Allied Forces
Naginata. No inscrintion. Attributed to
Yonezawa Police Stption,
Noriaki "esugi
Presented to the
Sukemura. Mounted. (I.A.0.)
October 5, 1945
(inamihoribeta-machi,
Occupation Army through
Yonezawa-shi)
the Police Station,
December 21 and 22, 1945.
Commander of the Regiment,
Col. McHarland. Ch.
Kuamoto Filitary Government
Teem. Lt. Col. Link;
Adm. Officer, Major Sobel.
Techi, with inscription 'Motoshige' and
Minami Police Station,
Shinto Shimada
Presented to the
the date 'Septemher, 2nd year of Kagen
Kumamoto-shi, April 21,
(Shimazaki-cho,
Occupation Force through
Era' (I.A.0.)
1046.
Kuamoto-eni,
the Police Station, 22
Kuamoto-ren).
April, 1946. Reg. Com.
Col. McHarland. Ch.
Military Goverment Team,
Lt. Col. Link. Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Note:
Above exact repredvction of original in spelling. (Hi)
INCLASSIFIED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 727
UNCLASSIFIED
dated November 12, 1948 from the
United States Politicel Adviser for
Japen, 'okyo, subject: "Return to Japen
of words Classified as Objeots of Art."
COPY
JA PAESE GOVRN T
CTRAL LLION D COORDT AO: OFFICE
TO
: Jeneral. etdquarters of the upreme Commander for the
Allied rowers.
FRO..
: Centrai Laison nd oordination Uffice, Tokyo.
 UiJ Cr : Re:uest for  estitution of words Designated as National
Treasure or .anctioned as Important art Cbject.
0.1.0.0. No. 3453 (22a)
4 ctober 1948
i. . eference:
u. rarteraph AI, of  neral urder ..o. 1 (Directive No. 1).
b. C. .e.oranu G 388.3 (23 ct 45) CIS, subject: "Instruc-
tions concernine the urrender of arms by the Civilian
Popul tion of Japan."
c. Cemorundum  000.4 (12ov 45) I, subject: "Policies
and rrocedures rel ting to the .rotection of rts, onuments,
and Culturel and Religious sites and Ins tallations."
d. 0P .emorandum G 386.3 (10 Jan 46) CIS, subject: Retention
of words Classified :s Ubjects of rt in civilian Pands."
2. The inistry of Education reports us follows:
In accordance with 'aragraph XI of the reference General Order
No, 1, the rms in the possession of the civilian population were
necessitated to be delivered to the Allied rorces. Under the regu-
lations of the l.ome l. inistry, the swords of aeshetic value were per-
mitted for the time being to be r tained in civilian hands in readiness
for delivery, being registered at the police stations. llowever, some
of the swords designated as national treasures or sanctioned as im-
portant art objects as shown in the attached list, were erronoously
delivered to the Allied units in the field through police stations
and hve not yet been restituted to the owners! The situation has
caused not a little anxiety to the owners, besides being a matter for
regret in view of the preservation of Japsnese old art objects.
3. Under the above circumstances the Central Liaison and Coordination
Office requests the General headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
allied Powers be good enough to ascertain the present whereabouts of
these swords and to make possible the restoration of these objects to
the proper ownere.
FOR  DCTOR-:
(K. Yoshida)
Chief of Liaison Section,
Central Liaison and Coordination Office
Enclosure:
List of swords us stated above.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.95)
A41949
894.403/11~1245
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There is enclosed a copy of despateh No. 727, dated
November 12, 1948, from the Office of the leting United States
Political Adviser for Japan, ontitled "Return of Swords Classified
as Objects of Art, " which invited the Department's attention to a
request by the Civil Information and Education Sestion of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, for the
Department's assistance in effeeting the return to Japan of esrtain
swords which are classified as art objects and which have presumably
been taken to the United States by United States military personnel.
You will note the assertion of the Civil Information and mducatiem
Section that the swords in question "were taken in vielation of
special regulations and a later General Headquarters order for the
protection of these swords and their retention by their Japanese
owners."
The Department is inalined to the view that the swords in
894.403/11-1248
question were given and received in good faith and that from the
practical standpoint, it would be an exceedingly expensive and
2
time-consuming task to trace, secure and return such weapons to
Japan.
Before replying to the Acting Political Adviser for Japan
the Department would appreciate having your views as soon as
possible.
Sincerely yours,
8
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Copy of despatch No. 727 from
894.403
Tokyo, dated November 12, 1948.
ca
4 1949
MAR
The Honorable
KennothoOoRogahix Tracy S. Voorhees,
CSLA
Assistant Secretary of the Army.
Nalos
DHS.
wo
mmo
POS(J)DCBuchanan/rk
2/28/49
POS
NA
0
0:CVHulick:mmf 3/3/49
C7982

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
tidential
TO
: L/P - General Snow
LEGAL ADVISER
DATE: December 20, 1948
FROM : POS - Mr. Schuler
DEC 21 1948
SUBJECT:
for Jepan on the return of certa swords alleged to be art objects.
Before takin: action on this matter we would appreciate the
opinion of your office on the applicability of SWNCc 322 to th
matter in uestion.
FW894.40
2
48
SCB.
P: P0S/J: DoBuchanan/dfe
12/20/48

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
pos
TO
POS/J - Mr. Schuler
DATE Fobruary 24, 1949
FROM
FE
- Mr. Allison
uStecoum Branch
POB/A
SUBJECT:
Return of Japanese Swords.
FEB 24 1949
DEPARTBENT GE STATE
Reference Tokyo's despatch no. 727 of November 12,
1948 and POS/J's draft instruction concerning the Japanese
Government's request for the return of certain swords of
artistic value.
I wonder if it would not be desirable to obtain
formal comment from the War Department on Tokyo's despatch
before replying to Tokyo. It is noted that the swords
in question were originally surrendered by the Japanese
under SCAP's General Order No. 1, that the swords were
FW
believed to have been removed from Japan by members of
the armed forces, and that the Japanese Government's
request for the return of the swords is supported by the
894.403/11
C.I.&E. Section of SCAP. Under these circumstances a
formal statement of the War Department's position would
seem to be in order. The War Department's comment might
be requested in particular on the C.I.&E. assertion that
the swords "were taken in violation of special regulations
and a later General Headquarters order for the protection
of these swords and their retention by their Japanese
owners" (as reported in Tokyo's despatch).
It is also suggested that the second paragraph of
I
the draft instruction would not seem to present a very
1248
convincing line of argument for the retention of the
swords. Would not the case be somewhat stronger if this
paragraph were omitted and reliance placed on the argu-
ments set forth in the third paragraph of the draft
instruction?
FU 894.403
CS/H
H
61228
FE:RBacon:fhh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
FILE COPY
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
nfidential
Dc/k
TO
POS/J - Mr. Schuler
DATE: February 8, 1949
FROM :
0
- J. F. Ray, Jr.
SUBJECT:
Return to Japan of Swords Classed as Objects of Art (USPOLAD Dispatch
727 - November 12, 1948)
I have checked informally with the Department of the Army on
the subject of the above dispatch. Neither Plans and Operations
Division nor Civil Affairs Division appears to view with any favor
the suggestion of CI&E, SCAP, as transmitted by the Acting Political
Adviser.
It is my understanding that the Department of the Army considers
the proposal, to attempt to return the swords in question to Japan,
as unnecessary, undesirable and impractical.
FW 894.403/11-1248
PUBLIC AFFAIRS OVERSEAS PROGRAM STAFF
Japan-Korean Branch
POS/J
FEB -81949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FW894.403
0: JFRay, Jr:mwc
CS/H
/11-1248

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
Confidontial
POS/)
DEC 3 0 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
December 28, 1948.
To: POS - Mr. Schuler
ARE JAPANESE SWORDS CULTURAL OBJECTS WRONGFULLY TAKEN,
WITHIN MEANING OF SWANCC 322.
1. A legal opinion is requested as to whether certain
swords taken from the Japanese by United States Army authori-
ties are "cultural objects" which have been "wrongfully taken"
within the meaning of SWAnCc 322.
2. The Supreme Commander has been assured by the Central
Liaison and Coordination Office of the Japanese Government that
the listed swords ere designated as "national treasures" or
sanctioned as "important art objects". Only an expert on the
subject of Japanese art and weapons could pass on the validity
of the claim. However, in January 1946, after these particular
swords had been taken, SCAP by directive permitted civilian
Japanese to retain swords "classified as art objects". If
FW 894.403/11
swords may be properly classified as "art objects", they are
by the same token "cultural objects". It would be inconsistent
for SCAP, in view of his owm order of 7 January 1946, now to
deny that these swords as a class are "cultural objects". Of
course, the fact may still be disputed, in any individual case,
by an expert familiar with Japanese weapons.
3. The swords vere turned in to the United States authori-
ties in response to a directive to the Japanese Government of
7 October 1945, to surrender all "arms" to the Allied Forces.
It is believed that under this order the surrender of swords
which were either "national treasures" or "important art objects"
should not have been required. Like medieval suits of armor,
they are in this day and age more properly "art objects" than
I
"arms". This was apparently recognized by the order 7 January
一
248
1946. It is concluded that, insofar as the swords in question
were "cultural objects", they were "wrongfully taken" within
the meaning of SWANCc 322.
F0894.403
Conrad E. Snow
L:L/P: CESnov: vb
12-28-48
111+248

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
SRNT SELRY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS
File
1948 DEC 10 PM 12 32
8 Decomber 1948
DEFARIMENT OF STATE
Dear Charlie:
294 403/15.2648
On looking over this matter of replacement of
cultural objects by the Japanese on which you wrote
me on 2 December, I find that r. noyall has suggested
that if any further action is felt necessary he would
be lad to discuss the matter with General Marshall
after his return in accordance with General Marshall's
last letter.
1 do not see that there is much to be gained by
our examining together any intricacies of the legalisms
in this matter. ur. koyall assures me that he is ready
to go forward at any time in accordance with his letter.
Central
c/R 894.
MieenH Arape
Sincerely yoars,
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the imy
The Honorable
Charles E. Saltzman
assistant Secretary of State
for Occupied Areas
Department of state
894.403
JUL 1 5 1952
HW
FILED
CS/H
X 100179
445

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.91)
FILL SOPY
 A AS E SHA
Jupam-Koreem Beomoh
POB/I
MAR 8 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
49
üy dear ü. Secretary:
There is enclosnd a copy of deapatch No. 727, dated
November 12, 1948, from the Office of the cting inited States
Political Adviser for Japan, entitled "Teturn of words Classified
as Objects of Art," which invited the opartment's attention to 
request by the Civil Infarmation arl Education Seetion of General
Headquarters, Supreme Cowmander Cor tho Alliod Pomers, for the
Departmant's ausiutance in sffooting the oturn to Japan of certain
mwords which are alassified as art objacts and wich have presumably
been taken to the mited States by nited States military pereennel.
You will note the assortion oi th- ivil Information and ducation
Section that the swords in question "were taken in violetion of
special regulations and & later Ceneral eudq arters orter for the
protection of trese mwords en! t eir retontion by their Japanese
ownere."
The Department is inclined to the vien that the swords in
questlon were iven and recsived in  cod fatth and that from the
practical standpoint, it sould be an exceadingly expensive and
time-conmumin task to trace, socure and roturm such weapons to
Japan.
Before replying to teo Actina Paliticel Advioer for Jepan
the Droartaent vonld ap reciate avine your views as soon as
ible
sincerely yrs
2
now
Chariso ltaman
415/49
Assistant Snoretary
nelosure:
Copy of dompatch Yo. 727 from
Tolyo, Kated November 12, 1943.
The Honorable
KwthxxyyTracy S. Voorhees,
Assistant Socretary of the Amy.
POS/J:DCBuchanan/rk
2/28/19
POS
NA
FE
06798
C:CVHulick:MMF
3/3/49

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
file cepy
CONFIDENTIAL
NA - Mr. Bom Bichop
15 Fobruary 1949
POS - Mr. Sohuler
Tokyo's Despatch No. 727, dated November 12, 1948 on Return to Japan
of Swords C1assified as Objects of Art.
While there might appear to be some legal justification under Swncc 322 fer
the return to Japan of swords classified as objeets of art which were inadvertemtly
handed over to the United States armed forces, we are of the opinion that spegial
offort to recover the thirty swords in question is not required for the following
reasons:
1. As the sword has been traditionally regarded by Japanese of all classes
as the symbol of militarism, it is deemed urwise, even though some of these weapons
may be regarded by the Japanese government as "national treasures" to attempt to
return them to Japan. Such action might well be viewed by a considerable body of
Americans as mnother indication that we were abandoning piece by piecs the polieles
adopted at Potsdam. It would be regarded in a similar light by some of our Allies.
and would also certainly, when it became known, subjoct the United States to pro-
paganda attack by the USSh of serious consequence to our relation with our Allies
as well as to the achievement of our aims in Japan. Finally, such action might well
be interpreted by the Japanese themselves as an indication that the slate hed been
wiped clean.
2. Although the weapons in question may be termed "cultural objects" they are
in a larger sense objects for disseminating xilitary culture. In fact, it is not at
all unlikely that some of the blades were carried, up to the date of surrender, by
high military officers as family heirlooms and symbols of their authority. So fr
as we have been able to ascertain none of the weapons were "wrongfully taken" frem
public, government or Imperial collections. Insofar as the blemish on the reeord
of the United States armed forces is concerned, it should be borne in mind that the
American holders received the swords in good faith and can hardly be accused of
"cultural despoliation".
3. Efforts to returm the swords would be highly impractical and extremely
difficult to carry out. They would require the sorvices of several professionals
in each agency involved (State, Army and Navy). The recipients of the weapons are
widely scattered, many of the personnel having returned to civilian life, so that
it would be an exceedingly time-consuming and expensive undertaking to get in touch
with them. Furthermore, it is not at all unlikely that a goodly number of the swords
in question have changed hands many times, which would also increase the difficulty
of tracing and securing such weapons.
4. The various divisions concerned of the Department of the Army have been
informally approached on the problem. With one accord they indicate that any attempt
to return the swords in question to Japan would be "unnecessary, undesirable and
impractical."
5. There is attached hereto a draft instruction to the United States Political
Advisor for Japen replying in the premises.
Attachment: Draft of instruction to USPOLAD
POS/J:DCBuchanan/rk
2/15/49

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.93)
Confidential
December 28, 1940.
Te: POS - Mtr. Sobuler
ARN JAPANBSE SAORDS CULTURAL ORJBOTS WRONGPULLY TAKN.
WIHIN ANING OF SWANOO 32
1. & legal opinion is requosted as to whother partain
sworde taken from the Japanese by United States Army authori-
ties are "oul tural objocts" whiah have been "wrongfully takem"
vithin the meaning of Sa00 322
2. The Suprome Cominnder 'vis been assured by the Gentral
Lialson and Coordination Offioe of the Japanose Covormment that
the lis ted svords are desim ted as "netional treasures" or
sanotioned as "importent art objocts". Only an expert on the
subject of Japanese art and weapons could paes on the veliaiy
of the clair. However, in Jamuary 1946. after these pertioalar
swords hed been tak em, SCaP by directive pormitted civillan
Japaneso to rettin swords "olassified as art objects". If
swords my be proporly claseified as "art cbjects", they are
by the same token "gultural objects". It would be inoonelstent
for S0, in view of his on order of 7 Jamary 1946, now to
deny thet these swords as a class are "cul tural objeots". of
cours-, the fict may still be disputed, in any individml ase.
by an expert familier with Japanese weapons.
3. The swords were turned in to the United states autheri-
ties in response to a directive to the Japanese Government of
7 October 1945, to surrender all "arme" to tho Allied Forees.
It is believed that under this order the surrender of swords
which were eithor "national treasures" or "importent art ebjeets"
should not have bean required. Like medieval suits of armer.
they are in thie day and age more properly "art objeots" than
"arms". This was apparontly recogmized by the order 7 Jammry
1946. It is concluded thet, ineofar as the swords in question
were "oal tural objects", they were "wrongfully taken" within
the meening of SWAN00 323.
Conrad. Snow
L:L/P: OSnoI
12-26-48

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.89)
lluential
1
December 20, 1948.
Tor PoS - . Sohul or
ARE JAPANNSE PAORDS ULARAL ORJOTS WRONLLT TAD.
VIHNANTNOANOC 
1. A legal opinion is requested as to whether emrtain
swords taken from the Japanese by United Stetes Army amthori-
ties are "oultural objecte" whieh have been "wrongfully takem"
vAthin the meaning of SMA0c 322
2. The Suprome Cornnder ms been asourod by the Central
Linlson and Coortination Office of the Japanose Government that
the listod mvords are desimated us "national treasuree" or
sanetioned as "important art objoote". Only an expert on the
subject of Japanese art and weapone could paes on the aliai
of the clal. Rowevor. in Jamary 1946 after these partialar
swords nd been taken, saar by directive permitted sivilian
Jepaneso to ret in words "alnssifled as art objects". If
swords my be properly clussified as "art objects", they are
iy the same token "oul tural objocts". It would be inooneletent
for S0/. in view of his oun order of 7 Jammry 1946, mow to
demy that these swords as a olass are "oul tural objecte". of
course. the fact we" still be disputed, in any indiviaml aase.
by an epert familiar At Japonose weapons.
3. The swords were turned in to the United Statee authorl-
ties in response to a directive to the Japanese Govermment of
7 Cctober 1945. to surrender all "arme" to the Allied Foroes.
It is belioved thet under this order the surrender of serds
which were either "n: tional trexnsures" or "importent art objests"
should not have been roquired. LAke medleval suite of armer.
thay are in this day and age more properly "art objeots" than
"arms". This whe apparently rocomised by the order ? Jammmsy
1946. It is conaluded thit, ineofar as the swords in question
were "oul tural objects", they vore "wrongfully taken" within
the meening of SWA00 322.
Conrad.Snow
LIL/PIOSNOVIVO
12-20-48

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
Dc/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
CONFIDENTIAL
April 8, 1949
TO:
POS/J--Mr. Buchanan
FROM: L/M—-Mr. Yingling
In view of the positipn taken in my memorandum of
April 6, 1949 that private omed arms taken by a
military occupant from inhabitants of the occupied
country must be restored when peace is made, I do not
feel able to initial the attached draft instruction
to USPOLAD for Japan in view of the position taken in
the second paragraph thereof. Although the swords
may not have been wrongfully taken from the individual
owners, they are being wrongfully kept which seems to
be the point at issue.
PUBLIC AFFAIRS OYERSEAS PROERAM STAFF
Japan-Korean Branch
POS/J
APR 111949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
my
12
L:L/M:RTYfnpling:bd

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
fos
CONFIDENTIAL
April 6, 1949
D'lk
TO
: POS/J - Mr. Buchanan
FROM
: L/M - Mr. Yingling
SUBJECT : Restoration to Japanese Individuals of Swords
of Artistic Value Turned Over to American Forces.
Despatch No. 727 of November 12, 1948 from USPOLAD
for Japan requests the Department's assistance in effect-
FW 894.403
ing the return to Japan of certain swords turned over to
the occupation authorities by Japanese individuals and
apparently distributed to United States military personnel.
The statement is made in your proposed reply to Tokyo that
under international law such objects may be regarded as
legitimate trophies of war.
The swords in question were not taken from the hands
of Japanese soldiers on the battlefield but were surrendered
to occupation authorities long after Japan had surrendered.
1
The swords were the property of the Japanese civiliens who
surrendered them in accordance with an occupation directive.
1
1749
Under the Hague reguletions respecting the laws and
customs of war on land (Hague Convention IV of 1907)
private property cannot be confiscated by a military occu-
pant of enemy territory (Article XLVI) and pillage is
formally forbidden (Article XLVII). While privately owned
war materiel such as arms, ammunition, etc. may be seized
and made use of for military purposes by an invading bel-
ligerent, such property must be restored and compensation
fixed when peace is made (Article LIII). It is therefore
suggested that the referenced statement in your draft reply
FW894.
to Tokyo be omitted.
894.403/11-1248
8
CONFIDENTIAL
my
w
L:L/M:Rryingling:fje
7
n
101226

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.73)
hap Neay peleo hende inteimeein
lon he regroed as le limace
- twhiel, were
trafiues of lduar
reseined h gord foith an I
which wereDmat tweongtuel
taln." fim trblie., ete. Shere
woneg irtrethe, in tin re pent
te

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
17 March 1949
DC/R
E
Honorable Robert Murphy
Acting Director,
Office of German and Austrian Affairs
Department of State
Dear Mr. Murphy:
Mr. Seltzman's 1etter to Mr. Voorhees of 4 March 1949, which
forwarded a copy of despatch #727, dated 12 November 1948, from the
U.S. Political Advisor for Japan, entitled "Return of Swords Class-
ified as Objects of Art" has been received and considered.
894.412
The Department of the Army concurs in the view of the Department
of State that the swords in question were given and received in good
feith and that from the practical standpoint, it would be an exceedingly
expensive and time-consuming task to trace, secure and return such
894.403/3-1749
weapons to Japan. It is doubtful if a majority of the combat soldiers
and marines to whom the swords were issued in 1945 are still in the
armed services. Even if it were possible to trace the swords, the
possessors would be unlikely to give them up because of any considera-
tion for Japanese sensibilities. It is believed that under the cir-
cumstances any attempts to aid the Japanese through court actions
would be ecually futile.
It is recommended that the Political Advisor be informed that
the request of the Civil Information and Education Section is consid-
ered to be impractical.
For Assistant Secretary of the Army:
R.W. Porter J
 A  PR 1
R. W. PORPÉR, JR.
Colonel, General Staff Corps
894.403
POS/I
Executive Officer
MAR 2 2 1949
CS/H
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4
W
24

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.92)
Confidntial
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: 3/17/49
FROM :
tile
SUBJECT:
Replacement of Cultural Objects.
19C01
Attached for your signature are an instruction to General
McCoy (Tab A) and a letter to Assistant Secretary Voorhees (Tab B)
on the subject of replacement of cultural objects lost or destroyed
as a result of Japanese aggression.
The background of this matter is briefly as follows:
1. In mid-1947 the State Department presented to
SANACC, and, with the epprovel of Mr. Saltzman's office, infor-
mally to the FEC, a proposed policy statement providing for a
fairly extensive progrem of replacement of cultural objects lost
or destroyed as a result of Japanese aggression. with similar
Central
JC
objects publicly or privately owned in Japan.
1
1
R
0
2. The Army, strongly supported by SCAP and General
Clay, have persistently opposed both the original paper and
08
successively more restrictive drafts prepared to meet their £
views, arguing that the policy was morally wrong, that it vio-
lated internationel law, thet it would antagonize the Japanese,
that it would be difficult to administer, that it was inconsis-
tent with our policies on the subject in Europe, that it would
give the French en opportunity to reopen the issue in Germany, 
0
and that it would "legalize the Soviet theft of cultural objects
been set forth in a considerable number of letters between
Secretary Mershall ana Secretary Royall and between Mr. Saltzman-
and Mr. Draper (Tab D), but Mr. Boyall has remained inflexible
in his opposition to even the most restricted type of replace-
7
4
ment proran.
6
3. In the FEC, the State Department's informal policy
proposal of mid-l947 was considered too narrow by China, the
Netherlands and the Philippines, which presented an alternative(
proposal for & more liberal replacement program. The UK at
first supported the US proposal but some months ago shifted its
support to the Chinese plan. The Chinese paper is now supported
by the entire Commission membership excent the US and the USSR,
and the USSh has indicated that it suprorts it in princinle
8
desiring only that certain minor amendments be made. Ambassado
n
Koo has called on Mr. Saltzman several times to urge that the
5.
:US announce a position in favor of the Chinese proposal.
0
S
3
Iti
D
3
5
Confiobutial
16
7
52
f
X 100177

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
Confilutial
-2-
It is my personal convinction that it would be most unwise
to compel the Japanese to replace objects lost or destroyed as
a result of the war with objects from their own cultural store.
Two wrongs do not make a right. Also it seems somewhat incong-
ruous at this time to trensfer rare cultural objects from the
safety and security of Japan to strife-torn areas such as China,
Indo-china, Burma, Malaya and the Netherlands Indies. These
fectors, the possible edverse effect of the proposed policy on
our cultural objects policies in Europe, and the fact that all
previous culturel obiects replacement programs were instituted
under a trety (Versailles in 19l9 and the treaties with the
satellites after this war) rather than during the period of
occupation, all lead me to believe that we should instruct
General McCoy to oppose the Chinese pronosal (SC-272/13atTab C)
and state it to be the Us view that the matter should be con-
sidered on its merits if introduced at the time of the peace
confererce.
This position is slso probably the only course that,
practically speakin, remains to us. Continued insistance by
this Department on a replecement program, no matter how narrowly
defined, would reouire that the whole complicated, intrinsically
minor matter be exnlained to the Secretary, that he be convinced
of the program's advisability, and thet he then renew Mr.
Marshall's end r. Seltzman's efforts to win the Depertment of
the Army to this view, in face of tre strong opposition of
General MacArthur and General Clay. Ultimately he would pro-
bably be compelled to carry the matter to higher authority, and
even then might well be forced to retreat to the position in
the attached instruction.
I recommend that you sign the instruction. I also recom-
mend that, if you aporove the above, you ask the representatives
of the friendly FEC nowers to come in individually and explain
to then the action we are soing to take. At the same time you
might ley the groundwork for the revarations decislon we may
soon make.
Attachments:
1.
Instruction to
General McCoy.
2.
Letter to
Mr. Voorhees
3.
Copies of
S0-27?/12 and 13.
4.
File of Letters.
nAr
Coufidntial
FE:NA:RAFearey:aw
agueed leyy M A
tullas ao
772.b

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
CADE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politieal Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, November 12, 1948.
No. 727
UNCLASSIFIED
SubjodtgReturp to Japan of Swords Classified as Objects of Art.
FEB 28 1049
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to invite the Department's attention to a
request by the Civil Informetion and Education Section of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, for the
Department's assistance in effecting the return to Japan of certain
Ree 'd
swords which are classified as art objects and which have presumably
Nov 19
been taken to the United States by United States military personnel.
ACTION
The Civil Information and Education Section states that these
swords were received by American personnel through error and gives
FE
the following account of the occurrence. The Japanese Government
was directed in October, l945, to surrender all arms to the Allied
INFO
forces and in accordanse with this order swords were surrendered by
DCR
individual Japanese to local police stations. In January, 1946,
0
civilian Japanese were permitted by directive to retain swords
OFD
classified as art objects, but in the interim, many swords of artistic
OLI
value were turned over to American personnel, although special regu-
DS
lations had meanwhile been issued for the protection of these wwords.
L
As a result of the United States military practice in Japan of issuing
POS
to military personnel surrendered military swords, these swords were
given to individual Americans and presumably removed to the United
States.
Enclosed is a copy of a list prepared by the Japanese Government
describing certain swords of artistio value and indicating the owners
of these swords, as well as the police station and Allied personnel
to whom the swords were surrendered. The Cigil Information and
Rducation Section states that the enelosed list contains the best
description of the swords and most complete identification of Allied
recipients available in Japan, and suggests that if necessary, the
amsistance of musoum personnel and art dealers be obtained in order
to identify the swords.
Also enelosed
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 727,
November 12, 1948.
-2-
Also enolosed is a copy of a petition dated October 4, 1948,
from the Japanese Government requesting return of the swords listed
in the first enclosure.
The Civil Information and Education Section considers that
efforts should be made toward effecting the return of these swords
under the authority of and in accordance with the procedure deseribed
by SWNCC 322, approved informally by the State-War-Navy Coordinating
Committee on January 28, 1947. SWNU0 322 states that the Department
of State should take steps by means of appropriate publicity and
correspondence to indicate the responsibility of the United States
Government in respect to the return of wrongfully taken cultural
objects and to request the assistance of individuals and organizations
concerned in locating and returning such objects. The Civil Information
and Education Section has given assurance that the swords listed in
the enclosure are considered important art objects in accordanee with
established criteria and states its opinion that these swords were
wrongfully removed from Japan vithin the meaning of SWncc 322 because
they were taken in violation of special regulations and a later General
headquarters order for the protection of these swords and their re-
tention by their Japanese owners.
The Civil Information and Education Section states that the
instant case appears to be the sole blemish on the record of United
States forces in Japan in regard to despoliation of cultural pro-
perties, and thet accordingly efforts provided for by SWNCC 322
should be made to right the record. It is suggested, therefore, that
the moral aspect of this case be emphasized.
Respectfully yours,
W.J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of list by Japanese
Goverrment deseribing
certain artistic swords;
2. Copy of petition dated
October 4, 1948, from
Japanese Government re-
questing return of swords.
350
RBFinn:hh
Original and Ozalid to Department.
UNCLASSIFIED
A
A tror
1
the
.
H

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch Mo. 727 dated Movember 12,
1948 from the United States Political Adviser for
UNCLASSIFIED
Japan, Tokyo, subject: "Return to Japan of Swords
3
Classified as Objects of Art."
COPY
LIST OF N.T. AND I.A.O. SWORDS, SURRENDERED TO THE OCCUPATION FORCES AND MOT RETURNED
(Prepared by the Education Ministry)
Mote: I.A.O. - Important Art Object; N.T. - National Treasure. Both terms are defined by Japanese law.
Police stations that handled
Names and addresses
Mames of Allied
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Forces
Kiyoharu Ishikawa (930
Presented to the 637th
Katana, with inscription "Made by Tadayoshi,
Tsuchiura Police Station.
Tsuchiurashi, Ibaragi-ken)Anti-tank Regiment.
inhabitant of Hizen Province' (I.A.0.)
Ibaragiken, September 29, 1945
8 October 1945 (Cemmamder
Lt. Col. Wathanial Word)
Katana, having no inscription, attributed
to Aoe school (I.A.O.)
Tsuchiura Police Station,
Kiyoharu Ishikawa (930
Presented to the 37th
Ibaragiken, September 29. 1945 Tsuchiurashi, Ibaragi-ken) Anti-tank Regimemt,
8 October 1945 (Commander
Lt. Col. Nathamiel Werd)
Tachi, with inscription 'Narimune' (I.A.O.)
Tsuchiura Police Station,
Xiyoharu Ishikawa (930
Presented to the 37th
Ibaragiken, September 29, 1945 Tsuchiurashi, Ibaragi-ken) Anti-tank Regimemt,
8 October 1945 (Gemmamder
Lt. Col. Nathamiel Word)
Tachi, with inscription 'Masahiro. in-
Tsuchiura Police Station,
Shigeo Asano (1,161
habitant of Sagam1 Province (I.A.0.)
Iberagi-ken, October 1, 1945
Tsuchiura-shi, Ibaragi-ken) Preseated to the 637th
Anti-tank Regiment,
8 October 1 (0ommmder
Lt. Col. Nathaniel Werd)
Tachi, with inscription 'Yukuhira of Bingo
Takasaki Police Station,
Shozaburo Inoue (61
Presented to the 637th
Province' (I.A.O.)
Gumma-ken, January 15. 1946
Renjaku-cho, Takasaki-shi, Anti-tank Reginant, S
Gumma-ken)
October 145 (Commander
Lt. Gol. Wathamiel Werd)
UNCLASSIPIED
Katana,

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. l to Tokyo's Despatch
4
Mo. 727, November 12, 1948
-2-
Police stations that handled
Hames and addresses
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Names of Allied Forces
Katana, having no inscription, attributed
Takasaki Police Station,
Shozaburo Inoue (61
Presented to the 7th
to Mihara-Masale (I.A.O.)
Gumma-ken. Janmary 15. 1946
Renjaku-cho, Takasaki- Army Military Govern-
shi. Gumma-ken)
ment, 17 April 1946.
Katana, having no inscription. Known as
Mejiro Police Station,
Iemasa Tokugawa (1,064 Presented to the 7th
the 'Honjo-Masamune' (N.T.)
Tokyo, December, 1946.
Yoyogi-Oyama-machi,
Cavalry Regiment through
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo)
Mejiro Police Station.
18 Janmary 1946. Re-
sponsible person, Serg.
Colly D. Beimo.
Tachi, with inscription "Nagamiteu,
Mejiro Police Station.
Iemasa Tokugawa (1,064 Presented to the 7th
inhabitant of Osafune, Bizen Province'
Tokyo, December, 1946
Yoyogi-Oyama-machi,
Cavalry Regiment through
(I.A.O.)
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo)
Mejiro Police Station.
18 Jamary. 1946. Re-
sponsible person, Serg.
Colly D. Beimo)
Tachi. with inscription 'Rai-Kunitoshi'
Mejiro Police Station,
Iemasa Tokngawa (1.064
Presented to the 7th
(I.A.O.)
Tokyo. December, 1946
Yoyogi-Oyama-machi.
Cavalry Regiment through
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo)
Mejiro Police Station,
18 Jamary 1946. Re-
sponsible person, Serg.
Colly D. Beimo.
Tanto, with inscription 'Akihiro,
Ojiya Police Station,
Saizaburo Nishiwaki
Presented to the 26th
inhabitant of Sagami Province' (I.A.O.)
Ojiya, Kita-Uommma-gun,
(Ojiya-machi, Kita-
Company M.P.. 2md Ba..
Niigata-ken, October 5. 1945
nonuma-gun, Niigata-ken) the 303rd Regimemt,
97th Division stationed
in Takana City. 29 Novem-
ber, 1945. (Deputy Chief
HP lst Lt. Dafeld Dengmam)
UNCLASSIFIED
Kodachi,

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
-3-
5
No. 727, November 12, 1948
Police Stations that handled Mames and addresses
Items
the awords and dates
of theowners
Hames of Allied Forces
Kodachi, with inscription 'Norifusa' (I.A.O.) Kofu Police Station,
Yoshihiko Uchida
Presented with other
Yamanashi-ken, May, 1946
(Sakura-machi, Iofu-
swords through Kofu
sh1)
Police Station to 97th
Field Artilar Bn..
May 1946.
Tachi, with inscription 'Masatsune',
Kumano-hayatama
Presented with three
Braid-wrapped hilt (N.T.)
Jinja (Shingu-machi.
other swords to lst
Shingu-shi, Wakayama-
Lt. Word H. Marlis,
ken)
390th Infantry Regiment,
98th Division, 17
January 1946.
Tachi, with inscription 'Rai-Kuimitsu'
Saga Police Station,
Matsubara-jinja
Presented to an Allied
(N.T.)
Sage City, October 13, 1945
(Natsubara-machi,
Armed Force B, October,
Saga-shi, Saga-ken)
1945 (Commarider Lt. Col.
Antonio)
Tento, with inscription (Kunihiro' (N.T.)
Saga Police Station,
Matsubara-jinja,
Presented to an Allied
Saga City, October 13, 1945
(Matsubara-machi,
Armed Force B, October
Saga-shi, Saga-ken)
1945 (Commarider Lt. Col.
Antonio).
Tachi. with inscription Tomomura' (I.A.0.)
Oita Police Station,
(Hachiman, Hachiman-
Delivered to a certain
Oita City, Jamary 19. 1946
mra, Oita-gun, Oita-
occupation force stationed
ken)
in the locality, December,
1946. (The name of the
regiment is unknowa, but
probably 32nd Field
Artilery Regiment, judging
from the mark of red arrew).
UNCLASSIPIED
Katana,

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
-4
No. 727, November 12, 1948
Police statione that handled
Names and addresses
Items
the swords and dates
of theowners
Names of Allied Forces
Katena, with inscription 'Humbly made by
Shishuku Police Station,
Miyasaka-jinja
Presented to 3rd Bn..
Shume-no-kami Ippei Yasushiro' (N.T.)
Kagoshima-ken, December 6, 1945
8th Marine Corp., 24
February 1946 (Commander
Lt. Col. Howel)
Katana, with inscription 'Akihiro, in-
Kokubu Police Station,
Kagoshima-jingu
Presented to 3rd Bn.,
habitant of Sagami Province' and the
Kagoshima-ken, December 31, 1945 (Haito-macht)
Sth Marine Corp, 2 Jamary.
date of 3rd year of Meitoku Era (N.T.)
1946 (Commander, Lt. Col.
Heyword).
Katana, no inscription, but is considered Kokubu Police Station,
Kagoshima-jingu
Presented to 3rd Bn..
to be the work of Norishige (N.T.)
Kagoshima-ken, December 31, 1945 (Haito-mach1)
8th Marine Corp. 4 February,
1946 (Commander, Lt. Col.
Heyword).
Tachi, with inscription 'Kunimmne' (N.T.) Kagoshima Police Station,
Terukuni-jinja
Presented to 3rd Bn.,
January 30, 1946
(Xamashita-cho
Sth Marine Corp. 4 Februry
Kagoshime-shi)
1946 (Commander, Lt. Col.
Howel).
Tachi, with ring-shaped hilt-top (N.T.)
Aiura Police Station,
Nagasaki-ken, April 28, 1946.
Kamishima-jinja
Presented to 2nd Bn.,
(Konega-machi,
10th Regiment, Marine
Kitamatsura-gun,
Corp. 8 Hay 1946 (1st Lt.
Nagasaki-ken)
J.G. Gasser)
Tachi, with inecription 'Yasuie of Hoki
Province' (I.A.0.)
Noshiro Police Station,
Taro Anno (7 Yorozu-
Col. Hoscar, 457 Airborne
Akita-ken, October 10, 1945
cho. Hoshiro-shi.
stationed at Akita. De-
Akita-ken)
livered to Capt. Moran.
Ch. Public Safety Sestion,
Military Government Team.
Tachi,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
Mo. 727, Movember 12. 1948
-5-
Police Stations tht handled
Names and addresses
Items
the swords and dates
of the owmers
Hames of Allied Korces
Tachi, with inscription 'Kuniyuki' Kuamoto-kita Police Station,
Takehiko Motada
Presented to the Occupation
(N.T.)
Kuamoto City, December 10,
Kuamoto-shi, Oe-machi)
Army through the Police
1945
Station, December 21 and 22,
1945. Commander of the
Regiment Col. McHarhmd Ch.
Kumamoto Military Governmet
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Tachi, with inscription 'Kanemitsu Yonezawa Police Station,
Boriaki Uesugi
Presented to the Occupation
of Osafune, Bizen Province.
October 5, 1945
(Minamihoribata-machi,
Army through the Police
Angust, 2nd year of Embun Era'
Yonesawa-ehi)
Station, December 21 and 22,
1945. Commander of the
Regiment. Col. McHarland Ch.
Kumamoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Tachi, with inscription 'Nagamitsu' Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki Uesugi
Presented to the Occupation
(I.A.O.)
October 9, 1945
(Minamihoribata-machi,
Army through the Police
Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 21 and 22,
1945. Commander of the
Regiment Col. McHarland Ch.
Kumamoto Military Goverameat
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Maginata. No inscription, but is
Yonezawa Police Station.
Noriaki Uesugi
Presented to the Occupation
considered to be the work of
October 5. 1945
(Hinamihoribata-machi,
Army through the Poliee
Norifusa. Mounted.
Yonesawa-shi)
Station, December 2land 22.
1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. McHarland Ch.
Kuamoto Nilitary Geverkment
Team. Lt. Col. Link; m.
Officer, Major Sebel.
UNCLASSIFIED
Yari,

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
Bo.727, November 12. 1948
Police Stations that handled Mames and addresses
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Hames of Allied Forces
Yari, with inscription 'Made by Umetada, Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki Uesng1
Presented to the Occupation
Yamashiro Province. December, 2nd year October 5. 1945
(Minamihoribata-machi, Army through the Police
of Bunroku Era' (I.A.O.)
Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 21 and
22, 1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. NcHarlnd Ch.
Kuamoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Tachi, with inscription 'Hasebe-Kuni-
Yonezawa Police Station,
Noriaki Uesugi
Presented to the Occupation
obu'. Mounted as Uchigatana (I.A.0.)
October 5, 1945
(Minamihoribata-machi, Army through the Police
Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 21 and
22, 1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. McHarland Ch.
Kuamoto Military Government
Team. Lt. Col. Link; Adm.
Officer, Najor Sobel.
Maginata. No inscription. Attributed
Yonesawa Police Station,
Noriaki Uesugi
Presented to the Occupation
to Mitsutada. Mounted. (I.A.O.)
October 5. 1945
(Minamihoribata-
Army through the Police
machi, Yonezawa-shi)
Station, December 21 and 22.
1945. Commander of the
Regiment, Col. McHarland
Ch. Kuamoto Nilitary Gevera-
ment Team. Lt. Col. Link;
Adm. Officer. Major Sobel.
Haginata,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
-7-
No. 727, November 12, 1948
Police Stations that handled
Names and addresses
Items
the swords and dates
of the owners
Names of Allied Forces
Naginata. No inscription. Attributed to Yonezawa Police Station.
Noriaki Nesugi
Presented to the
Sukemura. Mounted. (I.A.O.)
October 5, 1945
(Minamihoribata-machi,
Occupation Army thregigh
Yonezawa-shi)
the Police Station,
December 21 and 22, 1945.
Commander of the Regiment.
Col. McHarland. Ch.
Kuamoto Nilitary Govermment
Team. Lt. Col. Limk;
Adm. Officer, Major Sobel.
Tachi, with inscription 'Motoshige' and
Minami Police Station,
Shinto Shimada
Presented to the
the date 'September. 2nd year of Kagen
Kumamoto-shi, April 21,
(Shimazaki-cho,
Occupation Force through
Era' (I.A.O.)
1946.
Kuamoto-shi,
the Police Station, 22
Kuamoto-ken).
April, 1946. Reg. Com.
Col. McHarland. Ch.
Military Government Team,
Lt. Col. Link. Adm.
Officer, Major Sobel.
Note:
Above exact reproduction of original in spelling. (H)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
11
Enolosure No. 2 to Despateh No. 727
UNCLASSIFIED
dated Nowember 12, 1948 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, subject: "Return to Japan
of Swords Classified as Objects of Art."
COPY
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
CENTRAL LIAISON AND COORDINATION OFFICE
TO
: General Headquarters of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
FROM
: Central mison and Coordination Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT : Request for Restitution of Swords Designated as Netional
Treasure or Sanctioned as Important Art Object.
C.L.C.O. No. 3453 (2PA)
4 October 1948
1. Reference:
a. Paragraph XI, of General Order No. 1 (Directive No. 1).
b. SCAP Memorandum AG 388.3 (23 Oct 45) CIS, subject: "Instruc-
tions concerning the Surrender of Arms by the Civilian
Population of Japan."
c. SCAP Memorandum AG O00.4 (12 Nov 45) CIE, subject: "Policies
and Procedures relating to the Protection of Arts, Monuments,
and Cultural and Religious Sites and Installations."
d. SCAP Memorandum AG 386.3 (10 Jan 46) CIS, subject: "Retention
of Swords Classified as Objects of Art in Civilian Hands."
2. The Ministry of Education reports as follows:
In accordance with Paragraph XI of the reference General Order
No, 1, the arms in the possession of the civilian population were
necessitated to be delivered to the Allied Forces. Under the regu-
lations of the Home Ministry, the swords of aesthetic value were per-
mitted for the time being to be retained in civilian hands in readiness
for delivery, being registered at the police stations. However, some
of the swords designated as national treasures or sanctioned as im-
portant art objects as shown in the attached list, were erroneously
delivered to the Allied units in the field through poliee stations
and have not yet been restituted to the ownems! The situation has
caused not a little anxiety to the owners, besides being a matter for
regret in view of the preservation of Japanese old art objects.
. Under the above circumstances the Central Liaison and Coordination
Office requests the General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers be good enough to ascertain the present whereabouts of
these swords and to make possible the restoration of these objeots to
the proper owners.
FOR THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL:
(K. Yoshida)
Chief of Liaison Section,
Central Liaison and Coordination Office
Enclosure:
List of Swords as stated above.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
FEC-RESTRICTED
SC-272/12
SC-272/12
11 January 1949
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
STEERING COMMITTEE
REPLACEMENT CF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS
As Amended 11 January 1940
(References:
SC-272/10, 272 sorics)
Note by the Secrotory Genoral
1. The cnclosurc, n version of SC-272/10, a proposed
policy dccision on the replacoment of lost cultural objocts
incorporating amendments edopted by the Stcering Committee at
its 130th meeting, 11 Jonuary 1949, is circulated herewith
for the ccnsideration of tho STEERING COMMITTEE.
2. The record of reservations which hes been carried
on this prcposal now stands as follows:
1... rd
Austr lin: Rescrvation on the paper as a whole
Cirnvot on rubrequently removed
Canada
:Roservation on paragraph 3
U.S.S.R. : Reservation on the poper ns a whole
(notc proposed mondinents 1n sc-272/13)()
U. S.
: Resorvation on the paper as a whole
FIE
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretary General

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.96)
FEC-RESTRICTED
ENCLOSURE
REPLACEMENT OF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS
As Amended 11 January 1949
1. This policy is supplomentary to and not in derogation
of policy docisions relating to restitution of lootcd property.
2. For the purpose of this policy, cultural objects are
defined so as to include all movable objects of artistic, his-
torical, religious, or educational chammctcr, including collec-
tions of books, which are irrepleceable through normal channels
of production and commerce.
3. The Jopanese Government should be required to replace
culturel objects:
2. which were publicly owned; or
b. which, if privately owned, had been accessible to
the publie, or were typical of the evolution of the nation-
al culture of the clcimant country; and
Q. whieh have been removed from Allicd countries by
the Jepanese or their agents but have not boen found with-
in a reasonable period, or which have been destroyed by
the Jupanesc or their agents or as a result of military
action during periods of Japanest  ilitary segression
cgainst Allied torritorles
in  ccordanee with the following provisions.
4. Allied countries attccked or cccupied by the Japanese
which cloim replacement should show, in roasonablo details,
amounts, kinds and quality of cultural objeets lost.
5.
In cases of dcubt cencerning the adequney of evidence
providcd in support of a el im, the presumption should be in
favor of the claimant country.
6. claime rer re placoment of specific cultural objects,
when approved, cheuld be satisficd by the Japanese Gevernment
by prevaaing cultural cbjects of epproxim tely cauavelent charac-
ter nd cultural value obtainable in Japen.
7. Ruplecement in approximate equivalents as indicated in
parayraph 6 above should not be made frem:
Culturel itoms designated by the Japanese Govern-
mont es National Trecsures (Kokuho) prior to lesl regard-
less of origin or ownership, or designe ted es Japanese
Nataional Treasures (Kokuho) after 1e?l, if they are of
Jrpanose origin or were owned by Japenose public institu-
tions or private individuals prior to 1894.
b. Enrly collcctions signiricant for thoir unity and
comploteness, such as the Nara Cemplox of the Horiuji,
Yaku hi ji, Tokudaiji, Todai ji, Kofukuji, Shin-Yekushi ji
temples and the Shosoin and other similer tomple complexes,
in so far as replacement con be made from other sources.
c. Items required by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to accomplish the objcctives of the occupation
perticularly with respect to the program of democratization
and cducstion of the Jopanese people.
- 1 -
SC-272/12 - END.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
FEC-RESTRICTED
SC-272/13
SC-272/13
11 January 1949
FAP EASTERN COMMISSION
STEERING COMMITTEE
REPLACEMENT CF LOST CULTURAL OBJECTS
Proposed Soviet Amendments
(heference:
SC-272/12)
Note by the Secretary General
At the 13Cth meeting of the Steering Committee, 1l January
1943, the Soviet nember submitted the following amendments to the
propesed pclicy cn Replacement of Lost Cultural Cbjects (Sc-272/12):
a. Delete paragraph 3 in its entirety and substitute;
"3. The Japanese Government should replace
cultural cbjects which were in national and
publie use.
E. Lelete paragraph 7 2.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretary General
SC-272/13

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.74)
GASRTORMETAS.
March
Deer Kr. Vocrbeest
An you mey kwow, shere bave pesn sevores wome
betwean oar teo Dapertmonts ca the zukjess ef sapled
eulturel objects lees or degtrayed es a mosals af Sa
sion. I heve referanos pertiealerly so a letser at
reply of September l0j a latter of the same date 
Seeretery Soltmsen to Gemaval Aberle; Sooretary Eapaltto
of October ss to Secvetary Merahalls e Jattar at Dee
of Decaaber 8.
12248
This lester is to adviss you shat the Daperimont as Monto
has Gesided to inotruct the Ualted states Bapmesmatetlve ma sae
Yer Nestoro Comai astos to oppane &)-efa/la, Replmsemest et
Lost Culsural Cojeote, or any other poliey propoesl ea Shks
this retter is not cme whish san properly be deelt wish dwyswe see
cooupetion but should be sonsidered en its merits if Amtmeduped
at tie time of ths peaes conference. à copy of thie tantpaaplany
whict is is  sswsnd, in light of she viems eapreesad by sesmetamy
Royell in Lis lattere of July 28 mnd Oetober 2. l94s, wilfte
acceptable to the Depertment of the Army, and whieh mill ao feammme
0
in a ron cays. is enelosed.
to
Seqreof
wton utterworth
 Fo P  
.
Encloscse:
etior
to fr
Phe o b
V
DOETTUDNTLAL

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.77)
    , VA  G
97801: S0-290 12. "Hapls0ment of Loet celtand coge
Tou are suthoriñod to intorm the Ooanimaiem Sbae it le The
View of the United Ststee Govezcwant Shet he sattek af papakees
esgresoion ie ono wkiek, in soatrmdlettsetion to sho messst
of culturel abjeese, ponnot proparly be Maalt wieh daeime t
nooupation. It is the poaition of the Umibad Samtee thas
as kas been the dase in Euroye, bo comatdored ea Khoir maease sz
instrroted to opyose 0-z7z/1s, "Replemsment of Lost Cmisepel
Objecta", er any other policy propossl on this subjeet whiek tm se
any be plaosd bofore ths Coamiamdans
Tou msy at your dlecretien advise the Gomsiesioe shat tho
heritego at Japon's hanéo, ond tnet tho above pooitlom amtmeo bme
o't f Laok of syarothy for thase matioms lo their loss bet only
fros hs cooviction thet proposals rxe paveiel Podreme ss the laps
throagh meplecomont Trom Jepen'a eultuval stors cosmes propexly
te vesed upon la cdvanss wt the pesee eonfereness
/s/ W. malton Buséaxworth
: lrootor for Yur eatom Afxedaxs

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.96)
DUR
DIVISION OF
NORTHEASI ASIAN AFT
7
1943
1. Apr1l 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Hon. W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
I acknowlodge with thenks on behalf of Mr. Voorhees
your letter of March 29th advising us of the instructions
which the Department of State has decided to issue to the
United States Representative on the Far Eastern Commission
in reepect to Sc-272/12.
The Department of the Army notes with definite satis-
faction the position which the Department of State is
taking on this matter.
Very sincerely yours,
Robert R. West
Deputy to
Assistant Secretary of the Army

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.82)
WUMODANNN YOR UHITED STATES MBGED, PAR EASTARG GGNGESTOR
SUBJE0T: M0-272 18, "2eplscament ef Lost Gulturel 0sjootee.
Tou aro authorised to iatam tho Goswmiesien thas As is She
mont of culturel objeats lost or destxoyed as a raanlt of Jep
vi vulsural cscts, crnot prepeely be deelt wiaa dapime ahe
oseupation. It is ths poeitien of the Unised Stetas hime
proposals for a pregrwn of ropleeement of cultural objeees mkäntà.
as koo bean the case in krvpe, be ecssidereé as sheis moviss is
introdnosd et the tiwe of the peaso conference. You swo muoondingly
00
instructed to oppose s0-sf2/1a, "Kaplacument of Lost Gulsuval
Objeete", or any other poliey proposal os this subjeat whiek Se ow
mey be plesed befers the Cemission.
You way at your diseration mdviso the Comsigaion thmt ahe
United States Goverument appreeletes She profound asnae ef isjavy
of thoae of its Allies whiek maffered loosiss of thoir sulsural
borisage at Japea'e ksade, and shat ths above powitien asiews mot
out of leek of symapetky fer these metions Ln their loge but wnly
from she cenvietiom that propoeals for partial reérese ef Phe Less
ahroagh veplacement from Japen's cultural store cammst peoparly
2
be peteu upen in savenee of the peeee scnferense.
6
lboa Buttorwooth
Direetor for ar Resterm Affeire

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.95)
APR 211949
CONFIDENTIAL
68
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State acknowledges receipt of despatch
894.403/4-2149
No. 727 dated Movember 12, 1948, from the Office of the Political
Adviser, entitled "Return to Japan of Swords Classified as
Objects of Art", which invited the Department's attention to a
request by the Civil Infermation and Education Seesion of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, for the
Department's assistanse in effeeting the return to Japan of
cartain swords whi ch are classified as art objects and which have
presumably been taken to the United States by United States
military personnel.
ence magecuesek
appear to have bean racaived in good faith. Inasmuch as the
Immsmekeoeaxkim original recipients of the swords are now
widely seattered, some of them having left the arsed services,
it is not unlikely that many of the weapons have subsequently
changed hands. From the practical standpoint it is obviens that
to trace, secure and return to Japan such weapons would be an
exceedingly expensive and time-consuming task.
The Department has given careful consideration to all
aspects of this matter and has reached the conclusion, in which
the Department of the Aray conours, that it is neither expediemt
nor practical to attempt to effeot the return of these swords.
894.403/4.21
CS/H
gou
894.403/11-1248
Eax
APR 15 1949 P.M
POS/J:DdSdchanan/rk 3/29/L9 POS
4/1/49
see previous
draft attached previous
draft
4/12/49

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
Office, Assistant Secretary
Washington, D.C.
C
0
P
17 March 1949
Y
Honorable Robert Murphy
Acting Director,
Office f German and Austrian Affairs
Department of State
Dear Mr. Murphy:
Mr. Saltzman's letter to Mr. Voorhees of 4 March 1949,
which forwarded a copy of despatch #727, dated 12 November 1948,
from the U.S. Political Advisor for Japan, entitled "Return of
Swords Classified as Objects of Art" has been received and
considered.
The Department of the Army concurs in the view of the Depart-
ment f State that the swords in question were given and received
in good faith and that from the practical standpoint, it would be
an exceedingly expensive and time-consuming task to trace, secure
and return such weapons to Japan. It is doubtful if a majority
of the combat soldiers and marines to whom the swords were issued
in 1945 are still in the armed services. Even if it were possible
to trace the swords, the possessors would be unlikely to give them
up because of any consideration for Japanese sensibilities. It
is believed that under the circumstances any attempt s to aid the
Japanese through court actions would be equally futile.
It is recommended that the Political Advisor be informed that
the requast of the Civil Information and Education Section is
considered to be impractical.
For Assistant Secretary of the Army:
/s/t/ R. W. Porter, Jr.
Colonel, General Staff Corps
Executive Officer

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
C
0
P
Y
March 4, 1949
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There is enclosed a copy of despatch No. 727, dated
November 12, 1948, from the Office of the Acting United States
Political Adviser for Japan, entitled "Return of Swords Classified
as Objects of Art," which invited the Department's attention to a
request by the Civil Information and Education Section of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, for the
Department's assistance in effecting the return to Japan of certain
swords which are classifid as art objects and which have presumably
been taken to the United States by United States military personnel.
You will note the assertion of the Civil Information and Education
Section that the swords in question "were taken in violation of
special regulations and a later General Headquarters order for the
protection of these swords and their ratention by their Japanese
owners."
The Department is inclined to the view that the swords in
question were given and received in good faith and that from the
practical standpoint, it would be an exceedingly expensive and
time-consuming task to trace, secure and return such weapons to
Japan.
Before replying to the Acting Political Adviser for Japan
the Department would appreciate having your views as soon as
possible.
Sinceroly yours,
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Copy of despatch No. 727 from
Tokyo, dated November 12, 1948
The Honorable
Tracy S. Voorhees,
Assistant Secretary of the Army.
POS/J:DCBuchanan/rk.
2/28/49
POS
NA
FE
0
O:CVHulick:MMF 3/3/49

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.73)
Acma
àA true caux
 ply refayto
M0DCH FOR THE D. . 302
EAR EAAN GMX
With potevance to the query of übs Gnimsee Ke
1949 regerding she statansnt of the tnitad stek
authoxised to sake she Pallowine stetenpmés
"In pospoese to the staleseat by the ahtmsñs
oc April /2á€1949, the Chited Ssates doveé 4
view subaisted on April l2 thet the satéer of 
"pannet properly be éealt wiak durins the gcodsattene
preptice that cultural objoéta sosupy a apocial statéd.
that Jayeoase caltozal objeeka eammot legmsly be age
pwiateà ae war boosy or as roperasicne. Io io Salk4
in visw of the body of sovld spinion whesh hes lass
oultural objeots in a elaes apers, the qmeevion ef zaplanve
ment of loat culsoral objeets wieh taaler Phgokese cbjeate
vistovtmvs nosere éusing the cesupstion pomiod. All ef tbe
bimtorio preeséonto fop seek replseesent savo vown prowlsos
in peece trettleme
"It io vrtber bolaeved shat e pragsom of fowelble
removal o7 Tapanoae art frenevees Poe xoplneesens Japoas3y
15 11 should be ulsimotely déeiése apoe, voul6 evmee lees
bisternees and renevment svons ske Fopenees ond lesy
erislcies by workd opimien, if it were ssrvoc is conmeettes
wish e pesvc sattlsmen9, then if ie were arbisvavily lspoevd
5
daring thw military comupatios.
FE:REPeCor
Davootor Eor Var Saetova Affmixe
NA:RFourey
mmine 
(5/9/49)

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGONTELEGRAM
Department of State
Charge Department
Charge to
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION
MAY.12 1949
FOR DC/T USB
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo,
200
Info: Army Chief of Staff.
For Office Acting Political Adviser.
Following Chicago Daily News story, Tokyo dateline, May 1l:
"The case of the 30 precious Japanese swords, which disappeared
into GI duffel bags as souvenirs, has finally been closed.
After more than three years and a small mountain of paper work
the American State Department has ruled that it isn't praotical to
attempt to return the swords to their rightful owners.
894.403/5~1249
The Japanese government had requested the return of the swords
because they were "national treasures" and their removal from the
country was contrary to international law.
Some of the swords in question are more than 500 years old.
Prized only as souvenirs in America, in Japan they. have the value
of rare old paintings."
Department's instruction this matter dated April 21, classified
confidential and should not have been disclosed by either U. S. or
Jap officials. Department desires immediate investigation source
leak prelude possible corrective statement.
Olcheon
(R1)
ar
ACHESON
894.40
DISTRIBUTION
(OFFICES ONLY)
DESIRED
EK
SS
POS/J:Ekroll:dfe
5/12/49
POS
NA
0
muu
H
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION
Corrections made on this original MUST be made on all
copies before delivery to Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.93)
AIRGRAM
17-19
DEPARTHENT
2
Dc
750
CONF IDTI JUN 7 10 07 AM 49
F1: (1), T
(Foc epartment Use Only)
Date of
ailing
Lay 20, 1949
Rec'd
June 6, 1349 12:43 p.m
3
Seccetury of tate,
A
∴CTION POS
ushirgton.
INFO
DC/R
3/s
-130, hay 27, 1949.
G
L
Referenee is mace to nepartment's conficcntial telegren no.
PE
200, N 12, 1949, 7 p.m., tran mitting press ropcat uulicizing
CON
Departmentº3 ins truction r.0. 68, April 21, 194), regardin; Japa-
MD
nese swords taken to United states us souvenirs.
P
Department's reguest for investigation las been riferced to
Civil Iniormation and Iducation Bection, Gll, Jt, which to date
has made nc reply.
It is known that Keyos BiECH, Chicago Deily News Tokyo corre-
spondent, is a close friend of several CIE officials concerned
with this matter and that one of these officials (C. F. Gat LAGhth,
fine crts adviser) liyes on part-time tasis with sech. Leak of
Depertment's instructicn no. 68 could have come fron tuis sourcu.
ClE is also known to take open view regardin s ess preroga-
tives and may feel in this instance that leak to press would sorve
double purpose of showing concerned Jupunese 3CAl 's interest in
their behalf and encouraging present merican fiolders of swords to
return them to Japan. It is known thut several Ci officials foel
strongly tiat at least token effort should oc made to obtain return
of these netional art objccts.
FILI
Department will be inforaed in premiseo when reply from
received or when other iniormation available.
1949
HUSTON
236/631
RFinn:cgf
PERMANENT RECORD COPY,This eopy woet be reterned to DC/R semtral es with notatlen of
CONFIUENTIAL (For Departnont Use Only)

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
15
CONFIDENTIAL
A
Aotion: POS
Control 4194
Info:
ss
Ite nturtheros June 10, 1949
P
J04 10 4 17 PH 49
U   RO.
FE
OLI
FROM
: Tokyo
CIA
141949
ARMY
TO
: Secretary of State
CON
DEPARTMENT OE STATE
DCR
NO
: 201, June 9
FROM SCAP TOKYO TO STATE DEPARTMENT FOR ACTION INFO
CSUSA (CITE CX 50651).
Reference State serial 200, May 12 concerning Japanese
swords.
Investigation has failed to disclose source of any leak
of information contained in Department's instruction
894.403/6-949
of April 21. Civil information education section in
checknote 7 June also suggests that no correotive state-
ment be made since article quoted has had no apparent
rapercussions in Japan.
HUSTON
SW:KC
JUN 1 6 1949
FILED
H
CONFIDENTIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16-69918-1

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.57)
selvas OK

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
JHA
SEP
ne.hew
JOSEPH C.GREW
AlD
MANCHESTER
MASSACHUSETTS
Auguat 25, 1949
Dear Walt:
I don't happen to know who is at present holding
the Japan desk but shall be obliged if you will kindly
refer this letter to him if he is the right officer to
consult.
I have been asked to accept the chairmanship of
a committee set up for the purpose of bringing over to
the United States a loan exhibit of Sesshus and other
ancient Japanese paintings which would be shown in various
cities here. Dr. Edgell, Direotor of the Boston Museum of
Fine Arts, writes me that he is very much intrigued about
this proposed exhibit and says that if the paintings should
include Prince Mori's roll, that alone would make the
894.403/8-2549
exhibit epochal. The present members of the committee
which I believe is being expanded are given on the enclosed
paper. All I wish to know is whether the Department sees
any objection to our endeavoring to arrange such an exhibit
in the United States and also whether it sees any objeotion
to my taking the chairmanship. There are sometimes niggers-
in-the-woodpile in these matters which are not obvious to
those outside the government and it would be very helpful to
me to be forewarned, off the record if necessary, of any
considerations or obstacles whioh might make it unwise for
me to associate myself with this project.
With many thanks in advance,
Sincerely yours,
Honorable W. Walton Butterworth
Assistant Seoretary of State
CS/H
Washington, D. C.
894.403
Enclosure: List members of Committee for proposed Japanese
Art Exhibit.
8-2549

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.85)
SEP91940
Lear Joe:
I ve rooelved your letter of Anmst S3, lea9 Sn mhack
you requeat our viewo as so ths advisability of exmengls
an oshibis of Japanece srt in the Unised Stctes aad of
asmuming the ahaimmnahip ef sach an underbaking.
I peresivo so objectiom to eithov proposal. he yoa
be mace to initlate and rovive oontmets with Japan, sulkmeal
or othervlee, thet would heve the efrous of bromkiag Goam
the barriers of suepicion and bitterpess shat were seoafed
during the war. It in my fesling thet the arrengespent et
eueh en art exhibit in tais gountry under your leaderobip
could not but holy to acomplish this ane.
Sineerely yours.
403/8-2549
. Smlton Buttermosth
She Homerable
Joneph C.Gro.
10
S
