894.628 Animal Husbandry., Japan, Fisheries. Sponges. Sponge Fisheries., March 1, 1945 - October 17, 1945 (File 1494)
ID: 894.628-1494   Pages: 258   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.628-animal-husbandry-japan-10
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICI
MAR 21 1946
No. 166
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIC
RESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Vladivostok, U.S.S.R.
December 1, 1945
fie
SUBJECT: Organization of Kurile State Fishing Trust.
INTERNATIONAL RESOURBES DIVISION
The Honorable
éRvs
The Secretary of State,
APR 1.6 1946
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose, as of possible interest
for the indication it offers of Soviet intentions in re-
spect to the economy of the Kurile Islands, a copy (in
English translation) of an advertisement appearing in the
newspaper KRASNOE ZNAMYA (RED BANNER), Vladivostok of
894.628/3-145
November 28, 1945 calling for workers for the combines of
the Kurile State Fishing Trust.
Respectfully yours
O. Edmund Clubb.
American Consul General
Enclosure: al1
1. Translation of advertisement in KRASNOE ZNAMYA
(RED BANNER), Vladivostok, November 28, 1945.
894.628/3-145
PECORS RAHOH
946 MA 1 
VISION OF JAPANESF 
ECOROMIC
DEPARTMENT
CS/VJ
APR 11946
APR!
EC:mrk
Qriginal and ozalid copy to the Department.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
(TRANSLATION)
Advertisement in KRASNOE ZNAMYA (RED BANNER), Vladivostok,
November 28, 1945.
TRANSLATED: November 30, 1945.
TRANSLATOR: EC
KURILE GOSRYBTREST*
is effecting the recruitment and hiring of workers and
employees of all specialities for permanent and seasonal
work in the fishing combines of the trust on the Kurile
Islands.
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT:
1. Wages from 500 to 1,300 rubles monthly depending
upon the qualifications of the worker. In addition there
are premiums for the catch and working of fish.
2. Board in accordance with the rations of the North
will be provided gratis to all workers until the organiza-
tion of the trade network.
3. Upon hiring, there is given to seasonal workers
a subvention, and a monthly allowance, diurnal from the
day of formulation of the pass orders.
4. Permanent workers are provided with the privi-
leges of the Far North:
a. a subvention is given in the form of a two-
months' allowance;
b. after each 6 months' work there is a 10%
increase in wages;
c. an extended leave: 30 days per year to
workers;
d. a subsidy is granted for each member of the
family. Passage, and transport of baggage, is on
the account of the undertaking;
e. service in the North is counted two years
for one.
One should apply to the address: Kurile Gosrybtrest,
53 Menzhinskaya, Viadivostok.
*State Fishing Trust: translation.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Sept. 24, 1945
Seed Oysters from Japan
Dc/
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Hutchins, Foreign and Domestic Commerce
Mr. Flory, CD
COMMODITIES DIVISION
9485 0C 1 AM 10 48
ES
ECANCH
OCT -2 1945
IC
COPIEB TO:
0C/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
S
894.628/9-2485
FEF
The National Canners Association has contacted Mr.
Hutchins in its attempt to get seed oysters from Japan for
planting on the West Coast. The Association claims that the
West Coast oyster industry is likely to be in serious diffi-
culties if the seed is not obtained by April.
Last week Mr. Hutchins attempted to discuss this matter
with the people in the Department of State, but since Mr.
Kennedy was not available, referred the matter to the Commerce-
State liaison officer who is taking the matter up with Com-
munications this afternoon. Since he understands that effective
communication through the State Department is not possible,
Mr. Hutchins wants to communicate directly on a personal basis
CS/SMS594.628/9-2445
with Fiedler, in charge of Japanese fisheries, and secure
information as to the availability of seed, rather than using
official channels.
Mr. Hutchins has prepared a note to Fiedler asking for
information and requesting that Fiedler's reports be sent to
him informally.
I indicated to Hutchins that State was interested in
seeing that operations were carried out rapidly and effecti ly,
R
FILED
but that
91948

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
but that, as a rule, State would not countenance the conduct of
business through informal channels bypassing this Department.
Mr. Hutchins agreed to call me back and give me the
results of the conversation between the liaison officer and
the Department of State.
Seprr7.
Hatchius is Dending
peronol
Deedler by caunier.
mi
80
EMS
1℃.S7.
CD:WESFlory:pmc
9/24/45

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF FINANGIAL AFFAIRS
John I. Solomon,
OCT 3 1945
133 West 87th St.,
Now York, 24, N.Y.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sopt. 25th 1945.
The Honorable Secretary of State,
COMMODITIES DIVISION
Dc1
State Department,
Referred to Fa to
Washington, D.C.
SEP 2 8 1945
crw
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
In the year 1906 the writer at the invitation
of the then Inspector of the Pearl Banks and Marine Biologist
to the Government of Ceylon established as the pioneer
in the art, a pearl cultivation enterprise in the Gulf of Manear.
Later, because of the more favorable conditions, the enterprise
was removed by me to the Mergui Arohapelago off the coast
of Lower Burma, Burma then a province of British India.
I, a graduate of the Mass. Institute of Technology
had been an engineer in the employ of the General Electrio
Company, and as a hobby had been making a study of pearls
894.628/9-2
origin and cause.
I was encouraged to prooeed to Ceylon by Mr. Gano Dunn
new the president of J.G. White Engineering Oorporation who at
that time was vice president of the Crocker-Wheeler Eleetrie Co.,
and because of that company's foreign business Mr. Dunn even
at that early day was experienced in foreign business affairs.
Mr. Dunn also extended advice as to my finanees and through his
intimacy with the now Hon, Bernard M. Baruch disoussed the matter
-2545
on my behalf with him. Incidentally through intermarriages in our
two families Mr. Baruch for many years has been acquainted with me.
On the outbreak of World War 1 in l9l4 my enterprise
was in a thriving condition but the complioations then brought
about by the war, during and after, fluctuation in foreign exchange,
difficulty of transportation, the rise in the price of silver,
depreciation of the pound Sterling but, most serious of all; the
C
boyoott established against my product by the organized gem dealers
S
brought about the liquidation of my company. The enclosed copy of
7
letter from Mr. Dunn to me in the year 1928 and my reply thereto
n
will explain the situation.
6.8
After the establishment of my enterprise the Japanese
also went into the industry and their markets being at first In
F
which prospered mightily through World War, were then unaffeeted
by the boyoott. The Japanese survived and have built up a mighty
industry and a world-wide monopoly.
4
The enolosed copy of letter to the late Dr. Hugh M. Smith
Commissioner of Fisheries in the two Wilson administrations and
later fisheries adviser to the Government of Siam with the
acknowledgment thereof will explain themselves.
aus. ber.8 1945
by Q-C:em marthin
(wnni5i2)

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The Honerable Secretary of State
Sopt. 25th 1945.
The Japanese survived to have the fact established
through time, which because of the hiatus of the war and its
aftermath I was unsuccessful in so doing, that cultured pearls
are not imitation but are to be olassed a natural product, and thus
brought about the result which the boyootting gem dealers had
foreseen, the great depreciation in value of wild or so-called
"Orientai" pearls.
Surviving, the Japanese spread from their own home
waters to exploit the pearl fisheries of all the Bast Indian Seas
from the Mergui Archapelego down through the waters of the
Dutch East Indies, the Philippines into the waters of Australia.
Either pecause of appeasement, indifference or inability to police
and because of the skill and daring of their Japanese divers the Japanese
have depleted the shell resources of the Orient.
Where suitaule, the Japanese have estaplished pearl
cultivation stations on Dutoh possessions and on the possessions
of other nations the pearls therefrom being marketed not as Japanese
but as "South Sea Pearls".
Up until about two years before the "China Inoident" the
Japanese got large and remunerative prices for their product when
they suddenly began throwing immense quantities of their pearls
on the markets of the world at always falling prices until the prices
beoame fabulously low. It is now surmised by the trade that the
Japanese did that in order to gain foreign exohange in anticipation
of the coming conflict. At the low prices the markets readily absorbed
all the pearls offered poor qualities or whioh in strands being
sold even in Woolworth Stores. The markets are now swept practically
olean of all cultured pearls cut off as the Japanese have been during
the war years.
As the result of my own experience during World War 1 when
I was kept isolated and acoumulated my maturing crops I know that
the Japanese must now have immense accumulations of cultured pearls and
the markets are hungering for them.
If the Allied Powers are to secure reparations.from the
Japanese these stooks of cultured pearls, ir they can be located and
secured and then carefully marketed at their true values, will bring
in comparatively large sums.
In conclusion I would state -
(1) The pearl industry and the fishing for commercial sea
shells has been and still is a Japanese world monopoly.
(2) Of all people other than Japanese the writer has
the most complete knowledge of the industry.
(3) In conjunotion with reputable gem merohants who
have specialized in dealing in cultured pearls I can undertake the
world-wide sale of the Japamese accumulations.
Respectfully,
JIS/RB
JomSolomon
(Bno.lott
m,

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Nove 
GE PLACE
P
Johs I. Solomos, Bsq.,
Allerton House
45 Bast 55sh Street
New York.
Dear John,
I have been talking about you to Mr. Maurioe Holland
Director of the Engineering Division of the National Research
Counoil, with which I am identified.
Mr.Holland represented the National Researoh Council
as delegate to Japan not long ago, and brought back much inter-
esting informetion, including information about the development
of the pearl oulture industry. He has written articles in the
Atlantio Monthly and in Travel Magazine for Ootober 1928, which
have been seriously criticised by Dr. Kunz on account of the
statement that experts cannot distinguish between natural and eul-
tivated pearls.
I remember you were in the midst of this controveray omeo
before, and have told Mr. Holland that you are the founder of the
pearl culture industry thru your original ideas and thru your morly
work in Indis. I have also mentioned thet the Mereuses
holders in your company.
Mr. Holland, I am sure, could get a great deal of
information from you and you in turn would make a valuable cont
in meeting Mr. Holland, so I took the liberty of asking him if
would see you if I gave you a letter of introduction, whioh he sej
he will be glad to do. His office is in the United Engineering

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
1-1-28
ovteties Building, Division of Engineering and Indussrim
Feh of the National Researoh Council, 29 West 39th Stree
Tork.
I suggest you go to see him with this letter as an ine
uation. I am sending a copy of it in advance to Mr. Hollama.
Very sincerely yours,
(Signed) GANO DUNN
.s.
I would send you the Travel Magezine
for Ootober but am not sure you are still
at the Allerton House.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
ALDERTON HOUSE
45 East 55th Street
New York.
C
November
0
ano Dunn Esq.,
P
mo J.G. White Engr. Corp.
 Exchange Place,
York City
Dear Gano:
Thanks for your letter of November lst. Another friend
has already sent me a copy of Travel for October with Mr. Hol-
land's article.
Dr. George F. Kunz together with his confreres of the
chambre Syndicale in Paris, was largely the cause of the dowmfall
of my company. In l9l4, just before the outbreak of the war and
unknown to me, they established a boycott against me and performed
other acts, whioh in this country would be absolutely oriminal.
When I sought redress in the courts of France, I was debarred
because of a Moratorium, and later in the chaos and collapse
of the aftermath of the war I was prevented from proseouting Dr.
Kunz's pearl-dealing associates because of lack of funds.
During the last several years Dr. Kunz's Paris friends
have tried the same tactios and even worse against the Japanese.
They even went so far as to try to break Mikimoto's Paris Agent
by stealing his pearls. Finally, the controversy reaohing the
courts the Government referred the matter to the French Aoademy
of Scienoes, which decreed that the cultivated pearl so-called
is a true and natural produot.
Because of the unethical acts of the Chambre Syndicake
disclosed in the first law-suit, it was scathingly rebuked by
the Frenoh Government and M. Citroen the president or the Chambre
Syndicale, and Dr. Kunz's friend was foroed to resign.
In this country in l9l6 the American Jewelers' Proteotive
Association through its secretary M.D. Rothschild sought to have
the Department of Commerce place a restriction on oultivated
pearls, so unfair that I notified Rothschild I would warn the
Japanese Embassy, and they let the matter drop.
In every way I fought, but they proved to be too strong.
for me and I went under. The Japanese with the baoking of their
Government have survived, and they are reaping a great reward.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
Br. Kuns rides two horses.
lity to dateot Japanese pearls by their characterlstie yel
aish color, (the cherasteristis of pearls from Vemesuele
cultivated pearl from a wild one.
It is for this reason thatnow when the Japanese get
pearls of really desirable colors, they are selling them in
or to the Arabs from Bombay, who are now journeying to Japan
are they togget them. At Bombay they are mixed in with lots
"Oriental" pearls, and as such are sent on to Paris and bought
Dr. Kunz's friends, who later sell them to him, all unknowing
they originally came.
Yours sincerely,
JIS:AC
ENCLS.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
SMITHSONLAN INSTITUTIO
UNITED STATES NATIONALYNON
WASHINGTON, D.C.
April 10, 1942.
Mr. John I. Solomon,
121 West 87th Street,
New York, New York
Dear Mr. Solomon:
We are sorry to inform you that
Dr. Hugh M. Smith died on September 28th 1941.
Sincerely yours,
signed -
H. Schmaltz
Division of Fishes

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
John I. Solemon
121 West 87th St.,
Now York
April 2nd 1942.
Dr. Hugh M. Smith,
National Museum,
Washington, D.C.
My dear Dootor Smith:
When I called on you in Ootober of 1940 you
expleined to me how you were not then in particularly
robust health, as a result of your expertences in
the hurricane of the year before, so in writing to you
now I am wondering as to your present well-being.
I am glad to be able to write that I am apparently
in very good health, and so am thinking about conditions
after the war, provided we win it.
You, during the last war, when as an army oaptain
I was for a time stationed in Washington, introduced me
at your Cosmos Club to a group as "This man knows more
about pearls than any man in the World". Naturally I
have always remembered that compliment.
So, having had my pioneer pearl cultivation enterprise
in India destroyed by the previous great war, and by the
opposition of the gem trade which opposition is now in
the disoard, and believing that the Japanese who have since
monopolized the pearl industry will not in the event of
their defeat, be appeased again to the extent that
without let or hindrance they be again allowed to operate
in and monopolize British controlled, Dutoh, Australian
and Philippine waters, I have thought that I might mmke
plans to present to the governments interested a soheme
for taking over or inaugurating operations in pearl oulture
which have been so profitable for the Japanese.
With this in mind I am writing to ask if you can give
me a letter of introduction to our present Commissioner of
Fisheries.
Not knowing your condition of health now, I do
earnestly hope that this letter will find you well.
Yours very truly,
JIS/RB
signed - John I. Solomon

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
CHANLES'R. SAVAGE
'S BeT. WAHSTON
EXBGUTIVE SBCRETARY
RICHARD T. WATSON
Congress of the United States
ROOM 136
HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
Douse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
October 17, 1945
IVISION OF COMMERCIAL FULICY
MG,012
EPARTMENT OF STAIL
r. merrill C. Gay
assistant Chief in Charge
Far and ddle astern ranch
Division. of Comercial Policy
Office of International Trade Policy
Department of State
nashington 25, . 0.
year mr. y:
I wn ynclosing, herewith, a letter I just received from
r. F. .. athias, pirector and eed Comittee Chairman of the
894.628/10-1745
Pacifie Coait Oyster rowers Association, located at Olympia, Nash-
inton, together with a copy of a letter they have written to Gen-
cral Douglus Macarthur, relative to the possibility of re-opening
XR
busi ess negotiations with the seed oyster growers of the Sendai
Day area on the Island of Honshu, Empire of Japan.
611.949
This matter was disoussed with Mr. . Robert Schaetzel,
Special assistant to the Director of the Office of International
Trade Policy, wid it is at his suggestion that I am contacting you.
I belleve that r. lathias' letter, w.d the copy of the
letter to General acarthur, set forth in detail just what is de-
sired by the nssociation. I shall deeply appreciate your looking
into this natter for me with a view toward forwarding me your ad-
vice and assistance on thhe same.
894.
Please return the enclosures to me with your reply.
Thanking you in advance for your kindness in this matter,
and with best wishes, I a,
NOV 21 1945
FALE
29
Obarle RSavage
Jincerely yours,
LDA
10-174s
Charles R. Savage
mwd

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-COPY
PACIFIC COAST OYSTER GROWERS ASSOCIATION
202 First National Bank Building
Olympia,Washington.
October 12, 1945
Hon. Charles R.Savage, M.C.,
Third District, Woshington
Huse Office Buildin,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Charley:
I am enclosing a copy of a letter sent to Allied
Supreme Commender, General MacArthur in Tokyo. This
letter was authorized at the lest meeting of the
Pocific Coast yster Growers Ass ciation at Raymond.
At the meeting, it was stated that Mr. M. Yamishita,
Japanese who formerly imported seed and furnished it on
consi nment basis to Jananese growers in this country,
is a cin attemnting to get into the seed oyster business.
He has been apnroaching oyster growers in Washington,
Ore on and C lifornia to place orders with him for seed
oysters.
The association is definitely against Mr. Yamashita
having enything to do with the seed oyster business.
We are writin Mr. Milo Moore, Stete Director of
Fisheries and also Mr. Ira N. Gabrielson, Director,
Fish and Wild Life Service, Department of the Interior.
We will be very lad to have eny assi stance you can
give in the matter of obteining seed oysters.
The Pacific oyster set in Willipa and Grays Harbors,
Hood Canal and Puget Sound waters has been almost nil in
the past two years.
With kind regards,
Sincerely,
S/s F. W. Mathias, Director and
Seed Committee Chairman.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
CC PY
October 2, 1945
General Douglas MacArthur,
Allied Supreme Commander.
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear General MacArthur:
We will value your aid in obtaining information for
the guidance of this association in obtaining seed oysters
from Japan.
Large quantities of seed oysters, species -Ostrea
Gegas raised in Japanese waters have been shipped to oyster
growers in Washington, Oreron and California for a period
of fifteen to twenty years. This seed oyster importation
business, which started in the 1920's continued through
the 193o's and ended with the Japanese attach on Pear1
Horbor.
The "Pacific" oyster industry developed rapidly in
Puget Sound, Willipa and Grays Harbors, Washington, and
extended to the Oregon coastal harbors and to northern
California harbors.
The Pacific Coast Oyster Growers Association was
or anized under recuirements of the National Recovery
Act and elso for the protection of the oyster growers in
the three Pacific Coest Stetes. Many problems were en-
countered that included an attempt by Japanese to control
the oyster industry in Washington, Oregon and California.
This associetion was able to protect the interests of
the American Cyster Growers nd acted as the sold seed
oyster importing organization, following many troublesome
encounters with Japanese interests.
The Japanese government, represented by the Japanese
Counsel in Seattle, finally worked out a program, enabling
this association to deal with the seed oyster growers in
the Sendai Bay region on the Island of Honshu. The seed
oysters from this area gave satisfactory results and were
inspected by Jananese government biologists, certifying
that no drills of other detrimental marine life was being
shipped with the boxes of seed oysters.
It is the wish of this association to deal direct with
the oyster growers of the Sendai Bay area, obtaining the
best quality of seed oysters that will pass inspection of
Japanese and United States biologists.
We would like to know (1) when contact may be made with
the rowers or an association of growers of seed oysters
1n

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
in Sendai Bay area; (2) Was there an oyster seed catoh in
1945? (3) Extent of seed catch; (4) When business relations
can be re-opened with the Senda1 Bay seed growers;,(5)
Officer or Federal Department to contact for negotiations.
We will appreciate your aid in obtaining the desired
information.
Faithfully,
F. W. Mathias, Director and
Cheirman, Seed Oyster Committee.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.91)
NOV
My dear Mr. Savage:
20
tion with respeet to the possibilities of ressming
894.628/10-1745
of your eerrespendent.
Because ef the urgent preblems ef a militasy and
politieal nature with whish the essupatien autherities
have been fased, it is net pessible at this sime te
open direet trade between individuals er finme in 
surveyed, with partieular attentien given firet te
Japanese islands.
In answer to the specirie mmbered questiens raieed
in Mr. Mathias: letter of Osteber 2 to General Masartieer,
the fellowing infermation ean be given:
(1) m
LD
2h
The Hemerable
-1745
Charles I. Savage,
Reuse ef Representatives.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
(1) In view ef the eirewmstanees deseribed
grewers er asseeiatiens of grevers and Amerie
growers eam be permitted in the mear future.
(2) and (s) Data have not been reseived eeme
serning the seed oyster eateh in l94s, bat we shall
be glad to forward sush information as seem as it
becomes possible to procure it.
(4) Although direct business relatiens eamnst
be reopened with Japanese suppliers of seed eysters
in the near future, it is possible that, if seed
oysters are found to be available for expert and
will be made available by the designated Allied
authorities for purchase in the Ameriean market.
(5) Suitable arrangements have not been
entirely completed for designating federal govern-
ment channels for handling requests for inferme-
tion on Japanese foreign trade matters. Pending
the creation of sueh arrangements, however, I
hope you will feel free to let the Department
know if you have further questions on these
matters.
Sincerely yours,
Jawes F. Byrnes
L
Enclosure:
From Mr. Mathias,
October 12, 1945
CR
with enclosure
NO
5
Routing
ITP
CP:MCGay:MMc
10/24-30/45

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.90)
Cfoe Memorandum
Under Sesretary of
State
Constance G. Gaynor, C..
FROM
taleahyF
Project Control Starr
SUBJECT:
NOV
Attached'is a copy of the above report for your use.
Attached also are copies of the following reports:
COMMODITIES
0
JS- 7 -Postwer Contra of the Japanese Light Metals Industty
NOV9Y1945
JS-
RECEIVE
DEPARTMED OF STATE
ECRDS
5
OENT
R (TP Unit
2
1945 NOV
217.K.
N0V141945
80
1945
RTMENT OF STATE
Oa
CB
Enes ard
71

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
38-7
SECRET
Copw no.217
POREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
POSTWAR CONTROL OF THE JAPANESE LIGHT METALS INDUSTRY
September 20, 1945
SECRET
16 e52 Cover

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Table of Contents
Pare
PART I.
SUMMARY
1
PART II.
DISCUSSION
3
A. Justification of the Control Proposals
3
1. How and Why the Japanese Light Metals
Industry Developed
3
2.
Japanese Production, Consumption and
Requirements of Light Metals
7
3.
Sources and Requirements of Raw Materials
for the Japanese Light Metals Industry
9
4.
Potential Role of Scrap Metal in Supplying
Future Japanese Requirements for the Light
Metals
14
5.
Labor Requirements in the Light Metals
Industry
16
6.
Future Sources of Light Metal Products for
Other Far Eastern Areas
16
7.
Aluminum and Magnesium as Substitutes
for Other Metals
17
B. Proposed Controls Over the Japanese Light
Metals Industry
18
Proposal 1
18
Proposal 2
20
Proposal 3
20
PART III. APPENDICES
22
Appendix 1, Alumina Plants in Japan Proper
23
Appendix 2, Aluminum Plants in Japan Proper
24
Appendix 3,
Magnesium Plants in Japan Proper
25
Appendix 4,
Major Japanese Aluminum Alloy
Sheet Rolling Mills
26
Appendix 5,
Japanese Production, Imports and
Exports of Aluminum
27
Appendix 6,
Japanese Production, Imports and
Exports of Magnesium
29
Appendix 7,
Japanese Imports, Requirements and
Stockpiles of Bauxite
30
Appendix 8,
Chemical Composition of Some Naturally
Occurring Aliminous Raw Materials
31
Appendix 9,
Production Processes Used in the
Japanese Light Metals Industries
35
Appendix 10, Employment and Production Rate in U.S.
Light Metals Industry
44
Appendix 11, Japanese Exports of Aluminum Manu-
factures by Values
45
SECRET
B2 ps of 4a ba es up

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Postrer Control of the Japanese Light
Notale Industry
PART I - SUMMARY
Thorough study of the Japanese light metals industry indicates
that complete elimination of aluminum and magnesium production and strict
limitation of their processing are necessary steps toward the industrial
disarmament of Japan to safeguard future peace. The following basic
reasons support this conclusion:
1. The Japenese light metals industry was created during the
1930's solely to make Japan self-sufficient in these metals, which are
essential in the manufacture of aircraft, inoendiary bombs, and other
materials of war.
2. Production and processing of aluminum and magnesium have
been expanded far beyond any legitimate Japanese civilian needs for these
metals and, unless controlled, will be of continuing military value to
Japan.
3. It will not be possible to control the Japanese light metals
industry by lixiting imports of raw materials, because both aluminum and
magnesium can be produced from materials available in Japan.
4. Japanese requirements for aluminum and magnesium were formerly
met by net imports so modest in amount that a similar arrangement in the
postwar period should be economically feasible and justifiable.
SECRET

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
5. Light metals plants now in existence in former Japanese-
controlled areas of the Asiatic mainland are more than adequate to
produce the minor amounts of finished light metals products which
Japan exported to other Far Eastern areas in the prewar years.
6. Elimination of Japanese light metals production is essential
to prevent substitution of aluminum, magnesium and their alloys for
certain uses of iron and steel, copper and other metals whose control
may be undertaken.
7. Employment in any aspect of the Japanese light metals industry
was very minor in the Japanese peacetime economy. The displacement of
workers from the present over-expanded industry should therefore not be
a substantial factor in determining the future of light metals produo-
tion or processing in Japan.
The following fundamental steps appear to be necessary for the
complete elimination of aluminum and magnesium production and for the
strict limitation of their processing in Japan:
1. Removal or destruction of all Japanese plants producing
alumina, aluminum or magnesium metal.
2. Removal or destruction of all Japanese light metals processing
equipment not required to meet approved civilian requirements of fab-
ricated produots.
3. Controls over imports of alumina and of primary and secondary
aluminum, magnesium and their alloys, and over selected raw materials
for their production.
16 052 p€ b

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
5
-3-
PART II - DISCUSSION
In studying the question of economic controls as a means of curb-
ing future Japanese aggression, it is obviously necessary to examine all
branches of industry which are major contributors to war potential.
Fundamentally, interest centers in preventing manufacture of the actual
instruments of war, but back of such production lies the supply of basic
materials such as metals. Because the light metals, aluminum and mag-
nesium, have achieved outstanding importance in modern warfare, particu-
larly for aircraft and incendiaries, this industry must be considered
basically as a part of the Japanese war machine.
It is, therefore, essential to study all aspects of the Japanese
light metals industry in order to determine whether controls are neces-
sary, whether they are feasible and how they may best be applied.
A. Justification of the Control Proposals
1. How and Why the Japanese Light Metals Industry Developed
Because the role of the light metals in modern warfare is thoroughly
established, it is not necessary to dwell in detail on their importance
to the Japanese in the current war. The Japanese aircraft industry is
heavily dependent on light metal alloys, as is ours. The Japanese use
aluminum and magnesium in incendiary and other bombs, as we do. In other
Japanese war material also, wide use is made of the light metals.
These uses were obviously anticipated long before l941. Magnesium
production was undertaken in Japan in l931 and aluminum production began
in 1934. The two industries were therefore created during the period in
10 088 p0 0

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
which Japan was actively fostering the rapid expansion of all industries
vital to a war program.
During the years immediately preceding 1934, world aluminum pro-
duction suffered a marked slump. Overall world output in 1933 was only
53.5 percent of the 1930 level; in the United States the figure was
37.2 percent. Obviously no economic justification existed for establish-
ment of the Japanese aluminum industry at that time.
The importance nevertheless attached by the Japanese government to
production of the light metals is readily shown by the manner in which the
aluminum'industry was fostered and subsidized. The government encouraged
the establishment of aluminum manufacturing companies sponsored by old-
line concerns with technological background, with control over power in-
stallations or with experience in importing machinery and supplies.
The pioneer producers had the benefit of foreign technical assist-
ance and imported equipment in building and equipping the new plants.
Although these factors facilitated development of the industry, they
probably made installation costs high. Production costs for aluminum
were also elevated by the necessity of importing not only the basic raw
material, bauxite, but also various accessory raw materials.
In June 1936 the infant industry was granted the protection of a
new tariff law which increased the duty on aluminum ingot from 72 to
295 yon per metric ton. The duty on scrap was raised to the same figure.
Another substantial impetus to expansion of the industry was given
by the "Light Metal Man ufacturing Industry Law" promulgated on May 1, 1939.
1
Under this law, companies licensed to enter the light metals field were
1 Aluminum Nenkan-Magnesium Soran (1939).
r6 052 Pe b

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
exempt from profit tax, income tax and local taxes for five years after
their completion, and were exempt from import duties on approved machinery
and equipment. Licensed companies were also permitted unusually liberal
terms with regard to capital increases and issuing of debentures.
The government reserved the right to inspect plants, set prices,
regulate imports, exports and sales of the light metals and the required
raw materials, and, based on military necessity, to order increases in
capacity, changes in manufacturing processes, stockpiling of raw materials,
and research on manufacturing problems, and to regulate corporate form.
Because of the liberal provisions of this law and the previous
liberal policy, a number of companies were encouraged to enter the field.
However, it seems likely that in any event other factors would have
directed the erection of a number of relatively small plants rather than
a few large ones. Of most weight was undoubtedly the not too abundant
supply of electric power, which made it advisable to scatter the light
metals plants wherever power surpluses were available or where new power
installations (particularly hydroelectric) were feasible. In addition,
security considerations probably also dictated a scattered light motals
industry.
The Japanese government fostered installation of light metals
plants not only in Japan Proper but also in Formosa, Korea, Manchuria
and North China in order to take advantage of resources in raw materials
and electric power. Consequently the light metals capacity at present
available in Japan itself is considerably increased by the capacities in-
stalled in other Japanese-controlled areas. Because this development has
80 05 7 0

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
-6-
been accelerated since 1941, and because of other changes during the war
years, the present status of the industry is somewhat uncertain, though
the following summary is believed to be substantially correct:
Alumina
Aluminum
Magnesium
No. of plants, Japan Proper
.13
13
7
n
11
, other Jap. areas
10
9
7
a
n
n
11
23
22
D
Cap., m.t./yr., Japan Proper
429,000
山7,500
9,400
n
n
n, other Jap. areas
230,000
137,500
10,950
".,
", all
n
659,000
285,000
20,350
Owmership, location and annual capacities of individual plants are
listed in Appendices 1, 2 and 3 of Part III.
Between production of the light metals and their emergence as
finished goods for military or civilian use stands the fabricating step
in which the metals or their alloys are rolied, extruded, forged or cast
into usable semi-fabricated shapes. Ihe Japanese light metals fabrication
industry antedates the production of aluminum and magnesium, for the
Japanese had been fabricating imported aluminum on a modest scale for a
number of years. In this field the Japanese were able to draw on the
experience of several large concerns well-versed in handling other metals.
Foreign technicians and iported equipment were also brought in before
the war.
There is little reason to doubt that the fabricating industry was
adequate to process the Japanese wartime output of aluminum and magnesium.
Much of the equipment is known to be modern though some degree of im-
provisation has probably entered into the wartime expansion of the industry.
ré 052 pa bu

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
-7 -
Available lists of Japanese metal fabricating plants cover opera-
tions not here considered as having to do with the processing of the
light metals and their alloys into primary shapes. The list of fabricat-
ing plants in Appendix 4 is restricted to those believed to be the major
installations specializing in the rolling of aluminum alloy sheet.
Some of these mills also made forgings and extrusions but most light
metal castings, forgings and extrusions are believed to have been made
in airframe plants, and some castings were made in small foundries.
Such plants are not included in this study and are therefore not listed
in Appendix 4. Likewise, this appendix does not include those plants
producing finished products from the primary shapes, nor is it necessary
to consider this category for purposes of control. Such plants will be
automatically restricted if the metal producing plants and the primary
fabricating plants are controlled. .
2. Japanese Production, Consumption and Requirements of Light Metals
Before production of the light metals began in Japan, consumption
was relatively small and was of course met entirely by imports. Pro-
duction of magnesium metal began on a small scale in 193l; apparent con-
sumption (including very small imports) increased from 10 tons in 1931
to 138 tons in 1934, averaging 76 tons. After this period, magnesium
production was rapidly expanded; capacity in Japan Proper is estimated
to have reached 9,400 metric tons, and in all Japanese-controlled areas,
20,350 metric tons.
1
See Appendices 5 and 6 of Part III for data on Japanese production,
exports and imports of aluminum and magnesium.
165

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
-8°-
From 1926 to 1929, inclusive, aluminum imports averaged 3,659
metric tons annually; in the depression years of 1930 to 1933 they dropped
to an average of 7,830 metric tons. Aluminum production began in 1934
and apparent consumption averaged 16,825 metric tons from 1934 thru 1937,
of which an average of 71 percent came from imports. Inports totalled
about 23,000 metric tons in 1938 and again in 1939, accounting for 63 per-
cent and 51 percent of apparent consumption. Imports dropped to 2,420
metric tons in 1940, presumably due to foreign embargoes and to the war
in Europe rather than to lack of interest on the part of the Japanese.
As installed capacity increased, domestic output advanced steadily
from the 664 metric tons produced in 1934 to a reported maximum of 140,000
7
metric tons in 1943, presumably for all Japanese-controlled areas. It is
believed that about 50 percent of the 1943 production came from plants in
Japan Proper. After 1943, aluminum production dropped, largely due to de-
creased imports of bauxite, and the Japanese were able to produce only
1
6,500 metric tons of aluminum in the first quarter of 1945.
The aluminum consumed in Japan in 1934 was distributed among the
2
following uses:
Industry
Quantity in
Percent
metric tons
of Total
Transportation (land, water, air)
4,230
38
Housenold utensils and foodequipment
1,802
16
Electric cables and wire
1,915
17
Machinery
901
384324
Steel metallurgy
901
Non-ferrous alloys
450
Building
338
Chemical equipment
225
Other
450
Total
11,262
100
1
Report of Prince Higashi-Kuni to Japanese Diet, quoted in Domei radio
broadcast, Sept. 5, 1945.
2/
Percentages - The Mining agazine (London) Vol. 59, No. 2, p. 81, Aug. 1938.
Quantity - See Appendix 5 of Part III.
1€ 053 p1e bu

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-9 -
Because of advances in civilian uses of light metals, Japanese
consumption in the postwar period probably can not reasonably be pushed
back to the level of the years before l934. Per capita consumption of
aluminum in Japan from 1926 through 1933 averaged only about ? 1b. an-
nually; in the same period apparent consumption in the United States
was about 2 to 3 lbs. per person per year. A 40 percent increase over
1926-1929 consumption of aluminum in Japan would raise the allowance to
about 12,000 metric tons per year, and would be approximately at the 1934
lovel.
3. Sources and Requirements of Raw Materials for the Japanese Light
Motals Industry
Aluminous ores. Bauxite, the ore universally most favored for
aluminum production, apparently does not occur in Japan Proper. Of the
other Far Eastern areas under Japanese control before 1941, only the
Palao, Ponape and Yap Islands appear to have commercially exploitable
bauxite deposits, reported to aggregate 10,000,000 metric tons of high
grade material. Bauxite mining in these islands began in 1938; maximm
prewar production was reached in 1940 when 43,000 metric tons were mined
and shipped to Japan. Since four tons of high-grade bauxite on an
average are required to yield one ton of aluminum, the l940 output was
sufficient to produce only 10,750 metric tons of metal, less than one-
third of the estimated Japanese aluminum production for that year.
It was, therefore, necessary for the Japanese, before the war, to
import large quantities of bauxite from non-Japanese controlled areas or
to make use of such aluminous raw materials as were available in localities
held by the Japanese. The original endeavor, when the Japanese aluminum

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
industry first began, was to use clays, shales and alunite from Manohuria,
Korea and North China. These attempts were not markedly successful and
most of the pioneer companies turned to imported bauxite befere 19kl.
As shown in Appendix 7 of Part III, the Japanese imported much
more bauxite after 1937 than required for their current production of
aluminum. It is obvious from the enormous size of the bauxite stookpile
created that the Japanese had not at that time solved the problem of
producing aluminum from domestic raw materials and were actively creating
a large bauxite reserve for future use.
The 642,597 tons of bauxite presumably held in Japan at the end
of 1940 (see Appendix 7) were sufficient to make about 160,000 tons of
aluminum metal. No data are available on imports of bauxite during 1941,
but it was reported that shipments from the Netherlands East Indies stopped
entirely in August of that year. This loss was a severe blow to the
Japanese for the NEI had furnished more than 60 percent of Japanese im-
ports of bauxite from 1935 through 1940 and supplied nearly 75 percent
of the large imports in 1940.
Obviously, Japanese prospects for bauxite imports improved very
considerably with Japanese occupation of t he Netherlands East Indies and
Malaya and large shipments were undoubtedly made from these areas until
Allied interference virtually cut them off.
Because Japanese aluminum requirements increased enormously after
1940, it was necessary for the Japanese to draw heavily on their large
stockpile of bauxite. It is believed that the stockpile has by now
been exhausted, and that no supplies of bauxite exist in Japan.
ra os piau

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
This belief is reinforced by the greatly renewed Japanese in-
terest in production of alumina from the shales, clays and alunite avail-
able in Korea, Manchuria and North China. These materials are not suit-
able for use in standard Bayer plants designed to produce alumina from
bauxite. The Japanese therefore made major adjustments in the equipment
of existing alumina plants and in some cement plants, in the hope of pro-
ducing the required alumina from such shales, clays and alunite. In the
course of this program, a considerable increase in alumina capacity was
apparently effected, beyond the needs of the aluminum plants under Japanese
control, but when bauxite became unavailable the unconverted Bayer plants
could no longer be operated. However, the total installed capacity must
be considered in evaluating overall Japanese potential for alumina pro-
duction, and is therefore included in Appendix 1 and in the summary
table on page 6.
Recent evidence strongly indicates that the Japanese attempts to
produce their wartime alumina requirements from clays, shales and alunite
were on the whole not successful. The conversion program referred to
above is believed to have been completed in June l944, yet, according to
2/
a Japanese source, aluminum production fell from 140,000 metric tons in
1943, the peak year, to only 6,500 metric tons in the first quarter of
1945. This drastic decrease cannot be accounted for by bomb damage,
electric power shortage or any other major factor except the inability of
the Japanese to produce the necessary alumina.
However, workers in the Tennessee Valley Authority have reported
favorable technological results from pilot plant studies on production of
See Appendix 8 for analyses of various aluminous raw materials, and
Appendix 9 for description of various processes used for production of
alumina.
2 See p. 8 and Appendix 5.
re p

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
-12 -
alumina from Tennessee clays by the lime sinter-soda leach process, believed
to be the method most widely used by the Japanese. It must therefore be
assumed that future work by the Japanese could solve the difficulties
encountered in their attempts to use clays, shales and alumite as a
source of alumina, and the Japanese alumina potential must be evaluated
accordingly.
Indications are that the Japanese attempted to use aluminous raw
materials from Manchuria, Korea and North China to replace the unavail-
able bauxite. They also reported finding such materials in Iwate pre-
fecture, Honshu and on Hokkaido. Analyses reported in Appendix 8 of
Part III show a striking similarity in chemical composition of the clays
successfully used in the TVA studies and of Japanese deposits of ceramic
clays. It is, therefore, possible that Japanese aluminum production in
the postwar period cannot be effectively controlled by limiting imports
of bauxite.
Accessory raw materials used in the aluminum industry. As showm
in Appendix 9 of Part III, the alumina production methods most comonly
used by the Japanese require either soda ash or caustic soda, which can
be made from soda ash. Consumption is small, however — O.O6l ton of
caustic soda (equivalent to 0.O88 metric tons of soda ash) per ton of
10. 088 P140

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
alumina by the Bayer process, and 0.042 ton of soda ash per ton of alu-
mina by the lime sinter-soda leach process. The total soda requirement,
calculated as soda ash, for the estimated 1944 Japanese production of
alumina probably does not exceed 35,000 metric tons.
In 1938 total Japanese production of soda ash was 886,721 metric
tons. Even though much of the salt required for soda ash production is
imported into Japan, soda ash requirements would not be a limiting factor
in determining Japanese alumina production.
The quantity of limestone required in the lime sinter-soda leach
process is large and the quality requirements are rigorous but neither
factor would limit or control alumina production. The same is true of
accessory materials required in the other alumina processes.
Aluminum metal is universally made by electrolysis of alumina dis-
solved in molten cryolite. High grade carbon is required for the anodes,
about 0.6 to 0.7 ton being consumed per ton of me tal produced. Consumption
of cryolite and other fluoride salts is about O.l ton per ton of aluminum.
Before the war, Japan imported pitch coke for electrodes and also im-
ported cryolite. Domestic sources of electrode materials had to be used
during the war and cryolite was made from fluorspar mined in the Far East.
Fluorspar has a variety of uses and its control would be difficult to
enforce.
Large amounts cf electric power are required in the electrolytic
production of aluminum, consumption being about 22,000 kwh. per metric
ton of metal. A plant producing 20,000 metric tons of aluminum annually
would thus require 440,000,000 kwh. of electric power. It would thus
be difficult to conceal operation of a sizeable aluminum plant if electric
power were closely allocated or its generation controlled.
1e 058 p15 bu

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
Basic rex materials for magnesius prodnction. Because megnesium
can be produced from sea water, its provision in adequate quantities
offers no difficulty in Japan. Natural brines or the bitterns left
from production of solar salt are alternate sources. Dolomite is
widely distributed and is the raw material of choice in the Pidgeon
process. It is thus evident that Japan will not lack a ready source
of magnesium.1
Accessory ray materials for mamesiun production. According to
the process used, a variety of accessory raw materials may be required
for magnesium production (see Appendix 9). Because overall magnesium
requirements in either a peacetime or war economy are relatively small,
the problem of supplying the needed accessory materials plays no con-
trolling role in production of the metal.
As in electrolytic production of aluminum, power requirements are
large for electrolytic production of magnesius. Hovover, unlike the
alumimum industry, alternative methods are available for magnesium
production. Control over electric power distribution or generation is
thas not an effective means of curbing magnesium production.
4. Potemtial Role of Scrap Hetal in Supplying Future Japanese Reguire
monts for the Licht Notals
Besides the alumimum and magnesium produced as virgin metal directly
from the raw materials, scrap or secondary metal may also play an
important part in satisfying a country's requirements for the light
metals. Secondary metal is of two kinds: (1) the scrap generated by
users of the virgin metal or its alloys in fabricating finished goods,
and (2) tho
1/ Nearby Korea has virtually inexhaustible supplies of high grade
marnesite, and excellent raw material for magnesium production.
16.058 p16 bu

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
一15-
serap obtained by salvaging discarded metal objects. Sorap of the first
type may be re-used directly by the producing industry, usually being
first cast into ingot; scrap of the second type reappears on the market
as secondary ingot.
Well-segregated scrap generated by the fabricating industries may
be put to all the uses for which the original ingot was suited, including
the making of high-strength alloy products. However, insofar as the
Japanese are forced to meet their postwar needs for alumimum from salvage
scrap, they will not be able to make airplane wings and certain other
critical war items requiring high-strength alloys.
As shown in Appendix 5 of Part III, Japanese imports of aluminum
in the prewar years included a substantial proportion of scrap metal.
ranging from less than 1 percent of the total in 1927 to a maximam of
55 percent in 1933. The provisions in the tariff act of 1936, by which
the duty on both primary and secondary aluminum was set at 295 yem per
metric ton, was possibly intended to discourage imports of sorap metal.
Sorap 1mports were relatively low in 1936 but in 1938 and 1939, they im
creased in almost the same proportions as did imports of virgin metal.
It is not possible to estimate what amount of light metal sorap
will be found avallable in Japan. The total will include not only stocks
of recirculating scrap at plants and such salvage sorap as may be strowm
over Japan, but also metal in the "pipeline" from semi-fabrication to
the finished stage. To this must be added whatever amount of metal
still exists in primary ingot form.
10 058 p17. 

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
- 16 -
It is essential that there be made a complete inventory of all
primary and secondary aluminum and magnesium alloys available in Japan
before a decision is made as to the amount of new metal which the Japanese
may be allowed to import. Such stocks should be kept under Allied control
and released at the rate necessary to meet Japanese civilian needs. It
is possible that requirements for some time to come can be met from stocks
found in Japan.
5. Labor Requirements in the Light Metals Industry
Specific aata on employment in the basic plants of the Japanese
light metals industry are not available, but comparable data for the
United States indicate the rather modest labor requirements (see Appendix
10). Even assuming considerably lower output per worker in Japanese
plants, it is not likely that more than 15,000 workers were employed in
Japan during the war in production of alumina and of aluminum and mag-
nesium ingot.
It seems probable that the entire Japanese light metals industry,
including production of primary and secondary metals and their fabrica-
tion, even at the wartime rate of production and processing, employed no
more than l00,000 workers. The displacement of workers is, therefore,
not a major consideration in determining the future of the Japanese light
metals industry.
6. Future Sources of Light Metal Products for Other Far Eastern Areas
As shown in Appendices 5 and 6, Japan's exports of primary aluminum
and magnesium and scrap aluminum were insignificant before the war. Total
aluminum exports in this category exceeded 1,000 metrde tons only in 1935.
Maximum magnesium exports were 237 metrio tons in 1936.
10 05* p18 b

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-17 -
Of more significance were exports of fabricated aluminum products,
chiefly aluminum utensils to China and the Pacific Islands and sheet
aluminum to British India. (See Appendix 11). Maximm axports (1935)
were valued at 3,314,600 yen.
After that time the Japanese built aluminum plants in Formosa,
Manchuria, Korea and probably North China with a total capacity estimmted
at 137,500 metric tons. (See page 6). Although the weight of metal in
the aluminum product exports is not known, it could not have been more
than 1,000 tons as a maximum and could obviously be supplied by Far
Eastern plants outside of Japan Proper.
7. Aluminum and Magnesium as Substitutes for Other Metals
In many of the uses to which the light metals have been put, they
have been chosen because no other commercial metals are as well suited
in physical or chemical properties. This is notably true of their chief
wartime uses -- aircraft and incendiaries. Aluminum alloys also have won
a place for themselves in the civilian economy which assures a continuing
demand for the metal. Magnesium alloys in the prewar years had less com-
mercial acceptance for civilian uses.
The degree to which the light metals will be used in the postwar
years in a given country is complicated by a number of factors. Assuming
the free availability of iron and steel, copper and other important metals,
the amounts of light metals used will depend on their availability, on
requirements for the customary uses and on relative costs, consumer accept-
ance and on technological research with regard to new uses. Recent esti-
mates of possible consumption in the United States after the war differed

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
- 18 -
widely, according to the importance attacned to these various factors.
However, it is commonly agreed that the light metal alloys can be sub-
stituted for many customary uses of iron and steel in transport equipment,
electrical appliances, industrial equipment, and in building construction.
Aluminum can also be substituted for copper,as in electric cable.
Assuming that iron and steel, copper and otner strategic metals
are to be controlled in Japan in the postwar period, it is obvious that
the Japanese will neglect no opportunity to substitute other materials
for the controlled metals. Ready availability of the light metals would,
therefore, to some degree, vitiate attempted control over the heavier
metals. Control over the light metals is thus an integral part of the
general control over Japanese industrial capacity.
B. Proposed Controls Over the Japanese Light Metals Industry
The necessity of sharply reducing the amounts of light metals
available to the Japanese has been clearly set forth in the preceding
section. Controls intended to achieve this end must be simple to insti-
tute and supervise and difficult to evade. With these factors in mind,
the following controls are proposed:
1. Removal or destruction of all Japanese
plants producing alumina, aluminum or
magnesium.
This is believed a necessary step in the industrial disarmament
of Japan, and should not be difficult to accomplish during the occupation
period. To delay or discourage reconstruction of such plants, facilities
1
Senate Committee on Small Business - Hearings on Light Metals,
February-March, 1945.
10 053 p20. bu

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
-19 -
for generating direct current or for converting alternating into direct
current should be considered as part of the metal producing plant whion
they serve.
Presumably, periodic inspection will be required to assure that
new capacity is not erected for producing aluminum and magnesium. Sudh
new construction can be rendered difficult if the Japanese are deniea
access to imported equipment and are not permitted the opportunity of
making it themselves. If the generation and distribution of electric
power are controlled, electrolytic production of aluminum and magnesium
should not be difficult to detect.
However, it must be pointed out that one of the commercial methods
for magnesium producticn, the Pidgeon process, is eminently suited to
operation in small units and does not directly require large amounts of
electricity. Such plants might be easily concealed.
For several reasons, complete elimination of light metals plants
in Japan is believed preferable to permitting a limited capacity to
remain. If the Japanese were allowed to produce their legitimate require-
ments of aluminum and magnesium, they would continue to have a body of
trained technicians who could serve as a nucleus for rebuilding the in-
dustry. Research on new or better production methods would be encouraged
by the existence of such an industry.
It may be argued tnat elimination of light metals production in.
Japan may not serve to control future aggression. However, the light
metals are essential components of war material as we now know it, and it
cannot be.assumed that they will not be of vital usefulness in the future
ba ess pes be

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
2. Removal or destruction of all
Japanese light metals processing
equipment not required to meet
approved requirements of fabri-
cated products.
It is obvious that reduction of Japanese capacity for processing
the light metals and their alloys will serve as an additional check on
the resurgence of the Japanese light metals industry.
In practice, a comfortable surplus of processing capacity must be
allowed because of different choices which the Japanese may be allowed
to make as to utilization of their light metals supplies. However, it
will be advisable to eliminate certain types of equipment required for
producing or processing high-strength alloys, for producing large sise
die-castings or large dimension sheet and other facilities essentially
only of military value.
The equipment allowed to remain should be of types not directly
usable in the aircraft industry and for other armament purposeS. Equip-
ment which has been used essentially to serve such industries should be
marked for elimination.
The resources left in Japan for rebuilding heavy equipment of the
type required in fabricating light metal alloys and the access to im-
ported equipment will determine the ease with which the industry can be
rebuilt.
3. Controls over imports of
alumina and of primary and
secondary aluminum, magnesium
and their alloys, and over selected
raw materials for their pro-
duction.
16 053 pm2 bu

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
-a1 -
Control over Japanese imports of the light metals and of the
rew materials required for their production is a necessary adjunct
to the elimination of light metals mamufacture in Japan.
It seems possible that sufficient supplies of light metals will
be available in Japan at the end of the war to meet legitimate re-
quirements for sometime in lieu of imports. Such stocks, in what-
ever form found or wherever located, should be kept under control
and released at the same rate at which imports would be allowed.
Scrap metal should be taken into consideration in determining
the amount of metal to be made available. Some virgin metal vill.
however, be required to "sweeten" the secondary metal for certain
usos.
As an additional check on light metals production, importation
of bauxite should not be permitted. Because of the varied uses of
dolomite and magnesite, aside from production of magnesium metal.
it does not seem practicable to control their import.
Import controls should extend to semi-fabricated products and
importation should be forbidden of any type whose production in
Japan is not allowed. It should not, however, be necessary to control
importation of finished light metal products for civilian use.
le oss paa nobu

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
- 22 -
PART III - APPENDICES
1. Japanese Alumina Plants
2. Japanese Aluminum Plants
3. Japanese Magnesium Plants
4. Japanese Light Metals Fabricating Plants
5. Japanese Production, Exports and Imports of Aluminum
6. Japanese Production, Exports and Imports of Magnesium
7. Japanese Imports, Requirements and Stockpiles of Bauxite
8. Chemical Composition of Some Naturally Occurring Aluminous Raw
Materials
9. Production Processes Used in the Japanese Light Metals Industries
10. Employment and Production Rates in the Light Metals Industry of the
United States, 1944
1l. Japanese Exports of Aluminim Mamufactures
.1e 058 mmeb

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX 1
Alumina Plants in Japan Proper
Aluminum
Production
Estimated
Type of
at
Capacity
Company
Plant Location
Plant
Same Plant
m.t./yr.
HONSHU
Asada (Shikawa) Kagaku K.K.
Hyogo-ken, Shikawa-shi
A
No
3,000
Asano Cement K.K.
Hiroshima-ken, Mihara-shi, Itozaki-
B
No
64,000
machi #5310
Kokusan Keikinzoku K.K.
Iwate-ken, Kurosawajiri-shi
A
No
20,000
Nichiman Aruminiumu K.K.
Toyama-ken, Higashi Iwase-machi
A
Yes
20,000
Nippon Keikinzoku K.K.
Shizuoka-ken, Shimizu-shi
C
No
100,000
Nippon Soda K.K.
Toyama-ken, Takaoka-shi
A or C
Yes
14,000
23
Nitto Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Aomori-ken, Hachinohe-shi
A or C
Yes
4,000
Onoda Cement K.K.
Yamaguchi-ken, Asa-gun, Onoda-machi
B
No
100,000
Showa Denko Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Kanagawa-ken, Yokohama-shi, Shin
A
No
16,000
Koyasu
18
11
Nagano-ken, Shinano Omachi-shi
A or C
Yes
8,000
KYUSHU
Nippon Aruminiumu K.K.
Fukuoka-ken, Kurosaki-mura
C
No
24,000
Toyo Aruminiumu K.K.
Fukuoka-ken, liiike-shi
C
No
36,000
SHIKOKU
Sumitomo Aruminiumu K.K.
Ehime-ken, Niihama-shi
A
Yes
20,000
429,000
TOTAL
Type of Plant:
052 p2z b.u
A. Former Bayer plant converted to use non-bauxitic raw materials.
B. Former cement plant converted to produce alumina from non-bauxitic raw materials.
C. Unchanged Bayer plant.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIX 2
Aluminum Plants in Japan Proper
Alumina
Production
Estimated
at
Capacity
Company
Location
Same Plant
m.t./yr.
HONSHU
Kokusan Keikinzoku K.K.
Toyama-ken, Kaminii Kawa-gun, Sasazu-mura
No
6,000
Nasu Aruminiumu K.K.
Tokyo, Honjo-ku, Kamezawa-cho, 1-chome 39
No
1,500
Nichiman Aruminiumu (Showa Denkb)
Toyama-ken, Higashé Iwase-machi
Yes
8,000
n
N
n
Fukushima-ken, Koriyama-shi
No
10,000
Nippon Keikinzoku
Shizuoka-ken, Kambara-shi
No
40,000
n
n
Niigata-ken, Nakakambara-gun, Toyano-mura
No
30,000
24
Nippon Soda K.K.
Toyama-ken, Takaoka-shi, Mukono-machi
Yes
8,000
Nitto Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Aomori-ken, Hachinohe-shi, Konakano-cho
Yes
4,000
Osaka Yogyo Cement K.K.
Osaka
No
2,000
Showa Denkb Kakagu Kogyo K.K.
Nagano-ken, Sninano Omachi-shi
Yes
12,000
n
n
n
n
Fukushima-ken, Yama-gun, Kitakata-machi
No
?
Toyo Aruminiumiu (Ibigawa Denko)
Gifu-ken, Ogaki-shi
No
6,000
SHIKOKU
Sumitomo Aruminiumu K.K.
Ehime-ken, Niinama-shi
Yes
20,000
Total
147,500

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX 3
Magnesium Plants in Japan Proper
Estimated
1
Raw
Capacity
Company
Plant Location
Process
Material
m.t./yr.
Asahi Denko Kogyo K.K.
Tokyo, Arakawa-ku, Ogu-cho 9-chome
Electrolysis
Magnesite
1,500
Kanto Denkb Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Gumma-ken, Shibukawa-shi
Electrolysis
Lagnesite
500
Nippon Magnesium K.K.
Tokyo, Itabashi-ku, Shimurachogo-cho
?
Magnesite
650
Nippon Magnesium K.K.
Toyama-ken, Kaminii Kawa-gun,
?
?
650
Osawano-machi, near Sasazu-mura
Nippon Soda K.K.
Toyama-ken, Higashi Iwase-machi
Electrolysis Sea water
600
Riken Kinzoku K.K.
=Nichiman Magnesium K.K.,
Yamaguchi-ken, Ube-shi
Electrolysis Sea water &
5,000
=Übe Chisso K.K.
magnesite
Shinetsu Kagaku K.K.
Niigata-ken, Naoetsu-shi, Kuroi
Electrolysis Sea water
500
25
Total
9,400
1 All of the known plants are located on Honshu.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.91)
-26-
APPENDIX 4
Lajor Japanese Aluminum Alloy
Sneet Rolling Mille
Company
Plant Location
Furukawa Electrical Industry Co.
Tocnigi-ken, Kamitsuga-gun, Nikko-machi,
Kiyotaki
!!
11
11
Hyogo-ken, Amagasaki-shi (2 plants?)
Kobe Steel Horks
Yamaguchi-ken, Chofu
Kyushu Island, Moji
Nippon Aluminum Works
Osaka
Sumitomc Metal Industry Co.
Osake
n
11
11
Nagoya
1.n 058 p30 b

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
APPENDIX 5
Japanese Production, Imports and Exports of Aluminum
(metric tons)
21
Production
Imports
Exports
Apparent Consumption
Ingot &
Slabs
Scrap
Total
Annual
Average
1926
None
7,431
116
7,547
7,547
1927
n
5,825
54
5,879
5,879
8,659
1928
n
9,167
170
9,337
17
9,320
1929
n
11,893
408
12,301
411
11,890
1930
10,965
743
11,708
696
11,012
1931
n
2,788
2,426
5,214
211
5,003
7,830
1932
4,810
3,846
8,641
336
8,305
1933
n
3,606
4,672
3,278
240
6,998
1934
664
5,342
5,604
10,946
348
11,262
1935
4,400
9,774
4,305
2山,079
1,018
17,461
16,825
1936
7,000
9,011
1,695
10,706
872
16,834
1937
10,500
> 8,100
24,000
12,055
811
21,74山
1938
17,100
20,000
<8,000
27,946
917
44,129
1939
23,000
20,000
<8,000
28,070
51,070
31,945
1940
35,000(est)1,900
<500
2,420
32,580
1941
70,000)
1942
110,000)
1943
140,000)
See explanation at bottom
1944
106,000)
of next page regarding
1945
6,500)
these figures.
(lst quarter)
1
Some discrepancies in "Total" column are due to necessity of using data
from two or more sources.
2
Includes crude metal, primary shapes and scrap, but not manufactures.
14 052 pa1 

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
- 28 -
APPENDIX 5 (Cont'd)
Sources of Data in Appendix 5
Data for years before 1941:
1. Aluminum Nenkan-Magnesium Soran (1939).
2. Official data of exporting countries.
3. Annual and Montily Returns of the Foreign Trade of Japan.
4. Japan-Manchukuo Yearbook (1939).
5. The Industrial Chemist, 1941.
6. Japan Trade Studies - Special Industry Analysis No. 2 - Aluminum -
Jan. 1945.
7. Kogyo Nenkan (1938).
8. American Consular Report, "The Japanese Aluminum Industry", Osaka,
Japan, Sept. 30, 1939.
9. Kagaku Kogyo Nenkan (1938).
Production data for l941 and after:
Prince Higashi-Kuni in a report to the Japanese Diet (quoted in
Domei radio broadcast, Sept. 5, 1945) stated that Japanese aluminum pro-
duction rose from a pre-war figure of 70,000 tons (assumed to be for 1941)
to a maximum of 140,000 tons in 1943. According to the same source, alu-
minum output decreased after 1943 due to lack of bauxite, and only 6,500
tons were produced in the first quarter of 1945. Production for 1942 and
1944 has been estimated by extrapolation from the curve obtained by
plotting reported data for 1941, 1943 and 1945.
10 58 paa bu

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
APPENDIX 6
Japanese Production, Imports and Exports of Magnesium
(metric tons)
Apparent
Year
Production
Imports
Exports
Consumption
1930
0
1931
2
8
10
1932
23
13
36
1933
104
山
118
1934
141
1
4
138
1935
271
0
74
197
1936
568
n.a.
237
331
1937
1,200
n.a.
12
1938
1,500
692 a/ Less than 1
1939
2,000
2
1940
4,000
2
a
Export from U.S. only.
Sources: Kogyo Nenkan (1938) p. 528.
"Japanese-Puppet Economic Activities", Dec. l944, published by
Kuomintang Economic Service, Chungking.
Mineral Industry during 1940, p. 389.
BFDC compilation.
2000

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
APPENDIX 7
Japanese Imports, Requirements and Stockpiles
of Bauxite
(metric tons)
a/
Imports
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Netherlands East Indies
50
8,774
31,358
120,078196,948262,453
Malaya
355
1,123
13,241
56,643
85,736
46,033
Greece
5,250
8,000
7,300
15,000
23,959
n.a.
British India
4,481
5,327
23,748
n.a.
n..
n..
Kandated Islands
20,000
39,000
43,000
10,136
23,224
76,147
211,721 345,643 351,486
Requirements
17,600
28,000
42,000
63,400 92,000 140,000
c/
Apparent stockpile
34,147
177,468 431,111 642,597
at end of year
a/
Sources:
1. The Commodity Position of Malaysia-Bauxite-Prepared by
U. S. Tariff Commission for Foreign Economic Administration,
Feb. 1944.
2. Japanese Trade Studies. Special Industry Analysis No. 2 -
Aluminum, Prepared by U. S. Tariff Commission, Jan. 1945.
3. American Consular Report #65, "The Projected Reorganization of
Japan's Aluminum Industry", Donald W. Lamm, Tokyo, Dec. 1, 1941.
b
Calculated on basis of aluminum production figures in Appendix 5 and
average requirement of 4 tons of bauxite for 1 ton of aluminum.
c
Apparent deficit in 1935 and 1936 presumably made up by use of non-
bauxitio raw materials, or by unreported imports of bauxite. No
allowance for use of non-bauxitic raw materials nor for other uses
of bauxite made in calculating stockpiles for subsequent years.
10 0s pse 

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
-31-
APPENDIX 8
Chemical Composition of Some Naturally
Occurring Aluminous Raw Materials
(percent by veight)
Composition of Some Typical Bauxites
France
Guiana
United States
11203
57-60
56-61
56-59
SiO2
3-5
1-3
5-12
Fe2O3
20-25
Variable
Low
Ign. loss
11-13
29-31
27-30
23
Composition of Clays Used by Tennessee Valley Authority
a Studies on Extraction of Alumina from Clays by Lime-Sinter-Soda-Leach Process
Ross Clay 1
Ross Clay 2
Rengold Clay
A12O3
38.2
35.9
37.5
SiO2
43.8
42.2
44.9
Fe203
0.6
1.2
0.9
Ti02
2.7
2.6
2.9
0.3
2.8
0.3
CaO
0.3
0.1
Mg0
1山.2
15.3
13.5
Ign. loss
1
Source: Haywara, An Outline of Metallurgical Practice, 2nd ed. (1940),
D. Van Nostrand Co.
Lime-Sinter odification of the Pedersen Process, by Copson,
Walthall & Hignett, War Metallurgy ommittee, Serial No. W-103,
Apr. 28, 1944.
3/ All three samples from Holly Springs geological formation, Carroll Co.,
Western Tennessee.
1a 05a 93e be

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
-32-
APPEIDIX 8 (Cont'd)
Composition of Japanese Clays
(percent)
3
4
51
Roseki Clay
Kibushi Clay
Gairome Clay (washed)
A12O3
48.16
34.02
33.84
S1O2
43.30
48.02
52.20
F0203
0.26
1.93
1.81
Caō
0.26
0.54
0.43
MgO
0.01
0.17
0.03
K2O,Na2O
1.52
0.54
0.70
Ign. loss
8.02
15.35
11.63
FEA report,
Source: /FE-I21, Japanese Possibilities of Making Aluminum from
Clay.
mercially for ceramic purposes.
3
From Okayama-ken, Wake-gun, Mitsuishi-mura.
From Aichi-ken, Higashi Kasugai-gun, Seto-mura.
5 From Gifu-ken, Toki-gun, Tokitsu-mura.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
APPENDIX 8 (Cont'd)
Composition of Typical Clays from Manchuria,
Korea and Occupied China
Location
Type of Clay
A12O_3
S1O2
Fe203
T102
Ign. Loss
Manchuria
Fuchow
Very hard
72.80
8.58
1.66
2.30
14.20
Hard
54.50
28.30
2.29
2.92
15.00
Soft
39.40
44.90
1.92
2.80
14.80
Kinchow
Very hard
62.90
20.66
2.62
2.05
14.31
Hard
40.40
42.50
1.68
1.65
14.60
Honkei
Very hard
72.12
3.74
9.24
1.84
13.96
Hard
54.61
15.34
14.65
1.34
13.92
Soft
38.28
43.30
3.85
1.50
14.64
Tentai
Very hard
60.70
14.50
10.80
2.00
13.40
Hard
48.80
35.70
15.10
1.80
14.80
Soft
40.47
4.01
0.93
1.78
13.95
Korea
Location unknown
Kaolin
58.50 24.00
0.80
2.50
13.40
China
Kailan, North China Very hard
71.12
12.30
1.00
2.90
15.50
Hard
62.60
21.80
1.10
2.80
14.30
Soft
50.30
26.70
1.60
2.50
14.70
Poshan, Shantung
Very hard
70.20
11.00
1.43
2.80
14.50
Hard
54.80
17.68
10.59
2.30
14.53
Soft
40.80
41.05
1.09
2.71
1山.11
16 052 pS. 

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
-34-
APPENDIX 8 (Cont'd)
1
Analyses of Korean Alunites
Source
Seizan
Gyokubaizan 1
Gyokubaizan 2
Yozan
Kashatori
A12O3
31.00
36.31
37.22
36.07
35.77
SiO2
16.35
2.96
1.38
1.17
5.44
FeO & Fe2O3
0.55
0.52
CaO
0.44
Trace
0.27
Mgo
Trace
Trace
0.17
K2O
6.52
9.15
9.68
9.65
7.96
Na2C
1.19
0.78
1.05
2.09
1.08
803
32.31
36.82
38.02
38.47
37:17
H2O
12.54
12.87
13.29
12.15
12.43
Ign. loss
1 Source:
Tyosen Kogyo, Sept. 1938.
10 053 paa bu

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
-35-
APPENDIX 9
Production Processes Used in the Japanese
Light Metals Industries
ALUMINA
The production of aluminum takes place in two steps: (1) produc-
tion of highly purified alumina (aluminum oxide, Al2O3) from the bauxite
or other aluminous ore, followed by (2) electrolytic reduction of the
alumina to aluminum metal. These two stages are entirely independent
and are frequently carried out at widely separated plants.
In the electrolytic reduction step, impurities such as silica or
iron oxides present in the alumina will also be reduced and will contam-
inate the metal. It is consequently essential that alumina of high
quality be furnished to the reduction plants. The standard Bayer process
1
produces satisfactory alumina only from high grade bauxite which is low
in silica. Special methods have been proposed or developed for producing
alumina of acceptable grade from aluminous raw materialsl/ containing
larger amounts of silica (or other impurities). Certain of these pro-
cesses, believed to be of special interest to the Japanese, are here des-
2/
cribed, in addition to the Bayer prccess.
1. The Bayer process. The ground (and usually dried) bauxite is
heated under pressure ith a caustic soda solution which converts the
1
See Appendix 8 for chemical composition of some typical aluminous raw
materials.
2/ For further details of tnese processes see:
FEA repart,-l21, Japanese Possibilities of Making Aluminum from Clay, June 1944.
FEA
,E0-165, An Analysis of Aluminum Industry Processes, Sept. 1943.
War Metallurgy Committee Research Report W-l03, The Extraction of
Alumina from Clays by the Lime-Sinter odification of the Pedersen
Process, prepared by TVA and issued by the National Academy of
Sciences, Apr. 28, 1944.
The Aluminum Industry: Vol. II, Aluminum and its Production, by
Edwards, Frary and Jeffries.
1€ 058 89 

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
aluminum oxide to soluble sodium aluminate. This solution is filtered
from the "red mud" containing the bulk of the impurities. The clarified
solution is somewhat diluted witn water, and aluminum hydroxide is pre-
cipitated by prolonged agitation with aluminum hydroxide from a previous
batch. The hydroxide is settled, filtered and calcined in a rotary kiln
to produce alumina.
Typical material requirements per metric ton of calcined alumina
produced by the Bayer process are:
Bauxite
2 m.t.
Caustic soda make-up
55 kg.
Electric power
270 kwh.
Coal for drying and calcining 1.5 to 2.5 m.t.
2. Lime sinter-soda leacn process. It is believed that this is
the non-Bayer process most widely used by the Japanese. Clay is sintered
with about twice its weight of high grade limestone to convert the alumina
to calcium aluminate and the silica to calcium silicate. The resulting
sinter falls to a powder on cooling and is then leached with soda ash
solution, yielding a solution of sodium aluminate. Aluminum hydroxide
is recovered from the solution by slow treatment with carbon dioxide gas
and is then further treated as in the Bayer method.
In addition to equipment found in standard Bayer plants, this pro-
cess requires rotary kilns such as are used in cement plants. It seems
quite certain that some excess kiln capacity in Japanese cement plants
has been converted to alumina production. The sinter obtained in this
10 058 p40. bu

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
-37-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont(d)
process can be stored and transported witnout deterioration and consequently
the sinter and leach steps can be carried out at separate locations if
desired.
Raw material requirements,per metric ton of.alumina produced by
1
this process, are approximately as follows:
Clay (dry basis)
about 3.2 m.t., depending on camposition
Limestone
6.6 m.t.
Soda ash make-up
42 kg.
Fuel
70 million B.T.U.
3. Lime-soda sinter. The clay is sintered with both limestone
and soda ash in a.rotary kiln, converting the silica to calcium silicate
and the alumina to sodium aluminate. The sodium aluminate is leached
from the ground sinter by water and tne solution further treated as in the
lime sinter-soda leach process. The sinter produced by this method re-
quires grinding, deteriorates rapidly in moist air and is not suitable
for storage or shipment.
4. Pedersen process. The clay or shale is smelted with iron ore,
coke and limestone to produce a molten slag consisting principally of
calcium aluminate, and, as a by-product, high grade, low-sulfur pig iron.
The cooled and ground slag is leached with soda ash solution, and the
solution is further treated as in the lime sinter-soda leach process.
This process is believed to be used in a Japanese plant in Korea.
5. Ferrosilicon process (referred to by the Japanese as the
Uchino process). Clay or shale is mixed with coke, limestone and iron ore
and charged into an electric-arc furnace where ferrosilicon and calcium
10 062 per D

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
-38 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
aluminate are formed. The calcium aluminate is converted to sodium
aluminate by leaching with soda ash solution.
In the Suzuki modification of this process, the cnarge consists
of aluminous shale, coke, and scrap or pig iron. On neating in an electric
furnace, ferrosilicon and alumina are formed. The ferrosilicon is sepa-
rated magnetically and the alumina freed from the remaining iron by
treatment with chlorine. In both of these modifications, power costs are
high and a market must be available for the ferrosilicon formed. Equip-
ment of special design is also required. One of tnese processes is ap-
parently in use at the Fushun, Manchuria alumina plant.
6. Alunite processes. Several processes proposed or used by the
Japanese are based on alunite, a naturally occurring potassium alum (see
Appendix 8). It is probable that these processes have been abandoned
in favor of those based on clay or shale, partly because of the lack of
uniformity and poor quality of much of the available alunite. In the
processes based on alunite, an attempt is always made to recover the potas-
sium in a form usable as a potash fertilizer.
In the Tanaka process (also called the Showa sodium process),
crushed and dried alunite is suspended in water and treated witn ammonia.
Potassium sulfate and ammonium sulfate are recovered from the solution
for fertilizer use. Alumina and silica constitute the solid residue
from which the alumina is recovered by treatment with sodium hydroxide
olution, followed by precipitation.
10 058 p48 bu

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
- 39 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
In the Okasasa or Showa potassium process, the alunite suspension
is treated with potassium hydroxide solution yielding a solution con-
taining potassium sulfate and potassium aluminate from which both potas-
sium sulfate and alumina are separated.
In the Sumitomo process, the crushed and dried alunite is dis-
solved in sulfuric acid, and aluminum hydroxide is then precipitated with
ammonia and separated. The clarified solution yields potassium and am-
monium sulfates.
The Asada process is also a sulfuric acid procedure, yielding
aluminum sulfate which is decomposed in a muffle furnace to alumina and
sulfur trioxide.
The acid processes require special equipment for handling the cor-
rosive solutions. They are not adaptable to existing equipment in Bayer
plants.
ALUHINUM
Regardless of the aluminum ore used or the procedure followed in
obtaining alumina from it, all aluminum metal today is produced by passing
an electric current through molten cryolite (sodium aluminum fluoride,
Na3AlF6) in which aluaina is dissolved. The alumina is decomposed into
aluminum metal and oxygen. The reaction takes place in a carbon-lined
steel cell which acts as the cathode. olten aluminum collects at the
bottom of the cell and is tapoed off periodically and poured into ingot
molds.
18 052 2 b

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
- 40 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
Oxygen collects at the carbon anodes and, because of the high
temperatures required in the process, combines with the carbon, forming
carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. About 0.6 to 0.7 ton of carbon is
consumed per ton of aluminum metal produced:
The cell may be operated with a number of pre-baked electrodes
or with a single Soderberg electrode in which a continuously fed paste
consisting of carbon and suitable binder is fed into the electrode tube
and baked. by the heat of the bath. Most Japanese plants are designed for
Soderberg electrodes.
If pre-baked electrodes are used, they may be purchased from a
company specializing in this work or they may be formed and baked at the
aluminum plant. If Soderberg electrodes are used, the paste is always
mixed at the aluminum plant. Raw materials in both cases are pitch coke,
petroleum coke or other source of high grade carbon reasonably free from
mineral impurities, and binder.
Power requirements are high in production of aluminum, being around
10 kwh. per pound of aluminum, or about 22,o00 kwh. per metric ton. As
in all electrolytic processes, direct current is necessary, and aluminum
plants thus usually require equipment to convert the alternating to
direct current.
Consumption of cryolite is about O.1 lb. per pound of metal pro-
 duced. Native cryolite is found in commercial quantities only in one
locality, Ivigtut, Greenland. However, synthetic cryolite may be made
from alumina and suitable fluoride salts and this is frequently done at
alumina plants
1€ 802 p44 bu

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
-41-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'a)
NAGNESIUM
Several independent processes for magnesium production are in
commercial use and all are known to or in use by the Japanese. These
processes are: (1) electrolytic decomposition of fused magnesium
chloride derived from brines, see water, dolomite or magnesite; (2)
reduction of calcined dolomite with ferrosilicon in a heated retort
(Pidgeon process); and (3) reduction of magnesium oxide (obtained
from brines or magnesite) with coke, followed by rapid cooling of the
magnesium powder produced in a stream of hydrogen or natural gas
(Hansgirg or Radenthein process).
1. The electrolytic process. This is the oldest of the com
mercial processes and is the most widely used method. As in the
electrolytic production of aluminum, the operation takes place in
two steps - preparation of the cell feed, followed by electrolytic
decomposition. These two steps are usually carried out at one plant.
Basis of the cell feed is properly dried magnesium chloride to
which sodium chloride and calcium chloride may be added as needed.
The magnesium chloride may be prepared by any of the following methods:
a. From brines and bitterns, by evaporation, careful separation
of the magnesium chloride from sodium chloride and other salts, and
drying.
b. From sea water by first adding lime to precipitate magnesium
hydroxide; this is dissolved in hydrochloric acid to yield magnesium
chloride, which is evaporated and dried.
c. From calcined dolomite by a wet process involving conversion
of the lime to calcium carbonate and the magnesia to magnesium chloride.
The calcined dolomite, suspended in water, is first treated with
ammonium chloride, yielding calcium
16 088 45 

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
-42 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
chloride and magnesium hydroxide and liberating ammonia. Carbon diaxide
is then passed into the mixture, precipitating calcium carbonate. The
resulting solution of magnesium chloride is evaporated and dried.
d. From any suitable source of magnesia (e.g., magnesite) by a
dry process involving chlorination of heated briquettes of calcined mag-.
nesia and coke.
Electrolysis of fused magnesium chloride to yield magnesium metal
is carried out on the same basic principles as in the electrolytic pro-
duction of aluminum. Closed cells are used because chlorine is given off
at the anodes. The chlorine is recovered and is available for reuse if
needed in the process or is sold as by-product. The metal floats on the
cell bath instead of sinking to the bottom. The anodes used are of the
same composition as in the aluminum industry, but consumption is much
smaller, about O.1 ton per ton of metal produced.
2. The ferrosilicon (Pidgeon) process. In this basically simple
process, calcined and ground dolomite is mixed and briquetted with ground
ferrosilicon and heated under strong vacum in a simple steel tube retort
in a gas or oil-fired furnace. Metallic magnesium condenses in the cool
end of the retort and is removed after a heating period of about ten
hours, ready for remelting and casting.
At present prices of ferrosilicon in the United States, the Pidgeon
process is apparently unable to compete on a cost basis with the most ef-
ficient electrolytic plants. However, the method has distinct advantages
for emergency production where costs are of secondary interest. Pidgeon
16. 053. P4Q0

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
APPDDIX 9 (Cont'd)
process plants can be quickly constructed, relatively small scattered
units are feasible, and the plants can be readily stopped, kept in stand-
by condition and restarted.
3. The carbothermic (Hansgirg or Radenthein) process. A in the
Pidgeon process, magnesium oxide is reduced to metallic magnesium by &
furnace process.
Relatively pure magnesium oxide prepared by calcining magnesite
or by treatment of brines, is ground and briquetted with ground coke, with
or without a binder. The dried briquettes are charged into an electric
furnace operated at a temperature of around 20o0c where the magnesium
oxide and coke react to produce magnesium vapor and carbon monoxide gas.
The reaction products must be cooled very rapidly to prevent reversal of
the reaction; this is accomplished by injecting a stream of inert gas
(hydrogen or natural gas) into the electric furnace. The magnesium con-
denses as a fine powder (somewhat contaminated with carbon) which must
be sprayed with oil, briquetted and dried. The briquettes are then
heated at about l000℃ in a retort under vacuum. The magnesium is vaporised
in the hot section of the retort and crystallizes in the chilled top, from
which it is periodically removed and melted for casting into molds.
No data are available for comparing plant investment or metal
production costs with the other processes described. Close technological
control is necessary because of the operational hasards involved.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
-44-
APPENDIX 10
Employment and Production Rate in U.S Light Metals Industry
Emplovment 1/
January 1944
Decsmber 1944
Alumimm
Bauxite mining, domestic
2,500
2,200
Alumina plants
7,000
4,800
Reduction works
15,000
9,400
Secondary smelters
3,000
2,700
Foundries
70,000
49,500
Sheet and foil mills
20,000
16,300
Forge shops
15,000
10,000
Other plants
17.000
12.000
Total aluminum
149,500
106,900
Magnesium
Ingot plants
18,000
5,100
Foundries
29,000
22,200
Other plants
2.000
1.600
Total magnesium
49,000
28,700
Total light metals
198,500
135,600
Production Rates
January 1944
Docember 1944
Total pro-
Tons per
Total pro-
Tons per
duction,
worker
duction,
worker
m.t。
per year
mate
par_year
Alumimum ingots, primary 2/
76,894
41.94
42,227
35.7.6
Alumimm ingots, secondary 2/
19,248
87.7
22,680
100.8
Magnesium ingots, primary 37 18,565
12.4
3,861
9.1
1
Employment data froy estimates by Aluminum and Magnesium Division,
War Production Board.
2
From data reported by War Production Board.
3
From data reported by Defense Plant Corporation.
Employment in both alumina and aluminum plants used in calculating
tons of primary aluminum per worker.
18 052 p48 bu

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
APPENDIX 11
Japanese Exports of Aluminum Manufactures
by Values
Year
Aluminum Ware
Aluminum Sheet
Total
1000 yen
1000 yen
1000 yen
1929
85.6
482.6
568.2
1930
706.6
744.3
1,450.9
1931
342.0
222.6
564.6
1932
410.5
478.5
889.0
1933
1,126.9
376.5
1,503.4
1934
1,930.7
534.2
2,464.9
1935
1,660.9
1,653.7
3,314.6
1936
1,727.5
1,301.1
3,028.6
Source: The Mining Magazine, London, Vol. 59, #2, p. 83 (1938).
16 58 6 mb 1m01

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
JS-37
COMNF IDENT IAL
Copp o217
POREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Eneny Branch
ADMDLISTRATION OF PRODUCT ION PROORANS DN JAPAN
Special attention is called to the fact that this document
was substantially completed prior to the surrender of Japan.
Persons using this document are cautioned that its recom-
mendations were written prior to the acceptance of the
Potsdam Declaration and the Instrument of Surrender. All
recommendations gust, accordingly, be critically examined
in the light of current U.S. palicy.
CONFIDENTIL
July 1945
16.041 Cever

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
COMF IDENT YAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PARTI
Introduction and Summary of Recommendations
Pare
I. Introduotion
1
II. Summary of Recommendations
2
A. Methods of exercising economic controls
2
B. Extent of application of economic controls
2
C. Recommendation concerning the utilisation of
Japanese control agencies and regulations
2
D. Recommendations concerning the utilization of
Japanese personnel
444
E. Recommendations concerning reporting
F. Recumendation concerning sabotage
G. Suggestions concerning Military Government's
organisation for the administration of pro-
duction programs
5
PART II
Descriptive Analysis of Japan's Wartime
Economic Controls
I. Introduction
5
7
II. Controls at the National Level
A. Basic authority for economic controls
7
B. Government Ministries and Bureaus exercising
economic controls
8
C. Quasi-governmental Organizations controlling
industry
12
1. Control Societies and Control Associations
12
2. Munitions Companies
16
3. National Policy Companies
18
4. Eidan or Corporations
19
III. Controls at the Regional Level
23
IV. Controls at the Prefectural and Municipal Level
25
CONFIDENTIAL
1n 041 ps of 144 bu 00

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Table of Contents - continued
PART III
RECOMMENDATIONS
Pare
I. Military Government's Concern in the Adminis-
28
tration of Production Programs
II. The General Situation which will confront Military
29
Government in Japan
30
III. Mothods for Bxercising Economic Controls
30
A. Priorities
31
B. Allocations
31
C. Credits
IV. Reconmendations Concerning the Utilisation of
Japanese Control Agencies and Control Regula-
32
tions.
33
A. General Recommendations
B. Utilisation of Japanese Control Agencies at
34
the National Level
C.
Utilisation of Japanese Control Agencies at
34
the Regional and Local Levels
V. Recommendations Concerning the Utilization of
36
Japanese Personnel
VI. Recommendations Concerning the Protection of
37
Records, Plants, etc.
37
VII. Recommendations Concerning Reporting
VIII. Recommendation Concerning Sabotage and the
39
Enfarcement of Military Government's Control
IX. Suggestions Concerning Military Government's
Organisation for the Administration of Produo-
39
tion Programs
39
A. Central Organization
41
B. Regional and Prefectural Organization
16 041 p2 bu

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
-111-
Table of Contente - continued
APPEIDICES
Pase
I. Administration Regions of Japan - 1945
42
II. National Mobilisation Law of Japan
43
III. Major Provisions of the Munitions Company Act
of October 28, 1943
57
IV. Activities of the Munitions Superintendence
60
Bureau of the Ministry of Munitions
V. Major Industries Organization Ordinance
64
VI. Imperial Ordinance Covering Amendments to the
Essential Industries Organisation Law - 1945
78
VII. Transfer of Administrative Authority Law
81
VIII. Metal Industry Control Society
82
X. Control Regulations Concerning Control Associa-
85
tion of Hokkai Warehouse Enterprises
X. Electric Engineering Control Society in Japan
89
XI. Electric Machine Control Society
91
XII. Abstract of Regulations Governing the Bstablish-
96
ment of a Warehouse Control Society
XIII. Control of Electrical Engineering Industries
98
IIV. Abstract of Regulations on Lumber and Charcoal
100
Produotion
IV. Pit Wood Control Association
101
IVI. Regulatins of the Woolen Goods Control Society
102
IVII. The Control Regulations of the Japan Bicyole
107
Control Society
IVIII. Essential Materials Supervision Corporation Law
.111
XIX. Regulations of Small Scale Business Control
113
Society
10.041.P3.b

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
- iv -
Table of Contente - continped
APPENDICES - continued
XX. Middle and Small Soale Industries
117
XXI. Export Associations
121
XXII. Regulations Governing Special Responsibilities in
Eeeping Safe the Miscellaneous Articles for Export,
a of March 5, 1942
122
XXIII. The Commodity Link Systen in Japan
124
XXIV. The Development of the Commodity Link System
126
in Japan
XXV. The Mational Polioy Companies of Japan - 1943
128

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
PARTI
INTRODUCT ION AND SUMARY OF RECOIDIENDATIONS
I. Introduction
It is the purpose of this guide to recommend the general
administrative and control measures to be applied to carry out
the production programs with which M. G. will be concerned in
Japan. The term "Administration of Production Programs" as
used in this guide is defined as covering all activities involved
in the processing of supplies from raw materials to the finished
product, but does not include such portions of specific industries
as normally do not utilise industrial processes such as agriculture
and fisheries with respect to which activities special guides have
been prepared. The objectives of these production programs have
been outlined in Part III, Section 1 below. Background information
desoriptive of the Japanese controls for the administration of
their war-time economy has been presented in Part II. Illustrative
material has been provided in the Appendices. The recommendations
presented summarily below have been set forth in more detail with
the reasons therefor in Part III. More specific recommendations
with respect to particular industries may in some cases be found
in the respective industry guides.
In drawing up the recommendations it was assumed that the
occupation of Japan would occur on & progressive basis until all
or a major portion of the main islands would be brought under
Military Government. Moreover it was assumed that the occupation
would continue long enough to give rise to the necessity for M.G.
to control the export and import of essential commodities for
various purposes. Furthermore, as this guide is concerned with
the administration of production controls, therefore it is con-
sidered necessary to assume that M.G. may have to concern itself
with programming and allocating the flow of all vital materials
needed to produce the categories of priority goods set forth in
Part III, Section 1. Should the oscupation of Japan be only
partial or of short duration or should other conditions or policy
directives determine that M.G. control of production be more
limited than is bere implied, modifications or utilisation of
portions of the recommendations which follow will readily suggest
themselves to those using the guide in their planning. In addition
it should be pointed out that this guide should be used in con-
junction with the respective industry guides which may have mare
detailed recommendations as to the control of such industries as
it may be decided M.3. shall be directly concerned with in
accordance with policy directives. This guide, in short, aims
to set the over-all adninistration framework within which M.3.
can operate, either in a supervisory capacity or directly, such
production controls as policy directives and operational con-
ditions and problems shall determine in the future.
CONFIDENTIAL
16 041 p5 u

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
II. Summary of Recommendations
A. Methods for exmrcisins economic controls
1. To assure the maintenance of priority production
schedules with which M.3. is conoerned, as set
forth in Part III, Section 1, M.3. should estab-
lish supervisory administrative controls over
the utilisation and movement of required raw and
semi-finished materials in short supply by a co-
ordinated application of the following methods:
a. Establishment of priorities.
b. Granting of allocations in accordance with
priorities to specific plants, or organisations
of producers on a territorial basis.
c. Extension of credits where needed to enter-
prises or groups of producers receiving allooated
priority materials.
B. Extent of application of economic controls
As a general rule production of items not on M.G.'s
priority production programs should be allowed without allocations
providing:
Such production does not require utilisation of
facilities banned by M.G. because of their war-
potential character.
b. Does not require the utilisation of materials
in short supply.
c. Doss not impede the movement of priority raw
materials and end-products.
The Japanese officials should, however, be required to
report on such production in crder that surplus local production
of particular commodities in particular areas may be made avail-
able, insofar as transportation facilities permit, to deficit areas.
C. Recommendations concerning the utilisation of Japanese
control agencies and regulations.
1. At the outset of the occupation M.G. should main-
tain in force Japanese war-time control regulations
relating to control of industry and allocations
fuels, power, raw materials, semi-finished goods,
items for maintenance and repair subject to sub-
sequent directives as to amendments, abrogation, etc.
16 041 p6 bu

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
2. Likswise, M.G. at the outset should maintain
or re-establish local governmental agencies
responsible for the administration and enforce-
ment of such laws and regulations as are main-
tained in force and require afficials and es-
ployees of such agencies to continue with or
return to their functions.
3. The principles governinz the subsequent utili-
sation, abrogation, or modification of existing
Japanese controls should have two major objectives:
a. The re-direction of the flow of materials from
war production into civilian production channels
and the production of equipment for the restora-
tion and maintenance of essential transportation
and public utilities. War-time restrictions on
the utilisation of materials for such purposes
and to meet M.G. priority production programs
should be relamd.
b. In consonance with long-range U.S. policy ob-
jectives, M.G. should exmroise its controls
and reorganise or abolish Japanese agencies
in order to re-direct Japanese war-time economy
into a free enterprise, competitive economy in
which small and particularly medium-sised enter-
prises are unstirled by excessive government
controls or by cartels and combines.
4. The Munitions Ministry should be abolished and much
of its war-time functions and controls as are needed
to attain M.G. objectives should be transferred back
to the old line pre-war ministries.
5. The 400 odd designated munitions companies should
in principle be initially closed down particularly
those producing military items, and only those most
essential and most readily convertible to lines of
produotion in which M.G. is interested be allowed
subsequently to operate under direct or indirect
supervision.
6. M.G. should directly concern itself with the assets,
property and facilities of National Policy Companies
and all Eidan or public corporations. Insofar as
M.G. finds it useful to contimue the operation of any
of the facilities of government managed or owned
agencies and monopolies or utilise their organisation
and material M.G. may do so or order Japanese officials
to do so under its supervision.
16 048 77 bu

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
7. Because of the extent to which Japan has de-
centralised its controls operationally on a
regional basis it is recommended that M.G. sub-
ordinate prefectural controls :o regional con-
trols. For this purpose it is recommended that
the Regional Superintendents-General Orfices
be retained and utilised to gather information
on the requirement and supply situation in each
region and to allocate out regional allotments
of raw materials made by M.G.'s central pro-
duction control agency.
8. It is recommended that regional advisory councils
be formed representative equally of small, medium
and large sised producers of the area to advise
M.G. and Japanese officials.
It is recommended that the Control Societies and
Control Associations be abolished and their assets
and property be sequestered by M.G. to be dis-
posed of in accordance with subsequent directives.
The companies, organizations, and federations
which made up these organizations should be author-
ized to reorganize along pre-war types of commercial
and industrial organizations, known as Kumiai on a
voluntary, cooperative, and democratically organised
basis.
D. Reccmmendations concerning the utilisation of Japanese
personnel. Japanese personnel should be as fully
utilized as possible to carry out M.G. directives and
policies. Individuals, however, whose names appear
on purge lists, because their past records and acti-
vities make them unfit to hold responsible positions,
should not be appointed to such positions.
E. It is recommended that Japanese officials and such
governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, private
organizations and individuals as may be designated by
M.G. be required to submit initial reports and there-
after current reports covering the points set forth under
Part III, Section 7 in order to assist M.G. in drawing
up its production programs and determining priorities
and allocations.
F. It is recommended that M.G. place on an area or region as
a whole, as well as on designated Japanese officials
the responsibility for fulfilling production programs
and observing allocations and priority regulations. In
the event that sabotage is wide-spread in a particular
area it is recommended that its allotment of raw materials,
power, consumer goods, etc., be cut down until such sabotage
or misuse of materials ceases, or is reduced to isolated
cases which can be handled by direct and specific discip-
linary measures.
10 041 P8 bu

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
G. Suggestions concerning Military Government's organi-
sation for the administration of production programs.
It is suggested that M.G. set up at central bead-
quarters a production control agency to include a
planning and control unit and functional units to
carry out the functions set forth in Part III,
Section 9 A; and branch agencies in each of the
regions occupied with sub-branches in each occupied
prefecture to carry out the functions outlined in
Part III, 9 B.
PARTII
DEBCRIPTIVE ANALYS IS OF JAPAN'S WART IME ECONOMIC CONTROLS
I. Introduction
The descriptive analysis of Japan's wartime economic con-
trols which is set forth below relates to the situation which ob-
tained in June of 1945 and is based upon the latest information
available. Undoubtedly there will be additional changes in the
details of the administrative structure of these controls as the
war goes on, such as have occurred frequently in the past. How-
ever, the basic underlying pattern will probably remain the same
as existed at that time. The major trend at that time was the
decentralisation of national controls and their concentration in
the eight administrative regions into which the country has been
divided. The purpose of course was to prepare Japan against an
invasion by increasing the economic self-sufficiency and.adminis-
trative autonomy of each region in the event of the breakdown of
centralised administration at the national level which the disruption
of transportation and communications would entail.
As in the case of Germany prior to occupation, information
is lacking to disclose accurately and in detail just how Japan
administered its production programs, allocated raw materials,
established priorities, let and sub-let contracts, prepared re-
ports on inventories, supplies of raw materials, semi-finished
goods, etc. Presumably such information will become available
to M.G. after occupation insofar as the archives and records of
the various Ministries, the Munitions Companies, the Eidan, the
national and regional offices of the Control Associations, the
regional auperintendents-generals Offices in each of the eight
regions and the prefectural and metropolitan administrative offices
have not been destroyed. Access to such records will aid M.G.
materially in establishing its own production controls. It is
pertinant to note that the Government has stipulated that all
accounts and records of Control Societies and Associations and
Munitions Companies, presumably relating to fiscal matters,
materials and production should run according to the Government's
fiscal year namely from April 1 to March 30, thus establishing
16.04t po bu

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
a completely unified national system of accounting in harmony
with national production scheduling and the allocation of raw
materials on a quarterly basis in which the first quarter runs
from April through June.
Even with access to such detailed information it will not
be easy to grasp fully an understanding of how the Japanese military,
bureaucrats, business and industrial leaders have administered their
production programs. The layer upon layer of economic controls set
up by decree, law, ordinance and a plethora of subsequent administra-
tive regulations since the passage of the General Mobilisation Law of
1938 and the Extraordinary War Measures Bill of June 1945, accompanied
by frequent shifts in the administrative structure nationally and
locally are difficult to disentangle in order to discover exactly
where the lines of administrative authority lie as between the various
Ministries and their bureaus, the quasi-governmental agencies such
as the Control Societies and the Munitions Companies, the local
government bureaus and private commercial and industrial enterprises.
It was not until November of 1943, when the Munitions Ministry was
established, that the Japanese goverment succeeded in creating a
degree of centralised allocating of raw materials and the scheduling
of production programs which might be compared with the work of the
U.S. War Production Board. Even after that date, the old-line
ministries and agencies continued to guard jealously and to exercise
to a degree their former control functions causing confusion and in-
efficiency, and endless red tape. The contimuing struggle of the
big industrialists and Zaibatsu to retain control, working chiefly
through the control societies, various advisary councils and by
holding positions in the government itself at Ministerial level,
against the bureaucrats on the one hand and the military on the
other have resulted in a series of compromises which limit the full
application of the government's innumerable minute regulations.
These struggles have led to frequent administration reorganizations
and even cabinet changes. A study of the myriad of decrees, or-
dinances, regulations and ministerial orders can give only.a
general picture of how the Japanese actually controlled their
production programs. Japan is ruled more by men than by law and
the bureaucrats' network of regulations and red-tape can be readily
cut through at will by the military, financial and industrial
oligarchs. Nevertheless a study of the development and inter-
relation of the existing mechaniams and agencies of economic control
is necessary as a background upon which to base recommendations
for their suppression or utilization with or without modification
by M.G. to establish its controls over production. The rest of this
section will be devoted to a generalized description of the pre-
vailing mechanisms and agencies of control which obtained in Juns
1945. More detailed studies of how the controls were actually
applied in specific industries will be found in the respective
indus ry Guides.
16 041 p10 bu

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
II. Controls at the National Level
A. Basic authority for economio controlg*
The basic authority for the exercise of wartime economic
controls by the government until June 1945 found its origin in the
General National Mobilization Act of 1938 and as subsequently revised
(see Appendix II) together with the myriad of imperial decrees,
ordinances and ministerial orders and regulations which derive from
and implement that act. The controls were highly centralised until
June of 1943 when a trend toward decentralisation arose as it be-
came increasingly apparent that the war was going against Japan and
that the home-islands would be subject to increasing attack from
the air and possibly even invasion. At that time Japan was divided
into nine administrative regions (reduced to eight in Feb. 1945)
with the President of each region directly responsible to the
Premier. The Progressive loss of Guam, Saipan, the Philippines,
Iwo Jima and finally Okinawa speeded up the decentralisation trend
culminating in the passage on June 12, 1945 by an extraordinary
session of the Diet of an Extraordinary War Measures Bill which
gives the government power to nullify or revise provisions of the
General Mobilization Act and all subsequent legislation and to
issue new orders and regulations without check by the Diet. Through
the passage of this Bill, the Diet surrendered to the Government
virtually all of its power and presumably will not sit again until
after the war.
Within the Bill, "Government" was defined as including not
only the Ministries of the Cabinet but also the Offices of the
Superintendents - General, newly created two days before the pas-
sage of the Bill to head up the administration of the eight rogions
(see Appendix I and Chart). Thus, the basis was provided for
complete regional administrative autonomy over economic controls
in the event any region was completely cut off from contact with
the contral regime following invasion.
The broad scope of the Bill is stated in Article 1 (Tokyo
broadcast in English), "...the Government, when urgently necessary,
will take steps for the proper measures regardless of the stipulations
in other laws and regulations concerning: (1) increase of military
and war requirement production; (2) maintenance and improvement of
transportation and communications; (3) strengthening of defense and
maintenance of order; (4) adjustment of the taxation system; (5)
measures for war damages; (6) other matters necessary for compen-
sating and manifesting the fighting strength specified by Imperial
ordinances."
*For a brisf account of history of pre-war to wartime economio
controls, see Civil Affairs Handbook - Japan - Sec. 8 A -
Industry, p. 89.
16 041 p11 

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
According to a Domei broadcast in English "The Govern-
ment gasetted, under the date of June 22, the Extraordinary
War Measures Áct and also its enforcement decree, to be effective
from June 23. According to the enforcement decree, this act
will b enforced not only in Japan proper but also in Chosen
and Taiwan. Those vested with the powers of issuing orders and
making other dispositions under this act include Cabinet Minis-
ters, Regional Superintendents General, and the Governors General
of Chosen and Taiwan." The fields of authority covered by the
Act as given in the same broadcast are as follows: "(1) Cosmenoe-
ment and abolition of business, management of business, and punish-
ment of those engaged in business; (2) organizations of business
bodies, cooperatlon between various business bodies, and control
of employment and expropriation of business bodies; (3) adjustment
of labor suoplies--including electricity motive power and funds,
possession and disposition of supplies and control of employment
and expropriation of supplies and motive power; (4) construction,
expansion, repairing, maintenance, exchange, consolidation, dis-.
position, control, employment, and expropriation of land, buildings,
trees, equipment, and other facilities; (5) acquisition, forfeiture,
change, oxercise, employment, and expropriation of rights; (6) in-
corporation, merger, dissolution of juridical persons, and changes
in objects of juridical persons; (7) contracts on prices, wages
and other delivery of property, and also payment and receipt thereof;
(8) movements and domicile of persons; (9) the collection, official
inspection, and examination of reports; (10) exceptions and exemptions
to laws concerning control and regulations; and (il) Other matters
deslgnated after consultation with the competent Cabinet Minister
and the Premier."
B. Government Ministries and Bureaus Exercising Econosic
Controle
The Ministries responsible for exercising war production
controls and the scope of their activitiss ss of January 1, 1945
(for full description see Civil Affairs Handbook, Section 2 A -
Government and Administration and "The Japanese Ministries; Table
of Administrative Structure," Office of Strategic Services, R.
and A No. 2836) are as follows:
1. Munitions Ministry - Established in November 1943 to
exercise overall controls over industries directly related to
munitions production.
Total Mobilization Bureau - Including a General Affairs
Defense and Investigation Section, a Supervision Division which
included a Control, Labor, a Financial and an Efficiency Section.
Aircraft Ordinance Bureau: Electric Power Bureau: Fuel
Bureau, covering petroleum, the fermantation industry, synthetic
oil and gas; Coal Bureau, Non-Ferrous Metals Bureau Iron and Steel
Bureau, including Sections on Iron and Steel Mamufacturing, Special
Steels, and Distribution; Light Metals Bureau, including Sections
on Aluminum, Magnesium and Carbon Alloys; (incorporated into Air-
craft Ordinance Bureau, June 1945) Chenicals Bureay, including
16 041 P12 bu

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
Organic, Inorganic Synthetic, Chemical Administration and "House-
hold" Sections; Machinery Bureay, including Machinery (probably
machine tools), Administration, Precision Instrument, Industrial
Machinery and Power Machinery Sections; Qrganisation Bureau, in-
cluding Financial Affairs Section; Statistics Buresu; Mining
Superintendent Bureau; Planninz Board; Munitions Superintendent
Division and a Worke Bureau with an Equipment Section.
2. Agriculture and Conmerce Ministry - General Affairs
Bureau, including a General Affairs, Adjustment, Resources Mobili-
zation, Associxtions (of agriculture, industry and commerce), funds,
Oils and Fats and Planning Sections; Agriculture Adminiatration
Bureau, including Agriculture Administration, Management, Agricultural
Products, Agricultural Insurance, Land Cultivation, Animal Products,
Fertilizer and Feed Sections; Textile Bureau, including Cotton
Manufacturing, Silks and Woolens, Synthetic Fibre, Sericulture and
Planning Sections; Forestry Bureau, Fruits Bureau, Fisheries Buresus
Horse Administration, Conaumers Commodities Buresu, including Agri-
cultural Food Products, Animal Food Products, Mamufactured Foods,
Manufactured Goods Section; Commodity Price Bureau; Food Control
Bureau; Business Affairs Bureau.
3. Finance Ministry has among other Bureaus a Monopoly
Bureau dealing with tobacco, salt and camphor and a Patent Bureau.
4. Greater Zast Asia Ministry which handles economic
affairs relating to Japanese trade and economic activities in the
occupied areas includes a Manchurian Affairs Bureau with a Devel-
opment of Industries Section, Land Development Section and a
Colonial Affairs Section; China Affairs Bureau, including General
Affairs, Government Administration, Financial, Agriculture and
Forestry, Commerce and Industry, Transportation, and Special Pro-
perty Sections;
Southern Regions Bureau (includes all other occupied
areas), including Industrial, Financial, Commercial and Trans-
portation Sections;
Trade Bureau including a Planning Section, Import
Section and Export Section.
5. Home Affairs Ministry -
Prefectural Bureau, including an Administration Section
and a Financial Administration Section; Police Bureau, National
Public Works Bureau, including a Rivers Section and a Road Section;
Control Bureau, including a Civil Administration Section, Financial
Section, Development of (Local) Industries Section, Economic Section;
16 051 p12 bu

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
10-
6. Traneportation and Communications Miniatry*
Communications Board including & General Affairs
Bureau, Operations Bureau, Savinzs and Insurance Bureau, and
an Enzineering Bureau; Railway Bureau Geperal, including & General
Affeirs Bureau including Accounts, Treasury, Labor, Training,
and Welfare Sections; Bureau of Operations including Finance, Ware-
houses, Transportation, Shipping, Traffic, and Engines and Cars
Sections; Installations and Equipment Bureau, including an Equipment,
Maintenance and Repair, Roadbed, Stations, Trunk Lines, Construction,
and Yachinery, Electric Power, and Communications Section; Materiale
Bureau, including Rolling Stock, Metals, Coal and Materials, Shops
Passenger and Freight Cars, and Engine Sections; Labor Bureau, Regional
Installation Department Offices and Regional Railroad Bureau Officee:
Marine Transportation Bureau-General, including General Affairs Bureau,
Marine Transportation Bureau, including Harbor Administration, Marine
Affairs, Beacons and Engineering Sections; Seamen's Bureeu, Shipping
Bureau; and Regional Marine Transportation Bureau; Aviation Bureau
(civil aviation); Lighthouse Bureau, Motor Vehicles Bureau, Harbor
Bureau, including Harbor Construction Divisions at Niigata, Yokohama,
Kobe and Shimonoseki.
7. Ministry of Welfare
Health Bureau; Labor Bureau including Control, Planning,
Facilities, and Registration Sections; Insurance Bureau and a War
Labor Promotion Headquarters.
A study of the above list of the economic functions of the
various Ministries discloses that production controls at the national
level were concentrated largely in the Munitions Ministry and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Conmerce. The former concerns itself
largely with the production of munitions other than ordnance which is
directly under Army and Navy Ministries and the industries connected
therewith while the latter concerns itself largely with the distribu-
tion of essential minimum civilian requirements. The Munitions Minis-
try, which combined functions of a War Production Board, a War Man-
power Commission, a War Labor Board and a part of the Army Service
Forces (as far as aviation is concerned), maintained under the Premier
a dominant position over the other Ministries. In general it controlled
the National Bconomic Mobilization policios; the production of raw
materials for key industries; the production, distribution, con-
sumption and price of mineral and industrial products; the regulation
of labor, wages, and capital in enterprises relating to production
and distribution of electricity (see Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan,
Section 10 A - Administration of the Electric Power Industry) pro-
duction and distribution of machinery and machine tools; and con-
trolled the petroleum and alcohol monopolies. It exercised such
*In the Spring of 1945 the Communications Board was separated from the
Ministry.
10 041 p14 bu

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
11 .
over-all allocations of raw materials and priorities determinations
as obtained in Japan, operational details concerning which are still
unavailable.
The reorganisation of the control functions to achieve de-
centralisation on a regional basis which got underway in June, 1945,
resulted in the transfer of many functions formerly exmrcised by
the Ministries to the Regional Superintendents-General Offices.
These offices in case of emergency were to allocate the materials
and supervise production on a regional basis in accordance with
over-all regional allocation made by the central government. All
national mobilization and production programs were worked on a
yearly basis and broken down into quarters for purposes of allocating
materials and power. The Japanese year for this purpose is the same
as the government's fiscal year namely from April 1 to March 31.
Thus the firat quarter embraces April, May and June.
Its only competitors bureaucratically speaking were the Army
and Navy Ministries who could place contracts directly with the
Munitions Companies for ordnance and who controlled directly the
Army and Navy Arsenals. In addition the Navy Ministry exorcised con-
trol over all ship-building, both naval and merchant marine.
Such intra-Cabinet bureaucratic conflicts as arose were pro-
bably resolved within the Cabinet by the Premier acting on the advice
of the Cabinet Planning Bureau, and possibly the Cabinet Advisory
Board.
Sharper and more enduring than the clashes among the bureau-
crats within the Government as to the development and exsrcise of
economic controls has been the conflict between Government and busi-
ness and industry at all levels. Nevertheless, the Government has
progressively extended its control directly and indirectly over all
industrial as well as agricultural production from the largest
Zaibatsu enterprises down to the small local enterprises in the mure
at a sub-prefectural level. The heaviest sufferers in this progressive
elimination of a free-enterprise, cospetitive economy have been the
small and medium sized commercial and industrial organizations and
businesses, which, under the combined pressure and manipulation of
the Government and the large industrial and commercial enterprises
(including the Zaibatsu) have been in large measure squeesed out of
existence either through forced mergers, or by being deprived of
essential raw materials, capital or labor needed to carry on their
activities. The largest concerns have been able to hold their own
through a series of compromises whereby they have become virtually
quasi-governmental enterprises and their leading representatives
virtual government officials, who in a few cases have taken positions
of ministerial rank in the Cabinet. There has developed in recent
years forms of organization of industry which stop only just short
of a complete nationalization of that industry. Under the powers
conferred upon the Government by the War Measures Act of June 1945,
it is quite possible that the nationalization of Japan's war industry
will occur before the end of the war. These organisations are the
Control Societies (Tosek-kai) and their sub-organizations the Control
16 041 P15 D0

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
Associations (Tosei-Kumiai); the Munitions Companies, the National
Policy Companies and the Eidan or Corporations.
Under a law passed on February 18, 1942, which was based
on Article 18 of the National General Mobilisation Law, official
authority was extended to the Control Socisties, the National
Policy Companies, the Corporations (Eidan) to carry cut their re-
sponsibilities (See Appendix VII). These control organisations were
to be considered as government agencies in discharging their re-
sponsibilities and any violation of their orders was to be considered
as a violation of the particular law or regulation upon which their
order was based. The officials of these organisations were to be
considered as Government officials. Matters relating to the allo-
cation and distribution of raw materials and of production programs
within the respective industries were to be conducted by these
organizations.
In addition, there were the prefectural Commercial and
Industrial Eccnomic Boards organized under Government direction.
A description of the organization, operational responsibilities
and interrelationships of these agencies with each other and with
the Government will throw further light on how Japan's war economy
functions and provide a background upon which to base recommendations
as to the extent to which M.G. can or should utilise them for the con-
trol of its own production programs.
C. Quasi-Governmental Organizations Controlling Industry
1. Control Socisties (Tosei-Kai) and Control Associstions
(Tosei-Kumiai).
The Major Industries Association Ordinance promulgated
August 29, effective September 1, 1941, laid the basis for the
organization of the major proportion of industry for war pro-
duction. (For text and Amendment see Appendices V and VI).
By 1943, 12,762 of the 83,024 corporations of Japan or 15 percent,
were organized into Control Societies under this ordinance re-
presenting assets evaluated at 11,626,000,000 yen or 38 percent of
the total industrial assets. Prior to the establishment of the
Munitions Ministry in November 1943 there were no less than 345
of those Societies organized and placed under the supervisory con-
trol of the former Ministry of Commerce and Industry (22 under
Metals Bureau, 75 under Bureau of Chemistry, 31 under Machine
Bureau, 96 under Textile Bureau, 99 under Fuel Bureau, and two
under Trade Bureau). Since that time many more have been organized.
Distribution according to industry in 1943 was as follows: Metal
Mining 397 corporations; Coal Mining 215, Metal Refining 134, Machinery
4,844, Cement 68, Trade 880, Rails, 297, Fibre 4,315, Chemical 541,
Fats and Oi1 329, Rubber 440, Leather 306.
The passage of the ordinance setting up these vertical
control societies followed a long struggle between elements in
the bureaucracy and among the military and private industry, and
represents a compromise whereby private industry was to retain its
basic character as such but to be brought under the stricter control
16 041 p16 bu

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
of the government than ever before. The ordinance provided
for the establishment of Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and
Control Asscciations (Tosei-Kumiai) by kind of industry when
designated to do so by the competent minister. They are set
up under civil law as joint stock companies. The functions
of the Control Societies as defined in Artiole 6 are broad in
scope. They are responsible for planning with the government
the national program for production and distribution in the
industry concerned, the means of supplying the labor, raw
material, capital and any other demands of the industry con-
cerned; for controlling and guiding production and distribution
of any of the enterprises belonging to the industry concerned;
providing for the complete equipment of the industry, developing
the technique, increasing the efficiency, unifying the techniques
of production, performing the management, undertaking investigation
of the enterprises within the industry and conducting research.*
Officers of a Control Society consist of a president,
several directors, several inspectors, and a board of trustees.
In some cases two vice-presidents and one chief-director may be
appointed. The president represents the Society, controls and
guides the Society and manages all the affairs of the Society.
His is a very powerful position and that position has usually
been held by the head of one of the largest units in the industry
as a whole. He is appointed to the position by the competent
minister from among those suggested by the nominating committee.
The nominating committee in turn is appointed by the competent
minister from among those "who have had experience with or have
made special studies on the industry concerned" (Art. 14). The
president in turn appoints, with the approval of the competent
minister, the vice-presidents, the chief-director, the directors
and members of the board of trustees. Bach board "elects" in-
spectors who investigate the financial conditions of the Society
and advise the president on inquiries submitted to them by the
president. With the approval of the competent minister, the
president can discharge the vice-president, chief-director and
the directors even during their three year term of office. The
officers shall not be engaged in other official duties or in
commercial business except as the competent minister may allow
(Art1cles 12-16).
Through this autocratic method of selecting officers it
is understandable how it has come about that the dominant units,
usually Zaibatsu controlled, have been able to control these
Societies through their keymen in close cooperation with the
ministerial bureaucrats.
In July 1945, the Major Industries Ordinance was revised to
strengthen the Control Society in order to increase their regional
administrative autonomy. (See Appendix VI).
16 041 P17 bu

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
The Control Society may give suggestions about matters
related to the industry to the minister concerned with the in-
dustry and must give answers to inquiries submitted by the
minister. In turn the officers may request from members sub-
mission of the necessary material for the investigation of cer-
tain points regarding the industry and such material must be
submitted immediately (Articles 17, 18). The Control Society
may levy assessments and fines on members, establish control
regulations governing members, investigate the business affairs,
financial conditions, account books, establishments, and other
property of members if it is considered necessary. The president
may with approval of the competent minister discharge officials
of member concerns when an ordinance, or administrative decision
based on an ordinance is violated, or the Society's regulations
are violated or the public welfare is jeopardised. (Art. 27).
The powers reserved by the Government over the Control
Societies are extensive as defined in Articles 3l-36. The
competent ministers may crder business reports to be made when-
ever they consider pecessary or inspect factories, accounting
books, documents or other items; they may order the Society to
conduct such investigations or order the Society to operate a
needed enterprise; they may take over management of the Society
itself; they may discharge the presidents and other officers and
may dissolve the Societies.
The Control Associations (Tosei-Kumiai) closely parallel
in their functions and organisation the Control Societies and
are subordinated to them. The Societies represent and control the
industry as a whole, while Kumiai representing largely medium
and small sized enterprises are organized into a Control Associe-
tion on a territorial basis, i.e., Do, Fu or Ken. They may have
as members single proprietors, companies, joint stock companies,
industrial or commercial associations, federations of industrial
and commercial associations, or mixed combinations in a given
industry. They may embrace two or more such administrative divi-
sions. The head of the association is a Chief-Director who is
appointed by the president of the Control Society over the same
industry. When there is no Control Society, the competent minister
appoints a Chief-Director. With respect to certain functions
and powers set forth in Art. 50 the government's local prefectural
administrative office takes the place of the competent minister.
By Art. 51 the Minister of Army or Navy replaces the competent
minister when inquiries, reports, inspections, investigations and
orders concerned are of direct military importance. This clause
was a source of conflicting jurisdictional disputes both within
the Government and in the Control Societies. The establishment
of the Munitions Ministry in November 1943 was designed to re-
solve these disputes at the top level. At the operating level
the conflicts occurred in the relation of the Munitions Companies
to the Control Societies.
16 041 p18 bu

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
Operationally the major Control Societies have head
offices usually in Tokyo with branch offices in the eight
regions and sub-branch offices in prefectures where their
enterprises are centered.
The Government, in order to exercise control over
the Societies issued under Article 16 of the General National Mo-
bilisation Law on May 13, 1942, an ordinance which vested
in the Ministries the authority to restrict or prohibit the
use or transfer of industrial facilities or patent rights held
by mamufacturing or commercial organizations; to restrict
or prohibit sale of enterprises, to order the transfer, by
sale or lease, of industrial facilities or patent rights held
by companies or juridical bodies and to order companies or
juridical bodies to absorb specified enterprises. This or-
dinance was to apply to both large and small enterprises but
to be applied against larger ones only when they show reluctance
to comply with government requests for expansion or altaration
of their lines of production. The result of this ordinance was
to increase the rate of merging or abolishing small and madium
sized enterprises.
At the outset the Control Socicties under the general
superrision of the competent ministers had the responsibility
of controlling and allocating materials within their spheres.
This, however, led to a chaotis situation in which enterprisas
were competing for the same materials but in diffarent Societies
There was lacking a uniform allocating systam under a priorities
rating until the Munitions Ministry was established late in 1943.
This development and the increase in the numbar of Munitions
Companies seemed to reduce the dominant role of the Control
Societies over the economy as a whole. However, that was not
the casa and they continued to exercise a useful role of a
liaison character and in carrying out the administrative regu-
lations of the government with respect to the control and operation
of industry itself. Likewise through their control over the
thousands of small enterprises organized into the Tosei-Kumiai
they brought their capacities and facilities into relationship
with the overall production schedules of the government. In this
regard they operated most effactively at the regional and pre-
fectural levels.
In general it can be said that by July 1945, the Control
Societies controlled the production and distribution of the pro-
ducts of their respective industries under the regional allocations
of the Regional Superintendents-General Offices in accordance with
the overall regional allocations granted the region under the
General Mobilization Plan of the central government. An ordinance
issued July 4, 1945 revised the Major Industries Ordinance of
September 1, 1941 for the purpose of strengthening the Control
Societies giving them the power to operate and administer as well
as exercise general managerial supervision over all members'
facilities (See Appendix VI). In so doing however, they were to
remain under the general supervision of the Regional Superintendents
Generals Offices set up in June 1945. The Regional Offices' task
16 041 p19 bu

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
was to set up supply and distribution quotas for their re-
spective regions and issue allocation certificates under a
priority system to the Regional Control Sociaty branches.
It is the job of each Society to see that production quotas
ara met, to allocats production quotas among the enterprises
within the Society and to assist the competent minlster in
determining prices and to distribute the product properly
under the allotment certificates issued by the Government.
Thus even in case of a through-production plant such as a
steel plant it cannot utilize its own ingot or special steels
except under an allotment certificats. (For regulations of
typical Societies seo Appendices VIII-XVIII).
2. Munitions Companies (Guniu Kaiaha)
Several years before the outbreak of war in the Pacific
in 194? the Japanese Government, through the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry and Army and Navy Minlstars. bagan to extend
its control over designated plants of the larger industrial
intarests to guide them in converting and expanding their
facilities for the production of munitions of all kinds. The
Army and Navy bought for then with governnent funds necessary
machine tools of all kinds fron abroad, placed contracts with
then, guaranteed profits, assisted them in getting priorities
on scarce materials and labor. They sant their own technicians
into thase plants and supervised and inspected the output. By
the time the war broke out there were over a hundred of such
plants and sub-plants producing the most advanced types of
ordnance of which Japan was capable, from aircraft to small arms
ammunition.
On December 7, 1943, a Munitions Company Law (for
summary, see Appendix III) went into effect designed to extend
the government's direct control over these plants even further.
Since the passage of the act the number of such companiss has
increased to over 400. The range of activities engaged in by
these companies extend fron finished aircraft, ordnance, tanks,
trucks, through iron and steel manufacturing, chemicals, machine
tools, fuels, coal, non-ferrous metals, electric power and gas
works. While the ownership of the companies remained private
the Government, particularly the Munitions Ministry and the Army
and Navy Ministries, virtually managed then.
According to the Article 5 of the Act, the designated
companies were to select a person responsible for production
among the officials of the company." If they could not do so
the government would appoint a person to that position. The
managerial staff and employues would be subject to the orders
of the "leader" in charge (Art. 14). The governmant could punish
this designated "leader" for failure to carry out his duties.
16 041 p20 bu

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
The Government might designate the "time, plans, quantitios,
and other necessary matters" relating to production schedules
(Art. 6). It might issue orders relating to the acquisition,
storage and movement of basic materials, to the inprovement of
technique, the supervision of labor and other matters necessary
to carry or the enterprise (Art. 7). It might restrict or ban
the Munitions Companies from engaging in other than designated
operations (Art. 10). It might issue necessary orders "in con-
nection with the analgamation or dissolution of munitions com-
panias" (Art. 1l). It might "iasue orders to munitions companies
necessary to effect the adjustment and managament of funds" (Art.
12). It might issue orders or take necessary measures for the
supervision of munitions companies (Art. 15), and gather, inspeot
and examine reports on "the business matters of munitions companies
(Δrt. 16).
In return for submitting to these Government controls,
the Munitions Coupanies enjoyed many privileges. The Govermment
might cancel bans and restrictions in regard to procedures for
permits, etc., (Art 3). They could thus obtain special priorities
with respect to materials, equipment, and capital funds. They
could recruit labor and the government could guarantee profits
(Art. 4). The Government could back up the absorption of one
enterprise by another (Arts. 8 and 9). Under Article 8, the
Government might "issue orders necessary for cooperation between
the Munitions Company and those (persons) connected with carrying
on the operation of cooparating factories and subsidiary factories
and other enterprises which the Munitions Company conducts". Under
Article 9, the Government might "issue to Munitions Companies
orders necessary in connection with the taking over or taking
custody of enterprises, the classification (of articles of trust),
or changes in the articles or incorporation, the delegation,
transfer, or discontinuing or suspension of operations (and) the
transfer of equipment or (patent rights) belonging to an enter-
prise." Administratively these companios were placed under the
direct supervision of the Munitions Ministry through the Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus set up in the nine (later, after February
1945, eight) regions.
In view of the favored position held by the Munitions
Companies, it is natural that doubts arose as to the continued
usefulness of the Control Societies. However, they contimued to
survive, as we have seen above and were given a stronger position
under an ordinance issued about July 4, 1945. The relations
between the Control Sociaties and Munitions Companies at the
regional level were controlled by the Munitions Superintendence
Bureau, which after June 1945, were placed in the Regional
General-Superintendents' offices. The principal function of
the Regional Superintendence Bureaus (for details see Appendix
IV) was to coordinate production with requirements and see that
Munitions Companies got their priority quotas of raw and semi-
finished materials from the Control Societies and Associations.
16 041 pa1 bu

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
The fact that the large Zaibatsu and other combines had some
factories which were designated Munitions Companies and some
which wert in the Control Societies or Associations together
with the general situation that Munitions Companies utilised
the materials and semi-finished products produced by them to
fabricate end-products reduced the sphere of potential con-
flict between the two. Furthermore, overall priority and
allocations control was concentrated in the Munitions Ministry
which contimued after the decentralisation reorganisation of
June 1945, to issue basic production and allocation quotas
on a regional basis.
3. National Policy Companies
Japan began the establishment of semi-official
"national policy" companiss in 1881 with the establishment
of the Yokohama Specie Bank.* Up to 1939 there were 36 of
these companies. Before 1936 these companies were usually
concerned with banking communications and colonial and re-
gional development. Two of the most facous in the last named
field were the South Manchurian Railway Company and the Oriental
Development Company. The first such company to be concerned
primarily with the industrial fiald was the Japan Iron Manu-
facturing Company established in l933. Fourteen of these com-
panias were organized between 1937 and 1939, a mumber of which
were designed to exnand production of "strategic" materials
regardless of cost. These included the Imperlal Fuel Develop-
ment Company, Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company, Japen Rice Company, Imperial Mining Development Company,
Japan Aeronautical Transportation Company, Japan Fertilizer
Company and the Japan Coal Company.
The government as a rule contributes part of tho
capital (usually half), permits the issue of debentures up to any-
where from two to ten times the paid-up capital; guarantees the
principal and interest on debentures; receives dividends at a
*The genaral term "National Policy Companys" as used herein and
generally elsewhere in reality covers two types of companies,
namely, Kokusaku Kaisha (National Policy Companies) and Tokushu
Kaisha (Special Companies). The former term refers to large
regional development companies such as the Hokkaido Development
Company, the Oriental Development Company (for Korea), North China
Development Company, etc. These companies usually include sub-
sidiary companies. The Special Companies cover specific comodi-
ties or industries. The generic term is justified as the govern-
ment exercises large measures of control and directly or indirectly
and finances them to carry out broad national policies.
10 041 p22 bu

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
lower rate than private shareholders or gives them up entirely
when profits are small; grants exemptions from income, profit
and local taxes and from import duties on imported materials
and equipment for a limited number of years; and sometimes pro-
vides subsidies. In general, national policy companies were
formed to assure adequate expansion of facilitiss and materials
to meet the needs of the expanding strategic industries and
establish to the fullest extent possible and uneconomic autarchic
war economy. Durinz the war these companies have continued to
enjoy high priority preferential treatment in the supply of
materials, equipment and manpower under direct control of the
competent Cabinet Ministers. The number of such companies
operating in Janan proper has considerably increased since 1941.
By 1943, there were no less than 480 of these policy companies
operating in Japan proper. (See Appendix XXv for a list.)
4. Eidan or Corporations
The Eidan (possibly an abbreviation of Eigyo Dantai)
are state-managed and sometimes partially or wholly govarnment
financed corporations established to engage in enterprises and
activities which are frequently uneconomic in character, but
essential to the war effort such as the importation of vitally
needed raw materials regardless of cost, the purchase of vital
raw materials within Japan and control of their movement, the
purchase of outworn equipment, liquidation of enterprises which,
because of their smallness or lack o. technical efficiency, are
unsuited for war production purposes, construction of housing
for war workers, farn developmant projects, the selling, pur-
chasing, and manufacturing of important food-stuffs, improve
medical and hospital facilities, etc. A brief description of
a number of these Eidan will give a picture of their functions
and relation to the control of the war economy.
(a) Industrial Facilities Business Corporation
(Sangyo Setsubi Hidan)
This corporation was organized by the government on
December 27, 1942 with an author1zed capitalization of 200,000,000
yen. The government issued bonds at a price of 95.9 yen per
hundred yen bond to ccver this capitalization. The purpose of
the corporation was to purchase or transform the equipment of
facilities of idle and unfinished industrial establishments under
the guidance and authority of the Commerce and Industry Ministry
to make them of use for munitions production. With the permission
of the government authorities such industrial establishments can
be rented out to munitions companies or other concerns for the
production of munitions or other essential products. It was pro-
vided that Article 16 of the General Mobilization Law could be
invoked against owners of such idle anl unfinished plants who
might be unwilling to sell them or refuse to convert them to war
production.
16 041 P23 bu

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
(b) Rasential Vateriale Supervision Corporation
(Juyo Busshi Kanri Sidan)
This corporation was organised under Law No. 69, dated
February 24, 1942, with a capitalisation of 20,000,000 yen,
supplied entirely by the government (See Appendix XVIII). The
purpose of the corporation was, "To guarantee and increase
stocks of essential materials in wartime; to provide for efficient
and adequate utilisation of the stored essential materials". The
corporation was to provide for the storage of essential materials
either in its own facilities or to order others to do so. It was
to purchase locally or through importation essential materials, to
stockpile them and sell them under priority allocations to war
industries. It possibly took over control of warehoused enemy
materials. The Corporation can demand reports on stored materials
and inspect books of concerns holding such stocks.
There is no provision for issuing of debentures, nor for
covering losses, the government absorbing all losses. Penalties
are provided in case of negligence on the part of the corporation's
officials. With the establishment of the Koeki Eidan in July
1943, the functions of this organization were absorbed into it.
(c) Regional Trading Corporation (Koeki Bidan)
The Koeki Eidan was established by the Government in July
1943 and placed under the supervision of the Greater East Asia
Ministry to centralize, and make more direct than in the past,
government control over all export and import trade, to relate
that trade directly to the war effort by assuring that the
greatly restricted flow of exports be directed to secure essential
comodity imports for war industries and to assure that the mini-
mum exports allowed be made available for export and not find their
way into the domestic markets. (For details see the Foreign Trade
Guide.)
The corporation absorbed the functions of the Essential
Materials Supervision Corporation and supervised the over-all Trade
Control Society, organized January 27, 1942, composed of 83 com-
panies and 90 guilds (renamed Japan Trade Association May 4, 1942).
One major wartime problem confronting the
Japanese was to assure that articles would be made available for
export necessary to obtain a return flow of vitally needed imports.
There existed within Japan such a vast unsatisfied demand for the
same articles for which high prices could be paid that a rigid con-
trol, under what the Japanese called the "link system", had to be
maintained. The link-system began to develop in 1937 and was de-
signed to link the raw material imports to their finished end-
product for export to assure that all the end-products would not be
absorbed in the domestic market. This was done by designating
certain factories to produce the end-products for export and.
allocating raw material imports to them acoordingly. This practice
was continued after the war started as evidenced in regulations
on articles for exportation issued March 5, 1942 (see Appendix XX1I).
16 041 p24 bu

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-21 -
Udoubtedly the Koeki Eidan contimued to operate the link system
to obtain the same objectives. As M.G. may be faced with the
same problem, a descrintion of the link system as it worked
before the war has been appended to this guide. (See Appendices
XXIII, XXIV.)
With the establishment of the Koeki Eidan (Koeki may be
translated as Regional, or Zonal, i.e., greater East Asia Sphere
trade) Japan further abandoned liberal trading principles and
set up a virtual state controlled trade (See Appendix XXI).
In order to simplify control the number of persons and firms
engaged in export and import "barter" trade numbering over
6,000 in 1942 was reduced to 600 by the end of 1943. The Kooki
Eidan operated in cooperation with a number of associations to
which most of the remaining 600 firms belonged. These associa-
tions served as agents of the Eidan. Expert firms which exported
more than five kinds of goods exceeding an average value of
5,000,000 yen during the years 1941 and 1942 were allowed to
contimue business. All others were to be merged according to
order from the greater East Asia Ministry under whose super-
vision the Koeki Eidan operated.
The minimum yearly turnover of importers was also fixed
at 5,000,000 yen. Importers who did not achieve this minimm in
the past were not allowed to merge but were compelled to give up
the import business. They received up to 100,000 yen compensation
paid either by the exporters' guilds or by the Kooki Associations
(Koeki Kyokni) organized into the Japan Trade Control Society.
This latter society was reported to have established a Regional
Trade Adjustment Committee consisting of 39 members divided into
19 sub-committees according to kind of goods to be exported and
one sub-committee dealing with imports. The Committee was en-
trusted with handling imports, conducting research, giving neces-
sary advice, and answering questions asked by the government.
The scope of the powers of the Koeki Eidan was broad.
It had control over the import and export of commodities and
the purchase and sale of same in connection with their import
and export. It was responsible for warehousing, controlling the
movement, purchasing and selling certain imported vital war
materials. It could engage in auxiliary activities as the need
arose related to the above activities. It also had the respon-
sibility for adjusting commodity prices in the Greater East
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. It was to carry out its trading
function and vital resources control function in accordance with
an annual plan laid down by the government subject to readjust-
ment every three months in accordance with the changing supply
and demand situation. It might allow other legal persons or in-
stitutions to carry out a part of its business with the approval
of the government. In that case the corporation or institution
which participated was considered as the part of the staff of
Midan. When the organization was first established 687 erticles
16 041 p25 bu

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
were designated for import. Later the list was lengthened.
Exclusive of rice, wheat, tobacco, charcoal and salt, ranged
all the way from iron and coal down to towels and shos-strings.
The export business was carried on in two ways: (1) Direct
export by the Eidan, (2) Export by entrusted export organisations.
Such entrusted organisations were the Japan Controlling Company
for Grocery Trade, Japan Export Promotion Company for leather
products, the respective Japan Export Associations for Brushes,
for Textile Materials, for Furs, for Tea, for Agricultural Pro-
ducts for Greens and Fruits and for Marine Products. The import
business was either carried on directly or by entrusting persons
to carry it on. Regions covered were Kuantung, Leased Territory,
Manchuria, China, Thailand, French Indo-China, Germany and Italy.
The Southern Regions under Military control were excluded.
Its control over vital resources covered: (1) iron and
steel, raw materials, for iron and steel, and iron and steel pro-
ducts, (2) non-ferrous metals, their raw materials and products,
(3) textile products and raw materials, (4) medicine, medical in-
struments and other materials for hygienic purposes; and (5) other
materials as designated by the appropriate ministries. To carry
out this function a section on control and planning was set up in
the planning department of the organization.
The Eidan had the function of purchasing unutilised raw
materials in one factory and moving it to another as needed.
It had the responsibility for purchasing and ware-housing
and conserving materials needed for emergency relief such as
lumber, galvanized shooting, nails and also medicines.
Certain vital materials such as coal, cotton and bauxite
were put in charge of the respective Control Societies of the
industries utilising them but the Eidan had continued supervising
control over their disposition.
It had control over such stocks of materials and com-
modities assigned for export when war broke out as still remained
in Japan.
It purchased and controlled luxuries, confiscated enemy
goods, artificial silk pulp and raw rubber.
It had control over enemy properties.
Its auxiliary business consisted of the management of
warehouses in which the commodities under its control were stored;
supply of materials for mamufacture of goods for export and providing
loans.
10 041 p26 bu

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
- 23 -
It thus plays a role roughly parallel to the Foreign
Economic Administration, the U.S. Commercial Company, and
the Alien Property Custodian in the U.S.
Among the other Eidan was one to provide housing for
civiliad workers. It was established May 1, 194l, with an
authorised capitalization of 100,000,000 yen, 56,723,640 yen
of which was paid up by 1943 all by the government. The
headquarters were Tokyo with a branch office in Yokahama,
Osaka, Nagoya, Hiroshima, Fukuoka and Sendai. Another was
the Central Food Administration Corporation established Sep-
tember 1, 1942. The authorized capitalisation was 100,000,000
yen, of which 30,000,000 yen was invested by the government.
The purpose was to control the preservation and distribution
of food under government direction. It had branches in Otaru,
Sendai, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Takamatau and Moji and field of-
fices located in Niigata, Toyama, Mito, Yokohama, Shisuoka,
Kyoto, Okayama, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, Kagoshima, and
Taihoku. In addition there was on Eidan governing local food
administration with offices in each prefecture and metropoli-
tan area.
This completes the descriptive survey of the major
governmental and quasi-goveramental agencies exercising eco-
nomic controls at the national level. There should, however,
be mentioned in passing the various and frequently changing
Cabinet advisory boards and councils in which the represent-
atives of the largest industrial combines found a place. Their
existence represents an effort to compromise the conflicts
which arose among the bureaucrats; the military and industri-
alists. Through these advisory councils and through the posi-
tions held in the Cabinet by representatives of the combines,
the big industrialists have retained a position of influence
in the formulation of policy and its administration. In ad-
dition there existed a mumber of industrial councils made up
of representatives from industry who advise the various min-
istries and assist in the coordination of production program.
III. Controls at the Regional Level
The development of the administration of economic con-
trols at a regional level began in June 1943, when Japan pro-
per was divided into nine administrative regions. The purpose
at that time was to simplify administration by eliminating the
excessive bureaucratic red-tape and jurisdictional conflicts
16 041 p8x b

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
which arose out of the exercise of controls at the level of
the 47 little prefectures under which the country had been
administered since the latter half of the past century. At
the same time the "Presidents" of these nine regioms were
given rank equivalent to that of a Cabinet Minister and were
to report directly to the Premier. The ultimate aim was to
develop regional economic self-sufficiency for war purposes.
In February of 1945 the number of regions was reduced
to eight, by which time they coincided exactly with the six
military districts into which the country was divided - one
of the military districts, called the "Central District",
containing three of the administrative regions. On June 23,
1945 this Central Army District was divided into three parts
exactly along the lines of the three administrative regions
fornerly located within it. Thus by that time the eight Army
Districts coincided with the eight Regional Districts and were
called by the following names: Hokkai, Tohoku, Kanto-Shinetsu,
Tokai-Hokuriku, Kinki, Chugoku, Chikoku, and Kyushu. (For a
liat of the prefectures included in each region and the name
of the head city where the regional administrative control of-
fices are located, see Appendix I).
In June 1945 the Government, under the imminent threat
of invasion, laid the basis for the extension to the eight
regions administrative autonomy in the event any one or more
of them should be cut off from contact witn the central re-
gime. On June l0th the regional administration offices were
reorganized into Regional General Superintendents-General Of-
fices with a Superintendent-General in charge of each. The
personnel of the offices began to be strangthaned by trans-
forring officials from the Ministries to these Offices. The
basis for the authority of these Offices was provided for in
the Extraordinary War Measures Bill passed on June 12. Under
this Bill the Diet surrendered to the Government, its powers
for the duration of the war. In the bill the term "Govern-
ment" was defined to include the new Regicnal Superintendents-
General. The powers conferred under this Bill were total in
scope and subject only to an Imperial check. Unlike the Na-
tional General Mobilizstion Law, first passed in 1938, the
Bill provides for unlimited power to be exercised by the Gov-
ernment which can exercise its powers not only through the
issuance of Imperial decrees but through Ministerial ordi-
nances and regulations. These same powers can be exercised
by the Superintendents-General in case of emergencies. All
previous legislation, ordinances and decrees can be set aside
insofar as the Government determines to do so and new
16 041 p28 bu

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
25-
regulations and controls established. The broad powers thus
potentially conferrable on the Regional Superintendents-
General have been set forth above.
The regional Munitions 3uperintendence Bureaus were
retained and incorporated into the structure of the new Super-
intendents-General Offices. The regional Munitions Bureaus
were originally set up by the Munitions Ministry and were de-
signed to supervise over-all production programs at a regional
level. Their function was to supervise and coordinate produo-
tion programs among the Munitions Companies within each region
and to coordinate the production of the members of the Control
Societies within the region to that of the Munitions Companies,
depending upon them for raw materials and semi-finished pro-
ducts. Under the re-organization of June 1945 they will not
only exercise their former functions, but also will exercise
broader controls undoubtedly as the war ges on. An indica-
tion of this is seen in a Tokyo broadcast to the home audience
in June 1945 to the effect that the control over the disposal
or purchase of special ores and ferro-alloys formerly exercised
by the Munitions Ministry will henceforth be carried out in ac-
cordance with distribution regulations of the local Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus.
To serve in an advisory capacity to the Regional Super-
intendents-Ganeral it was proposed in June that in addition to
the members of the prefectural and other local administrative
councils, that members of the Diet living in a region and other
leading individuals be organized into a Council.
It is apparent that the trend toward decentralisation
had by June 1945 placed in the hands of the regional author-
ities responsibility for directly controlling war production
programs under over-all plans laid down in Tokyo by the Cab-
inet in general and the Munitions Ministry in particular.
This is of significance to M.G. in their own planning as the
utilization of this same regional basis for the administration
of their own programs and the subordination of prefectural con-
trols to regional controls would serve to simplify the probloms
of coordination which will arise.
IV. Controls at the Prefectural and Municipal Level
While the operational controls exercised at the region-
al level largely concerned themselves with the production of
war materials those at the local administrative level were re-
lated to the production of food and civilian commodities in
16 041 P80 b

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
- 26 -
general required to meet the minimum needs of the people as
a whole. Such controls were of course exercised under the
direct supervision of responsible Ministries in Tokyo. (For
details on the administrative arganization and functions of
local government, ase Civil Affairs Handbook; Japan, Section,
2 A and 2 B, Government and Administratlon- Local Government).
The trend toward decentralization outlined above with respect
to the regions likewise affected the responsibilities of the
local administrative units. In May 1944 many functions for-
merly exercised by the central government were delegated to
the prefecture. The Home Ministry transferred 51 functions
including the right to authorize the construction of public
utilities costing less than 100,000 yen, the rights to author-
ize improvements of rivers, bridges, and urban dwellings, etc.
The Munitions Ministry transferred controls over the acquisi-
tion of raw materlals and productlon of goods peculiar to cor-
tain local regions, while the Agriculture and Forestry Min-
istry transferred supervision over crop improvements and lo-
cal marketing facilities.
In general the major aim was to allow the prefectures
greater freedom to cooperate with the regional administration
in developing regional self-sufficiency in supplying the needs
of the people and maintaining public services. In order to
coordinate the functions of the various prefectures in a re-
gion with that of the regional adrinistrations, local and re-
gional Administrative Councils wera set up in March 1944 in-
cluding representatives from the local monopoly bureaus, lo-
cal fuel bureaus, local communications bureaus, railway bureaus,
Marine transportation bureaus and mines superintendence bureaus.
The chiefs of the Munitions Superintendencies became members
of these Councils at that time.
To draw the small and medium-sized local commercial and
industrial interests closer into the net-work of controls a
law was promulgated on March 12, 1943, setting up Commercial
and Industrial Economic Boards in order to supervise and con-
trol their activities under the "leadership principle". (See
Appendix XIX, XX). As the Boards were set up the former
Chambers of Commerce and Industry were abolisbed. The new
Boards were to be more broadly representative of local in-
terest than the former Chambers whose membership was confined
largely to the urban areas. The Boards were to assist lo-
cal authorities in coordinating local production programs and
to supplement the vertical controls exercised by the Control
Associations and Societies by horizontal controls extending
across all lines of production. However the Boards exercised
10 041 p30 bu

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
- 27 -
only advisory and educational functions so as nqt to con-
flict with the stronger vertical controls exercised at re-
gional and national levels. They were to organize regula-
ting groups in urban and rural areas to facilitate the
work of the government in carrying out governmental regula-
tions and maintain liaison function with local Control Asso-
ciation (Tosei-Kumisi) into which even small enterprises
at the mura or village level were organized.
The chairman of the Boards had dominate power. They
were appointed by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry from
lists submitted by the prefectural governors. Directors
were appointed by the prefectural governors. Both chairman
and directors were on a salary basis. Members represent all
types and sizes of business. Big concerns were represented
by individuals and small concerns by their respective group
organizations. There were three types of members: (1) In-
dividuals representative of comparatively large firms paying
above a fixed amount of tax, (2) Commercial and industrial
associations, trade association, etc., (3) Groups connected
with the economy but not in a profit-making manner or regula-
tory capacity such as Councils, Federations of Associations,
Factory Societies, Research groups, etc.
In the fall of 1943 it appears that the Boards were
reorganized on a regional basis with branch offices at of
each regional administrative cənter.
These Boards, after reorganization to afford more
democratic representation of small enterprises to make it
possible for them to express their will through a council,
could be of aid to M.G. by advising on the civilian needs of
each prefecture or region and recommend channels through
which materials could be sold and to recommend to whom to
grant needed credits.
16 041 p31 bu

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
- 28-
PART III
RECOMENDATIONS
I. Military Government's concern in the administration of production
programs in Japan.
Objectives governing the administration of production
programs by Military Government.
Subject to the restrictions imposed by policy direc-
tives with respect to the Disarmament of Japan and
the prevention of the redevelopment of the Japanese
war potential Military Government will be concerned
with the administration of production programs. in
order to:
1. Produce goods to supply the needs of the occupy-
ing forces.
2. Produce consumer goods to provide for the min-
imum essential needs of the civilian population
and reduce the necessity for imports.
3. Produce goods for export, the first charge against
which will be for the payment of approved es-
sential imports.
4. Provide capital goods to repair and maintain:
a. The equipment of factories and facilities
producing the goods for the above four pur-
poses;
b. Essential public utilities;
c. Essential communications and transportation.
5. Provide solid and liquid fuels.
6. Provide essential housing and building materials.
7. Administer production programs in such a manner as
to create conditions favorable to the emergence
and growth of democratic forces in Japan.
The term "Administration of Production Prograns" as used in
this guide is defined as covering all activities involved in
the processing of supplies from raw materlals to the finished
product, but does not include such portions of specific indus-
tries as normally do not utilize industrial processes such as
agriculture and fisheries with respect to which activities
special guides have been prepared.
10 041 p3s bu

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
- 29 -
II. The general situation which will confront Military Gov-
ornment in Japan.
Whether the occupation of Japan be partial or complute
or of short or long duration Military Government will need to
concern itself in production programs to attain the objectives
outlined above due to universal shortages of vital raw mate-
rials and consumer goods which will obtain. Moreover, the de-
struction or breakdown of transportation facilities and public
utilities will effect every area of Japan in varying degree
and require a control over production, allocation and movement
of equipment and repairs to restore the most essential facil-
itias.
The offorts of the Japanese authorities since 1943 to
establish economic self-sufficiency on a regional basis will
have attained at most only a temporary effectivaness through
stock-piling of supplies traditionally deficient in particular
areas. By the time of invasion these stock-piles of consumer
goods and repair equipment may well be destroyed or used up
creating a situation in which essential supplies will have to
be brought in from other areas normally producing surpluses
or where destruction will have been less widespread. This
situation will necessitate the application of M.G. control
to deternine where such relative "surpluses" may exist and
to order their transfer to areas where they may be most needed.
This is a problem that cannot be left to the Japanese alone to
solve. Under the impact of invasion M.G. must be prepared to
fact a chaotic condition in which practically all centralised
controls will have broken down, while regional controls will
be largely ineffective if only due to the fact the top-ranking
officials will probably disappear, particularly if their
families live elsewhere. Under calamitous conditions the
Japanese officials will tend to think first of their family,
second of their local and prefectural region and last of their
responsibilities to the state. Consequently only some of the
regional and prefectural controls will be operating to any ef-
fective extent with lower-ranking local officials on hand.
Because of their outlook and interests local officials will
not be concerned about supplying other areas and will seek
to retain and conceal stocks for local use and to exaggerate
local needs. Consequently M.G. will have to take direct
charge of top regional and central controls and order Japan-
ese officials to carry out allocation and production programs
which they have drawn up with Japanese assistance as discussed
below. Japanese officials may have to be ordered back to their
posts or assume new positions in areas to which they may have fled.
10 041 p33 bu

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
- 30 -
In the event that the occupation of Japan occurs only
after surrender possibly a more orderly government set-up
will obtain and M.G. will be able more quickly to establish
its over-all controls which can be more supervisory and in-
direct in character than if the occupation occurs only after
invasion and fighting.
III. Methods for exercising economic controls.
Due to the probable shortages of some key raw mate-
rials and of available facilities for processing the end-
products with which M.G. is concerned priority and allocations
controls supplemented by credit controls should be established.
As a rule only key materials in short supply will need to
have priority and allocating controls. However, due to
transportation difficulties, the movement of all materials
may have to be under control to assure that all essential mate-
rials have priority of movement from sources of supply to
plant facilities and then end-products distributed according
to need.
As a general rule production of items not on M.G.'s
priority listing of requirements or beyond the amounts M.G.
allocates to meet its objectives should be allowed provid-
ing (1) it does not require utilization of facilities banned
by M.G. because of their war-potential character (2) does
not utilize materials in short supply and (3) does not im-
pede the movement of priority raw materials and end-products.
In other words, M.G. need concern itself directly only with
its own priority production programs and limit its concern
with all other production to see that it des not interfere
with M.G.'s production programs nor break security objectives
with respect to disarmament or utilize banned facilities
ordered shut down for whatever reason by M.G. authorities.
Local .G. authorities should permit, under their gen-
eral supervision, the production of items not included in the
above lists, which require only local matrials and which are
essential to meet civilian needs either locally or elsewhere,
or for the export insofar as their production does not inter-
fere with the fulfillment of the above priority program.
There are three major ways in which to control produc-
tion programs, namely through the granting of priorities, of
allocations, and of credits.
A. Priorities.
16 041 p34 bu

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
Priorities should be established to maintain at the
highest feasible level the production of:
1. Products of first priority which are those re-
quired by military forces, both in the pre-surrender and
post-surrender periods, and the fuels, materials, equlpment
including maintenance and repair items, required to produce
them.
2. Products of second priority which are those re-
quired to supply minimum essential civilian requirements
such as food products, medical supplies, clothing and tex-
tiles, bicycles, household equipment, sanitation supplies,
soad; liquid and solid fuels, fertilizers and the fuels,
materials and equipment, including repair and maintenance
items, required to produce them.
3. Products of third priority (possibly occuring
only in the post-surrender period) to supply goods for ex-
port, the first charge against which will be for the pur-
chase of essential imports to meet above production prior-
ities.
B. Allocations.
Japanese authorities operating under M.G. should be
ordered to allocate fuels, raw materials, semi-finished and
finished goods, items for maintenance and repairs on the
following priority basis:
1. To meet the requirements of the armed forces.
2. To meet transportation requirements to meet
civilian peeds for agricultural products, the
processing of food products, medical supplies,
sanitation supplies, soap and fertilizers.
3. To meet requirements for the production of cloth-
ing, textiles and footwear, farm equipment and
implements, bicycles, and household equipment.
4. To meet any authorized export requirements.
C. Credits.
M.G. through its control over the financing facilities
of the Bank of Japan (see Guide on Control and Use of the
16 041 p35 bu

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
- 32 -
Bank of Japan durinz tre period of Military Government) will
have in its hands an instrument for supplementing its priority
and allocation controls. The devastation caused by the war
and the attendant shortages of raw materials and capital goods
accompanied by rising prices will necessitate the extension of
credit to enterprises authorized by M.G. to produce essential
materials. By coordinating credit authorizations with prior-
ity allocations, M.G. can channel the flow of scarce materials
into the enterprises producing priority zoods. As states in
the guide on Control and Use of the Bank of Japan, Section on
Financing of Industrial Activities "in cases in which corporate
funds are inadequate and bank loans are not readily avallable,
industrial enterprises essential for the administration and
maintenance of the minimum civilian economy of the country
should be permitted direct access to the financing facilities
of the Bank of Japan. For these purposes, the Bank of Japan
should undertake directly those types of industrial finance,
operations which were formerly performed by the Industrial
Bank of Japan and other banks. It should provide short-term
credit to industrial enterprises by discounting three to nime
months bills secured by contracts with orders of the Civil Af-
fairs and other military authorities, or Japanese governmental
organs with the approval of ths Civil Affairs authorities."
Reorganized local commercial and industrial associations
(Kumiai) made up in large part of cooperative enterprises and
small and medium-sized business producing consumer's goods
should especially receive the support of M.G. in the way au-
thorized credit extensions as most of the members will have
no funds while many of them will have been forced out of pro-
ductlon for civilian use by the war economy.
The adoption of a liberal credit policy with respect to
small and medium-sized local producers of civilian goods for
the domestic market will relieve M.G. of many of its most press-
ing problems. As these incentive goods start flowing into the
markets farmers will be led to expand production of foodstuffs,
curtailing inflationary trends and permitting a gradual relax-
ing of rationing and price controls.
In the case of larger established enterprises with
whose products M.G. is concerned the Bank of Japan should make
advances on the security of government bonds, corporate de-
bentures, equipment certificates and general mortgages on in-
dustrial properties.
IV. Recommendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
control agencies and control regulations.
16 041 p36 bu

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
- 33 -
A. General Recommendations. In zeneral M.G. at the out-
set of the occupation should maintain in force laws and re-
gulations relating to the conirol of industry and allocation
of fuels, power, raw naterials, semi-finished gooda, items
for maintenance and repair subject to subsequent directives
from higher authorities as to amendments, abrogation, etc.
Likewise M.G. at the outset should maintain or re-establish
local agencies responsible for the administration and enforce-
ment of such laws and regulations as are maintained in force
and require officials and employees of such agencies, to con-
tinue with or return to their functions.
The principles governing the utilization, abrogation, or mod-
ification of existing Japanese controls should have two major
objectives. First, the re-direction of the flow of materials
from war production into civilian production channels and the
production of equipment for the restoration and maintenance
of essential transportation and public utilities. Wartime
restrictions on the utilization of materials for such purposes
and to meet M.C. priority production programs should be re-
laxed. Secondly, in accordance with long-range U.S. nolicy
objectives, M.G. should exercise its controls and reorganize
or abolish Japanese agencies in order to re-direct Japanese
war-time economy into a free enterprise, competitive economy
in which small and medium-sized enterprises are unstiffled
by excessive government controls or by the cartels and the com-
bines. By according small and medium-sized enterprises demo-
cratic representation in the conduct of the affairs of the as-
sociations to which they belong, by giving them a strong posi-
tion in any advisory councils and by granting them higher
priorities than the large enterprises and combines, that have
sided and abetted the war policies of Japan, with respect to
power, credits and raw materials, M.G. can help these smaller
enterprises to get on their feet first. The hope of encourag-
ing the emergence of a democratic Japan resting upon a strong
middle class lies in the strength and position of the small
and medium-sized producers and distributors in the economy.
From the outset of the occupation M.G. can give a bent and di-
rection to Japanese economy which will hasten the achievement
of long-range U.S. objectives. There is every reason to be-
lieve that such an economic policy would meet with wide-spread
approval in Japan, and lead to the cooperation of the people as
a whole with M.G.'s programs.
16 041 p37 bu

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
- 34 -
B. Utilisation of Japanese control agencies at the nation-
al level.
Whether or not M.G. deals with or replaces the Minis-
tries, the Munitions Ministry should be abolished and such of
its war-time functions and controls as are needed to obtain M.G.
objectives should be transferred back to the old-line Ministries
together with unpurged personnel, and its records preserved.
The designated 400 odd munitions companies, which operated under
its supervision and under the more direct control and super-
vision of the Army and Navy Ministries, should, in principle be
closed down and only those most essential and most readily con-
vertible to line of production in which M.G. is interested be
re-opened (for details and exceptions see industry guides and
the guide on war industries). M.G.'s policy should be to favor,
first, small and medium-sized plants which contimued to produce
commodities during the war in which M.G. is interested, and
secondly, such small and medium-sized plants as were more or
less converted to war production on a contract or sub-contract
basis with the designated munitions companies. Any large muni-
tions plants M.G. might need to operate should be operated
directly under M.G. supervision in accordance with general
policy directives and the recommendations in the respective
industry guides.
M.G. in accordance with procedures set forth in the appropriate
Property Guide, should directly concern itself with assets,
property and facilities of all National Policy Companies and
all Bidan or public corporations. (See Part II, B, 3 and d).
Insofar as M.G. finds it useful to contimue the operation of
any of the facilities of government managed or owned agencies
and monopolies or utilize their organization and materials it
may do so. It is conceivable, for example, that the Koeki
Eidan, which controls foreign trade, might be utilized should
M.G. be confronted with the necessity of assembling commodities
for export, or the Emergency Housing Eidan might be utilised
for building barracks, etc.
C. Utilization of Japanese control agencies at the region-
al and local levels.
The large extent to which Japan has decentralized its
operational controls on a regional basis, as discussed above
Part II, C, forms the basis for the recommendations below
that M.G. do likewise and base its operational controls at
that level and subordinate prefectural agencies of control to
16 041 p38 bu

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
- 35 -
the regional set-up. Production programs and controls could
then be centralised and coordinated on a regional basis and
Japanese agencies and mechanisms could be more readily adapted
and utilised. The Regional Superintendents General Offices
could be charged with the responsibility for developing pro-
grams. The Munitions Superintendence Bureans attached to
such offices should be abolisbed and replaced by a central
planning and control unit. It is suggested that there be at-
tached to the offices of M.G.'s regional production agencies
advisory counoils made up of representatives of industrial
and commercial interests of the region. Such coundils should
adequately represent small and medium sised interests who
should hold a majority of the places on the counoils and be
able to out-vote representatives of large firms having facil-
ities in a specifie region. The chairman of the councils
should be democratically selected by the members subject only
to the approval of M.G. The regional organisations of the
Commercial and Industrial Boards, discussed above Part II, D,
should be utilised and adapted to fit this advisory function.
with the majority of the 400 odd munitions companies plants
either destroyed prior to occupation or shut down by M.G.,
the facilities left available for approved production pro-
grams will be those vertically organized into the Control
Societies (Tosei-kai) and their subsidiary Content Associa-
tions (Tose1 Kumiai), (for a description of these see Part
II, B, 3a). The Control Society itself is a quasi-govern-
mental control agency as the Chairman and Board of Directors
were government appointed and had transferred to them offi-
cial administrative powers. Through them the government has
been able to extend its control over all industry down to the
small locally organised Kumiai or industrial or commercial
associations. In order to establish a free-enterprise, com-
petitive economy the Control Societies and Control Associa-
tions should be abolished and thair assets and property placed
under oustody and the Kumiai reorganised along voluntary co-
operative lines on a local or prefectural basis. Equal voting
rights should be assured to prevent renewed domination of the
Kumiai by the large concerns representing the combines who in
the past have, through finanoial controls and cartelisation
techniques, tended either to force them to merge or to go out
of business. Since 1937 and to a greater extent after 1941
thousands of small producers supplying the domestic consumers
and to some extent foreign markets have been forced out of
business pressure from the government and combines. In the
post-surrender period many of them will seek to get back into
their former production and distribution activities again.
10 061 030 b

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
- 36 -
The great demand for locally produced consumer goods will give
them an enticing market. M.G. should encourage them by allow-
ing them to reorganise along cooperative democratic lines, al-
locate materials and equipment to them and grant them credits.
The restraints and controls exercised by the Control Societies
under government direction on a nation-wide basis should be
abolished. As recommended above the regional and central Con-
trol Societies' offices, records and staffs, below that of
Presidents and Directorys can be utilized by M.G. to obtain
over-all information on the regional set-up of the industry
as it obtains at the time of occupation for H.G.'s planning
and control purposes.
As M.G.'s first problems with respect to Japan's economy will
probably arise at the sub-prefectural and prefectural level
the above policy vis-a-vie the small and medium sised local
producers of civilian goods should be put into effect at the
outset. By encouraging the existing and former local pro-
ducers and distributors freely to organise themselves, as they
will instinctively want to do, into cooperative, and demo-
oratically run organisations M.G. will at one and the same
time relieve itself of many problems connected with consumer
goods production and re-orientate Japanese economy to peace-
time production for the domestic market, first, and ultimate-
ly to the kind of export production Japan may be permitted
to engage in.
V. Recommendations concerning the utilisation of Japanese
porsonnel.
In consonance with the general policy directives with
respect to the principles set up covering the utilisation of
Japanese personnel, officials and others, or in accordance
with prepared lists of people to be purged, M.G. should avoid
using all officials who since July 7, 1937 have held positions
of Shin-nin and Choku-pin ranks or positions of equivalent im-
portance in the Japanese government ministries, regional and
prefectural offices and control agencies; all Presidents,
Directors, and members of Boards of Trustees of the Control
Societies and Control Associations; high executives of National
Policy Companies and Eidan; governmentally designed individuals
responsible for production in the Munitions Companies, the top
officials in charge of the Munitions Superintendence Bureaus,
Chairman or heads of Economic Industrial Boards, etc. Japanese
who have held similar high-ranking positions outside of Japan;
who have been in active military or naval service since July 7,
194l; who have held directive positions in the Imperial Rule
16 041 p40 bu

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
Assistance Associations or its successors together with their
affiliated organisations; and those who have been members of
"patriotic societies" of extreme nationalist tendencies should
not be utilised.
VI. Recommendation concerning the protection of records,
plants, etc.
M.G. should hold designated Japanese officials and
omployees of quasi-governmental agencies, officials and em-
ployees of industrial and other business associations and of
individual companies and organisations strictly responsible
for the protection from destruction and the preservation in-
tact of all funds, property, equipment, and records of all
government agencies; all plants, mines, property, stocks of
materials on hand, equipment and patents; and all books and
records of companies and organisations and trade and research
associations.
VII. Recommendations concerning reporting.
It is recommended Japanese officials and such govern-
mental and quasi-governmental agencies, private organisations
and individuals as may be designated by M.G. be required to
submit initial reports and thereafter current reports covering
the following points.
A. For each factory or establishment employing or capable
of employing 10-15 (possibly 30) or more employees (a) name
and location; (b) stocks on hand, supplies and finished goods
on hand, capacity and current production; (c) how much electrio
power or fuel, lubricants, raw material, machinery and machine
tools, and manpower is necessary to maintain full production;
(d) feasibility of converting a war plant to other production
and equipment required to do so; (e) patents and processes em-
ployed; (f) current state of equipment and repair items needed,
eto.
B. Reporting on establishments employing 10-15 (possibly 30)
or less employees, it is suggested might be done on a sub-pre-
fectural territorial basis such as the mure or groups of mirs
by the associations or cooperatives (kumiai) into which they
are organized placing upon the associations responsibility
therefor.
C. For each prefeoture designated Japanese officials, as-
sisted by an advisory council democratically representative of
16 041 p41 bu

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-38-
of small, medium and large sized commercial, agricultural,
and industrial interests in the area should prepare an over-
all report on a quarterly basis setting forth:
1. Minimum civilian requirements for food, clothing,
household equipment, medical supplies, eto; to-
gether with current prices for same.
2.
What portion of these requirements can be met by
local production using local materials consequently
showing what finished products and raw materials
must be brought into the prefecture.
3. What surplus production for distribution elsewhere
the prefecture is capable of supplying.
What essential public utilities and services need
repair and restoration to maintain essential eoo-
nomy and what supplies will be needed.
5. A consus of the prefecture on an age, ocoupation,
and residential basis. The census should show
number of displaced persons in prefecture, in-
cluding family relatives who did not live in pre-
fecture before war started, and the number of
aliens including Koreans.
6. Any other reports required by the regional or cen-
tral control agencies to inform them on conditions
locally or which would enable them to determine
what portion of Japanese wartime controls to util-
ise to attain M.G. objectives in consonance with
U.S. long-range policy vis-à-via Japan.
7. The M.G. rogional agencies might utilise the re-
cords and personnel of regional branch offices of
the Control Associations to report on membership
status, facilities, production capacities, condition,
and raw material requirements of all individual and
group or association members (Tosei-Kaisha and Tosei
Kumiai).
They should also be asked to report on what equipment
would be necessary to convert to civilian pro-
duction. Each major concern might be required to
report percentage of production which went into
mmitions and what percentage went into civilian
16 041 p42 bu

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
- 39 -
meeds. This would afford a basis upon which to
allocate materials to concerns or associations
that had retained during the war a predominately
civilian line of production and could continue
to produce without the necessity of converting.
Facilities utilised directly or indirectly for
mmitions purposes should obtain lowest priority
or be entirely shut down. Those putting out
mumitions end-products will of course be shut
dowm. The Control Societies as such, however,
should be abolished as recommended above under
Iv, o.
vIII. Recommendation concerning sabotage and the enforoement
of M.G. Controls.
Through its controls over the flow of vital materials
M.G. has in its hands the power to lessen or increase that
flow to areas or regions in accordance with the degree of
cooperation obtained. In areas or regions where sabotage is
frequent or widespread, where materials are misused or pro-
duction schedules are not maintained without. justifiable
reasons, the allocations of power or materials to such re-
gions or areas can be curtailed. An other words, punishment
should not be limited to individuals or even to plants unless
cases of sabotage, etc. are few and widely scattered, but
should be extended to the whole community or area. This
would fix responsibility on the area as a whole and engender
cooperation with M.G. in suppressing sabotage, and in meet-
ing produotion schedules. In no case should materials be
cut off to the point where minimus essential civilian needs
cannot be met. Rather the emphasis should be on regarding
areas that cooperate by inoreasing the availability of civil-
ian supplies, while designated Japanese officials and individ-
uals or associations could be held initially responsible for
enforcing controls and meeting production schedules.
IX. Suggestions concerning Military Government's organisation
for the administration of production programs.
A. Central Organisation.
It is suggested that M.G., because of its concern in
produotion programs as outlined above, set up at central head-
quarters a production control agency which will include a plan-
ning and control unit. This unit, on the basis of reports sub-
mitted by the functional units of the central agency as to
16 041 p43 bu

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
- 40 -
requirements, and the availability of facilities and mate-
rials in the occupied region as a whole, could draw up pri-
ority production schedules and allocate production quotas,
key raw materials, credit, and power accordingly and deter-
mine the distribution of the end-products in accordanoe with
the needs of M.G. first, of the civilian population, second-
ly, and eventually if and when foreign trade is resumed, to
determine what proportion of the production in any given
line shall be made available for export. Such programming
and allocating should be worked out from the outset if pos-
sible on a quarterly basis bearing in mind in that connec-
tion that the Japanese controlled production year extends
from April 1 to March 30 and the first quarter thus covers
the months of April, May and June.
Because of the unavailibility at present of detailed
data as to the Japanese techniques, forms and procedures
for over-all programming and allocating for the consumer
economy, it is suggested that M.G. in its planning utilize
the experience of the War Production Board and study its
techniques, forms and procedures.
In order to supply the planning and control unit with
the data it requires to carry out its over-all planning and
control func ions and in order to take supervisory responsi-
bility for the fulfillment of production programs M.G. will
probably need to establish functional units covering liquid
and solid fuels, mining, industry, public works and utilities,
transportation, and if and when foreign trade is resumed, a
foreign trade unit, etc. These units could advantageously
be broken down further into end-product, sub-units. The in-
dustry unit, for example, could have sub-units dealing with
textiles and clothing items in general, chemicals, building
materials, metal processing and metal goods, manufacture of
light and heavy electrical goods, consumer goods, etc.
These units and sub-units on the basis of their own
investigations and on reports submitted by the agency's
branches in the occupied regions could make reports as to
requirements and as to the availability of facilities, mate-
rials and power to meet these requirements. Operationally
they could determine in accordance with policy directives,
whioh facilities should be operated to produce the materials
and goods required and what proportion of one total each ter-
ritorial nit should produce. They could determine the dis-
tribution flow of end-products to meet M.G. requirements
first; minimm consumer economy needs secondly, and into
16 041 p44 bu

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-41 -
foreign trade channels in the third place in accordance with
policy determinations as to priorities. In all these opera-
tions they should conform to the allocation and priority
decisions of the central planning and control unit.
B. Regional and prefectural organisation.
At the outset of the occupation the central produo-
tion control agency could exercise direct control in the
initial prefectures or region occupied (for a description
of the region into which Japan has been divided see Part II, Sec-
tion III and Appendix I). Às the occupation progresses the central
agency might continue directly to control production in the
metropolitan area or prefecture where its headquarters may
be located and supervise the sub-branches in the other pre-
fectures belonging to the region where it is located. In
all other partially or wholly occupied regions it could
establish regional branches modelled structurally after the
central agency subject to the peculiar productive capabilities
of the region. It might be the responsibility of the region-
al branches, on the basis of their own direct investigations
in the prefecture in which they are located and on the basis
of reports and recommendations submitted by the sub-branches
in the other prefectures within their respective regions, to
draw up requirements for the region as a whole, submit to the
central agency inventories of supplies of raw material, con-
dition and nature of processing facilities and what equipment
and repairs would be needed to put them into operation or to
convert them from production of munitions to production of
items required to meet M.G. production programs. In accord-
ance with allocations of materials and production quotas
worked out by the central agency on the basis of the reports
thus submitted, the regional branch could reallocate its over-
all regional quotas among the prefectures within its region,
In the case of large manufacturing units it might be more fea-
sible for the regional branch to allocate materials directly
to such plants and to exercise a more direct supervision over
such plants wherever situated in its region.
16 041 p45 bu

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
10
041 p46 bu
Appendix I
Administrative Regions of Japan - 1945
Regional Administrative
Location of
Districts and Regional
Prefectures
Ofrices of Regional
Army Districts
Mumitions Superintendencies
Included in Region
Superintendents-Geperal
Northern
Hokkai
Hokkaido (including
Sapporo
Karafuto)
Tohoku
Tohoku
Aomori, Iwate, Miyagi,
Sendai
Akita, Yamagata,
Eastern
Kanto-Shinetsu
Fukushima. Ibaragi,
Tokyo
Toohigi, Guma, Saitama,
Chiba, Tokyo, Kanagawa,
Iamanashi, Niigata, Nagano.
Tokai
Tokai-Hokuriku
Gifu, Shisuoka, Aichi, Mie,
Nagoya
Ishikawa, Toyama
Kinki
Kinki
Shiga, Kyoto, Osaka, Hyogo
Osaka
Nara, Wakayama, Fukui
Chugokm
Chugoka
Tottori, Shimane, Okayama,
Hiroshim
Hiroshima, Yamaguchi
Shikokm
Shikoku
Tokushima, Kagawa, Ehime,
Takamatsu
Kochi
Western
Kyushu
Fukuoka, Saga, Nagasaki,
Fukuoka
Kumamoto, Oita, Miyasaki,
Kagoshima, Okinawa
(As of June 1945)

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
APPENDIX II
National Mobilisation Law of Japan
Law No. 19 of 1941
Promulgated March 1, 1941
Article 1. The term national general mobilisation as
used in this law denotes the control and operation of human
and material resources in order that the nation may be enabled
to display its total power most effectively for the realisa-
tion of national defense purpose in time of war (inoluding an
incident corresponding with a war, the same applying correspond-
ingly to the following parts).
Article 2. The term general mobilisation goods in
this law denotes things listed below:
1. Armaments, war vessels, ammunitions and other mili-
tary goods.
2. Garments, foodstuffs, beverages and fodders which
are necessary for national general mobilisation.
3. Medicines, medical instruments, other sanitary
materials which are necessary for national gen-
eral mobilisation.
Ships, airplanes, rolling stock and vehicles,
horses, and other materials for transportation
which are necessary for national general mobili-
sation.
5. Goods for communications which are necessary for
national general mobilisation.
6. Engineering and building materials and goods for
lighting system which are necessary for national
general mobilisation.
7. Fuels and electric power which are necessary for
national general mobilisation.
8. Raw and other materials, machines and tools,
equipment and other goods which are necessary
for the production, repair distribution and
conservation of each of the foregoing stipula-
tions and
16 041 p47 bu

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
9. Goods besides each of the foregoing which mey be
designated by Imperial Ordinanoes as necessary
for mational general mobilisation.
Artigle 3. General mobilisation businesses under this
law denote those which are listed below:
1. Businesses relating to the production, repair,
distribution, exportation, importation and stor-
ing of general mobilisation goods.
2. Businesses relating to transportation and communics-
tions which are necessary for national general
mobilisation.
3. Businesses relating to money and banking which
are necessary for national general mobilisation.
4. Businesses relating to sanitation, veterinary
sanitation and relief.
5.
Businesses relating to education and training
which are necessary for national general mobili-
sation.
6. Business relating to experiments and researches
which are necessary for national general mobili-
sation.
7. Businesses relating to information and campaign
of education which are necessary for national
general mobilisation.
8. Businesses concerning guarding which is necessary
for national general mobilisation.
9. Businesses besides each of the foregoing which
may be désignated by Imperial Ordinances as nec-
essary for national general mobilisation.
Article 4. In time of war the Government if necessary
for national general mobilisation may enlist subjects of the
Empire and place them in general mobilisation businesses in ac-
cordance with provision of Imperial Ordinances. This provi-
sion does not prevent the application of the Conscription Law,
however.
16 041 p48 bu

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
- 45 -
Article 5. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may cause subjects of the
Empire or juridical persons or other organisations of the Em-
pire to oooperate with the State or local public organise-
tions or other persons designated by the Govermment.
Article 6. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may issue orders which
are necessary regarding the use, employment or discharge or
assumption of offices or assumption of service or retire-
ment of employees or wages, salaries and other working condi-
tions, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 7. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may issue necessary or-
ders regarding the prevention or settlement of labor disputes
or the closing of plants, suspension of operations, or re-
striction or prohibition of acts relating to labor disputes, in
accordance to provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 8. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation may issue necessary orders regarding the
production, repair, distribution, transfer or other disposal,
uses, consumption, holding and movement of goods, in accord-
ance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 9. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may restrict or prohibit
exportation or importation, or may impose export duties or im-
port duties, or may increase or decrease export duties or im-
port duties, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordi-
nances.
Article 10. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may use or expropriate or
cause a person who administers general mobilisation business
to use or expropriate general mobilisation goods, in accord-
ance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article ll. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war mmy restrict or prohibit
the establishment or corporations, capital increases, consoli-
dations, changes in the purposes of businesses flotation of de-
bentures or the second subsequent calls for umpaid portions of
capital; and my issue orders regarding disposition of'corpor-
ation profits, writing off of fixed assets or other matters
concerning accounting; and also may issue orders against banks,
trust companies, insurance companies and others designated by
16 041 p49 b

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
-46
Imperial Ordinances regarding the operation of their funds, or
undertaking or guaranteeing monetary obligations.
Article 12. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may make special arrange-
ments in accordance with Imperial Ordinances, and irrespective
of the provisions of Article 200 or 210 of the Commercial Code,
with respect to flotation of debentures or capital increase of
a corporation engaged in a general mobilisation business to
meet expenses for equipment belonging to said corporation.
Article 13. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may manage or use or ex-
propriate the whole or part of factories or workshops or ves-
sels and other facilities belonging to a gemeral mobilisation
business or other facilities which are convertible into it, in
accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
In case of use or expropriation of things listed in the
foregoing clause the Government may cause the owner of them to
offer the operatives, or may operate patent inventions or re-
gistered utility models which are actually operated in the
said facilities, in accordance with provision of Imperial
Ordinances.
The Government if necessary for national general mo-
bilisation in time of war may manage, use or expropriate
land, houses or other establishments which are necessary for
goneral mobilisation businesses, or may cause a person who
administers a general mobilisation business to use or expro-
priate them, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinancos.
Article 14. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may use or expropriate
the mining rights or rights relating to the use of water, and
may cause a person who administers a general mobilisation
business to operate patent inventions or registered new utility
models or to use the mining rights or rights relating to the
use of water.
Article 15. When things expropriated by the Government
under the provisions of the preceding two Articles have become
out of use, and in case they are to be sold within a period
of 10 years following their expropriation, or when things ex-
propriated by a person who conducts a general mobilisation
business under the provisions of Article 13, Paragraph 3, have
become out of use within a period of 10 years following their
expropriation, the former owners or former holders of the rights
16 0€1 p50 bu

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
- 47-
or legitimate successore to them may buy them back on a pre-
ferential basis, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances.
Article 16. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may restrict or prohibit
establishment or extension or improvement of equipment be-
longing to a general mobilization business, or may order the
establishment or extension or improvenent of equipment be-
longing to a general mobilisation business, in accordance
with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
(2) The Government if necessary for national goneral
mobilization in time of war way issue necessary orders con-
cerning transfer or other disposal of, investments in, use
and removal of, equipment belonging to a general mobilisa-
tion business, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances.
(3) The Government if necessary for national general
mobilization in time of war may issue necessary orders re-
lating to the assumption, entrusting, joint management,
transfer, abolition or suspension of business, or changes
in business objectives or consolidation or dissolution of
corporations, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances.
Article 17. The Government if necessary for natlonal
general mobilization in time of war may cause the proprietors
of the same or different kinds of enterprises to obtain ap-
proval of the Government regarding the conclusion or change
or abolition of an agreement or agreements on control of the
respective enterprises, or may order then to conclude or
change or cancel control agreement or agreements among them-
selves, or may order the participants to act in accordance
with the said control agreement or agreements, in conformity
with provision of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 18. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war the Government, in accordance with pro-
visions of Imperial Ordinances, may cause the proprietors
of the same or different kinds of enterprises or their organi-
zations to control the said enterprises or order them to
establish an organization or corporation with the object of
oparating for the control.
16 041 P51 bu

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
- 48 -
An organisation which is to be established under the
foregoing provisions shall be a juridical person.
When persons who have been ordered to establish an or-
ganisation in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1
have failed to establish it, the Government may take neoessary
measures regarding the preparation of articles or association
or other matters relative to its establishment.
When an organization has been established in accord-
ance with the provisions of Paragraph 1, the Government may
cause pereons who have qualifications as the constituent mem-
bers of the said organization to become the constituent mem-
bers of the said organisation.
The Government may cause an organisation which has
been established in accordance with the provisions of Para-
graph 1 to obtain approval of the Government regarding the
adoption or change or abolition of its control regulations
pertaining to enterprises of its constituent members (includ-
ing the constituent members of the latter, this applying
correspondingly to the following parts), or order it to
adopt or change the control regulations, or may order its
constituent members or persons who are qualified to be its
constituent members to act in conformity with the control
regulations.
Matters pertaining to an organization or a corpora-
tion under the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed
by Imperial Ordinances.
(2) In case the Government has ordered the transfer of
facilities or rights, or investments under the provisions
of Article 16, Paragraph 2, or has ordered the transfer of
an enterprise under the provisions of Article 16, Para-
graph 3, necessary matters relating to the sucoession to
obligations of the transfer or investor or disposition of
their security shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinances.
(3) Regarding the transfer of facilities or rights, or
investment under the provisions of Article 16, Paragraph
2; or transfer of an enterprise or consolidation of cor-
porations under the terms of Article 16, Paragraph 3; or
an organization of a corporation established in accordance
with the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1 or 3; the
government, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances, may set up exceptions pertaining to calculations
of the standard of tax levy, or may make arrangements for
reduction or exemption of taxes.
16 041 p52 bu

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
- 45 -
Article 19. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation in time of war the Government, in accordanoe with pro-
visions of Imperial Ordinances, may issue necessary orders,
regarding price, transportation charge, storage, insurance
premium, rentals, processing charge, repairing charge or
rates of other payments on property.
Article 20. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war the Government may restrict or prohibit
the insertion of articles in newspapers or other publications,
in accordance with prohibition of Imperial Ordinances.
The Government may prohibit sales and distribution of
newspapers or other publications containing items which hin-
der the national general mobilisation in violation of restrio-
tion or prohibition under the foregoing provisions, and may
attach them. In this case the Government also may attach
their original plates.
Article 21. The Government, whenever it deeme it nec-
essary for national general mobilization, may cause subjects
of the Empire or the employers of Japanese subjects to re-
port regarding the occupational ability of the Japanese subjects,
or may conduct examination concerning the occupational ability
of the Japanese subjects.
Article 22. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation may issue necessary orders against the
administrators or managers of schools, training institutes,
factories, workshops and other institutions suitable for
training technicians or the employers of persons who are to
be trained, regarding training of technicians necessary for
national general mobilisation.
Article 23. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation the Government, in accordance with provisions of Im-
perial Ordinances, may cause a person who is engaged in the
production, sales or importation of general mobilisation
goods to hold a certain fixed quality of the said goods or
raw or other materials thereof.
Article 24. If necessary for general mobilisation
the Government, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances, may cause the proprietor of a general mobilisa-
tion enterprise or a person who shall have to operate a
general mobilization enterprise in time of war to formu-
late a plan regarding general mobilisation business which is
to be operated in time of war or may cause him to conduct
exercises and training on the basis of the said plan.
16 041 p53 bu

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-50 -
Article 25. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation may order a person who is engaged in the
production or repair of general mobilisation goods or the ad-
ministrator of an experimental and research institute to con-
duot experiments and researches.
Article 26. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation the Government, in accordance with provisions of Im-
perial Crdinances, may guarantee a certain fixed amount of
profit or grant subsidy within the limit of its budget for a
person who is engaged in the production or repair of general
mobilization goods. In this case, the Government may cause
the said person to produce or repair general mobilisation
goods or to install equipment necessary for general mobilisa-
tion.
Article 27. The Government in accordance with provi-
sions of Imperial Ordinance, shall compensate losses that may
arise from measures taken under the stipulations of Articles
8, 10, 13, 14 or Artiole 16, Paragraph 2; orders of exporta-
tion and importation issued according to the provisions of
Article 9, orders regarding capital accommodation, subscrip-
tion to securities, underwriting or purohass of securities,
acceptance of obligations or guarantee of obligations under
the provisions of Article ll; orders regarding the establish-
ment or extension or improvement of equipment under the pro-
visions of Article 16; or orders regarding commission, trans-
fer, abolition or suspension of an enterprise or orders re-
quiring changes in the business purposes or dissolution of a
corporation under the provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 3,
except the cases under Paragraph 2 of this Article.
A person who administers general mobilisation business
shall compensate losses that may arise in case of this use,
expropriation or operation under the provisions of Article 10,
Article 13, Paragraph 3 or Article 14, in accordance with
provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 28. In case the Government issues orders un-
der the provisions of Articles 22, 23, or 25, it shall coa-
pensate losses arising therefrop or grant monetary subsidy,
in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 29. The amount of compensation as under the
provisions of the preceding two articles and purchase value
as under the provisions of Article 15 shall be determined by
16 041 p54 bu

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
- 51 -
the Government after consultation with the General Mobilisa-
tion Compensation Commission.
Rules governing the General Kobilisation Compensation
Commission shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinance.
Article 30. The Government shall supervise all enter-
prise that receives the guarantee of profit or subsidy money
under the provisions of Articles 26 or 28, and may issue or-
ders or take measures which are necessary in this connection.
Article 3l. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation the Government by order may demand reports or may have
the competent officials inspect necessary places and examine
business conditions or books or documents or other things.
(2) A person falling under either of the following
shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding 10 years
or a fine not exceeding 3 50,000:
1. A person who has violated an order or orders
issued under the provisions of Article 8.
2. A person who has violated an order or orders
issued under the provisions of Article 19.
Article 32. A person who, in violation of an order
issued under the provisions of Article 9, has exported or
imported goods or has attempted to do so, shall be subject
to penal servitude not exceeding three years or a fine not
exceeding 1 10,000.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, the goods
which the offender has exported or imported or attempted to
export or import, if in possession of the offender, be con-
fiscated. If it has been impossible to confiscate the
whole or a part of the said goods, their value may be added
to the fine.
Article 33. A person falling under either of the
following shall be subject to penal servitude not exoseding
three years or a fine not exceeding 1 5,000:
1. A person who has violated order or restriction
or prohibition under the provisions of Article 7.
2. A person who, in violation of the order under
the provisions of Article 9, fails to export
or import.
18 061 p55 D

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
- 52 -
3. A person who has refused or hindered or evaded
the use or expropriation of general mobilisa-
tion goods as under the provision of Article 10.
4. A person who has refused or hindered or evaded
the management or use or expropriation of faci-
lities, land or constructions, or offering of
the operatives as under the provisions of
Articlo 13.
Article 36. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to penal servitude not excseding two
years or a fine not exceeding 3 3,000:
1. A person who has violated restriction or prohibi-
tion as under the provisions of Article il.
2. A person who has violated restriction or prohibi-
tion or order as under the provisions of Arti-
c1e 16.
3. A person who has violated orders and under the
provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 2.
4. A person who has violated orders as under the
provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 3.
5. A person who in violation of the provisions
of Article 17 or Article 18, Paragraph 5, has
set up or changed or abolished a control agreement
without approval of the Governnent, or has
violated an order issued under the provisions
of Article 17 or Article 18, Paragraph 5.
6. A person who, in violation of the provisions of
Article 23, does not hold goods.
7. A person who, in violation of the provision of
Article 26 does not produce or repair or in-
stall equipment.
Artigle 35. A person who has committed a criminal
act under the preceding four Articles may be subjected to
concurrent imposition of penal servitude and fine.
Article 36. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding one
year or a fine not exceeding & 1,000:
14 045 p56 bu

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
- 53 -
1. A person who does not acced to expropriation
or does not execute the business as under the
provisions of Article 4.
2. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 6.
Article 37. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to a fine not exceeding * 3,000:
1. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 22.
2. A person who does not formulate a plrn or does
not execute trainings, in violation of an order
issued under the provisions of Article 24.
3. A person who does not conduct experiments and
researches, in violation of orders issued under
the provisions of Article 25.
Article 38. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to a fine not exceeding 3 1,000:
1. & person who, in violation of orders issued un-
der the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1,
fails to organise an organisation or corpor-
ation.
2. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 6.
3. A person who has violated an order disposi-
tion as under the provisions of Article 30.
4. A person who has neglected reporting or made
false report in violation or in order issued
under the provisions of Article 31.
Article 39. In case of a newspaper having violated re-
striction or prohibition as under the provisions of Article
20, Paragraph 1, its publisher and editor, and in case of
other publications their publishers or authors, shall be sub-
ject to penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding two
years or a fine not exceeding * 2,000:
In case of a newspaper, a person who actually was in
charge of editing one and who signed the artiole or arti-
cles involved, besides the editor, shall be subject to the
16 041 p87 Du

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
- 54 -
foregoing provisions.
Article 40. A person who hindered the execution of
attachment asunder the provisions of Article 20, Paragraph
2, shall be subject to penal servitude or imprisonment not
exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding  500.
Article 4l. The stipulations of the Criminal Code re-
garding concurrent crimes shall not be applicable to a crime
under the foregoing two articles.
Article 42. A person who has refused or hindered or
evaded the inspection by the competent officials as under
the provisions of Article 31 shall be subject to penal ser-
vitude not exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding  500.
Article 43. A person who, in violation of the provi-
sions of Article 21 has neglected reporting or refused or
hindered or evaded the inspection by the competent officials
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding % 50 or detention or
a minor fine.
Article 44. When a person, who is or has been en-
gaged in a general mobilisation business, has disclosed or
secretly used official secrets regarding general mobilisation
business designated by the competent Government offices
which he had come to knowledge of in relation with the exe-
cution of his business, he shall be subject to penal servi-
tude not exceeding two years or a fine not exoseding  2,000.
Article 45. When an official or a person who has been
engaged in official service has disclosed or secretly used
business secrets of a juridical or natural person which he
had come to kmowledge of in relation to the execution of
his duties under the provisions of this law, he shall be
subject to penal servitude not exceeding two years or fine
not exoeeding ¥ 2,000.
The provisions of the preceding clause shall apply
in case an officer or employee, or a person who has been an
officer or employee, of an organization or corporation es-
tablished for the purpose of controlling enterprises under
the provisions of Article 18, Paragraphs 1 or 3 or other
juridical person or other organization which administers
control by order on the basis of this law, has disclosed or
secretly used business secrets of a juridical or natural
person which he had come to kmowledge of in relation to the
execution of his duties.
16 041 p58 bu

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
- 55 -
Article 46. When an officer or employee of an organisa-
tion or corporation ostablished for the purpose of controlling
onterprises under the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1
or 3, or other juridical person or other organization which ad-
ministers control by order on the basis of this law, has re-
ceived or demanded or promised acceptance of, a bribe in con-
junction with his duties, he shall be subject to penal servi-
tude not exceeding two years. When the said person according-
ly has committed an impropar act or has not committed a proper
act, he shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding
five years.
The bribe received in the case of the foregoing clause
shall be confiscated. If the whole or a part of it could not
be confiscated, its value shall be levied on the said person.
Article 47. A person who has given or offered or pro-
mised a bribe to the person mentioned in the preceding clause,
shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding two years
or a fine not exceeding ¥500.
When a person who has committed a crime under the pre-
ceding clause, has surrendered himself to justice, the penalty
may be mitigated or he may be remitted.
Article 48. When a representative of a juridical per-
son or proxy of a juridical or natural person or other employee
or other operative thereof has committed an offense under the
provisions of Article 31, Paragraph 2 to Article 34, Article
36, Paragraph 2, Articles 37, 38 or the fore part of Article
43, the said juridiçal or natural person shall be subject to
a fine or minor fine provided in each of the above Articles,
in addition to the punishment of the said offense.
Article 49. The provisions of the preceding Article
shall be applied to an act committed in land outside the ter-
ritories where this law is in force by a representative or
proxy or employee or other operative of a juridical person,
who has his headquarters or main business office within the
territories where this law is in force. The same shall also
apply to an act committed in land outside the territories
where this law is in force by a representative or employee or
other operative of a natural person, who has his domicile
within the territories where this law is in force.
The penalty provision of this law shall be applied to
a subject of the Empire who has committed a crime in land
outside the territories where this law is in force.
16 041 P59..b0

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.96)
-56-
Artiale 50. The National General Mobilisation Commis-
sion shall be established to respond to inquires from the
Govemment regarding important matters relative to the en-
forosment of this law (exolusive of those pertaining to the
military rules).
Rules governing the National General Mobilisation Com-
mission shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinance.
Souroe:- Domei Tsushin She (The Overseas Department),
Wartime Legislation in Japan. Wippon Shoryo
Taushin Sha, Takyo, 1941, P. 30-62
10 041 p60 bu

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
APPENDIX III
Maior Provision of the Mumitions Company Act of October 28. 1943.
1. Under this law, munitions companies shall be those companies
that engages in enterprises nocessary (to supply) arms, air-
craft, warships, and other war materials, and shall mean those
designated by the Government, and the scope of the enterprises
in the preceding clause will be prescribed by order.
2. Munitions companies, heeding the demands of the State for in-
creased fighting strength, shall conform to the plans of the
Government and shall assume responsibility in the operation of
enterprises pertaining to sufficiency in mmitions.
3. With regard to munitions companies, as fixed by the orders (of
the Government), bans and restrictions imposed by laws shall
be cancelled, obligations shall be removed, and also special
regulations may be enacted in connection with procedures for
permits, and so forth.
4. The Government, under the stipulations of these main points,
in cases when it is deemed necessary to issue orders or to take
measures, may, under the provisions of the orders, guarantee
assistance as well as profits to munitions companies.
5.
Mumitions compenies must select a person responsible for pro-
duction from among the officials of the company. When
selection of a responsible person for production cannot be
made, the Government may appoint a person, in which case
the person appointed shall become an official of the com-
pany. The person responsible for production will represent
the mmitions company, and is appointed to the office for
the fulfillment of the obligations of increasing fighting
power.
6. The munitions company, without the approval of the Govern-
ment, may not dismiss the person responsible for production
who was selected by the Government. The Government will
designate to the mmitions companies time, plans, quantities,
and other necessary matters, and may issue orders embreeing
the manufacture and repair of goods necessary for sufficient
war materials.
7. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue orders to munitions companies or take measures
for the establishment of new precautionary installations,
the aoquisition, storage, and movement of basio materials,
10 041 p61 Du

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
-58 -
the improvement of technique, the supervision of (trade) and
labor, and other matters necessary to carry on the enterprise.
8. The Government may issue orders necessary for cooperation
between the munitions company and those (persons) conneoted
with carrying on the operation of cooperating factories,
and subsidiary factories, and other enterprises which the
munitions company conducts.
9. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue to munitions companies orders necessary in con-
nection with the taking over or taking custody of enter-
prises, the clarification (of articles of trust), or changes
in the articles of incorporation, the delegation, transfer,
or discontinuing or suspension of operations, (and) the trans-
fer of equipment or (patent rights) belonging to an enter-
prise.
10. The Government may restrict or ban the munitions company
from engaging in operations other than those designated by
the Government.
1l. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue orders necessary in connection with the amalgama-
tion or dissolution of munitions companies.
12. The Government, in accordance with the stipulations of the
orders, may issue orders to munitions companies necessary
to effect the adjustment and management of funds.
13. Persons responsible for production, or persons in charge
of production, in accordance with the provisions of the
orders, have the right to recruit workers as provided by
the National Mobilisation Law.
14. The staff and employees of munitions companies will be under
the orders of the person responsible for production, or the
person in oharge of production.
15. The Government may issue orders to mnitions companies, or
take necessary measures regarding supervision.
16. With regard to the business matters of munitions companies,
the Government may gather reports, as well as inspect or
examine them.
16.041 p62 bu

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
- 59 -
17. When the person responsible for production, or the person
in charge of production, does not fulfill his responsibility,
or when the staff and other employees of the mmitions com-
pany do not obey the orders of the persons responsible for
production, or the persons in charge of production, the
Government, in accordance with the provision of the order,
will find the means of imposing the nocessary punishment.
18. Necessary penal regulations shall be enacted.
19. These main points may be applied to companies other than
those engaged in the enterprises set forth in the first
clause.
16 041 P63 b

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
- 60 -
APPENDIX IV
ACTIVITIES OF THE MUNITIONS SUPERINTHIDENCE BUREAUS OF
THE MINISTRY OF MUNITIONS (ABSTRACT)
1. The vigorous activities of the Munitions Superintendence
Bureans.
The Munitions Superintendence Bureaus were formed with
the establishment of the Mumitions Ministry to undertake
the responsibility of increasing production. The law
provides that the Minister of Munitions shall establish
local or branch offices or the Ministry, whenever necessary
to divide the affairs of supervisions, control and manage-
ment of munitions factories and enterprises. And the mmi-
tions officials or mmitions superintendence officials shall
become the chiefs of local and branch offices of the Min-
istry. The primary purpose of establishing such local
offices is to control the munitions industry without a
single gap throughout the country and to push forward the
industry with an over-all efficiency.
Under the above provision of law, local offioes are located
in Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Niigata, Osaka, Hiroshima,
Matsuyama, and Fukuoka to divide the affairs of munitions
production in nine, (later eight areas) through the coun-
try. The Mumitions Superintendence officials in these
nine areas consist of former industrial staff members of
Commerce and Industry Ministry, Mining Superintendent Bureau
Officials, Labor Buriau Officials of Public Welfare Ministry
and Army and Navy Officials. The Munitions Superintendence
Chief shall direct all the officials in their supervision
of munitions production by distributing them to essential
factories and plants.
II. Special characteristics of the administration.
The special characteristics of Munitions Superintendence
Bureaus administration are as follows:
1) The unification of administration. The Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus and its officials are in charge
of the unified administration of production thrcughout the
country. They control capital, management, labor, price,
raw material distribution and motive power. Formerly
these were divided into ministries and departments.
2) The principle of production-first. Previously, the
industrial administration was divided according to the
legal rights of control and the actual work of production.
16 041 p64 bu

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
- 61 -
But the activities of the officials are not bound to such
divisions but the actual control and direction of produc-
tion. All activities are centered in the principle of
production-first.
3) The motivating characteristic. Compared with the
previous administration, the Munitions Superintendence
Bureaus has a more unified and wider scope of administra-
tion and management of munitions production which is typical
in wartime. It is richer in motivating power and creative
leadership.
III. The structure of the Mmition Superintendence Bureaus.
1) The General Affairs Section plans a unified arrange-
ment and control of labor and defense affairs.
2) The First Superintendent Section controls airoraft
production and its related weapons and machines.
3) The Second Superintendent Section undertakes the affairs
of machines, steel, light metals, chemicals and fuel that
were handled formerly by the old Commeree and Industry Min-
istry.
4) The Finance Section controls capital arrangement,
management, prices and price accounting.
5) The Blectric Power Section undertakes the affairs of
electric power and hydro-electric power.
The scope of each of these sections is wider. For inst-
ance, the Electric Power Section controls not only the
•lectric utilities of munitions factories and plants but
it controls the use of electricity in all places including
the use of electricity in therares. The First and Second
Superintendent Sections control a narrower scope than that
of the Electric Power Section but in essence they control
the most significant domains of airoraft and raw material.
IV. Problems that need to be adjusted.
The problems that confront the administration of the de-
partment are as follows:
1) Those that confront the munitions companies with their
responsibilities for production and the Munitions Superin-
tendence Bureaus.
16 041 P65 bu

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
- 62 -
2) Those relative to general local administration.
3) Those relative to controlled factories under the
Army and Mavy Ministries.
First, the munitions companies are responsible for pro-
duction and the Superintendence Bureau afficials are respon-
sible for the arrangement of production. It is natural
that some problems result from this relationship of pro-
duction and arrangement by the different bodies. But the
munitions companies must understand that they are designated
and assigned by the Government for production responsibility
while the Munitions Superintendence Bureaus officials are
appointed to give a hand in directing and guiding and to
encourage work in the plants. However, the orders of the
Munitions Ministry create a double responsibility. Thus,
for the second time, the 424 companies that have been under
the control of Ministries of Munitions, Army, Mavy and
Transportation have been brought under the direct control
of Munitions Superintendence Bureaus to avoid a double re-
sponsibility and to make a complete unification. All of
the 424 munitions companies which were designated by the
law of munitions companies are to be supervised by the
Superintendence Bureaus under the direction of the Govern-
mont.
10.041.0800

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
- 63 -
V. Characteristic differences.
Under the law of munitions companies, the designated companies
became munitions companies that must be operated under the orders of
the Government and the production responsibility is assigned to the
presidents of the different companies. Superintendent officials. are
sent to the actual places of operation, factories and plants, to give
all possible means of encouragement, direction and guidance in
production. Naturally the factory or plant owners have their own
production responsibilities but when the superintendent officials
express strong opinions as to how production should be or what manage-
ment should be, dissentions may occur. However, it is fortunate that
dissentions do not exist at all in the factories and plants because
the fundamental principle of production-first lies deeper in the
minds of producers and superintendent officials. The one goal is
the same because the supreme crder comes from the Ministry of Munitions.
Second, problems relative to the Superintendence Bureaus and
local administrations cannot be denied. A local factory that belongs
to a local administration must also belong to the administration of
Superintendence Bureaus which would create a double responsibility
for a local factory. But the presence of Superintendende officials
is in the local factories, cements the relationship and results in
inseparable connections between local and central, administration.
The Superintendence Bureaus Chief represents all local administra-
tions at conferences so that the direction and supervision of super-
intendent officials in localities will bring a closer connection
between the central and local administrations. Here again, the most
significant point of munitions production comes under the principle
of "The nation itself is the munitions production." The logical
differences are not the real problems.
Third, the problems relative to the Army and Navy controlled
factories and the supervision of the superintendent officials are
brought up. Logically there will be dirficulty in the double super-
vision by both over the one aim of production. But in reality, the
arrangement of Superintendence Bureaus for production is done by the
same officials of the Army and Navy Ministries. These officials are
the same officials of both the Superintendence Bureau and of the
Army and Navy.
SOURCE: - Diamond June 11, 1944.
10 0€2 p67 bu

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
-64-
APPENDIX V
MAJOR INDUSTRIES ORGANIZATION ORDINANCE 1/
Juyo Sangyo Dentai Rei)
(August 29, 1941)
CHAPTER I: General Rules
Article 1 -
This ordinance provides for the control of organisations
established for the purpose of controlling major industries. The
kinds of major industries (subject to this ordinanos) are cited
in Article 18 of the National General Mobilisation Law, (including
those industries referred to in Imperial Ordinance No. 317 of 1938).
Exceptions will be made for the enterprises for which separate
provisions are to be established.
Article 2 --
A Cabinet decree shall determine which major industries
are subject to this ordinance.
Article 3 --
The organizations established under the provisions of this
ordinance are called Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and Control
Associations (Tosei-Kumiai).
Any Control Society or Control Association, in designating
its title, shall use the characters for Control Society (
or Control Association (
). An exception (as to the use of
the character) may be made when the permission of the competent
Minister is obtained.
CHAPTER II: Control Society (Tosei-Kai)
Article 4 -
For the purpose of developing the national economic power to
the highest point the Control Society shall aim at promoting the
control and management of industry concerned; and the society shall
cooperate in carrying out national policy and the operation of the
industry concerned on national lines, according to the national policy.
1 The name of this Ordinance is alternatively translated as Key
Industries Organisation Control Ordinance.
18 041 p68 bu

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-65-
Article 5 --
The control societies are to be established by kind of industry.
Article 6 --
In order to accomplish the purpose (for which they are
established) the control societies shall perform the following
functions:
(a) Plan with the government the national program for
production and distribution in the industry concerned;
the means of supplying the labor, raw materials, capital
and any other demands of the industry concerned.
(b) Control and guide production and distribution in the
industry concerned. Do the same for any enterprises
belonging to the industry concerned, which are under-
taken by the members and organisers of member organiss-
tions of the society.
(c) Provide for the complete equipping of the industry
concerned.
(d) Develop techniques, increase the efficiency, unify
the techniques of production, reform the management of
the industry concerned and of the institutions undertaken
by the members and the organisers of the member organisa-
tions for the development of the enterprises belonging
to the industry concerned.
industry concerned.
(r)
Make investigations of the enterprises undertaken by
the members and organisers of the member organisations
of the industry concerned.
ment of the purpose of the Control Society besides
those mentioned above.
Article 7 --
Those who are qualified to be mombers of a Control Society
and are subject to appointment by the competent Minister are as
follows:
(a) Those who are engaged in the industry concerned.
(b) Organisations established by those who are engaged in
the industry concerned.
16 041'p60 bu

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
-66-
(c) Organizations composed of those members mentioned in
Section (a), and organizations composed of the organisa-
tions mentioned in Section (b).
Article 8 -
When the competent Minister intends to establish a control
society he shall order those who have the qualifications for member
ship, as provided in the preceding article, to organise a control
society in accordance with the provisions of a Cabinet decree.
When there is the order from the competent Minister to establish
a control society in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, a general organisational meeting shall be called in
accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decree. After considera-
tion of the Cabinet decree the meeting shall decide the articles of
the sooiety and the necessary matters to establish the control
society. Approval of the society must then be obtained from the
competent Minister.
Article 9 --
The following matters shall be written in the Articles of the
control society.
(a) Purpose.
(b) Title.
(c) Location of the office.
(d) Regulations concerning members.
(6) Regulations concerning officials.
(f) Regulations concerning meetings.
(g) Regulations concerning accounts.
Article 10 --
The existence of a control society becomes effective when the
approval mentioned in Paragraph 2, Article 8 is obtained, or when
the Articles of the Society are drawm up in accordance with the provisions
of Paragraph 3, Article 18 of the National General Mobilisation Law.
The competent Minister shall announce the purpose of establishing
the control society and its articles when the approval mentioned
in the preceding paragraph is obtained.
16 041 p70 bu

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
-67-
Article 11--
When a control society is established all those who have the
qualifications for membership are made members of the control society.
Article 12 --
The following officials shall be appointed in a control
society.
(a) President - one
(b) Directors - several
(e) Inspectors - several
(d) Mombers of the board of trustees - several
Two vice-presidents or less in addition to the officials
mentioned in the preceding paragraph and one chief-director may be
appointed in a control society depending on the Articles of the society.
Article 13 --
The president represents the control society. He controls
and guides the industry concerned and manages all the affairs of the
society.
The vice-presidents asaist the president. The (first) vice-
president, acoording to the sequence of the vice-presidents previously
decided by the president, substitutes for the president when be cannot
fulrill his duties. When the president's seat is vacant, the (first)
vice-president performe the official duties of the president.
The Chief Director assists the president and the vioe-presidents
in managing the affairs of the society. The chief director substitutes
for the president and the vice-presidents if they are not able to
fulfill their duties. He perform the official duties of the president
if the seats of the president and the vice-presidents are vacant.
The directors assist the president, the vice-presidents and
the Chief Director, and they manage the affairs of the society accord-
ingly. The (first) director, in accordance with the sequence of the
directors previously arranged by the president, substitutes for the
president in case the president, the vice-presidents and the Chief
Director are not able to fulfili their duties. He performs the
official dnties of the president if the seats of president, of the
vice-president and the Chief Director are vacant.
16 041 p71 bu

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
-68-
The inspectors investigate the financial conditions of the
control society.
The members of the Board of Trustees give their opinions to
enquiries made by the president.
Article 14-
The competent minister appoints the president of a society
from among those suggested by the nominating committee.
The competent Minister appoints members of the nominating
committee from among those who have bad experience with or have made
special studies on the industry concerned.
The president appoints the vics-presidents, the chief-director,
the directors and the members of the Board of Trustees from those
who have had experience with or have made special studies on the
industry oonoerned.
Membere of the board of trustees elect the inspectors in
accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decrse. The appoint-
ments of the vice-presidents, the chief-director and the directors
have no effeots unless the approval of the competent Minister is
obtained. When the competent Minister has given the approval as
provided im the preceding paragraph and has made the appointments
as provided in Paragraph 1, he shall announce the facts.
Artiole 15-
The terms of the officials of the control society are as
follows:
President
Three years
Vioe-President
Chief-Director
Directors
Inspectors
Two years
Mambers of the Board
of Trustees
The president may discharge the vice-presidents, the chiefy
director and the directors, even during their terms of office if be
considers this act to be necessary.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister is obtained.
The competent Minister shall announce the fact when he has
given his approval.
16 041 p72 bu

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
-69-
Article 16 --
The president, the vioe-presidents, the chief-director and
the directors shall not be engaged in other official duties or in
commercial business. An exception may be made when the permission
of the competent Minister is obtained.
Artiale 17 -
The Control Society may give suggestions about matters related
to the industry to the ministers ooncerned with the industry.
The Control Society must give answers to the enquiries made
by the ministers ooncerned with the industry.
Article 18 --
The Control Society may request from the members and organisers
of the member organisations the submission of the necessary material
for the investigation of certain facts regarding the industry concermed.
Those who are requested to submit certain material, in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, mmst do
so immediately.
Article 19--
The Control Society may levy upon the members assessments
as provided in the Artioles of the Society.
Article 20 --
When any other assessment is necessary for the operation of
the enterprise, depending on the provisions of the Cabinet deoree,
the Control Society may levy the assessment, other than those already
levied in accordance with the provisions of the precsding article.
The Control Society may levy the assessment upon the entire body or
a group of the members after the approval of the competent Minister
is obtained.
Article 21-
The Control Society may levy fines, as .provided in the Articles
of the Society, upon those members who have violated the Articles or
the control regulations.
Article 22 --
If there are people who fail to pay the assessments mentioned
in the artioles 19 and 20, the Municipality (Shi), Town (Cho), and
Village (Son) may deal with the situation according to the reguiations
16 04t p73 b

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-70-
concerning the non-payment of tax in that locality, provided that the
Control Society has made a request to the authorities of the locality.
In such case the Control Society shall pay 4 per cent of the collected
amount to the city, town or village.
When there is no organised town or village, the corresponding
body in the locality shall take the place of the towm and village
mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
The order of priority of claims for the assessments mentioned
in the provision of paragraph 1 is next to that of the municipality,
town, or village tax or to the corresponding tax system. The time
limitation for payment of this levy depends on the tax regulations
goveming the mmicipality, town and city.
Article 23 --
The Control Society shall establish the control regulations
governing members and organisers of organisations having relations
with enterprises belonging to the industry concerned.
Article 24 --
Revisions of the Articles and establishment and revisions
of the control regulations shall not take effect until approved by
the competent Minister.
The competent Minister must announce the fact that he has
given the approval mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Article 25 --
The members and organisers of the member organisations of the
Control Society must act in accordance with the control regulations.
Article 26 --
The Control society may have the officials and other employees
of the Society investigate the business affairs, financial conditions,
account books, establishments, and other property of the members or
of the organizers of the member organisations of the society if the
society considers it necessary.
The members and organisers of the member organisations of the
Control Society cannot reject, interfere, or evade the investigations
mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
16 041 p74 bu

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
-71-
When the Control Society has the officials and other employees
of the society make the investigation according to the regulations
of Paragraph 1, the control society must provide the investigators
with identification cards which shall certify their official positions.
Article 27--
When the conduct of directors or managers and other officers
who are in position to operate the business of the member corporations
and of corporations which organise the member associations, comes
under one of the following sections, and when they are considered
to be interfering with the control and management of the industry
concerned, the president of the control society of the industry
concerned may, with the approval of the competent Winister, order
the corporation to discharge the officials. The chief director of
a control association, which is a member of a control society, is
not subject to this regulations
a. When the ordinance, or the decisions based on the
ordinance by an administrative government office, is violated.
b. When the public welfare is jeopardized.
c. When the control regulations are violated.
Article 28--
The president shall call the regular general meeting of a
Control Society once every year.
The president may call special general meetings at any time
if needed.
Article 29--
The president shall decide the following matters after con-
sultation at the general meetings
a. Amendment of the articles of the society.
b. Budget
c. The method of levying the assessment provided in Articles 19
and 20.
Article 30--
The president shall prepare a business report and he shall
have the inspectors prepare a financial report of the control society.
Article 31--
The government's administrative office may summon the Control
Society, the members or the organizers of the member associations
16 041 P75 

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
-72-
to make their business reports whenever the office considere necessary;
this office may have the officials of the government administrative
office inspect the factories and other property concerned. They may
have the officials investigate the business condition, accounting
books, documents and other items according to the regulations of
Articles 31 of the National General Mobilisation Law.
When the officials concerned are asked to make investigations
and inspections, they must possess the indentification cards certifying
their official position.
▲rticlo 32--
The Ministers connected with a Control Society may demand that
the society investigate the business affairs of the industry concerned.
Article 33 --
The competent Minister may require the Control Society to
operate a needed enterprise or to alter the articles of the society,
and perform other functions when he considers such acts necessary
to control the operation of the industry concerned.
Article 34 --
The competent Minister may issue necessary orders to a Control
Society concerning the business and accounts of the society, and in
case of necessity, he may take over the management thereof.
The competent Minister may have the inspectors make a report
on the results of their investigation.
Article 35 --
The competent Minister may discharge the president when the
conduct of the latter violates the ordinances and the decisions
based on the ordinances, or damages the public interest and when he
considers the president unfit to control the industry concerned.
The competent Minister may discharge the vice-presidents,
chief director, directors, inspectors and the members of the Board of
Trustees when the conduct of these men violates the ordinances or
the decisions based on the ordinances, or when they damage the public
interest.
The competent Minister shall announce the fact when he has
discharged the president, vice-president, chief-directors or directors
according to the regulations of the preceding paragraph.
16 04L p76 bu

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
-73-
Article 36 -
The Control society may be diasolved by the orders of the
competent Minister.
The competent Minister must make the announcement of the fact
when he has given the order mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Chapter III
Control Association (Tosei - kumiai)
Article 37 --
The Control Association strives to control the management
of the industry concerned so as to develop most effectively the entire
economic power of the nation and to cooperate in carrying out the
national plan for the industry concerned.
Article 38 --
The Control association shall be organized by the kind of
industry in a given district.
The district mentioned in the preceding paragraph, except
in special cases, shall be determined in accordance with the division
of local administration, do, u, ken, or two or more divisions of the
same.
Article 39 --
The control association shall undertake the following functions
in order to accomplish its aim:
a. Control and guide production and distribution of the
industry concerned in a given district; control and guide enterprises
undertaken by the members of the Association which belongs to the
industry concerned.
b. Provide for the equipping of the industry concerned in
a given district.
c. Develop techniques, increase efficiency, reform the
management and carry on other activities in the plants established
by the members for the development of the enterprises belonging to
the industry concerned.
d. Investigate and conduct research concerning the industry
in a district.
16 041 p77 b

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
-74-
•. Inspect the enterprises carried on by the members of
the Association.
f. Carry on the enterprises necessary to accomplish the
purpose of the Control Association in addition to the functions
mentioned in each preceding section.
Article 40 --
Those who are qualified for membership in the Control Association
are as follows and may be appointed by the competent Minister:
a. Those who are engaged in the industry concerned in a given
district.
b. Those organisations composed of people who are engaged
in the industry concerned in a given district.
c. The organizations composed of the organisations mentioned
in the sections (a) and (b); the organizations composed of the
organisations mentioned in the preceding section.
Articlo 41 --
When the competent Minister intends to have a Control Association
established, he shall order people who are qualified for memberahip
in the Control Association in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding article, to establish the association in a given locality
in accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decree.
Article 42 --
The following matters shall be stated in the Articles of
the Control Association:
a. Purpose.
b. Title.
District.
d. Location of the office.
o.
Regulations concerning the members of the Associations.
Regulations concerning the enterprise and its operation.
g.
Regulations concerning officials.
h. Regulations concerning meetings.
1. Regulations concerning the treasury.
Article 43 --
The following officials shall be established in a Control
Association:
10 041 p78 be

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
Chief Director --
one
Directors --
several
Inspectors --
several
Members of the Board of
several
Trustees --
Not more than two vice-chief directors may be established
in a Control Association depending on the provisions of the
articles of the association, in addition to the officials mentioned
in the preceding paragraph.
Article 44 --
The chief-director represents the Control Associations. He
controls and guides the industry concerned and operates the business
of the Association.
The president of a Control Society appoints the chief-director
of a Control Association, which is under the jurisdiction of the
former, from among those who have experience in or knowledge of
the industry concerned. When there is no connected Control Society,
the competent Minister appoints the chief director of a Control
Association from those persons who have experience in or knowledge
of the industry concerned.
The chief-director chosen in accordance with the provisions
of the first part of the preceding paragraph shall not take office
until the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
Article 45 --
The provisions of Paragraphs 2, and 4 to 6, Article 13 and
from Paragraph 3 to 5 of Artiole 14 are to be applied to the
vice-chief directors, directors, inspectors and trustee members of
the Control Association.
Article 46 --
The terms of the officials of the Control Association are
as follows:
Chief director --
3 years
Vice chief-directors --
Directors --
Inspectors --
2 years
Trustee members
The chief-director may dismiss the vice-directors or directors
of the Association during their terms of office if he considers this
act necessary.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
18 041 79

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-76-
Article 47 --
The president of a Control society may dismiss the chief director
of a Control Aseociation when the latter's conduct violates the
ordinance or the decisions made by the administrative government in
accordance with the ordinance, or when the chief-director is considered
unfit for the control and management of the industry concerned.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
Article 48 --
The Control Association may convene a general meeting of
representatives in accordance with the Articles of the Association;
this meeting to take the place of the general meeting.
Articles 28 and 29 are to be applied to the general meeting
of the representatives mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Article 49 --
The Control Association is required to register according
to the provisions of the Cabinet decree.
The items which should be registered according to the provisions
of the preceding paragraph, may not be applied to a third party unless
he has been registered.
Article 50--
The regulations of Paragraph 2 of Article 8, of Articles
10, 11, 17 to 26 and 28 to 34, of Paragraph 1 and 2 of Articles 35
and also Paragraph 1 of Article 36 are to be applied to the Control
Association. The government's administrative office shall take the
place of the competent Minister and the ministers connected with the
industry concerned. Exceptions are made in the provisions of
Paragraph 2 of Article 10 and Paragraph 1 of Article 36.
Chapter IV
Miscellaneous Regulations
Article 51--
When the enquiries, reports, inspections, investigations and
orders concerned are of military importance, the Minister of Army
or Navy will take the place of the Ministers connected with the
industry concerned or the government's administrative office and the
competent Minister, mentioned in Paragraph 2 of Article 17,
16 041 p80 bu

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
-77-
Paragraph 1 of article 31, Article 32 (including the preceding
articles to which the mentioned provisions are applied) and Article 33
(including the preceding articles to which Article 33 is applied,
the same applying correspondingly to this article and Article 52).
Then the Minister of Army or Navy intends to give an order
according to the regulations of Article 33 he must discuss the
matter with the authorized Minister of the Control Society or of the
Control Association.
Article 52 --
If the authorized Minister of a Control Society or of a
Control association intends to give an order under the provisions
of Article 33 he shall confer with the Minister of Army or Navy
if the order concerned should affect military matters.
Article 53 --
In Chosen, Taiwan, Karafuto and in the South Sea Islands
(hereinafter referred to as the "Outer-Territories") the Chosen
governor-general, the Taiwan governor-general, the heads of the
Karafuto government office and of the South Sea Islands Government
office shall take the place of the competent Minister, the Ministers
directly connected with the business concerned and the authorised
Ministers of the Control Society or of the Control Associations
mentioned in this ordinance.
In the case of a Control society composed of members who fall
under one of the sections of Article 7 and who live in the Outer-
Territories and of persons who live in Japan proper, the Chosen
Governor-general, the Taiwan government, the Heads of the Karafuto
government office and of the South Sea Islands shall take the place
of the competent Minister, the Ministers connected with the control
organizations concerned, and the authorised ministers of the Control
Society and Control Associations only if the cases are concerned with
the Outer-Territories regardless of the provisions of preceding
articles.
Articles 54-46: (omitted) Technical details of operation of control
mechanism in Outer-Territories.
Supplementary Rule:
This ordinance shall be enforced from the first of September, l94l.
Source: Horei Zensho (Complete Collection of Laws and Ordinances),
1941, pp. 612-620.
16 01 1 

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
-78-
APPENDIX VI
"Imperial Ordinance covering amendments to the Essential
Industries Organizationa Law (Juyo Sangyo Danta1 Roichu Kaisei Chokurei)
dated July 4, 1945.
"(1)
) In Article 1, under 'Control•, add the words, 'and the
necessary administration for it.'
"(2)
In Article 4, after the words, 'to contrive for the
carrying out od generalized control•, 'and to
carry out the necessary administration for it.
*(3)
In order to achieve their objectives, the control associa-
tions will conduct the following tasks:-
"(a)
Participation in the Government planning regarding
production and distribution in the industries
concerned, and the demand and supply of materisl,
capital, and labor to be used in these industries,
and in other Government planning regarding the
industries concerned.
"(b)
Guidance of control regarding production.and
distribution in the industries concerned; plso
guidence of control of enterprises affiliated
with such such industries which are run by (control
associasions) mombers or organizations of such
members.
"(c)
Firm establishment and adjustment of the industries
concerned.
"(d)
Cooperative purchasing of materials needed by
members of organizations of membors in enterprises
affiliated with the industries concerned.
"(e)
Cooperative marketing of materiels produced by
such members of organizations in enterpriees
affiliated with the industries concerred.
"(£)
Croperative calculation of the profit and loss
of affilieted enterprises.
"(g)
The making of provisions for the prctection of
the enterprises affiliated with the industries
concerned, and for the welfare of the workere,
and other necessery provisions pertaining to
the operation of the industries concerned.
16 041 p82 bu

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
-79-
"(h) Inspection of the enterprises affiliated with the
industries concerned and the auditing of their
accounts.
"(1) Providing for the development of affiliated
enterprises, by such means as improvement
of techniques, increase in efficiency, unification
of system, and reform in administration.
*(j) Investigation and research regarding the industries
concerned.
*(k) Making plans other than contained in the above
clauses which are deemed necessary in carrying
out the objectives of the control associations
in their control of the industries concerned.
*(4) Clause 6 in Article 14, and Clause 4 in Article 15 will
be eliminated.
"(5)
) Clause 2, Article 22: By specification in the articles
of association, the president of a control association
may select a deputy (dairinin) who will have authority
to carry out, in place of the president, all judicial
or nonjudical matters in relation to the duties of the
business office of the control association.
*(6) A bona fide third party may not be opposed by application
of the limitations placed on the authority of the deputy
in the preceding clause.
"(7) Clause 2, Article 27: If the president sees that any
action is detrimental to the common interest being
carried out by a corporate member of the control assooia-
tion of one of the industries involved, or by the secretary
or auditor of a corporation made of a group of members,
or by a member who audits the conditions of the (word
missing) assets, and if such action is found to be
espectially hindering in the enforcement of control,
then, upon the authorization of the Minister concerned,
the president can order the release of that person
through the corporation concerned.
"(8) Clause 3, Article 35, and Clause 2 of Article 36 will be
eliminated.
"(9) Clause 2, Article 36: It is nscessary that the control
associations carry out a registration as specified by
these provisions.
16 041 p83 bu

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
- 80 -
"(10) By the stipulation of the previous clause, if the
matters which should be registered are not those which
(word missing) after registration, this cannot be used
against a bona fide third party.
"(11) In Article 38 under 'Article 27' add "Part two of
Article 27'.
"(12) In the principle part of clause 3, in Article 41, change
the words 'or Article 27' to read (Article 27 or part
2 of Article 27). Make the same change in the conditional
clause of the same Article.
"By-Laws:- This ordinance will be enforced from the date
of promulgation. As for the registration which the
control associations must carry out within the definitions
of the enforcement of this ordinance, this will be
specified by a Cabinet ordinance." (Tokyo, DOlEI,
in Kana to G.E.A., July 3, 1945, 6:17 a.m. EWT).
10 041 p84 bu

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
-81-
APPENDIX VII
Transfer of Administrative Authority Lew 1/
(February 18, 1942, Law No. 15)
(Established in accordance with Article 18 of the National Total
Mobilisation Law)
Article 1. Transfer of the government authorities.
The Government transfers to the Iron and Steel Control Society,
to the Coal Control Society and to other Control Societies (established
on basis of the Major Industries Organisation Ordinance) National
Policy Companies to Corporations (Eidan) and to other organisations,
governmental authority to grant authorisations and permissions arising
from the provisions of the National Total Mobilisation Law, the Exports
and Imports Temporary Management Law, and various other laws and regu-
lations, except the authority which belongs to the administrative policy
of the Government. Matters concerning allocations of production and
distribution, supply of materials, which are decided by imperial
ordinances, are to be conducted by the Control Organizations.
Article 2. Guarantee for execution of authority and the fixing of
official responsibility.
For the purpose of safe guarding the authority of the control
organizations, they are considered as government agencies. Any violation
of their orders is considered as a violation of the particular law or
regulation upon which their order is based. The ofricials of the control
organizations are considered as government officials, and any negligence
in fulfilling their duties is to be considered the same as negligence on
the part of government officials.
Article 3. Necessary matters related to the performance of the govern-
mental authorities by the Control Organizations will be decided by
Imperial ordinance.
Article 4. Date of enforcement wil: be decided by imperial ordinance.
Source:
Keizai Tosei-ho Nempo (Control Law Annual Report)
Series I Vol (January-March, 1942 pp. 38-40)
1/ This is an abstract based on an exposition of the law.
16 041 p85 bw

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
- 82 -
APPENDIX VIII
METAL INDUSTRY CONTROL SOCIETY (ABSTRACT)
The Metal Industry Control Society was established 15 Janusry
1942 to deal with metal goods and raw materials, such as electric
wire, copper, aluminum, magnesium and its compound, metal plates,
pipe, metal bars, wire and other metal articles. Twenty-seven
companies, two control unions and six industrial unions were desiz-
nated by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry as members of the
society. The purpose of the sociaty is to plan a centralized con-
trol administration for the metal industry and to cooperate in
accomplishing the national industrial policy. Therefore, the con-
trol society has the right to participate in Government plans in
order to direct and adjust the business of all members of the
society.
The characteristics of the society are as follows: 1) The
members of the society are all industrial companies dealing with
electric wire, pressed wire and stretched wire. The electric wire
division and the pressed and stretched wire divisions deal with
copper and aluminum. There are two or three other member industries
which deal with different materials and goods in the society
2) The business of the society is its control of manufactured metal
goods, such as metal plates, pipes, bars and other metal articles.
The society is planning to investigate working conditions
of the factories at the end of November as a means of carrying out a
concrete control of all activities in the future.
Finance, technical labor, materials, production and South
Seas policy committees have been established to coordinate activities
of the members of the society and to conduct business effectively
for the members of the society.
The society is planning to work more closely with related
Government agencies and organizations for the purpose of establishing
an emergency control production plan in accordance with national
economic policies. For this reason, the Metal Pressing and Stretching
Supply Co., Inc. (Assen Kinzoku Haikyu Kabushiki Kaisha) and the
Electric Wire Supply Co., Inc., (Densen Haikyu Kabushiki Kaisha)
have established a rationalized distribution policy to society
members. The Metal Pressing and Stretching Supply Co. has been
directing all business activities and the Tosai Copper Sale Company
will start its business on 1 May 1942. The Electric Wire Supply Co.
will start its business on 1 August 1942.
The Society established the materials comrittee as a centralized
suoply consulting organization to direct the distribution of materials
to the members. The society plans to hold consultations on supply
and on procuring materials for the society members. Its concrete
policies are as follows:
16 041 p86 bu

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
-83-
1)
Investigation of the amount of essential materials in
stock. The society investigated the total amount of all
essential materials such as copper, aluminum, sinc, pig-
iron, lead, turpentine, carbon block, artificial silk
thread, cotton thread and sinc wire, in warehouses and
factories for the past year and the average quantity used
monthly in order to make good use of all materials.
2)
Complete control of all materials for local distribution.
The society is trying to control all materials such as
nails, steel wire, cement, machine oil, needles and
pocket ledgers for local distribution.
3)
Simplification of regulations. The society is planning
to simplify the regulations on the control of all materials.
4)
Application of left-over materials. The society is
planning to exchange materials among members to supple-
ment and make use of all materials in the warehouses.
An investigation card is now being worked out to check
on all materials on hand and to plan for their proper
use by society members in order to simplify all business
transactions for the society.
The tecknical committee of the Electric Wire and the Pressed and
Stretched Wire Divisions are cooperating in the following policies:
1) the investigation and research of factory establishments and their
techniques; 2) investigation of patents; 3) investigation of manu-
facturing efficiency; 4) standardization of goods, materials and
control regulations; 5) investigation of the needed quantities of
materials; 6) plans for standard plants; 7) research on improved
working techniques in factories, training in labor techniques,
development of working efficiency, establishing of prices, improv-
ment of technical administration and inspection of goods. The society
has completed technical inspection of 64 types of electric wires and
126 patents on pressed and stretched wire.
The society has been studying labor distribution, administra-
tion, wages, hours, welfare establishments and necessities for the
daily living of the workers in order to solve all important and urgent
problems connected with labor. The Pressed and Stretched Wire Division
is now studying the practical problems of labor distribution to
increase labor efficiency.
The society is now investigating the business condition of
society members to strengthen and rationalize production, by utiliza-
tion of all metal industries' working efficiency and improving their
techniques.
The South Seas Policy Committee is working on a policy for
distributing necessary metals to places that need them in the South
Seas. The society is also preparing to investigate necessary labor,
16 041 p87 b

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.94)
- &-
fuel, and the required quantity of materials for the South Seas.
The control regulations of the Metal Industry Control Society
have not been approved because the business law which includes
approved of regulations for controls societies has not been established.
Regulations of the society will be approved around the middle of
September. Practical activities of the society are expected to start
immediately after approval of the regulations has been granted.
SOURCE: - Toseikai Nenkan, 1943 p. 149.
16 041 p88 bu

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
-85-
APPENDIX IX
Control Regulations concerning Control Association of Hokkai
Warehouse Enterprises. The regulation is effective from
20 June 1944.
1. Control of warehouse enterprises, Article #14 of the Asscciation
Regulation, will follow this Control Regulation.
2. Within two months of application, members must submit statement
containing the following items:
a. Resume of employer's personal history and financial
background.
b. Business regulation.
c. Sample of warehouse bonds.
d. Rates for storage, loading, and unloading.
e. Name and address of business (ffice.
f. Chart of warehouse inspection.
g. Inspection chart indicating the state of management.
h. Statement of other business pesides the warehouse, owned
by the member.
3. Members must submit statement without delay to include:
a. Monthly report of articles received, released and remaining
in storage.
b. Unpaid monthly warehouse bonds.
c. Financial list of loans, business-reports, profits and
loss statements, also statements concerning the disposal
of profit.
d. Monthly report on utilization of warehouse.
e. Yearly report of business conditions.
4. Members must report to the Association under the following circumstances:
a. When duties assigned to the Association are completed,
b. When business location or office is changed or when name
and address is abolished or changed.
c. When any regulation and executive personnel is changed.
10 041 pe9 

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
- 86 -
d. When stock payment is collected and pew stocks are issued.
When Warehouse Regulation Article #1 is granted or annulled.
5. Mombers must submit certified documents concerning:
a. Handling, obtaining and conserving of necessity articles.
b. Hiring of labor and working conditions.
c. Methods of raising caoital.
6. When necessary, the Association shall reform management, promote
efficiency and carry on research for technical operations.
7. When necessary, the Association shall subsidize and contribute
money to improve conditions for its members.
8. In time of emergency or disaster, members must cooperate and take
measures to aid such victims.
9. Members must obey the rules and regulations established by the
Associations.
10. All statements in documents submitted by members must be true
and accurate.
1l. After obtaining permission from Government, the Association may
ostablish, suspend, abolish, transfer, consign, entrust, or
combine the managements of various warehouse onterprises of its
members.
12. Members must report in advance concerning opening, abolishing,
transferring, uniting, or dispersing of their warehouse enterprises
to the Association.
13. When considered necessary to control the Association, Government
may order and instruct the setting up of machineries, expanding
of warehouses, changing, suspending, transferring and renting
of members' enterprises.
14. Members must report to the Association in advance on the purchasing
loading and unloading of machineries, establishing of warehouses,
enlarging of company, changing, suspending, abolishing and
transferring of business.
15. When considered necessary, the Association may make suggestions
on the weight and number of commodities handled and methods of
obtaining and conserving necessary articles.
16 041 p90. bu

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
- 87 -
REGULATION CONCERNING LABOR AND STORAGE:
16. Except in special cases, the Association may give permission
to receive goods for storage.
17. The Association may, when necessary, receive goods for storage,
under a joint contract but it may also give portions of goods
to other members for storage.
18. When the Association receives goods for storage under a joint
contract, it may distribute them to designated members. When
designated members receive the goods, they must perform their
duty according to regulations.
19. Designated members must agree to receive their quota of assignment
according to the rules of the Association, but when members
cannot accept the amount assigned them, they must give reasons
for not doing so and must report to the director and obtain his
approval.
20. When considered necessary, the Association may request any member
to accept for storage any assignment that it may give to the
member.
21. When necessary, the Association may transfer goods placed with
one member to another member as decided by the Chief Director.
22. When necessary, a conference may be held with the chief director
of the Association to discuss matters concerning the development
of warehouse enterprises:
a. To establish or purchase warehouses.
b. To decide on priority for receiving goods for storage.
c. To refuse or limit goods for storage.
d. To cancel contract for storage or to returm goods.
e. To inaure goods for storage.
f. To decide on methods of loading and unloading.
23. When necessary, the Association may direct the management of labor
and adjust the wages of labor.
24. The Association may decide on the forms of bonds or certificates
for warehouses.
16 041 p91 bu

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
CONTROL OF RATES OR FEES FOR STORAGE:
25. The Association shall decide on the rates for storage and the
methods of loading and unlosding. In special cases where rates
are increased or decreased, approval must be obtained by the
members from the Association.
26. To improve warehouse enterprises, the Associatiom may order a
part of the members or all of its members to acoept special
rates for storage or rent for warehouses.
27. Members who aocept the new rates may combine together in handling
the special rates and rent of warehouses.
28. Members desiring more detail on this regulation may obtain
further information from the director.
SOURCE: - Kampo, June 29, 1944.
16 041 p92 bu

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
- 89 -
Appendix X
Electrical Engineering Control Society in Japan (abstract)
The Electrical Engineering Control Society has been established in conform-
ity with the principle of national defense which deems it necessary to pro-
mote electrical engineering to its highest point of productivity.
This Society came into existence through the Important Enterprise Aot of the
Japanese Government. The general headquarters of this society are in Tokyo, and.
branch offices may be established in various cities if the head of this Society
considers it necessary. Any announcement of the Society will be considered as an
official announcement.
The duties of the Control Society may be listed as follows:
1) To produce and allocate electric machinery in accordance with the
general economic plan of the Government.
2) To guide and supervise the production of and allocation of articles
made by member organisations.
3) To plan for the supply of raw materials, capital, manpower, fuel, and
other establishments.
4) To reorganise the whole system of electrical engineering and the
manufacture of electrical machinery.
5) To determine the prices of articles produced.
6) To devise means for the advancement of technique and efficiency in
electrical engineering.
7) To concern itself with matters of investigation and research.
The organization of the Control Society consists of one chief, one deputy
chief, one chairman of the board of directors, several directors, several super-
visors, and several advisors. The chief of the whole society is appointed by the
Minister of Commerce and Industry; the deputy chief, the chairman of directors,
the directors, and the advisors, are appointed by the chief on the basis of their
experience and academic background. The terms of tenure are: Three years for
the chief, deputy chief, chairman of the board of directors, and directors, and
two years for the supervisors and advisors.
The office of the advisors is mainly for giving advice to the chief who is
concurrently head of the advisory board. The board convenes at any time at the
suggestion of the chairman. The general affairs of the Control Society are han-
dled by the office of Administrative Affairs, the head of which is the chair-
man of the board of directors, who administers under the guidance and supervision
10 041 p93 bu

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
- 90 -
of the chief of the Control Society. The Office of Administrative Affairs
maintains the following 5 departments:
1) The department of general affairs.
2) The department of electricity.
3) The department of communications.
4) The department of natural resouroes.
5) The department of investigation.
Toceikai Nenkan, Tokyo, February 1943, pp. 177-185.
16 041 p94u

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
-91-
Appendix XI
Electric Mechine Control Sootety (Abstract).
CHAPT&R I
Article l. To cooperate in the realization of the imperial
policy in regard to the maintenance of the elec-
tric machine business, the society shall aim at
establishment of an electric business which will
secure the sale and manufacturing of electric
machines, such as: steam engine boiler, steam
engine turbines, water turbines, and telegraph
instruments.
Article 2. The Socisty shall be established according to tta
Important Industry Corporation Law and shall be
called the Electric Machine Control Society.
Article 3. The head office shall be in Tokyo. If the pres-
ident deems it necessary, branch offices shall
be establisbed in important cities.
Article 4.
The announcement of different matters of the
Society shall be made through the official
gazette.
CHAPTER II
Article 5. The Society shall be composed of members who are
in the business of electric machines and in cor-
porations organized by electric machine business
enterprisers. The Minister of Commerce and In-
dustry shall have the right of designating mem-
bers to this society.
CHAPTER III
Business and its practices
The following items shall be practiced. to accom-
plish the aim of the society.
▲. The socisty shall participate in the government
plan for the supply and distribution of motor
power, fuel, labor, power, and capital equipment
for the electric machine business.
B. The society shall control and supervise matters
concerning the production and distribution of
electric machines.
16 041 P05 b

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
-92-
C.
The society shall control and supervise the sup-
ply and distribution of necessary data for the
various electric machine business end enterprises.
D.
The Society shall manage the problems of security
and arrange the systems for the electrio machine
business.
E.
The society shall manage matters concerning the
price of electric machines.
F.
The Society shall standardize electric goods, im-
prove administration, promote efficiency, and
alevate technical skill in connecticn with the
electric machine business.
G.
The Society shall conduct research and investiga-
tion pertaining to electric machine business.
H.
The Society shall investigate the business of the
members and members' corporations
I.
The Society shall handle other necessary matters
that are related to the accomplishment of the aims
of the soiety.
Article 7.
The control over the business of the members or
members' corporation shall be done according to
fixed control regulations.
Article 8.
Special business matters of the Society shall
be conducted separately.
CHAPTER IV.
Officiale
The Society shall have the following officials:
one president, one chairman of the board of di-
rectors, a few directors, a few inspectors, a
few councillors. If necessary, the society shall
have one vice-president.
Article 10.
The president shall control and supervise the
business of electric machines on behalf of the
Society. The vice-president shall assist the
president and in the president's absence he
16 041 p90 bu

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
-93-
shall act for the president.
Article 1l.
The president shall be appointed directly by
the Minister of Commerce and Industry. The
president shall choose men of experience for
the other offices with the approval of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Only the
inspectors shall be elected on the agreement of
more than half the councillors.
Article 12.
The terms of office shall be as follows: president
3 years; vice-president, 3 years; chairman of the
board of directors, 3 years; members of the board
of directors, 3 years; inspectors, 2 years; and-coun-
cillors, 2 years.
Article 13.
The president, vice-president, chairman and
members of the board of directors shall not
participate or undertake any other business
without the approval of the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry.
CHAPTER V.
Article 14.
Meetings shall be of two kinds, general and com-
mittee meetings.
Article 15.
The general meetings shall be of two kinds,
regular general meetings and temporary general
meetings.
Article 16.
The president shall make decisions on the follow-
ing matters with the approval of a general meeting:
A.
Changes in the articles of the Society;
B.
Budget and income expenditure;
C.
Method of collecting taxes.
Article 17.
The president shall report on the business of
the society and he shall have the inspectors
report on financial matters of the society.
Article 18.
Committee Meetings shall be held whenever the
president deems it necessary. The president
16 041 p97 bu

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
-94-
shall preside as chairman of the committee
meetings.
CHAPTER VI
Bureau of Business:
Article l9. A business bureau shall be established in the
society to manage the business affairs.
Article 20. The cheirman of the board of directors shall
control and manage the business bureau under
the direction of the president.
Article 21. The regulations concerning the officials and
employees shall be made up separately.
Article 22. The society shall impose a tax upon the members.
Article 23. The society shall get the approval of the Nin-
ister of Commerce and Industry, whenever the
Society has new business. to deel with. When-
ever necessary the Society shall impose a
special levy upon its members.
Article 24. The levy shall be collected according to the
special regulations set for taxes.
Article 25. The fiscal year shall begin on 1 April and
end on 31 March of the following year.
CHAPTER VIII
Dissolution and liquidation.
Article 26. Dissolution of the Society shall be made by
the order of the Minister of Commerce and
Industry.
Article 27. The liquidator shall be chosen by the court
of justice which shell be served the notice
by the Minister of Commerce and Industry.
Article 28. The liquidator shall have the right of manag-
ing the liquidation on behalf of the Society.
Article 29. The liquidator shall decide on the method of
liquidation and property disposition.
16 041 pss bu

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
-95
Article 30. Even after a dissolution, if it is found neo-
essary, the Society shall collect any necessary
levy from the members with the approval of the
court, to settle the debts of the Society.
CHAPTER XV
Fine for violating the regulations.
Article 3l. Any member who violates these regulations shall
be charged with a fine of 5,000 yen.
SOURCE: - Toseikai Nenkan, 1943, Part II, 177-180
10 041 p00 Du

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
- 96 -
Appendix XII
Abstract of Regulations Governing the Establishment of a
Warehouse Control Society (Effective 1 May 1944).
In order to increase transportation efficiency and
to harmonize the distribution of essential resources, the
proposal to establish the Warehouse Control Society was
presented by the Minister of Transportation, that this estab-
lishment should be rushed by appointing a conaittee to pre-
pare and to finish within the month of April so as to operate
it from 1 May.
I. The Establishment of Control Society.
1) Control Society should be established in order to
control general warehouses of six great harbors.
2) The affairs of control society should be of enter-
prising warehouse business. New equipment may be arranged to
protect warehouses and their establishment with the headquarters
in Tokyo and branch offices in important areas.
3) Private Warehouses or business warehouses should be
rented or commissioned as ordered by the control society.
4) The readjustment order should be issued by the control
society when warehouse is to be rented.
5) Official or public warehouses will be lent to the
control society.
6) The Control Society should arrange with the Japan Harbor
Transportation Association, small scale land transportation busi-
ness, and exchange corporations to maintain closer mutual connec-
tions.
II. The establishment of Control Union and Control Society.
1) In the district zones under local administrative
society, Control Union should be organized in parallel with the
Control Society. The function of this union should be to under-
take the control activities of warehouse business under the
established regulations of commercial union.
2) Under the readjustment of control society and control
union, the whole nation's warehouse business may be controlled
when the essential industry demands it.
10 04z P100 bu

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
-97-
3) The president of Control Society autommtically
becomes the head of all control associations and he selects other
personnel of the society.
4) The Control Society should encourage cooperation
among all warehouse businesses in crder to increase une effisieney
of transportation power to insure the complete unification or
harbor transportation and all small scale land transportation
business.
III.
The Purposes of Warehouse Control Society.
1) To bring the marimm efficienoy of transportation
to the six great harbor warehouses and to decréase the procrestination
of harbor freight work.
2) To enlarge the utility of sea routes for unified and
carefully planned transportation.
3). To see that the warehouse business men do not keep
or distribute too freely the essential resources, but manage them
under the orders of the control society. In addition, to protect.
the essential resources from the danger of enemy air raids.
4) To unify the regulatioms of small scale land
transportation as of 1938, and of sea transportation as of 1940,
so that the function personnel and enterprise of transportation
may be closely connected and thorough.
The control society becomes the legal owner of all sir
great harbor warehouses and the control society acts under the orders
of the Government in distribution and custody of the essential goods.
The Warhouse Control Society shall be operated from
1 May, with the capital of 20,000,000 yen. If it 1s necessary for
a central organization to control a nation-wide association, the
Government will act upon it.
16 041 P20L D

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
-98-
APPENDIX XIII
Control of Electrical Engineering Industries
The nine electric power distribution companies of the
country are under the complete control of the state but there
has been no particular control over the 5,000 electrical en-
gineering industries for the nim electric power distribution com-
panies and their consumers. Their work is to connect elec-
tric lines to the homes and make small extension lines.
The Eleetric Bureau of the Ministry of Munitions is
now going to systematize the 5,000 electrical engineering in-
dustries by aiming at the following items:
1) Efficient utilization of labor and materials.
2) Closer cooperation between the engineering indus-
tries and the nine companies.
3) Absolute security for controlling the electric
lights during an air raid.
4) Mobilization of employees for defense during an
air raid.
The essential points for adjusting the electrical
engineering industries are as follows:
1) To establish nine electrical engineering indus-
try stock companies or one to each area in which
the nine electric power distribution centers are
located.
2) To organize local control associations, which will
be made up of electrical engineering stock com-
panies in each district, such companies must have
more than 20 engineers end their engineering con-
tracts must add up to more than 100,000 yen a year.
will be the local control associations and electrical
engineering industries whose contracts add up to
more than 1,000,000 yen a year and whose employees
consist of more than l000 people.
4) To reorganize the present electrical industry associations
according to the area in which they are located.
5) To require the local control associations to become
16 041 P102 bu

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.91)
-99
members of the local civil Engineering construo-
tion control association, and to require the Cen-
tral Electric Control Society to become e member
of the Japan Civil Engineering Construotion Con-
trol Society.
SOURCE:
Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo) 4 April, '44.
10 01 t08 

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
- 100 -
Appendix XIV
Abstract of Regulations on Lumber and Charcoal Production.
1) The local governor shall designate the acreage of
standing trees to be cut, the time for cutting the trees, the
time for the sale of the lumber and other necessary items for
the process of cutting down trees on the mountains.
2) Also the local governor shall record the place and
acreage of the standing trees, the time of the cutting, the
price and time of the sale of such lumber and other necessary
items in the document of his order for cutting down the trees.
3) The ceiling price of the standing trees shall be
the same as the ceiling price stated in the seventh article
of the Price Control Order, which is the price of lumber with
all the expenses of cutting, shipping and other labor excluded.
4) Local governor shall designate the time, the methods
of production and other necessary items in his order for char-
coal production, and he shall also designate the time, price
quantity, time of shipping, place of shipping and other nec-
ossary items in his order for the sale of charcoal.
5) The Charcoal Supply Adjustment Regulation will
be abolished and this order shall become effective 29 June
1944.
SOURCE: p, 29 June 1944.
10 061 P104 bu

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
- 101-
Appondix XV
Pit Wood Control Asscciation
The Pit Wood Control Association (Komoku Tosei Kumiai)
was established in Northern Kyushu and started its control
business transactions 1 July 1944 in order to 1) control the
supply of wood used for supports in order to fill the demands
of coal miners in 20 prefectures around Northern Kyushu, 2) lower
the expenses of the wood producers, 3) establish a sum of
7,500,000 yen as an encouragement fund to belp wood producers
transport their wood from the place of production to the con-
sumer and distribute all necessary working materials to the
wood producers. Three-fifths of the coal produoed in Japan
comes from this area.
The establishment of a Pit Wood Control Society has
been expected in Hokkaido, Rastern Japan and Osaka since the
establishment of this association in Kyushu.
SOURCE:
Asahi Shimbun, 16 July 1944.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
-102-
Appendix XVI
Regulations of the Woolen Goods Control
Sogietz
I. General Regulations
1)
The Purpose of this society shall be to support
the national policy of controlling all woolen
goods business in order to strengthen the
national economic system.
2)
This society shall be called the Woolen Goods
Control Society and shall be based on the Decree
of Essential Industry.
3)
The headquarters of this society shall be located
in Tokyo and branch offices shall be established
in other cities.
4)
The announcement of this society shall be revealed
in the gazette.
II. Members
5)
This society shall be composed of all woolen busi-
ness firms which have been approved by the minister
of Commerce.
III. Work and its execution
6)
In order to fulfill the aim of regulation No. 1
the following work shall be done by members:
a) To aid the government in acquiring
material, capital and labor for the
increase of wool production.
b) To direct and control the production and
distribution of the woolen industry.
c) To control the supply of capital, mate-
rial and labor for the woolen industry.
d) To fix the price for woolen goods.
e) To promote planning the woolen indus-
try.
f) To improve the skill and to increase
the efficiency of the woolen industry.
16 041 P106 bu

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
- 103 -
g) To make surveys and do research con-
cerning the woolen industry.
h) Besides the above items, other nec-
essary works for the benefit of this
society will be required.
7) Control regulations of this society shall be
recognized by the Minister of Commerce.
The president shall consult with the councillors
in order to formulate control regulations.
8) Essential affairs of this society shall be ex-
ecuted by the president.
IV. Officers
9) This society shall have one president, one chief
director and a certain number of directors, super-
intendents and councillors.
10) The president shall be recommended through a mem-
ber of the Civil Service Committee and shall be
appointed by the Ministry of Commeroe.
The chief director and directors shall have good
knowledge of and experience in the woolen indus-
try and their appointments shall be approved by
the Minister of Commerce.
Councillors and superintendent should have ex-
perience in the woolen industry and their ap-
pointments shall be approved by the president.
11) The appointments of the president, the chief
director and the directors shall be for three
years each and of the superintendents and coun-
cillors, two years each. If the president wishes
to resign during his incumbency his resignation
shall be approved by the Minister of Commerce.
12) The president, the chief director and directors
cannot engage in other business except with the
approval of the Minister of Commerce.
13) The president shall direct and control all essential
16 041 P107 

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-104-
affairs of the woolen industry and other activities
related to this society.
The chief director and directors shall assist the
president in all works and act for him in his ab-
sence.
Superintendents shall examine and audit the finan-
cial status of this society.
Councillors shall answer and give opinions to, the
president upon request.
V. Conferences
14) There are two kinds of conferences, namely:
a)
general conference
b)
councillors conferences.
The general conference shall be composed of all
members of this society while the councillors
conference shall be composed of only the coun-
cillors of this society.
15)
There are also two kinds of general conferences
namely:
a) ordinary conference
b) emergency conferences
The ordinary conference shall be held in May
of each year, while an emergency conference
may be called whenever it is needed. Confer-
ences shall be called by the president.
16) The president shall consult all members at the
conference concerning any change in the regu-
lations or the financial budget of the society.
17) At the annual ordinary conference the president
shall report on all affairs and conditions and
the superintendents shall report on the finan-
cial statements of the society.
18) A councillors conference may be called at the
will of the president. The president shall be
the chairman of the councillor's conference.
16 041 p108 b

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
-105-
VI. Bureau of General Affairs
19) A Bureau of General Affairs shall be set up to
handle all general affairs of this society.
20) The chief director shall be the head of the
Bureau of General Affaire and shall be under
the direction and supervision of the president.
21) Several departments shall be created in the Bu-
reau of Affairs and they shall be headed up by
the directors.
VII. Accounting
22) The fiscal calender of this society shall be
from April 1 of one year to March 31 of the
following year.
23) All members shall pay a membership fee.
The membership fee and the method of collecting
it shall be determined by the president. He
shall consult members opinions.
VIII. Dissolution and Liquidation
24) This society may be dissolved by the order of
the Minister of Commerce.
25) The liquidator shall be selected by the court.
26) The liquidator shall have full authority to
represent this society.
27) The liquidator shall determine the method of
liquidating and handling property which shall
be approved by the court.
IX. Penalty
28) A member who violates the general regulations
of this society shall be fined not more than
5,000 yen.
16 041 P109 D

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
- 106 -
29) A member who violates the control reguletions
of this society shall be fined not more than
10,000 yen.
ScURCE: Toseike1 Nenkan (Control Society Year Pook)
Tokyo, p. 271, Februery 10, 1943.
26 041 p110 bu

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
-107 -
Appandix XVII
The Control Regulatione of the Japan Bicycle Control
Society (Abetract)
Chapter I General Rules.
Article 1. The control of the bicycle business by
the members of the Society is regulated
according to the following regulations
supplementing the order, established by the
Society.
Article 2. To control the production and distribution
of the Society periodically, a year is
divided into 4 periods. The first period:
April to June. The second period: July
to September. The third period: October
to December. The fourth period: January
to March.
Article 3. In this regulation of the Society, "Manu-
facturer" means a manufacturer as a member
of the Society; wholesale merchant means
a wholesaler of the Society; the Affiliated
Association means -an affiliated association
acting as the distribution adjustment con-
trol society of the city, province, urben
prefecture, and prefecture.
Chapter II Production Control.
Article 4. The manufacturer shall not manufacture bi-
cycles or their accessories, nor shall he
do remaking, without having permission from
the Society.
The manufacturer shall not manufacture the
articles that are not registered in the
Society Members' Directory.
Article 5. By the approval of authorities concerned,
the Society shall decide on the number of
bicycles to be manufactured and the arti-
cles for repair use. The Society shall
direct the manufacturer accordingly.
Article 6. Those who desire to be engaged in bicycle-
remaking business shall apply for the ap-
proval of the Society.
10 041 PL21 DW

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
-108 -
The application shall cover the following
points:
a) Indication of the amount of material,
and indication of the dealer from
whom the material should be purchased.
b)
Indication of the amount of used mate-
rials, the process planned, and amount
of material to be abandoned.
c) Amounts and kinds of the materials
which are to be apportioned to dif-
ferent workers for remaking.
d) The authentication by the purchasing
parties concerned is to be presented.
Article 7.
The members of the Society shall register
the following equipment:
a) Machine and electric motors.
b) Storehouses
c) Stores
Article 8.
The Society shall have the right of restricting
the equipment listed under the previous items.
Article 9.
The Society shall designate the dealer
from whom the manufacturer is to purchase
the materials.
Article 10. The Society shall prepare the steel and
other materials for distribution before
directing each member to manufacture bi-
cycles.
Article ll. The Society shall take a special consider-
ation concerning the following items in
regard to the records of individual members.
But the Society shall act accordingly when
there is a special direction by the author-
ities concerned.
16 041 p118 b

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
 - 109-
a) Actual results of production capacity
of an individual factory.
b) Convenience of packing and transporta-
tion.
c) Grade and quality of the manufactured
goods.
d) The result of the consignment of goods.
Article 12. Manufacturer shall not refuse the order for
manufacturing after the order was given,
without having a special reason.
Article 13. Manufacturer shall present the manufactured
bicycles within the designated period.
Article 14. Manufacturer shall not make use of mate-
rials for any other purpose than the de-
signated one.
Article 15. Manufacturer shall not ship the bicycles
without having them examined by the Japen
Bicycle Investigation Association.
Article 16. Manufacturer shall follow the regulations
and notices of the Japan Bicycle Inspec-
tion Association.
Chapter III. Distribution and Control
Article 17. According to the direction of authorities
concerned, every three months the Society
shall notify the Affiliated Association
and members of the Association the number
of bicycles and accessories to distribute
to the dealers of different cities, pro-
vinces, and prefectures.
Article 18. The Society shall have joint business with
the Affiliated Associations, the members
of the Association, and the dealers whom
the authorities concerned have designated.
Artiole 19. The Affiliated Associations shall decide
on the number of bicycles and articles
16 061 212 0

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
-110 -
for repair use and accessories to dis-
tribute to the retail dealers, after
having been notified by the Society.
Article 20. The estimation and the distribution of
the previous items shall be made accord-
ing to the order of the authorities con-
cerned.
Article 2l. The Affiliated Associations shall not
make use of goods for purposes other
than those designated by the Society.
Article 22. The Society shall direct the Affiliated
Associations, whenever there is any di-
rection by the authorities concerned,
to take special measures on the adjust-
ments of bicycles.
Chapter IV. Punishment for violators.
Article 23. When the members of the Society violate
the regulations of Article 4, 14, 15, 21,
they shall be fined not more than 500 yen.
Article 24.
Whe: the members of the Society violate
the regulations of Article 5, 6, 7, 16,
20, they shall be fined not more than one-
thousand yen.
SOURCE: Kampo, July 13, 1944..
16 041 p114 bu

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
Appendix XVIII
Essential Materials Supervision Corporation Law1
(Juyo Busshi Kanri Eidan-po)
February 24, 1942, Law No. 69
Name of Corporation:
Juyo Busshi Kanri Eidan
Capitalisation:
Yen 20,000,000, supplied entirely
by the Government
Purpose:
"To guarantee and increase stooks
of essential materials in wartime;
to provide for efficient and ade-
quate utilisation of the stored
essential materials."
The content of this Law in general is similar to the Industrial
Equipment Corporation Law (Sangyo Setsubi Eidan-po). The con-
crete projects of the Corporation are listed below.
1. Storage of the essential materials to provide for their
continuous supply to meet the demand in emergency cases, such
as air raids. If the reserved materials are enormous and the
Corporation!s facilities are insufficient, it is provided that
the Corporation can order others to store them. (Article 18).
2. Purchase, importation and sale of the essential materials.
This involves procurement of the materials for stock piling,
and disposal of the stocked materials. The Corporation can de-
mand that those who store the essential materials report on
their books and documents (Article 17)/
3. The Corporation may engage in activities necessary to
achieve its purpose, (for instance, establishment of new ware-
houses). However, since the activities of the Corporation are
concerned with the movement of materials, those activities should
be in accordance with the plans of the Government (Article 16).
The following are characteristic points of the law concerning
the corporation's financial structure:
1. It lacks provisions for issue of debentures.
2. It lacks provisions for compensation of the Corporation's
losses.
3. It includes penalties in case of negligence on the part
of Corporation's Officials, which is different from some
other Corporation's such as the Industrial Equipment
Management Corporation.
1
The name of this Law is alternatively translated as Vital
Materials Management Corporation Law.
16 041 p116 bu

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
- 112 -
Date of enforcement of this law is decided as March 5, 1942 by
the Imperial Ordinance No. 122, March 4, 1942.
Source: Keisai Tosei-ho Nempo (Economic Control Law Annual
Report) Series I, Vol. I, (January-March 1942)
p. 83 - 84
10 041 p116 bu

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
-113-
Appendix XIX
Regulations of Spall Scale Business Control Society (abstract)
I.
General Regulations
1) The purpose of this society shall be to support the
national policy of placing all small scale business
within the territory of Tokyo and Osaka under the
direction and control of the National Financial Con-
trol Society.
2)
This society shall be set up in accordance with the
decree of the National Financial Control Society.
3)
The headquarters of this society shall be located in
Tckyo.
4)
The jurisdiction of this society shall be within the
territory of Tokyo and Osaka.
II
Members
5) This society shall be composed of all small business
firms within the designated territory that come under
the direction of the competent minister.
6)
Members shall not evade, hinder or refuse inspection
by the society's officers concerning their property
and business conditions.
7) When a member of this society requests material which
concerns the National Financial Control Society and
its affairs, the society shall supply the material
without any delay.
8) Members shall obey all control regulations formulated
by the society.
III. Work and its execution
9) In order to fulfill the aim of Regulation No. 1, the
following work shall be done by all members:
a) Direct and control capital, loans and the
exchange of bank notes.
b) Promote the preparation of small scale business.
c) Strengthen the structure of small scale business.
d) Promote a closer relationship between small
scale business and industry.
16 041 p217 bu

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
-114-
e) Make surveys and do research concerning small
scale business.
f) Besides the above items, other necessary works
for the benefit of this society shall be re-
quired.
10) Control regulations of this society shall be recognized
by the Minister of Finance.
The chief director shall consult counselors in order to
formulate or modify control regulations.
11) Essential affairs of this society shall be executed by
the chief director.
IV.
Officers
12) This society shall have a chief director, a vice-director
and a certain number of superintendents and counselors.
13) The chief director shall direct and control all small
scale business affected by this society.
The vice-director shall assist the chief director in all
works and act for him in his absence.
Superintendents examine and audit the financial status of
the society.
Counselors shall answer and give opinions to the chief
directors and vice-director's inquiries.
14) The chief director shall be appointed by the Minister of
Finance and he should have a good knowledge of and ex-
perience in small scale business.
The vice-director and counselors should also understand
and have experience in small-scale business and their
appointments must be approved by the chief director and
the Minister-of Finance.
Superintendents shall be selected by the majority of mem-
bers of this society.
15) The appointments of the chief director and vice-director
shall be for three years and those of superintendents
and counselors for two years each. If the chief director
or vice-director wishes to resign during his incumbency
his resignation should be approved by the Minister of
Finance.
16 041 118 1

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
-115-
v. Conference
16) There shall be two kinds of conferences namely:
a) ordinary conferences
b) emergency conferences.
The ordinary conference shall be held once a
year while an emergency conference shall be
called whenever it is needed. Conferences
shall be called by the chief director and noti-
fications of the conference shall be mailed to
members one week before the meeting is held.
Purpose, date and place of 'the conference shall
be mentioned in the notification. The chief
director shall be the chairman of the conference.
17)
The chief director shall consult all members in
the conference concerning any change in the re-
gulations or the financial budget of the society.
18) At the annual ordinary conference the chief di-
rector shall report on all affairs and conditions
and the superintendents shall report on the finan-
cial statements of the society.
VI. Financial Management
19) The fiscal calendar of this dociety shall be
from April 1 of one year to March 31 of the
next year.
20) All members shall pay a membership fee.
The membership fee and the method of collecting
it shall be deternined by the chief director.
He shall consult the members at the ordinary
conference and adopt the members' opinion.
VII. Dissolution and Liquidation
21)
This society may be dissolved by the order of
the Minister of Finance.
22) The liquidator shall be selected by the court.
1G OGL PL1G Du

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
-116-
VIII. Penalty
23) A member who violates the general regulations
of this society shall be fined a sum of not
over 2,000 yen.
24)
A member who violates the control regulations of
this society shall be fined a sum not over
5,000 yen.
(Toseikai Nenkan Control Society Year Book, Tokyo p. 34l).
16 041 p120 bu

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
-117-
AppendixXX
Middle and Small Scele Industries. (Abstrect).
1. Economic reorganization.
National economy has been reorganized for the purpose
of expanding munitions production, promoting industrial ex-
portation and reducing peacetime industries. Medium and
small-scale industries have been converted into munitions
industries. This procedure was begun in 1940, and medium
and small scale industries have been reorganized since 1941
for a unification of industries.
II.
The policies of industrial mobilization.
1) Form of unification. Small industrial and limited
companies were legalized, for the Government has encouraged
medium and small scale industries to combine into associations
since 1939 and the members were allowed to maintain independ-
ent businesses. The mumber of small industrial associations
for different industries in March 1942 is as follows:-
Industry
Number.of amall industrial associations
Fabric
1,035
Metal
119
Machine
203
Pottery
15
Chemical
17
Lumber and Woodcraft
171
Printing
15
Others
183
Total
1,758
The new form of limited companies became effective on
1 January 1940; they were completely unified in management and
in production. The number of limited companies and their capital
in March 1942 for the different industries is as follows:-
16 041 p121 bu

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
-118-
Number of
limited
Industry
companies
Capital (Yon)
Percentage
Fabric
584
47,427,600
35.7
Metal
87
6,585,500
5.0
Machine
414
29,600,800
22.3
Chemical
181
10,632,600
8.1
Pottery
44
2,927,000
2.2
Printing and
Book-binding
18
960,400
0.7
Lumber and
Woodcraft
175
8,866,200
6.7
Food
187
22,088,700
15.1
Gas & Electric
3
30,000
0.0
Others
137
5,635.500
4.2
Total
1.830
132,804,300
100.0
The Government issued an outline of the new system of
economic structure in the reorganization of economic organiza-
tions on 7 December 1940:
1) The constitution of economic organizations.
All enterprises and associations of essential indus-
tries may be unified and all owmers and enterprisers of essen-
tial industries may be compelled to join the unified economic
orgenizations according to the classification of industries as
special corporation under the management of directors vho are
approved by the Government. Enterprises outside of Japan may
also be compelled to join the unified economic organizations
according to the classification of their industries.
2) The functions of economic organizations.
These economic organizations according to the clas-
sification of industries are the cooperative structures of the
Government. All plans, proposals and projects may be approved
by the Government and the Government, when necessary, supervises
production, distribution and management of these organizations.
The fundamentel spirit of these organizations is sacrifice for
the development of national economy.
16 041 p122 bu

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
-119-
3) Relationsnip with Government.
The Government has the right to direct and super-
vise and develop these economic organizetions.
III. Relationship with the Control Societies.
The existing industrial associations have weaknesses
in their control systems. The industrial associations had
as their aim the making of a joint profit and individual
member has the right to voice his opinion in the management
of the industries. But the Control Societies under the re-
organization of national economy has the aim of pursuing a
unified control of national policies. The Control Societies
have been organized under force and members have been com-
pelled to join by force, while the industrial associations
were organized independently and members joined of their own
free will, so that there was no principle or controlled guidance.
Furthermore, the Control Societies were organized with the aim of
promoting the entire strength of national economy by controlling
production, distribution and the direction of industries. They
serve the nation by adjusting industriel problems, improving
industrial skills, advencing industriel efficiency, improving
management and developing the business of members.
Now is the time for the Government to show its authority
in controlling the essential industries of the nation, and for
this purpose, the Government issued regulations for adjusting
industrial enterprises on ll December to restrict the trensfer,
investment, disposel and use of private industry.
1) The law for control of enterprises shall be enforced
to establish a firm foundation for national economy. All busi-
ness enterprises must be operated with the permission of Gov-
ernment and the Control Society, and the Government and Control
Society alone can transfer any industriel enterprise. In addi-
tion, new arrangements concerning an industry or additional ar-
rangements concerning an industry or the improvement of industrial
arrangements shall be made only with the permission of Government
and the Control Society.
2) Government-designated industries are prohibited to
transfer or discontinue their work without the permission of
the Government. The Government alone has the right to readjust
any arrangement in regard to commissioning, taking charge of and
transferring industrial enterprises. Also the Government
16 041 p123 b

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.95)
-120
shall issue orders for the organization or reorganization or
discontinuation of limited or stock companies.
SOURCE: Rodo Nenkan 1943 Part I, p. 160-166.
16 p41. p12€ bu

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
-121
Appendix XXI
Export Associations
Exporters' Associations (Yushutsu Kumiai) have come
into existence not only for the protection of the yen and
procurement of foreign exchange much needed for the prosecu-
tion of the war efforts, but also to provide the means and
measures for the acquisition of the war materials wherever
it was possible on one hand, and for the reduction of con-
sumption of exportable goods in Japan on the other.
The Exporters' Associations were not of recent origin.
The existed as far back as 1925, but with gradual develop-
ment of the military activity in the Far East the number of
Exporters' Associations has been remarkedly increased. Thus,
in 1935 there were 85 Exporters' Associations as against 14
in 1930.
Of the total number of the Exporters' Associations
covering various industries, there were by 1937, 40 associa-
tions related to goods, 28 to markets, and 17 to goods and
markets. Associations which exercised control over the whole
country numbered 34, while 51 were of local character.
Of the associations relating to the mrkets, the re-
gional classification mas as follows: Manchoukuo (15),
Soviet Union (2), United States and Canada (5), Centrai
America (8), Argentina (2), Europe (3), and British India
(3), Africa, Balkans and near East (4), Philippines (2).
and South Asia (2).
The activities of the Exporters' Associations became
in the course of time, over-lapping with those of the Indus-
trial Associations. (Kogyo Kumiai). This was particularly
noticeable in the production and distribution of consumers
goods, notably textiles. The seepage of various goods, es-
pecially all cotton piece goods into the home market became
increasingly dangerous to the government's object, by 1937,
of promoting export trade to build up the necessary exchange
to purchase vital raw materials, machine tools, etc. for the
expanding way industries. To correct it the Commodity Link
System was introduced in 1937.
10 041 p126 bu

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
-122-
Appendix XXII
Regulations Governing Special Responsibilities in Keeping
The following companies are designated to purchase and
keep safe miscellaneous articles for export.
Japan Trade Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Celluloid Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Rubber Articles Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Glass Articles Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Japan Machine Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
The special responsibility to keep safe the miscellaneous
articles for export for the time of the reopening of world-trade
for prosperity is an important matter. Therefore the above men-
tioned companies are authorized to purchase now and keep safe
miscellaneous articles in accordance with the following regula-
tions:
I. The scope of enrorcement.
The above mentioned five companies are authorized as the
organizations that have special responsibilities to keep safe
miscellaneous articles for export:
1) Luxury articles that have been prohibited under con-
trol regulations.
2) Miscellaneous articles that have not been manufactured
on account of the difficulty of getting raw materials.
Japanese but are made for foreign markets.
II. The method of enforcement.
1) The special ability to keep safe miscellaneous articles
for exportation for the time of the reopening of world
trade, means the ability to maintain management to pur-
chase,and keep safe the miscellaneous articles with the
minimum effort and expense.
2) Superior factories that have manufacturing skills and
experience shall be designated to keep safe the mis-
cellaneous articles for later exportation at the time
of the reopening of trade for prosperity.
direct relationship with the above mentioned designated
companies.
16 041 126 bu

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-123-
4)
The iesignated companies will order miscellaneous
articles fron the designated factories to export
to Thailand, French Indo-China, and the Southern
Areas.
5)
The designated factories shall deal with the de-
signated companies to erport their entire manufac-
tured articles to third nations.
6)
Japan Trade Prosperity Co. shall distribute ap-
propriate raw materials for manufacturing miscel-
laneous articles to the designated factories with
the permission of the Ministry of Commerce and In-
dustry.
III.
Mothods of enforcement.
1)
Under the leadership of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry the committee for safe-keeping miscellaneous
articles for export shall be established in each de-
signated company. The committee shall consist of
officials of each designated company.
2)
Each committee shall propose the plans of each fac-
tory as to the methou for keeping safe the miscel-
laneous articles, and shall obtain the permission
of the Linistry of commerce end industry.
3)
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shall instruct
all other necessary matters pertaining to the en-
forcement of the above regulations.
1
These regulations indicate (a) Post-war trading objectives
of Japan and (b) the constant urge to build up foreign ex-
change balances by starving the home markets which could
readily absorb a larger proportion of the export products
were it not for controls such as this and the commodity
link system.
SOURCE: Keisai Toseiho Nempo, Tokyo, 1942 P. 430-31
16 041 P127 D

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
-124-
Appendix XXIII
THE CO:MODITY LINK SYSTEM IN JAPAN
The substance of the Commodity Link System involves an ex-
change of a set of commodities by means of export and im-
port regulations imposed by the government. This system was
introduced in Japan in 1937, with a view to insure the impor-
tation of war supplies, while the imports of commodities for
general consumption had been. placed under rigorous control
by means of the Import Permit System or the Import Exchange
Permit System.
The Link System; i.e., the linking between exports and im-
ports of individual traders or organizations, may be divided
into Import Privilege System and an Obligatory Export System.
The former is a system for permitting imports in link with
export trade already completed, which thus gives the export-
er the privilege to import. The latter, on the contrary, is
a system of obligatory export, since the import trade already
permitted is to be linked with the export trade to be com-
pleted as a necessary condition. There are two types of the
link system, an individual commodity linking system and a
group linking system. Most of the link systems in operation
in l939 were the individual types operated predominately by
the large-scale individual concerns. The group linking sys-
tem was adopted only in the brush and rayon piece-goods trade.
In the latter industries the entrepreneurs as well as the
manufacturers are for the most part petty individuals. In
these industries imports and exports dominate the situation
exercised jointly through their organizations.
The commodity link system was enforced with reference to seven
commodities:
1. Soap link
4. Hat link
2. Brush link
5. Japanese paper link
3. Fool link
6. Cotton link
7. Rayon link
All commodity link systems in force by the end of 1939 except
the hat link system were operated as guantity link systeme.
The hat link system was the only value link system in force.
Under this system import of raw materials was permitted up to
35 percent of the value of the hats, f.o.b. or 50 percent of
the value of hat bodies. Against these imports, it was re-
quired that the corresponding products were exported within
eight months, either as hats at three times the value of
16 041 p128 bu

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
-125 -
The group link system and the value link system would appear
to have preference in the future as against individual and
quantitative link systems.
The most notable example of the efficiency of the link system
can be seen in cotton trade where it works exclusively through
the spinning companies which exercise control over all sections
of the industry. Cotton spinners acquire the right to import
raw cotton when they export yarn or tissues, or when they de-
liver yarn to officially designated associations of the manu-
facturer or the amount needed for the manufacture of the ex-
ported yarn or tissues, or vhen they deliver yarn to offical-
ly designated associations of manufacturers or exporters. The
value of raw cotton which may be imported is determined by the
amount needed for the manufacture of the exported yarn or piece
goods. Gray goods have to be exported within two months and
finished goods within two months and finished goods within
three months after the import of the raw material contained
in them and with a few exceptions the production of cotton
ma ufacturtrs for domestic consumption has been prohibited
as stocks of cotton goods placed under governmental control.
1/ For fuller details see Kyoto University Economic Review,
April and July 1939 - "The Link System in Japan" by
Prof. Kichihiko Taniguchi.
2/ Ibid., pp. 16 - 17.
16 041 p129 bu

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
-126-
Appendix XXIV
THE DEVELOP!ENT OF THE COMMODITY LIN: SYSTEM IN JAPAN
Commodities
Date
linked
Types of
Associations
Designation
onforced Exports
Imports
System
concerned
Soap link
October
Soap
Beef
Export ob-
Japan Soap
1, 1937
Tallow
ligation
Exporters
Spices 6) Individual
Association
link
Quantity
link 7)
Brush link
January
Brush
Bristles
Export ob-
Bristle Im-
1, 1930
ligation
porters'
Natural
Group link
Control As-
ebony
Quantity
sociation
link
Natural Ebony
Mexican
Importers'
fibre
Control Ass'n
Cow bones
Cow Bone Im-
porters Con-
trol Ass'n.
Wool link
March
Woolen
Wool
Import
Wool Importers'
15, 1938
goods
privilege
Control Ass'n.
Export
Janan Woolen
obligation
Yarn Export
Individual
Association
link
Japan oolen
Quantity
Textile Ex-
link
port Ass'n.
Japan Hosiery
Export Ass'n.
Japan Philip-
pine Hosiery
Export Ass'n.
Hat link
May 10,
Felt Hats
Noil &
Import
Japan Felt-hat
1938
Hat bodies
other
privilege
Raw Material
Waste
Export Ob-
Importers' Con-
wool
ligation
trol Ass'n.
Individual
Japan Felt-Hat
link
Export Ass'n.
Value link
Japanese
June 1,
Japanese
Manila
Export
Japanese Paper
paper link
1938
paper
hemp
obligation
Export Promo-
Individual
tion Ass'n.
link
Quantity link
10 p41 p130 bu

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
-127-
Commodities
Date
linked
Types of
Associations
Desimation
enforoed Exports
Imports
System
concerned
Cotton link
July 1,
Cotton Goods
Raw cot-
Import
Japan Cotton
1938
ton
privilege
Spinners' Ass'n.
Export
Federation of
obligation
Japan Cotton-
Individual
goods Export
link
Associations
Quantity
link
Rayon link
August 1, Rayon
Rayon
Import
Japan Rayon Ass'n.
1938
yarn &
pulp
privilege
Federation of
textiles
Export ob-
Japan
ligation
Rayon-goods Ex-
Individual
port Ass'n:
1ink (yarns)
Group link Federation of
(textiles) Japan Export
Quantity
Rayon Dealers'
link
Associations.
6) Enforced in February 1936
7) Spices are linked with a value syatem
16 041 p131 bu

=== Page 199 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIA XV
10
THE NATIONAL POIICY COMPANIES OF JAPAN - 1943
041
P132
Authorised
Capital
Capitali-
Paid-up
bu
Date of
zation
(in thous-
Establishment
(in thous-
and yen)
and yen)
Karafuto Development Company
6-1938
50,000
25,000
Teito High Speed Transit Eidan
7-1941
60,000
25,000
Nippon Publication Distribution Co.
5-1941
10,000
5,000
Nippon Cinema Materials Control Co.
3-1943
5,000
500
Oriental Development Co.
12-1908
100,000
15,000
Formosa Development Co.
6-1936
60,000
48,750
Yokohama Specie Bank
2-1886
100,000
100,000
Bank of Japan
10-1882
100,000
45,000
Nippon Hypothetic Bank
6-1897
141,920
117,795
Okayama Ken Agriculture & Industrial Bank
12-1897
3,000
3,000
128
Aichi Ken Agriculture & Industrial Bank
3-1898
6,000
4,500
Kanagawa Agrioulture & Industrial Bank
3-1898
4,000
4,000
Ibaraki Agriculture & Industrial Bank
4-1898
3,000
3,000
Fukushima Agriculture & Industrial Bank
6-1898
4,000
4,000
Hokkaido Colonization Bank
2-1900
20,885
12,770
Nippon Industrial Bank
3-1902
200,000
87,500
People's Gold Depository
7-1938
10,000
9,690
Wartime Financial Gold Depository
4-1942
300,000
150,000
Nippon Securities Exchange
6-1943
200,000
200,000
Pension Gold Depository
6-1938
30,000
30,000
Industrial Associetion Central Gold Depository
12-1927
35,700
35,700
Nippon Cotton Fishing Net Mfg.
9-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Manila Hemp Net Co.
12-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Cil Fertilisers
5-1940
3,000
3,000
Farm Machinery Distribution Co.
5-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Throwing Mfg. Sale
5-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Straw Products Distribution
7-1940
3,000
3,000
Nippon Rubber for Farm Equipment Dist.
9-1940
500
300
Agricultural Insecticide
10-1940
300
150
Hippon Manila Hemp Net Mfg.
11-1940
500
500

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Capitali-
Paid-up
Date of
sation (in
(In thoug-
Bstab-
thousand
and yen)
lishpent
yen)
Teikoku Oil Control
9-1942
32,185
15,735
Fodder Distribution
4-1938
8,450
5,575
Toa Tea Mfg.
7-1932
1,200
300
Dai Nippon Phosphorus Ores
6-1939
3,000
1,500
Organic Fertiliser
12-1939
30,000
1,500
Nippon Raw Hemp
6,1940
5,000
5,000
Nippon Export of Farm Products
7-1940
10,000
5,000
Nippon Fertiliser
7-1940
50,000
13,250
Nippon Starch
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Chosen Livestock Dist.
11-1940
1,000
500
Fodder Mfg.
4-1941
5,000
5,000
129
Nippon Seeds
5-1941
150
75
Farmland Development Eidan
5-1941
30,000
15,000
Nippon Sweet Potatoes & Potatoes
8-1941
10,000
5,000
Nippon Raw Hide
11-1941
10,500
5,000
Nippon Rabbit
11-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Raised Fur
10-1939
150
75
Dai Nippon Fur Control
9-1940
n
7n1
Nippon Charcoal for Gas
5-1941
10,000
10,000
Nippon Lumber
8-1941
50,000
25,000
Nippon Special Forest Products Control
4-1942
1,500
1,500
Marine (products) Skin Control
10-1939
1,000
500
Nippon Vegetable Gelatine Control
9-1940
2,000
1,000
Kokusan Fuel Equipment
12-1940
700
350
041
Hippon Godo Pearl
8-1942
1,000
500
Nippon Marine Products
11-1942
1,500
1,500
Toikoku Marine Products Control
12-1942
50,000
50,000
Nippon Silk-Yarn By-Products Control
6-1940
5,000
2,500
Nippon Silk-Yarn Control
5-1941
80,000
40,000
Development Co. for Silk-Yarn Use
2-1942
3,000
3,000

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
16
Authorized
Capital
041
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
P134
Estab-
tion (in
(In thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yep).
bu
Nippon Silk-Yarn Mfg.
7-1943
100,000
50,000
Kyoto Green Producers
1-1928
2,700
2,440
Beer Joint-Sales
8-1933
2,000
1,000
Canned Crab Kyowakai Joint-Sales
7-1935
1,000
1,000
Canned Crab Sales
6-1939
150
150
Nippon Marine Products Dist.
8-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Sugar Distribution
6-1940
2,000
500
Nippon Salmon & Trout Distribution
6-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Meat Distribution
8-1941
6,000
6,000
Kanto Fowl
10-1941
198
198
Kyokan Fowl
10-1941
198
198
Fukuoka Ken Fowl
11-1941
100
50
Zenkoku Soy Sauce Control
11-1941
1,000
1,000
Nippon Amimo Acid Control
11-1941
1,500
1,500
Zenkoku Bean Paste
11-1941
1,00ρ
1,000
130
Nippon Canned Food Control
3-1942
6,000
3,000
Central Food Public Corporation (Eidan)
9-1942
100,000
60,898
Shoko Kumiai Central Gold Depository
11-1936
16,000
9,983
Kokumin Kosei Gold Depository
7-1941
100,000
97,520
Industrial Establishmant Public Corp. (Eidan)
12-1942
200,000
78,450
Nippon Iron Mfg.
1-1934
800,000
671,000
Nippon Precious Metals
12-1937
1,000
1,000
Nippon Gold Production Promotion
9-1938
50,000
40,000
Teikoku Mine Development
8-1939
90,000
27,000
Steel & Iron Raw Materiale Control
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Teikoku Light Metal Control
9-1940
25,000
12,500
Nippon Metal Dist.
9-1940
10,000
5,000
Teikoku Manganese Chrome
4-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Wire Rod Products Control
6-1941
1,000
1,000
Nippon Cast-Iron Tube Control
7-1941
3,000
1,500
Nippon Mine-Ball Control
8-1941
500
500
Nippon Ore Dressing Reagent
9-1941
500
250

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(In thous-
lishpent
thousand yep)
and yen)
Nippon Hoops Control
10-1941
500
500
Iron & Steel Sales Control
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Shavel Control
12-1941
500
500
Nippon Black-Lead Crucible
1-1942
500
500
Nippon Band Steel Control
1-1942
500
500
Black Sheet Control
2-1942
100
100
Nippon Wire Tube Control
3-1942
500
500
Nippon Empty Can Control
3-1942
500
500
Nippon Light Metal Control
4-1942
2,000
2,000
Wire Distribution
4-1942
2,000
2,000
Metal Distribution
5-1942
2,000
2,000
Nippon Ships Hardware Equipment Control
5-1942
1,000
500
Nippon Flourite Control
5-1942
3,000
1,500
Special Steel Sale
6-1942
1,000
1,000
Metal Collection Control
7-1942
500
500
131
Nippon Automobile
6-1914
3,000
2,500
Callons Oil Glycerine Control
3-1926
800
800
Nippon Leather & Hide Control
3-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Chikatabi Joint Sales
9-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Automobile Tire Control
11-1939
1,000
250
Nippon Kaisen Control
12-1939
100
100
Nippon Tawnin Industry
12-1939
1,700
1,700
Nippon Rubber Toy and Sport Goods for Export Control
1-1940
200
100
Nippon Metal and Glass from Waste Bulbs
2-1940
195
195
Cement Joint Sales
3-1940
5,000
1,250
18 042 p135
Rubber Goods for Marine Ind. Joint-Sales
8-1940
150
150
Dai Nippon Asbestos
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Rubber Band Control
10-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Joint-Sales for Authorised Rubber Sporting Goods
10-1940
100
Nippon Industrial Rubber Goods Control
12-1940
500.
Nippon Rubber Hose Control
12-1940
1,000
Paints Control
12-1940
150

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
17
Appendix XXV - continued
041
Authorised
Capital
P13G-bu
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Nippon Waste Glass Control
12-1940
1,000
500
Export Rubber Promotión
12-1940
2,000
500
Nippon Mixed Dye Stuff Sale
1-1941
10,000
10,000
Carbide Joint Sale
2-1941
1,000
250
Toa Lacquer Control
3-1941
1,000
750
Nippon Repossessed Tire Sale Control
3-1941
500
250
Koa Laoquer Ltd. Co.
4-1941
100
100
Nippon Tannin Trading Co.
4-1941
1,500
1,500
Rubber Control for Medical Use
4-1941
190
90
Nippon Gunpowder Control
5-1941
2,500
1,250
Nippon Shimbo Leather Control
7-1941
190
475
Nippon Industrial Leather Products Control
8-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Cyanide Soda Sales
9-1941
150
150
Nippon Gall Nuts Control
10-1941
500
250
Nippon Industrial Leather Gloves Control
10-1941
150
150
1
Chuo Oil Cloth
10-1941
190
47.5
2
Tobu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
180
Chubu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
100
100
Kansai Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
180
Seibu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
125
Toyo Licquor Industry
11-1941
150
150
Nippon Celluloid Control
11-1941
500
250
11-1941
200
100
Nippon Waste Qelluloid Control
Nippon Shoes Dist. Control
11-1941
1,000
500
Toa Refined Laoquer for Rolling Stock
12-1941
150
75
Raw Materials for Glue Control
12-1941
500
500
Nippon Reproduced Leather Products
12-1941
190
190
12-1941
1,000
500
Nippon Mixed Resin Control
Tar Products Distribution Control
2-1942
3,000
3,000
2-1942
195
195
Nippon Tar Medium Dist.
3-1942
2,000
2,000
Soda for Industrial Chemicals
4-1942
190
190
Nippon Photo Material Control
5-1942
198
99
Nippon Steatite Dist. Control
5-1942
190
190
Shinko China Dist. Control
Nippon Light Metal Equipment Control
5-1942
2,000
2,000

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
Appondix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yeu)
and
Nippon Organic kubber Chemicals Control
7-1942
190
190
Nippon Pine Root Oil Products Control
8-1942
300
300
Nippon Soap Distribution Control
7-1942
3,000
3,000
Nippon Match Control
9-1942
5,000
3,000
Organic Mixed Goods Dist. Control
12-1942
2,000
1,500
Nippon Sulphuric Acid Dist. Control
1-1943
5,000
3,000
Kanto Cement Sale
1-1943
3,000
1,500
Chukei Cement Sale
1-1943
1,000
500
Chukoku Cement Sale
1-1943
1,600
000
Nippon Potassium Salt
2-1943
300
300
Nippon Photo Sensitive Material Sales
2-1943
2,000
2,000
Tokoku Cement Sale
22-1943
1,000
900
Keamsai Cement Sale
2-1943
3,000
1,300
Kyushu Cement Sale
2-1943
1,000
800
Hokkaide Cement Sale
3-1943
1,000
500
133
Hokuriki Cement Sale
3-1943
700
400
Nippon Fire Proof Brick Control
3-1943
3,000
3,000
Nippon Reagent Control
4-1943
1,000
500
Paints Control
4-1943
2,000
2,000
Nippon Temper Machine Tools
10-1941
180
45
Hyojun Electrical Machinery Joint-Sale
7-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Automobile Dist.
7-1942
10,000
10,000
Iron Tube
7-1942
500
250
Nippon Towel Mfg. Control
9-1938
2,000
1,550
Meriyasu Mfg. Control
6-1939
6,500
6,900
Nippon Cotton Fishing Nets Mfg.
9-1939
2,000
2,000
16
Zenkoku Medical Gause Mfg. Control
9-1939
500
500
Nippon Cotton Sufu Cloth Control
10-1939
20,000
12,500
Nippon Waste Cloth Control
10-1939
120
120
Nippon Waste Fiber Dist. Control
10-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Special Artificial Silk Yarn Control
4-1939
500
500

=== Page 205 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
16 041 p138 bu
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Nippon Throwing Yarn Mfg. Sales
12-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Manila Hemp Net
12-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Special Cotton Sufu Cloth
1-1940
1,000
750
Chuo Mfg. Dis. Control for Work Clothes & Uniforms
4-1940
2,000
2,000
Nippon Used Cotton Control
4-1940
500
250
Nippon Used Fibre Control
5-1940
3,000
1,500
Nippon Sewing Thread Mfg. Dist.
5-1940
1,500
1,500
Nippon Spinning Waste Cloth
6-1940
150
150
Nippon Raw Hemp
6-1940
5,000
5,000
Nippon Special Cloth for Rayon
7-1940
500
500
Nippon Cocoon Products
8-1940
10,000
2,000
Zenkoku Raw Material for Japanese Paper Control
9-1940
190
190
Nippon Yara Spinning Yarn Control
10-1940
2,000
2,000
Nippon Tabi Mfg. Control
10-1940
3,000
3,000
Nippon Special Cotton Yarn Cloth Control
10-1940
1,500
1,500
134
Nippon Used Manila Hemp Nets Mfg.
11-1940
500
500
Nippon Special Cloth Control
12-1940
1,000
500
Western Paper Joint-Sales
12-1940
180
180
Nippon Publication Div.
12-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Hemp Fibre
5-1941
30,000
3,000
Nippon Japanese Paper Mfg. Control
8-1941
1,250
1,250
Nippon Sheet Paper Control
10-1941
1,000
500
Chuo Dis. Control for Mariyasu products
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Wool Control
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Chuo Mfg. Dist. Control for Towels
1-1942
1,000
1,000
Chuo Mfg. Dist. Control for Japanese Clothings
1-1942
1,500
1,500
Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control for Cotton Fibre Goods
1-1942
5,000
5,000
Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control for Ready Made Cloths
1-1942
5,000
5,000
Nippon Silk & Rayon Fibre Dist. Control
1-1942
20,000
20,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Cotton Cloth
1-1942
10,000
10,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Woolen Thread
1-1942
3,000
3,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Fabi
1-1942
2,000
2,000

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Eatab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand. yen)
and yen)
Nippon Silk Sewing Thread Mfg. & Dist. Control
2-1942
2,300
2,300
Chuo Dist. Control for Woolen Blankets
2-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Sail Cloth
2-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Cotton Sufu Cloth Dist.
3-1942
30,000
30,000
Tokyo To Fibre Products Dist. Control
3-1942
10,000
10,000
Nippon Silk & Cotton Mfg. & Sales
5-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon By-Products of Cocoon Yarn Control
7-1942
5,000
2,500
Nippon Silk-Rayon Cloth Mfg.
10-1942
40,000
40,000
Nippon Hats, Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control
5,000
5,000
Toa Grains Import Control
5-1938
150
150
Nippon Export Automobile Sale
9-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Export Agricultural Products
9-1940
10,000
10,000
Celluloid Export Production
9-1940
150
150
Fibre Products Export Promotion
11-1915
10,000
2,500
Toa Lumber Trade
12-1940
2,500
2,500
Glass Products Export Promotion
12-1940
2,000
500
135
Rubber Products Export Promotion
12-1940
2,000
500
Toa Raw Material for Plant Oil Import
12-1940
150
150
Toa Scrap Iron Import
12-1940
300
300
Toa Pig Bristle Import
12-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Trade Promotion
1-1941
25,000
6,250
Toa By-Products of Cocoon Yarn Import
1-1941
1,000
250
Nippon Raw Material for Glue Import Control
1-1941
200
200
Silk & Rayon Export Promotion
3-1941
5,000
5,000
China Export Promotion
4-1941
3,000
750
Nippon Machinery Export Promotion
7-1941
5,000
1,250
Nippon Raw Cotton Import Control
7-1941
2,500
2,500
Nippon Leather Products Export Promotion
1-1942
195
195
Chemical Products Export Promotion
1-1942
3,000
1,500
0130
Koeki Eidan
6-1943
300,000
213,955
Kita Karafuto Petroleum
6-1926
20,000
20,000
bu
Kit Karafuta Mining
8-1926
10,000
10,000
Showa Finished Products of Agriculture
12-1934
12,000
12,000

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXY - continued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and ye)
g
Alcohol Transportati
2-1938
5,000
3,980
Toa Alcohol Development
3-1938
8,000
8,000
Teihaku Fuel Development
7-1938
200,000
120,000
Teikoka Ceke
2-1939
5,000
1,250
Petroloum Dist. Control
4-1940
20,000
10,000
5-1940
7,180
6,930
Nippon Fuel Burner
6-1940
50,000
25,000
Nippon Coal
9-1940
1,000
500
Hokkaido Coal Sale
Joban Coal
9-1940
1,000
250
9-1940
1,000
500
Yamaguchi Coal
10-1940
1,000
250
Nishi Kyushu Coal
Alcobol Dist.
10-1940
6,000
6,000
11-1940
1,000
250
Karafuto Coal
4-1941
10,410
10,410
Kyodo Enterprise
9-1941
260,000
260,000
Teikoku Petroloum
Each Do Fu & Ken Petroleum Distribution
Between
11-1941 &
4,500 &
4,500
&
1-1942
160
90
Each Do Fu & Ken Coal Distribution
Between
3-1942 &
9,000 &
9,000
6-1942
120
120
11-1942
5,000
5,000
Nippon Postal Communication
3-1938
85,800
63,556
Kokusai Electric Communication
10-1942
10,000
5,000
Wireless Telegraph &.Telephone of Ships
4-1937
20,000
10,000
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Works
4-1939
1,541,000
1,466,000
Nippon Electric Power Generation & Transmission
4-1942
65,000
65,000
Hokkaido Power Distribution
4-1942
164,700
161,295
Tokoku Power Distribution
4-1942
805,000
805,000
Kanto Power Distribution
4-1942
200,000
109,58%
Chubu Power Distribution
4-1942
138,000
119,486
Hokuriku Power Distribution
4-1942
560,000
507,253
Kansai Power Distribution
4-1942
58,500
58,500
Shikoku Power Distribution
4-1942
170,000
170,000
Chukoku Power Distribution
4-1942
230,000
230,000
Kyushu Power Distribution
8-1942
100,000
86,500
Toa Marine Transport

=== Page 208 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Shooi Coal
7-1935
500
500
Fushiki Harbour Transport
2-1941
850
850
Rumoi Harbor Transport
6-1941
430
430
Hokkaido Coal Transport
7-1941
10,000
8,000
Hiroshima Harbour Transport
3-1942
1,000
500
Onoda Harbour Transports
3-1942
150
375
Karatsu Harbor Transport
3-1942
100
25
Railway Department Coal Transport
3-1942
1,000
1,000
Hakodate Sea & Land Works
4-1942
1,000
1,000
Omi Harbour Transport
4-1942
190
190
Ube Harbour Transport
5-1942
195
48
Niigata Harbour Transport
6-1942
1,750
1,750
araihama Harbour Transport
7-1942
190
190
Sakada Harbour Transport
7-1942
195
195
7-1942
650
650
Nabetsu Harbour Transport
Hakata Harbour Transport
7-1942
1,000
500
137
Notor Sailing Ship Transport Control
7-1942
5,000
2,500
Shiokama Harbour Transport
8-1942
550
550
Haahimobe Harbour Transport
8-1942
950
950
Sakai Harbour Transport
8-1942
195
195
Akita Harbour Transport
9-1942
720
720
Kimugaura Harbour Transport
11-1942
180
180
12-1942
180
180
Atern Harbour Raft Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Nagoya Harbour Transport
Yokkaichi Harbour Transport
12-1942
1,000
1,000
12-1942
3,000
3,000
Kobe Ship Porterage
12-1942
4,057
4,050
Osaka Ship Porterage
12-1942
30,00)
30,000
041
Yokohama Harbour Transport
12-1942
30,000
30,000
Tokyo Harbor Transport
12-1942
1,800
1,800
Osaka Raft
12-1942
5,000
5,000
Hirohata Harbour Transport
12-1942
25,000
25,000
Kammon Harbour Transport
12-1942
30,000
30,000
Kobe Harbour Transport

=== Page 209 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
P142
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
bu
Kausaki Ship Porterage
12-1942
2,500
2,500
Wakamatsu Harbour Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Yokohama Ship Porterage
12-1942
3,000
3,000
Tokyo Ship Porterage
12-1942
3,500
3,500
Atarn Harbour Transport Norks
1-1943
4,500
4,500
1-1943
3,500
3,500
Hakodate Harbour Transport
Tokyo Harbour Raft
1-1943
1,500
1,500
Nagoya Ship Porterage
3-1943
1,500
1,500
Nittetsu Hanishi Harbour Transport
3-1943
1,000
1,000
Kure Harbour Transport
4-1943
10,000
10,000
Otoru Coal Harbour Transport
5-1942
800
800
Shimisu Harbour Transport
6-1943
3,780
3,780
Oita Harbour Transport
6-1943
150
150
Kushiro Harbour Transport
7-1943
2,000
2,000
138
7-1943
1,800
1,800
Kushiro Harbour Coal Transport
7-1943
2,500
2,500
Nagasaki Harbour Transport
7-1943
1,150
1,150
Muroran Coal Harbour Transport
7-1943
6,000
6,000
Muroran Harbour Transport
8-1943
1.400
1,400
Taururuga Sea & Land Transport
8-1943
800
800
Nagoya Raft Works
8-1939
100,000
62,376
Dai Nippon Air Transportation
9-1937
100,420
100,420
Nippon Transportation
7-1941
60,000
25,000
Teito High Speed Transportation
12-1939
195
98
Nippon Controlled Sport Goods Dis.
9-1939
500
500
Tenkoku Medic 1 Gauze Mfg. Control
1-1940
500
500
Tenkoku Absorbent Cotton Mfg. Control
4-1940
500
500
Nippon Herbs Control
5-1940
195
195
Zenkoku Medical Material Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570.
Tobu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Chubu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Seibu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1941
3,000
1,500
Nippon Medical Implements Production Control

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Osaka Harbour Transport
12-1942
65,000
65,000
Kammon Ship Porterage
12-1942
2,500
2,500
Osaka Harbour Coal Transport
12-1942
15,000
15,000
Osaka River Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Amagasaki Harbour Transport
12-1942
6,700
6,700
Sakai Harbour Transport
12-1942
500
500
Fushimi Harbour Transport
12-1942
1,000
1,000
Nittesu Yawata Harbour Transport
12-1942
6,500
6,500
139
bu

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lighment
thoueand yen) and yen)
Nippon Medical Implements Distribution Control
7-1941
5,000
3,750
Nippon Dental Supply Control
1-1942
300
300
Nippon Medical Care Public Corp.
6-1942
100,000
148,915
Zenkoku Sanitary Cotton Wholesale
11-1942
500
500
Zonkoku Medical Goods Control
12-1942
2,500
1,500
Housing Public Corp. (Eidan)
5-1941
100,000
56,726
SOURCE: Kigyo Tobe1 Soran (1943) pp. 35-47.
140

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.94)
35-7.
SECRET
225
Copy No.
POREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enomy Branoh
POSTWAR CONTROL OF THE JAPANESE LIGHT METALS INDUSTRY
September 20, 1945
SECRET
16 052 Cover

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
Table of Contente
PART I.
SUMMARY
1
PART II.
DISCUSSION
3
A. Justification of the Control Proposals
3
1. How and Why the Japanese Light Metals
Industry Developed
3
2.
Japanese Production, Consumption and
Requirements of Light Metals
7
3.
Sources and Requirements of Raw Materials
for the Japanese Light Metals Industry
9
4.
Potential Role of Sorap Metal in Supplying
Future Japanese Requirements for the Light
Metals
14
5.
Labor Requirements in the Light Metals
16
Industry
6.
Future Sources of Light Metal Products for
16
Other Far Eastern Areas
7.
Aluminum and Magnesium as Substitutes
for Other Metals
17
B. Proposed Controls Over the Japanese Light
18
Metals Industry
Proposal 1
18
Proposal 2
20
Proposal 3
20
PART III. APPENDICES
22
Appendix 1, Alumina Plants in Japan Proper
23
Appendix 2, Aluminum Plants in Japan Proper
24
Appendix 3, Magnesium Plants in Japan Proper
25
Appendix 4,
Major Japanese Aluminum Alloy
26
Sheet Rolling Mills
Appendix 5,
Japanese Production, Imports and
27
Exports of Aluminum
Appendix 6,
Japanese Production, Imports and
Exports of Magnesium
29
Appendix 7,
Japanese Imports, Requirements and
Stockpiles of Bauxite
30
Appendix 8,
Chemical Composition of Some Naturally
Occurring Aliminous Raw Materials
31
Appendix 9,
Production Processes Used in the
Japanese Light Metals Industries
35
Appendix 10, Employment and Production Rate in U.S.
Light Metals Industry
44
Appendix 1l, Japanese Exports of Aluminum Manu-
factures by Values
SECRE
45
Le oss ps of se nobu eos up

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
5. Light metals plants now in existence in former Japanese-.
controlled areas of the Asiatic mainland are more than adequate to
produce the minor amounts of finished light metals products which
Japan exported to other Far Eastern areas in the prewar years.
6. Elimination of Japanese light metals production is essential
to prevent substitution of aluminum, magnesium and their alloys for
certain uses of iron and steel, copper and other metals whose control
may be undertaken.
7. Employment in any aspect of the Japanese light metals industry
was very minor in the Japanese peacetime economy. The displacement of
workers from the present over-expanded industry should therefore not be
a substantial factor in determining the future of light metals produc-
tion or processing in Japan.
The following fundamental steps appear to be necessary for the
complete elimination of aluminum and magnesium production and for the
strict limitation of their processing in Japan:
1. Removal or destruction of all Japanese plants producing
alumina, aluminum or magnesium metal.
2. Removal or destruction of all Japanese light metals processing
equipment not required to meet approved civilian requirements of fab-
ricated products.
3. Controls over imports of alumina and of primary and secondary
aluminum, magnesium and their alloys, and over selected raw materials
for their production.
16 052 p€ 

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
Postwar Control of the Japanese Light
Motale Industry
PART I - SUMMARY
Thorough study of the Japanese light metals industry indicates
that complete elimination of aluminum and magnesium production and strict
limitation of their processing are necessary steps toward the industrial
disarmament of Japen to safeguard future peace. The following basic
reasons support this conclusion:
1. The Japanese light metals industry was created during the
1930's solely to make Japan self-sufficient in these metals, which are
essential in the manufacture of aircraft, inoendiary bombs, and other
materials of war.
2. Production and processing of aluminum and magnesium have
been expanded far beyond any legitimate Japanese civilian needs for these
metals and, unless controlled, will be of continuing military value to
Japan.
3. It will not be possible to control the Japanese light metals
industry by limiting imports of raw materials, because both aluminum and
magnesium can be produced from materials available in Japan.
4. Japanese requirements for aluminum and magnesium were formerly
met by net imports so modest in amount that a similar arrangement in the
postwar period should be economically feasible and justifiable.
ECRE

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
which Japan was actively fostering the rapid expansion of all industries
vital to a war program.
During the years immediately preceding 1934, world aluminum pro-
duction suffered a marked slump. Overall world output in 1933 was only
53.5 percent of the 1930 level; in the United States the figure was
37.2 percent. Obviously no economic justification existed for establish-
ment of the Japanese aluminum industry at that time.
The importance nevertheless attached by the Japanese government to
production of the light metals is readily shown by the manner in which the
aluminum'industry was fostered and subsidized. The government encouraged
the establishment of aluminum manufacturing companies sponsored by old-
line concerns with technological background, with control over power in-
stallations or with experience in importing machinery and supplies.
The pioneer producers had the benefit of foreign technical assist-
ance and imported equipment in building and equipping the new plants.
Although these factors facilitated development of the industry, they
probably made installation costs high. Production costs for aluminum
were also elevated by the necessity of importing not only the basic raw
material, bauxite, but also various accessory raw materials.
In June 1936 the infant industry was granted the protection of a
new tariff law which increased the duty on aluminum ingot from 72 to
295 yen per metric ton. The duty on scrap was raised to the same figure.
Another substantial impetus to expansion of the industry was given
by the "Light Metal Manufacturing Industry Law promulgated on May 1, 1939.
1
Under this law, companies licensed to enter the light metals field were
1 Aluminum Nenkan-Magnesium Soran (1939).
re 058 Pe b

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
PART II - DISCUSSION
In studying the question of economic controls as a means of curb-
ing future Japanese aggression, it is obviously necessary to examine all
branches of industry which are major contributors to war potential.
Fundamentally, interest centers in preventing manufacture of the actual
instruments of war, but back of such production lies the supply of basic
materials such as metals. Because the light metals, aluminum and mag-
nesium, have achieved outstanding importance in modern warfare, particu-
larly for aircraft and incendiaries, this industry must be considered
basically as a part of the Japanese war machine.
It is, therefore, essential to study all aspects of the Japanese
light metals industry in order to determine whether controls are neces-
sary, whether they are feasible and how they may best be applied.
A. Justification of the Control Proposals
1. How and Why the Japanese Light Metals Industry Developed
Because the role of the light metals in modern warfare is thoroughly
established, it is not necessary to dwell in detail on their importance
to the Japanese in the current war. The Japanese aircraft industry is
heavily dependent on light metaI alloys, as is ours. The Japanese use
aluminum and magnesium in incendiary and other bombs, as we do. In other
Japanese war material also, wide use is made of the light metals.
These uses were obviously anticipated long before l94l. Magnesium
production was undertaken in Japan in l93l and aluminum production began
in 1934. The two industries were therefore created during the period in
16 058 P8 

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
exempt from profit tax, income tax and local taxes for five years after
their completion, and were exempt from import duties on approved machinery
and equipment. Licensed companies were also permitted unusually liberal
terms with regard to capital increases and issuing of debentures.
The government reserved the right to inspect plants, set prices,
regulate imports, exports and sales of the light metals and the required
raw materials, and, based on military necessity, to order increases in
capacity, changes in manufacturing processes, stockpiling of raw materials,
and research on manufacturing problems, and to regulate corporate form.
Because of the liberal provisions of this law and the previous
liberal policy, a number of companies were encouraged to enter the field.
However, it seems likely that in any event other factors would have
directed the erection of a number of relatively small plants rather than
a few large ones. Of most weight was undoubtedly the not too abundant
supply of electric power, which made it advisable to scatter the light
metals plants wherever power surpluses were available or where new power
installations (particularly hydroelectric) were feasible. In addition,
security considerations probably also dictated a scattered light metals
industry.
The Japanese government fostered installation of light metals
plants not only in Japan Proper but also in Formosa, Korea, Manchuria
and North China in order to take advantage of resources in raw materials
and electric power. Consequently the light metals capacity at present
available in Japan itself is considerably increased by the capacities in-
stalled in other Japanese-controlled areas. Because this development has
8670

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
-6-
been accelerated since l941, and because of other changes during the war
years, the present status of the industry is somewhat uncertain, though
the following summary is believed to be substantially correct:
Alumina
Aluminum
Magnesium
No. of plants, Japan Proper
.13
13
7
11
11
n
, other Jap. areas
10
9
7
n
n
n , all
11
11
23
22
DI
Cap., m.t./yr., Japan Proper
429,000
山7,500
9,400
n
n
", other Jap. areas
230,000
137,500
10,950
".,
n
", all
n
659,000
285,000
20,350
Owmership, location and annual capacities of individual plants are
listed in Appendices 1, 2 and 3 of Part III.
Between production of the light metals and their emergence as
finished goods for military or civilian use stands the fabricating step
in which the metals or their alloys are rolled, extruded, forged or cast
into usable semi-fabricated shapes. Ire Japanese light metals fabrication
industry antedates the production of aluminum and magnesium, for the
Japanese had been fabricating imported aluminum on a modest scale for a
number of years. In this field the Japanese were able to draw on the
experience of several large concerns well-versed in handling other metals.
Foreign technicians and imported equipment were also brought in before
the war.
There is little reason to doubt that the fabricating industry was
adequate to process the Japanese wartime output of aluminum and magnesium.
Much of the equipment is known to be modern though some degree of im-
provisation has probably entered into the wartime expansion of the industry.
1e 05 pa bu

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.94)
-7 -
Available lists of Japanese metal fabricating plants cover opera-
tions not here considered as having to do with the processing of the
light metals and their alloys into primary shapes. Thè list of fabricat-
ing plants in Appendix 4 is restricted to those believed to be the major
installations specializing in the rolling of aluminum alloy sheet.
Some of these mills also made forgings and extrusions but most light
metal castings, forgings and extrusions are believed to have been made
in airframe plants, and some castings were made in small foundries.
Such plants are not included in this study and are therefore not listed
in Appendix 4. Likewise, this appendix does not include those plants
producing finished products from the primary shapes, nor is it necessary
to consider this category for purposes of control. Such plants will be
automatically restricted if the metal producing plants and the primary
fabricating plants are controlled.
2. Japanese Production, Consumption and Requirements of Light Metals
Before production of the light metals began in Japan, consumption
1
was relatively small and was of course met entirely by imports. Pro-
duction of magnesium metal began on a small scale in l93l; apparent con-
sumption (including very small imports) increased from 10 tons in 1931
to 138 tons in 1934, averaging 76 tons. After this period, magnesium
production was rapidly expanded; capacity in Japan Proper is estimated
to have reached 9,400 metric tons, and in all Japanese-controlled areas,
20,350 metric tons.
1
See Appendices 5 and 6 of Part III for data on Japanese production,
exports and imports of aluminum and magnesium.
1050

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
From 1926 to 1929, inclusive, aluminum imports averaged 3,659
metric tons annually; in the depression years of 1930 to 1933 they dropped
to an average of 7,830 metric tons. Aluminum production began in 1934
and apparent consumption averaged 16,825 metric tons from 1934 thru 1937,
of which an average of 71 percent came from imports. Imports totalled
about 23,000 metric tons in 1938 and again in 1939, accounting for 63 per-
cent and 51 percent of apparent consumption. Imports dropped to 2,420
metric tons in 1940, presumably due to foreign embargoes and to the war
in Europe rather than to lack of interest on the part of the Japanese.
As installed capacity increased, domestic output advanced steadily
from the 66l etric tons produced in 1934 to a reported maximum of 140,000
metric tons in 1943, presumably for all Japanese-controlled areas.
It is
believed that about 50 percent of the 1943 production came from plants in
Japan Proper. After 1943, aluminum production dropped, largely due to de-
creased imports of bauxite, and the Japanese were able to produce only
1
6,500 metric tons of aluminum in the first quarter of 1945.
The aluminum consumed in Japan in 1934 was distributed among the
2
following uses:
Industry
Quantity in
Percent
metric tons
of Total
Transportation (land, water, air)
4,230
38
Housenold utensils and foodequipment
1,802
16
Electric cables and wire
1,915
17
Machinery
901
384324
Steel metallurgy
901
Non-ferrous alloys
450
Building
338
Chemical equipment
225
Other
450
Total
11,262
100
1/
Report of Prince Higashi-Kuni to Japanese Diet, quoted in Domei radio
broadcast, Sept. 5, 1945.
2/
Percentages - The Mining Magazine (London) Vol. 59, No. 2, p. 81, Aug. 1938.
Quantity - See Appendix 5 of Part III.
z 05a pie b

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
-9 -
Because of advances in civilian uses of light metals, Japanese
consumption in the postwar period probably can not reasonably be pushed
back to the level of the years before l934. Per capita consumption of
aluminum in Japan from 1926 through 1933 averaged only about ? 1b. an-
nually; in the same period apparent consumption in the United States
was about 2 to 3 lbs. per person per year. A 40 percent increase over
1926-l929 consumption of aluminum in Japan would raise the allowance to
about 12,000 metric tons per year, and would be approximately at the 1934
level.
3. Sources and Requirements of Raw Materials for the Japanese Light
Metals Industry
Aluminous ores. Bauxite, the ore universally most favored for
aluminum production, apparently does not occur in Japan Proper. Of the
other Far Eastern areas under Japanese control before l941, only the
Palao, Ponape and Yap Islands appear to have commercially exploitable
bauxite deposits, reported to aggregate 10,000,000 metric tons of high
grade material. Bauxite mining in these islands began in l938; maximm
prewar production was reached in 1940 when 43,000 metric tons were mined
and shipped to Japan. Since four tons of high-grade bauxite on an
average are required to yield one ton of aluminum, the l940 output was
sufficient to produce only 10,750 metric tons of metal, less than one-
third of the estimated Japanese aluminum production for that year.
It was, therefore, necessary for the Japanese, before the war, to
import large quantities of bauxite from non-Japanese controlled areas or
to make use of such aluminous raw materials as were available in localities..
held by the Japanese. The original endeavor, when the Japanese aluminum

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
-10 -
industry first began, was to use clays, shales and alunite from Manchuria,
Korea and North China. These attempts were not markedly successful and
most of the pioneer companies turned to imported bauxite befere 194l.
As shown in Appendix 7 of Part III, the Japanese imported much
more bauxite after 1937 than required for their current production of
aluminum. It is obvious from the enormous size of the bauxite stockpile
created that the Japanese had not at that time solved the problem of
producing aluminum from domestic raw materials and were actively creating
a large bauxite reserve for future use.
The 642,597 tons of bauxite presumably held in Japan at the end
of 1940 (see Appendix 7) were sufficient to make about 160,000 tons of
aluminum metal. No data are available on imports of bauxite during l941,
but it was reported that shipments from the Netherlands East Indies stopped
entirely in August of that year. This loss was a severe blow to the
Japanese for the NEI had furnished more than 60 percent of Japanese im-
ports of bauxite from 1935 through 1940 and supplied nearly 75 percent
of the large imports in 1940.
Obviously, Japanese prospects for bauxite imports improved very
considerably with Japanese occupation of t he Netherlands East Indies and
Malaya and large shipments were undoubtedly made from these areas until
Allied interference virtually cut them off.
Because Japanese aluminum requirements increased enormously after
1940, it was necessary for the Japanese to draw heavily on their large
stockpile of bauxite. It is believed that the stockpile has by now
been exhausted, and that no supplies of bauxite exist in Japan.
zh 0 p1a 

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
This belief is reinforced by the greatly renewed Japanese in-
terest in production of alumina from the shales, clays and alunite avail-
able in Korea, Manchuria and North China. These materials are not suit-
able for use in standard Bayer plants designed to produce alumina from
bauxite. The Japanese therefore made major adjustments in the equipment
of existing alumina plants and in some cement plants, in the hope of pro-
1
ducing the required alumina from such shales, clays and alunite. In the
course of this program, a considerable increase in alumina capacity was
apparently effected, beyond the needs of the aluminum plants under Japanese
control, but when bauxite became unavailable the unconverted Bayer plants
could no longer be operated. However, the total installed capacity must
be considered in evaluating overall Japanese potential for alumina pro-
duction, and is therefore included in Appendix 1 and in the summary
table on page 6.
Recent evidence strongly indicates that the Japanese attempts to
produce their wartime alumina requirements from clays, shales and alunite
were on the whole not successful. The conversion program referred to
above is believed to have been completed in June 1944, yet, according to
2/
a Japanese source, aluminum production fell from 140,O00 metric tons in
1943, the peak year, to only 6,500 metric tons in the first quarter of
1945. This drastic decrease cannot be accounted for by bomb damage,
electric power shortage or any other major factor except the inability of
the Japanese to produce the necessary alumina.
However, workers in the Tennessee Valley Authority have reported
favorable technological results from pilot plant studies on production of
Appendix 9 for description of various processes used for production of
alumina.
2 See p. 8 and Appendix 5.
re sa pia

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
-12 -
alumina from Tennessee clays by the lime sinter-soda leach process, believed
to be the method most widely used by the Japanese. It must therefore be
assumed that future work by the Japanese could solve the difficulties
encountered in their attempts to use clays, shales and alunite as a
source cf alumina, and the Japanese alumina potential must be evaluated
accordingly.
Indications are that the Japanese attempted to use aluminous raw
materials from Manchuria, Korea and North China to replace the unavail-
able bauxite. Tney also reported finding such materials in Iwate pre-
fecture, Honshu and on Hokkaido. Analyses reported in Appendix 8 of
Part III show a striking similarity in chemical composition of the clays
successfully used in the TVa studies and of Japanese deposits of ceramic
clays. It is, therefore, possible that Japanese aluminum production in
the postwar period cannot be effectively controlled by limiting imports
of bauxite.
Accessory raw materials used in the aluminum industry. As shown
in Appendix 9 of Part III, the alumina production methods most commonly
used by the Japanese require either soda ash or caustic soda, which can
be made from soda ash. Consumption is small, however — O.O6l ton of
caustic soda (equivalent to 0.088 metric tons of soda ash) per ton of
10. 05 p14 bu

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
alumina by the Bayer process, and O.O42 ton of soda ash per ton of alu-
mina by the lime sinter-soda leach process. The total soda requirement,
calculated as soda ash, for the estimated 19l4 Japanese production of
alumina probably does not exceed 35,000 metric tons.
In 1938 total Japanese production of soda ash was 886,721 metric
tons. Even though much of the salt required for soda ash production is
imported into Japan, soda ash requirements would not be a limiting factor
in determining Japanese alumina production.
The quantity of limestone required in the lime sinter-soda leach
process is large and the quality requirements are rigorous but neither
factor would limit or control alumina production. The same is true of
accessory materials required in the other alumina processes.
Aluminum metal is universally made by electrolysis of alumina dis-
solved in molten cryolite. High grade carbon is required for the anodes,
about O.6 to 0.7 ton being consumed per ton of me tal produced. Consumption
of cryolite and other fluoride salts is about O.l ton per ton of aluminum.
Before the war, Japan imported pitch coke for electrodes and also im-
ported cryolite. Domestic sources of electrode materials had to be used
during the war and cryolite was made from fluorspar mined in the Far East.
Fluorspar has a variety of uses and its control would be difficult to
enforce.
Large amounts cf electric power are required in the electrolytic
production of aluminum, consumption being about 22,000 kwh. per metric
ton of metal. A plant producing 20,000 metric tons of aluminum annually
would thus require 440,000,000 kwh. of electric power. It would thus
be difficult to conceal operation of a sizeable aluminum plant if electric
power were closely allocated or its generation controlled.
16 058 p15 bu

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.97)
-14 -
Basic rar materials fer manesins prodnction. Because magnesium
can be produced from sea water, its provision in adequate quantities
offers no difficulty in Japan. Matural brines or the bitterne left
from production of solar salt are alternate sources. Dolomite is
widely distributed and is the raw material of choice in the Pidgeon
process. It is thus evident that Japan will not lack a ready source
of magnesium.1
Accessory rex materials for mamesiun production. According to
the process used, a variety of accessory raw materials may be required
for magnesium production (see Appendix 9). Because overall magnesium
requirements in either a peacetime or war economy are relatively small,
the problem of supplying the needed accessory materials plays no con-
trolling role in production of the metal.
As in electrolytic production of aluminum, power requirements are
large for electrolytic production of magnesium. Howover, unlike the
alumimum industry, alternative methods are available for magnesium
production. Control over electric power distribution or generation is
thas not an effective means of curbing magnesium production.
4. Potential Role of Scrap Metal in Supplying Future Japanese Require
monts for the Licht Metals
Besides the alumimum and magnesium produced as virgin metal directly
from the raw materials, scrap or secondary metal may also play an
important part in satisfying a country's requirements for the light
metals. Secondary metal is of two kinds: (1) the scrap generated by
users of the virgin metal or its alloys in fabricating finished goods.
and (2) the
1/ Nearby Korea has virtually inexhaustible supplies of high grade
marnesite, and excellent raw material for magnesium production.
20.053 p16 bu

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
-15 -
serap obtained by salvaging discarded metal objects. Sorap of the first
type mmy be re-used directly by the producing industry, usually being
first cast into ingot; scrap of the second type reeppears on the market
as secondary ingot.
Well-segregated scrap generated by the fabricating industries may
be put to all the uses for which the original ingot was smited, inoluding
the making of high-strength alloy products. However, insofar as the
Japanese are forced to meet their postwar needs for alumimum from salvage
scrap. they will not be able to make airplane wings and certain other
critical war items requiring high-strength alloys.
As shown in Appendix 5 of Part III, Japanese imports of aluminum
in the prewar years included a substantial proportion of scrap metal.
ranging from less than 1 percent of the total in 1927 to a maximam of
55 percent in 1933. The provisions in the tariff act of 1936, by which
the duty on both primary and secondary aluminum was set at 295 yem per
metric ton, was possibly intended to discourage imports of sorap metal.
Sorap imports were relatively low in 1936 but in 1938 and 1939, they im
creased in almost the same proportions as did imports of virgin metal.
It is not possible to estimate what amount of light metal sorap
will be found available in Japan. The total will include not only stocks
of recirculating scrap at plants and such salvage scrap as mmy be strewn
over Japan, but also metal in the "pipeline" from semi-fabrication to
the finished stage. To this must be added whatever amount of metal
still exists in primary ingot form.
10 058 p17. 

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
-16 -
It is essential that there be made a complete inventory of all
primary and secondary aluminum and magnesium alloys available in Japan
before a decision is made as to the amount of new metal which the Japanese
may be allowed to import. Such stocks should be kept under Allied control
and released at the rate necessary to meet Japanese civilian needs. It
is possible that requirements for some time to come can be met from stocks
found in Japan.
5. Labor Requiroments in the Light Metals Industry
Specifio aata on employment in the basic plants of the Japanese
light metals industry are not available, but comparable data for the
United States indicate the rather modest labor requirements (see Appendix
10). Even assuming considerably lower output per worker in Japanese
plants, it is not likely that more than 15,000 workers were employed in
Japan during the war in production of alumina and of aluminum and mag-
nesium ingot.
It seems probable that the entire Japanese light metals industry,
including production of primary and secondary metals and their fabrica-
tion, even at the wartime rate of production and processing, employed no
more than l00,000 workers. The displacement of workers is, therefore,
not a major consideration in determining the future of the Japanese light
metals industry.
6. Future Sources of Light Metal Products for Other Far Eastern Areas
As shown in Appendices 5 and 6, Japan's exports of primary aluminum
and magnesium and scrap aluminum were insignificant before the war. Total
aluminum exports in this category exceeded 1,000 metrie tons only in 1935.
Maximum magnesium exports were 237 metric tons in 1936.
16 05* p18 bw

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
-17 -
Of more significance were exports of fabricated aluminum produots,
chiefly aluminum utensils to China and the Pacific Islands and sheet
aluminum to British India. (See Appendix 11). Maximm axports (1935)
were valued at 3,314,600 yen.
After that time the Japanese built aluminum plants in Formosa,
Manchuria, Korea and probably North China with a total capacity estimated
at 137,500 metric tons. (See page 6). Although the weight of metal in
the aluminum product exports is not knowm, it could not have been more
than 1,O00 tons as a maximum and could obviously be supplied by Far
Eastern plants outside of Japan Proper.
7. Aluminum and Magnesium as Substitutes for Other Metals
In many of the uses to which the light metals have been put, they
have been chosen because no other commercial metals are as well suited
in physical or chemical properties. This is notably true of their chief
wartime uses -- aircraft and incendiaries. Aluminum alloys also have won
a place for themselves in the civilian economy which assures a continuing
demand for the metal. Magnesium alloys in the prewar years had less com-
mercial acceptance for civilian uses.
The degree to which the light metals will be used in the postwar
years in a given country is complicated by a number of factors. Assuming
the free availability of iron and steel, copper and other important motals,
the amounts of light metals used will depend on their availability, on
requirements for the customary uses and on relative costs, consumer accept-
ance and on technological research with regard to new uses. Recent esti-
mates of possible consumption in the United States after the war differed

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
widely, according to the importance attacned to these various factors.
However, it is commonly agreed that the light metal alloys can be sub-
stituted for many customary uses of iron and steel in transport equipment,
electrical appliances, industrial equipment, and in building construction.
Aluminum can also be substituted for copper,as in electric cable.
Assuming that iron and steel, copper and otner strategic metals
are to be controlled in Japan in the postwar period, it is obvious that
the Japanese will neglect no opportunity to substitute other materials
for the controlled metals. Ready availability of the light metals would,
therefore, to some degree, vitiate attempted control over the heavier
metals. Control over the light metals is thus an integral part of the
general control over Japanese industrial capacity.
B. Proposed Controls Over the Japanese Light Metals Industry
The necessity of sharply reducing the amounts of light metals
available to the Japanese has been clearly set forth in the preceding
section. Controls intended to achieve this end must be simple to insti-
tute and supervise and difficult to evade. With these factors in mind,
the following controls are proposed:
1. Removal or destruction of all Japanese
plants producing alumina, aluminum or
magnesium.
This is believed a necessary step in the industrial disarmament
of Japan, and should not be difficult to accomplish during the occupation
period. To delay or discourage reconstruction of such plants, facilities
1
Senate Committee on Small Business - Hearings on Light Metals,
February-March, 1945.
10 052 P2G. bu

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
-19 -
for generating direct current or for converting alternating into direct
current should be considered as part of the metal producing plant whion
they serve.
Presumably, periodic inspection will be required to assure that
new capacity is not erected for producing aluminum and magnesium. Sudh
new construction can be rendered difficult if the Japanese are deniea
access to imported equipment and are not permitted the opportunity of
making it themselves. If the generation and distribution of electric
power are controlled, electrolytic production of aluminum and magnesium
should not be difficult to detect.
However, it must be pointed out that one of the commercial methods
for magnesium producticn, the Pidgeon process, is eminently suited to
operation in small units and does not directly require large amounts of
electricity. Such plants might be easily concealed.
For several reasons, complete elimination of light metals plants
in Japan is believed preferable to permitting a limited capacity to
remain. If the Japanese were allowed to produce their legitimate require-
ments of aluminum and magnesium, they would continue to have a body of
trained technicians who could serve as a nucleus for rebuilding the in-
dustry. Research on new or better production methods would be encouraged
by the existence of such an industry.
It may be argued tnat elimination of light metals production in
Japan may not serve to control future aggression. However, the light
metals are essential components of war material as we now know it, and it
cannot be assumed that they will not be of vital usefulness in the future
20 082 p28 b

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
-20 -
2. Removal or destruction of all
Japanese light metals processing
equipment not required to meet
approved requirements of fabri-
cated products.
It is obvious that reduction of Japanese capacity for processing
the light metals and their alloys will serve as an additional check on
the resurgence of the Japanese light metals industry.
In practice, a comfortable surplus of processing capacity must be
allowed because of different choices which the Japanese may be allowed
to make as to utilization of their light metals supplies. However, it
will be advisable to eliminate certain types of equipment required for
producing or processing high-strength alloys, for producing large size
die-castings or large dimension sheet and other facilities essentially
only of military value.
The equipment allowed to remain should be of types not directly
usable in the aircraft industry and for other armament purposes. Equip-
ment which has been used essentially to serve such industries should be
marked for elimination.
The resources left in Japan for rebuilding heavy equipment of the
type required in fabricating light metal alloys and the access to im-
ported equipment will determine the ease with which the industry can be
rebuilt.
3. Controls over imports of
alumina and of primary and
secondary aluminum, magnesium
and their alloys, and over selected
raw materials for their pro-
duction.
16 052 pa8 bu

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
-21 -
Control over Japanese imports of the light metals and of the
raw materials required for their production is a necessary adjunct
to the elimination of light metals mamufacture in Japan.
It seems possible that sufficient supplies of light metals will
be available in Japan at the end of the war to meet legitimate re-
quirements for sometime in lieu of imports. Such stocks, in what-
ever form found or wherever located, should be kept under control
and released at the same rate at which imports would be allowed.
Scrap metal should be taken into consideration in determining
the amount of metal to be made available. Some virgin metal will.
however, be required to "sweeten" the secondary metal for certain
usos.
As an additional check on light metals production, importation
of bauxite should not be permitted. Becanse of the varied uses of
dolomite and magnesite, aside from production of magnesium metal.
it does not seem practicable to control their import.
Import controls should extend to semi-fabricated products and
importation should be forbidden of any type whose production in
Japan is not allowed. It should not, however, be necessary to control
importation of finished light metal products for civilian use.
1e osa psa nobu

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
-22 -
PART III - APPENDICES
1. Japanese Alumina Plants
2. Japanese Aluminum Plants
3. Japanese Magnesiim Plants
4. Japanese Light Metals Fabricating Plants
5. Japanese Production, Exports and Imports of Aluminum
6. Japanese Production, Exports and Imports of Magnesium
7. Japanese Imports, Requirements and Stockpiles of Bauxite
8. Chemical Composition of Some Naturally Occurring Aluminous Raw
Materials
9. Production Processes Used in the Japanese Light Metals Industries
10. Employment and Production Rates in the Light Metals Industry of the
United States, 1944
11. Japanese Exports of Aluminim Manufactures
.1e 058 masmebe

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX 1
Alumina Plants in Japan Proper
Aluminum
Production
Estimated
Type of
at
Capacity
Company
Plant Location
Plant
Same Plant
m.t./yr.
HONSHU
Asada (Shikawa) Kagaku K.K.
Hyogo-ken, Shikawa-shi
A
No
3,000
Asano Cement K.K.
Hiroshima-ken, Mihara-shi, Itozaki-
B
No
64,000
machi #5310
Kokusan Keikinzoku K.K.
Iwate-ken, Kurosawajiri-shi
A
No
20,000
Nichiman Aruminiumu K.K.
Toyama-ken, Higashi Iwase-machi
A
Yes
20,000
Nippon Keikinzoku K.K.
Shizuoka-ken, Shimizu-shi
C
No
100,000
Nippon Soda K.K.
Toyama-ken, Takaoka-shi
A or C
Yes
14,000
23
Nitto Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Aomori-ken, Hachinohe-shi
A or C
Yes
4,000
Onoda Cement K.K.
Yamaguchi-ken, Asa-gun, Onoda-machi
B
No
100,000
Showa Denko Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Kanagawa-ken, Yokohama-shi, Shin
A
No
16,000
Koyasu
n
11
11
1
Nagano-ken, Shinano Omachi-shi
A or C
Yes
8,000
KYUSHU
Nippon Aruminiumu K.K.
Fukuoka-ken, Kurosaki-mura
C
No
24,000
Toyo Aruminiumu K.K.
Fukuoka-ken, liiike-shi
C
No
36,000
SHIKOKU
Sumitomo Aruminiumu K.K.
Ehime-ken, Niihama-shi
A
Yes
20,000
TOTAL
429,000
16
Type of Plant:
053 pzz bu
A. Former Bayer plant converted to use non-bauxitic raw materials.
B. Former cement plant converted to produce alumina from non-bauxitic raw materials.
C. Unchanged Bayer plant.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX 2
Aluminum Plants in Japan Proper
Alumina
Production
Estimated
at
Capacity
Company
Location
Same Plant
m.t./yr.
HONSHU
Kokusan Keikinzoku K.K.
Toyama-ken, Kaminii Kawa-gun, Sasazu-mura
NO
6,000
Nasu Aruminiumu K.K.
Tokyo, Honjo-ku, Kamezawa-cho, 1-chome 39
No
1,500
Nichiman Aruminiumu (Showa Denkb)
Toyama-ken, Higashé Iwase-machi
Yes
8,000
n
n
n
n
Fukushima-ken, Koriyama-shi
NO
10,000
Nippon Keikinzoku
Shizuoka-ken, Kambara-shi
No
40,000
n
n
Niigata-ken, Nakakambara-gun, Toyano-mura
No
30,000
2
Nippon Soda K.K.
Toyama-ken, Takaoka-shi, Mukono-machi
Yes
8,000
Nitto Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Aomori-ken, Hachinohe-shi, Konakano-cho
Yes
4,000
Osaka Yogyo Cement K.K.
Osaka
No
2,000
Showa Denkb Kakagu Kogyo K.K.
Nagano-ken, Sninano Omachi-shi
Yes
12,000
n
n
n
n
n
Fukushima-ken, Yama-gun, Kitakata-machi
No
?
Toyo Aruminiumil (Ibigawa Denko)
Gifu-ken, Ogaki-shi
No
6,000
SHIKOKU
Sumitomo Aruminiumu K.K.
Ehime-ken, Niinama-shi
Yes
20,000
147,500
Total

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX 3
Magnesium Plants in Japan Proper
Estimated
1
Raw
Capacity
Company
Plant Location
Process
Material
m.t./yr.
Asahi Denko Kogyo K.K.
Tokyo, Arakawa-ku, Ogu-cho 9-chome
Electrolysis
Magnesite
1,500
Kanto Denk Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Gumma-ken, Shibukawa-shi
Electrolysis
Magnesite
500
Nippon Magnesium K.K.
Tokyo, Itabashi-ku, Shimurachogo-cho
?
Magnesite
650
Nippon Magnesium K.K.
Toyama-ken, Kaminii Kawa-gun,
?
?
650
Osawano-machi, near Sasazu-mura
Nippon Soda K.K.
Toyama-ken, Higashi Iwase-machi
Electrolysis Sea water
600
Riken Kinzoku K.K.
=Nichiman Magnesium K.K.,
Yamaguchi-ken, Ube-shi
Electrolysis Sea water &
5,000
=Ube Chisso K.K.
magnesite
500
Shinetsu Kagaku K.K.
Niigata-ken, Naoetsu-shi, Kuroi
Electrolysis Sea water
25
Total
9,400

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.92)
-26-
APPENDIX 4
Lajor Japanese Aluminum Alloy
Sneet Rolling Mills
Company
Plant Location
Furukawa Electrical Industry Co.
Tochigi-ken, Kamitsuga-gun, Nikko-machi,
Kiyotaki
8
11
Hyogo-ken, Amagasaki-shi (2 plants?)
Kobe Steel Works
Yamaguchi-ken, Chofu
8
1
Kyushu Island, Moji
Nippon Aluminum orks
Osaka
Sumitomc Metal Industry Co.
Osake
n
11
Nagoya
1. 052 p30 

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
APPENDIX 5
Japanese Production, Imports and Exports of Aluminum
(metric tons)
2/
Production
Imports
Exports
Apparent Consumption
Ingot &
Slabs
Scrap
Total
Annual
Average
1926
None
7,431
116
7,547
7,547
1927
n
5,825
54
5,879
5,879
8,659
1928
n
9,167
170
9,337
17
9,320
1929
n
11,893
408
12,301
411
11,890
1930
n
10,965
743
11,708
696
11,012
1931
n
2,788
2,426
5,214
211
5,003
7,830
1932
4,810
3,846
8,641
336
8,305
1933
n
3,606
4,672
8,278
240
6,998
1934
664
5,342
5,604
10,946
348
11,262
1935
4,400
9,774
4,305
山,079
1,018
17,461
16,825
1936
7,000
9,011
1,695
10,706
872
16,834
1937
10,500
> 8,100
24,000
12,055
811
21,74
1938
17,100
20,000
<8,000
27,946
917
44,129
1939
23,000
20,000
<8,000
28,070
51,070
31,945
1940
35,000(est)1,900
<500
2,420
32,580
1941
70,000)
1942
110,000)
1943
140,000)
See explanation at bottom
194
106,000)
of next page regarding
1945
6,500)
these figures.
(lst quarter)
Some discrepancies in "Total" column are due to necessity of using data
from two or more sources.
2
Includes crude metal, primary shapes and scrap, but not manufactures.
1€ 052 p81 

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
- 28 -
APPENDIX 5 (Cont'd)
Sources of Data in Appendix 5
Data for years before 1941:
1. Aluminum Nenkan-Magnesium Soran (1939).
2. Official data of exporting countries.
3. Annual and Montily Returns of the Foreign Trade of Japan:
4. Japan-Lanchukuo Yearbook (1939).
5. The Industrial Chemist, 1941.
6. Japan Trade Studies - Special Industry Analysis No. 2 - Aluminum -
Jan. 1945.
7. Kogyo Nenkan (1938).
8. American Consular Report, "The Japanese Aluminum Industry", Osaka,
Japan, Sept. 30, 1939.
9. Kagaku Kogyo Nenkan (1938).
Production data for 194l and after:
Prince Higashi-Kuni in a report to the Japanese Diet (quoted in
Domei radio broadcast, Sept. 5, 1945) stated that Japanese aluminum pro-
duction rose from a pre-war figure of 70,000 tons (assumed to be for 1941)
to a maximum of 140,000 tons in 1943. According to the same source, alu-
minum output decreased after 1943 due to lack of bauxite, and only 6,500
tons were produced in the first quarter of 1945. Production for 1942 and
1944 has been estimated by extrapolation from the curve obtained by
plotting reported data for 1941, 1943 and 1945.
16 e5s paa bu

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
APPENDIX 6
Japanese Production, Imports and Exports of Magnesium
(metric tons)
Apparent
Year
Production
Imports
Exports
Consumption
1930
0
1931
2
8
10
1932
23
13
36
1933
104
山
118
1934
1山1
1
4
138
1935
271
0
74
197
1936
568
n.a.
237
331
1937
1,200
n.a.
12
1938
1,500
692 a/
Less than 1
1939
2,000
2
1940
4,000
2
a/
Export from U.S. only.
Sources: Kogyo Nenkan (1938) p. 528.
"Japanese-Puppet Economic Activities", Dec. 1944, published by
Kuomintang Economic Service, Chungking.
Mineral Industry during 1940, p. 389.
BFDC compilation.
10080

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
APPENDIX 7
Japanese Imports, Requirements and Stockpilos
of Bauxite
(metric tons)
a/
Imports
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Netherlands East Indies
50
8,774
31,358
120,078196,948262,453
Malaya
355
1,123
13,241
56,643
85,736
46,033
Greece
5,250
8,000
7,300
15,000
23,959
n.a.
British India
4,481
5,327
23,748
n.a.
..
n..
Kandated Islands
20,000
39,000
43,000
10,136
23,224
76,147
211,721 345,643 351,486
b/
Requirements
17,600
28,000
42,000
63,400 92,000 140,000
Apparent stockpile
34,147
177,468 431,111 642,597
at end of year
a/
Sources:
1. The Commodity Position of Malaysia-Bauxite-Prepared by
U. S. Tariff Commission for Foreign Economic Administration,
Feb. 1944.
2. Japanese Trade Studies. Special Industry Analysis No. 2 -
Aluminum, Prepared by U. S. Tariff Commission, Jan. 1945.
3. American Consular Report #65, "Tne Projected Reorganization of
Japan's Aluminum Industry", Donald W. Lamm, Tokyo, Dec. 1, 1941.
b/
Calculated on basis of aluminum production figures in Appendix 5 and
average requirement of 4 tons of bauxite for 1 ton of aluminum.
c/
Apparent deficit in 1935 and 1936 presumably made up by use of non-
bauxitio raw materials, or by unreported imports of bauxite. No
allowance for use of non-bauxitic raw materials nor for other uses
of bauxite made in calculating stockpiles for subsequent years.
10 052 p34 bu

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
APPENDIX 8
Chemical Composition of Some Naturally
Occurring Aluminous Raw Materials
(percent by weight)
Composition of Some Typical Bauxites
France
Guiana
United States
A12O3
57-60
56-61
56-59
SiO2
3-5
1-3
5-12
Fe203
20-25
Variable
Low
Ign. loss
11-13
29-31
27-30
231
Composition of Clays Used by Tennessee Valley Authority
a Studies on Extraction of Alumina from Clays by Lime-Sinter-Soda-Leach Process
Ross Clay 1
Ross Clay 2
Rengold Clay
A12O3
38.2
35.9
37.5
SiO2
43.8
42.2
44.9
Fe203
0.6
1.2
0.9
TiO2
2.7
2.6
2.9
0.3
2.8
0.3
CaO
0.3
0.1
Mg0
Ign. loss
14.2
15.3
13.5
1
Source: Hayward, An Outline of Metallurgical Practice, 2nd ed. (1940),
D. Van Nostrand Co.
Lime-Sinter odification of the Pedersen Process, by Copson,
Walthall & Hignett, War Metallurgy ommittee, Serial No. W-103,
Apr. 28, 1944.
Western Tennessee.
29 053 936 

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
APPEIDIX 8 (Cont'd)
Composition of Japanese Clays
(percent)
3
4
5
Roseki Clay
Kibushi Clay
Gairome Clay (washed)
A12O3
48.16
34.02
33.84
SiO2
43.30
48.02
52.20
F0203
0.26
1.93
1.81
Caō
0.26
0.54
0.43
MgO
0.01
0.17
0.03
K2O,Na2O
1.52
0.54
0.70
Ign. loss
8.02
15.35
11.63
FEA report,
Source: /FE-I2l, Japanese Possibilities of Making Aluminum from
Clay.
mercially for ceramic purposes.
3
From Okayama-ken, Wake-gun, Mitsuishi-mura.
4
From Aichi-ken, Higashi Kasugai-gun, Seto-mura.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
APPENDIX 3 (Cont'd)
Composition of Typical Clays from Manchuria,
Korea and Occupied China
Location
Type of Clay
A12O3
S1O2
Fe203
Ti02
Ign. Loss
Manchuria
Fuchow
Very hard
72.8Q
8.58
1.66
2.30
14.20
Hard
54.50
28.30
2.29
2.92
15.00
Soft
39.40
44.90
1.92
2.80
14.80
Kinchow
Very hard
62.90
20.66
2.62
2.05
14.31
Hard
40.40
42.50
1.68
1.65
14.60
Honkei
Very hard
72.12
3.74
9.24
1.84
13.96
Hard
54.61
15.34
14.65
1.34
13.92
Soft
38.28
43.30
3.85
1.50
14.64
Yentai
Very hard
60.70
14.50
10.80
2.00
13.40
Hard
48.80
35.70
15.10
1.80
14.80
Soft
40.47
4.01
0.93
1.78
13.95
Korea
Location unknowm
Kaolin
58.50 24.00
0.80
2.50
13.40
China
Kailan, North China Very hard
71.12
12.30
1.00
2.90
15.50
Hard
62.60
21.80
1.10
2.80
14.30
Soft
50.30
26.70
1.60
2.50
14.70
Poshan, Shantung
Very hard
70.20
11.00
1.43
2.80
14.50
Hard
54.80
17.68
10.59
2.30
14.53
Soft
40.80
41.05
1.09
2.71
14.11
16068 

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
-34-
APPENDIX 8 (Cont'd)
1
Analyses of Korean Alunites
Source
Seizan
Gyokubaizan 1
Gyokubaizan 2
Yozan
Kashatori
412O3
31.00
36.31
37.22
36.07
35.77
SiO2
16.35
2.96
1.38
1.17
5.4山
FeO & Fe2O3
0.55
0.52
CaO
0.44
Trace
0.27
Mgo
Trace
Trace
0.17
K2O
6.52
9.15
9.68
9.65
7.96
Na2C
1.19
0.78
1.05
2.09
1.08
803
32.31
36.82
38.02
38.47
37.17
H2O
12.54
12.87
13.29
12.15
12.43
Ign. loss
Source: Tyosen Kogyo, Sept. 1938.
16 05a p3s bu

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
APPENDIX 9
Production Processes Used in the Japanese
Light Metals Industries
ALUMINA
The production of aluminum takes place in two steps: (1) produc-
tion of highly purified alumina (aluminum oxide, Al2O3) from the bauxite
or other aluminous ore, followed by (2) electrolytic reduction of the
alumina to aluminum metal. These two stages are entirely independent
and are frequently carried out at widely separated plants.
In the electrolytic reduction step, impurities such as silica or
iron oxides present in the alumina will also be reduced and will contam-
inate the metal. It is consequently essential that alumina of high
quality be furnished to the reduction plants. The standard Bayer process
1
produces satisfactory alumina only from high grade bauxite which is low
in silica. Special methods have been proposed or developed for producing
alumina of acceptable grade from aluminous raw materialsl/ containing
larger amounts of silica (or other impurities). Certain of these pro-
cesses, believed to be of special interest to the Japanese, are here des-
2/
cribed, in addition to the Bayer process.
1. The Bayer process. The ground (and usually d ried) bauxite is
heated under pressure ith a caustic soda solution which converts the
See Appendix 8 for chemical composition of some typical aluminous raw
materials.
2/ For further details of tnese processes see:
FEA repart-121, Japanese Possibilities of Making Aluminum from Clay, June 1944.
FEA
,E0-165, An Analysis of Aluminum Industry Processes, Sept. 1943.
War Metallurgy Committee Research Report W-l03, The Extraction of
Alumina from Clays by the Lime-Sinter odification of the Pedersen
Process, prepared by TVA and issued by the National Academy of
Sciences, Apr. 28, 1944.
The Aluminum Industry: Vol. II, Aluminum and its Production, by
Edwards, Frary and Jeffries.
16 052 p89 

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
-36-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
aluminum oxide to soluble sodium aluminate. This solution is filtered
from the "red mud" containing the bulk of the impurities. The clarified
solution is somewhat diluted witn water, and aluminum hydroxide is pre-
cipitated by prolonged agitation with aluminum hydroxide from a previous
batch. The hydroxide is settled, filtered and calcined in a rotary kiln
to produce alumina.
Typical material requirements per metric ton of calcined alumina
produced by the Bayer process are:
Bauxi te
2 m.t.
Caustic soda make-up
55 kg.
Electric power
270 kwh.
Coal for drying and calcining 1.5 to 2.5 m.t.
2. Lime sinter-soda leach process. It is believed that this is
the non-Bayer process most widely used by the Japanese. Clay is sintered
with about twice its weight of high grade limestone to convert the alumina
to calcium aluminate and the silica to calcium silicate. The resulting
sinter falls to a powder on cooling and is then leached with soda ash
solution, yielding a solution of sodium aluminate. Aluminum hydroxide
is recovered from the solution by slow treatment with carbon dioxide gas
and is then further treated as in the Bayer method.
In addition to equipment found in standard Bayer plants, this pro-
cess requires rotary kilns such as are used in cement plants. It seems
quite certain that same excess kiln capacity in Japanese cement plants
has been converted to alumina production. The sinter obtained in this
10 05a p40. bu

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
-37-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont(d)
process can be stored and transported witnout deterioration and consoquently
the sinter and leach steps can be carried out at separate locations if
desired.
Raw material requirements,per metric ton of.alumina produced by
this process, are approximately as follows:
Clay (dry basis)
about 3.2 m.t., depending on camposition
Limestone
6.6 m.t.
Soda ash make-up
42 kg.
Fuel
70 million B.T.U.
3. Lime-soda sinter. The clay is sintered with both limestone
and soda ash in a.rotary kiln, converting the silica to calcium silicate
and the alumina to sodium aluminate. The sodium aluminate is leached
from the ground sinter by water and tne solution further treated as in the
lime sinter-soda leach process. The sinter produced by this method re-
quires grinding, deteriorates rapidly in moist air and is not suitable
for storage or shipment.
4. Pedersen process. The clay or shale is smelted with iron ore,
coke and limestone to produce a molten slag consisting principally of
calcium aluminate, and, as a by-product, high grade, low-sulfur pig iron.
The cooled and ground slag is leached with soda ash solution, and the
solution is further treated as in the lime sinter-soda leach process.
This process is believed to be used in a Japanese plant in Korea.
5. Ferrosilicon process (referred to by the Japanese as the
Uchino process). Clay or shale is mixed with coke, limestone and iron ore
and cnarged into an electric-arc furnace where ferrosilicon and calcium
10 052 p65 *

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
-38-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
aluminate are formed. The calcium aluminate is converted to sodium
aluminate by leacning with soda ash solution.
In the Suzuki modification of this process, the cnarge consists
of aluminous shale, coke, and scrap or pig iron. On neating in an electric
furnace, ferrosilicon and alumina are formed. The ferrosilicon is sepa-
rated magnetically and the alumina freed from the remaining iron by
treatment with chlorine. In both of these modifications, power costs are
high and a market must be available for the ferrosilicon formed. Equip-
ment of special design is also required. One of tnese processes is ap-
parently in use at the Fushun, Manchuria alumina plant.
6. Alunite processes. Several processes proposed or used by the
Japanese are based on alunite, a naturally occurring potassium alum (see
Appendix 8). It is probable that these processes have been abandoned
in favor of those based on clay or shale, partly because of the lack of
uniformity and poor quality of much of the available alunite. In the
processes based on alunite, an attempt is always made to recover the potas-
sium in a form usable as a potash fertilizer.
In the Tanaka process (also called the Showa sodium process),
crushed and dried alunite is suspended in water and treated witn ammonia.
Potassium sulfate and ammonium sulfate are recovered from the solution
for fertilizer use. Alumina and silica constitute the solid residue
from which the alumina is recovered by treatment with sodium hydroxide
olution, followed by precipitation.
160548

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
- 39 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
In the Okasawa or Showa potassium process, the alunite suspension
is treated with potassium hydroxide solution yielding a solution con-
taining potassiun sulfate and potassium aluminate from which both potas-
sium sulfate and alumina are separated.
In the Sumitomo process, the crushed and dried alunite is dis-
solved in sulfuric acid, and aluminum hydroxide is then precipitated with
ammonia and separated. The clarified solution yields potassium and am-
monium sulfates.
The Asada process is also a sulfuric acid procedure, yielding
aluminum sulfate which is decomposed in a muffle furnace to alumina and
sulfur trioxide.
The acid processes require special equipment for handling the cor-
rosive solutions. They are not adaptable to existing equipment in Bayer
plants.
ALUHINUM
Regardless of the aluminum ore used or the procedure followed in
obtaining alumina from it, all aluminum metal today is produced by passing
an electric current through molten cryolite (sodium aluminum fluoride,
Na3AlF6) in which alumina is dissolved. The alumina is decomposed into
aluminum metal and oxygen. The reaction takes place in a carbon-lined
steel cell which acts as the cathode. olten aluminum collects at the
bottom of the cell and is tapoed off periodically and poured into ingot
molds.
18 082 

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
-40-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
Oxygen collects at the carbon anodes and, because of the high
temperatures required in the process, combines with the carbon, forming
carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. About 0.6 to 0.7 ton of carbon is
consumed per ton of aluminum metal produced:
The cell may be operated with a number of pre-baked electrodes
or with a single Soderberg electrode in which a continuously fed paste
consisting of carbon and suitable binder is fed into the electrode tube
and baked by the heat of the bath. Most Japanese plants are designed for
Soderberg electrodes.
If pre-baked electrodes are used, they may be purchased from a
company specializing in this work or they may be formed and baked at the
aluminum plant. If Soderberg electrodes are used, the paste is always
mixed at the aluminum plant. Raw materials in both cases are pitch coke,
petroleum coke or other source of high grade carbon reasonably free from
mineral impurities, and binder.
Power requirements are high in production of aluminum, being around
10 kwh. per pound of aluminum, or about 22,o00 kwh. per metric ton. As
in all electrolytic processes, direct current is necessary, and aluminum
plants thus usually require equipment to convert the alternating to
direct current.
Consumption of cryolite is about O.1 lb. per pound of metal pro-
duced. Native cryolite is found in commercial quantities only in one
locality, Ivigtut, Greenland. However, synthetic cryolite may be made
from alumina and suitable fluoride salts and this is frequently done at
alumina plants
1€ 008 p44 b

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
-41-
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'a)
MAGHESIUN
Several independent processes for magnesium production are in
commercial use and all are known to or in use by the Japanese. These
processes are: (1) electrolytic decomposition of fused magnesium
chloride derived from brines, sea water, dolomite or magnesite; (2)
reduction of calcined dolomite with ferrosilicon in a heated retort
(Pidgeon process): and (3) reduction of magnesium oxide (obtained
from brines or magnesite) with coke, followed by rapid cooling of the
magnesium powéer produced in a stream of hydrogen or natural gas
(Hansgirg or Radenthein process).
1. The electrolytic process. This is the oldest of the com
mercial processes and is the most widely used method. As in the
electrolytic production of aluminum, the operation takes place in
two steps - preparation of the cell feed, followed by electrolytic
decomposition. These two steps are usually carried out at one plant.
Basis of the cell feed is properly dried magnesium chloride to
which sodium chloride and calcium chloride may be added as needed.
The magnesium chloride may be prepared by any of the following methods:
a. From brines and bitterns, by evaporation, careful separation
of the magnesium chloride from sodium chloride and other salts, and
drying.
b. From sea water by first adding lime to precipitate magnesium
hydroxide; this is dissolved in hydrochloric acid to yield magnesium
chloride, which is evaporated and dried.
c. From calcined dolomite by a wet process involving conversion
of the lime to calcium carbonate and the magnesia to magnesium chloride.
The calcined dolomite, suspended in water, is first treated with
ammonium chloride, yielding calcium
10 06 5 b

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
-42 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
chloride and magnesium hydroxide and liberating ammonia. Carbon diaxide
is then passed into the mixture, precipitating calcium carbonate. The
resulting solution of magnesium chloride is evaporated and dried.
d. From any suitable source of magnesia (e.g., magnesite) by a
dry process involving chlorination of heated briquettes of calcined mag-
nesia and coke.
Electrolysis of fused magnesium chloride to yield magnesium metal
is carried out on the same basic principles as in the electrolytic pro-
duction of aluminum. Closed cells are used because chlorine is given off
at the anodes. The chlorine is recovered and is available for reuse if
needed in the process or is sold as by-product. The metal floats on the
cell bath instead of sinking to the bottom. The anodes used are of the
same composition as in t he aluminum industry, but consumption is much
smaller, about O.l ton per ton of metal produced.
2. The ferrosilicon (Pidgeon) process. In this basically simple
process, calcined and ground dolomite is mixed and briquetted with ground
ferrosilicon and neated under strong vacum in a simple steel tube retort
in a gas or oil-fired furnace. Metallic magnesium condenses in the cool
end of the retort and is removed after a heating period of about ten
hours, ready for remelting and casting.
At present prices of ferrosilicon in the United States, the Pidgeon
process is apparently unable to compete on a cost basis with the most ef-
ficient electrolytic plants. However, the method has distinct advantages
for emergency production where costs are of secondary interest. Pidgeon
16068.46

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
-43 -
APPENDIX 9 (Cont'd)
process plants can be quickly constructed, relatively small scattered
units are feasible, and the plants can be readily stopped, kept in stand-
by condition and restarted.
3. The carbothermic (Hansgirg or Radenthein) process. As in the
Pidgeon process, magnesium oxide is reduced to metallic magnesium by a
furnace process.
Relatively pure magnesium oxide prepared by calcining magnesite
or by treatment of brines, is ground and briquetted with ground coke, with
or without a binder. The dried briquettes are charged into an electric
furnace operated at a temperature of around 2oo0℃ where the magnesium
oxide and coke react to produce magnesium vapor and carbon monoxide gas.
The reaction products must be cooled very rapidly to prevent reversal of
the reaction; this is accomplished by injecting a stream of inert gas
(hydrogen or natural gas) into the electric furnace. The magnesium con-
denses as a fine powder (somewhat contaminated with carbon) which must
be sprayed with oil, briquetted and dried. The briquettes are then
heated at about l0o0℃ in a retort under vacuum. The magnesium is vaporized
in the hot section of the retort and crystallizes in the chilled top, from
which it is periodically removed and melted for casting into molds.
No data are available for comparing plant investment or metal
production costs with the other processes described. Close technological
control is necessary because of the operational hazards involved.
10. 07.u

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
-44-
APPENDIX 10
Employment and Production Rate in U.S Light Metals Industry
Emplovment 1/
January 1944
December 1944
Alumimum
Bauxite mining, domestic
2,500
2,200
Alumina plants
7,000
4,800
Reduction works
15,000
9,400
Secondary smelters
3,000
2,700
Foundries
70,000
49,500
Sheet and foil mills
20,000
16,300
Forge shops
15,000
10,000
Other plants
17,000
12.000
Total aluminum
149,500
106,900
Magnesium
Ingot plants
18,000
5,100
Foundries
29,000
22,200
Other plants
2.000
1.400
Total magnesium
49,000
28,700
Total light metals
198,500
135,600
Production Rates
January 1944
December 1944
Total pro-
Tons per
Total pro-
Tons per
duction,
worker
duction,
worker
m.t。
per year
m.te
per year
Aluminum ingots, primary 2/
76,894
41.94
42,227
35.7.4
Aluminum ingots, secondary 2/
19,248
87.7
22,680
100.8
Magnesium ingots, primary 3
18,565
12.4
3,861
9.1
Employment data frop estimates by Aluminum and Magnesium Division,
War Production Board.
2
From data reported by War Production Board.
3
From data reported by Defense Plant Corporation.
4
Employment in both alumina and aluminum plants used in calculating
tons of primary aluminum per worker.
16 058 p48 bu

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
-45-
APPENDIX 11
Japanese Exports of Aluminum Manufactures
by Values
Year
Aluminum Ware
Aluminum Sheet
Total
1000 yen
1000 yen
1000 yen
1929
85.6
482.6
568.2
1930
706.6
744.3
1,450.9
1931
342.0
222.6
564.6
1932
410.5
478.5
889.0
1933
1,126.9
376.5
1,503.4
1934
1,930.7
534.2
2,464.9
1935
1,660.9
1,653.7
3,314.6
1936
1,727.5
1,301.1
3,028.6
Does not include exports to Korea and Formosa.
Source: The Mining Magazine, London, Vol. 59, #2, p. 83 (1938).
Le 5s 40 mb f1m1
