894.544 Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., Copyrights. ** Country (File 1332)
ID: 894.544-1332   Pages: 92   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.544-intellectual-and-industrial-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.90)
CHARGE SLIP
Bilo No.  894. 54
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
17DmcClune
8/3/39
fen15
O.S. COVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1--1433

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
-7-49
E.m.
ths
894.544/20

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVED
20
DEPARTMENT ABTAE942
DIVISION OF
994.544
February 12, 1942
Mr. Alger Piss suscestea  t r.  rre
J. Davis's letter or Februury 4 e routed to
TD (Dr. McClure) und FF for action und to
FE and Le for information. r. nornbeck
acknowledged the letter and referreu it to
894.544/21
TD (Dr. McClure). Dr. McClure telephoned FD
894.544/2
and sent the letter over for action. I
believe he regards the claim of copyright
infringement datin
1 from loa2 as rather
dubious.
The question asked by r. Davis is
whether machinery will be set up for con-
sideration of claims of ericun citizens
against Japan and provision made for payment
thereof from impounded Jupanese creits.
This question is not FD's and presumably
should seek a domicile in Le. However, F
vaguely recalls a formula to the general
effect that the First ar Powers Act of
1941 vested powers in the iresident in
relation to foreign assets in this country
which have not yet been exercised by the
President in the manner sugested by the
inquirer. FD, however, leaves the puper
to pursue its further routing.
PS/LMA
Diis on 
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of Stare
FD:FL:BMcB
21

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
D
Tokyo, November 28, 1941.
No. 5993
SUBJECT:
PIRATING OF AMERICAN BOOKS IN JAPAN.
OL STAIO
32
LESAL ADYISER
42    2
CATION
()
Division of
RECEIVED
FAR FASTERN AFFATS
5
A1942
C
RE30
0
AUG 291942
DEPARTMENT OF STAIE
Depetmrot or ate
12
Copy on FE
894.544/22
ARN
The Honorable
SEP2 1942
The Secretary of State
FILHL
894.
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose a copy of my note to
the Foreign Office, No. 1974, of November 25, 194l, in
regard to unauthorized publication in Japan of books
copyrighted by American citizens.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enelosure:
1/ Note as above.
PS/KN
854
WTT:ble
Im triplieate to the Department;
Cepy to Division of Commereial Árfairs.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 5993 of November 28, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The American Embassy at Tokyo to the Imperial
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 25, 1941.
No. 1974
Excellency:
I have the honor to bring to Your Excellency's
attention a situation wherein certain Japanese firms
are engaged in the practice of publishing unauthorized
editions of books copyrighted by American authors.
There is enclosed a list of certain books so illegally
published, with the names of the publishers in Japan.
It is understood that the sale of such books is attain-
ing considerable proportions despite an agreement among
reputable booksellers not to handle illegal editions,
and the prospect is that unless remedial action is taken,
the practice of publishing illegal editions will become
an increasingly serious problem. While, of course,
recourse through the courts is available to the
injured party, yet in view of the secret manner in
which the books are published and the dirficulty of
positive identification of the publisher, such action
1s
His Exoellency
Mr. Shigenori Togo,
His Imperial Japanese Majesty's
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
ete.
eto.
eto.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
is often found to be impracticable by the holder of
the copyright in the United States.
In submitting the foregoing information, I have
the honor to bespeak Your Excellency's good offices
in placing this matter before the appropriate author-
ities with a view to the taking of some remedial action.
It is believed that those authorities would not wish to
permit the extension of a practice calculated to defeat
the purposes of international copyright agreements to which
the Japanese Government is a party and a practice incom-
patible with the high standards of commercial morality
which the Japanese Government has repeatedly manifested
its desire to maintain.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your
Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
JOSEPH C. GREW
Enclosure

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure
Marks, Mechanical Engineers' Handbook
(Publication of McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York)
Ellis, Chemistry of Petroleum Derivatives, 2 Volumes
(Publication of Reinhola Publishing Corporation
330 West 42nd Street, New York)
PUBLISHER IN
The Gohin Seisakujo,
JAPAN:
No. 1, Nichome, Maki-cho,
Kyobashi-ku, Tokyo
Taggart, Handbook of Ore Dressing
(Publication of John Wiley and Sons, Incorporated
440 Fourth Avenue, New York)
Machinery's Handbook
(Publication of Industrial Press,
l40-l48 Lafayette Street, New York)
Perry, Chemical Engineers Handbook
(Publication of McGraw-Hill Book Company,
New York)
PUBLISHER IN
Kogyo Tosho Shuppan Sha,
JAPAN:
4, 5-chome, Kobiki-cho,
Kyobashi-ku, Tokyo.
Engloff, Physical Constants of Hydrocarbons
(Publication of Reinhold Publishing Corporation,
New York)
PUBLISHER IN
Doitsu Kogyo Boeki K.K.,
JAPAN:
177, Sekiguchi-machi,
Koishikawa-ku, Tokyo.
Flow Sheet of Process Industries
(Publioation of MoGraw-Hill Book Company,
New York)
PUBLISHER IN
Koken Sha
JAPAN:
60, Kami l-chome, Sonezaki,
Kita-ku, Osaka.
Handbook

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Handbook for the Operator, 194l Ed.
(By Brown and Sharpe Manufacturing Company,
58 Park Street, Providence, Rhode Island)
PUBLISHER IN
Kaigai Kogyo Johojo,
JAPAN:
177, Sekiguchi-machi,
Koishikawa-ku, Tokyo.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.74)
RTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Jrudgy Butur
Iqeecefrer he
tolay ton fom adacked
Emalide alans mat a
peromat ittn. Pleace
ndres cued n le perkery
R.A.
10/4/32

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
W.JEFFERSON DAVIS
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR
458 SOUTH SPRING STREET
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
tolet
October 28, 1932
ach+cpy
m
NOV 31932
tu94
THE HONORABLE,
Division of
DIVISION OF
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
NOV 3- 1932
Depertment of Sthate
Sir:
811.544
Novemhor 30 18
Referring to my recent call at your office regard-
ing the unauthorized publication in Japan, on April 13,
1932, of my book "Japan - the Air Menace of the Pacific",
I beg to call your attention to the following paragraph con-
tained in a letter just received from the Bureau of the
"International Union for the Protection of Literary and
Artistic Works", at Berne, Switzerland:
"A work published for the first time in
the United States of America cannot be pro-
tected by the stipulation or provision of the
Berne Convention because the United States
have not yet adhered to that diplomatic in-
strument. But in fact the merican works are
no less protected in the greater majority of
JEFFERSON/1
European countries by virtue of the bilateral
accords of reciprocity that exists between
the United States and those countries among
which we will mention Germany, France, Great
Britian, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland,
Poland, Austria, the Netherlands, Finland,
Roumania. In all these countries the works
published for the first time in America are
protected without any formality. It is the
same in Japan, the country in which you are
more particularly interested."
Will you kindly advise as to whether or not there
is any "bilateral accord of reciprocity" between Japan and
the United States of the nature referred to in this communi-
DEC
cation.
The facts regarding the unauthorized publication of
my book are as follows: The book was copyrighted in this
country in l928. Its unauthorized publication in Japan was
under date of April 13, 1932, and I am informed that 81 edi-
t1ons (81,000 copies) were sold out before July 8, 1932, and

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
-2-
October 28, 1932
that the publica ion is being sdvertisnd in full pare ads in
all of the leauing newspa ers in Japan. C nsequently there
has developed a great demand for tie volume, and it seems
unconscionable that the author - a morican citizen - should
be deprived of the royalties to which he is justly entitled.
The Japanese translation of the book is:
Title: Ninon Osomipeshi (Japan should Be Feared),
by Jefferson Davis, Colonel U. S. Arny.
Translated by Ozawa Kaku Suke, Conmander of the
Japanese Navy.
Published by Shin-Ko-Sha (New Light Co.) No. 19
First Street (Nishikicho Kandu-ku) Tokio.
Caligraphy by the late Admiral Sojiro Tochinai.
Introduction by Uoshitake Uyeda.
Translated March 1932.
Kikumatsu Ogawa, legal representative of Shin-Ko-
Sha, publisher, telephone Kanda 4339.
After translation this book was first published
April 15, 1932; 81st edition published
July 8, 1932.
No mention is made of the original copyright.
Can you ascertain through the American Consul Gen-
eral at Tokio what the facts are concerning publication of
this translation, and have our Consul General also advise
whether in his opinion I would have a remedy under the Jap-
anese law to prevent the unauthorized publication of my book
and to recover against the Japanese publishers for the un-
authorizedmproduction.
I have set out the facts in connection with this
matter at some length in order that you would have full in-
formation on which our American Consul General at Tokio can
act.
I would greatly appreciate it if you would take
this matter up at your earliest possible convenience, and
advise me upon receipt of your reply from Tokio.
Respectfully yours,
A
WJD:M

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.85)
In reply refer to
FE 894.544-Davis, W. Jefferson/1
8
.W. Jeffersen Devis,
4se Seuth Spring street.
Les Angeles, California.
sizt
The reseipt is mekmewledged of your letter of
os s, l9ss, referring to the wmeatherised publies-
ím m tramelatiom at Tokyo ef your book entitled
JAPAN HE AIR MENAGE OF THE PAGPIC A FOGSing
Amfermstion with regard to possible proteetion that
máght be afferded you by intermatienal agreement er by
Sapamese Im. Yon alse reqest that informatien be eb-
taimed with regard te the pablieation in tramslation of
 ththe G

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
Novembor 30 1982.
144
The Honorable
894.544-DAVIS,W.JEFFERSON/3
Joseph C. Grew.
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
There is onolosed a oopy of a letter of Ootober 28.
1932, addressed to the Department by Mr. W. Jefferson
Davis. referring to the unanthorized publioation in
translation at Tokyo of a book, of which he is the
author. Ontitled JAPAN - TH& AIR MENACE OF TH& PACIFIC
and reguesting information with regard to possible
proteotion by international agreement or by Japanese
law and with regard to the publication in translation
of the boek. A copy of the Department's reply is
enelosed, by which Mr. Davis has been informed that, in
the opinion of the Department, there existe no recourse
for him in law either for the prevention of unauthorized
publication or for recovery against the publishers. In
this conneetien it is desired that you forward to the
Department, if and when it may be available, such
information with regard to the publication of the book
. at Tekyo which may be of interest to Mr. Davis and which
is not indioated in his letter as already known to him.
Very truly youre.
For the Beeretary of State
W.R.
Enclosures:
From W. Jeffereon
Davis, October 28,
1952;
Reply therete.
n 209.
094.544-Davis, W. Jefferson/1
FE:LES:EJL
FE

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY
UNITED STATES
Tokyo, January 13, 1933.
No. 257.
Subject:
Book entitled "Japan, the Air Menace of the
Pacific".
F/G
PM RECO
File
Wrue
894.544-DAVIS,W.JEFFERSON/4
Aib
T
Livision of
FAR EASTERH AFFAIRS
AN 30 1933
Depertment of State
10
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.544-Dauis W.
Sir:
Jéfferson/3
I refer to the Department's instruction No. 144
of November 30, 1932, instructing the Embassy to forward
B
FILED
the publication of the Japanese translation of a book en-
1933
titled "Japan, the Air Menace of the Pacific" which may
be of interest to the author.
A representative of the Embassy called on the manager
the Shinkosha, the publishers of the above-mentioned
book, and was informed that about 45,000 copies had been
sold.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
sold. Advertisements in the local press claim that the
book has reached 130  ditions. Even if this claim is
true, the number of editions h:s little relation to the
total number of copies printed. The manager further
stated that no reviews of any significance had appeared
in the press or vernacular magazines.
There seems to be little information available in
regard to the Japanese edition of this book which has not
already been ascertained by the author.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
854.
WTT:r

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
W. JEFFERSON DAVIS
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR
458 SOUTH SPRING STREET
LOS ANGELES,CALIFOR
February 2, 1933
FEB 6 33
F/HS
854.544 Da
S
Division of
THE HONORABLE,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
a lbtter wes sent
The Secretary of State,
Fu. 20.g. Davio on
894.544 DAVIS
EB 7-1933
Wa shinrton,. C.
Febrinanry 6, 1935,
quring the reqrested
information
Sir:
820.
Under date of October 28, 1932, I
filed with you a protest concerning the unauthor-
ized publication by a Japanese publisher of my
book, "Japan - the Air Menace of the Pacific."
I was later informed that the Depart-
ment would take this matter up with the Consul
General at Tokio, but as yet I have had no ans-
wer from the Department covering the matters
contained in my letter of Oc: ober 23th.
Will you kindly advise whether anything
has been done by the Consul General at Tokio
concerning this matter.
Very truly yours,
ron an
FEB
WJD:M
FILED
9 1933
K

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
February 61955
In reply refer to
894.544-DAV1
Mr. W. Jefferson Davis,
458 South Spring Street,
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's letter of November
30, 1932, informing you that the Ambassador at Tokyo had
S
been directed to submit to the Department available informa-
tion with regerd to the publioation in translation at Tokyo
m
FFI
of Your book entitled JAPAN - THE AIR MENACE OF THE PACIFIC,
the Ambassedor has reported that a representative of the
Embassy called on the manager of the publishing company, the
Shinkosha, and was informed that about 45,000 copies of the
book had been sold. The Ambassador further reported that.
according to advertisements in the local press, the book had
reached 130 editions but that, even if this claim was true,
the number of editione had little relation to the total
mumber of copies printed.
A true copy
Very truly yours,
the signed 
For the Seoretary of State:
inal.
FEB6,1933
124
m.m.N.
Stanley K. Horrbeok,
FE:TES:CLS
FE
Chief,
2-6-33.
Division of Fer Eestern Affeirs.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.89)
8eptember 20 193z
W. Jeffereon Devis,
450 South Spring Street.
Los Angeles, California.
5
81x1
Befsrenee is maée to the Department's letters of
Fobnasy 8, 1953, and November 50, 1982, and to your
mesent eomwersetions with officers of the Legal Aaviser's
S
Offise and the Treaty Division of the Department, relat-
ing to your rights as an Amerioan author to copyright
JEFFER
proteetion in the matter of a translation whioh has been
pablisbed in Japan.
In this eonneetion you raise the question whethes
preteetien was aseorded to Amerieen sitisens wmder the
westy es Mevember 10, 190s, between the Umites ssstes
the Department and the Amerieen Legatem

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.86)
at tranatations. There weule spsar te de 
tmoße wpon which your ease oould properly be mmde a sub-
jeet of representatione on the part of this Governmont
to the Government of Japan.
Very truly yours.
For the Seoretary of State:
Jacob A. Metsger,
Leting Legal Ldviser.
A true cop
therigi
240
FE
由u
mu

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
am
TREATY DIVISION
September 15, 1933.
COPYRIGHT PROTEOTION OF TRANSLATIONS IN JAPAN.
1933
Division of
T -
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 15 1988
Dr. Hornbeck:
Depertment of Stake
F
Referring to our conversation of a few days ago on
G
the subject of the publication in Japan of a translation
894.544-DAVI
of a book by Mr. W. Jefferson Davis, Los Angeles, Calif-
ornia, without the consent of the author, I asked Mr. Keat-
1ng to look into the correspondence which took place at
the time of the treaty of 1905. He has found certain cor-
respondonce, particularly a despatch of May 27, 1905, from
the American Minister at Tokyo to the Department, which
S
seems to show conclusively that the Japanese considered
and refused protection for American copyright and that
this refusal was incorporated into the treaty. The docu-
ment in question is bound in Volume 80 of Correspondence on
Japan. The Minister was Lioyd C. Griscom, and the volume
in question covers the period from March 10 to August 31,
1905, and contains documents numbered 199 to 300.
8
Accordingly, I have prepared the attached letter to
SEP
Mr. Davis for signature by an Assistant Secretary. I
IIS
see
P
2
1933

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
-2-
see no reason why it should not be redrafted for your
signature and shall be very glad if you decide to do it
that way. You will recall that I definitely gave Mr. Davis
to understand that I would recommend to the Department send-
ing him some sort of an additional communioation as a result
of his conversations here.
I have talked with Mr. Flournoy in regard to the fore-
going matter and told him that I was drafting on the subjeot.
Treaty Division -
M: Polioy Memorandum No. 65l.
td:w

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
AM
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTHENT E 19.33
DEEROMENT
TREATY
Beptember 15, 1933.
A-M
THE UNITED STATES AND THE INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE
494.544
PROTEOTION OF LITERARY AND ARTISTIC WORKS.
F/
Reoent correspondence has brought to the attention of
G
Athe Department the case of the pirating by a Japanese pub-
894.544-BAVIS,
lisher of a book by an American author, Mr. W. Jefferson
Davis, entitled "Japan - The Air Menace of the Pacific".
This book, according to the author, has been translated
into Japanese and published by a Japanese concern. The
translation, according to the author, was made by a Com-
mander of the Japanese Navy, and other prominent Japanese
officials were concerned in the work.
There was nothing
to indicate that this concern was official. Apparently
.JEFFERSON/9
the persons in question acted solely in their private capa-
cities.
Mr. Davis understands that tens of thousands of copies
of the translation of his book have been sold in Japan and
that sales continue to take place. He believes that were
he to reoeive royalties on the basis of the contract which
he has with his American publishers his receipts would be from
one hundred to two hundred thousand dollars for the Japapese
PE
edition.
271933
FILED
The

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
-2-
The treaty of November 10, 1905, between the United
States and Japan, while reciprocally according certain
copyrigit protection, specifically does not apply to trans-
lations. Correspondence at the time between the Depart-
ment of State and the American Legation at Tokyo indicates
clearly that the Japanese, though pressed to include trans-
lations, definitely refused to do so and that the expression
in the treaty was the result of this definite refusal on
the part of the Japanese to accord proteotion in the matter
of translations (Volume 80, Correspondence on Japan - March 10
to August 31, 1905, Doo. Nos. 199 - 300).
Japan is a party to the international convention for
the proteotion of literary and artistic works, both as re-
vised at Berlin on November 13, 1908, and at Rome on June 2,
1928. Article 2 of the Rome revision specifically provides
that the proteotion included in the oonvention refers to
translations of books as well as to books in their.original
languages.
The United States is not a party to the international
convention for the protection of literary and artistio works.
Tor some years it has been the policy of the Department
of State for this Government to adhere to the convention
1n

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
-3-
in question.
The convention as revised at Berlin was
transmitted to the Senate and was recommended for adoption
by the Committee on Foreign Relations, contingent upon the
passage of certain legislation designed to make American
statute law conform to the convention.
The revision of
Rome has been prepared for transmission to the Senate,
and could be sent to the Senate at any time when that body
is in session. The delay in adherence on the part of the
United States results solely from the failure of the Congress
to enaot bills which have been constantly before it for sev-
eral years for the purpose, among other purposes, of bringing
about the desired harmony between statute and treaty.
This
legislation has been delayed not primarily because of any
commection with the treaty, but because certain important
American interests, for instance, the broadcasters, have
not been able to agree as to the content of the statute
relating to other matters.
Under well known provisions of American constitutional
law, a later treaty overrules a prior statute. It would,
accordingly, seem to be correct procedure for this Govern-
ment, by becoming a party to the treaty to overrule the
statute to the extent that the latter is not in conformity
with it.
While

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
-4
While it is admitted that there may be certain ques-
tions concerning the self execution of a treaty, it is
554月2
recommended, in view of the practical situation that con-
fronts this Government, that a vigorous effort be made at
the next session of Congress, to obtain the consent of the
Senate to adherence to the internaticnal convention for
the proteotion of literary and artistic works, regardless
of whether the Congress has enacted legislation such as
that which has been described.
The matter is too important to permit of longer delay,
while competing American interests squabble over their
desires with reference to other provisions of law.
Admitting that the matter of Mr. Davis is of no par-
ticular concern, that his book was inflammatory and ought
never to have been published at all, the question of similar
rights of other American authors still remains and is of
immense importance. The fact that one American author
has lost tens, possibly hundreds, of thousands of dollars
because of the lack of protection that he could have had in
Japan had the United States become a party to the interna-
tional convention is simply a pointed reminder of how im-
portant the question is.
Treaty Division -
M: Polioy Memorandum No. 653.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
CEBALADVSER
ach.
DEMENTFTAT
LE
W.JEFFERSON-DAVIS
Division of
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TD
458 SOUTH SPRING STREET
LOS ANGELES,CALIFORNIA
NOV 10 1933
Department of State
PERSONAL
DIISION O
InFATY DIVISION
The Honoratle,
The Secretary of State,
BROEVED
NOV 16 1933
Washington,..
My dear Judre Hull:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.544-DAV1
Daia
Under date o" October 28th, 1932, and ti ere-
after, I have had corresponlence with the State Depart-
ment regarding the publicetion, without my authorization,
of a Japanese translation of y book "Japan, the Air Men-
ace of the Pacific."
The Japanese are pushing publication of the Jap-
anese translation at this time, apparently in an attempt
to inflame Japanese sentiment against this country, and
are using my book in an effort to show that the United
States is not prepared to compete with Japan in the air.
This is just the reverse of what I o iginally intended,
and, of course, the book, parts of wnich originally ap-
peared in the Saturday Evening Post, the Hearst Sunday
papers, the North American Newspaper Alliance, and other
syndicates, has been for many years out of date. No
mention is made in the Japanese translation, by the Admiral
of the Japanese Navy in his fore-word, or by the translator,
that the book is many years out of date, but both have
endeavored to throw out to the Japanese people the idea
that unpreparedness in the air is the condition which pre-
vails in this country today.
I have been trying to find some way of protect-
ing my copyright to the book, of which some 200,o00 copies
were published and sold in Japan during 1932, and probably
by this time the sales have reached 500,000 copies or more.
On various trips East, I have discussed the situation with
officials in the Legal Advisor's office and in the Treaty
Division of the State Department, but am advised that there
would appear to be no basis upon which my case could prore
ly be made the subject of representations on the part or our
government to the government of Japan.
I am grateful, at this critical period in the hi
tory of our country, that we have at the head of our state
Department one who is so well equipped to protect theiprop
erty rights of our citizens abroad. I am utterly amazed

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
he Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
-2-
November 6, 1933
as the res ilt of my own iny atigation md stady, to ind
that we ap pop tly a  t reet trey w tet ives
our citize s e protet opmnlie tor of a trans-
lation in a or r e  t or's consent.
Article One of 1 e tr aty of l9o etwee. he United States
and Japan  ives citizens of toth cont ractin parties the
protection of copyripht for t eir works against illegal re-
production, and vt Article Two is construed as nullifying
Article One.
I enclose copy of my ope. letter to Mr. Chester
E. Rowell, itor of t sSm p cee hroniele, wiho, in
my juegment, is an exauple of t e subsidized and narrow-
minded propagandist space-writers who have little regard
for the welfare of our country and ply their trade in an
unAmerican way to say the least. Mr. Rowell, without
examining a copy of my book on Japanese aviation, the ma-
terial for which was carefully checked by officers in our
Military Intelligence Depertment of the rmy before publi-
cation, accepted Japanese comments in regard to the book
as true, and made the book the asis of an unwarranted at-
tack.I feel that my reply to Mr. Rovell may be of inter-
est to officials in our Shaic Depurtrent and the Military
Intelligence Division of the Army.
I was much inlerested recently to read an article
in Liberty Ma azine, "Cler Decns 'or .merican Diplomacy",
laudatory of your efforts and those of tle Pr sident to
create, during this administration, & permanently efficient
institution for the protection of our inter sts abroad.
I hope, in view of our close personal friendship,
you will realize that I am actuated not merely by the fact
that in the unauthorized theft by the Japan ese of my book,
which is now a best seller in Japan, I have lost materially,
but moreover, from a first-hand knowledge of actual aviation
conditions in Japan, I am moved to file this protest with
you because of my larger interest in our national welfare.
Japan's action in the present instance is only one of the
many indications that Japan is seriously preparing for war
against this country.
With kind personal regards, I am
Very sincerely yours,
WJD:M

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Los Angeles, California,
January 6, 1933
MR. CHESTER E. ROWELL,
San Francisco Chronicle,
San Francisco, California.
Dear Sir:
An article written by you in the San rancisco Chron-
iclo under date of November 29, 1932, has just been called to
my attention.
This article contains many glaring misstatements of
fact, but I shall concern myself only with certain erroneous
references made by you to one of my books, "Japan - the Air
Monace of the Pacific," to which you erroneously refer to as
"America Conquers the Pacific."
Like so many paid propagandists and writers whose
daily affusions display in many instances a total absence of
thought and who write possibly merely to fill space, your col-
umn on this particular occasion shows an astounding ignorance
of matters on which you assume to write with authority.
For your information, and to correct the misinforma-
tion given readers of your column, the book "Japan - the Air
Menace of the Pacifie" was written in 1924 as the result of a
careful and personal investigation of the Japanese air forces.
At that time condftions in the Pacific were unsettled, and even
"pacifists" like yourself may have shuddered at the imminence
of the war olouds then on the horison. The results of my inves-
tigations in Japam were pmblished in the Los Angeles Examiner,
h Mew Yerk Amerin, and other Hearst newspapers. Mr. williem
was the first newspaper publisher in erise to

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
Jantly on the vital importance of making America first
the air through the development and use of airplanes. Parts
of the book appeared in such conservative publications as the
Washington "Sunday Star" ard e 'Suturday vening Port." These
syndicated articles we e also publis d in vook form.
My feeling at the time I wrote this book on Japanese
aviation was that it would arouse our people to the nec ssity of
a proper air defense. The underlying theme of the book was
"America's Place in the Air." It was n exposition of our unpre-
paredness at that time, and a plea for the development of civil,
military and naval aviation by the United States in consonance
with our relative position in other fields of activity.
While Japan ten years ago was looking ahead to her
"place in the sun," the United States was practically asleep in
the air. The tendency among nations then was to become air-
minded, but the novelty of flying having worn off, the American
people had dulled their consciousness of danger, and the objec-
tive to be reached through the medium of this book was the devel-
opment of a national air consciousness. The book in no sense
was an "outline of things America is planning to do to Japan,"
nor was it in any sense a "jingo book" as you have erroneously
stated.
During March 1932, a Japanese publisher pirated the
book without regard to the cwnership of the copyright by a citi-
son of this country, and between March and April 1932, some
eighty-one editions of approximately 8l,0o0 copies were sold in
Japan, and I am informed that probably over 200,000 copies of
the book have now been sold in Japan. The Japanese have pushed
publication of the Japanese translation of my book, apparently
im an attempt to inflame Japanese sentiment against the United
statss, and are publleising the book as one of the year's "best

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
se translation, nor by Ozawa Kaku Suke, Commander of the
amose
Mavy, who translated the book, that the book itself
was many years out of date, but these militaristically inclined
Japanese war-lords have ende vored to convey the 1dea to the Jap-
anese people that a condition of unpr eparedness in the United
States prevails today, of which they should take advantage.
I call your attention to the fact that all of the mater-
ial for the book on Japanese aviation was carefully checked by
the Acting Chief Signal ofricer of the Uniled States Army, who
in the course of his duties spent many years in Japan. In gather-
ing the material I had the privilege of consulting with Viscount
Schibusawa of Japan, and the Honorable Lyman J. Gage, ex-Secretary
of the Treasury, both internationally known statesmen.
Wh11e I
have not infroquently disagreed with Viscount Schibusawa and the
late Mr. Gage as to inferences which might properly be drawn from
the facts I collated in regard to Japan's feverish activity in
the air, I appreciated the serenity with which both of these world
students and leadors of national thought in their respective coun-
tries viewed a subject requiring tactful and diplomatic handling.
I expressed the hope that the kindly feeling which Visoount
Schibusawa had for the United States, which feeling was recipro-
cated in full measure by Mr. Gage for Japan and her national
aspirations, might be utilized in solving problems which then
confronted California and our nation, and which if unsolved might
easily lead to friction between the two countries.
The introduetion to the book was written by the Honor-
able James D. Phelan, former United States Senator from Califor-
nia, a close student of national questions at home and abroad,
whose interest in aeronauties was devoted to the creation of a
better understanding of shis mest interesting and valuable phase
of medern progress in peaee and war, and who through years of
sutstanding publie service is leyally remembered as Calirornie's
mest represem ative eitisem before the matien and the world.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
A few quotations from former Senator Phelan's intro-
Motion to the book may give you the right idea in regard to its
purpose:
"This book brings home to the Am rican people
the vital necessity of Air Preparedness. Colonel
Davis, who is the author of The World's Wings,'
etc., has had a wide experience as a military ob-
servor. Whether the reader agrees with all of
his conclusions or not, one cannot but be startled
by the facts which he presents, and convinced of
his sincerity. Without any desire to stir up an-
tagonism against Japan, or destroy the peaceful
professions of our powerful Pacific neighbor, I
feel that it is very important that we in am rica
should mow the facts presented in this volume,
I am, and always have been, for peace, but in a
world of conflicting intorests, only the well-
armed nation is reasonably sure to be let alone.
The 'Liberty' on the dome of the Capitol is an
armed Liberty.
"We on the Pacific coast have come closer to
Oriontal problems than the rest of the nation; and
naturally we are the more exposed to the dangers
of unpreparedness.
"The whole Japanese aviation subject is so
new that few writers have attempted to cover it.
In fact, few American observers have had the oppor-
tunity of collating facts in regard to the subject.
Colonel Davis, with a full sense of responsibility,
having first-hand knowledge of these facts, has en-
deavored to give them wide spread publication. He
shows how Japan's air supremacy has been achieved,
and the strategic methods by which Japan has secured
complete mastery of the air in the Pacific. He
takes up facts, showing that Japan 1s today, and for
several years past has been building, more fast
cruisers and long distance submarines than all the
world powers combined; that Japan is advancing more
rapidly in the building of airplanes than any other
country, and Colonel Davis exposes the purpose pre-
sumably for whioh her great air fleet is being con-
strueted. He also outlines the program of defensive
measures which must be taken by the United States to
safeguard itself from this alarming menace of the
air; he deals with the aotivity as well of Great
Britian, Franee, Japan and Germany, in a race for
acrial supremaey, and the position America occupies
with referenee to the national ambitions of these
several countries.
"The informatien collated by our author on this
subject is authemtis, and I think the book will
create a prefeand impression and do much to awaken
our peeple te the mesessity of preparing to meet a
new danger.
"Ameriea is met informed on the subjest of
Japam's air power, but should be. In a new se

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
shadowed, naturally suggests the development of air
powor.
"Japan apparently recognises that aviation 1s
to be the controlling factor in the next war, and
is really making more rapid progress in this direct-
ion than any other country. We are slow to realize
it. There should be an immediate and effective
industrial mobilization, the vital necessity for
which must be impressed upon he American people.
"The invention of new methods of aerial warfare
bring to mind instantly the question, what will the
next war in the air be like; how shall it be con-
duoted, if directed against us in the Pacific, what
will be Japan's objective and how will she go about
reaching it? These are some of the questions answered
by Colonel Davis.
"The subject matter of this book is vital. The
proper defense of our country depends upon whether
the great mass of our reading public can and will
grasp the idea of air supremacy, and then instruct
their represontatives in Congress accordingly.
"We are fully acquainted with colonization
schemes, with the encroachments of the Japanese on
our agricultural lands and fisheries on the Pacific
coast. We are combating as well as we can their
insidious growth and meeting the spread of Japanese
propaganda. The purchase of the entire 1922 spruce
output in the northwest for use in the building of
airplanes, is but one example of Japan's enterprises.
She is thoughtful and resourceful. With her custom-
ary thoroughness, she has recognized that aviation
1s to be the controlling factor in the next war. She
hould not be allowed to assume unchecked authority.
"In Europe, as Colonel Davis points out, avia-
tion is a centralized force, as in Italy, for instance,
where Mussolini actively directs all that pertains to
the air force of his country. Great Britian, Spain,
Demmark, Germany and France, have all unified their
air forees, but in the United States there have been
only sporadic attempts at unification of the air
forces. Progress has not been along definite lines
and moves haltingly.
"The contents of this book will be very start-
ling to many readers. In urging the calling of a
further conferenee by President Coolidge, Colonel
Davis presents a solution which should have thought-
ful consideration. If the Powers do not limit them-
selves in the building of fighting planes, and the
rules of air warfare are not further defined, as
suggested, them America should energetically take up
an adeguate pregrem for preparedness in the air. If
the beek helpe
te sseomplish that result, as I be-
patriotie parpase.
Upon returning frow Japan in 1924, the plan whish I

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
6) entitled "Revising the Rules of Air Warfare." If
are sineere in your pacifist propensities, I commend this
part of the book to your thoughtful consideration.
The prophecy expressed by Major-General Joseph E.
Kuhn, former head of our ur colley e, a parently he: heen ful-
filled. In commenting upon the ook, General Kuhn said:
"Pacifists and quietists will not find
You are entirely within your r'ghts in reviewing and
criticizing a book which you have personally read, but it does
appear to me to be improper for yo, without first-hind know-
ledge, to make use of material furnished you by Japanese propa-
gandists and use that vehicle for attacking a book written solely
from patriotic motives.
While you have talked about peace at any price, how-
ever, the Japanese have tat:en Manehuria. The Wine Power Treaty
and the Kellogg Pact - drafted to prevent Japan from doing just
what she has done - have been ignored, and Japan triumphantly
procoed along her path of conquest which first reaches toward
China, while these pugnacious little brown people pr pare with
thoir customary thoroughness a more ambitious program against
the United States.
In the meantime our "diplomatic broadcasting station"
continues to clutter the air with futile protests which are
ignored, and narrow-minded propagandist space writers, with no
regard for the welfare of our own country, ply their trade in
an un-American way to say the least.
I do not hesitate therefore to characterise your
sniveling peace propensities as evidence of the parasitical
growths with whieh our nation is unfortunately infested. As
an American citisen, is there no way in which you could be
inspired to think as  merissn aitisen with reference to
internatismal questiems, the oppesite side of which will me

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
set for written treaties or sense of national integrity.
you not from the great wealth of our nation's accomplish-
monts write also as an American citizen, sponsoring our own
national interests and urging ur w. national policies in a
definite and defined spirit of nationalism rather tman that of
a propagandist for the over-weaning and ut-re ching ambitions
of the nationalists of other countries.
Somowhere al ng the line of your general education in
Americanism, perhaps you may also be inspired to act as an Ameri-
can citison and use what natural talents you may have in this
connection rather than along the propagandist channels in which
you seem to be more thoroughly at home.
7

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
February 1, 1953
PERSONAL
MR. GEORGE HORACE LORIMER, ditOr,
Saturday Evening Post,
Curtis Publishing Company.
Independence Square,
Philadelphia, Pennyslvenia.
My dear Mr. Lérimer:
Enolosed herewith iz a copy of my letter of
Oetober 28, 1932 to the Secretary of State, protesting
against the pirating of my book on Japanese aviation.
This matter is of importance both to the Saturday Even-
ing Post and myself, as one of the chapters from the book
(Chapter 12 - International Conference to Enforce Peace),
as you will probably r member, appeared in the Saturday
Evening Post October 30, l926 as an editor1al undor the
title "Rovising the Rules of ir "arfare."
Unfortunately my publiaher in Boston did not
obtain an international copyright for the book. That
part of the book, however, which was protected under your
copyright would undoubtedly give us proteotion against
the unauthorised reproduction by the Japanese publisher.
This matter seans to be important at the pres-
ent moment in view of the strained relations between Japan
and this country, and doubtloss if the matter is taken up
by your logal department, in conj:motion with my own legal
representatives, and attorneys representing the Star Pub-
lishing Company, Hearst Sunday papers, and other publica-
tions which printed other sections of the book, we may be
able to compel restitution by the Japanese publisher.
It is extremely interesting to note that a book
whieh had only a limited ciroulation in this cepntry, by
reason of the very mall elass of readers for whom it had
a special appeal, has been one of the best sellers in
Japan during the last year, distributiom within three
months after publieation last spring having reaehed 80,000
and probably s00,000 copies having been sold by the end
of last year.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
Pobruary L 1953
GEORGB HORACE LORIMER,
I would appreciate your reference to this mat-
tor to the attorneys for the Saturday vening Post, with
whom I would be pleased to join in such prooeodings as
may be necessary to protect the intornntional copyra ht
in which we are jointly inter sted.
I anticipate being in the ast for the inaugure-
tion, and may have an opport unity of seeing you and taking
this matter up with your representatives cirect.
with kind personal regards, I em
r  e ly yours
JD:
Bno.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.81)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Noveubu 15, 1933.
SKH:
I have not m mded any
talement to lie offech wit te
Deparmenthas lakeu iot 1
 Davis proiet, as ol wa
has already beew wtod that the
Deph. could do hothurs ubout
he publication a daae
translation of his book.
E17

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
FE 694.544-Davis,
November 20 1988
894.544-DAVI
W. Jeffermon
Mr. W. Jeffereon Davis,
458 South Spring Street,
Los Angeles, Celiformia.
S1z:
S
Phe receipt is acknowledged of your personal letter
dated November 6, 1933, to the Seeretary of State, in which
JEFFERSON/11
you protest against the unauthorized publication in Japan
of & translation of your book JAPAN - THE AIR MENACE OF THE
PACIFIC, and with which you tranemit a copy of a letter
dated January 6, 1933, addressed by you to Mr. Chester E.
Rowell, of San Francisco. California, with regard to the
subjeet matter of your book.
Your courtesy in making your viewe available to the
Department is appreciated.
Very truly yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
Stanley"K. Hormbeok,
NOV 18,1988
Chief.
NOV 20,1988
CR
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
A true conf
the d n-
Rs
nal
FE:EHD:REK
FE
11/15/33

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
W. JEFFERSON DAVIS
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR
Davis. W
458 SOUTH SPRING STREET
LOS ANGELES,CALIFORNIA
December 30, 1933
4il
14.544
MR. STANLEY K. HORNBECK, Chief,
FAR EASIE AFFLIRS
F/E
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
JAN 8 1934
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Depertment of State
S
P
My dear Mr. Hornbeck:
Referring to our conference in Washington some two
weeks ago, and in further reference to my correspondence
894.544-DAV1
with the State Department relative to the unauthorized pub-
lication in Japan of my book "Japan - the Air Menace of the
Pacific", I am writing to suggest t hat one of the chapters
in this book was internationally copyrighted. I refer to
Chapter 12 (International Conference to Enforce Peace) which
appeared in the Saturday Evening Post October 30, 1926 under
the heading "Revising theaw of Air Warfare".
It occurs to me that under the provisions of the
Berne Convention, an author who is not a citizen of a coun-
try having membership in the International Copyright Union
may secure the benefits of the Convention by publishing
S
his work first in a country of the Union, or simultaneously
in a Union Opuntry and his own country. Unless an American
work is made'a Union work by first or simultaneous publica-
tion in a Union country, it is not protected by the Berne
Convention.
JEFFE
I call your attention, however, to the fact that
the particular article from the Saturday Evening Post,
FERSON/12
which is published, as I understand it, simultaneously in
Great Britaan and in this country, is protected by Inter-
national Copyright, and this fact may serve to bring the
case of the unauthorized publication of my book in a dif-
ferent class from those covered merely by the Treaty of l906
with Japan.
A
On my way home, I stopped at Philadelphia for a
FILED
conference with Mr. George Horace Lorimer, Editor of the
Saturday Evening Post, and acquainted him with the facts i

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
MR. STANLEY K. HORNBECK,
-2-
December 30, 1933
this case. I feel that he would be very much interested
in protecting the rights of the Curtis Publishing Company
F/ESP
in this matter, if, in your judgmont, this is a case of
unauthorized publication.
I would be pleased to hear from you at your earli-
est possible opportunity in reference to the points discussed
in our conference, which I have endeavored to call again to
your attention in this letter.
With kind personal regards, I am
894.544DAVIS,W.JEFFERSON/I2
Very sincerely yours,
WJD:M

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.80)
SLEA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
nL
Lea to 5hu
t a ean cosn
7

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 rmontrta
THE LEGAL ADVISER
January 16, 1934.
FE
MrCDooman:
Justitrtion
F/ESP
I suggest for our consideration the ubstane
of something like the following for the draft reply to
Vr. Davis. The suggested draft embodies the substance
of the suggestions contained in Dr. Hornbeck's memo-
894.544-DAV1
randum:
I have received your letter of Decem-
ber 30, 1933, in further relation to the
"unautnorized publication" in Japan of a
translation of your book, "Japan - The Air
Menace of the Pacific", and have noted your
suggestions (1) that a chapter of your book
may be entitled to protection in the coun-
tries of the International Copyright Union
S
by virtue of the publication of the chapter
,W.J
in Great Britain by the Curtis Publishing
Company simultaneously with publication in
the United States, and that the publication
JEFFERSON/13
mentioned may place the "unauthorized publica-
tion" of the translation of your book in a
different category from publications covered
by the Copyright Convention concluded between
the United States and Japan in 1908; and (2)
that the Curtis Publishing Company would be
interested in protecting its rights in the
matter if, in my judgment, "this is a case
of unauthorized publication".
It would seem to be clear that the ques-
tion of the copyright status of the chapter
published by the Curtis Publishing Company,
JAN 22 1934
and the question of the possible effect of
FILED
that publication on the copyright status of
the translation of your book in Japan, are
questions for determination in appropriate
judicial proceedings in the courts of Japan,
and

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
and involve a determination of the question
to what extent, if any, the Copyright Conven-
tion of 1908 between the United States and
Japan is modified or affected by the pro-
visions of the Copyright Jonvention of Berne,
to w. ich Japan is a party  ut which has not
been ratified or adhered to by the United
8tates.
In this situation, you will appreciate
that it would be improper for me to express
any opinion on the question subaitted in
your letter whether "thi3 is a case of of un-
authorized publication". If  smould desire
to obtain an advisory o ini n on the question,
it would seem to be desirable to consult pri-
vate legal counsel.
1e:FXW:MRR:SS

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT
January 11, 1934.
It would seem that the question of whether or not
the publication of the book in Japan was authorized is
a question of fact and that your statement to tre effect
that it was not authorized should dispose of any doubt
which Mr. Lorimer might have on that score. You will,
of course, realize that, inasmuch as the United States is
not a member of the United Copyright Union, I am not in
position to venture an opinion on the question whether
the publication of your book under the existing ciroum-
stances is actionable under the International Copyright
Convention. It would seem to me that this is a question
of law and that if you have in contemplation the possi-
bility of prosecuting an action based on that assumption
you should seek legal counsel.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
January 19, 1934.
My dear Mr. Davis:
894.544-DAV1S,W.JEFF
I have reseived your letter of December 30, 1933.
in further relation to the "unauthorised publication"
in Japan of a translation of your book, "Japan - The
Air Menace of the Pacifio", and have noted your sugges-
tions (1) that a ohapter of your book may be entitled
to proteotion in the countries of the International
Copyright Union by virtue of the publication in Grest
Britain of a chapter of the book by the Curtis Publiahing
Company simultaneously with publication in the United
states, and that the publication mentioned may place
the "uneuthorised publioation" of the translation of
your book in a different oategory from publioations
oovered by the Copyright convention conoluded between
the United States and Japan in 1908; and (2) that the
Curtis Publishing Company would be interested in pro-
teoting its righte in the matter if. in my judgment.
"this is a case of unauthorized publication."
F
It would seem that the question of the possible
offeot of that publioation on the oopyright atatus of
m
the translation of your book in Japan, and the question
2
SON/14
of the oepyright status of the ohapter published by the
Ourtis Publishing Company, are questions which call for
a determination of the question to what extent. if any.
the Copyright Convention of 1908 between the United
States and Japen is modified or affeoted by the provisions
of the Copyright Convention of Berne, to which Japan is 
party but whieh has not been ratified or adhered to by
the United States, and that the appropriate ferum for
sonsideration of those questions would be in the oourts
of Japan.
Suoh
Mr. W. Jefferson Davie.
458 South Spring Street.
Los Angeles, California.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.89)
om the questien set forth in your letter whether
mhowld desire to obtain an advisory opinion on the
guestion, it would seem to be desirable to consult private
1ocm1 eoansel.
Yours sinserely.
JAN2O

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DATE:
December 13, 1937.
SUBJECT:
Protection of Copyright in Japan.
PARTiciPAnTs: Mr. W. Jefferson Davis of Los Angeles, California,
and Dr. McClure
894.54
FAMFASTEHR ALL
COPIES TO:
MH HORBECK
DECI41937
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DAVi
1-1408
S
Mr. Davis had read in the papers of the case of
"Gone With the Wind" and recalled his own case involv-
ing Japan, which he had placed before the Department
JEFFERSON/15
some years ago (894.544-Davis, W. Jefferson). Mr. Davis
suggested that his case might be of use in connection
with the effort now being made to obtain senatorial
41938
FILED
appreval of the treaty.
I erpressed appreciation for this, but urged
Mr. Davis against following the example of "Gone With
the Wind" and having the matter appear in print. I
told him that it would certainly do no good from any
point of view to stir up animosity. Trom the point
of

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of view of his request that his case be reexamined,
which I told him would be done, it would certainly be
inimical to have the matter appear in the public press.
As to the treaty, inflammatory statements, such as
might be made in view of the present situation in the Far
East, might arouse more resentment against Japan than aid
for the treaty.
On his mention of the news in the morning papers
I ventured the suggestion that any sort of information
calculated to arouse further resentment of any sort would
be unfortunate at the moment.
Mr. Davis said that he saw the point and appeared to
be impressed by it.
While in my office Mr. Davis talked with Senator
Duffy by telephone and was requested by Senator Duffy
to get in touch with the Senators from California in
support of the pending copyright treaty.
The book by Mr. Davis, which was translated and the
piratical translation published in Japan, was of a dis-
tinotly inflammatory character, calculated to arouse
Japanese aggressiveness in view of the alleged lack of
preparedness of the United States for armed interference.
Mr. Davis

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
Mr. Davis said, as he had said on a former occasion, that
hundreds of thousands of copies had been circulated in
Japan and the royalties which he woula have received had
it been published under a contract with him were corres-
pondingly very large.
len
hoted
12/14/37
0.W.B.
td - Wallace MoClure - mm.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
CHICAGO ONFICE
TELEPHONE ASHLAND 4-8471
MONADNOCK BUILDING
LANGNER. PARRY, CARD & LANGNER
WASHINGTON OFFICE
900 F. ST. N.W.
TIONAL PATENT AND TRADE MARK
SOLICITORS AND AGENTS
LONDON OFFICE
120 EAST 41T STREET
5 QUALITY COURT
NEW YORK CITY
CHANCERY LANE,W.C.2
C.GODDARD
G.RAVENBCROFT
March 10 1938.
Davis
894.544
March 8, 1958
1938 MAR 1 AM 10 01
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
C)
AND RE
COMMUNICITIONS
Dr. Wallace McClure
CIVISION OF
Assistant Chief
RECEIVED
Treaty Division
Department of State
PAI
A
Washington, D. C.
C
My dear Dr. McClure:
894.544 DAVIS
1.
Many thanks for your letter of March 2,
1938 regarding Mr. Warren Jefferson Davis and his book "Japan,
the Air Menace of the Pacific". I enclose herewith copies of
correspondence with The Curtis Publishing Company in l936.
Although their letter of October 8, 1936 was not entirely respon-
sive to mine of October 3, we assume that when they wrote that
all issues of the Saturday Evening Post are copyrighted in England
they meant that they are published simultaneously here and in
England, and I proceeded on that basis in Japan since we were
attempting to have an amicable settlement with the publishers
rather than a suit for infringement of the copyright.
W.
2.
In view of your letter I have now written
again to The Curtis Publishing Company asking them to execute
an affidavit as it was suggested by them in 1936, in which they
would definitely state that all issues of the Saturday Evening
HEFFERSON/16
Post since 1926 and particularly the issue of October 30, 1926
were published simultaneously in this country and in England,
and to further give me information regarding the person or firm
who in England is responsible for the publication and issue of
copies of the Saturday Evening Post to the public.
3.
When I receive the affidavit from The Curtis
Publishing Company, I shall send you a photostatic copy and I trust
you will find it possihle to send this to the American Embassy
at Tokyo. I could then write at the same time to our associate
in Tokyo sending him an additional photostatic copy of the
affidavit and shall ask him to call at the Embassy for a discussion
of the matter. It may be possible that the officials of the Embassy
A21938
at Tokyo may wish to assist our associate in his amicable negotia-
tions with the Japanese publishers with a view te a sattlement
TREATY DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
PAGE
2
4.
Any further comments or suggestions you may
care to make in this case will be very sincerely appreciated.
Very truly yours
LANGNER PARRY CARD & LANGNER
Lty Uitrade
By
SPL CL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
October 8, 1936
The Curtis Publishing Company
Independence Square
Philadelphia, Penna.
Dear Sirss
will you be so good as to advise us
whother the issues of the Saturday Evening Post are pub-
lished simultaneously in the United States and in a country
party to the International Copyright Union such as Canada.
We are particularly interested to know whether there has
been such simultaneous publication of the issue of October 50,
1926。
If it 1s a fact that simultaneous
publication has taken place, will you kindly advise whether
you could give us an affidavit to that effect for use by
one of cur clients in Japan?
We shall appreciate very much hearing
from you at your early convenience and remain
Very tuly yours
LANGNER PARHY CARD & LANGNER
By
SPL CL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
THE CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
October 8, 1956
Messrs. Langner, Parry, Card & Langner
17 John Street
New York City
Dear Sirss
Answer to your inquiry of October third
has been delayed due to the absence of the writer.
All copies of The Saturday Evening Post,
including that of October 30, 1926, are copyrighted in Greet
Britain, which, as you kmow, is a member of the Internati onal
Copyright Dnion.
e should be glad to give you an affidavit
to that effect if you ao desire.
By referring to page & of the magazine,
at the head of the column carrying the Table of Contents, you
will note that this fsct is so stated.
Very truly yours
THE CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
PHILIP S. COLLINS
R

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
TD
Dear Mr. Ladas:
This to aoknowledge your letter of Maroh 8, 1938
in regard to the publioatlon, without his authoriza-
tion, in Japan, of Mr. Werren Jefferson Davis' book
entitled "Japan, the Air Menace of the Pacifio".
While awaiting the receipt of the additional material
to whieh you allude, oontinued attention will be given
to this matter.
894.544 DAVI
Sincerely yours,
Wallace MoClure
Asmistant Chief, Treaty Division
S
S,W.JEFFERSON/17 F/A
Mr. Stephen P. Ladas,
Care of Langner, Parry, Card and Langner,
426
OR
120 East Forty-first Street,
MAR 10 1938.
New York, New York.
TD:WMcC:ILS8

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
File.
CWere
March 2, 1930.
My dear Mr. Ladas:
On Maroh 1, 1938, Mr. Warren Jefferson Dav1s, of Los
894.544
Angeles, called at my office for the purpose of disoussing
the infringement, by a firm of publiehers in Japan, of his
book entitled Japan, the Air Menace of the Pacific. He had
with him your letter of February 28, 1938 and he permitted
DAVi
me to keep a copy of that letter.
As he probably told you, the Department hed correspon-
S
dence with the Amerloan Embasey at Tokyo in regard to this
matter several years ago. Mr. Davis feels that perhaps
the Department oan be of assistance to him through further
JEFF
instruotions to the Embassy.
In view of the feot that the infringement results from
ER
a translation of Mr. Davis' book into Japanese, the exlsting
S
ON/1
treaty between the United States and Japan, whieh exeepts
tranelations from the copyright protection whioh it reoiproeel-
8
ly accords, there would appear to be no treaty right upon
which reliance can be placed. I note, however, in your letter,
that certain portions of the book were published in the
7
Saturday
Mr. Stephen P. Ladas,
Langner, Parry, Oard & Langner,
120 Bast Forty-first Streot,
Now York, Wew York.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
Saturday Evening Post for October 30, 1936, and as such
were copyrighted in England, & party to the Gonvention for
the Proteotion of Literary and Artistie Works, to which
Japan also is a party.
Before taking up the matter further with the Embasey
at Tokyo, I should like to have, if practioable, full in-
formation in regard to the copyright in England, partioular-
ly whether the Saturday Evening Post arranged for simul-
taneous publication in the United States and Great Britain
so as to give to 1ts 1ssue of Ootober 30, 1926 copyright
preteotion throughout all of the countries whioh are parties
to the -treaty.
I need hardly add that, even if copyright were obtained
in this manner, it is diffioult for the United States Govern-
ment to take any official actlon, 1n view of the fact that
the United States is not a party to the Convention for the
Proteotion of Literary and Artistie Works. That convention
is, as you probably know, now on the executive oalendar of
the Benate, pending action by that body. Whether action
will be taken is, of course, unknown.
I asked Mr. Davis if he had any objeotion to my oorre-
sponding with you in regard to his case. He said that he
had none and I shall, aocordingly, be very mueh pleased to
keep closely in toueh with you as long as there seems to

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
be any possibility that helpful aotion can be taken by the
Department. If you so dssire, I shall be glad to recom-
mend a further 1nvestigation by the American Embassy at
Tokyo into the status of the oase.
Sineerely youre,
Wallace McClure
Assletant Chief, Treaty Division
Atruc eoky
TD:WMOC:EH:SS 3/2

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
May 26 1938.
01501
894.544 DAVi
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
S
Reference is made to the Department's instruotion
no. 144 of November 30, 1932, and to the Embassy's des-
JEFFERSON/19
patoh no. 257 of January 13, 1933, dealing with the un-
authorized publication in Japan of a translation of a
book by Mr. W. Jefferson Davis, entitled "Japen, the
Air Menace of the Pacifio". At the time of this ex-
chenge of correspondence, it appeared that Mr. Davis
hed no legal right to interfere with the publioation
of his book without his consent, and the Embassy limited
itself to e report regarding the facts of the situation.
During recent weeks the Department has egain been
in correspondenoe with Mr. Davis, and with attorneys
employed by him in the case, Messrs. Langner, Parry,
Card and Langner, of l2O East 4lst Street, New York
City. While in the Department on Maroh 1, 1938,
Mr. Davis made available to the Department a letter,
7
dated February 28, 1938, whioh he recsived from his
attorneys,

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
astorneys, a copy of which is enolosed herewith. There
is also enolosed a copy of a letter dated Maroh 8, l938,
signed by Mr. Stephen P. Ladés of the above naped firm.
It appeare from these letters, that a portion or por-
tions of Mr. Davis' book were published in the Saturdax
Evening Post and that the Saturday Evening Post is invar-
iably published simultaneously in the United States and
in Great Britain and coneequently is copyrighted through-
out the countries, among whieh are both Japan and Great
Britain, of the Union for the Proteotion of Literary end
Artistio Works.
Subeequently to the letter of March 8, 1938, Mr. Ladas
filed with the Department a photostat sopy of an affidavit
by the Treasurer of the Curtis Publishing Company, publish-
ers of the Saturday Evening Post. stating that the Saturday
Evening Post is regularly published simultaneously, that
is on the same day, in the United States and Grest Britain
and that the issue bearing date of Ootober 30, l926, was
so published on Ootober 38, 1936.
The issue mentioned
contained a pert of the book, the unaushoriged translation
of whioh has been published in Japan.
The affidavit referred to is enclosed herewith, a copy
having been retained for the Department's files.
For the Embaesy's convenience, there are quoted here-
with, from the English tranelation of the convention for
the proteotion of literary end artistie works, ms revised
and signed at Bome on June 2, 1928, the sole paragraph
of Artiele 8 and the first three paragraphe of Artiole 4

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
a follows
Artiele 8.
"Authors of unpublished works within the
jurisdietion of one of the countries of the
Union, and authors of works published for the
he other countries of the Union during the
whole term of the right in the origimal work
the exelueive right to make or to authosest
the translation of their works."
Artiole 4.
"(1) Authors within the jurisdiotion of
one of the countries of the Union enjoy for
their works, whether unpublished or published
for the first time in one of the countriss of
the Union, suoh rights, in the countries other
than the country of origin of the work, as the
respective laws now accord or shall hereafter
assord to mationals, as well as the rights
@peoially accorded by the present Convention.
"(2) The enjoyment and the exeroise of
such rights are not subject to any formality;
suoh enjoyment and such exercise are indepen-
dent of the existence of proteotion in the
country of origin of the work. Consequently,
apart from the stipulations of the present Con-
vention, the extent of the protection, as well
as the means of redress guaranteed to the author
to safeguard his rights, are regulated exolu-
sively aocording to the leglslation of the
country where the protection is olaimed.
"(3) The following is considered as the
country of origin of the work: for unpublished
works, the country to which the author belongs;
for publiahed works, the country of firet pub-
lication, and for works published simultaneously
in several countries of the Union, the country
among them whose legislation grante the short-
est term of protection. For works publiehed
simultaneously in a country outeide of the
Union and in a country within the Imion, it
le the latter country whieh is exolusively con-
sidered as the country of origin."
The Department calle partioularly to the Embassy's
attention the first sentenoe of the second paragraph of
Artiole 4 and the laet sentenee of the third paragraph
of Artiole 4. By the former copyright is made aute-
matie, that is, not subjeet to any formality, but vest-

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
ing upon the creation of the literary work. By the
latter passage, when works are published simultaneouely
in a country outside the Union, such as the United States,
and in a country within the Union, such as Great Britain,
it is the latter country whioh has to be gonsidered the
country of origin within the meaning of the treaty.
In view of the foregoing, it would appear that at
least a part of Mr. Davis' book is entitled to protection
in Japan and it 1s with a view to obtaining a settlement
based upon suoh right of proteotion, that his attorneys
appear to be pressing the case.
The Department desires that the Embassy investigate
the present status of the oase and report fully thereon.
The persons mentioned in the letter of February 28, l938,
from his attorneys to Mr. Davis, will, it is hoped, be
of assistanoe in this connection.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
R. Walton Moore
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter
dated February 28,
1938, from attorneys.
2. Gopy of letter dated
Maroh 8, 1938, from
Mr. Stephen P. Ladas.
3. Gopy of photostat of
affidavit.
894.544 - Davis, W. Jeiferson/
25 1938.FM
guil
35/17
m v

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
Jdle
weu
LANGNER, PARRY, CARD & LANGNER
International Patent and Trade Mark Bolicitors
and Agents
120 East 41st Street
New York City
February 28, 1938
AIR MAIL
Warren Jefferson Davis, Esq.,
Army & Navy Club,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Davis:-
re: Warren Jefferson Dav1s - Copyright
in Japan
1. I am sorry I was not in the Office on Saturday when
you called. I understand my secretary read to you the
letter which I had sent to Mr. Card of our Cnicago Office
a few days ago and reading as follows:
"With further reference to this matter, we have just
received a letter from our Japanese associate Koh
Kawarada. He states that on receipt of our last
letter, he immedietely telephoned Mr. Mishina, Coun-
sel, who offered to intervene with the publishers in
order to obtain a settlement in tnis case. Our
associate pressed nim for a definite reply within a
week. If ne should not receive such a reply from
Mr. Miahina by February 3, 1938, our associate
writes that he will personally call on the publish-
ers and take up the matter directly with them and he
will advise us of the result at once."
The reason why our associate has depended upon Counsel
Mishina making an effort to make an arrangement in this
case is the fact that Mr. Mishina was acquainted with the
publisner, Shinko-she, and it was felt that he would have
a greater success in obtaining a settlement.
2. In view of tne present report of our assoclate that
he would take up personally the matter witn the publisher
unless he nad a definite report from Mr. Mishina by Feb-
ruary 3rd, we hope to receive very shortly a further
report from our associate in this matter.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
3. As your correspondence will indicate, we called the
attention of Counsel Mishina to the fact that the Satur-
day Evening Post of October 30, 1926, which published
what constitutes one chapter of your book, was copyrighted
1n Englana which 1s a member of the International Copy-
right Union of which Japan is also a member. In other
words, we definitely presented the matter to the publisher
to the effect that you are in a position to prove that
certain chapters of your book wnich have been published in
translation by tne Japanese publ1sher enjoyed international
copyright protection so that the Japanese publisher had
clearly committed infringement of the copyright under the
Japanese law.
4. We are glad to know that you propose to take up the
matter with my friend Dr. McClure of the State Department.
He should doubtless be able to advise you whether the
State Department may, through 1ts Toklo Embassy, assist
in our obtaining a satisfactory settlement from the Japan-
ese publisher of the translation of your book.
5. We shall be glad to hear from you with regard to any
suggestions Dr. McClure cares to give you and we are
again writing to our Japanese assoclates today advising
them that your and our patience have been exhausted in
this matter and we shall require definite and final action
within a short time.
Very truly yours,
LANGNER PARRY CARD & LANGNER
BY
SPL:h

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES OF AJERICA
UTATE OF PENNSYLAANIA
S8:
COUNTY OF PHI AD-IPHIA
ALFIDAVIT
C. . Bok
being duly
sworn, deposes ana says:
1.
I am the
Treesuror
Tue Curtis Pulishing C)npany, pui lishers of tne. "Saturday Evening
Post", a weekly mujazi..e.
The salu company issues to the public all
copies of its ma szine sinu taneously, i. e., on the sane day in
tne United States and in Great Britain, so that publication of
such magazine takes pluce simultaneously in tnis country and in a
country member of the Interuational Copyright Convention.
Ci
3.
The suid company has been issuing to the
public simultaneously all copies of its magazine, the "Saturday
Evening Post", for very many years past and particularly from 1926
to this year.
4.
The said company has particularly issued copies
of Saturday Evening Post" bearing date of October 50, 1926 on the
28thday ofOctober
19k6
in the United States and in England.
5.
The issue of copies and publication of the
"Saturday Evening Post in England on the same day as in the United
States is made, so far as England is concerned, by Mesere.
Rello House Publlebiad Compaar, Limited
dof Rolle House. Broams
London, England
Building,
And I make tais deelaration conscientiously
beliéving the aame to be true, and under and by virtue of the pre-

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.85)
NITHTATES AEA
ATE OF PFNNCYANI
∴81
NTY F PHT AA
AFEAVIT
C. F. Bo
being duly
F, 1ps  say:
I an the
Trensuror
of
e Curtis Pu isne (uny,  1shers of tne saturday Evening
Post, a eekiy ml:.
2.
The aid company issues t the publie all
copies of its rzine simtaneusly, i. e., on  same day in
the Unitod States and in Grent Britain,  that pubiiantin of
sucn maasine takes place aimultaneously in tnis country and ina
oountry mober of the Internati nai Copyright Convention.
8.
The cony bbn iuing to the
puhlic simultaneousy all copies of its mgasime, the Saturday
Evening Post", for very many yeurs past and partioularly from 1928
to this year.
4.
The said company has particularly issued copies
of Saturde Iveing Post bearing date of October 50, 196 on the
athdeyofOctober
106
id the United Statee and in England.
5.
The les of copies d publication of the
setarday Besing Postein Baglamd on the same day as in the United
tates is mde so far a England is oncerned, by eere
  .
md.
Landongn
And I make tad deratiou comoclantiomaly
☆
,

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.92)
visions of section 1778 of the Revised statutes of the United States
of America, approved June 22, 1874.
Doclared at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
t1is
16th
day of March, 1988:

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
LANGNER, PARRY, CARD & LANGNER
Intermatlonal Patent and Trade Mark Solioitors
and Agents
120 East 41 street
New York City
February 28, 1938
AIB MAIL
Warren Jefferson Davis, Eeq.,
Army & Navy Club,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Kr. Davis:-
re: Warren Jefferson Davis - Copyright
in Jupan
1. I am sorry I was not in the ofrloe on Saturday when
you called. I understand my seoretary read to you the
letter whioh I had sent to mr. Card of our Chloago office
 few days ugo and reading an follows:
"with further reference to this matter, we have just
reoeived a letter from our Japanese associate Koh
Kawarada. He states that on reoeipt of our last
letter, be immediately telephoned ur. uishina, Coun-
sel, who offered to intervene with te publlshers in
order to obtuin a settlement in this case. Our
assoolate pressed im for a definite roply withln a
week. If he shoulu not receive suoh u reply from
Mr. Miahina by February 3, 1938, our assooiate
writes that be will pereonally call on the publish-
ere and take up the matter direotly with them and he
will advise us of the result at once.
The reason why our assoolate lhas depended upon Counsel
Mishina making an effort to make an arrangement in this
case is the feot that wr. Mishine was acquainted with the
publisher, Bhinko-sha, and it was felt that he would have
è greater suooess in obtaining a mettlement.
2. In view of the present report of our aseoclate that
he would take up permonally the matter with the publiaher
wnless be bad a definite report from Mr. Mishina by Feb-
ruary 3rd, we hope to reoeive very shortly a further
report from our assoolate in this matter.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
visions of Section 1778 of the Revised statutes of the United States
of America, approved June 22, 1874.
Declared at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
this
16th
day of March, 1938:
Treasurer

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
LANGNER, PARRY, CARD & LANGNER
Internatlonal Patent and Trade Mark Solicitors
and Agents
120 East 418t Street
New York City
February 28, 1938
AIR MAIL
Warren Jefferson Davis, Eeq.,
Army & Navy Club,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Davis:-
re: Warren Jefferson Davis - Copyright
in Japan
1. I am sorry I was not in the Ofrioe on Baturday when
you called. I understand my seoretary read to you the
letter whioh I had sent to Mr. Card of our Chioago Office
a few days ago and reading as follows:
"with further reference to this matter, we have just
reoeived a letter from our Japanese associate Koh
Kawarada. He states that on reoeipt of our last
letter, be immediately telephoned ur. Wishina, Coun-
sel, who offered to intervene with the publishers in
order to obtain a settlement in this case. Our
assoolate pressed him for a definite reply within a
week. If he should not receive suoh a reply from
Mr. Miahina by Pebruary 3, 1938, our assooiate
writes that he will personally call on the publish-
ere and take up the matter direotly with them and he
will advise us of the result at onoe."
The reason why our assooiate has depended upon Counsel
Mimhina making an effort to make an arrangement in this
case is the faot that kr. Mishine was aoquainted with the
publisher, Shinko-sha, and it was felt that he would have
è sreater suocess in obtaining a mettlement.
2. In view of the present report of our assooiate that
he would take up personally the matter with the publiaher
wmless be bad a definite report from Mr. Mishina by Feb-
ruary 3rd, we hope to recsive very shortly a further
report from our assoelate in this matter.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
3. As your correapondence will indicate, we called the
attentlon of Counsel Mishina to the fact that the Satur-
day Evening Post of Ootober 30, 1926, which publ1shed
what constitutes one ohapter of your book, was copyrighted
in England whioh 1s a member of the International Copy-
right Union of which Japan is also a member. In other
worde, we definitely presented the matter to the publlsher
to the effeot that you are in a position to prove that
certain ohapters of your book which have been published in
translation by the Japanese publlaher enjoyed international
copyright proteotion so that the Japanese publisher had
clearly committed infringement of the copyright under the
Japanese law.
4. We are glad to know that you propose to take up the
matter with my friend Dr. MoClure of the State Department.
He should doubtless be able to advise you whether the
State Depariment may, through its Tokio Enbassy, asslst
in our obtaining a satlsfactory settlement from the Japan-
es publlmher of the translation of your book.
5. we shall be glau to hear from you with regard to any
suggestions Dr. MoClure cares to give you and we are
again writing to our Japunese assoolates today advising
them that your and our patlence Lave been exhausted in
this matter and we shall require definite ana final aotion
within a short time.
Very truly yours,
LANGNER PARRY CARD  LANGNER
BY
SPL:h

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
LANGNER, BARRY, CARD & LANONER
International Patent and Trade Mark
Solioitors and Agents
120 East 4lst Street
New York City
Merch 8, 1938
Dr. Wallace MoClure
Assistant Chier
Treaty Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Dr. MoClure:
1. Many thanks for your letter of Maroh 2, 1938 regerding
Mr. Warren Jefferson Davis and his book "Japan, the Air
Menace of the Pacifio". I enolose herewith copies of
correspondence with The Curtis Tublishing Company in l936.
Although their letter of Cotober 8, l936 was not entirely
responsive to mine of cotober 3, we assume that when they
wrote that all issues of the Saturday Evening Post are
copyrighted in Ingland they meant that they are published
simultaneously here and in England, end I proceeded on
that basis in Japan since we were attempting to have an
amioeble settlement with the publishers rather than a
suit for infringement of the copyright.
2. In view of your letter I heve nov written again to
The Curtis Publishing Company asking them to exeoute an
affidavit as 1t was suggested by them in l936, in which
they would definitely stete that all issues of the
Saturday Evening Post since 1926 end pertioularly the
1ssue of Cotober 30, l926 were published simultaneously
in this oountry and in Englend, end to further give me
information regarding the person or firm who in England
1s responsible for the publication end issue of copies
of the saturday Evening Tost to the public.
3. When I receive the affidavit from The Curtis Pub-
liahing Company, I shall send you a photostatio copy and
I trust you will find it possible to send this to the
Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo. I could then write at the
same time to our associate in Tokyo sending him an
additional photostatio copy of the afridavit and shall
ask him to call at the Embassy for a disoussion of the
matter. It may be possible that the offioials of the
Bmbassy at Tokyo may wish to assist our associate in his
amieable negotiaticms with the Japanese publishers with
a view to a settlement.
4. Any further eemmonte or suggestioms you may oare to
make in this ease will be very sincerely eppreciated.
Vony traly yours
LANGNER PARRY CARD & LANONER
aL OL
By Stephen P. Lades.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
LVD
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
ss:
COUNTY OF PHILADELPHIA
AFFIDAVIT
C. W. Bok
being duly
sworn, deposes and says:
1. I am the Treasurer of The Curtis Publishing Company,
publishers of the "Saturday Evening Post", a weekly maga-
zine..
2. The said company issues to the public all copies of
its magazine simultaneously, i.e., on the same day in
the United States and in Great Britein, so that publi-
cation of such magazine takes place simultaneously in
this country and in a country member of the International
Copyright Convention.
3. The said company has been issuing to the public
simultaneously all copies of its magazine, the "Saturday
Evening Post", for very many years past and particularly
from 1926 to this year.
4. The said company has particularly issued copies of
"Saturday Evening.Post" bearing date of October 30, 1926,
on the 28th day of October, 1926 in the United States and
in England.
5. The issue of copies and publication of the "Saturday
Evening Post" in England on the same day as in the United
States is made, so far as England is concerned, by Rolls
House Publishing Company, Limited of Rolls House, Breams
Building, London, England.
And I make this declaration conscientiously believing
same to be true, and under and by virtue of the pro-
visions

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
visions of Seotion 1778 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States of America, approved June 22, 1874.
Declared at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, this 16th
day of March, 1938.
C. W. Bok
Treasurer

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
12 P4 1 49
No. 3145.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, July 14, 1938.
SUBJECT:
ADDRESSES IN COPYRIGHT
PROTECTION CASE.
TREATY DIVISION
1  C
fohug 181938
894.544 DAViS
Fride
1., f1.1.1
For
In U S A
Wen
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4
The Honorable
PAN TASIENN AFFAIRS
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
W.JEFFERSON/20
Sir:
I un.
In reference to the final sentence of instruction l5ol,
May 26, 1938 and to enclosure 1 thereto, the Embassy desires
to be informed of the addresses of "Mr. Mishima, Counsel" and
"Mr. Koh Kawarada." Even without the addresses the Embassy has
attempted to locate these men, but several leads have, after
FILED
some delay, proved illusory. The addresses are thereforeire-
3
quested, although the Embassy will meanwhile continue iterrorts
without awaiting a reply.
Respectfully yours,
854.
Joseph C. Grew.
oo:r

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
4.l
TREATY DIVISION
FEB 10 1942
WARREN JEFFERSON DAVIS
DEPARTMENI
COUNSELOR AT LAW
DEPARTMENT OF STA
GUARANTY BUILDING
HOLLYWOOD 5182
FEB 9 1942
HOLLYWOOD. CALIFORNIA
Ackna. bgt
4 Feb1942
RTMENT CF
FAR EASTERN AFFAMAR 1!1942
EGAL ADVISER
Attention: Mr. StanleyA. Hornbec
DIVISION OF
Chief, or
Dr. Wallace McClure.
Department of Sta
DEPANTMC
Gentlemen:-
Pursuant to the announced policy of the Administration to
create a permanently efficient institution for the protection of our
interests abroad, I filed with the Secretary of State on October 28,
1932, a full statement covering the anauthorized publication (April 13,
1932) in Japan of my book, "Japan, the Air Menace of the Pacific",
(Ninon Osoruboshi), of wnich 81 editions (81,000 copies) were sold
out before July 8, 1942, and of which over 500,000 copies were ulti-
mately sold in Japen.
Some of the material in this book was protected by Inter-
national Copyright (my letter of December 30, 1933), bringing the case
of the unauthorized publication in a different class from those covered
merely by the Treaty of 1906 with Japan.
894.544
Official sanotion for the unauthorized publication is to be
inferred from the introduction to the book by the late Sojiro Tochinai,
Admiral, and translation made by Ozowa Kaku Suke, Commander in the Japa
nese Navy.
No settlement for infringement of copyright has been made by
the Japanese Government, although Hirosi Saito, the late Japanese Ambasi
dor to this country communicated with the Japanese Foreign Office, advis
ing that I am clearly entitled to copyright protection, and suggested
that arrangements be made by the Japanese Foreign Office to pay me a roy
alty on the same basis (twenty five per cent) as in the Lindberghase.
Now that Japan is at war with the United States, and undoub
ly Japanese credits have been impounded in sufficient amounts to coyer
ment of claims of American citizens, may I ask whether machinery ll
set up for consideration of these claims of American citizens against
Japan, and provision made for payment of same.
Very truly yours,
Warren Jesferson Davis
D-W
PS
/MM

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.92)
+A/
Fobruary 9, 1942.
Dear Mr. Davis:
I askmowledge reeeipt of your letter of February 4
on the subjeet of olaime against Japan for infringement
5
of eopyright. Your letter was addressed to the Division
of Far Mastern arfaire and directed to my attentien or
that of Dr. Wallase NoGlure.
I am referring your letter to Dr. MoClure and to
ather appropriate offieers of this Department with the
request that they reply direotly to you in the matter.
Loure sincerely,
STANLEY K. HORNBECK
Stanley K. Herabeek
Jeffereen Devie,
A trus cepy of

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.92)
February 9, 14.
Dear Mr. Davle:
I eoknowledge recei t of your letter of February 4
on the subjeot of olaima ngainat Jaoan ror infringement
of oopyright. Your lotter wap annressed to the Division
of Far Eastern affaire ant direoted to my attention or
that or Dr. ellmoe YoClure.
I am referring your letter to Dr. xoClure and to
other approprlat. offioere of this Department witn ll.e
request thet they renly sireotly to you in the watter.
Youre sincerely,
STANLEY K. HCRNBECK
Stanley X. Hornbeok
Adviser on Politionl Relatlons
Mr. Warren Jeffereon Davle,
Oueranty Bullding,
Hollywood, Callfornia.
PA/H:AHI0SIBOT
PA/H 32.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.87)
1942
FAR EARTERN ARFAIRS
MAR14 1942
Department of State
MR.HUMAYBECK
MAF L8 1942
894.544/20
Davis
r rafernce is made to your letter of p
y 4, 1942 in regard to the alloged infringemsnt by the
Govemt of the opyr ight in your book
miryllbef
ideretion of claims by Amerioan citisons agaimst apem.
The Degarthsent is net aware of amy presetere fer the
sumsideratien by any ageney of the Gevermment of the tmiteé
94
 of elaime of the charester to which you refer. ou
swer, your letter and the previous correspendsmee on the

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.93)
Simerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Green H. Baskworth
Legal Adviser

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.91)
EGAADVISER
AU627 1938
4
THE FOREIGREOEVAGE
DEBAHTHENT OF STATE
DEPART MENT OF STA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1988 AUG 25 AM 11 58
No. 3129.
COHMUN
19.8.
SUBJ DT:
.OIIT.
 30 1938.
394.544 DAVIS
TREATY DIVISN
Jil 'AUG 2 9 1938
u
DEPARTMENI OF IA
Division of
FAR EASTEAN AFFAINS
10
WUG26 1934
Departmant of Stalo
The Secretary of Stete,
Washington.
JEFFERSON/21
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Denartment's instruction
19
1938, with regard to copyright protection in Japan of parts
of a book by Ir. W. Jefferson Davis entitled "JAPAN, TE AIR
MEIACE OF THE PACIFIC."
After several unsuccessful attempts to trace the Japh-
FILED
nese concerned with the case from names given (without adare
8)
in copy of the letter of Februery 28, 1933 to r. Davis om
Langner

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Langner, Parry, Card and Langner, the Embassy was today able
to interview a Ir. Ko Mewarado, 2 Yaminne, Azebu-ku, Tokyo,
who is ess cite o tint le
Froeuntiven
by  r. Kavarade it
Pirr shiko-sha
has gone out of oxi tence nd
ee
succee  the firm Seibun-do;
that a Ir. Kuramoto is l ver for the Seibun-do; that  r. Yawarada
and :r. Yurmoto  ve had sevorel e  e  ne: thet, in accord-
ance vith e leter rom  er.rr,  rd m Le rer, r.
Kawerada informed r. ura oto t et r. D vis ishes royalty
amounting to t enty-five percent of the rrice of all copies
of the Japanese tran: lation which ere sold; that r. Kuramoto
revlied that suc. roy lty is u'terly i ossible, i view of
total profit on the puolic tion cnterprise  ountin to but
a fraction of the ro olty  ure su estea; t et the Jepanese
Foreign Office has int rested itself in a settlin of the case;
and that pending some specific su estion rron the Foreicn
Office for a settlement, little in fact is bein done further.
The Embassy suggested to  r. Kawarade that it might be of
use to Ir. Davis to have some offer of specific basis of
settlement to which the Seibun-do is ready to agree. At the same
time the Enbassy emphasized that its part is thus far one of
reporting only, and that r. Kawarada should continue to look
tohis princinals for instructions.
Mr. Kuramoto, it appears, has ex ressed the opinion that
the Japanese courts would not find the Japanese publisher guilty
of infringement of British copyright of the perts published in
the SATURDAY EVENING POST when the Japanese publisher made
translation from the American book , itself lacking international
copyright proteotion. In this opinion Mr. Kawarada has confi-
 dontially expressed to the Embassy concurrenoe. It is not known
whether

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
- 3 -
whether the book as published in the United States mekes
explicit note of copyright of certain purts under the laws
of Great Britein, therefore oxteudin to the members of the
copyriht urion.
The Pabessy Lr e totivel ived  the e relusion
that the profit involved in publishin this unauthorized
translation, and therefore the nossi le rovelty obteinable,
ere probebly si alle t voul er to be the ex ectation
of Ir. Davis. Publishin in Jopen is ener lly done on a
narrow basis of profit, und sules are enerally not as lerge
as would be inferred from edvertising. owever regrettable,
settlement for & small figure uppears the only practicable
solution, given all the circumstances.
Resnectfull ours,
gor the Asedor:
N. Doou
854.
cC:r
.. Dooman
Counselor of Embassy.
X

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.90)
september 80 1938..
894.544 DAVIS
My dear Mr. Ladas:
Reference 1s made to my letter of March 2, 1938
regarding an instruotion to the Amerioan Embassy at
Tokye for the purpose of again investigating the status
of the wmauthorised publieation in Japan of a Chimese
translation of the book entitled Sapen, the Air Menase
 he Eagfe, by Mr. W. Jefferaen Davis.
W
The Department is now in reeeipt of a report from
the Embasey dated August 5, 193s, of which the following.
JEFFERSON/22
ceataining the substance, is tranemitted for your confiden-
tial imformation and that of your elient.
"After several unsuceessful attempts to trase
the Japanese soneerned with the ease frem mames
givem (without addresses) in eopy of the letter of
and and Langmer, the Eabesey was teday able to
ublihing sám minke-che has gone out of
existense
phon P. Le,
P. Gard  Lae,
Fertyfiret street,

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
一
existenee and been sueccsded by the firm Seibun-de:
that a Mr. Kuramoto 1s lawyer for the Seibun-de!
that Mr. Kawarada and Mr. Kuramoto have had several
conversations; that, in accordance with a letter
from Langner, Parry, Card and Langner, Mr. Kawarada
informed Mr. Kuramoto that Mr. Davis wishes royalty
amounting to twenty-five pereent of the prlce of all
copies of the Japanese translatien whieh were sold;
that Mr. Kuramoto replied that sueh royalty is
utterly impossible, in view of total profit on the
publieation enterprise amounting to but a fraction
of the royalty figure suggested: that the Japanese
Foreign Office has interested itself in a settling
of the ease; and that pending some speoifie sugges-
tiom from the Foreign Office for a settlement,
little in fast is being done further.
"The Eabassy suggested to Mr. Kawarada that it
might be of use to Mr. Davis to have some offer of
spesifio basis of settlement to whioh the Seibun-de
is ready to agree. At the same time the Eabassy
emphasised that its part is thus far ene of reperting
only, and that Mr. Kawarada should continue to look
to his prinoipals for instruetions.
"Mr. Kuramoto, it appears, has expressed the
opinien that the Japanese courts would not find the
Japenese publisher guilty of infringement of British
copyright of the parts published in the Saturdax
Erening Pest when the Japanese publisher made trans-
Laviem frem the Ameriean beok, itself lacking inter-
Mr. Kawarade has cenfidentially expressed to the
beck as publisked in the United states makes
empliest mete ef copyright of certain parte under
the laws of Great Britain, therefore extending to
the members of the copyright wmion.
ethe Babesny has testatively aprived at the
shis wnentherised tremelasien, and therefere the
setatien of Mr. Davis.
20

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
large as would be inferred from edvertising.
Hewever regrettable, settlement for a small
figure appears the only practioable solution,
given ali the oiroumstances."
The Department will be glad to receive any comment
whieh you may wish to offer.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Wallaee MeClure
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
A true copy of
281.938
the
igned origi-
Jurs
nay
JOG:1L:85
B
FE
mmA.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TREATY DIVISION
A631 1939
Departine o State
MENT
STATF
Augagtsion
1939.
RECEIVED
DEPART
AUG 31 1939
SEP 11 1939
COPYRIGHT PIRACY IN JAPAN
DIVISION OF
of Los Angeles, California.
894.544
Mr. Dav1s telephoned on Au ust 30, 1939 to say that
he was passing through Washington and would like to know
whether there was any further information in the Department
regarding his effort to obtain recognition of the copyright
of a book of his which has been unauthorizedly published
1n Japan and which he believes to have been sold to the
S
extent of some hundreds of thousands of copies.
H
Mr. Davis was reminded that the treaty between the
United States and Japan gave no protection against trans-
C
E
lation; also, that his case is only one of a large number
FERSON/23
of cases affecting American books which have been trans-
lated and published in Japan without their authors' con-
sent. He was also told that the convention for the pro-
S
teotion of literary and artistic works, which the Denrt
ILED
ment has hoped might in the future provide legal proteo-
tion against such piracy in Japan, was not acted uponby
the Senate, despite intensive efforts, before the adjourn-
F
ment of the recent session. It was added that there seemed
to be a reasonable expectation of successful action in the
8
next

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
next regular session of Congress.
Mr. Davis stated that he haped to be in Washington
again in October and asked that his interest in the matter
be kept in mind. He stated also that he had at one time
corresponded on this subject with the late Japanese Ambas-
sador at Washington, Mr. Saito. Mr. Saito, according to
Mr. Davis, had undertaken to persuade the Japanese Govern-
ment to reimburse him to the extent of 25 per centum in
royalties. Mr. Davis said that he had argued that such
action on the part of the Japanese Government would be
calculated to result in good will on the part of the Ameri-
can people. He said that he intended to address the pre-
sent Japaneee Ambassador along the same lines.
hoted
83

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
894
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
894.544 GONE WITH THE WIND
SUBJECT
Pirated movie of "Gone With the Wind, veing
produced in Japan. Comnent on various viola-
tions of the copyrights on -
ge
For the original paper from which reference is taken
2
See
Letter
(Deepatch, talegram, instruotion, letter, stc.)
Dated ..
Aug. 8, 1940
From
Margaret Mitchell
To
File No.800.544 GONE WITH THE WIND/1

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.91)
June 4. 1041
My Gear Mr. Rebinson:
The Department has reesived your letter of Nay 20,
194l, stating that, aosording to information from a
cempetent amtherity in Japan, one of your titles,
894.544REINHOLD
namely "hemistry and Petroloum Derivatives", by
Carleton Ellis, is being reprinted and offored for
cale in Japan, also, that you believe the motion re-
farred to is without authorizatlon and in vlolation
of your copyright.
Artieles I and II of the copyright convention of
894
November 10, l005, to whioh you refer, are as followe:
Renbrond
"Artiole I.
on
"The subjeets or citizens of each of the
Pubeiren
two High Gontracting Parties shall enjoy in the
dominions of the other, the proteotion of copy-
righs for their works of literature end art es
weil as photographs, against ièlegal poprodmotion,
一
on the aame basis on whieh protootion is grented
-Z
to the subjeets or sitizens of the other, subjeet
however to ths provisione of Artiele II of she
ON/I
present Conventlon.
"Artiele II.
Mr. C. C. Robinson,
Manager, Book Dept.,
PS
Reinheld Publishing Corporasion,
330 West 42nd Street,
/HH
New York, New York.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.71)
,e
thathse the dapanese elition of your beek Ls in Japanase
er in Engliah, also whether, if in English, the fesmalé
t r s o l i e
ur llti.
S earing freu you further, the Reartment wall
bo ae to sonaiéer whother helpful setion on ite part
may be feetble.
Simserely yours,
Fer the Seeretary of States

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
REINHOLD PUBLISHING CORPORATION
Successor to
THE CHEMICAL CATALOG COMPANY,Inc
THE PENCIL POINTS PRESS, INC.
RALPH REINHOLD. Pres. and Treas.
H. BURTON LOWE. Vice-Pres. and Secy.
PHILIP H. HUBBARD, Vice-Pres.
330 WEST 42ND STREET, NEW YORK
FRANCIS M TURNER, Vice-Pres.
me sth, 1941.
Publishers of
A. C. S. MONOGRAPH SERIES
TREATY DS
894.54VREINHOLD
SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL AND
Mr. Wallace McClure,
ARCHITECTURAL BOOKS
Acting Chief, Treaty Vivision,
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CATALOG
Department of State,
PENCIL POINTS
MAR 19 194
Washin ton, D. C.
METALS AND ALLOYS
Dear Hr. McClure:-
DEPARTMEN
ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT
Concerning your request for additional information
of
in your letter of June 4th regardingthe alleged "pirating"
AMBRICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY
in Jepan of our book, "The Chemistry of Petroleum Derivatives".
by Ellis, we heve to aavise that Volume I of "The Chemistry
of Petroleum Derivatives", by Carleton Ellis, was copyrighted
under the laws of the United States in 1934. Volume II of
TREATY DIVISION
"The Chemistry of Petroleum Derivatives", by Carleton llis.
was copyrighted uncer the laws of the United States in 1937.
PUBLISHING
We are informed that both of these volumes have been
printed in English in exact duplication by what is known
and termed in this country as printin by the "offset" process.
DEPARMENI
According to our understanding of the reference in
Ladas - International Protection of Literary and Artistic
Properties, page l057, it would appear that the offending
party is acting in direct contradiction to Article I of the
copyright convention of November 10th, 1905.
The writer would like to stress the importance of
cop
taking action at once to prevent the illegal action complained
CORPOR ATI ON/
of. We have many titles of technical books which are sold
to Japan each year, and if this practice is to be allowed
to continue it will utterly destroy our market in Japan.
According to our informant, this particular se oof!
books is being offered at one-third of the price which our
agents in Japan are selling it for. The total cost of the
two volumes in this country is $38.00. We have many ather
valuable volumes which may be subject to the same treatment.
Very truly yours,
2
TE REINHOLD PUBLISHING CORP.
C.C. Rofimoon
CCRobinson/Mc
Manager, Book Dept.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
REINHOLD PUBLISHING CORPORATION
Foler
Successor to
THE CHEMICAL CATALOG COMPANY, Inc.
loncc
THE PENCIL POINTS PRESS, INC.
RALPH REINHOLD. Pr. nd Treas.
H. BURTON LOWE. Vice-Pres. and Secy.
PHILIP H. HUBBARD, Vice-Pres.
330 WEST 42ND STREET, NEW YORK
FRANCIS M. TURNER. Vice-Pres.
May 28th, 1941.
Publishers of
Jant
A. C. S. MONOGRAPH SERIES
C
SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL AND
Dr. Wallace McClure, Asst. Chief,
ARCHITECTURAL BOOKS
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CATALOG
Treaty Division,
FR EASTERN AFFAIKS
PENCIL POINTS
Department of State,
METALS AND ALLOYS
Washington, D. C.
WA
Dear Sir:-
ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT
We are informed by competent authority in Japan
of
that one of our titles namely, "Chepistry of Petroleum
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY
Derivatives", by Carleton Elris, published in two volumes,
894.544REINHOLD
and copyrighted in the United States, is being reprinted
and offered for sale in Japan by The Gohin Seisakujo
(Gohin Manufactory). No. 1, Nichome, Maki-cho, Kyobashiku,
Tokyo.
We believe this to be a pirated edition since no
authority for such a publication has been granted by the
REINHOLD PUBLISHING CO PORATION, holders of the copyright
of this book, furthermore, that it is in direct violetion
of the copyri,ht laws and our Treaty Right Agreement signed
in 1905 by the United States and Japan.
Not knowing the procedure necessary for us to take
for the protection of our rights, we are writing your
Uew
Department in the hopes that you can advise us in detail
as to just what procedure we should follow and what steps
Conp.
the State Department will take to protect our interest.
On
FILED
Trusting that we may be favored with an early
Publiskiing
reply, we are
S
Very truly yours,
THE REINHOLD PUBLISHING CORP.
N
C.C. Rohrison
CCRobinson/Mc
Manager, Book Dept.
PS/HH
