894.727 Telegraph. Concessions. Construction. Equipment., Japan, Telegraph Codes., June 3, 1930 - February 24, 1939 (File 1080)
ID: 894.727-1080   Pages: 194   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.727-telegraph-concessions-construction-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
Index Bureau
ROCFIVED
15 1930
Dept. of State
ti
Hon. David A. Salmon.
Chief of the Burcau of
Indexes and Archives,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.
Dear Sir:
I addressed several communications
to you concerning the Telegraphic Codes of the
Japan's Foreign Office, but received no answer;
I wonder if you are doubting the truth of my
suggestion.
I have taken the the matter up with
HIM - Mr. . Momose, Chancellor of the Japan's
Consulste here - as to furnishing the specimen
to me.
I am pleased to enclose the photographs
of the Codes which I hope will be of interest
to you.
If you will communicate with HIM at
1530 Broadway St., New Orleans, La., he will
furnish you the complete copies of them.
Trusting this information will be of
service to you, I am,
Yours very truly,
Ellmud
E. S. Smith.
New Orleans, La.
( CONFIDENTIAL )
PTL

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.90)
Jume 13, 1930.
Mr. I. S. Smith,
Eew Crleams.
Lemisiana.
894.72
Dear Sir:
In response to your communication of June 3, 1930, I beg
to imform you that this Department is not interested in ob-
taiming a copy of the Japanese code referred to in former
V
letters reseived from you.
3
Thamking you for your interest in the matter.
Fery truly yours,
David A. Salman
Chief,Bureau of Indexes and Archives.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
ATIONS TO
STATE
.D.c.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to:
IB: 894.727/
June 13, 1330.
Mr. E. S. Smith.
New Orleans,
Louisiana.
Dear Sir:
In response to your communication of Jun 3, 1930, I beg
to inform you that this Department is not interested in ob-
taining a copy of the Japanese code referred to in former
letters received from you.
Thanking you for your interest in the matter,
Very truly yours,
Chief,Bureau of Indexes and Archives.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED
0.9.s.
FEB 26 1931
DIVISION OF
Feb. 23rd, 1931.
New Crleans, La.
Hon. Davia A. Sal on,
Chief of the Bureau of Incexes
and Archives,
894.727/4
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
Since 1929 I have auaressea several commu-
nications to you concerning the Telegraphic Ci-
phers of the Jayanese Government, but have never
heara from you.
I believe that you reccived the syecimen
which I enclosea in my last letter.
Several weeks ago, I heara that tne Japanese
Government nas cffered ne Japanese Governent Cffices
in U. S. large sums (f money to get the Ciphers of
the U. S. Government.
If you will communicate with Mr. J. Momose
who has charge cf tnt Ciph rs cf the Japanese Con-
sulate here, ne will assist you in any way possible.
In my opinion, it is wise to send here your
representative ana have im take the photographs of
the Ciphers of which my friend will loan im in
secret.
Awaiting your further pleasure in the matter,
I am,
Yours very truly,
CONFIL NTIAL
FEB 27.1931

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
Pebruary 27, 1931.
894.727/4
Mr. B. S. Smith,
New Orleans,
Louisiana.
Dear Sir:
wWith reference to your letter of the 23rd instant, you are
informed that under date of October 1, 1929 a reply was sent to
your letter of September 26, 1929, and on June 13, 1930, answer
was made to your letter of June 3. 1930. The latter commumioa-
tien was returned by the Post Office Department, apparently on
account of the inability of the Postmaster of New Orleans to
effect delivery, no street address ever having been given by you
in any of your commanications.
As stated heretofore, the Department is not interested in
obtaining a copy of the code referred to by you.
Very truly yours,
A true copy of
DAVID A. SALYON
the signed orig
1
Chief, Division of Commmications
and Records.
(formerly Bureau of Indexes
and Archives)
DCR ARL:IU

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.92)
D13
New Orleans, La.
Narch 10th,11.
J' 9
Hon. Davic . Salr on.
hief e the Bur
nd Archives,
Department of State,
a. D. e.
894.727/5
Dear Sir:
Referring to my letter of Feb. 3,
1931, I am very much pleased to be able to send
you a picce of the photosrsph of re sirhers.
I trust that my offer will receive
your favourable consideration and that we may heare
from you at an early date.
Yours very truly,
.. S. Smith.
MAR 30 1931
FLD
844.727
2
3
4

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
MMUNICATIONS TO
FARY OF STATE
HINGTON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
WASHINGTON
27 1931
DIVISION OF
Merch 27,1931
Dear Mr Salmon;-
The Postmaster at New Orleans advises
that at 1530 Broadway there resides a Japanese
gentleman named G.Momote, alt. ough his connection
F.W.
with the local Japanese Consulate is not verified.
As for E.S.Smith,the name is unknown to any lett er-
carriers in that vicinity.
This party ,SMITH,is either crazy or
894.727/5
purposely withhol ing an. address by which he can
be located. Until something definite is supplied
as to Smith's real name and address, I can offer no
remedy.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
REOEIVED
JUN 1 1931
aRL
27
New Orleans, La.,
lay 30th, 1931.
Hon. David A. Salmon,
Chief of the Bureau of Indexes
MB
and Archives,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
In Iiarch I wrote .'ou that the Japanese
894.727
Government had offered the Jonan's Govenment Offices
in U. S. large sums of money for the Telegraphic Ci-
phers of the U. S. Government.
Yesterday I heard that they were unxious
to get the U. S. Ciphers with a view to s ying out
the American policy towards Cine, nd to preparing
for the Disarmament Con erence hich would be held in
9
1932.
I am very sorry that I received no an-
swer from  ou about this case; I am afraid you do
not believe me.
For further information, please find
several pictures of the Japanese Ciphers and  ou
will see that these specimens are very valuable.
22nd page of Cipher No. S.
lst page of Cipher No. B.
45th page of Cipher No. .
If cu will communicte with r. J.
Momose, Secrctury of the Consulate in Hew Orleans,
he will give you necessary information,
Awaiting  our further consideration,
I am,
Yours very truly,
. S. Smith.
JUN 1- 1931
FIED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
OF STATE
New Orleans, La.
June 14th, 1931.
on. David A. Salmon,
016 1931
Chief of the Bureau of Indexes
DIVISION OF
and Archives,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.727/7
Dear Sir:
As you know I have addressed several letters
to you concerning the Telegraphic Ciphers of the Japanese
Government, but to my regret never heard from you.
If you have no interest in this matter, it can
not be helped, but please consider the treacherous strat-
agem of the Japanese Government.
It is an opportunity in a thousand, Mr. J.
Momose, who takes care of the Ciphers of the Consulate of
Japan in New Orleans, is in monetary troubles on account
of his long disease.
I think it is wise to make the
most of this opportunity.
I believe that my offer would be worth of con-
sideration.
Please let me hear from you rearding your
plans, I am,
Yours very truly,
E. S. Smith.
JUN85 1931
GFLLI

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
July 16, 1931.
Mr. Bannerman:
You will note that I have now
received a communication from the Japanese
who is supposed to want to sehl to this
Government a copy of the Japanese Government's
code. Please see your memorandum in this
matter of March 27th and let me know whether
any information can be obtained on this man.
Ra.d

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
DAS
New Orleans, La.
July 11th, 1931.
Hon. David A. Sclmon,
Chief of the Bureau of Indexes
and Archives,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Doar Sir:
F
Relative to the TEL GR PHIC COD BOOKS of the
7
Japanese Government, you must have received many com-
munications from Lir. . S. Smith of New Orleans, La.
894.72
But, to OUR regret,  have never heard from you.
I think that  ou have not believe in his suggestion
or have hated a machiavellism.
Now I write to you for proof of his suggestion.
2
As Lir. Smith has explained to  ou in his letters,
the Japanese Foreign Office has been ver. anxious for
8
the telegraphic code books of  our Department. It
is needless to explain why it is anxious for them.
Since it has noised abroad that, at the times of the
Peace Conference and Vashington Naval Conference,
your government had kmown the secret conbination of
of our CODE BOOKS, its efforts has got serious.
Six of the many experts of the Telegraphio Bureau
of the Foreign Office have been engaged in the study
of your code and the goveriment has instructed us
several times to collect the necessary materials for
their study. It intends to finish its study at great
expence. To your surprise, it has offered the staff
of the government offices in U. S. nearly 50.000 for
the copies or pictures of your code books.
For your information, I will tell you how 
8
protect our code books.
The distribution of the
books and documents related to telegraphic dutie
are done through the hands of the special messer ers.
if you keep a careful watch on the movements of he
staff of uur offices in this country, you can find
something. And in our offices we have double-locked
safe for the books. Only the steff in charge know
the conbination of the safe.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Hon. David A. Salmon.
At present we keep several kinds of them, and
one of their specimens are already in your posses-
sion. I have the pictures and developed film of them
with me.
If you are interested in my offer and
send 'our gentlemen to this city, I can help them in
every respect.
We keep new code book which are
thiok, if your gentlemen carry a camera with five
dozens of film, everything turns out all riht.
I can furnish you with pictures and film of the
CODE BOOKS and at the same time our representatives
can take full pictures of the most confidential ones
by my assistence.
I will be at my home every day after 2.30 p.m.,
end your gentlemen can connect me by telephone.
I trust that my offer will receive your con-
sideration and that I may hear from you at the earl-
iest date.
Yours very truly,
G. Momose.
1530 Broadway,
New Orleans, La.
LIOST COIFIDHTIAL

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.93)
111
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
D
i0
9
Tokyo, July 28, 1931.
No. 284.
18
CLASSIPICATION CANCELED
AM..
1.5
Th.12
Date:
MB
Copy sent toWar
Instruction to Tokyo
894.727/9
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
BD
I have the honor to state that the publica-
tion by the Osaka Mainichi and the Tokyo Nichi Nichi,
two of the most influential newspapers in Japan, of
sensational artioles regarding the disclosures made
in Herbert O. Yardley's book, "The Black Chamber,*
has caused considerable sensation in certain quarters
in Japan.
ACC.
11.
There are tranamitted herewith translations of
statements

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
心
- 2 -
statements made by various persons, in regard to the
decoding of Japan's telegrams during the Washington Con-
ference, which have appeared in the Japanese press. It
will be noted that Baron Ikeda, who in one of the state-
ments hereto appended takes the authorities to task, was
one of the foremost critics of the present government in
the debates over the London Treaty during the past session
of the Diet. He seems to lose no opportunity further to
embarrass Baron Shidehara. In these statements no little
criticism is made of the "breach of good faith" committed
by the United States in decoding confidential telegrams,
but the Japanese authorities concerned receive still
stronger censure for their failure to take proper pre-
cautions to preserve the secrecy of the messages. Baron
Shidehara, who was the Japanese Ambassador in Washington
at the time of the Washington conference, seems to bear
the brunt of the oriticism, probably because of political
reasons and because of animus on account of his much
criticised conoiliatory foreign policy.
2-7/.
There are also enolosed comments whioh have appeared
on the subject in English language newspapers.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Ehis Auill
1MB
4 Carban Copion
Edwin L. Neville,
Received
Counselor of Embassy.
icopy
Enclosures:
1. Translation of artiole from Tokyo Niohi Niohi of
July 22, 1931.
2. Clipping from Japan Advertiser of July 19, 1931.
3.
Chronicle of
4.
5.
Osaka Mainichi of
6.
Japan Times of July 22, 1931.
7.
23,
e
Embassy File No. 110.2
WTT/hln

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
Rclosuro No.
284
P No.
mericA
THE U ESTION OF DISCLOSURE
10y.
OF JAPAN'S CIPIER TELEGRAIS.
Tokyo NICHI NICHI, July 22, 1951.
i sreat sensation nus seun roused i i termational
diploatic and otaer ci cl by te publicution of whut
is known as "The ierican Bluck hu ber," the Work of
Ar. Herbert o. Yuruley, by which it is di elosei thut
the United States Government hus steulthily trunsluted
Japun's diplo utic coridential cipher tele rans. Some
persons censure the United Stutes Governient for its
betrayal of fith i. its ucti .. Jortain otnr perso-
ages exoress the view that he Ja ese  thoritius cen-
cerned should be reprinundel fo leck of caution und
neglect of duty on their purt nd thut inquiries should
be made to ascertain where th rusp nsibi ity lies.
The following re views expressed in various
quarters:
Opinion of a ember of the House of Peers.
The iselosure of this brouch of fuith co mitted
by the United States Govern ent ut the ti le of the
Washington conference will uoubtless serve as a valu-
able lesson fo the future to Jupun in participuting in
international confererces. Now thu. such a blunder wa
caused by the lack of caution and negligence of duty
on the part of Jupanese diplomatic officials, it is but
natural that a voice would be raised to start investiga-
tions in order to make clear where the responsibility
lies. Prior to the opening of the Washington Conference
the United States Governnent caused ir. Yardley to con-
centrate his whole energy for two years upon the decoding
of Japan's cipher telegrams. The fact that the Japanese
Embassy at Washington was utterly unaware or such an
undertaking on merica's part goes to show that the
Embussy authorities were negligent. In the Department
of Foreign ffairs in Tokyo the view is expressed that
such breach of faith is a national disgrace of the
United States. It is a  onder that the Foreign Office
authorities entertain such an irresponsible idea, as
though they themselves were totally free from responsi-
bility. The question arises why the Department of
Foreign Affairs did not alter its ciphers shortly before
the opening of the Washington Conferenoe. A noteworthy
fact is that a cipher telegram sent by Count Uchida, the
then Minister for Foreign Affairs, to Baron Hayashi, the
Japanese Ambassador in London, at the time of the Wash-
ington Conference was not disclosed and translated by
Great Britain but that a cipher telegram transmitted
from Baron Hayashi to Baron Shidehara, the then Japanese
Ambassador in Washington, was disclosed and translated
by the United States authorities. For this Baron Shi-
dehara must be held responsible. Some oritios argue
that both Count Uchida and the late Admiral visoount Kato,
the head of the Japanese delegates to the Washington con-
ference, should be reponsible. As contended above, Count
Uchida

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Uchida and Admiral Kato may not be perfectly free from
responsibility. Ciper telegrams fron Count Uchida ad-
dressed to dmiral Kato were forwarded to and delivered
at the Japanese abassy in Washington. The matter of
the deciphering of cipher telegrans s an ffair that
occurred within the limits of the United States and
accordingly Baron Shideharu, who was in charge of the
Japanese mbassy in Washi ton t e tie anu who is
now Minister for Foreign ffuirs, must bear the resp n-
sibility.
Regarding this affair there are three points to be
noted. The first is that the deciphering of Japanese
cipher telegraas occurred in the United States. The
second is that accordi..: to "The merican Bl ck ohumber"
it is seen that so far as the wushington Jonference was
concerned the United States Goveriment deci hered the
whole of Japun's cipher telegrans throughout the Wash-
ington Conference while cipher telegrans of other
countries which participated in the conference were all
left untouched.The third is that the cuestion of dis-
closure was related to communic tion business only.
Judging from the above three peints, Baron Shide-
hara, now the Minister or oreign ffuirs, ust ap-
parently be held responsible. the Depurt lent of ereign
affairs in Tokyo may contend that such a question need
not be taken up by Japun ulone because cipher telegrans
of other countries were ecually disclosed. However, in-
sofar as the Washi gton Jonference was concerned, Japan's
cipher telegrams only were uiscl sed by the United States
authorities, while no such breath of faith wcs conmitted
by Great Britain. at all events, the luck of caution and
neglect of duty on Japan's part are i.excusable.
Opinion of the Japanese vepartment of Foreign ffairs.
The authorities of the Department of Foreign .ffuirs
stated yesterday (July lst) that the fact that Japan's
cipher telegrams were decoded by the United Stutes authori-
ties at the ti ie of the ashington Conference was due to
failure of the Japanese Governnent to offect a change in
ciphers oocasionally. However, the United States, which
took the initiative and convened the Washington Conference,
has dared to disclose and trunslate confidential cipher
telegrams whioh were admitted in international negotiations.
This was a breach of faith and a dishonor on the part of
the United States. This disgraceful action has just been
revealed to the world by the publication of Mr. Yardley's
book. At the time of the Washington Conference ir. Yard-
ley visited the Japanese Inbassy in Washington and stated
that Japan's cipher telegrams were all deciphered and then
proposed to sell the translations. l.ir. Yardley is such a
man. The publication of his work at this time may be due
to his displeasure with the United States Government,
which has recently released him from office, and may also
be for the purpose of self-advertising.
A Statement

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
a Statement of a High ofricer of the Japanese Navy.
It is a wonder that uven in the United States, hich
is a country of liberty and freedon, the publicution of
"The merican Black humber" has been permitted by the
authorities concerned. Wireless telegraphy is broadcast,
and if electric waves can be properly adjusted messages
can be received at any place the .orlu over. Juch being
the case, the Jupanese Navy has taken great trouble to
preserve the seorecy of wireless t legrams. so etimes
the Jupanese uvy exereises a suries or mnoeuyres ith-
out using wireless telegra hy t ll.
The publication of Mr. Yurdley 's work is related to
the Wushih ts e nee.t tht time i strueti ns
and ot or conriiti i oe unie ti fre. the Jupaese
Government vere trunsmi tueu by moans or ordiry wires
through the medium of the maeriean uuthorities. If Jupn's
cipher tele ruls were iisclosed by  third purty, such us
the 'Black Jhanber,' it is out of qlestion to maintuin the
secrecy of cipher telegruas in the United Stutes. Nothing
can be more surprising th-n this. The trunslations of
Japan's cipher tele ruis have not yet been minutely studied
but the mur nuiber of tele ruis sunt from Japun coineide
with the translutions. If such isgraceful uction hus been
committed by a stute orgun, this is reully i atter of
profound re gret. In ut re i. ternati n 1 conf renees,
Japan shoulu exercise rent caution.
 Statement of the Jup nese ray.
The authorities of the Jap nese ar my ure greatly
astonished to learn by a newspuper report thut the United
States has disclosed und translated Jupun's cipher tele-
grans at the time of the Washington Conference. The
Japanese Foreign Office has committed a serious blunder
in that it iia not alter ciphers just prior to the open-
ing of the Washington conference. The fact that the
Foreign Office failed to alter ciphers und unsuspectingly
participated in the Washington Jonference shows that it
sadly lacked caution. In view of the fact that the
international disarmament conference is to be convened in
Europe next year, the Japunese rmy should take due caution
so as not to imitate the blunder committed by the Foreign
Office. As soon as details of the 'Black Chamber' affair
are made known, the rmy will offer advice to the Foreign
office.
A Statement of Baron Nagayasu Ikeda, a Member
of the Kaseikai group in the House of Peers.
At the time of the London Disarmament Conference
a report was oirculated that the United States was re-
markably active behind the curtain. From the viewpoint
of international good faith, it is a serious matter here
for the United States authorities to have decoded Japan's
telegrams during the Washington Conference. In oonsequence
Japan cannot attend international conferenoes abroad with-
out

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
out due caution and considerution. There ill be no
alternative for Japan but to convene international
conferences at Tokyo in the future. If the power
which convenes an international conference is informed
of Japan's instructions before its delegation receives
them, there would be no necessity ror Jupun to send its
delegates t the conferonce. I rut re intern tional
conferences, Ja n's dele ution should merely report
the proceedings of liseussion to the home governient
and refruin fre sk ng the sovern vent for instruetions.
The question then arises who shoulu be held re-
sponsible for the bluder conmitted. The Japunese
authorities ure reully extremely foolish. at the next
session of the Iaperial siet a warning shonld be iven
the Govern ent. In view of the opunin of n ther
internationul conference at Goneva next yeur, the
Government should be uestioned as to what meuns it
will adopt to preserve secrecy during the coming con-
ference.
* * * * * * *

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, July 19, 1931
Enclosure o.2
284
Despat
Prom American Embassy
Tokyo.
YARDLEY BOOK STIRS
OFFICIALS' INTEREST
Author Asserts American De-
coded Japanese Cables During
Washington Conference
Considerable interest. not to say a
mild sensation. has been aroused in
military and naval circles here by the
arrival of copies of the book. The
Amcrican Black Chamber. by Herbert
O. Yardley. former chief of the code
deciphering section of the Information
Bureau of the American War Depart-
ment. according to the Asahi. This
bock alleges that United States offi-
cials succet ded in deciphering the sec-
ret codes of the powers attending the
Washington Conference. while the con-
ference was in session, and held an ex-
tremely advantageous position in the
negotiations as a result.
The book asserts that this was partic-
ularly valuable to the American off
cials in their dealings with Japan's rep-
resentatives. It says the late Ad-
miral Viscount Tomosaburo Kato. the
chief delegate, asked for specific in-
structions on whether or not he should
make a concession and agree to 5-5-3
ratio. giving Japan 60 per cent strength.
or hold out for a 10-10-7 ratio. The
answer. which was to accept the 60
per cent ratio if necessary, according
to the book was decoded. and Americ
naturally held out until Japan accepted
the smaller ratio.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
The Japan Chroniole
DesphtchNo
284
Kobe, Sunday, July 19, 199rp 
ba sy
GIVING IT ALL AWAY
At the Conference, the Japanese dele-
gates insisted at first on a 70 per cent.
ratio to America in the strength of capital
ships, but when Admiral Kato, the head
WHY JAPAN SUFFERED A DEFEAT
delegates saw that Japan's claim was
AT WASHINGTON
not likely to be accepted, the dispatched
a code telegram to Tokyo asking whether
the Government had no objection to a 60
A QUEER STORY
per cent. ratio. This code telegram was
duly deciphered by Mr. Yardely and the
American Government was immediately
The book entitled "The American
put in possession of the information. By
Black Chamber," recently published in
this means, the American Government
America, by Mr. Herbert O. Yardley who
knew that Japan's attitude on the ratio
was formerly connected with the American
question was not very strong, and this
War Department, is beginning to attract
knoweldge enabled it to press its point
considerable attention in this country.
more stoutly. with the result that Japan
According to the Mainichi. the book
finally conceded to America's point of
exposes the crafty methods used by the
view.
American Government at the three dis-
The revelations of these facts in his
armament conferences hitherto held—the
book are said to be the result of the
Washington Conference of 1920 in parti-
estrangement that has recently arisen be-
cular—in deciphering secret code tele-
tween Mr. Yardley and the American War
grams that passed between the delegates
Department, which he accordingly left to
of the Powers and their respective home
take up a professorial post in the North-
Government. It is clear from the book
Western University.
that all the secret code telegrams ex-
The Mainichi says that if the facts con-
changed between the Japanese delegates
tained in the book are well-founded, it
and the Tokyo Government were de-
speaks little for the Japanese Foreign
ciphered and the information secured in
Office authorities at the time. The
this way exploited by the American Gov-
Japanese military and naval authorities
ernment in its favour and against
bought copies of the book through the
Japan's interests. The author of the book
military and naval attachés at the Japan-
was formerly the chief of the section
ese Embassy in Washington, and are
charged with deciphering code telegrams
startled at the remarkable facts revealed.
within the War Department of America.
The book throws much light on the cause
Prior to the opening of the Washington
of many setbacks which Japan's policy
Conference, says the Mainichi, Mr.
at the Washington Conference reached.
Yardley provided a secref roōm in a
It is said that a section of the Peers are
suburb of Washington at the request of
being stirred to activity. in view of the
the American War Department and his
grave issues involved.
ten months' close study of the code tele-
grams of many Governments was reward-
ed by his mastery of them. Since then,
his services in this special line have been
much prized by the War Department.
When the Washington Conference was
called, the American Government entrust-
ed to him the task of deciphering all
secret code telegrams exchanged between
the delegates of the Powers and their
home Governments. This posted that
Government up in the attitude of all the
Governments with which it had to deal
at the Conference.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
knolosure No.
284
Despatcr. No.
The Japan Chroniole,
Prom Am:   an Embasy
Kobe, Sunday, July 19. 19B1.
Tokyo.
Tie Mainichi tells a story, translated
eisewhere, of the systematic decipherment
by the Washington Government of diplo-
matic code messages. Important message;
the habitually sent in code. and the pre-
caution invites the effort to defeat it. It
is well known that such things do happen.
but one would not willingly believe that
in such circumstances as those of the
Washington Conference decipherment
would be practised in this systematic man-
ner. It is so much like steaming open
people's letters—a thing which is distinct-
ly not done. It is easy to make an un-
decipherable code, but to save trouble in
the decoding even very secret messages
are entrusted to systems which are not
quite cast-iron. If the story related by
the Mainichi is correct, one cannot form
any high opinion of the American official
who has given the show away, and it
would be strange if the law could not
get its tentacles round him.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
5
Enclosure No.
284
The Osaka Malnichl,
Embasay
19
Osake. Thursday, July , 1b31.
Did America Know Nippon Secret
Code During Washington Parley?
REVELATION MADE BY EX-U.S. ARMY OFFICER
Author of 'The American Black Chamber' Alleges State
Department Secured All Confidential
Messages Sent to Delegates
A startling revelation which, it substantiated, will betray the Foreign
Office's lack of intelligence and precaution during the Washinglon Con-
lerence of 1921-22, has recently been bared in America by Prof. Herbert
O. Yardley, of Northwestern University, and former code-decipherer in the
U.S. War Department.
Prof. Yardley in his The American Black Chamber alleges that he
as War Department's code-decipherer, was able to read all the coded cable-
grams exchanged between the Powers' delegates to the Washington Con-
terence and their respective home governments, particularly Japan's which
enabled Washington to know beforehand what the Powers had up their
sleeves. with relerence to the capital ship quota.
Result Stands Out
Whether his allegation is true or
For instance, he declares, the late
not, the fact remains that Japan,
Admiral Viscount Tomosaburo Kato.
which demanded from the first a 7o
then Japan's chief delegate, who
stubborniy stood pat on Japan's 7o
per cent. ratio, had to acquiesce in
per cent. capital ship quota, was per-
to a 6o per cent. ratio, much against
suaded into giving in to 6o per cent.
her wishes, by the pressure brought
in consideration of the certainty that
to bear upon her.
further adhesion would end the con-
In view of the fact that the third
ference in rupture.
disarmament conference purporting
chose to bare a State secret, is said
The reason why Prof. Yardley
to consider the limitation of land,
to have been motivated by his even-
water and air forces, is slated to be
tual clash with the American War
convened at Geneva next February,
authorities, which is said to have
the disclosure has been causing much
made him leave the government ser-
vice and seek a lecture platform at
sensation in Europe and America,
Northwestern University.
and to a lesser degree in Japan.
Anxious to Read Book
Prof. Yardley, it is alleged in his
The War and Navy Offices, alarm-
book, worked for 10 months, on the
ed at the disclosure, have instruct-
coded telegrams exchanged between
ed military and naval attaches in
the Powers' Embassles and their
Washington to send several copies
of the book. Whether the disclosure
home governments, prior to the
is true or not, the matter has sery-
Washington Conference, behind lock-
ed to brace up the War and Navy
ed doors in a guarded house on the
authorities, who are determined to
outskirts of Washington, D.C., upon
enter the proposed Geneva Confer-
the instruetions of the American
ence with ail the precaution in the
ed in reading all the coded telegrams,
Government.
He further alleges that he succeed-
is known to be watching the develop-
world.
A faction in the House of Peers
which kept trans-Atlantic and trans-
ments with keen interest.
Pacific cables hot for some time,
which went a long way toward enabl-
ing the State Department to know
beforehand exactly how far the
Powers could go and how far they
would give in.
Handled Like Babies
Because it knew the Powers like
 book, the book says, Washington
was able to handle the Powers'dele-
gates as though they were babies.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
284
Despato
The Japan Times
PrOE
Smbasey
Tokyo, Hednesday, July
22, 1931
YARDLEY'S BOOK
"The telegrams sent from Count
Uchida, the then Foreign Minister,
to Baron Hayashi, the then Japa-
nese Ambassador at London, were
CAUSES SENSATION
not disclosed in London, but when
these telegrams were transmitted to
Baron Shidehara at Washington,
IN OFFICIAL CIRCLES
these were all deciphered by an
American official.
For this Baron Shidehara should
certainly be held responsible."
Urges Meeting in Tokyo
Foreign Minister Scored
Baron Choko Ikeda of the Koseikal
For Leakage in Diplo-
of the Upper House thinks that there
will be no other way for Japan than
matic Telegrams
to have all future international con-
ferences held in Tokyo if Japan's in-
structions to her delegates are liable
CODE EASILY DECIPHERED
to be deciphered by other countries.
"The present Cabinet will have to
take precautionary measures for the
Baron Ikeda Urges All Future
arms conference to be held next year
International Conferences
at Geneva," said the Baro
A high naval officer sald
Be Held in Tokyo
"Japan's instructions and other
secret messages were all sent by
Translations of a part of "The
wire to be delivered from the tele-
American Black Chamber" by H. O.
graph office at Washington. If it is
Yardley, revealing that Japan's diplo-
true that these telegrams were all
matio telegrams in private code were
disclosed in the United States, no
stolen and deciphered by the author
secrecy can be kept in communica-
ticns in that country. It is really
for the United States Government
surprising. We shall haye to be very
during the Washington Conference,
careful in future."
which were published in the Tokyo
Nichi Nichi a few days ago, have
According to military observers,
the Foreign Office should have
caused a serious sensation among
changed its code entirely before the
various circles here, some observers
Washington Conference. They de-
going so far as to hold Foreign Min-
clare that the code of the Foreign
ister Baron Shidehara, who was then
Offce is very simple in construction
the Japanese Ambassador at Wa-
and can be deciphered easily.
shington, responsible for negligence.
In this connection a well-informed
observer in the House of Peers is
quoted as saying:
"The Japanese Embassy at Wa-
shington did not know that Mr.
Yardley had been studying our pri-
vate code for two years before the
Washington Conference.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japen Times,
Prom Anrlcan Embaaby
Tokyo, Thursday, July 23.
1931.
1kyo.
Counterbalancing the supposi-
AMERICAN ESPIONAGE
tion that the United States had an
advantage over the other nations
Whatever milk may have becn
in holding the conference in
spilt in the way of espionage of
Washington, the fact should not
the Japanese secret code during
be ignored that she had, in a way,
the Washington Conference, there
the most at stake. The conference
is little sense in the hue and cry
was called by America, the re-
which is being raised in soine
sponsibility of success or failure
quarters now, following the re-
was morally hers. In view of the
velations which appeared in fer-
beneficial results of the Washing-
bert O. Yardtey's book, The Amer-
ton Treaty the espinnage to which
ican Black Chamber. About all
Mr. Yardley's book refers should
that can be said is that the For-
be regarded as espionage for the
eign Office officials were ontwitted
sake of international disarmament
by the Americans, and that espion-
and peace, a view point which
age of secret codes is, we st!ppose,
should take from the revelations
all a part and parcel of the game
much of their sting for Japanese.
of diplomacy. Indeed, if the cus.
Indeed the fact that the Japanese
tom of spying on confidential
communications between the For-
messages were not prevalent, what
(ign Office and the delegates were
would be the raison d'etre of sec-
an open book to the Americans,
ret codes. The use of a code
may have furthered the rapidity of
nore or less presupposes the prac-
the negotiations and gone far to
tice of espionage, and being thus
convince the American delegates
a game of wits, about all that one
of the limits to which Japan
can do is to criticise the Foreign
would go in the matter of conces-
Offce rather than rail against the
sions in naval power.
Americans for scoring against our
Thus, little complaint can be
cwn team.
made of the use of the knowledge
Taking it for granted that trying
which the United States had at her
to decipher the other nation's
command
through
Yardley's
code is part of the game, the fact
efforts; although the method of
remains, however, that the coun-
acquiring it will in the future,
try in which an international con-
prove to be anachronistic. But
ference is held has some
that day is yet far away. When
advantage over the other partici-
secrecy is necessary even in busi-
pating nations. Thus even if
ness correspondencc, how much
Japan had taken along code ex-
more will it be regarded so in in-
perts they would have had no
ternational affairs. Nor may we
chance to operate against the
forget the situation just before and
American representatives who
during the Washington Confer-
were in their own capital; or
ence. The principal concern of
against the British, since the send-
the United States was to put an
ing of all messages would be
end to the naval rivairy between
through American hands. Hence
Japan and herself. Friction in
comes a suggestion from Baron
Siberia and in China had aggra-
Ikeda of the House of Peers that
vated the situation, and Japun—
if such practices are allowed.
however ridiculous it may sound
Japan would have to insist that all
today-was sincerely regarded by
international parleys in which she
the Americans as a menace. In a
was to participate, would have to
way, therefore, the conference was
be held in Japan. This sounds to us
begun in a belligerent atmo-
like a redectio ad absurdunu. The
sphere, and the United States kept
only other alternative would be,
in full operation a part of her
we suppose, to hold such confer-
government system which was a
ences on the moon with beam
legacy of the Great War which
wirclees communication to
bad only recemily been concluded.
capital which could not be inter-
cepted on the way.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.91)
THE
A a to
26 1981.
CLASSIFICATIONCANCE
The Honorable
The Aoting Seoretary of War.
89
Sir:
94.727/
There is enelosed herewith, for your striotly
eemfidential information, a copy of a confidential
dempatah from the American Embassy at Tokyo relating to
6
the publioation in Japan of senvational articles regard-
ing the diselosures mede in Herbert 0. Yardley's book,
"The Bleek Chamber".
This Department would appreeiate having an expres-
siom of the views ef the War Department in this matter.
Very truly yours,
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Eselesure:
Aoting Secretary of State.
Frem mbassy.
, 9.
A true copy of
CB
the signed prig-
Rum
inaM
A.1981.
FR: RSM: RJL
TE
26,
m.m.H.
0/24/31

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFICATION CANCELED
HNowliu/Nerx Date://--8-6-1
Angust 28 1981.
fmy.
o.158
894.727/9
The Honorable
W. Cameron Forbes,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of the Embassy's
confidential despatch No. 284, of date July 38, 1931,
on the subjeot of the publication in Japan of
sensatiemml artieles regarding the disclosures mmde in
Herbert O. Yardley's book, "The Black Chamber".
The Department desires to be kept fully infermed
in regard to any further developments in this matter.
Very truly yours,
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Aoting Secretary of State.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal M
num.
330.H.
GR
Aug.26, 1951

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
RBCEIVED
WAR DEPARTMENT
SEP 1- 1931
WASHINGTON. D. C.
RT
2
894.727
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
In reply to your letter of August 26, 1931 (FE 894.727),
it is of record in the War Department that a branch office of the then
Military Intelligence Department was organized, opened and maintained
8
in Now York City from about October lst, 19l9, until October 3lst, 1929,
6
for the purpose of the "permanent organization for code and cipher in-
4.727/1
vestigation and attack". Mr. Yardley, then a Captain, later Major, in
the National Army was in charge of that office.
Under date of May 16, 1919, the plan for the establishment of
an office for this purpose was submitted to the Chief of Staff for ap-
proval, and carried with it a statement that "the Acting Secretary of
State has been consulted and concurs in the proposed plan". The original
copy of this plan shows the approval by the then Chief of Staff, under
date of May 19, 1919, and a brown penc1l "0.K." with the initials "F.L.P."
(F. L. Polk, Aoting Secretary of State). This plan required a joint con-
tribution by the State and War Departments for its maintenance and opera-
tion. During the period from July 15, 1919, until October 31, 1929, the
Department of State contributed towards this work approximately $230,404.
Contributions from the War Department did not begin until June 30, l921.
Between that date and October 31, l929, the War Department contributed
$98,808.49. On October 31, 1929, the Department of State terminated its
further participation in the matter, thereby necessitating the closing
of the New York office and the discharge of all civilian personnel,
including Mr. Yardley.
Mr. Yardley was discharged as a Major, National Army, in October
1919, and in l92l accepted a commission as a Major in the Officers Reserve
Corps. His service with the Military Intelligence Division after the ter-
mination of his war comission in l919 was as a civilian. He resigned
his reserve commission in April l931.
It may be stated that none of Mr. Yardley's manuscripts was
over submitted to the War Department for approval prior to publication.
The objective of the War Department in the establishment of the
offiee in New York was the continuation of War Department training in
cryptanalysis.
SECRET
DOD Dira Be00.9 Sapt. 27, 1958

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
From the viewpoint of the War Department, the main reason
for retaining this activity after the war ended was to assure a
continuity of training in this technically difficult work. After
peace had been declared, the information furnished by the solved code
messages ceased to be of value to the War Department but continued to
be of particular interest to the Department of State.
Mr. Chief Justice Hughes was Secretary of State during a
portion of the time when Mr. Yardley was carrying on these activities
in New York, and Mr. Yardley has a letter signed by Secretary Hughes
commending him for the information he gave the Department of State
during the first International Arms Conference held in Washington.
Sincerely yours,
Acting Seoretary of War.
SECRET
DECLASSIFIED
DOD D:FB200.9 S0pt. 27, 1958
1gonolo2 Dato 11/18/64
NM by

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
RECO
EMBASSY OF THE
UNUTEDSTATES OF AMERICA
7A8
No, 377.
6
COM.
NOV23/31
CLASSIFICATION CANCELED
Authority:len
By:
F
4.727
894.727/11
STATE
UEC 10 1931
.R
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
9
No. 284 of/July 28, 1931, and to the Department's con-
/9
fidential instruotion No. 158 or August 26, 1931, in
regard to the publication in Japan of artioles relating
to the disolosures made in Herbert O. Yardley's book,
"The Blaok Chamber".
1/.
I have the honor herewith to transmit translations
from a series of artioles appearing from Ootober 6, to
October

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Ootober 8, 1931, in the YOMIURI SHIMBUN, a second rate
and sensational daily newspaper of Tokyo, in regard to
the Yardley disclosures.
These articles, it should be noted, were written
by an employee of the Japan Wireless Telegraph Company.
They are obviously propaganda in favor of the transmission
of messages by wireless telegraph, and were quite likely
inspired by officials of the company. They do, however,
reflect to a conslderable extent the reaction of the
Japanese publio to the disclosures made in Yardley's
book.
The "Blaok Chamber" quite evidently made a great
impression in Japan. I often hear reference made to it
in conversation with various classes of Japanese. According
to the publishers of the Japanese edition, more than 40,000
copies have been sold. It remains a best seller at the
present time.
I am, Sir,
Respectfully yours,
W. Cameron Forbes,
Ambassador.
3
inolosure:
Translation of newspaper articles.
Embassy's File No. ll0.2
WTT/SR
Carbon Coples
Received F
3 carbone deetroyed
7-18-34met

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure Nd.
Despaton No.
377
Translations.
yrom American Bmbasoy
Tokyo.
INTERNATIONAL CONTEST ON COMMUNICATIONS.
By: Genkichi Shiraishi,
Japan Wireless Telegraph Company.
Yomiuri Shimbun,
October 6, 1931.
The Washington Conference of 192l-l922 proved to be
an occasion on which Japan was forced into a pitfall by
an artful strategm jointly prepared by China and the United
States, so far as the questions in the Far East went. To
put it straightforwardly, the defeat of Japan on that
occasion formed, in my opinion, the principal cause of
China's present intransigence against Japan. While this
unpleasant memory was still alive in our mind, it was
shockingly brought to our knowledge that an unscrupulous
American, Yardley by name, succeeded, under instructions
from the Republican authorities, in deciphering Japan's
confidential messages addressed to her delegate. His
writings on this partioular topic, citing instances one
by one, have naturally pricked the nerves of the people
in Japan.
There are some people among us who may have been
alarmed at the reported organization of the so-called
Blaok Chamber in the United States Government which
constantly claims to be the sole agent combatting the
so termed "secret diplomaoy". There may be some among
us who feel inolined to applaud the exoeptional skill
of Yardley in the theft and decipher of offioial messages
between

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
between the Imperial Government and its delegate at
Washington, but most of us are indignantly staggered
at the too easy-going ways of our Foreign Office au-
thorities. We are all, without exception, alarmed
and astonished at the interception of our confidential
messages by the United States Government. These
messages were transmitted over the cable lines, via the
Bonin Islands, in possession of the American Commercial
Pacific Cable Company. We in Japan uniformly feel dis-
posed to accuse the Company of its bad faith. Some are
ao angry as to propose the indiotment of the United
States and her Government.
As to whether or not the decipher b. stealing of
official messages should be, in the case of Yardley,
allowable from the viewpoint of international justice,
no one will admit. It is expressly stipulated in
Article 2 and Article 7 of the International Telegraphio
Treaty that, " The Contracting Parties shall take all
necessary steps to guarantee the secrecy and prompt
delivery of messages", and further that, "The Contracting
Parties shall have no power to interrupt the delivery of
messages, except in the case of private communication,
even though messages may interfere with their safety,
order, or may be injurious to their laws and moral life".
Neither stipulations nor words are found in the Treaty,
that may be taken as empowering one Government or its
authorities to press other Governments or their authori-
ties to show deciphered official messages for whatever
reasons or in whatever ciroumstances. Even in the oase
of

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
of private messages in cipher, translations cannot be
required except through the prescribed procedure or
formalities. It is distinctly an act of gross in-
justice to decipher by interception offioial messages
between any Government and its representative for one's
own exclusive interest. although the United States is
not a member to the International Telegraphic Treaty,
her Government has manifested its intention, in all
matters relating to general business, to observe that
treaty.
All telegraphio companies in the United States
have declared that they shall c nduct their business in
international communications in conformity with their
own rules. It is not a mistake to contend that the
decipher by interception of messages and the publication
in writing of
secrets established constitute violations
of international law.
However, a question arises as to what authority or
dignity has international law before the pressing and
vital necessity of a nation or state.
Ve have not the
least idea of our own state, Japan. It seems fron the
Black Chamber affairs that diplomats in Europe and even
diplomats of the United States, who should reasonably
be regarded as of the European sohool, are all in the
habit of proteoting maohiavellian and artful manipula-
tions. They oonsider it customary and established usages
in the international community since centuries past to
interoept or steal other Governments' official messages,
even though these may be confidential, for decipher.
This is neither more nor less than child's play. If
they assert that they have never stolen any offioial
messages, how singularly awkward they will appear. If
they

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
they were amateurs in business of such a sort, they could
reasonably be dismissed from t he charge. Otherwise, how
stupid and foolish it is of us to be shocked at the stealthy
decipher of confidential messages.
We must not be alarmed
at such a triffling practioe. We have, notwithstanding,
to take note carefully of the bold mentality of the man,
who was charged with the interception, to divulge the
secret at a time short of ten years, and of the indul-
gence with which the authorities in power treat the
perfidious act. We call general attention to the moral
disposition, because it is peculiarly suggestive of
Yankeeism. More plainly, no Government authorities
except in the United States are gifted with courage
of unusual desoription. Even though a strong protest
were lodged with the United States Government, it would
be no more effective labour than pouring water upon
frogs, because that Government is an organized body of
artful, tried, seasoned, and profoundly experienced men.
It would be a futile labour of fools. Any protest against
such an organization becomes idiots only, and should be
cast aside by men consistently advocating gentlemanly
foreign policy. We have, in our opinion, no other re-
course than to extol the success of Yardley in an extra-
ordinary triok with a foroed and bitter smile.
Be it what it may, we in Japan have no other means
of communication with abroad than our cables owned by
foreign corporations. The offioial messages under dis-
cussion were transmitted over oable lines, the so-called
B.N. route, of the Amerioan Commercial Pacific Cable
Company. The marked development of international wire-
less communications in Japan has caused intense oompeti-
tion

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
tion with cable lines without publio knowledge, so that
a rumour has come to be ciroulated to the effeot that
messages by wire apparatus are unreliable, imperfeot,and
apt to be intercepted or stolen. The Black Chamber trick
brought to the general notice of the world by Yardley
at this juncture has drawn publio attention to the
probable theft of business messages or military com-
munications in war time. Hence, the question is asked
as to whether wireless communications are more likely
to be stolen than cable messages are.
Yomiuri Shimbun,
Ootober 7th.
Stealth and decipher of telegraphio messages is by
no means so easy as it appears. It required much labour
to find some means to steal first and then to make out
the sense concealed. There are three methods of stealing.
The first is, as in the case of Yardley, the stealing
through Government organs; the second is the theft by
operators by taking copies, and the third is the theft
in the real sense by men other than operators.
Different from private communications, official
messages are legally exempt from censors exoept through
the preseribed formalities and exoept in the case of
threatening emergencies or in case diplomatic relations
are broken off. No communications even in cipher are
under any limitation, so that there is no means of
redress for the wrong done. There 1s no justification
for suoh gross performances. Let a strong protest be
lodged,

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
lodged, and it oannot be satisfied, because deoipher
by stealing is perpetrated for the necessity of safety.
This argument is well established by the demonstrated
Black Chamber practice. Diplomatic officers of the
Imperial Japanese Government are certainly an exception
of the contemptible art, they are above such a vice,
beoause they are exceptionally honest and honourable.
But diplomatic officers of ther Governments look on
breaking down official messages bearing the stamp "con-
fidential" as a long established usage in the inter-
national community but concealed from the innocent
public. They are assiduous and unsparing laborers in
their efforts to get possession of official messages
by all possible means, ho.ever/ objectionable such
means may be.
The theft by operators, availing themselves of
duties entrusted, is perhaps the most easy; the easiest
of all means. It must be recalled in this oonnection
that officers in espionage servioe made themselves
obedient and skilful telegraph operators in order to
accomplish a very important role during the World War.
This established fact shows that decipher by stealing
of confidential messages is beyond effective control.
Accordingly, provisions for prevention and punishment
are rigorous throughout the world.
The third case, that is, stealing messages in the
course of telegraphio operation, without the knowledge
of communioations officers in oharge, required parti-
oular skill and erperience. Nevertheless, this must be
a

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
a trying dishonesty calling for unusual patience.
Especial skill is a requisite. The question, which
is more easy to interoept, cable or wireless messages,
refers to the third case. Which is more easy to inter-
cept? Men without the practical knowledge of wireless
theory will reply that it is wireless messages.
They
will cite the instance of radio earphone because un-
pleasant sounds are audible. We have to see whether
wireless messages are so easy as they represent to be.
Quite recently a certain popular paper in Tokyo
had a contention that, although wireless communications are
easy to intercept, messages over cable lines can well be
kept secret, but this shows how backward is the writer
in his knowledge of modern sciences. If I am allowed
to guess at the truth of the contention, it should be
understood to be an indication of propaganda started by
cable oompanies whose business has begun to show marked
decline before the steady growth of wireless communications.
Uneasiness about decipher by stealing or interception
from observing ripples in a pond disturbed by a small
stone is only based on lack of knowledge relative to
the beam system. This system of wireless communications
may be likened to the headlight of motoroars. Eleotrio
waves can be sent forth in a definite direction within
the angle of 9 to lo degrees, so that messages broadcast
by this system can in no way be interoepted in localities
outside the soope of the straight line canneoting any two
partioular wireless stations.
Yomiuri Shimbun,

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
b-
Yomiuri Shimbun,
October 8th.
It is to be borne in mind that discordant sounds
audible in the radio ear-phone are caused by messages of
the intermediate wave length broadcast from coasting ships
and that they are by no means connected with waves for
distant international communications.
According to the resolution carried at the International
Wireless Teohnical Advisory Conference in 1929, these are
five descriptions of wave length.
Super short wave length.
Below l0 metres.
Short wave length.
10-50 metres.
Intermediate wave length
50-200 metres.
Moderate wave length.
200-3,000 metres.
Extensive wave length.
Above 3,O00 metres.
of these five descriptions, short and extensive wave lengths
are used in international communications, while the moderate
wave length is used in the ordinary radio apparatus. It may
now be clear that international messages cannot be deteoted by
the ordinary radio apparatus. This is also the case with the
short wave length. Thanks to the advance in technical skill,
wireless apparatus of elaborate workmanship are now turned
out. Consequently, difference in separable wave lengths is
being gradually limited. With the extensive wave length for
international messages, they oan be effectively separated,
provided there is difference of 50 per cent in the case of
the extensive wave length and of 1 per cent in the oase of
the short wave length. Consequently, descriptions of wave
length applicable to communications have been multiplied.
Aocordingly,

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Accordingly, appliances now in use for international
communications will not be capable of sending forth
messages unless they are furnished with very delicate
adaptability. Hence, interoeption requires a considerable
amount of money for that equipment, whereas messages thus
intercepted will be of no use for the following reasons.
International communications in the present state,
whether by the extensive or short wave length, are trans-
mitted with a marvelous rapidity of 500 to 1500 words
per minute, so that, even though messages sent forth with
such rapidity may be received, they cannot be deoiphered
unless receiving apparatus are of elaborate workmanship.
Supposing that a necessity arises for decipher by
stealing messages even at a considerable cost, how muoh
money will be required for suoh an equipment?
Two or
three million yen at least will have to be spent for both
land and machinery, but this is not all, because effective
reception throughout twenty-four hours without interruption
necessitates the payment of considerable salaries. It can
for these reasons be concluded that wireless messages
cannot be intercepted for decipher by a third party.
On the contrary, cable messages can, as pointed out by
the writer of the Blaok Chamber triok, easily and perfectly
be interoepted by a submarine going under water with coated
wires extended at an adequate distance parallel to cable
lines through the action of induotion current.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
eb. 6, 1930.
Mr. David A. Salmon,
Chief of the Bureau
of Indexes & Archives,
Department of State,
894.72
Weshington,
D..
Dear Sir:
Concerning the letter dated Sept. 26,
1929, HE agreed to my proposal.
HE  ill furnish you, when you send your
representative to HTM or communicate with HIM, with
the copies of the Japanese Code Book.
HIS addrees is 1530 Broadway, New Orleans,
La.
Yours very truly,
E. S. Smith.
New Orleans, La.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
Al.
LOKDG
April 5, 1930.
Hon. David A. Salmon,
Chief of the Bureau of Indexes
and Archives,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
G
Dear Sir:
894.727/1
During September and Febrary
I addressed two communications to you con-
cerning the CODE of the Japanese Consulate,
but my friend said that he had received no
letter, and am wondering if my letters went
astray in the mails.
Since then I have taken the
C
matter up with him as to furnishing IT to
you and he has compiled with my request.
If you will communicate with Mr. G. Momose,
Chancellor of the Japanese Consulate here,
at 1530 Broadway St., New Orleans, La., he
will send you a specimen.
I hope your prompt decision.
Yours very truly.
N 71932
FILED
E. S. Smith.
New Orleans, La.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
Pretoton Pantegraph Maakine Latlertng on
—LABORATORY APPARATUS—TESTING BQUPMENT—RADIO PANELS-—BAKELITE
A. L. WOODY, ENGRAVERS
Bakelile Panel Engraving
8
I8 SOUTH WELLS STREET
FEB -1 32
CHICAGO. ILL.
94.727
January 29, 1932.
State Department,
Washington,
D.C.
Gentlemen:
894.727
About ten years ago, while employed as a
radio operator on a South American run, a Japanese
operator whon I met in Buenos Aires cave me, at my
request, a copy of their phonetic telegraph code.
While this code may be, and probably is
known to some of our Pacific C ast operators, I have
never heard the fact mentioned.
As this copy is still among my papers, I
am informing you in the event that it may be of any
value to you.
Respectfully,
Aisech o Vordd

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.89)
Fetrmary 8, 1952.
dy.
19 South Walls Street,
894
aienge, Illinois.
4.727/1
otre
The reselpt is hereby ackmowledged of your letter of the 29th
ultime vemturiug the imform tion as of valme to this Department
that you are im possessiom of a Japanese telegraphic code.
4
In thunking you for your oourtery in the matter I beg to
advise yes that the cedes and oiphers now in ase are adegate to
the prosent meeds of the Departmemt of state.
Vary traly yours.
For the Searetary of State:
DAVID A. SALNON
A true copy of
Chief, Divisiom ef Commsumieations
the signed orig-
inal.
and Rocords.
J:

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
REOEIVED
JUL 30 1931
New Orleans, La.
DIVISION OF
July 29th, 1931.
U RECOPDS
Hon. David A. Salmon,
Chief of the Division of
Communication and Records.
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
You have received several pictures of the
TELEGRAPHIC CODE BOOKS of the Japan's Foreign Office
894.797
which I have enclosed in my last letter, and I am as-
sured of that you have found them very valuable data
to consult with your staffs.
Do you remember that I wrote to you in my
previous letters about the protection against leakage
of the secret of our COD BoOKS and that it has been
rumouring in Japan that at the time of the Washington
Naval Conference . our government had decinhered our
CODE BOOKS?
Now please find herewith a cutting of the
Japanese news paper. It tells you briefly about the
above mentioned matter.
Then your translator trans-
late it, you will know how the Japan's government is
nervous about this matter and why it is so anxious for
your CIPH RS. As stated in the cutting, the Japan's
Foreign Office has strictly instructed to protect the
CODE BOOKS and to collect the necessary materials for
the study of your CIPH RS.
I trust that this information will be of in-
terest to you and will be an indication of your con-
sideration.
I have told you many confidential
1
matters on our CIPH RS, nd if you want I can furnish
Confidential File
ou with necessary information.
At any rate, I shall be very pleased if you
write me or send your representatives to this city at
an earliest date, I am,
Always yours,
G. Momose.
1530 Broadway
New Orleans, La.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 26, 1931.
Mr. Motsger agreed that
we should defer to Mr. Salmon's
judgment in this matter.
Mr. Castle concurred as to
inadvisability of bringing the
matter to the attention of the
Japanese Ambassador at this
time. He thought, however,
the oase might be referred to
Justice to clear our reoord.
Mr. Metsger is considering
ways and means of doing this.
puu
RSM: EJL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NDER SF
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT
Mr. Castle:
894.7
Herewith the file in regard to letters
received from a former Chancellor of the
Japanese Consulate at New Orleans stating
that he was in position to furnish
pictures and fiims of the Japanese code
books and to assist in obtaining "full
pictures" of the most confidential ones.
You stated that you wished to mention
this case to the Japanese Ambassador
tomorrow (Thursday).
Should the Japanese Ambassador wish
us to do so, Mr. Metzger of Le is of the
opinion that we would be warranted in
referring the correspondence to Justice
for its oonsideration with a view possibly
to instituting legal proceedinge against
Momose.
A memorandum under date August 19 is
attached outlining the facts of the case.
M.M.H.
MMH/VGD

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Confidential.
August 26, 1931.
MMH:
I have just seen Mr. Salmon, of DCR,
to report to him our talk with Mr. Castle
yesterday afternoon about "The Black
Chamber" and the Momose case.
I told him that I understood that
Mr. Castle intended to speak to the
Japanese Ambassador about the Momose
case should the Ambassador call tomorrow
(Thursday).
Mr. Salmon feels very strongly that,
in view of our awkward situation in regard
to "The Black Chamber", the Momose matter
should not be mentioned to the Ambassador
at this time on our initiative and has
stated in the attaohed memorandum his
reasons for so thinking.
Moreover, Mr. Salmon, in our conversa-
tion, also stated that in his opinion the
referenoe of the Momose case to the Depart-
ment of Justice at this time might lead to
further undesirable publicity, both here
and in Japan, concerning "The Black Chamber".
I think that this reasoned opinion of
Mr. Salmon should be brought to Mr. Castle's
attention before his interview with the
Ambassador.
RSM:EJL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASIERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
19
Strietly Confidential.
August  1931.
SKH.
copt
This file (894.727) relates to an attempt to sell to
894.727/1
this Government copies of certain of the Japanese Govern-
ment's codes.
The correspondence originated in September, 1929,
and the letters were addressed to Mr. Salmon, of DCR, in
the name of "E. S. Smith", of New Orleans, Louisiana, who
9
referred in his letters to a "Mr. G. Momose, Chancellor
of the Japanese Consulate in New Orleans," as being
interested in the sale of these codes.
Letters stating that the Department was "not
interested", addressed to Smith at New Orleans, Louisiana,
were returned to the Department unolaimed; and inquiry of
the Postmaster at New Orleans elicited the information
FF
B7.1932
FILED
that the name of "E. S. Smith" was not known there, but
that at 1530 Broadway there resided a Japanese gentleman
named G. Momose, although the latter's conneotion with
Confidential File
the local Japanese Coneulate was not verified. (See
Mr. Banmerman's memo of March 27, 1931.)
Subsequently letters dated respectively July 1l, 25
and 29, 1931, and signed by "G. Momose, 1530 Broadway,
New Orleans, La." were received at the Department by
registered post. These letters refer to the previous
communications

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
communications from "Mr. E. S. Smith" and the writer
(Momose) stated, in his letter of July ll, that he was
in position to furnish pictures and films of the Japa-
nese code books and to assist in obtaining "full
piotures" of the most confidential ones.
In his letter of July 25, the writer enclosed
"some pictures of the CODE BOOKS which we use for the
most confidential purposes" and stated that he was
"going baok to Japan at the end of September when the
Co(n)ference of the Japanese Consuls in U. S. which is
hold at the beginning of September at Washington is over".
The Department's records show that on July 9, 1928,
a diplomatic visa was issued by the American Embassy at
Tokyo to "Mr. Genichi Momose, Chancellor, Japanese
Consulate, New Orleans, proceeding to post" (Tokyo
Embassy's despatch No. 992, of Ootober 22, 1928).
Reference to the Foreign Service list issued by the
Japanese Government as of February 9, 193l, fails to
disolose the name of Momose in any capacity in the
United States. The inference is that, for some reason,
he has been separated from the Japanese Government
service (Tokyo Embassy's despatch No. 159, of March 9,
1931).
Mr. Metsger, of Le, who was orally consulted on the
matter, has called attention to Seotion 2 of Title VIII
of the U. S. Statutes at Large (copy attached) under the
provisions

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
provisions of whioh it appears possible that action
might be taken against Momose for an attempt to obtain
money by falsely pretending to be an official of the
Japanese Government.
If such action be possible, the question arises
whether, in fairness to the Japanese Government, the
faots should not be brought to the attention of the
Japanese Embassy and action instituted if it were
deemed advisable.
The above question might well be considered in the
light of the discussions whioh are now going on in the
Japanese press concerning "The Black Chamber" (Tokyo
Embassy's despatch No. 284, of July 28, 1931).
pum
RSM:EJL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
Gopt.
Stpsoery Comfidenttel.
Auguat 20, 1931.
MO4H:
SKH:
This file (894.727) relates to an attempt to sell to
this Government copies of certain of the Japanese Govern-
ment's codes.
The correspondence originated in September, 1929,
and the letters were addressed to Mr. Salmon. of DCR, in
the name of "". S. Smith", of New Orleans, Louisiana, who
referred in his letters to e Mr. G. Momose, Chancellor
of the Japanese Consulete in New Orleans," as being
interested in the sale of these codes.
Letters stating that the Department was "not
interested", addressed to Smith at New Orleans, Louisiana,
were returned to the Department unolaimed; and inquiry of
the Postmaster at New Orleans elicited the information
that the name of "E. S. Smith" was not known there, but
that at 1530 Broadway there resided a Japanese gentleman
named G. Momose, although the latter's conneotion with
the local Japanese Consulate was not verified. (See
Mr. Bannerman's memo of Maroh 27. 1931.)
Subsequently letters dated respectively July 11, 25
and 29, 1931, and signed by "G. Momose, 1530 Broadway.
New Orleans. La." were received at the Department by
registered post. These letters refer to the previous
commnications

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
一 2 -
commanioations from "Mr. E. S. Smith" and the writer
(Momose) stated, in his letter of July ll, thet he was
in position to furnish piotures and filme of the Jape-
nese code books and to assist i. obtaining "full
pictures" of the most confidential ones.
In his letter of July 5, the writer enclosed
"some pictures of the coDE Boo; which we use for the
most confidential purposes
and stated that he was
"going baok to Japan at the end of September when the
Co(: )ference of the Japanese Consuls in U. S. which 1s
held at the beginning of leptember at ashington is over".
The Department's records show that on July 9, 1928.
a diplomatic visa was issued by the American Embassy at
Tokyo to Mr. Genichi Momose, Chancellor, Japanese
Consulate, New Orleans, proceeding to post" (Tokyo
Embassy'e despatch No. 992, of October 22, 1928).
Reference to the Foreign Service list issued by the
Japanese Government as of February 9. 193l, fails to
disolose the name of Momose in any capacity in the
United States. The inference is that, for some reason.
he has been soparated from the Japanese Government
service (Tokyo Embassy's despatoh No. 159, of March 9,
1931).
Mr. Metsger, of Le, who was orally consulted on the
matter, has oalled attention to Seotion 2 of Title VIII
of the U. S. Statutes at Large (oopy attached) under the
provisions

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
provisions of which it appears possible that action
might be taken against Mamose for an attempt to obtain
money by falsel pretendin to be an official of the
Japanese Government.
If such action be possible, the question arises
whether, in fairness to the Japanese Government, the
facts snould not be brougnt to the attention of the
Japanese Embassy and action instituted 1f it were
deemed advisable.
The above question might well be considered in the
light of the disoussions which are no goin on in the
Japanese press concerning "The Black Chamber" (Tokyo
Embassy's dospatch No. 284. of July 28, 1931).
RSM: EJL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
Stpletly Comfidential.
Anguat 20, 1931.
MO.AH:
SYR:
This file (894.7?7) relates to an attempt to sell to
this Government cop1es of certain of the Japanese Govern-
ment'e codes.
The correspondence originated in September, 1929.
and the letters were addressed to Mr. Salmon. of D, in
the name of ". S. Snith". of Ne Or eans, Louisiane. who
referred 1n his letters to a Mr. C. Momose. Chanoellor
of the Japanese Consul:t 1n New Orleans." as being
interested in the sale of these codes.
Letters stating that the Departhent was "not
interested". addressed to Smith at Nev Orleans, Louisiana.
were rotur ed to the epartment unclaimed; and inquiry of
the Postmaster at New Orleans elicited the information
that the name of "?. S. Smith" was not known there. but
that at 1530 Broadway there resided a Japanese gontleman
named G. Momose. although the latter's connection with
the local Japanose Coneulate was not verified. (See
Mr. Banmerman's memo of Maroh 27, 1931.)
Subsequently letters dated respeotively July 1l, 25
and 29, 1931. and signed by "G. Momose, 1530 Broadway.
New Orleans. La." were received at the Department by
registered post. These letters refer to the previous
comnications

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
commmnisatione from "Mr. E. . Smith" and the writer
(Momose) stated, in his letter of July 1l, that he wes
in position to furnish piotures and filme of the Japa-
nese code books and to useiet 1 obtainin "full
picturee" of the moat confidential ones.
In his letter o July 5, th writer enclosed
"some picturee of the Co ': which we use for the
most confidentiel urposes
and stated that ho was
"going baok to Japan at the end of september when the
Co(: )ference of the Japanese Consuls in U. S. which 1s
held at the beginning of eptember at ashington is over".
The Department's recorde show that on July 9, 1928.
a diplomatic vies was iesued by the American mbassy at
Tokyo to Mr. Genichi Momose Chancellor. Japanese
Coneulate. New Orleans. proceeding to post" (Tokyo
Embassy'e deepatoh No. 992, o: October 22, 19 8).
Reforence to the Foreign Service list issued by the
Japanese Covernment as of February 9. 193l, fails to
disolose the name of Momose in any capacity in the
United tates. The inference is that. for some reason.
he has been separated from the Japenese Coverment
Bervioe (Tokyo mbassy's despatch No. 159, of Maroh 9.
1931).
Mr. Metsger. of Le, who wms orally conaulted on the
matter. has oalled attention to Seotion 2 of Title VIII
of the U. 3. Statutes et Large (copy attaohed) under the
provisions

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
provisions of which it appears possible that action
might be taken against Momose for an attempt to obtain
money by falsely pretending to be an official of the
Japanese Government.
If such action be possible, the uestion arises
whether, in fairness to the Japanese overnnent, the
facts snould not be brought to the attention of the
Japanese Embassy und action institited if it were
deemed advisable.
The above question might well be coneidered in the
light of the disoussions which are no goin on in the
Japanese press concernin,  The leck Chamber" (Tokyo
Embassy's deepatoh No. 284. of July 28, 1931).
RSM:EJL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
TITLE VIII.
Disturbance of Foreign Relations.
Sec. 2. Whoever within the jurisdiction of the
United States shall falsely assume or pretend to be a
diplomatio or consular, or other official of a foreign
government duly aocredited as such to the Government
of the United States with intent to defraud suoh foreign
government or any person, and shall take upon himself to
aot as suoh, or in suoh pretended oharacter shall demand
or obtain, or attempt to obtain from any person or from
said foreign government, or from any officer thereof,
any money, paper, document, or other thing of value,
shall be fined not more than $5,O00, or imprisoned not
more than five years, or both.
U. S. Statutes at Large,
Volume 40, Part 1, page 226.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
August 26. 1931.
FE
894.727/17
894.727
Dear Mr. Miller:
With reference to advising the Japanese Ambassador of the corres-
pondence which we have received from former Chancellor of the Japanese
Consulate at New Orleans, Momose, I would offer the following sugges-
tions:
(1) That the matter be not mentioned to the Japanese Ambassador
unless the Department is approached by the Japanese Ambassador in
connection with the messages of the Japanese Government which have been
reproduced in Herbert O. Yardley's book, "The Black Chamber". My
reason for offering this suggestion is that up to this time so far as
my knowledge goes the Japanese have not made any representation to the
Depertment concerning "The Black Chamber" and I am fearful that if the
FEB 27 1932
ILED
Momose correspondence is brought to the Embassy's attention it will
lead to inquiries as to what action the Department proposes to take in
connection with Mr. Yardley's disclosures. In other words it seems to
me that the Department should not place itself in a position of making
Confidential File
an opening for the discussion of the "Black Chamber" matter, but the
Momose correspondence could be used as a gesture in the event that the
Japanese

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
2
Japanese Ambassador should make any representations with reference to
Mr. Yardley's book.
(2) My feeling is that unless the Momose correspondence could be
used in this manner it would be better to ignore it entirely.
9.4.5

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DERSECRETARY
September 3
1931.
SEP 4 1931
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sub ject:
Correspohdonce Received from
one Momose, Former Chancellor
of the Japanese Consulate at
New Orleans, Offering to Sell
Japanese Codes.
Mr. Castle:
Please note that Mr. Metzger of Le is
of the opinion that, if this correspondence
were referred to the Department of Justice,
that Department would not prosecute this
case on the evidence presented by the cor-
respondence and that, if prosecution should
be undertaken, there would be no conviction.
I therefore concur in Mr. Miller's
and Mr. Salmon's recommendation that these
papers be left in the hands of Mr. Salmon
without further action at present.
Your approval is requested.
M.m.H.
MME/ZMF

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNBEH SECRETARY
SP 4 1931
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SOptOmbOPEAP193LOFSTAT
MMH:
I have consulted with Mr. Metzger (Le) and Mr. Salmon
894.727/18
(DCR) concerning Mr. Castle's suggestion that the Momose
case be referred to the Department of Justice in order
that, should the matter come up in any way in the future,
this Department would be in a position to show by the
record that it had done what it could in this matter.
Mr. Metzger's opinion was that if the case were re-
ferred to Justice this Department oould not very well con-
trol the course of events thereafter; that it would rest
with the Department of Justice whether action should be
brought or not; and that if they decided that action should
be brought it would lead to the publicity which this Depart-
ment desires to avoid because of the effect of such pub-
licity upon our international relations.
EL
Mr. Metzger was asked if the matter might not be sub-
EB27.1932
FILND
mitted personally and informally to someone in the Depart-
ment of Justice for an opinion as to whether or not the
correspondence furnished suffioient grounds for bringing
action, should the papers be referred to the Department of
Sonfident
Justice for consideration. Mr. Metzger thought that this
might be done, although so far as his experience went such
a course would be unusual. (See copy of memorandum attached.
tial
Mr. Metzger
File

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Mr. Metzger added that in his considered opinion the
Department of Justice would not proseoute this oase on the
evidence presented by the correspondence and that if they
did prosecute there would be no conv iotion.
Mr. Salmon's opinion was that the matter should be
dropped where it is, since any submission to the Department
of Justice, even though informal, might lead to publicity
whioh at this time would not be to the public interest.
It is recommended that the papers be left in the hands
of Mr. Salmon without further action at present.
eam
DeR.
RSM:EJL
0.9.5.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Memorandum as to Form of Request for Opinions
of the Attorney General.
First. That Executive Departments, having a law
officer, for example, the Judge-Advocate-General of the
Army or of the Navy, the Comptroller or Solicitor of the
Treasury, the Assistant Attorney General for a Department,
when desiring an opinion of the Attorney-General,
accompany the reyuest therefor with the written opinion
of such law officer; referring to all legislation or de-
cisions or any ruling, usage or practice of the Department,
affecting the question; and with a brief statement of such
reasons, for and against such opinion, as may occur or be
presented to him.
Second. That each Executive Department - whether
having such law officer or not - desiring such opinion,
accompany the request therefor with a specific reference
by volume, page, section, or otherwise, to any legislation,
decision, opinion, or ruling affecting the question sub-
mitted, and to any usage, practice or working of the
Department which may be thought to affect such question.
* * * * * * * * * *
(From the Office of the Attorney General to the Seoretary
of State, March 20, 1915, file No. 711.12153/70. See als0
letter from Acting Attorney General, dated Ootober 15, 1906,
Volume 182, 1906-1910, No. 1691.)

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
F
September 1. 1931.
I have consulted with Mr. Metzger (Le) and Mr. Salmon
(DCR) conoerning Mr. astle's suggestion that the Momose
case be referred to the epartment of Justioe in order
that, should the matter come up in any way in the future,
this De artment would be in a position to show by the
reoord that it had done what it could in this matter.
Mr. Metzger's opinion was that if the case were re-
ferred to Justice this Department could not very well con-
trol the course of evente thereafter; that it would rest
with the Department of Justioe whether aotion should be
brought or not; and that if they decided that aotion should
be brought it would lead t, the publicity which this Depart-
ment desires to avuid beoause of the effeot of suoh pub-
licity upon our international relations.
Mr. Metzger was asked if the matter might not be sub-
mitted personally and informally to someone in the Depart-
mont of Justice for an opinion as to whether or not the
correspondence furnished suffioient grounds for bringing
action, should the papers be referred to the Department of
Justice for consideration. r. Metzger thought that this
might be done, although so far as his experience went such
a eourse would be umsual. (See copy of memorandum attached.)
Mr. Metzger

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Mr. Metzger added that in his considered opinion the
Department of Just1ce would not prosecute this oase on the
evidence presented by the correspondence and that if they
did proseoute there would be no oon viotion.
Mr. Salmon's opinion was that the matter should be
dropped where it is, since any submission to the Department
of Justice. even though informal, might lead to publicity
whioh at this time would not be t the public interest.
It is recommended that the papers be left in the hands
of Mr. Salmon without further action at present.
RSM:EJL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
Memorandum as to Form of Request for Opinions
of the Attorney General.
First. That xeoutive Departments, having a law
officer. for example. the Judge-Advocute-uener 1 of the
Army or of the Navy. the Comptroller or solicitor of the
Treasury. the Assistant Attornoy Gener l for a veyartment,
when desiring an opinion of the Attorney-Generel,
accompany the request therofor with the written opinion
of such law officer; referring to all legislatiun or de-
cisions or any ruline. usage or practice of the pepartment,
affeoting the question; and with & brief tatement of such
reasons. for and against such opinion. as may occur or be
presented to him.
Seoond. That euch xeoutive epartment - whether
having suoh l w officer or not - desiring such opinion.
accompany the reguest therefor with s ecific reference
by volume. page. sectiun, or otherwise, to any legislation,
deoision. opinion, or ruling affectin the question sub-
mitted. and to any usage, prectice or workin of the
Department whioh muy be thought to affect such yuestion.
(From the Offioe of the Attorney General to the Seoretary
of State. Maroh 20. 1915, file No. 71l.12153/70. See alao
letter from Aoting Attorney General, dated Ootober 15. 1906,
Vo1m 182. 1906-1910, No. 1691.)

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
REOEIVED
1.1An1 1932
DIVISION OF
July 25th, 1931.
fie
Hon. David A. Salmon,
Chief of the Bureau of Indexes
ARL
and Archives,
Department of State,
Washington,
). 0.
Dear Sir:
Two wee s move p ssed since I have written to
you about the  I
I ) ors of the Foreign Office
of Japan, and I believe that you have considered the matter
well nd have gone into consultation vith  our authorities.
I mm afr id vory much. ou have found my offer
annoying.
But I m not coing to im ose upon . ou, I am
earnest and serious.
I m assured of that this is the
time of all times to et the perfect copies of the Japanese
CIPH RS.
I think that if  ou have the copies of our
JR
COD: BOOKS, it is very convenient for  our future diplomatic
policy; they will furnish a valuable contribution *o your
diplomacy.
For simil r reason our goverrment is anxious
to get the copies of your ciphers.
8
which we use or the most confidential purpose.
727/19
No. 1.
The cover of JIPTR Ho. I ( pronouneed B I T )
IIO. B.
One of the pages of NO. I.
No. 3.
ditto.
No. 4.
The cover of CI  R No. U.
hen your experts examine the above pictures,
will find that they are the most valuable specimens.
I am going back to Janan at the end of Septenber
when the Coference of the Japanese Consuls in U. S. which
is held at the beginning of September at Washington is over.
So that if you have interest in this matter and let me know
your consideration, I shall be very much pleased.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Hon. David A. Salmon.
Awaitinr your further consideration, I m,
Yours vee irul.,
G. fomose.
1530 Bro dway
New Orlenns, La.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
OCT 1 7 1931
02
Departmont of State
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Fort de France, Martinique, F. W. I., September 19, 193].
CLASSIFICATION CANLLED
By:0owlur n1011-18.
SUBJECT:
Transmitting Copies of a Newspaper Containing
1—1055 G P O
Comments on the Methods of the Customs Foreign
Service.
71
THE HONORABLE
197.727
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith five copies
of L'AURORE, Fort de France, Martinique, September 12,
l93l, containing an article which begins by reviewing
the book, The American Black Chamber, by Herbert O.
6
NC
Yardley, and ends by accusing the foreign representa-
25/775
tive of the Treasury Department of bribery in obtaining
their intelligence and the Government of the United
States of bad faith in its dealings with France. The
article in question is found on the second page, and
has been marked in red.
I have not read the book under review either in
English or French, and cannot say which of the allega-
tions in the review are taken from the book and which
are made by the reviewer: One sentence therein may be
AN11934
noted particularly. As printed, it lacks a punctuation
mark, and, instead of a rhetorical question calling fo
an affirmative answer, may be an emphatic negative. I
translate this sentence, Does he not (or He does not in-
deed) go so far as to boast of having had the safe of the
French

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
French Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Quai d'Orsay open-
ed "to photograph the cipher keys".
The article speaks of the closing of the "Black Chamber"
in l929, and continues as follows:
Suppressed from the viewpoint of diplomacy
perhaps, it continues to function from a commer-
cial viewpoint.
Last year it was learned, not without surprise,
that Americans had duplicates of the commercial
books of the large stores of Paris, and knew, there-
fore, the exact value of merchandise shipped to the
United States, and the American customs service stands
on sure ground when it prosecutes for insufficient
"ad valorem" declaration. The trial of a cashier
revealed last year that he had received a million
to deliver to the commercial spies of the United
States at Paris duplicates of the books of his em-
ployer. The French Government approached Wash-
ington unofficially, and the latter promised to stop
this jobbery, so foreign to our moral usage, but it
appears that it has done nothing about it, and that
with more caution these proceedings continue as
before.
Thanks to these means, an action (was) brought
by the New York customs house against a great jeweler
of Paris who had declared his necklaces of true pearls
as being of cultivated pearls. An enormous fine was
imposed. These are facts not generally known, but
which give a very shabby picture of the way in which
these "good friends" treat us.
It is apparent that the author has confused informers'
rewards with bribes.
Jean Bernard, the author, who is understood to be a
lawyer in Paris, oontributes regularly to L'AURORE and,
probably, to other colonial and provincial journals.
Respectfully yours,
William P. Robertson
American Vice Consul.
Enclosure:
L'AURORE, September 12, 1931.
In Quintuplioate.
800
WPR/JB.
JM
ma.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
(TRANSLATION)
Bouroe: L'Aurore,
Fort de France,
Sep. 12, 1931.
As we are speaking of Americans, let us observe en
passant that they really treat us with an incredible
nonchalance.
We would never, never have believed the methods
used against us by the Yankees, if one of them, the onief
of the espionage service, during the war, Major Yardley,
had not informed us of it, with rare impudence,--what other
word can we employ?-in a large book which he has just
published and which he calls, "THE AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER."
"The Black Cave" is the expression whioh should be used.
Major Yardley boasts of nis exploits and gives abundant
details.
His service was oharged with the decoding of the secret
telegrame of the Allies. These revelations show that from
l927 to l929 forty five thousand confidential reparts were
deciphered by the American secret police. Let us give an
example, en passant. At the time of the Washington Conference,
of all cipher telegrams. Thanks to this service, "The
membere
(a) The word in the original implies "by burglarious methods".

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
members of the Amerioan delegation calmly study at the
breakfast table the secret English and French reports
relative to the pourparlers of the preceding day and
thus take their measures for the disoussions to follow.
What incredible methods! And the Major cynica ly
admits it. He goes so far as to boast of having forced
open the safe of the French Foreign Office, of the Quai
d'Orsay "to photograph t he key to the code." What strange
frionds:
The ohief of the diplomatic police explains to us
how a "pretty American spy struck up a friendsnip with the
secretary of an English embassy, and took possession of
the code key entrusted to the latter."
And the Major is  roud of it. He apparently does
not understand tnat such acts are simply dishonorable.
"The Black Chamber", foun ed during the war, con-
tinued its work after the conclusion of peace; it was not
disoontinued until the end of 1929.
Although discontinued from the diplomatio point of
view, perhape, it continues to operate from the commercial
point of view.
Last year, it was learned, not without surprise, that
some Americans had the duplicate of the commercial books
of the large stores of Paris, and therefore knew the exaot
value of the merohandise shipped to the United States, and
the

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the Amerioan oustoms service is sure of its ground when
it draws up prooès-verbaux with regard to insufficient
"ad-valorem" declarations. The trial of a cashier dis-
closed last year that he had received a million for
furnishing to commercial spies of the United States at
Paris duolicate copies of the accounts of nis employer.
The French Government made a semi-official démarche at
Washington, which promised to put a stop to such under-
hand dealings, so foreign to our ethics, but apparently
it accomplished nothing in the matter and the practice
goes on as before, but with the exeroise of greater
prudonoe.
It was thanks to these means that a suit was brought
by the New York customhouse against a prominent Paris
jeweler, who had declared necklaces of genuine pearls
as culture pearls. He was sentenced to pay an enormous
fine. These are facts which are not generally kmown,
but which give one a low opinion of the way in which
these "good friende" treat us.
JEAN BERNARD.
Tr:BHL:EH:88

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
Numéro 45JOROANE DE DEFEN
LAUI
TÉLEPHONE
158
3250
PRAI SAIT A FORT-DE-FRA
AD TEL
BOITE POSTALB, 177
Fondateur : VICTOR SURBNA -- Ad
miaits son paysbles d'avance
ADRESSER TOUS LESIP IS CONCERNANT LA RÉDACTION ET
Je n'aiqu'une pierre dans ma tronde, mai cette pierre est b
POLITIQUE D'EMPRUNT!
POLITIQUE DE RUINE !
Dins le discours qu'il a pronon.
comme amortissement de l'em-
cé à la Société des Industriels de
prun: envisagé.
PEst à Naney, le 27 Juillet 1930.
Aujourihui la crise bat son
Monsieur André Tardieu parlant
ple.n, nos pro luits principaux sur
du programme d'équipernent na-
le-quels repose le budget presque
LELIAS
tional quil avait présenté à la
totalement c nnaissent, malgré I.
cnambre le7 novembre 1329 fait
exposition coloniale,une mévente
la déclaration suivante
qui d'après I administration l'obli-
a Nouvelle saffirme la methode
ge à fairs des economies sur
financière que nous déten lons devant
tous les chapitres; les bourses, les
les chambres. En dépit de la trali-
ies prêts d'honneur, ont été ré-
tion et de fortes pressions, nous avons
duits de moitie, on a contingenté
écarlé l'empruni moyen responsable
linstruction des enfants de la
de l inachévement des plans précé tents
Martinique: c est presque la failli-
Nous l'avons lécarté pour poursui-
te / Et nous serions forcés d'Em-
vre sans faiblesse l'œuvre d’assainis-
prunter dans une situation aussi
sement, résolus que nous élions à ne
précaire et à un taux non encore
pas amortir d'une main en emprun-
fixé.
tant de l'autre, àne pas recommencer.
Il y a une erreur grossière à
l'histoire de l'ancienne caisse d amor
vouloir assimiler la situation de
tissement de 1816-1871 qui nous a
la ,Martinique à celle des colonies
laissés avec une dette accrue et à
neuves, qui ont absolument be.
n'engager l'Etat que dans la mesure
soin d'emprunt pour leur mise
où sa trésorerie lui fournit des avoirs
en valeur ; le paiement de cette
disponibles et ligaides. "
dette est gagé sur les revenus
Cette affirmation précise des
des exploitations nouvelles, cul-
funestes effets de la politique d'em
tures et industries à créer sur des
prunt, par unə des autorités les
points inexplorés ou inaccessibles.
plus incontestables de la représen
sources de richesses nouvelles
tation parlementaire française
que les voies de pénétrations,
nous émeut :bien sincèrement au
voies ferrées ou routes vont drai-
moment oû l'officie! publie cette
ner vers des ports dont le trafis
espèce d'emprunt foroé que le par
n'est pas encorə évalué.
lement semble imposer à la Mar-
Ici tout est connu, archi connu;
tinique.
le point culminant atteint par la
Quand il fut question des grands
courbe de notre vente aprèsda
aux exéouter par des fonds
guorre ne peut être dépassé;
mprunt au cours de la session
contingentement est appliqué d
extraordinaire du Conseil Général
plus en plus rigoureusement et
de Décembre 1929, ie Gouverneur
nos possibilités de dépense sontà
Cantau, après avoir consulté le
la merci d'un coup de Bourse, d'.
Ministre des Colonies et aussi le
une lutte de Financiers. Ce que
Bouverneur de la Guadeloupe met
nous rapportera en plus,port, rou-
avis dans son discours
tes et élactrioité peut être évalué
dès maintenant, et dans le oas le
ameala qui m'ont
plus favorable, les revenus no
couvriront pas los inlérôsde
sommee
temps.
tar avee
Dans la nomenclature présentée

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
points inexplorés ou inaccessibles.
unt, par una des autorités les
sources de riohesses nouvelles
pus incontestablas de la représen
tation parlementaire française
que les voies de pénétrations,
nous émeut bien sincèrement au
voies ferrées ou routes vont drai-
momont oû l'ofioie! publie cette
ner vers des ports dont le tratio
espèce d'omprunt foroé que le par
n'est pas encora évalué.
lement semble imposer à la Mar-
Ioi tout est connu, archi connu,
le point culminant atteint par 
tinique.
Quand il fut question des grands
courbe de notre vente après
traveux à exéouter par des fonds
guorre ne peut être dépassé;
d'emprunt au cours de la session
contingentement est appliqué 
exraordinaire du Conseil Gánéral
plus en plus rigoureusement et
nos possibilités de dépense sont à
de Décembre 1929, le Gouverneur
Camtau, après avoir consulté lo
la merci d'un coup de Bourse, d'.
des Colonies et aussi le
une lutte de Financiers. Ce que
armour de la Guadeloupe met
nous rapportera en plus,port, rou-
avis dans son discours
tes et élactricité peut être évalué
dès maintenant, et dans le cas le
renseignements qui m'ont
plus favorable, les revenus ne
couvriront pas les intérêts de
sommes engagées avant long
 le délai d'amortissement de
temps.
Dans la nomenclature prásentée
Temprunt est de cinquante ans avec
interel à 5 .1
par M. Cantau,le Port de Fort-de.
Dans ces conditions,l'Admin:stra-
France était doté de 25.000 000,
tion dans les propositions qu'elle a
ce décret lui acourde 14.600.000
frs, presque le double, les routes
I'honneur de vous soumettre estime
sont pourvues dans les mêmes
que la capacilé finencière de la Co-
conditions, de 35.000.000 elles pas-
lonie lui permet de contraoter un en
sent à 52.000 000 mais, alors que
prunt de 100.000.000 tr.
Je ne crois ni sage ni prudent
partout à la Guadeloupe conme en
A. O. F, les travaux d'assainisse-
d'aller au delà de cette somme. I1 y
ment,d'adduction d'eau, d'irriga-
a lieu en eltet de se préoccuper de
tion, l'aménagement des ports se-
l'annuité à verser qui sera environ
condeires, Travaux d Urbanisme
au taux déjà mentionné de 5.500.
dans les cominunes occupent une
000 trs.
large p'ace da l'emprunt, aucune
La force contributive de la Colo-
de ces importantes questions n
nie ne peut dépasser cetle annuité
est envisagée pour la Martini-
la preuve d'ailleurs en a été laite
que.
d'une laçon certaine ; dans la pleni-
Le projet Tardieu prévoit au
tude de ses attributions le conseil
service de l'agriculture le tiers de
général ne croyant pas devoir res
la som me globale affectée à l'équi-
ter dans les limites d'un budget
perient national. « Votre premier
d'attente a dù équilibrer le budget
èttorts sera pour notre agriculture
de 1930 par un prélevement ordinai
(Applaudissements ) élément essen
re de plus de 25.000.00 trs sur
tiel de f'équilibre harmonieux du
les londs de la Caisse de Réserve.»
corps trançais. Get effort lui, voudra
A ce même moment. les services
une dotation de 1 milliard 750 milli
flnanciers de la Colonie évaluaient
ons répartis comme suit : électrifi
des rentrées certaines qui permet
cation des campagtes 300 millions :
taient de dépasser les arrérages
adduction d'eau potable 300 milli-
nécessitées par un emprunt de
ons ; reboisement et achat de forels:
200.000.000fres.
130 millions ; dotation de I Institut
Nombreux cependant sont les
des Recherches agronomiques 50
Martiniquais avertis qui protestè-
millions; dotation de la Caisse natio
rent contre le principe de l'em-
nale des assurances agricolestsi sou
prunt, 'admettant comme le dit
Tardieu,que c'était une opération
vent sujet de discours 300 millions;
me
on tous points déficitaire pour
dotation de la Gaisse davance aux
ne
communes, vieux projet lui aussi
un pays dont la production est
300 millions ; desenclavement des
stabilisée et toujours sous la
communes isolées dans les monta-
menace d'évènements catastro-
gnes 50 millions; c.éation d'un ré
phiques: cyclone, volcan; et qu'il
seau de radio-diffusion dans les cam
bien
fallait mieux faire un effort bud-
pagnes 70 millions »
gélaire pour réunir chaque année
acte
A la Martinique avant comme
ia somme nécessaire à l'accom-
lifie
plissement d'une tranche des tra
après l'Emprunt, le Sud ne sera
Rép
pas irrigué, toutes ces propriétés
vaux, en ajoutant tout simple-
mont quelques millions à coux
qui seraient d'un bon rapport si
l'eau leur était dispensée en quanti
qui seraiont obligatoirement payés

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
INE Moreredi 9 & SAMEDI 12 Septmbre 1931
ORE
LES MERCREDI ET SAMEDI
ABONNEMENTS
25.
INTERIEUR
bistratrice : Mme Vve VICTOR SURENA
un an. 251-6 mols 151-3 mots 10
EENI_UR
INISTRATION ANGLE DES RUES ISAMBERT A PERRINON
nne celle pierre c'est LA JUSTICE
(Victor Hugo)
té suffisante continueront comme
Il est à prévoir du reste que
par le passé à servir de cimetière
sans un contrôle rigcureux les
des bestiaux pendant plus de la
150 millions ne suffiront pas, les
moitié de l'année ; les marécages
travaux comrmencés il faudra les
qui encerolent es bourgs conti
achever, les dépenses peuvent
nueront à distiller les fièvres, et
facilement,trop facilement, attein-
cependant les habitants de ces
dre les proportions des avenants
communes paieront leur quote
successifs de I'Hôtel inhabitable
part dans les mêmes proportions
du Gouvernement ; commentalors
que le reste de la population.
la Martinique sortira-t-elle d
Trinité den' le port est indispen-
cette avalanche de millions d'inté-
sable pour l'écoulement des pro-
rêts et d'smortissement obligatoi-
duits du Nord n' recu aucune do-
re:, exigibles ?
tation ; tandis que Fort-de-France
Ce sera alors la fin de notre au-
comptera trois ports.
tonomie financiére, déja illusoire
Mais qui donc a suggéré cette
par suite des charges écrasantes
nomanclature depravaux au Dé.
de nos dépenses obligatoires et
partement ? M Sévère a déclaré
qui augmentent sans cesse selon
iu conseil généràl en décembre
le bon plaisir des Administrateurs;
929 et nous partageons cette fois
pour sa payer, le Gouvernement
 manière de voir " Vous savez
cantral nous accordera conme à
hen que vos forces contributives ne
tous ceux qui ne savent pas gérer
nt pas illimitées et qu'après ce
leurs finances avec pondèration et
pand effort accc mpli maintenant
économie une lourde ture le.
jus aurez épuisé votre crédit pour
C'est le Rerour à l'Indigénal.
ngtemps
Après la Ruine, I'Esclavage!
n'envisageait pas la fameuse
Politiqu d'Emprunt, politiqus
se mais depuis, la situation s'est. néfaste! politiqu criminelle!
L'AURORE
gravée sérieusement.
EDITORIAL
Que peut-on faire contre cela?
Les diatribes contre le Départe-
rédacteurs dimagogues, que si la Fran-
des Colonies, conire le Gouver-
ce ne vou'ait pas que ses enfants d'ou-
lui méme remp'issent les co
tre-mer fusseit bafoués, comme il en
de La Résistance et de « Au
est coutume, par ses représentants aux
colonies ; ils ne le seraient pas.
s nous accuse « L'Action Nou-
Et nous avons tort d'avoir écrit cela
alle nous en veut parce que
et de léerire encore!
hes que noms apons
Pour que nous n'eussions pas tor! et
que nou, soyions bien vus, il aurait fal
lu nous taire, à moins de faire com-
me certains rédacteurs de « L'Action
umalla et dcrira comme à pra

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.95)
s diatribes contre le Départe- rédacteurs dimagogues, que si la Fran-
des Colonies, ponire le Gouver-
ce ne vou'ait pas que ses enfants d'ou-
N lui méme remp'issent les co.
tre-mer fusseit bafoués, comme il en
de La Résistance et de « Au
est coutume, par ses représentants aux
colonies ; ils ne le seraient pas.
ssi nous accuse « L'Action Nou-
Et nous avons tort d'avoir écrit cela
el elle nous en veut parce que
et de lécrire encore!
mabes que nous avons adra
Pour que nous n'eussions pas tor! et
que nous soyions bien vus, il aurait fal
lu vous taire, à moins de faire com-
me certains rédacteurs de « L'Action
Nouvelle > et d'écrire comme à pro
souven,des
pos de l'enseignement.
faragque
oulons pas.
« Que peut-on fa'recontre cela?
d nous
s'en pren-
Cela s'est toujours fait et cela
and on
e malgié
se tera dans l'enseignement — En
France et à la Martunique — tant
esqu'un Goupe
 comme
qu'on n'aura pis retiré au chef
de la France, d m faillirent la
du département ou de la colonie
. le Droit, et  Liberté, im-
la nomination des instituteurs,
 ses vieilles colomies, par le yeu
pour la reinettre à l'autorité ac-
coulisses, des reltions et des in-
cadémique. 
es, des hommes ou des ombres,
Qu'est ce à dire? Qu? signifi: une
me a dit le digne représentant
telle attitude ?
France ici en 1924) dont le
Devons•rous done écrire comm? cux
puci est de tirer profits et hon-
en pensant à note satrr amvesel
des avantages scandaleux quof-
violenté, à notre indigenal rlat a
he écharpe de député ou de séna-
sa plas simole ivpression et anx on-
eut on s'en prendre à nous ou
mes commis tant à la Guy.ne Fran-
ement, qu'à ces homimes ?
çaise, à la Martinique quà la Guad
orsqu'un Gouvernement sait par
loupe sous le hout patronnat de. Gom
istpire, les péripéties par lesquelles
verneurs des colonies et par la mimn
assé, peut-il sepermettre d assu-
voie, , sous la baute protection
es elections d un seul homme.
des ministres et du ministère d:s colo-
re toute une population, ses fils, en
nies et dire :
prelant main forte e! forces armées
" Que peut-on faure contre cel?
lement, parce qu'il sait qu'ainsi,
Et voilà, pour des Réd icteurs demo
issure à la chambre ou au Sénat
cratiques du genre el de lopice de
oncours politique de cet hom-
ceux de « PAction N uvcte » un
？
Gouverneur, un ministre,  s
qui s'en prendre désormais ?
tére, plus que ça méme, in President
en est atnsi, et ce sera encore de la République est it rigl a
temps ainsi!
eux, avec leur conscience, sis en ont,
ais tout de méme, peut-on obliger
et mieux encore avee la Demorratie
le mond. à mettre la téte dans
de la séme Républiqu. Française
réme bonnet!
quelques soient ses illégitiites, sis vio-
ue ceux qui trouvent dans cetle
lations envers la loi!
ode, leur intérét, Gloire et Hon-
Pour ces messieurs de « 1'Action
,continuent!
Nouvelle »; C'e-t leur dot !
lais pour nous, Antillais :
Ils les soutiennent pour des raisois
Idébaran, Antares, Richard !!!
que nous ne connaissons pis et que
bild de bien tristes souvenirs et
nous ne cherchons pas à connaitre ;
sür;ils ne sont pis pourglorifier ces
mais qui cependant, quelgu lles soint
combien libéraux, dont nous gra-
ne justifient pas cette attitule.
t les Représentants de la 3ème
Cest peu!-éire une des façons de ne
ublique.
pas leur étre désagréable 1 et d'arriver
lement, que tous les Antillais se
à ses fins.
 bien, quoiqu'écrivent quelques
VICTOR SURENA

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
EN HAUTE CO
N. LEMERY AU SECOURS DE M. RAOUL PEI
Si l'on demandait à M. Lémery intame machination ie Popula
ce qu'il pense de Lagrosillière, il
pu se procurer le détail exact
ne manqueralt pas de répondre ;
scrutin s-cret. Ce qui doit êire
« l'espère qu'il ya encore une
c'est que M: I émery a trouvé
justice en France, et qu'il sera con
mal le tait d'avoir tait perdre q
damné
ques dizaines de millions à l'é
Lagrosillière pour M. Lémery,
gue publi que, et quil es imoq
n's pas un honnere homme, Ger-
avocat a le dre it d'émarger aux
binis est digne de fai e partie d'ún
ses qu'il a précédemment dé
Comité de salut public. Et lui, l'a-
dues comme ininistre.
vocat naturellement poité à l'in-
Vous me direz qi'l n est
dulgence, enverrait, les yeux fer-
en cel pus coupab'e que n
mes, Lagro à la guillotine...
porte lequel des deux cents at
Appelé à juger un ca: de forfai-
sénateur) qui out émis le m
rure carnctérisé, crlui du ministre
vote que lui.
fé'on Raoul Péret, M. Lémery a
S, cr, demain, a coté de
non seulement votè l'a quittement
mont e: de sa clique, il braid
mais a encore très vivement insis-
impérie use nece sté de con
té auprès de ses collégues peur qu'
rer Lagios couti e qui on n'a pt
ils bianchissent lancien ministre de
qu'à pré ent apporter aucune
la J stice. Au aravant, en séance
ge precise.
publique, il avait hypocritement
Par souci de misérable pol
fein: de poser une question redou
il appor era tout son acharng
table pcur les accusés.
à obtenir un verdict infal
Mais les délibérations et les scu
tout comme il a absout par
tins de la Haute-Cour ont lieu à
po itique.
huis-cles et quard les pories out
Ces belles ames sont ains
été soignrusement fermées, M.
tes!
Lémery s'est dèbar: assé de son
Elles font tour à tour
masque de censeur et a plaidé pour
de cyni me  étalage de ver
le « copain ».
Hum! C'ts: à fin 1932
Sait on jamais ce qui peut ar-
que la Martinique renouvelle
river ?
senateur...
Je n'ai pas à expliquer par quelle
EO HURB
Chronique Parisienne
sont là des prix qui n'ont j
atteuts en France, cù la be
plus élt vée a atteint 250.000
(!'ladoer contre Génaro). C
Les coulisses de la boxe - Les million-
leurs un prix fori co juet. C
nairesboxeurs - et les boxeurs miliionnaires
les jeunes boxeurs en 
quelques grosses bourses - Les procédés
'eurs poing fermés, ne sor
américains - révétations du Major Yard-
pas à des ga'ns incroy»bles
ley - la Chambre Noire de I'Amérique -
l inquisition commerciale.
Tous ces cachets sont 
nelo ; ils ront rés:r és
Les coulisses de la boxe
privilégies, sux as arrivés
Quel suj't intéressant sur les
viguear, lear gilita,
mœurs contemporaines de toute une
mais  côté combln
catégorie de gens qn: vivent un peu
gagnent p
beaucoup en marge de la socié'é!
core tous
C'est l'éiude qu'a faite un écrivain
est d'ailley

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
jammans ce qur peut ar- que a Marinique reñou
river ?
sénateur...
L EO Hu
Je n'ai pas à expliquer par quelle
sont là des prix qui n'ont
Chronique Parisienne
alteints en France, où la
plus éle vée a atteint 250.
(Pladner contre Génaro).
Les coulisses de la boxe - Les million-
leurs un prix fort co juet
nuiresboxeurs - et les boxcurs millionnaires
les jeunes boxenrs en
quelques grosses bourses - Les procédés
eurs poing fermés, ne
américains - révétations du Major Yurd-
pas à des gains incroyabi
ley - la «Chambre Noire de l'Amérique -
Tous ces cachete sont
l inquisition commerciale.
nels ; ils ront réscrier
privilégies, aux as arrive
Les coulisses de la boxe
vigueur, leur ogílité,
Quel suj't intéressant sur les
msis à côle, combien
mœurs contemporaines de toute une
gagnent p
catégorie de gens qus vivent un peu
core tous
beaucoup en marge de la socié'é!
est d'aille
bien
C'est l'éiude qu'a faite un écrivain
lorsqu'on
ots
qui a publié une demi-douzaine de
on songe
mme
rom ns, dont deux au moins on!
des :avan
ér, di
obienu du succès. M. Louis Léon-
Marlin aurait pu être avocat au par-
illustres,
gnent àp
deux
lemen'aire comme son père M. Louís
seat hun
Voir
Martin sénateur du Var; 1 a pré-
étre payexo
féré la littérature et il a écrit des
Puisqueon
monographies intéressantes à la ino-
cains, n0:0
ssant
de d'il y a cinquante ans avec une
traitent vraves v
pointe de modernisme pas du tout
ture mcroyee
désagreable. L'année passée, c'état
Nous u'autions jamais, jm
la DEMOISELLE DE L'OPERA et
cette annéo voici LES COT: ISSES
aux pro élès employés par
kees contre nous si Pun des
DE LA BOXE. Livie vivant, inté-
chof de lespionnage pendant
ressant au possible et copieusement
re, le Major Y rd ey ne no
documenté, contenant les detai's
rittoresques d'une profession qui
appris avec ( ne tare impud
est un pen à part dans la socie
qul ai re mot employer? -
gros livie qu'il vient de pu
contemporaine.
Nous n'avons pas en France des
qu'l intitule " LA CHAMBRI
RE D AERIQUE". Cert
millonnaires, comme aux Etat-
Unis, qui montent sur le ring pour
noire", qu'il faudrait dire.
Le Major Yardley se vante
le seul plaisir de casser les denis à
un adversaire cu de se faire démon-
ex; loits el donne des détals
ter la mâchoire à cops de poings.
vag nts.
Tous les goûts sont ns la nature.
Son service était chargé de
Ma's nous possédens d'anciens box-
au ciair les télégrammea secr
euts partis de I ssine ou de l'atelier
Alliés. 11 résulte de c-s révél
qui on gagné de véritables fortunes
que de (927 à 1929, quaront
au jeu dangereux, aux exercices de
imille ragports confidentiels
ce qu'on a appelè le "noble art" je
déchitfrés par la polie secrèt
ne sais d'ailleurs lts pourquo;
ricaine. Un exemple en passa
Routis, Carp ntier et Criqui, anciens
moment de la Conférence de
petits ouvri-re, possèdent aujour-
hing on, la· «Chambr• noire»
d'hui beaucoup d'argnt gagnégà la
tionna et cambriola tous le
force du poignet, c'est bien le cas
grammes chiftrés; grace à ce
de le dire.
"Les membres de la déléga
La boxe est un bon métier pour
méricaine pouvaient à la
quelques-uns — ce sont les privilé-
déjeuner, étudier en tout rep
giés - et M. Louis Léon - Martin
rapports secrets angl is et
nous apprend que le combat Demp-
relatifs aux puurpariers de la
sey-Carpentier (2 juillet 1921) où se
et prendre ainsi leurs disp
disputa le titre de champion du
pour la suite des débats.
monde, rapporta 300 000 dollars à
Quels incroyab es procèd
Dempsey, vainqueur, et 200 000 à
major avoue cyniquement.
Carpentier vaiucu. C'est en Amérique
il pas jusqu à se vanter d'ay
que Tunney, dans un match, gagna
percer Je coffre-fort dea
une beurse d'uu million de dollars,
Etrangères frençais, du quaj
ce qui représente 25 millions de
"pou. photographler la cle
francs. C'est fantastique. Le combat
fre» Qnels singuliers amis
n'avait pas duré un quart d heure.
Le chef de la police diple
Dans l'histoire de la boxe. c'est la
nous explique commen
bourse la plus considéiable. Ce
jolie espionne américaine

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
RE
AU VERT - PRÉ
amitié avec le secrétaire d'une am-
seade angliive ei s'enpra de la
of du chilfre confiée à celui-ci.»
Et le m jor se fait gloire! I1 n'a
Visite de Monseigneur
l'air de comprendre que de pa-
ils procédés sont 'ost simplement
A la future paroisse
Mshonorants:
La Chambre noire», fondée pen-
ant la guerre, a continué es tra-
Le 13 août nous avons cu l'insigne
aux après la conclusiou de la paix:
houneur de salurr au Vertpre Mon-
le a é é supprimée sevlement à la
scignurLequien. Toue la population
n de 1920
dans un élan pon'ané, a tenu à ma.
Supprimée au voint de vue diplo
nif ster à son évèque sa joie et sa
matique peut-e're, elle continuo de
reconnaissance.
onctionner au point de vue com-
mercial.
D puis près de deux mois l'ablé
L'an passé, on "pprenait non sans
Ho rah assu e le service religieux;
surprise que des Américains avaient
L'essai ayant été sati faisant uu delà
e double des liv es de commerce
de tonte espérance ( des centaines
des grand: m'g sins de P.ris et sa-
et des centaines de fidèles se pres-
sient pir con equent li vtieur exte
'nt à la messe tous les dimanches
e des marchin fises ex é liées aux
50. 60 e' plus y assis ent dins la sa
Etats Unis et la douane pmericaine
maiue. Le euré proclam- b en hout
me
va à coup súr quand elle dreese les
que les upuelques emaines passées
procès-verbaux pou in uff -ance de
rea pomnt ut parm: les plus belles de
dé laration • d va'orem. Un procès
son aposto t) Monscigoeur est ve-
contre un cai-sier révéla lan passé
nu pour encouragor c fte bonne po-
qu, celui ci avait riqu un milliin
pu'acon dans es sentim nts religieux
pour livier anx espons comnet-
et ln promeltre de l'aider à éd:fier
iaux des Eta s Unis à Pai, le dou-
le beau saactuaire que tous ils dési-
ple de la comp abilté de son patron.
rent pour leur patronne Sainte Jean
Le gouvernemant trançais fit une
ne d'Aic. ll convient Irés ben que
démarche ofticiense à W shington
pour une nature si belle, un si'e si
qui promit de cesser cemarchradage
merv i leux il f ut un supoibe édifice
i loin de n's meurs, mais it parait
qu soit ( omm: un b j u somptu-
qu'il p'en a rien fnt et qu'avec plus
eux dans un Ecrin royal. Rien de
de prudence ces procédés coutinuent
trop beau pour la pure héroine qui
comme av·nt.
sauva notre mère. la France. Seule-
Cest gtce à c s moyens qu'un
ment il a bien expliqué qu'on n'a
procès intenté par la douane de
rien sans peine. Il faudra des sacri-
New York à un grand bijou'ier de
fices. Que le qua tier com te d'a-
Paris qui ava't declaré des collie's
bord sut lui-mème.
de perles vraies conme étant des
Dieu aidant, le reste lui v eaira
erles de culture. Ue amenle enor-
par surcroit.
on
n, a été prononcée. Ce sont des
La lète tut favorisè) par un temps
ai's généralemient ignores, mais qui
splendide. Depuis 7 heures du matin
lonnent une bien piè re idre de l
par tous ls chemins aboutissant au
çon dont ces e tons amis » nous
carrefour arrivaient de, gens en i-
raitent.
manc hés et enthouviastes.
JEAN BERNARD
L's habitan's dont les demeures
bordent la route s'affairaient pour
les orner et se piquaient d'amour
UnviolentIncendie
nci
propre entreeux ; c'etait à quilerait le
mieux.
détruit la Salle Paraissiale
Tou' à coup, vers dix heures une
rumeur se produit. Un groupe impo
et le Prosbytèra da F-da-F
sant deca valiers appar. it à l'ontrée du
hemeau.
Il précéde l'auto de Moassigreur.
Lundipers tois heure; nous eumes la
Celui-ci accompagné du révérend
s desagréable surprise de voir notre C.
. F.; lieu on se rendaient pas mal de jeu
s'avance en e
nga gens de notre ville, être la proie des
petits enfante atirent p
flammes.
 les 2 heures et demi de l'a
ment son attention ; il lapote lears

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
  peo dee de 
splendide. Depais 7 heares du malis
gon dont ces e bons amis » nous
par lous les chemins abootiasanl au
reitent.
carrefour arrivaient de, gens en li-
JEAN BERNARD.
manchés et enthouviastes.
I's habitans dont les demeures
bordent la route s'affairalent pour
UnviolentIncendie
les orner et se piquaient d'amour
propre entreeux ; c'etait àquiterait le
détruit la Salle Paraissiale
mieux.
Tou! à coup, vere dix heures une
etle Presbytèra da F-da-F
rumeur se produit. Un groupe impo
sant deca valiers appar. it à l'ontrée du
hameau.
Lundivers t oin heure; nous eumes la
Il précéde l'auto de Moascigreur.
trs desagréable surprise de voir notre C.
Celui-ci accompagné du révérend
C. F.; lieu oà se rendaient pas mal de jeu
pére de Jeham mel pied à terre et
nes gens de notre ville, être la proie des
a'avance en bénissant la foule: Les
flamines.
petits enfants attirent particulière-
C'est vers les 2 heures et demi de l'a
ment son attention ; il tapote lears
près-midi que ce violent incendie éclatait à
petites joues à la graude sa istaction
la Salle Paroissiale et on ne pul s'en ren
des h ureuses mamans, Mais voilà
dre maitre que vers les cinq heures.
il att.int a un superbe arc de-triom-
Cer incendie dont on altribue la cause
phe portant bien en évidence,  d'ua
à un court-circuit prit rapidement des pro-
côlé, Homm ge à Monseigaeur, de
portions considérables; c est c mpréhensibe
quand on sait que la bibliothèque Paroissi-
l'auire, Conflance en Saint Jeanne-
ale était non loin de là, ainsi que les dé-
d'Arc. Une jeune fille e t là, à che-
cors et les costumes des jeunes gens du Cer
val, l'épée au coté, le buste cambré,
cle Catholique et des jeunes filles de Notre
portant haut et fier l'étendard sym-
us
Dame.
bolique.
vol-
Ce qui est moins compréhensible c'est
Ele souhaite la bienvenue au di-
le temps que nurent les pompiets a arriver
gne pasteur du diocese, fut l'éloge de
sur les leux ators quils ne s'en trouvent
cin
la Pucelte et réclame ponr elle un
séparés que de 5 mètres à peine.
Yan-
monum'nt digne de sa vertu, digne
Ansi ils donnetent at geu le temps de
s, le
consurner entirrement la Salle Paroissiale
de ses fits et gestes Le cor'ège pas-
guer
et mème e Preshgtere. qui au dire de lont
s)s un autre b l arc-de-triomphe
vai
le monde, pouvait etre epargré
le troisiéme, et arrive à la chapelle
ce—
Ps ne s’en occupérent que lorsque ce
provisoire ; puis il s achemine vers
s un
lui ci fut aussi la proie des flamnes.
l'endreit où s'érigera dans un avenir
er et
Ön nose penser aur consequen-
proch', nous en avons l'espoir, la ba
NOI-
ces qu'auraient cues leur façon de
silique de Sainte Jeanne d'Are. De cet
procéder et les directives suivies si, au lieu
verne
emplacement ideal la vue embrasse
du Presbytère, il s était agi d an immeuble
non entouré de quatre muirs et bien isolé.
un horizon inini.
e nes
On ne sauva rien de la Salle Paroissia-
Une ten e est dressée. Monseigneur
extra-
le mais on put enlever le Saint-Sacrement
vient s'y installer face à la foule. Le
de la Chapélie el quelques meubles du pres
represéntant du Veripré lui lit un dis-
meitre
bytére grace à l aide apportce par une
cours magnifique. L'évêque lui ré-
 des
nombreuse asststance.
pond chaleureusement el en des ter-
tions
Il est de notre devoir de rappeler à vous
mes sobres e: pathé iques félicite la
; cinq
que l'auere détruite en moins d une heu-
population de son ardeur relfgieuse.
re était ie résultat d une propagannle in-
nt élé
lassable paite pendant plus de douze ans
L'en housiasme éclate, déborde.
amé-
par les pères du Saint-Esprit el surtout
De toutes les poitrines sortent les
1. Au
lœuvre du R. P. Janin curé archiprètre de
cris répétés de: Vive Monseigneur,
Was-
la Cathédrale qui avait d abord créé te ci-
V.ve Jeanne d'Arc. Et le cortege de
fonc-
néma pour les enfants, le cercle catholique
nouveau s'avance. It atteint les der-
télé-
des jeunrs gens, la Sociét Notre-Dame, le
nières maisons. Son Excellence sur la
rvice,
Cerčte catho'ique ouorier, etc ete..,
terrasse d'une belle villa, d'un geste
on a-
Aussi souhaitons nous voir relever promp-
large et paternel, bénit, une derniere
le du
tement de ces cendres cetle ruvre adinirable
fois l'assistance qui va maintenant
et st utile a la Jeunesse de la Ville.
s'écouter lentement. Heureuse et fiè.
Pour le moment nots nous joignons à
nçais
toute la Population de Fort-de-France pour
re, pleine d'espoir elle va retourner à
veille
prier le R. P. Janin et ses vicaires de trou
sas occupations. Le Vertpré n'oublie-
itions
ver ici l'expression de nos plus profondes
ra pas de longtemp, cette imposante
sympathies.
manifestation, Que tous ceux qui en
Et le
L'AURORE
ce pays ont au cœu- la foi et l'amour
de la France, pour honorer Sainte
va-t
Jeanne-d'Aro apportent leur obole
Chll
aires
PENSEE
pour l'érection de son sanctuaire,
église du Vertpré es de toute la Mar-
L'humanité est un mot sublime
tinique.
La souscription est ouverte depuis
au nom duquel on a, pendant des
maintenant ; adresuer les cotisations
siècles commi'les pires horreurs;
à l'abpé Holrah curé du Vertpré.
et on continue.
Un habitant du Vertpré

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
Distribution salonnelle
la a larce prime le drost » qu
égolstement sa vie sur de 
exclusivement intellecluolles;
Des prix de l'Ecole Mixte
ceplion c'airo et netle do
tait chotsir le travail qui éla
Du Potit Bourg
se consacre selon ses lorces
Discours de M. Saldes
moyens au service de son pay
« Donner sa vie »
Directour de l'école de Sainte-Marie
telle est aa lormule.
Président do la Cérémonie
Puisse-t elle étre mes cherson
la vótre. Puissiez vou; toujo
(Suite et fin)
rester daus le sentier des verl
fciles» condition de vie génd
Une voix ciame :
et surabondante, senl moyen
 Que I Ecole suil en que'que sor
nel de témoigner à la France
reconnaissance puisque le seul
le le vestibule de l'atelier, la prépa-
ble d assurer le rayonnement
ration immédiate à la vie que l'en-
jours plus vil de sa bel'e civili
fant aura bienlót a vivre.
Sainte-Marie 'e 18 juillet 199
Qu on nous donne des bras, des
cervenux, des a débrouillards » ca-
E. SALDES
pables de gagner vile, bien vite; de
l'argent, beaucoup d'argent. En un
mot: des a hommes » útiles à la so-
Le Larousse du
ciété, de fortes personnalités. «
La solution que cette voix préco.
XXe siècle
nise, dans notre socièté d après guer
Nous sivois tous ce que signifie le
re, est généralement admise. Eh !
bien, Mesdames, Messieurs, dusse je
mot « lum ere. m is savons-nous que
vous paraltre que'que peu « vieux
ce terme st simple est susceptible de
jeu » « homme des neiges " je vous
plus de quarante sens différents? Com
avouerai que cet idéal n'est pas e!
bien do gens poprratent dire ce que
ne peut étre celut des èlucateurs
lon entend par lum ère noire ? Com
qui aiment le metier d'instituteur et
bien ont un: idée mème approximiti-
ve du merveilloux pouvoir que possè
qui a pour devise :
de la lumière de gué ir certaines mala
 Par I Ecole, pour la Républi-
que . Il n est pas le notre Non
dies parmi les plu: rebelles aux
La richesse n'est pas notre objec-
traitements conius jusqu'à ce jou ?.,
tif ; elle ne soutient pasdes relation;
C'est done ave le plus grand profit
nécessaires avec noire idéul. Sou-
qu'on lira l'a ticle encyctopédique que
vent même elle nuit aux sentiments
le Larousse du XYe Siècle vient de
nobles et engendre la corruption et
consacrer à ce mot : on y trouvera Tex
l'avilissement. L'instruction non
posé des connaissances de notre temps
plus, no sulfit pas. a Science sans
sur la lum èrs. Si l'on a la curiosi é
de tourner seulem ent quelques pages,
conscience n'est que ruine de l'âme
• La culture intellectuelle peut èlre
voici, sur les mo's lune et lunelle,
liée à des sentiments vulgaires « bas
de véritables ency 'opédies da science
resse devant les grands, durete en-
pure el de science pratique; sur le
vers les humbles » « Vous insistez
not lutle, une substantielle é ude qu'
sur le respect que l'on doil aux sa-
accompagne une page entière de dé
vants, écrit Perthès à son ami.
mons ration par limage; sur les mots
Soit1 Je veux bien. Mais n'oub'iez
Luxembourg, Lyon, les renseigne-
pas qu on pent être très fort en sci-
meuts les plus conplets au pint de vue
ence et en art el demeurer inlérieur
géographiqu:, his'o ique, ete No'òne,
encore les articles luxation, lumbago
en purelé d intention, en rectitude
et en véracilé au plus ignare des
lymphangite. lymphatisme da nom
breux termes scientifiques dont pusi
paysans.»
Bref. le concept de personnalité
eurs désignent des corps chirniqees
 quelqus chose d'impartait et d in-
récenment décunverta, etc, etc.
cortain. Napoléon conslilualt à
Larousse du XXo Siécle est vér
blement la clef de notre monde d
coup sür une forte personnalité ol
gui lorce fadmiralion. Il lui a man
quaique chose qui lui aurail
BOXE
puimmance, de donination
res vie » tormule de
Francis Georges surnem
le Prapeur va rencentrer

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
vold, sur les mots lude
lle poet álre
de véritables eucy clopédies
àg seatimenta valgaires « bas
sélee devant les grands, durelé en-
pure el de science pratiqu
vera les humblesn « Vous insistez
mot lutle, une substantielle é
sur a respect que l'on doil aux sa-
accompagne une page entière
vents, écrit Perlhès à son ami.
mons ration par l'image; sur les
SoilI Je veux bien. Mais n'oubliez
Luxembourg, Lyon, las rem
meuts les plus conplets au plat de
pas qu'on pent éire très lort en sci-
gáographiqu, hisiorique, ete N
emce et en art el demeurer inlérieur
an purelé d intention, en rectitude
encore les articles luxalion, lum
el en véracilé au plus ignare des
lymphangite. lymphatisme ds
paysans.»
breux termes scientifiques dont
Bref, le concept de personnalité
eurs désignent des corps chiraf
• quelqus chose d'impartait et d in-
récemment décunverts, etc, eto.
cerlain. Napoléon consliluait à
Larousse du XXe Siécle est vi
blement la cief de notre monde
coup sür une forte personnalité ol
iourd'hui
out pas lo a sype
qui force l'admiration. Il lui a man
qué quelque chose qui lui aurait
BOXE
permis de « rétréner sa passion de
gloire, de puissance, de donination
Done « Vivre sa vie » formule de
Francis Georges surnomm
oœux qui dominent par l'aclion n'est
le Frapeur va rencontrer B
pas la boane tormule. Derrière une
by Smiles au GAUMONT le
lagede de civilisation supérieure,
dessinéupur la Prospérité malériello
medi 12 septembre
on troave une véritable barbarie in
Ses partisan's seront heure
digne du nom d'humanité"
le voir à l'oœuvre
« Penser sa vie »
Il est incontes'ablement pour
formule de l'élite de I intelligence
Boxe le plus sérieux espoir Marita
n'est pas non plus la tormule de
quais.
I'homme ideal? L'ancienne Chine
Aimant passionuément son métio
avec ses examens de lelirés el de
il contie à ses poings tout soi aye-
mandarins,parvenue depuis de longs
nir.
siècles à une science et à une phio-
ll a, il est, vrai tout pour réussir.
sephie supérieures, à celles de la ci-
Jeune, possédant une force hor-
vilisation occidentale a ensuite v pié
culéenne qui, ajoutée à son courage.
liné sur placo» et elle " s'émielle
lui donnent une résistance peu;
sous la poussée de I action.»
commune.
Nous sentons qu'il y a quelque
FRANC1S. par une application 
chose de meillour et de plus grand
un travail quotidien, est en trafù
que la puissance malériolle et la
d'acquérir cè qui lui manquait: La
science. La décadence se produit tou
Science.
jours lorsque les volontéstaiblissent.
Quand il la possédera à fond, t
lorsque la majorité des individus se
pourra prétendre aux plus grands
reluse, aux sacrifices el aux renon
succès du ring.
cements inévitables landis qu'avec
Les combats de cn boxeur contre
du« caractère » tat-on d'inlelligence
les Battling--Allen, Striking Henry
médiocre on réussit toujours.
et su tout BABY SMILES on: tou
Etre vraiment un « caractère mo
été très acharnés et très intéressants
ral, tel est, cerlainement le premier
devoir de tout etre humain. Pour le
Baby Smile qui nencontrera
devonir. une forte discipline de la
Fronis Georges
volonté esl nécessaire. En poser les
C'est avec SENGALEESE le plos
premières bases, voilà. pour nous le
but de l'éducation. Former des hom-
scientifique, le plus fin das boxeurs
mes au caractère trempé, à la con-
que nous ayons vu à la Martinique.
duite rectiligne et terme, soucieux
BABY a un passé glorieux
avant lout de l'honneur privé ou
Originaire de de Santo Domingo,
protessionnel, voilà notre idéal
dont il est le chamnion, il a batt
En meme lemps que la significa-
à Barbade, ST KITTS et à la Guade-
tion la plus haute de la vie indivi-
loupe tou les adversaires qui lui ont
duelle, leacaractèro » est aussi l'idé
été opposés
al, le plus elficace auquel puisse ten
A a Martinique, il n'y a pas u
dre l'ordre colleclit. L'homme de ca
humme de son poi is capable de 
ractère cultive dans son esprit l'idé-
battre.
alisme individuel el social. Pour lui
Malgré une différence sensible
« lidéal » n'est pas de se lenir à
poids, BABY ne redoute pas d'affre
I'écart de la scane bruyante de la
er les terribles poings de FRANCh
vie, de se prelonger dans le silence
t C'est une vieille coonaixsance pod
comtemplatit d'un clottre. Il parlici
lui.- A son dernier combat il dis
po largementalactivité commune, Il
de FRANCIS " THAT MAN
se place au-dossus de la foule pour
7ERRIBLY S7 RONG " ( Cot hoi
laquelle lo tail accompli tait loi»
me est terriblement fort)

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
fait de prands
ETUDES de Me Henri AUZÉ Avo
el BABY Bnit
cat avouè Chevalier de la Légion
d'Honneur' sise à Fort de France, rue
ra pas facile. Ce-
Perriron No 40 et de Me Edouard
SAINSI-CYR notaire à la résidence
a revanche.
du Marin
CIS- Hardi (BABY-
Vente sur licitation
gugmera?
De biens entre majeurs
et mineurs avec con.
is d'Adjudication
cours d étrangers.
Publique au rabzis à
Il sera procédé le mardi huit
septembre à onze heures en l é-
Bref délai
tude de maître IN(MOI), intéri-
maire de Maitre Edouard Sain!-
Cyr, no'aire au Mariu, à la vente
Cooformément au cahier des
sur licita ion en deux lots dis-
ges dressé par M. le Maire
tincts aux enchères publiques au
Furt-ds Franoe, il sera procédé,
plus offrant et dernier enchéris.
Mardi 15 Soptembre 1931. à
seur.
thoures du matin, à l'Hotal de-
1. — Une propriété
He par Me le Maire assisté de
Dite " Bonne Source " située au
 de droit, à l'adjudicatisn publi
Vauclin de la contenance de quin-
fuo, en seul lot, au rabais sur
ze hectares, sur laquelle exi-tent
oumissions oachetées, de la four-
des arbres fruitiers, borlés au
iture de ciment nécessaire à la
Nord, par les terres Eloi Richard
Vlle pendant l'année 1931.
et Labaunne de Pluvinel ou a.
er lot Cimsnt Port'and de 180 kgs
yants droit, à l'Est, par celle de
rut
Mademoiselle Aline Tavie ou
La qualité du cimənt devra
ayant droit, à l'Ouest pir I'habi.
te indiquée et devra répondre
tetion Beauregard, la dita habiti
ux oaraotéristiques des éprauves
tion dépendant de la succession
uxquelles il est procédé ordinai-
de Madame Marie Louise M\RIE
mont par le service des Travaux
LOUISE surnommée Math Ide,
Publios
Dépot provisoira. deux cant cin-
aussi connue sous le nom de Ma
rie Malthide Aimé BEUZE. veu
juante franos.
.250 frs
qe de Monsiaur Atolphe GROS
Cautionnement définit f - ci q
DESORMEALX;
ent franos.
.500 f
-2 Un immeuble
Les offres seront établiəs sur
pier timbré, exprimées en toutes
Situé au Marin, (rand Rue con
tres et signées de; soumission
sistant en un terrain mesurant
tres qui devront assister ou se
vingt et un mètras de faça de sur
re représenter à la séance d ad
la rue et neuf de profondeur sur
dication.
lequel repose une maison bâ'ie
Dans ce dernier cas, le mandat
sur solage en maçonnerie couver
-âtre donné ou par acte pu-
to en tole, palissa dée en planches
lo ou par aote sous seings privé
d visée en plusieurs pièc;
ment enregistrés.
L'entier immeuble est borne
Hos devront être accompa-
aux différentes aires du vent par
des pouvoirs donnés par
la propriété des heritiers Mariu;
isionnsires dans le cas où
ANGUIAC, le marché communal
Taralent représenter.
et par la Grand'Rue et dépendant
rabais ou los prix unitaires
des successions confondues de
ront être énoncés en toutes let
de Madame veuve Idolphe GROS
il ne sera admis que des chi-
DESORME\UXt de M. Victo
entiors taute faction d'unité
GROS DESORMEAUX;
comptée eomme unité
Les enchères s'ouvriront sur
la mise à prix de:
ges du bureau
1. lot : CINQ MILLE FRANCS.
5.000,00
le 27 Aout 1931
2. lot : CINQ MILLE FRANCS.
sire
oi
5.000,00
Fait et rédigé à Fort-de-France,
le 13 Août 1931
PORTES
H. AUZE
L'annonce «in-extenson do la ven
ix

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
Fu  ut  prorond
léquel repose une maison bâtie
le mandat
sur solagé en maçonnerie couver
par acte pu-
to en tôle, palissadée en planches
seings privés
d visée en plusiours pièces;
L'entier immeuble est borné
 acompa-
aux différentes aires du vent par
des donnés par
la propriété des heritiers Marius
dans le cas où
ANGUIAC. le marché oommunal
résenter.
et par la Grand'Rue et dépendant
 prix unitaires
des sucsessions confondues de
soés en toutes let
de Madame veuve Idolphe GROS
ais que des chi-
DESORMEAUXet de M. Victo
faotion d'unité
GROS DESORMEAUX;
ame unité
Les enchères s'ouvriront sur
adre connaissan-
la mise à prix de:
harges du bureau
1. lot : CINQ MILLE
FRANCS
de-V.lle)
5.000,00
1027 Aout 1931
2. lot : CINO MILLE
FRANCS
Maire
ci
5.000,00
joinl 1.1.
Fait et rédigé à Fort-de-France,
le 13 Août 1931
SPORTES
II. AUZE
L'annorce «ir-extenso» de la ven
te a paru dans le journaux « 1.A
RESISTANCE » du 11 aont 1991
et du GABLO du août 1931.
tuns Rapublique numé 
errinon auméro (48).
Représentants pour la vente de chiffons
d'essugage anx Administrations, Industries
raiter: Madresser à Maitre
et Garages el pour articles de priperie de-
ETIT, Notaie
mandés par Comptoir des Dechets S.
capital Trois Million ce Frs. 21 nue Briche
Tinité
Si Denis s1seine-France.
l'insecticid
sE  E
pour les COLOP
économique
transport facile,
mélange avec
porte quelle
NE TACHE P
INODORE
167.
cticideal'e
 par la Saciété "LE FLY-TOX" 22, Rue de Marignan, Paris

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
GAUMONT
SAINVILLE PALACH
Vondredi 11 seplombre19h
Vendredi 11 septembre à 9h
Le Batailleur du Texas
Comique
"L'HOMME SANS NOM
avee Eddie Pollo
1er, 2e, 3e. 4e, épiso(es
10e, 11e, 12e, 13e. épisodes
Samedi 12 septembre à 9h
Prix: 1f 2f 3f 7f
Dans les mailles du Filet
Samedi 12 Soptembre à 9h
1er, et 2e, épisodes en 8 parties
Ciné-Roman d'aventures mouve-
BOXE
mentées tragiques et formidables
Dimanche 13 septembre à 6h et
FRANCIS GEORGES l• Frappeur
à 9h
contre BABY SMILES
L'as des Reporters
Prix: 8t 12f 20f 40f
en 6 parties
Dimanche 13 Sptembro à 6h et
avec
Charies Hutchinson
à 9h
Actualités
Cachet Miriga
La République des Jeunes flles
en 6 parties interpré èe par Kate
antinévralgiqus
Supprime en quelques minutes
de Ma ie
Pièvre, Grippe, Migraine,
"LES DEUX GAMINES
Rhamatlane. Médlonment de
shelx tesjours affloace et sams
danger. Boltes de 1 of 12 caaheta.
10e, 110, épisodes
Ta vente dona boatos henoee Phen
Prix: 2f 3f 7f 9f
à LYON-OULLINS (Fra)
Dérél & Fort-de-France: Pharmacic Didier SIFFLm
No. 19) Reproduction de la Presse-Associée
Mme Sauvignot esquissa son plus gracion
Le Roman d'une Mère
sourire et tendant la main un peu vive
ment:
Dans ce cas, je ne puis vous refus
monsieur, et j'accepte. Parler done, et 
puis vous tre utile.
par
- Voici ce dont il s'agit, commença Puy-
vardat: avez-vous connu une famille ou
MAXIME DUROSIER
nom de Bragu mond, gui habitait dans cette
rue un petit hótel, d'où elle a déménagé il
Ia Fête des Braguemond
y a environ quinze mois ?
-Braguemond ? Je crois bien ! fit la sage-
Et d'un geste très digne, elle montra
femme; des gens très riches, et pas reger.
la porte.
dants; ah! pour ça non, c'élait cossu
Puyvardall'arrêta.
eux, ils avaient mème une jolie fille,
Et d'un geste trés digne elle montrait la
Claire. Ah / elfe etait bien connue du
porte.
vre monde, je vous assure. La mère
Puyvar dat l'arréta.
uue orgurilleuse qui ne valait pas
-- Je ne viens pas pour réclamer vos soins,
mais la petite était douce et pas fière.
madame, mais pour avoir des renseignement
Puyvardat était tut orriles.
sur une fa..ille que vous devez connaitre,
-- Parfaitement ! c'est bien cett? 
car elle habitait il y a peu de temps encore
là quo je cherche; et le père quel
votre quartier.
était-re?
La sage-femme désappointée, ne put ré-
-- Un gros ai trop, jeune, ni tro
primé une grimace.
l'air souvent ennuyé, et regardant.
L'homme d'alfaires comprit qu'avant de
dans la rue, de droife et de gauché,
parl r, il fallait employet aiguments aux quels
une Ame en peine.
on recourt en pareil cas. Aussi sortant de
Tiens, qu'est-ce qui pouvait l'inquiét
sa poche une grosse bourse bien remplie, il
-- Dame, on ne sait pas; ces étran
en tira deux pièces d'or.
débarquent comme cela un beau
-- Je sais, dit-il, Madame, combien vos ins-
France, n'ont quelque fois pas la
tant sont pris par votre poubreuse clientèle
tranquille. Mais n,est-ce pas, ça c
je veux reconnaitre par cette petite somme
de chacun; et du moment qu'on et
quelques minutes que je viens vous deman-
qu'on lait gagner le pauvre mond
n'est besoin de lever le rouvercle
Mme sauvignot prit
pour répondre:
Je ne vends pas mes paroles monsieur; ou
o'étatent des étrangere
me récompense de mes soins et voilà :out.
pays, des environs m'avalt-om
-- Je suis désolé de vous affiger chère ma
Ah, pour cela mou
dame, je comprendavotre délicatesse, je
venaient fout droit
l'approuve; cependant vous ne pourres me
Tiens
rafuser ceite modeste obole, non plus pour
enfant
maía pour quelqu'une de ces pauvres

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
vre monde, je vous
Puyvardat l'arréta.
uue orgueilileuse qul me valait
- Je ne viens pas pour réclamer vos soine,
mais la petite éfait douce et pas
madame, mais pour avoir des renseignement
Puyvardat était tout oreilles.
sur une awille que vous devez connaltre,
-- Parfaitenment ! c'est bien cett
car elle habitaít, il y a peu de temps encore
là quo je cherche; et le père que
vatre quartier.
étaft-ce?
La sage-femme désappointée, ne put ré-
Un gros ai trop, jeune, ni 
primé une grimace.
l'air souvent ennuyé, et regardant
L'homme d'alfaires comprit qu'avant de
dans la rue, de droite et de gauch
parl r, il failait employer aiguments aux quels
une me en peine.
Tiens, qu'est-ce qui pouvait l'ingul
on recourt en pareil cas. Aussi sortant de
sa poshe une grosse bourse bien remplie, il
-- Dame, on ne sait pas; ces étra
en tira deux pièces d'or.
débarquent comme cela un bema
-- Je sais, dit-il, Madame, combien vos ins-
France, n'ont quelque fois pas la
tant sont pris par votre lombreuse clientèle
tranquille. Mais n,est-ce pay, ça 
je veux reconnaitre par cette petite somme
de chacun: et du moment qu'on e
quelgues minutes que je viens vous deman-
qu'on fait gagner le pauvre mon
der de perdre.
n'est besoin de lever le rouvercle
Mme sauvignot prit sa mine la plus vexée
mite pour voir se qui ent dede
pour répondre:
Certainement. Mol
Je ne vends pas mes paroles monsieur; ou
c'étazent des étrangere? Je les 
me réeompense de mes soins et voilà 'out.
pays, des environs m'avait-on dit?
-- Je suis désolé de vous affliger chère ma
Ah, pour cela non
suis
dame, je comprendsvotre délicatesse, je
venaient fout droit
e!
l'approuve; cependant vous ne pourrez me
Tiens
refuser ceite modeste obole, non plus pour
enfant
vous; mais pour quelqu'une de ces pauvres
délaisséos, comme vous devez en trouvez
souvent sur votre route,
PIPPERMiNT
Vous Pouvez Tisser Vos Hal
GET
Votre linge, vos ndeaux, vos taj
vps sacs etc.
en Laine, en Coton ou en Soie
La
VOUS-MÈMES
Reine
fa: iement - simplement - rapidement en vous ama
des
CremesMenthe
390Irs.
575
e040cm.
-60
de large
de l
LE GET SE BOIT
ATOUTE-HEURE
AVEC
ou
SANS
Grands
Médalll
EAU
PRIX
d'OR
GET FRÈRES.REVEL(H.Gr)FRANCE
MÉTIERS A TISSER A MAIN
113 bis, Av. de Neuilly (Nevilly-s.-Seine). Fran
Demandez la not gratutte
MILITOL
Neuvelle Spécialité supérieurn au SANTAL. Guérit
radicalement: Ecoulomonts mAme anaians, Crgate,
Blennorragies, Prostatite, Filameate, MALAD das
D' O. DUBAT
VOIES URINAIRES
80, Faubourg St-Denis, PARIS
Pharmacie Didier SIFFLET d Fort de France et toutes pharmacies.
SYPHILIS
TRAITEMENY
MAUX D DEN
SÉRIEUX
EFFICACE- DISCRET
Rage de Dents
Supp
facilea suivre méine
COMPRIMÉS DE GIBERT
en voyage, par les
radicale et défintive, par l'empioi
insu
of facile du-BAUE TUE-MRF
Calme instantanément la donleur,
remplaçant avantageusement le 6o@ et les piqures
contient le nécessaire pour l'obturation et
carie, assure la conservation des dents. Chag
12 ANS de SUCCES ININTERROMPUS
Très nombreuses déclarations médicales
tue ia nerf dentaire délnitdvemant. -
Comme garantie de la marque, exiger le nom et l'adreeme
BAUMETUENERFMU
Fort de-Frpace: Plurmacic Pidler 

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
la Cure au
CUROMAL
guérit
Pemal
VOILA
VOTRE
SAUVEUR
uvals sang, Humeur, Eczéma, Artério-Sclérose
rices, Rhumatismes, Maladles des, Femmes
CURoMAL, des Laboratoires du thône, à base de sucs et extraits de 23 piantes. renferme tout
la nature a produit de meilleur pour guérir le ma! Le plus puissant dépuratif purificatour t
ratour du sang. Par son action anlisaplique et laxative, if guerit la constipation, entretient la
meont l'ucide liriqic, eo se les toxines, neitoic les reins et la vessie. ll guérit l'Eczóma, les Maladies
La Peou et d: S Vrires, Lis. les Rhumatismes, Maux de Reins, Lumbago, Douleurs
oulaires, ls Ma.adies (de la Fsne (Age critique), Hémorragies, Douleurs du Ventre, Fibrome
Ja piar  dc Je uis liese de vous offirmer ma catiafuction, tous m malaises. manx de
14.1
. la pinie que avais a la jambe at complétement cicatriace.
prend du CURoMAL.
M PERRIN. & DIJon.
Laa       oe  e prti  brochure elletve  end da les bo
meses Pruua pr lo Doctur Gta 0. ph macic, I uboatoires du Rhione, 8. Rue Dolet, Lron-OLN (Praeek
Dépôt à rort-de Frunce : Pharmacie Didier sIFFLT.
l... c'est souvent fort commode de
- Cela se peut. Mais vous savez bien le
voir passer la frontière comme cela.
proverbe. « Là oùil fume, on a fait du
Alors, ces Braguemond qui avaient pas
feu.
Cette fois, Puyvardat savait ce qu'il dési-
joyeusement la frontiere étaient,
as le croyez.
rait connaitre, il salua, remercia et sortit.
Oh ! je ne crois rien du tou', c'étaient
Il était tard, la nuit était venue, mais l'omme
gens très riches, voilà tout ce que je
d'affaires ne s'en aperçevait méme pas, il na-
ux vous di e.
geait en pieine espérance. ll rentra chez lui,
La age-femme se leva:
se fit servir un bon petit diner qu'il dévora
-Je suis obligée de vous quitter, Monsieur
de l'appètit d'un homme satisfait de lui-mèm
 je dois aller voir une pauvre fille nou-
De temps en temps, il s'arreta dans son re
mliement mère qui m'atiend avec impa-
pas pour se frotter joyeusemeat les mains tout
Uence: elle est dans une détresse.
eul murmurait en se flatant.
Et madame Sauvignot ponclua sa phrases
-- Quel flair, mon vieux Puyvardat 1
d'un air entendu.
Des canailles, ces chàtelains I ces mil-
L-homme d'affaires ne fit pas la sourde
lionnaires ! des voleurs peut-être 1.. Ah/
oreille. ll se leva, et prenant un nouveau
ah Beauséjour, mon ami vous étes un
louis dans sa bourse;
veinaru! La jolie Claire va devenir vo-
Pour la pauvre fille madame.
tre lemme, vous paierez vos dettes etvous
La matrone esquissa un sourire et la pièce
serez l'hoinme le plus heureux de la ter-
or disparut dan sa poche.
re, si vous savez entrer dans la peau du
Payvardat se dirigeat vers la porte.
Merci, madame, encore une fois pour
sage.
apelques renseignements que vous m'a-
X
onnès, mais il est bien fâcheux que
ne sachiez rien de plus sur cette fa-
Puyvardat continue son enquète
car j'ai un de amis qui vous en au-
Le lendemain vers vers neuf heures,
ébien leconnaissant.
comme M. Puyvardat venait de s'asseoir
'apprêtait à sortir, quand Mme Sau-
sot s'écria tout à coup:
dans son cabinet en tète à lète avec des
Ah mais ne par'er donc pas si vite, voi-
dossiers, un petit coup de clochette bien
mémoire qui me revieni; attendes donc
discret retentit dans son antichambre.
ebliais.. mais j'ai donnè mes soin
-- Tiens, je parie que c'sst le larbin des
leurs bonne une petite très gen-
Tourelles, fit l'homme d'affaires en re-
levant la tête: allons il a élé exact au ren-
lle en isaut de belleg sur leur
dez-vous, il dira lout ce qu'il sait..
ges e aVoulu 
Presque aussitôl la perie sorit
Sarmer dans son pays ils lui ont payé le
un gamin, à l'air fate, paral:
page à elie et san mari, et ils sont partis
- C'est un monsieu qui a refasé de
une malle p'eine de cadeaux,
Ca n'btait pas naturel.
dire son nom, mais il assure qu'sl viènt
 pas ? Mais à ce qu'il parait, ils
sur une convocation de msoesiear.
et ils parleient
- bien. qu'll etre1

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
ne nt pes la sourde
leva, et prenant un nouveau
  bourse;
Pour la nauvre flle. madsme.
matrone esquissa un sourire et la pièce
disparut dan sa poche.
seres l'homme le plus heureus de la ter.
dat se dirigeat vers la porte.
re, si vous savez entrer dans la peau du
inadame, encore une fois pour
sage.
renseignements que vous m'a-
X
mais il est bien fâcheux que
chies rien de plus sur cette fa-
Puyvardat continae son. enquèle
ai un de amis quí vous en au-
Le lendemain vers vers neaf heures,
den leconnaissant.
apprètait à sortir, quand Mme Sau-
comme M. Puyvardat venait de s'ssseoir
jaet sácria tout à coup:
dans son cabinet en tete à lête avee dem
Ab mais ne par'er donc pas si vite, voi-
dossiers, un petit coup de clochelle bien
ja mémoire qui me revieni; attendez donc
discret retentit dans son antichambre.
oi qui oubliais.. mais j'ai donnè mes soin
- Tiens, je parie que c'sst le larbin des
me de leurs bonne une petite très gen-
Tourelles, fit l'homme d'affaires en re-
He, qui étalt mariée aves leur valet de
levant la táte: allons il a álé exact au ren-
mbre alle an disast de belles sur laur
, onje vous assare; ene a Voulu sn
tourner dans son pays ils lui ont payé le
un gamin, à l'air futeè, parut:
voyage à elle et son mari, et ils sont partis
C'est un monsieu qui a refusé de
avéc une malle p'eine de cadeaux.
dire son nom, mais il assure qu'l viont
Ce n'était pas na!urel.
sur une convocation de monsieur.
-- N'est-ce pas ? Mais à ce qu'il parait, ils
bien, qu'il entre !
étaient renseignés tous deux et ils parlaient
quelquefois trop. disant que leur mensieur
était mn vieux coquin qui était parti de chez
A suivre
lui aprèa avoir fait des bétises.
sivoussouffrez
de maladies d'estomac, de digestions pénibles,
de constipation, d'entérite, de névralgies, d'af-
fections des reins ou de la vessie, de douleurs,
de rhumatismes, maux de tête, vertiges, etc...
Si vous êtes atteint d'hémorroides, de varices,
de plaies aux jambes, de maladies de la peau,
eczéma, psoriasis, dartres, boutons, démangeai
1erMars1931
LATISANE DES CHA-
sons, ctc.... Supprimez la cause en prenant la
TREU Li'a guéri d'une ma
TISANE des CHARTREUX
ladie des voies urinaires
qui me faisait horrible-
de DURBON
ment souffrir.
Martial Quassivi
aux sucs des plantes des Alpes qui, en dépurant
Grand-Lalou
le sang, vous rendra la santé comme elle l'a fait
(Cote d'ivoire)
pour des milliers d'autres.
Si vous êtes pâle, anémique, faible de nerfs,
neurasthénique, déprimé, sans forces et sans
courage, adoptez le traitement combiné des
PILULES SUPERTONIQUES des CHAR-
TREUX DE DURBON et de La tisane, qui,
associant le dépuratif au tonique, vous procurera
un rétablissement rapide et complet.
le BAUME SOUVERAIN pour les maladies de la peau, dans les Pharmacies.
PAICLESSE
DÉCILITÉ
EMIE
GIROP*
DESCHIENS
à l'mémoglabine

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
5
F
ULPA
RECEIVED
091 12 193
A.U
HECORDS
The Daily Mirror
of Washington
fe
By CLINTON W. GILBERT
894.727/19 2/5
Suppression of Indiscreet Books
Is Not Easy in America
Washington, Oct. 4.
stand why the American Government
did not suppress the Yardley book "Black
Chamber," which discloses the decoding
by the Americans of the secret dispatches
passing between the Japanese Govern-
ment and the Japanese delegation at the
Washington Naval Conference. Abroad
such a book would have been suppressed.
But here suppression is not easy. The
American Government probably knew
nothing about the intention to publish
5
such a book until it was out and on
sale, and then the damage was done. It
is impossible ever to recover all copies
of a book once it has been placed on
sale.
There is, of course, a law against an
employe of the American Government
OCT16 1931
retaining documents that belong to the
Government. Under that law the author
FILED
of "Black Chamber" could have been
prosecuted for retaining and publishing
the documents he decoded and published.
But for the Government to begin prose-
cution would have been for it to confess
that his story was true and that the
Government had been guilty of the dis-
creditable act of obtaining and decoding
messages passing between its guests here,
the Japanese delegates, and their Gov-
ernment at home. And that was the
last thing the Government cared to do.
22
Nor would it have done any good for
the American Government to deny Mr.
Yardley's story that he did decode and
furnish to the State Department the
secret messages of the Japanese Govern-
ment to its delegates at the Washington
conference. The Japanese Government
would know only too well whether the
versions published by Yardley were true
versions of its secret messages. And
apparently they were, for they haven't
been denied in Japan, where they created
an enormous sensation. So the only
American Glovernment could

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
F
RECEIVED
OCT 12 1931
DIVISION OF
RECORDS
The Daily Mirror
of Washington
f'g
894.727/19
By CLINTON W. GILBERT
Suppression of Indiscreet Books
Is Not Easy in America
Washington, Oct. 4.
stand why the American Government
did not suppress the Yardley book "Black
Chamber," which discloses the decoding
by the Americans of the secret dispatches
passing between the Japanese Govern-
ment and the Japanese delegation at the
Washington Naval Conference. Abroad
such a book would heve been suppressed.
But here suppression is not easy. The
American Government probably knew
nothing about the intention to publish
such a book until it was out and on
sale, and then the damage was done. It
is impossible ever to recover all copies
of a book once it has been placed on
sale.
There is, of course, a law against an
OCT16 1931
employe of the American Government
retaining documents that belong to the
FILED
Government. Under that law the author
of "Black Chamber" could have been
prosecuted for retaining and publishing
the documents he decoded and published.
But for the Government to begin prose-
cution would have been for it to confess
that his story was true and that the
Government had been guilty of the dis-
creditable act of obtaining and decoding
messages passing between its guests here,
the Japanese delegates, and their Gov-
ernment at home. And that was the
last thing the Government cared to do.
22
Nor would it have done any good for
the American Government to deny Mr.
Yardley's story that he did decode and
furnish to the State Department the
secret messages of the Japanese Govern-
ment to its delegates at the Washington
conference. The Japanese Government
would know only too well whether the
versions published by Yardley were true
versions of its secret messages. And
apparently they were, for they haven't
been denied in Japan, where they created
an enormous sensation. So the only
course the American Government could
pursue was the one it did pursue, of
ignoring Yardley's book.
The coding of international govern-
mental messages is apparently diplomatic
child's play. Any good code expert, given
time, can decode messages sent in code.
Frequent changes of codes may puszle
the experts for a while. But the busi-
ness of decoding the secret messages of
Governments is an old practice. Every
Government has done it. Fortunately,
the American Government is said to have
abandoned the practice even before the
publication of the Yardley book.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
JAS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
MMP
Los Angeles, California
August 27, 1931
3:36 p. m.
Department of State,
Washington
H9.25/770
Ebell club, with membership or tuenty five hundred
splendid women, is desirous of engaging Herbert O. Yardley,
author of American Black Chamber, for lecture to their club
but will not do so if his work is disapproved by State
894.727/19
Department or is in any way against public interest. I
would personally appreciate a reply from you in this regard
and will hold the same strictly confidential if you wish.
Very respectfully,
JOE CRAIL
MEMBER HOUSE COMMITTÉE FOREIGN AFFAIRS
5
15
HPD
J131933
FILED

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.89)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-138
CONFIDENTIAL COGE
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
artment
PLAIN
OR
Shalletr gu pr
Washington,
▲ugust 28, 1931.
Hou. Jee Orail,
Momber, House Committee Foreign Affairs,
Los Angeles, California.
Roceipt is acknowledged of your telegram of
August 27. The Department appreciates your bringing
土
this matter to its attention.
confidential
8
3.2
In reply and for your information only, the
Department considers further discussion or publicity
of the subject referred to in your message would not
2
public
3.
serve any useful purpose or be in the
interesty
691
WR (dule
5
ais
Aoting Seoretary-of State.
7
sk
119.85/770
Rsm
DCR
FE:RSM:EJL
FE
H.w.
D.9.S.
Enciphered by
3CDRAuN)
Indes Bu.—No.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
August 28, 1931.
FE:
It is suggested that a reply somewhat along the follow-
ing lines be made to Congressman Crail's telegram of August
27th, herewith:
"Receipt 1s acknowledged of your telegram of August 27.
The Department appreciates your bringing this matter to its
attention.
In reply and for your information only, the Department
considers further discussion or publicity of the subject re-
ferred to in your message would not serve any useful purpose
or be in the best interests of this Government."
1.4.8

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.89)
SA
PM RECD
1932
Wednesday, January 27, at 8.30 P.M.
A lecture by Major Hubert O. Yardley,
former Chief of the Cryptographic Bureau
of the U. S. Military Intelligence, entitled
"The American Black Chamber."
Major Yardley has an amazing story to tell of
intrigue, ingenuity, expert sleuthing and high
romance, and he tells it in a manner delightful to
hear.
FFB -1 32
To the Siec.p. State
WAsh. D.C.
6
The lectun at the Harvard Clule recents
6
f which me heard wily th Majpni stoy
The thought occun-that he hor unusual
 eceptimre rale to you-and to our
-ltell
countig -a
Aeek hin out
1992
his addun.
Reopectfuls Sul bted
Tainni E.Bufr
1/3

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.89)
February 10 1852.
Er. Devie I. Buff,
Buff & Buff Mfg. Compary
894.7
H
Jamica Plain, Massachusetts.
sixt
I beg to acknowledge the receipt of and to
/802
thant you for the information contaimed in your
letter of th Blst ultimo with referene to a
Leeture given before the Harvard Club on Jamary
27, 1932, by Majer Herbert 0. Yardley.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
WINBUR J. CARR
Assistant Seoretary.
n.98
DCR ARL: IU
A ue copy of
the sgned orig
UR

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFICATION 
f 5-20-64   ,  t.
W.d. m danger Baie 4/7/05
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4.l0
THE UNDER SECRETDIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 13 1932
September 12, 1932.
ARTMENTOF STATE
DEP
STATE
DOETVED
MANCHURIA SITUATION
SEP
Mew Book Being Prepared by Major Yardley.
DIVINION OF
RECORDS
Reference is made to a separate memorandum of even
date entitled "Manchuria Situation: Antipathy in Japan
894.727
to United States".
711
The information given me from an outside source to
the effect that Major Yardley is about to publish a new
894.727/20
book and that in this book he intends to give the texts
of many secret telegrams of the Japanese Government and
its representatives has been given by me orally to
Mr. Castle.
I cannot too strongly urge that, in view of the
state of excitement which apparently prevails in Japanese
public opinion now, characterized by fear of or enmity
SEP11932.
toward the United States, every possible effort shoud
be made to prevent the appearance of this book. Its
appearance would contribute substantially to the amount
of explosive material which seems to be piling up in
Japan.
FE:SKH/ZMF

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY
R
4/20/49
To: DC/R Files
We are returning the
attached correspondence on
the Yardley book to you.
Thanks very mush.
E. Goodwin
(For W. P. Armstrong, Jr.)

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
NDEN SEGRETARY
FED 1 7 1933
FEB 20 1933
AR S
nerfice
DEPAETMENT GE STATE
The following letter received this date by the Department of Justice
F/HS
from their U. S. Attorney in New York City:
UUPA
RECERV
24
"I have just learned from the MacMillan Company that
COMM
they have received a book from Yardley, through another
894.727/21
agent, entitled "Japanese Diplomatic Secrets". If for
any reason the Department of Justice or the War Department
is anxious to read this book, I think I could arrange it
if it could be done promptly.
On the other hand, if you desire to read the book
only in the event that MacMillan desires to publish it
subject to the approval of the department, I can arrange
that.
894.727
The important thing is that MecMillan carnot properly
keep the book more than about ten days; and if the War
Department desires to examine it, please let me know at
your earliest convenience."
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 20 1933
Depertment of State
W.
FEB·24·1933

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
80
N D Ary: letter
THE UNDER SECRETARY
64 fm , Ste Dept.
APR 20 1933
0. Sanyer  4/7/6
APR 14 1933
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NOTED
女
DEPAPTMENT OF STATE
LE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
April 13, 1933.
RECEIVED
F
APR 2 1 1933
1
m
DIVISION OF
THE YARDLEY PUBLICATIONS.
S
P
Senator Van Nuys' Secretary called me this morning
and inquired whether I would see a Mr. Nab, a lawyer
894.727/22
from Indianapolis, regarding the publication of a new
issue of "THE AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER", by Yardley.
Mr. Nab called a few minutes later and stated that
894.729
he represented the Indianapolis publishers, The Bobbs-
Merrill Company; that the company had originally printed
13,000 copies of the book and still had on hand some 700
copies of that issue; that it had made arrangements with
another publisher, The Blue Ribbon Printing Company, I
think he said, to print 15,0oo additional copies to sell
for $1.0o a copy, and that the books had been printe
but not issued. He also stated that his clients, Th
Bobbs-Merrill Company, had a copy of Yardley's manuscript
for the contemplated new book, but that they had refused
to print it and would take no more work from Yardley.
He referred to the provision in the bill pending in the
Senate "without authorization of competent authority",
and was desirous of knowing who the competent authority
would be and how application should be made with respeot
to the books now on hand.
I

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
I told him that a discussion of the subject at this
time was premature, but that if the bill should become
law and he should then address a communication to the
Department explaining the facts as he had related them
to me, the matter would be given consideration, and that
if it should be concluded that another Department of the
government should be consulted, such action would be taken.
Mr. Nab voiced no objection to the bill and seemed
to be entirely satisfied with the conversation, stating
that he merely desired to ascertain the procedure to be
followed in laying the situation before the competent
authority to which the bill refers.
M
Le GHH:AD

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.95)
#
Hearsts International
RACEIVL
1933
Cosmopolitan
combinedwith
Payne Burton
11.10
BurtMacBride
Editor
Tom Davin
NDER SECRETARY
Kalhryn Bourne
Firlerventh Street at Eighth Avenue
Art Director
RECEIVED
RalphE.Whitney
MAY 29 1933
NEW YORK CITY
MAY 2 6 1933
Ile
DEPARTMENT DF SLATE
DIVISION OF
1
May 25, 1933
Division of
m
(1-1
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
guame 1.1933
JUN-31933
une1983
Department of State
Dear Sir:
In a recent issue of T E SATURDAY REVIEr: OF LITEATURE appeared
a statenent that Hajor Herbert Yurdley's unpublisned took, tenta-
894.727/
tively called "Japanese Diplomatic Secrets" had apparently en-
gaged the attention of the State Department. From a source nere
in New York, we heard upon inquiry that publication of this manu-
script had been prohibited by the government.
Feeling that perhaps there might be parts of this book that the
Stato Department would gladly see published, and might even feel
should be published, we are writing you for an opinion.
2
3
I telephoned Mr. Raymond Moley the other day, since we mow him
through an article he recently rote for us. e said a question
of this kind was not in his province and the proper procedure was
for us to address you.
Our point, to repeat, is that you may feel certain parts of "Japanese
Diplomatic Secrets", through being published in a magazine of huge
circulation and of unquestional e prestige such as Cosmopolitan,
would perform a patriotic duty.
I have no doubt thet we could arrange with the author for publication,
provided the State Department gave its permission.
Confidential File
We would be extremely grateful for your decision on this matter as
early as possible, so that it might be possible for it to appear in
an early issue of Hearst's International-Cosmopolitan Magazine.
Yours truly,
JUN 8 - 1933
FILED
Bunrr macBride
The Hon. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.
BM/S

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
'June 1 1983
894.727/23
My dear Mr. MacBride:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of
May 25, 1933, referring to a manusor1pt written by
Mr. Herbert Yardley and tentatively named "Japanese
Diplomatio Secrets" and inquiring whether there are
parts of thie manusoript whioh the Department would
gladly see published and might even feel ahould be
published.
In reply, you a
informed that information to
the effeot that publication of this manusoript has
been prohibited by the Government is misleading.
However, on the basis of such knowledge as the
Department has of the contents of the manmsoript.
it 1s the Department's estimate that no objeotive
Confidential File
of
Mr. Burt MaeBride.
Hearst's Internatienal,
Fifty-seventh Strest at Eighth Arenne.
New York. New York.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
of Ameriean poliey or interest of the United States
would be advantageously served by the publieation
of any portion of the manusoript.
Sincerely yours,
William Phillips
Aoting Seoretary.
A true copy of
the stentg origi-
na
FE1 SKH/VDM
FE
5-31-33
n

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.92)
REPLY TO
RNEY GENERAL"
LALS AND NUMBER
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FMP-ZCB
DCR
FMP-
WASHINGTON, D. C.
219336-
May 29, 1933.
REOEIVI
Ail
F/G
1933
DEVISLON OF
LAY EASTEHI AFFLIRS
0905
M193
AN.
894.727
The Hono rable
The Secretary of State.
Attent ion: Dr. Hornbeck.
894127
Sir:
There is transmitted herewith for such action as you may deem
2
4
advisable a copy of a letter dated May 7, 1933, torether with copy
of inelosure, receiveu from the tnited States Attorney at New York
City with reference to an article aoout Major Herbert O. Yardley,
entitled SPILLI..G InRiATIuNAL scR Ts, which it i. stated will appear
in the next issue of the Real Detective a azine.
Respectfully,
For the Attorney General,
Drank M
FRANK M. PARRISH,
Acting L ead of the Crininel Division.
Inclosure #722328.
JUN 3 1933
FILED

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
Jilet
 Mr.Stern
EPARTMENT OF STATE
Diyision of
OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Seeretary to
JUN 28 1933
Senator Vin Nv
Indion.
June 17, 1933
Department of State
Major Yardley and "The American Black Chambei"
F
Mr. Stern, secretary to Senator Van Nuys of Indiana,
工
called on Mr. Hackworth and was referred by Mr. Hackworth
S
to Mr. Hornbeck.
Mr. Stern presented and left with Mr. Hornbeck a letter
894.727/
from D. L. Chambers, of the Bobbs-Merrill Company, of date
June 14, 1933, and two copies of a petition addressed by the
Bobbs-Merrill Company to the Secretary of State, undated, of
which one copy is here attached.
2
The petition of the Bobbs-Merrill Company is self-
5
explanatory. The Company asks that the Department of State
give it "permission to continue sales of 'The American Black
Chamber' without restriction." Mr. Stern requests "urgent" action.
COMMENT :
Inasmuch as the "Black Chamber" was first published in
June 1931, has sold to the extent of approximately 13,500
copies and is still in the hands of distributors to the
extent of some four thousand copies, it would seem that there
is no good reason why the Government should make any attempt
to suppress that book. However, with regard to the question
of the Department's giving an express "permission to continue
sales . . . . without restriction", it is believed that such
foritle en in y a ths.
FE:SKH/ZMK
SKH.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.71)
Mm. Haclant
i nstisf ilt
.ma. He
the rutn
 question qim
a merrou you
ondr
tact.
SAH

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
MENT OF STATE
MON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 20, 1933.
LE.
Mr, Hackworth:
U.
Mr. Phillips:
This draft now stands as
submitted in the rough by me and
tentatively approved by you
earlier today.
Upon final review of it,
I wonder whether it might not be
further improved by the omission
of the first sentence in the
second paragraph.
SKH
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
June 20 195 3
A
of 5-20-64 from Dunds 1. Simon, State Dapt
By 1. 2 dargec Date u/9/65
Mr. D. L. Chambers,
Vice President, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
894.727/25
185 Madison Avonue.
New York, Now York.
Sir:
Referenoe 1s made to the petition of The Bobbs-Merrill
Company for permission to sell copies of "The American
Black Chamber", addressed to the Seoretary of State, un-
dated, but subsoribed and sworn to before a notary publio
on the 14th day of June, 1933, in conolusion of whioh you
ask that the Company be given permission to continue sales
of "The American Blaok Chamber" without restriotion, copies
of which petition have been brought to the Department of
State by Mr. Stern, secretary to Senator Van Nuys.
It is not clear whether the Aot for the proteotion
of Government records, approved June 10, 1933, applies to
CO1
distribution of materials published before the enactment
of that law, nor is it oloar whether, if it should be held
that the Aot is so applicable, this Department would be the
"oompetent authority" to authorize or to objeot to such
distribution.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.93)
Gistribatien. This Department has net hitherte been cem-
sulted with regard to the publication or distribution of
the beek under reference. I feel that it would not be
appropriate or practioable for it now to make any state-
ment or take any action which might be construed as imply-
ing its approval of the publication and/or distribution
of that book. As any prosecution under the Aot presumably
would devolve upon the Department of Justice, I would sug-
gest that you might deem it desirable to consult that
Department.
Yours very truly,
William Phillips
Aoting Seoretary of State.
A true copy of
the gged origi-
GL
FISKH/ZMK
SKH

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFICATION CANCELLEA:
DCR
of 5-20-64 from Donalé 1. Simon, Slate Dept.
By d.m. darger Date u(9/65
Jone 20 198 3
My dear Mr. Stern:
894.727/25
Referring to our conversation on June 17 and
the petition of The Bobbs-Merrill Company whioh you
submitted, I enclose herewith a copy of a letter
which the Department is sending Mr. D. L. Chambers;
and I return to you the letter from Mr. Chambers to
Senator Van Nuys of June 14 which you at the same
time left with me.
Yours very truly,
SkH
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Enclosures:
From Department to
Mr. D. L. Chambers;
From Mr. D. L. Chambers
A true copy of
to Senator Van Nuys, dated
ned origi-
June 14, 1933.
nal
Mr. Ben Stern,
Seeretary to Senator Van Nuys,
Senate Orfice Building,
hington, D. C.
TE:BXI/ZIK

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
Jun 20
Mr.. . Chambers.
Vice President, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
l80 ad1son Avenue,
New York, ew York.
sir:
Referrind to the petition of The Bobbs- errill
Jompany for permission to sell copies o: "The merican
Black Chamber", sddrecsed to the eoretary of State.
andated, but eubeorlbed and sworn to belore a notary
publ1o on the 14t) day o June. 193s, in conolusion of
whioh you ask that the compan be iven ermieeion to
continue sales of "The merioan Blaok hamber" without
rostriotion, copies oi whion petition have been brought
to the partment o: tate by r. tern, sooretary to
Sonator Van Nuys.
It 1s not olear from the Aot in queet1on, H.. 4220.
approved June 10, 1933, whether 1t was intendod to cover
a publioation or tho oharaoter oi the book in question,
nor is it olear whether, if it should be held that the
Lot le applioable, this Department would be the
"competont

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
"competent authority" to grant the permission required by
the Aot. 1 may state, however, that in so far as thie
Dopartment is coneerned it hee no objeetion to the oon-
tinuenee of sales of  The merican lmo hamber" with
contents as t text identieal with the contents of the
book as hitherto published. ince an prosecution under
the Aot preeumebly would dovolve upon the Department of
Juetice I would eucceet that un a precautionary measure
you might deem it desirabl to coneult that veyartment.
In doine so you may be free to inform it oi the viows
herein expressed.
Youre very truly.
otingseoretrtate.
the
FE: SI H: EJL
FE
6/19/33

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
PY:ZMK
Established 1838
THE BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY
PUBLISHERS .. INDIANAPOLIS
New York Orfice
June 14th 1933
185 Madison Avenue
Dear Senator Van Nuys:
In acoordance with the telephone conversation which
Mr. W. H. Thompson, our attorney, had with you today, I
am enclosing you herewith petition of The Bobbs-Merrill
Company in duplicate for permission to sell copies of THE
AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER.
As you will note in the verified showing, this book
was published on June 1, l93l, more than two years ago,
and nearly 13,500 copies have been sold by us.
In November, l93l, we entered into a contract with
Blue Ribbon Books, Inc., for the sale of copies of this
book and that company has distributed approximately 4,500
copies to jobbers and retailers, and undoubtedly many of
the copies have been sold but a good many yet remain to
be sold. You can appreciate the disturbance to the sales
organization if it were necessary at this time to notify
these dealers not to proceed with the sale of the books.
This we desire to avoid and hope that the Department of
State may see fit immediately to issue a permission to us
for the sale of these books. Of course, if they should
decline to do this we would feel as a matter of policy
that we would want to give prompt notice to everyone who
has these books in his possession and is offering them for
sale, if they can be traced.
In our opinion, there is nothing in THE AMERICAN BLACK
CHAMBER that violates the new law; but the penalties imposed
are so severe that we would not feel disposed to proceed with
distribution till this petition has been granted.
Further, if the petition is allowed, the Department may
rest assured that no publicity or advertising emanating from
The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Blue Ribbon Books or their agen-
cies will intimate in any way that such special permission
has been asked or granted. The whole matter wili be kept in
strict confidence and the sale will proceed in a perfectly
normal and discreet course.
I would like to add that a refusal now to permit further
sales of this book, which has already had nation-wide dis-
tribution both through our publication of it and in the serial
articles of Major Yardley in the Saturday Evening Post would,
in my opinion, over-emphasize the importance of the publication.
I

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
I certainly appreciate your kindness in giving atten-
tion to this matter and trust that we may procure a permit
at an early date. If any further information is needed we
will be very glad to furnish it. I will be in Washington
on Sunday, June l8th, and can be reached in care of Mrs.
W. A. Mearns, 9 Primrose Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland,
telephone Wisconsin 3484. Meanwhile, I can be reached
in care of The Bobbs-Merrill Company, l85 Madison Avenue,
New York C1ty, telephone Ashland 4-6860.
Sincerely yours,
D. L. CHAMBERS
The Hon. Frederick C. Van Nuys
United States Senator
Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
1 1 S Dept
Byd . 
1
PETITION OF THE BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY
FOR PERMISSION TO SEIL COPIES OF "THE
2
AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER"
3
Divio
4
FAR EASIERN AFFAIRS
5
TO THE HONORABLE, THE SECRETARY OF STATE
JUN 28 1933
6
OF THE UNITED STATES:
Department of State
894.727/25
7
The Bobbs Merrill Company, an Indiana corp ora-
8
tion, having its principal office and place of business at
9
10
Indianapolis, Indiana, respectfully petitions for authorization
11
to sell and dispo se of copi es of "The American Black Chamber",
12
and shows in support of this petition:
13
"The American Black Chamber" by Herbert O.
2
14
Yardley, was published by The Bobbs Merrill Company on June 1,
15
1931, and to date a total of approximately 13,490 copies have
16
been sold.
The book has had wide publicity end distribution.
17
Prior to such publication a substantial portion
18
of the contents of such book had been published serially in The
19
Saturday Evening Post.
The author, Herbert O. Yardley, had
20
written your petitioner under date of March 18, l93l, a letter,
a copy of which is anmexed hereto and made a part hereof, wherein
21
he stated that: "My superiors in the Government's service knew
22
at the time that I took and retained copies of the various
23
24
letters and messages referred to in my manuscript.
There has
never been any objection thereto made to me, nor any request made
25
26
upon me by any officer of the Government for the return of such
ED
copies."
27
28
After such publicat ion, and on November 27,
20
l93l, your petitioner entered into a contract with Blue Ribbon
30
Books, Inc., a copy of whioh is annexed hereto and made a part

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
1
hereof, for the sale of copies of such book. This contract is
2
still in force, and a large number of copies of the book have
3
been printed, and some 4,500 additional books distributed.
4
All such copies were printed, and petitioner has
5
incurred substantial expense therefor, without any objection
6
or protest or intimation of objection from or on behalf of any
7
government or governmental authority.
8
A certain manuscript by said Herbert O. Yardley
9
for a new book on codes was submit ted to petitioner during the
10
summer of l932 and petitioner declined to publish the same;
11
which facts petitioner made known to a then Assistant Attorney
12
Genoral of the United States; and at that time no objection
13
whatsoever was made by said ssistant Attorney General to the
14
continued publication of "The American Black Chamber".
15
If, by virtue of the provisions of the Official
16
Secrets Act (H.B. 4220), sales of such book must cease, your
17
petitioner will incur a heavy financial loss.
18
Therefore, your petitioner asks that it be given
19
permission to continue sales of "The American Black Chamber"
20
without restriction.
21
22
THE BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY
23
By S2Chamhers
24
Its Vice-President
25
26
STATE OF NEW YORK,
ss.
27
COUNTY OF NEW YORK,
28
Subscribed and sworn to before me this
14
day of
29
June, 1933.
Eugemi P Hiocans
30
My Commission will expire
Notary Public.
e   
TC
1.
Naa iH
Count No. 213
NO
orounty 0.5日526
mmiss.on Expires March 30, 1935.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 1.00)
1
Maroh 18,1931.
2
3
The Bobbs-Merrill Company,
4
Indianapolis.
5
Gentlemen :
6
With reference to the manuscript of my book entitled
"The American Black Chamber":
7
None of the messages therein referred to, other than
8
certain wireless messages exchanged between Germany and Mexico,
were sent by radio. They came by cable.
9
With respect to every cablegram referred to in such
10
book, the copies thereof to which I refer therein were
obtained by the consent and authority of the respective
11
presidents of the Western Union Telegraph Company and of the
Postal Telegraph Company over the wires of one or the other
12
of such companies such messages were transmitted.
knew
13
My superiors in the Government's service/at the time
that I took and retained copies of the various letters and
14
messages referred to in my manuscript. There has never been
any ob jection thereto made to me, nor any request made upon
15
me by any officer of the Government for the return of such
copies.
16
I shall be glad to furnish at once the originals or
17
photostatic copies of such files, letters and doouments as
Mr. Chambers will indicate to me he desires to retain
18
temporarily, pending the publication of this manuscript and for
a reasonable time thereafter. It is understood, of course,
19
that I may have access to these files and copies thereof if
needed by me during the period of such retention.
20
21
Very truly,
22
23
(Signed)
Herbert O. Yardley
24
25
26
27
28
29
30

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
1
AGREEMENT made this 27th day of November, 1931, by and
2
between BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY, Publishers, hereinafter referred
3
to as the Seller, and BLUE RIBBON BOOKS,INC., of New York
4
hereinafter referred to as the Buyer, in the matter of a reprint
5
edition of
6
THE AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER by Herbert O. Yardley
7
1. In consideration of the sum of $l.0o (One Dollar) receipt
8
of which is hereby acknowledged, and in further consideration
9
as mentioned in Paragraph 2 of this agreement, the Seller hereby
10
agrees and conveye to the Buyer the exclusive selling right, for
11
a period of three years from publication, and subsequently
12
unless termina ted by the Seller on six months' written notice
13
to print, bind and sell popular priced reprint editions of
14
said ti tle in a series known as BLUE RIBBON BOOKS,INC. The
15
publishing rights of said book are now owned by the Seller and
16
are not subject to any prior contract or lien which may
17
interfere with the rights of the Buyer under this agreement. The
18
seller hereby agrees to place at the disposal of the Buyer and
19
deliver F.O.B. New York to such printers as the Buyer may
20
designate the electrotype plates, together with the plates of
21
illustrations and jackets and binders dies for use of the
22
Buyer in the manufacture of these books.
23
2.
The Buyer agrees to pay the Seller one half four months
24
from publication date and one half six months from publication
25
date net a royalty of ten cents (lox) per copy on a minimum
odition of Fifteen thousand (15,000) copies.
26
27
3.
Publication date is to be after September lst, l932.
28
It is understood that the plates shall be handled with care
29
and returned to the Seller, if he should so wish, after each
30
printing, in perfect condition, subject only to the usual wear

=== Page 120 === (confidence 1.00)
1
and tear of use. The Seller shall have the use of plates for
2
printing editions for his own stock during the period of this
3
agreement.
4
4.
Printer's affidavit shall be supplied to the
5
Seller as soon as each edition is off the press; and if editions
6
beyond the minimum edi tion are required, the Buyer shall no tify
7
the Seller that they have printed a further edition and
8
royalties on this, at the rate of ten cents per copy, shall
9
be paid on copies actually sold and accountings and payments
10
made on or about March lst and September 1st each year, computed
11
to February lst and August lst respectively.
12
5.
The Seller agrees that during the life of this
13
agreement he will not publish or permit the publication by any
14
party other than the Buyer any edition of said book which may
15
be sold at wholesale to the trade at less than 75 cents a copy.
16
6.
The Seller hereby agrees to permit the Buyer to
17
reprint without charge any copies of said book, either bound
18
or in sheets, which may be destroyed by fire or water while in
19
the possession of the Buyer or in the process of manufacture.
20
7.
The Buyer agrees to print the copyright notice
21
identically as found in the copy of the book furnished by the
22
Seller for "copy" on the title page leaf of each and every
23
copy of the book which they may print.
24
BLUE RIBBON BOOKS, INC.
25
By (Signed) Eugene Reynal
26
THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY
27
By (signed) D.L. Chambers, Vice-President.
28
29
30

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
Jilo
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
wom 1 
THE LEGAL ADVISER
JUN 28 1933
Department of State
June 19, 1933.
R/H
Dr. Hornbeck:
S
I think we are more or less certain, by reason of our
connection with this legislation, that there was no intention
894.727/
to interfere with publication or sale of "The American Black
Chamber", that bein re aried as water over the dam. The
primary purpose was to prevent the publication of the code
messages contained in the new book prepared by Yardley and
2
similar publications in the future.
Insofar as the
9
publication of diplomatic code messages is concerned, I
presume that the Department of Justice on whom any prosecution
would devolve woul re ard this Department as the "competent
authority" empowered to give authorization.
These people
have been very decent about this matter, as you will observe
from the attached copy of my memorandum of April 13, 1933, of
conversation with Mr. Rabb, counsel for the publishers. I
would, therefore, suggest that the second paragraph of the
letter to Mr. Chambers might be changed to read somewhat as
follows:
It is not clear from the Act in question, H.R.
4220, approved June 10, 1933, whether it was intended
to cover a publication of the character in question;
nor is it clear whether, if it should be held that
FILED
the Act is applicable, this Department would be the
"competent
1

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
"competent authority" to grant the permission
required by the Act. I may state, however, that
insofar as this Department is concerned it has no
objection to the continuance of sales of "The
American Black Chamber" with contents as to text
identical with the contents of the book as hitherto
published. Since any prosecution under the Act
would devolve upon the Deparument of Justice I would
suggest that as a precautionary measure you might
deem it desirable to consult that Denartment. In
doing so you may te free to inform it of the views
herein expressed.
Le GHH:JRC

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
MENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
RDINATION AND REVIEW
July 14, 1933.
Mr. Payer
Mr. Phillips thought
you might like to read
this as of interest. After
you have read it, will you
kindly give it to Miss New-
combe to return to the
Index Bureau files as it is
the Department's official
file?
of State
JUL 1 4 1933
MR. PAYER

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
M. RECD
5.206:: Se Dept
Office of the Attorney General
Washington,D.C.
13 1883
June 29th, 1933.
JUL-1 33
F
Division of
894
The Honorable,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Bobla
G
JUL 3-1933
依
The Secretery of State.
894.727
Department of State
S i r:
1
There is enclosed herewith a copy of & petition left at this Depart-
ment by Mr. Stern, Secretary to Senator Van Nuys, addressed to the Attorney
General by tne Bobbs-Merrill Company of Indianapolis, Indiana, requesting
authorization to sell and dispose of copies of "The American Black Chamber"
under the so-called Official Secrets Act of June 10, 1933.
It is understood that your Department expressed doubt as to whether
the Act in question applies to the present distribution of materials pub-
lished before the enectment of the law, and if so, whether your Department
would be the "competent authority" to authorize such distribution.
It appears that the publication entitled "The American Black Chamber"
contains matter which purports to have been repared in an official diplo-
matic code and also matter which purports to have been obtained while in
the process of transmission between a foreign governnent and its diplomatic
mission in the United States. The Act makes it an offense for "whoever, by
virtue of his employment by the United States, shall obtain from another,
or shall have custody of, or access to, or shall have had custody of or ac-
cess to" matter of the nature specified, "and shall wilfully, without author-
ization of competent authority, publish or furnish" to ano ther any such code
or matter, etc.
It also appears that Yardley, by virtue of the circumstances under
which he came into possession of certain matter contained in his book,
would come within the scope of this Act. The words "publish or furnish"
are quite broad and would undoubtedly include furnishing, after the passage
of the statute, all such matter which was so obtained prior to the passage
of the statute. If the matter prohibited is published after the passage
of the Act, a publishing house which assists the person so furnishing it,
in the publication thereof, would probably be guilty as a principal under
the provisions of Section 332 of the Criminal Code of the United States.
Inasmuch as the statute only embraces the publication or furnishing of
matter prepared in an official diplomatic code or matter in the process of
/G
222 874 727

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
transmission between a foreign government and its diplomatic mission
in this country, it is believed that your Department, by virtue of its
statutory duties with respect to foreign relations would be the "com-
petent authority" to authorize or object to the publication or furnish-
ing of such matter. Sec. 156, Title 5, United States Code.
The petition of the Bobbs-Merrill Company is referred therefore to
you for such action as you may deem proper in the premises.
Respectfully,
Nom5 (k mg)
Attorney General.
Enclosure 637225.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
1
PETITION OF THE BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY
FOR PERMISSIO TO SELL COPIES OF "THE
2
AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER"
3
4
5
TO THE HONORABLL, THI ATTORN Y G N RAL
6
OF THE UNITED STATES:
7
8
The Bobbs Merrill Company, an Indiana corporation,
9
having its principal of ice anc place of business at Indianapolis,
10
Indiana, respectfully petitions for authorization to sell and dispose of
11
copies of "The American Black Chamber", and shons in support of this
12
petition:
13
"The American Black Chambar", by Herbert O. Yardley,
14
was published by The Bobbs Merrill Company on June 1, 1931, and to date
15
a total of approximately 1?, 490 copies have been sold. The book has
16
had wide publicity and distribution.
17
Prior to such publication a substantial portion of the
18
contents of such book had been published serially in The Saturday Evening
19
Post. The author, Herbert O. Yardley, had written your petitioner under
20
date of March 18, 1931, a letter, a copy of which 1s annexed hereto and
21
made a part hereof, wherein he stated that: "My superiors in the
22
Government's service knew at the time that I took and retained copies of
25
the varicus letters and messages referred to in y manuscript. There has
24
never been any objection therto made to me, nor any request made upon
25
me by any officer of the Government for the return of such copies."
26
After such publication, and on Movember 27, 193l, your
mtered into a contract with Blue Ribbom Books, Imc., a cow
of mhish is ammexed hereto and made a part heroof, for the sale of coples
of sach book. This comtract is still in force, and a large mmber of

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
1
copies of the book have been printed and some 4500 copies distributed.
2
All such copies were printed, and petitioner has
3
incurred substantial expense therefor, ithout any objection or protest
4
or intimation of objection from or on behalf of any government or
5
governmental authority.
6
A certain manuscript by said Herbert O. Yardley for a
7
new book on codes was submitted to pitition r during the summer of 1932
8
and petitioner declined to publish the same; hich facts petitioner made
9
knowm to a then Assistant Attorney General of the United States, and at
10
that time no objection whatsoever was made by said Assistant Attorney
11
General to the contimued publication of "The merican Black Chamber".
12
If, by virtue of the provisions of the Official Secrets
13
Act (H.B.422o), sales of such book must cease, your petitioner will inour
14
a heavy financial loss.
15
Therefore, your p titioner asks that it be given
16
permission to contimue sales of "The merican Black Chamber" without
17
reatriction.
18
Dated at New York, N. Y., June 21, 1933.
19
20
THE BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY
Sachawhero
21
By
Its Vice President
22
23
STATE OF MEW YORK
SS:
24
COUNTY OF NEW YORK
25
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 2lst day of
June , 1933.
Eugenia P. Hiocauo
Notary Public
My commission esmpires
NOTARY PUBLIQ
No Yark County Clerk's Na 313
New York County Reg. No. 5H52
Commission Expires March 30, 1935.
-2-

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
March 18, 1931.
2
3
The Bobbs-Merrill Company,
4
Indianapolis.
5
Gentlemen:
6
With reference to the manuscript of y book entitled
"The American Black Chamber":
7
Non of th messages therein referred to, other than
8
certain ireless messages exchanged between Germany and Mexico, were sent
by radio. They came by cable.
9
With respect to every cablegram referred to in such
10
book, the copies thereof to which I refer therein were obtained by the
consent and authority of the respective presidents of the estern Union
10
Telegraph Company and of the Postal Telegraph Company over the wires of
one or the other of such companias such messages were transmitted.
12
My superiors in the Government's service kmew at the
13
time that I took and retained copies of the various letters and messages
referred to in my manuscript. There has never been any objection thereto
14
made to me, nor any request made upon me by any officer of the Government
for the return of such copies.
15
I shall be glad to furnish at once the originals or
16
photostatic copies of such files, letters and documents as Mr. Chambers
will indicate to me he desires to retain temporarily, pending the publication
17
of this mamuscript and for a reasonable time thereafter. It is mderstood,
of course, that I may have access to these files and copies thereof if
18
needed by me during the period of such retention.
19
Very truly,
20
(signed)
Herbert O. Yardley
21
22
25
24
25
26
27
28
29
s0

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
1
AGREEMENT made this 27th day of Movember, 1931, by and between
2
BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY, Publishers, hereinafter referred to as the Seller,
3
and BLUE RIBBON BOOKS, INC., of New York hereinafter referred to as the
4
Buyer, in the matter of a reprint edition of
5
TH. AMERICAN BLaCK CHAMBER by Herbert O. Yardley
6
1.
In consideration of the sum of 1.00 (One Dallar) receipt of wbhich
7
is hereby acknowledged, and in further consiaeration as mentioned in
8
Paragraph 2 of this agreement, the Seller hereby agrees and conveys to the
9
Buyer the exclusive selling right, for a period of three years from
10
publication, and subsequently unless terminated by the Seller on six months'
11
written notice to print, bind and sell popular priced reprint editions of
12
said title in a series knowm as BLU RIBBON BOOKS, INC. The publishing
13
rights of said book are now owned by the Seller and are not subject to any
14
prior contract or lien which may interfere with the rights of the Buyer under
15
this agreement. The seller hereby agrees to place at the disposal of the
16
Buyer ana deliver F.O.B. New York to such printers as the Buyer may deaigmate
17
the electrotype plates, together ith the plates of illustratioms and jackets
18
and binders dies for use of the Buyer in the mamufacture of these books.
19
2.
The Buyer agrees to pay the Seller one half four months from
20
publication date and one half six months from publication date net a royalty
n
of ten cents (10) per copy on a minimum edition of fifteen thousand (15,000)
22
copies.
23
3.
Publication date is to be after September lst, 1932. It is
24
uaderatood that the plates shall be handled with care and returmed to the
25
Seller, if he should so wish, after each printing, in perfect condition,
mabjeot only to the usual wear and tear of use. The Seller shall havé the
27
use of the plates for printing editions for his om stock during the peried
of this agreement.
4.
Primters' affidavit shall be supplied to the Seller as soom as
edition is off the press; and if editions beyond the mimimm editiems

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
1
are required, the Buyer shall notify the Seller that they have printed a
2
further edition and royalties on this, at the rate of ten cents per copy,
3
shall be paid on copies actually sold and accountings and payments made on
4
or about March lst and September lst each year, computed to February lst
5
and August lst respectively.
6
5.
The Seller agrees that during the life of this agreement he will
7
not publish or permit the publication by any party other than the Buyer any
8
edition of said book which may be sold at wholesale to the trade at less
9
than 75 cents a copy.
10
6.
The Seller hereby agrees to permit the Buyer to reprint without
11
charge any copies of said book, either bound or in sheets, which may be
12
destroyed by fire or water while in the possession of the Byer or in the
15
process of mamufacture.
14
7.
The Buyer agrees to print the copyright notice identically as
15
fomd in the copy of the book furnished by the Seller for "copy" on the title
16
page leaf of each and every copy of the book which they may print.
17
BLUE RIBBON BOOKS, IMC.
18
By (Signed) Eugene Reynal
19
THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY
20
By (Signed) D. L. Chambers, Vice-President.
21
22
28
24
25

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFICATION CANCELL A:
of 5-20-64 from Donald J. Simon, State Dept.
By 1.m, dawyer Date u/9/65
In reply refer to
FE 894.727/27
July 13 1987
894.727/27
The Honorable
The Attorney General.
S1r:
Referring to your letter of June 29, I enclose
herewith a copy of a letter whioh I am sending this
day to Mr. D. L. Chambers, Vice President, The Bobbs-
Merrill Company, in reply to the petition of The Bobbs-
Merrill Company for permission to continue sales of
"The Amerioan Black Chamber".
Very truly yours,
Willium Phillips
Aeting Seoretary of State.
Enelesure:
Frem Department to
Mr. D. L. Chambers,
dated July 12, 1933.
OR
1
wws
m.m.n.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFICATION 
e
5-20-64 fram Danad 1. Simon, Stato Dapt
 1. 2). danyee  4-9-65
In reply refer to
FE
July 13 1933
Mr. D. L. Chambers,
894.727/27
Vice President, The Bobbs-Merrill Company,
185 Madison Avenue,
New York, New York.
Sir:
Referenoe is made to the Department's letter of
June 20 in regard to the petition of The Bobbs-Merrill
Company for permission to sell copies of "The Amerioan
Blaok Chamber".
The Department has recelved from the Attorney
General a letter under date June 29 expressing the view
that this Department would be the oompetent authority to
pass upon the request made in the petition of The Bobbs-
Merrill Company under reference.
As stated in my letter to you oi June 20, this Depart-
ment was, until April 13, 1933, in no way consulted with
regard to the publioation or distribution of "The Amerioan
Blaok Chamber" or materials used in conneotion with the
preparation

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
一 2 -
preparation of that book. In choosing to prepare, to
publish and to distribute this book, the author and the
publishers assumed all risks attendant upon publioation,
inoluding legal and finanoial risks. Whatever may have
been the estimates or conjeotures of the author and the
publishers, it oan soaroely have been assumed by them
that this Department would view with favor the use thus
made of the materials involved. So far as this Department
is aware, no Department of the Government had been asked
to express an opinion, none was conneoted with the faot
of the publioation, and none was in position to intervene
in any way. The passage of the Act for the proteetion of
Government records of June 10, 1933, oreated a new situa-
tion. The publishers now ask that this Department "grant
permission" for further and unrestricted publioation and
distribution. The granting by this Department of suoh a
permission would imply that the Department felt no objee-
tion to the publioation and distribution of the book and
would in a measure assooiate the Department with action
on the part of the author and the publishers upon which
it has not at any time looked with approval. I therefore
find it impossible to grant the permission whioh the
Company requests. However, it is no part of the desire
of the Department to contribute unnecessarily to the
caasing of embarrassment or loss to the publishers or the
author.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.93)
- 3-
muthor. It is stated in the petition under reference
that the publishers have printed, in connection with
their contract with Blue Ribbon Books, Inoorporated, a
certain number of copies of the book, some 4,500 copies
of whioh printing have already been distributed. The
most that I oan do is to state that the Department will
take no action against the publishers or the author in
conneetion with the distribution of such copies of this
book as were aotually printed before the date of the
petition under reference, June 14, 1933, assuming, of
course, that no use will be made, for purposes of advertis-
ing or of increasing the sale price of such copies or for
any other purpose, of the fact or the substance of the ex-
ohange of communications on the subject of publication
and distribution thereof between the Company and various
Departments of the Government.
Very truly yours,
William Phillips
Acting Seoretary of State.
m.m
FE:SKR/CLS
FE
7-12-35./K5
suy
JUL
mix

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
LE
CLASSTION ED Ay: e
of 5-20 64 1.
Stote Dept
DEPARTMENT OP STATE
RECEIVE
11.20 1933
THE LEGAL ADVISER
THE UNDER SECRETARY
1983
July 6, 1933.
DEPASTATE
Mr. Phillips:
894.727
F/HS
I call attention to Dr. Hornbeck's memorandum of
July 5, 1933, and his draft of a letter to the Attorney
General, with respect to a petition by the Bobbs-Merrill
Company of Indianapolis for authorization to sell and
894.727/28
dispose of copies of "The American Black Chamber".
It appears from the letter of June 29 from the
Attorney General that he considers that this Department
is the "competent authority" to say whether the publishers
of The Amerioan Black Chamber shall or shall not be per-
mitted to make further publication of the book.
The
publishers have requested permission. It would seem,
therefore, that we should state either that we have no
objeotion or that we do object. I assume that the publi-
cation has spent its force, in so far as regards any
damage to our foreign relations. I would suggest, however,
that if permission is granted, it might properly be
limited to the sale of books already printed.
Under
the agreement between the Bobbs-Merrill Company and the
Blue Ribbon Books, Inoorporated, concluded November 27,
1931, the latter is obligated to print a minimum of 15,000
copies on which the Bobbs-Merrill Company are to receive
a

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
a royalty of lo per copy. The contract runs until
November 27, 1934, and may be continued indefinitely
unless terminated on six month's notice by the Bobbs-
Merrill Company.
Since the Attorney General has referred to this
Department the petition by the publishers, it would seem
that a further letter should be sent to them and a copy
thereof sent to the Attorney General.
Green H. Haokworth.
Le 894.727/27
GHH:AD

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
00
ESTABLISHED1838
THE BOBBSMERRILLCOMPANY
PUBLISHERSINDIANAPOLIS
July 22nd, 1933.
D.L.CHAMBERS
VICE PRESIDENT
F/H
1.80
S
July 26 1933
Hon. William Phillips,
Acting Secretary of State,
1003
894.727/
Washington, D. C.
Dear sir:-
I acknowledge receipt of your letter dated July 13th
relative to the peti:ion of The Bobbs Merrill Company for permission
to sell copies of The American Black Chamber.
2
The desire of the Jepartment not to contripute unnecessarilo
to the causing of embarrassment or loss to the publishers is appre-
ciated. May we bring this fact to your attention: The Bobbs-Merrill
Company will be as liable to respond in damages to Blue Ribbon Books,
Incorporated, for the unprinted balance of the minimum number of
copies specified in the contract between the two corporations (a copy
of which is appended to the petition) as fo the undistributed balance
of the copies printed prior to June 14th, 1933. May we nave the in-
dulgence of the Departmert to the extent that it will take no actior.
if the unprinted balance of the minimum numoer of copies specified in
such contract is printed ai.d also distributed?
In this connection may we ask you to take into account also
that many months ago Blue Ribbon Books, Inc., made arrangemen ts for
the listing of The American Black Chamber in the catalogs of certain
mail order house and failure to fulfil their contracts with such
houses would mean financial loss and embarrassment?
Of course I assure you that no use will.be m. for pur-
pses of advertising or increasin the sale price ofsuch opies of
the fact or the substance of the excnange of communigetionn the
subject of publication and distri pution thereof betweon the Company
and the Department, nor for any purpose unless litigatigr should
ensue upon the Government's initiative.
Very truly yours,
DeChamless
DLC-S

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
July 26 1973
CLASSIFICATISN CANCELLED Atority: letter
In reply refer to
of 5-23 64 from Donald 1. Simen, State Dept.
FE 894.727/29
Mr. D. L. Chambers,
894.727/29
Vice President, The Bobbs-Merrill Company,
185 Madison Avenue,
New York, New York.
8ir:
I acknowlodge receipt of your letter of July 22 in
further reference to the petition of The Bobbs-Merrill
Company for permission to sell copies of "The American
Blask Chamber".
I note and I thank you for the assurance given in
the last peragraph of your letter.
Youmew request "the indulgenoe of the Department
te the axtemt that it will take mo aotion if the
wmprinted balance of the minimum number of copies speei-
fied in" The Bobbs-Merrill Company's contract with Blue
Ribhon Books, Ineorporated, be printed and also distrib-
ated. In the petition which you submitted of date
Jume 14 to the Seeretary of state, there appeared
the

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
一 2 -
she statement: "This contrast is still in foree, and a
large mumber of copies of the book have been printed,
and seme 4,500 additiomal books distributed". In my
roply of July 13, I gave the assurance: "that the Depart-
ment will take no action against the publishers or the
amthor in connection with the distribution of such copies
of this book as were actually printed before the date of
the petition under reference, June 14, 1933". Your re-
quest mow under reference is in substance a request that
the Department assure you that it will take no aotion in
regard to a certain number of copies of the book which
are as yet unprinted and undistributed, in order that
neither you nor Blue Ribbon Books nor certain mail order
houses annamed may be exposed to possible embarrassment
or loss or legal astion. As the Government has at no
time looked with favor upon the printing and distribution
of this book, the Department, having already made a sub-
stantial coneession to you in relation to all copies of
the book printed before June 14, 1933, is of the opinion
that an additional coneession by it the effeet of which
would be to facilitate the printing. distribution and
sale of a large number of copies not yet printed would be
imeonsistent with the spirit of the Aet of Jume 10, 1933,
an

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
and eontrary to the best interests of the United States.
I therefore reaffirm but am not in position to enlarge
the assuranee given in the last sentence of my letter of
July 13 referred to above.
Very truly yours,
William Phillips
Acting Seoretary of State.
A true copy of
nal.
6,1055
MW
FE:SKH:EJL
FE
7/26/33

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
NON-POLITICALECON-
CABLE ADDRESS
CALDWELL
"CALDPARK-NEW YORE"
NEW YORK
66
East 66th t.
RECEIVED
April 28, 1934
APR 30 1934
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 1- 193
994.727
F/ESP
Sir:
1984
I was desirous of securin, a copy of Yercley's
"American Black Chamoer," and I fina fron my bookdealer that
this government h:s suppressed the book. This strikes me like
attempting to suppress a bad odor with chloroform instead of
a bath. When this government is afraid to h: ve the truth told,
we are in a bad way.
One of the few things I did on your coming into office
was to suggest to you tnat you re-establish the black chamber,
which Secretary stimson most foolishly, in my opinion, abolished.
di
What has become of our free press, with a great Secretary like
Secretary Hull? I an amazed and distressed that such a wholly
undemocratic thing as this should be instituted under the Administratio
of Franklin D. Roosevelt and secretary Hull.
Faithfully yours,
RJC:W
ROBLRT J
CALDWELL
Honorable Jecretary of tate,
Washington,
D. C.
1934
UTILITIES.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LEGAL ADVISER
DIVISION OF RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION
Law Section
1NAF
May 16, 1934.
Le
Mr. Vallance:
I accordance with your request I submit herewith a statement of
the legislative history of H. R. 4220 of the lst Session, 73d Congress.
This statement has been taken from the May 15, 1934 issue of the Calen-
dar of the House of Representatives which is prepared under the direction
of South Trimble, Clerk of the House of Representatives.
"H. R. 4220.--Government records, protect. Reported from
Judiciary, Mar. 29, 1933; Report No. 18. House Calen-
dar. Passed House Apr. 3, 1933. Reported in Senate,
amended, Apr. 10, 1933; Foreign Relations; Report No.
21. Passed Senate, amended, May 10, 1933. Sent to
conference May 22, 1933. Senate agreed to conference
report June 7, 1933. House agreed to conference report
June 8, 1933. Approved June 10, 1933. Public Law
No. 37."
Copies of the bill as introduced, the House and Senate committee
reports referred to in the statement above, together with a copy of the
conference report and the law, are attached hereto.
JJB/JK

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REPORT
st Session
No. 18
PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT RECORDS
Marcí 29, 1933.– Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
Mr. SumnErs of Texas, from the Committee on the Judiciary, sub-
mitted the following
R E PORT
[To accompany H.R. 4220]
The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred the bill
(H.R. 4220) after consideration, reports the same favorably with
amendments, and recommends that the bill as amended do pass.
The committee amendments are as follows:
Page 1, line 8, after the word "destroy" strike out the word "or",
and in the same line, after the word "sell", insert the following:
"furnish to another, publish or offer for sale,"
Page 2, lines 21 and 22, strike out the words "facts or information
purporting to be contained in" and insert in lieu thereof the following:
"any such matter or anything purporting to be"
It is highly essential that leaks from confidential official records
and communications not occur and that baseless or damaging reports
purporting to be disclosures from such documents not be cireulated.
It is the purpose of this bill to minimize the possibility of such occur-
rences, while at the same time safeguarding the rights of individuals
and the public interest as they are related to freedom of speech and
of the press.
The executive branch of the Government has requested the enact-
ment of this legislation at the earliest practicable date, and has
satisfactorily demonstrated to the committee the need for it. The
legislation is by its nature very properly auxiliary to the emergency
legislation enacted and to be enacted by Congress at the present
session. It is proper to state that the committee has had the assist-
ance of the Department of Justice in the drafting and preparation
of the bill.
This bill, while not repealing existing law, is an extension thereof,
and therefore, in compliance with clause 2a of rule XI1I there is
printed below in parallel columns, existing law and H.R. 4220:

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
2
PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT RECORDS
EXISTING LAW
PROPOSED LAW
United States Code, title 18, para-
H.R. 4220 (including committe
graph 234 (Criminal Code, section 128),
amendments):
destroying public records:
"That whoever, by virtue of his em-
" Whoever shall willfully and unlaw-
ployment by the United States, having
fully conceal, remove, mutilate, oblit-
custody of, or access to, any record,
erate, or destroy, or attempt to con-
proceeding, map, book, document,
ceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate, or
paper, or other thing shall, for any
destroy, or with intent to conceal, re-
purpose prejudicial to the safety or
move, mutilate, obliterate, destroy, or
interest of the United States willfully
steal. shalt take and carry away any
and unlawfully conceal, remove, muti-
record, proceeding, map, book, paper,
late, obliterate, falsify, destroy, sell,
document, or other thing, filed or de-
furnish to another, publish, or offer for
posited with any clerk or officer of
sale, any such record, proceeding, map,
any court of the United States, or in
book, document, paper, or thing, or
any public office, or with any judicial
any information contained therein, or
or public officer of the United States,
a copy or copies thereof, shall be fined
shall be fined not more than $2,000, or
not more than $2,000 or imprisoned
imprisoned not more than three years.
not more than three vears, or both,
or both."
and moreover shall forfeit his office
United States Code, utie 1s. para-
and be forever afterwards disqualified
graph 235 (Criminal Code, section 129),
from holding any oflice under the Gov-
destroying records by officer in charge:
ernment of the United States
" Whoever, having the custody of
"SEc. 2. Whoever shall willfully,
any record, proceeding, map, book,
without authorization of competent
document, paper, or other thing speci-
authority, publish or furnish to another
fied in section 234 of this title, shall
any matter prepared in any official
willfully and unlawfully conceal, re-
code; or whoever shall, for any purpose
move, mutilate, obliterate, falsify, or
prejudicial to the safety or interest of
destroy any such record, proceeding,
the United States, willfully publish or
map, book, document, paper, or thing,
furnish to another any matter obtained
shall be fined not more than $2,000, or
without authorization of competent
imprisoned not more than three years,
authority, from the custody of any
or both; and shall moreover forfeit his
officer or employee of the United States
office and be forever afterward dis-
or any matter which was obtained
qualified from holding any office under
while in process of transmission from
the Government of the United States."
one public office, executive department,
or independent establishment of the
United States or branch thereof to any
other such public office, executive de-
partment, or independent establish-
ment of the United States or branch
thereof or any matter which was in
process of transmission between any
foreign government and its diplomatic
mission in the United States; or who-
ever shall for any purpose prejudicial
to the safety or interest of the United
States, willfully, without authorization
of competent authority, publish, or
furnish to another, any such matter or
anything purporting to be any such
matter, shall be fined not more than
$10,000 or imprisoned not more than
ten years, or both.
"SEC. 3. In any prosecution here-
under, proof of the commission of any
of the acts described herein shall be
prima facie evidence of a purpose
prejudicial to the safety or interest of
the United States."

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Calendar No. 22
D CONGRESS
SENATE
REPORT
1st Session
No. 21
PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT RECORDS
M 13 (calendar day, Apn. 10), 1933.-Ordered to be printed
Mr. Roßinson of Arkansas, from the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, submitted the following
REPORT
[To accompany H. R. 4220]
The Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, having had under
consideration H.R. 4220, for the protection of Government records.
submits the following report:
Your committee recommends the following amendment: That all
language in the bill, after the enacting clause, be stricken out, and
that the following language be inserted:
That, whoever by virtue of his employment by the lnited States shall obtain
from another or having custody of or access to, or having had custody of or access
to, any official diplomatic code or any matter prepared in any such code, or which
purports to have been prepared in any such code, shall willfully, without authori-
zation or competent authority, publish or furnish to another any such code or
matter, or any matter which was obtained while in the process of transmission
between any foreign government and its diplomatic mission in the United States.
shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both.
Your committee recommends that such amendment be adopted,
and that the bill as so amended do pass.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
3D CONGREsS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REPORT
1st Session
No. 206
PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT RECORDS
JuNE 7, 1933. Ordered to be printed
Mr. McKeown, from the committee of conference, submitted the
following
CONFERENCE REPORT
[To accompany H. R. 4220]
The committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the two
Houses on the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 4220) for
the protection of Government records, having met, after full and
free conference, have agreed to recommend and do recommend to
their respective Houses as follows:
That the House recede from its disagreement to the amendment of
the Senate and agree to the same.
Tom D. McKEOWn,
J. BANKS KURTZ,
Managers on the part of the House,
JOE T. ROBINSON,
W. E. Boa,
TOM CONNALLY,
Managers on the part of the Senate.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
STATEMENT OF THE MANAGERS ON THE PART OF THE HOUSE
The managers on the part of the House at the conference on the
disagreeing votes of the two Houses on the amendments of the
Senate to the bill (H.R. 4220) for the protection of Government
records, submit the following written statement in explanation of
the effect of the action agreed upon by the conferees and recommended
in the accompanying conference report:
This bill as it passed the House consisted of three sections. Section
1 provided that it shall be a crime for any person by virtue of his
employment having custody of or access to any records of the Gov-
ernment to remove, sell, or destroy them for any purpose prejudicial
to the Government. This section is merely an extension of existing
law (U.S. Code, title 18, par. 234, Criminal Code, sec. 128). Section
2 made it a crime for any person without authorization of competent
authority to publish or furnish to another any matter prepared in
any official code, or for any purpose prejudicial to the safety or
interest of the United States, willfully to publish or furnish to another
any matter obtained without authorization of competent authority
from the custody of any officer or employee of the United States or
anything purporting to be such matter. Section 3 provided that
proof of the commission of any of the acts forbidden by sections 1 and
2 shall be prima facie evidence of a purpose prejudicial to the safety
or interest of the United States.
The Senate amendment struck out the entire House bill after the
enacting clause and substituted one paragraph making it a crime for
anyone having, or having had, custody or access to any official diplo-
matic code or any matter prepared in such code, willfully, without
authorization or competent authority, to publish or furnish to another
such code or matter, or what purports to be such, or any matter which
was obtained while in the process of transmission between any foreign
government and its diplomatic mission in the United States.
The conferees recominend the acceptance of the Senate amendment.
Tom D. McKEOWn,
EMANUEL CELLER,
J. BANKS KURTZ,
Managers on the part of the House.
2
O

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
[PUBLIC—No. 37—73D CONGREs8]
[H.R. 4220]
AN ACT
For the protection of Government records.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That whoever, by
virtue of his employment by the United States, shall obtain from
another or shall have custody of or access to, or shall have had custody
of or access to, any official diplomatic code or any matter prepared
in any such code, or which purports to have been prepared in any
such code, and shall willfully, without authorization or competent
authority, publish or furnish to another any such code or matter, or
any matter which was obtained while in the process of transmission
between any foreign government and its diplomatic mission in the
United States, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not
more than ten years, or both.
Approved, June 10, 1933.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
73D CONGRESS
H. R. 4220
1ST SESSION
IN THE IHOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MARCH 27. 1933
Mr. SuNErs of Texas introduced the following bill: which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary and ordered to be printed
A BILL
For the protection of Government records.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tires of the United States of America in Congress assembled.
That whoever, by virtue of his employment by the U'nited
3
States, having custody of, or access to, any record, pro-
4
ceeding, map, book, document, paper, or other thing shall,
6 for any purpose prejudicial to the safety or interest of the
7 United States willfully and unlawfully conceal, remove,
8 mutilate, obliterate, falsify, destroy, or sell, any such record,
9 proceeding, map, book, document, paper, or thing, or any
10 information contained therein, or a copy or copies thereof,
11 shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
H. R. 4220
73D CONGRESS
1sT SESSION
A BILL
For the protection of Government records.
By Mr. Sumners of Texas
MARCH 27, 1933
Referred to the Committee on the Judiciary and
ordered to be printed

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
May 17 1984
894.727/30
Mr. Robert J. Caldwell,
166 Bast Sixty-sixth Street,
New York, New York.
sir:
The Department has reseived your letter dated
April 2s, l934, in which you state that you understand
that this Govermment has suppressed a book by Yardley
entitled "American Black Chamber".
It is believed that your complaint with regard to
this matter should not be addressed to this Department
bat to the Gongress whieh emaeted the Aot approved June 10,
l9ss, entitled "An Aet for the Proteetion of Govermment
Resords", a copy of which is transmitted herewith for
your consideration. This Department is obliged te comply
with the provisions of the statute and if you sonsider it
wasatisfaetory, you may resort to Gongress with a view to
May17
heving it amended ia smch respests as you desm advisable.
CB
Very traly yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
A true copy of
R. Walton Moore
Assistent Sesretary.
B/16

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
Le
894.727/30
166 East Sixty-sixth Street,
New York, New York.
sir:
The Department has received your letter dated
April 28, 1934, in whioh you state that you under-
stand that this Government has suppressed a book by
Yardley entitled "Amerioan Blaok Chamber".
It is presumed that you have reference to the
Ast of Congress entitled "An Jot for the Protection
of Govermment Records", approvoa June 10, l933, a
copy of which is transmitted herowith for your con-
sideration. It will be seen that the Act is designed
primmrily for the protegtion of diplomatio codes.
Very traly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Assistant Secretary.
W.RN

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.88)
FMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Vagflauce;
this?
SUN
58

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.80)
NT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
NATION AND REVIEW
4
Hacke
9.th
aelnal
eut

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
File No. FE 894.727/30
Mr. Robert J. Caldwell,
186 East 66th Street,
New York, Wew York.
S1r:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of
Apri1 38, 1934, 1n which reference 1s made to the
act entitled "An Aot For the Protection of Govern-
ment Records."
There is enolosed for four lafofmation a copy
of that aot.
very trulyyours,
For the Secretary of State:
Maxwell M. Hamiaton,
Assistant Chif,
Division of Far Eastere Affairs.
Enelosure:
Copy of Aes approved
10,1935.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
10
IN
ÉBORGE HOLDEN TINKHAM
G. C. HAMELN
OF
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATTON
HOUSE OF REPRESENTAT
WASHINGTON, D. C.
FEB-232
a-c
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
894.727
894.727/31
In the January 28 iesue of the BOSTON HERALD
there appeared an article under the caption, "Reveels
U. S. Decoded Japan's Secret Messages on Arms Conference
in 192l" which read as follows:
"In 1921 and 1922, during the naval reduc-
tions conference in which the United States,
England, and Japan were the chief participants,
thousands of code messages were exchan ed betveen
the Japanese overnment and its representatives
relative to its position in re ard to the nego-
tiations.
"The Japanese were exchenging their communi-
cations in secret code - that is, they believed
the messeces were secret. But the messages were
intercepted by American tovernment agents, decoded,
and the information transmitted to the state de-
partment. As aresult, the United States, knowing
just what Japan's plans were, was able to accom-
plish its aims in the conference.
"Maj. H. O. Yardley, head of the famous
American black chamber, the department which inter-
cepted and decoded the Japanese messages, described
this an d other intimate deteils of secret comrmuni-
1U1. 18
cations in a talk before members of the Harvard
Club last night.
FILD
"Maj. Yardley was head of the black chamber
until it was abolished in 1929 by the state depart-
33
ment es unethical. In 1927, it intercepted and
decoded messages vhich shoved that England and
Japan were acting independently of the United States
in forcing Chinese concessions. With informetion
thus gained, the United States was enahled to pro-
tect its Chinese interests."

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
l am turning
The signed reeeifet
card is clipped
to the blue-as I
cinderetaud you
B. Davenport.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No
4609
WASHINGTON
10-9
193
From
Addressee
Letters
Packages
Th attoreg Geneal1
Address
Delivered by
.
H:
P. M.
A. M.
Received by
P. M.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Cctober 5, 1934.
1934 0CT 9 PM 2 18
SKH:
DIVISION OF
I canpulfed wantsh the office of
Mr. ParrishD of tht Tepartment of Justice,
in regard to the disposition of the
Yardley manuscript. I stated that the
Department had no further 'nterest in
the manuscript and that we proposed to
return it to the Department of Justice
in the same manner that it was delivered
to us, that is, by hand. Mr. Parrish's
assistant said that he would be
appreciative if tle manuscript were
delivered with a covering official note
indicating that this Department is trans-
ferring custody of the manuscrint to the
Department of Justice.
FE:KHh/DLY
FAR EASTERN AFTAIRS
1934
Department of State

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
gataher 8 19540
In reply refer to
FE
My dear Mr. Attorney General:
In Fobruary, 1933, appropriate proceedings held
before a Federal grand jury in New York City resulted
in delivery to officers of the Department of Justioe
894.727/31A
of a manuseript, entitled "Japanese Diplomatic Seorets,
1921-1923", prepared by one Herbert 0. Yardley. The
manuseript was referred by the Department of Justice
to this Department.
The manusoript is being returned, under separate
cover, to the Department of Justice for such disposi-
tion thereof as may be deemed appropriate.
Sincerely yours,
William Phillips
Enclosure:
Under Secretary
Manuscript
returned.
The Honorable
Homer S. Cummings,
The Attorney General.
m.m.H.
Oc$
10-5-84

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.94)
F
AM
100
ADDRESS REPLY TO
"THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'
AND REFER TO
INITIALS AND NUMBER
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
JBK-HSR
WASHINGTON, D. C.
HSR-BGL
235334-
GREC
OT
Cctober 11, 1934.
tie
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
4
894.727/32
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Department is in receipt of your letter of the 9th
instant (FE), with which you transmit in seven parts, each
enclosed in a separate envelope, a manuscript entitled "Japanese
Diplomatic Secrets, 192l-1923", prepared by one Herbert C.
Yardley.
Respectfully,
For the Attorney General,
Joseph B. Keenan
CCT 16 1934
JOSEPH B. KEENAN,
Assistant Attorney General.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCR
AUG1935
uote
WTT

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
THE OKUYAMA SERVICE
Publisher & Editor:
(DAILY NEWS SERVICE IN ENGLISH)
Room 34, Mataumure Bi
SEIHEI OKUYAMA
1, Uchi-Yamashita-cho 1-
Printer:
TELEPHONE BINZA 2166
Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo~
SEIHEI OKUYAMA
Monday, July 8, 1935
894.727/3
68
894.727
Japan to Fight Against
Black Chambers
Kokunin Shimbun, July 8
The Forein Office authorit ics have drafted a plan to impro
Japan's systen of telegraphic code as a means to cope with th
remarkable progress attained by many countries in code techni
One iten in the plan includes appointment of telegraphio
officials.
Many of the for ign countries, it is pointed out, have
complete organs. They have speclal telegraphio experts versed
in code work. They are not only dispatohed abroad for study
but also are enabled to learn to decode the oonfidential
mossages of qther countries. They also take considerable pains
in devising new coding systems from time to time.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
Japan has been much inferior to many of suoh
ntries in
the art of code. So far only a few teohnioians hom been
employed and studies have been neglected. much coserned abo
this situation, the Fomion Oflice has now drafted  plan and
submitted it to the Board of Legislation of the Cabfnet for
approval. The latter, realizing its importancc, is tow seriously
considcring the plan.
Under this plan telegraphic offic ials will be appointed and
be statined at the Japanose embassies and legati ons abroad.
The tclecraphic of ficials will not be such men who merely code
and decoe messages but those experts who devo te their mo
seinti fie study of coding. They will be asled to devise new
coding systeme bafflid to other countrius.
accorii to the experiences so far had, any coding system
which is used two or thre: ti cs ceases to funoto/x/ function
offectively. if Unless tin system is changed th ere after,
it is liable vo be understood by other countries. Under such
c ireuns tanccs  uch iuportamec ie being attached to the present
anti-black chanber plan.
2. X X
Gencral Araki and General Honjo
to Be Cre ated Barons
Yomiuri Shimbun, July 8
Gen ral Sadao arakd, former War Minister, and General Shigeru
Honjo, forner Aniif Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army,
will be creatca Baron, acco rdi g to a ten tative decision reached
by ths militury authorities. /hp/yily The military authorities
will request the Goveruent authorities in charge that the

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
821.6363/1284
desn # 2147
SEE
FOR
Colombia
Grene
April 22, 1938
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.7
Forein Office is apparently in possession of the Japanese
REGARDING:
code and certain of the translators are femiliar with the
Jananese lanmmare. Messages vere very ifficult to transcribe.
1.
7
FLY
4
he

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
BTMENT
DEPARTMENT
VISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND REGORDS
DIVISI!
Mr. Hickerson brought me the
attached papers and said that he
humbly apolcgized but somehow or
other these papers got sidetracked
in EU, that he drafted on them and
Mr. Moffat said that their office
had no business to draft on them as
it was no particular business of
theirs. Mr. Hickerson said that
he would be glad to talk to you
about it or if you so desire, it
was alright to mark the papers
file as far as their office was
FILED
concerned.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.89)
FE
1631
.5743
EU
East Lansing-Meridian News
DeR
FREDERICK GIGAX, Editor
208 Abbott Road
21M 1 59
EAST LANSING, MICH.
S
0
conary 17,1939
15
Tele
19
r.cordell ull,
ecretary o tate,
ushim,ton,
EU mli
year .r.secretary:
No doubt so.etime or ot er. ou  ve rend orourt c.Yurdley's
boo hemerican lac .uer,ie ives  rier istory
894.727/35
of the work of.1-8 uurin its 1 yeurs or existence.
in the book he attributes uel. or t.e success or e ushin tor.
894.727
armament onierence to the or. or tis epartmer.t.  t e last
chapter or he book, Y,  intiaes   ilure o
the merican dele ation t vhe ondon conierence, vas due lurgely
to the absence of the work done by tis de artment trire the
merican conference.
rersons wniamiliar vitn thi sort of t ing, ud considerin it
for the first tine, w uld naturully consider that :ardley vas
right, and as a citizen 1  vonerin t our overnment is
now doing in this direction.
1 do not ask this ror publication,  ut as a citisen, 1 siould
like to feel t at better judgement is now being exereised than
that useu by the secretary of state in 1931.
very truly yours,
F
rederick Gigax
11

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
ARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
 894.727/35
My dear Mr. Gigax:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated
January 17, 1939, commenting upon certain matters in
connection with the Washington and London Naval
Conferences.
Your views have been noted and appreciation is
expressed for the interest which prompted you to write
concerning this matter.
While the subject of your letter necessarily pre-
cludes its detailed discussion by the Department, it
must be stated that the results of these important
conferences should in no way be attributed to the
availability or non-availability of the information
to which you refer in the second paragraph of your
letter.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
tace
Pierrepont Moffat
Chief, Division of European Affairs
Mr. Frederick Gigax,
Editor, East Lansing-Meridian News,
East Lansing, Michigan.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
reply refer to
a 894.727/35
My dear Mr. Gigax:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter dated
January 17, 1939, commenting upon certain mattere in
connection with the Waahington and London Naval
Conferences.
Your vlews have been noted and appreciation 1s
expressed for the interest which prompted you to write
concerning this matter.
While the subject of your letter nocessarily pre-
oludes its detailed discussion by the Department, it
must be stated that the results of these important
conferences should in no way be attributed to the
availability or pon-availability of the information
to which you refer in the second paragraph of your
letter.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Pierrepont Morfat
Chief, Division of European Affairs
Qrattor. East Lansing-Moridian News,
Kast Lansing, Michigan.
NCM8 3/21/39
Eu:
RBS:RI 3/9/30

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
04.727/35
My dear Mr. Gigax:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Janu-
ary 17, 1939, commenting upon certain matters in conneo-
tion with the Washington and London Disarmament Conferenoes.
8
394.727/3
The Department appreciates the interest expressed in your
letter and trusts that its judgment will always merit your
confidence.
While the subjeot of your letter preoludes 1ts detailed
5
disoussion by the Department, I deem it advisable to point
out that the Washington and London Conferences dealt with
questions of vital 1mportance to the participating coun-
tries and the results of the conferenoes are to be viewed
in the light of those questions and the attitude of the
severel governments in respect of them. It would accord-
ingly appear to be clearly inadmissible to suggest that
the results of the conferences could be attributed to the
F/WB
availability or non-avallability of the information to which
you
Mr. Frederick Gigax,
Editor, East Lansing-Meridian News,
East Lansing, Miohigan.
3
9

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
you refer in the seoond paragraph of your letter.
In this connection it is deemed proper to observe
that great reserve should be exeroised in considering any
such opinion as to the success or failure of any inter-
national conference and the alleged reasons for such an
opinion.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Pierrepont Moffat
Chief, Division of European Affairs
R8
Eu:RBS:RI 3/9
Le:FXW

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
MEMORANDUM
Maroh 8, 1939
Eu
Mr. Stewart:
I have examined all the available correspondence
in the Department in regard to the subject of the at-
tached letter but I have been unable to find any state-
ment which affords an acceptable precedent for a reply.
While the letter does not involve any legal question
and, therefore, does not come within the jurisdiction
of this office, I submit tentatively for your considera-
tion the following draft:
The Department appreciates the interest expressed
in your letter dated January 17, 1939 (February 17 ?)
and trusts that its judgment will always merit your
confidence.
"While the subject of your letter precludes its
detailed discussion by the Department, I deem it advis-
able to point out that the Washington and London Con-
ferences dealt with questions of vital 1mportance to the
participating countries and the results of the conferenoes
are to be viewed in the light of those questions and the
attitude of the several governments in respect of them.
It

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
It would accordingly appear to be clearly inadmissible
to suggest that the results of the conferences could be
attributed to the availability or non-availability of
the information to which you refer in the second paragraph
of your letter.
In this connection it is deemed proper to observe
that great reserve should be exercised in considering
any opinion as to the success or failure of any interna-
tional conference and the alleged reasons for such an
opinionhen, as in the case to which you refer, the
opiniontand reasons are so obviously designed to support
the thesis of the person expressing the opinion that the
success of the conferences to which he refers depended
on the utilization of information in the procurement of
which he patently believed himself to be an indispensable
factor.
F. X. Ward.
Le 894.727/35
FXW:M8:88

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.92)
PE
-1439
CnitenvStates
Senate
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
acl v mesmo
894.727
NS
ANDRECORDS
My dear Mr. Messersmith:
This is the matte resarding w ich my secret ry
sooke with you today.
894.727/36
I would appreciate reatly if it is on lt to
grant the request of the Bobbs-l errill Company.
Sincerely y urs,
Frederick
17
Honorable George S. Messersmith
The Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
/e
Enclosure
F
/A

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
Established 1838
THE BOBBS MERRILL COMPANY
PUBLISHERS...INDIANAPOLIS
January 18th, 1939
D. L. CHAMBERS
President
My dear Senator:-
You may recall our correspondence in 1933 regarding
THE AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER, a book by Major H. O.
Yardley, of Worthington, Indiana.
At that time the State Department was much con-
cerned about the possibility of the oublication of a
second book by Major Yardley, dealing with particulars
of the Disarmament Conference. We had seen and de-
clined this manuscript. An Act was rushed through Con-
gress for the protection of diplomatic codes as follows:
"Sec. 135. Protection of diplomatic codes. Whoever,
by virtue of his employment by the United States, shall
obtain from another or shall have custody of or access
to, or shall have had custody of or access to, any of-
ficial diplomatic code or any matter prepared in any
such code, or which purports to have been prepared in
any such code, and shall willfully, without authoriza-
tion or competent authority, publish or furnish to another
any such code or matter, or any matter which was obtained
while in the process of transmission between any foreign
government and its diplomatic mission in the United
States, shall be fined not more than $10,O00 or imorisoned
not more than ten years, or both. (June 10, 1933, c. 57,
48 Stat. 122.) Sec. 135. Title 22 U.S. Code."
I believe the intent of this Act had the second
Yardley manuscript in view, but it served to render
hazardous the further s.le and distribution of THE
AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER, since it contained such codes
as the Act contemplated, notwithstanding the fact that
it had been out for two years when the Act was passed.
After conference with Will Thompson here, and with
you, we addressed a petition to the Secretary of State,
requesting permission to continue the sale and distribu-
tion of THE AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER. The Secretary was
abroad at the time, and Mr. William Phillips, the acting
Secretary of State, first referred us to the Attorney
General and then when the Attorney General had passed
the

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the buck back to him, he wrote us a letter saying that
the State Department would not initiate any action if
we simply sold out the books that had been printed, but
would not countenance further printings.
Five years have passed. The attitude of this
country toward Japan has undergone a great change. THE
AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER in the American edition has long
been out of print. There is a continued steady call
for it. And curiously enouph, the edition orinted in
England is permitted to be steadily imported into this
country by individual booksellers and sold over the
counter.
We cannot conceive that the public interest is in
any way served by THE AMERICAN BLACK CHAMBER remaining
under the ban of this Act passed two years after its
original publication. We would like now to seek a means
for its release from this ban, and would greatly appre-
ciate it if you would interest yourself in the matter
and see if the State Department, and the Department of
Justice, may not give us the "go" sign.
With kindest regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
D. L. CHAMBERS
DLO-S
Hon. Frederick Van Nuys,
Senate Office Building,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
RTMENT OF STATE
PARTMENTTATE
February 8, 1939.
1939 FEE 20 PM 12 49
Le
MUANCAIIONS
Mr. HkbGORS
You will find appended a
letter from Senator Van Nuys of
Indiana with which he transmits
the original of a letter dated
January 18 he has received from
the Bobbs-Merrill Company of
Indianapolis. I think the generel
question which this company raises
in this letter with regard to
Major Yardley's books 1s known
to you and there must be a file
in the Department. I know nothing
about the case or its merits. I
would appreciate very much your
having someone go into this
matter and giving me an 1dea as
to what I may say to Senator Van
Nuys.
G.S.M.
wW7
A M: ASM: VNG

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.82)
MENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
M reversmt
Asfuppose thear
the lelter to the
Sevater
JNN
114/39

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 13, 1939.
It is the opinion of the Far Eastern
Division that, even if the republication
of Yardley'e The American Black Chamber
were possible under existing legislation,
such publication would be inadvisable at
the present time for the reason that re-
publication in the United States of this
book would in all probability come to
the attention of the Japanese, either
through the press or other means, and
would renew the resentment of important
elements among the Japanese which regard
the book as evidence of unfair advantage
taken of Japan by this country at the
Washington Conference.
1m1
894.727
FE:Saloury:HES

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
49
February 9, 1939.
ULIART
PA/H
ANC RECORDS
Dr. Hornbeck:
I am passing on to you Mr. Messersmith's memorandum
of February 8 and Senator Van Nuys's letter of February 7,
with the enclosure, bringing up again the publication
and sale of THE AMERIOAN BLACK CHAMBER by Major H. O.
Yardley.
Inasmuch as you drafted the Department's earlier
letters to Mr. Chambers on this subject (July 13 and
July 26, 1933 - enclosures 27 and 29), and the mrtmer
fect that the book pertains largely to Japan, it would
seem that you are the logical person to draft the reply
to Senator Van Nuys.
Green H. Hackworth.
Le 894.727/
GHH:AD

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
February 8, 1939.
My dear Benator Van Nuys:
I have your letter of February 7 with whioh you
send me the original of a letter you have reoeived
from the Bobbs-Merrill Company of Indianapolls
dated January 18 w1th regard to "The Ameripan Black
Chamber" a book publ1shed by Major Yardley.
I shall go into this matter very carefully and
894.727/36
hope to be writing you in the near future. You may
be sure that we will endeavor to give you as useful
information in the premises as we may be able to
give.
With very good wishes,
Sincerely yours,
G. S. Messersmith
The Honorable
Frederick Van Nuys,
United States Senate.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
F/A
A M: GSM: VNG

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
February 18 1939
My dear Mr. Postmaster General:
There is transmitted herewith a copy of a letter
from Mr. D. L. Chambers, President of The Bobbs-Merrill
Company, Indianapolis, addressed to the Honorable
Froderiok Van Nuys, United States Senate, and referred
894.727/
to this Department by the latter, 1n regard to the
desire of The Bobbs-Merrill Company to publish a new
edition of Major H. O. Yardley's The American Black
Chember. A copy of the Department's reply to Senator
3
Van Nuys and copies of the enclosures mentioned there-
9
in are also transmitted for your information.
In view of the authority oonferred upon the
Postmaster General under the copyright laws of the
United States to prohibit the 1mportation into this
country of certain categories of works in the English
language
The Honorable
F/A
Jamee A. Farley.
Postmaster General.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.92)
lamguags, your attention is partisularly invited to the
statemest centained in the penultimate paragraph of
Mr. Ghambers' letter in regard to the reported importa-
tion into the United States by individual booksellers
and the sale over the oounter of an English edition of
The Amerigsn Dlack Ohamber.
In view of the character of the material to which
the book relates, it would appear to be desirable that
as little publieity as practicable be given to any ao-
tion which your Department may take in the matter.
A similar letter is being sent to the Seoretary of
the Treasury.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
R
A true coof
orig
FEB 17 1950
1:4
Enelosures:
1. From Mr. Chembers, January 18, 1939.
2. Te Semator Van Huys
from Department,
with enelesures.
A M
g0o
:m()
m.mH.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
February 18 1939
reply refer to
06.727/
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There is transmitted herewith a copy of a letter
from Mr. D. L. Chambers, President of The Bobbs-Merrill
8
Company, Indianapolis, addressed to the Honorable
394.727/36
Frederiek Van Nuys, United States Senate, and referred
to this Department by the latter, in regard to the
desire of The Bobbs-Merrill Company to publish a new
edition of Major H. O. Yardley's The American Black
9
Chamber. A copy of the Department 's reply to Senator
Van Nuys and copies of the enclosures mentioned there-
1n are also transmitted for your information.
In view of the authority oonferred upon the Sec-
retary of the Treasury under the copyright laws of the
United States to prohibit the importation into this
country of certain categories of works in the English
language
F
The Honorable
A1
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
ags, your attentien is partioularly invited te the
statement contained in the penultimate jaragraph of
Mr. Chambers: letter in regard to the reported importa-
tion into the United States by individual bookeellers
and the sale over the counter of an English edition of
The Amerioan Black Chamber.
In view of the character of the material to which
the book relates, it would appear to be desirable that
as little publicity as practioable be given to any ao-
tion whioh your Department may take in the matter.
A similar letter is being sent to the Postmaster
General.
Sinoerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enclosures:
1. From Mr. Chambers,
January 18, 1939.
2. To Senator Van Nuys
from Department,
with enclosures.
 true c of
the sig
nal.
N25
FEB 17
 guo
F:RS(E)
PA/B
mm

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
February 18 1939
My dear Senator Van Nuys:
to Mr. Messersmith
Referring to your letter/of February 7, 1939, 1n
regard to the desire of The Bobbs-Merrill Company to
republish Major H. O. Yardley's The Ameriean Black
894.727/
Chamber, I think you would be interested in seeing
copies of letters whioh passed between Mr. Chambers
and the Department in 1933, and, to that end, I enolose
herewith cop1es of a letter from Mr. Chambers of July 22,
3
1933, and the Department's reply of July 26, 1933.
9
I feel that there 1s nothing that I ould add to
what was said by the Department at that time.
In view of the authority conferred upon the Post-
master General and the Secretary of the Treasury by the
sopyright laws of the United States to prohibit the
1mportation
The Honorable
Frederiek Van Nuys,
United States Senate.
A

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
impertatien into the United States of certain eategories
of works in the English language, the Postmaster General
and the Sesretary of the Treasury are being informed of
Mr. Chambers' statement that an English edition of the
work 1s being imported into the United States by
individual booksellers and sold over the counter.
Mr. Chambers' letter of January l9, which you en-
olosed with your letter under reference, 1s returned
herewith.
Sineerely yours,
Pordell Bu
ORNN
A true capy of
the signed origi-
FEB 17 1959
nal.
Enelosures:
1. From Mr. Chambers,
July 22, 1933.
2.
Department's reply
therete, July 28, 1933.
3.
From Mr. Chembere to
Semator Van Muys,
Jamuary 18, 1939.
amD
HJM: SS
2.13
2-14

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
RESE
Offire of the Postmaster Crneral
A1.1N
Washington. D. C.
23
February 27, 1939.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Depertment of State
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter,
FE 894.727/ of February 18, 1939, transmitting a copy of a letter
from Mr. D. L. Chambers, President of The Bobbs-Merrill Company,
Indianapolis, Indiana, addressed to Honorable Frederick Van Nuys,
894.727/37
United States Senate, relative to the reported importation into the
United States by individual book sellers of an English edition of
"The American Black Chamber."
The United States post offices authorized to receive closed
mails from Great Britain have been instructed to keep a careful watch
with a view to preventing the delivery at destinetion of copies of
the above-mentioned book, which may be imported in the mails in viola-
tion of the United States Copyright Laws.
In compliance with your suggestion the post offices concerned
have been cautioned to give as little publicity as practicable to
any action which may be taken respecting the matter.
Very truly yours,
F/FG

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.96)
365.2
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
LEGAL ADVISER
RAL
WASHINGTON
1939 M/R 2 AM 9 32
DEPARTMENT OF STA
MAR 1 1939
The HonorableS
A
The Secretary of State.
2010
28
1035
Sir:
36
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated February
18, 1939 (FE 894.727/), addressed to the Secretery of the Treasury,
transmitting a copy of your letter addressed to Honorable Frederick
Van Nuys, United States Senate, in renly to a reference from Senator
Van Nuys to the Department of State of a letter dated January 18,
1939, addressed to him by Mr. D. L. Chambers, president of The Bobbs
Merrill Company, Indianapolis, Ind., in regard to the desire of The
Bobbs Merrill Company to publish a new edition of the book entitled
"The American Black Chamber" by Major H. O. Yardley.
894.727/38
The Department has been informally advised by the office of
the Register of Copyrights, Washington, D. C., that the above book
was published on June 1, 193l, and is covered by copyright regis-
tration no. A-37720.
In view of the statement in Mr. Chembers' letter that copies
of the English edition of the above book are being imported by
individual book sellers for sale in the United States, a Bureau of
8
Customs circular letter is being sent to all collectors of customs
and other officers concerned calling ettention to the existence of
the American copyright covering the above book and instructing them
to be especially vigilant in preventing importations of foreign
editions of the book in question. It will likewise be noted from
the enclosed copy of the Bureau of Customs circuler letter that the
customs officers have been instructed to treat this matter as strictly
confidential.
By direction of the Secretary:
Very truly yours,
tabbens rilons
Assistent Secretary of the Treasury.
Enclosure No. 41431.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.95)
368.8
CONYIDNTIAL
BUREAU OF CUSTOMS
CIROULAR LETTER NO. 194S
TO COLLEOTORS  CUSTOMS D OTT RS CONC ERNED:
RE: Importation of forelgn editions of the book
entitled "The Amer1oan Blmek Chember" by
Major H. O. Yardley, in violetion of section
S1 of the Copyright Law of March 4, 1909.
The Bureem's attention has been celled to the fact that there
have beem imported into the United tates, by individual book sellers
for sale, eopies of the Knglish edition of the boor entitled "The
Ameriean Blaek Chamber" by Major H. 0. Yardley.
The above beok wme publlshed on June 1. l951, and 1s eovered by
copyright registration no. A-57720. In v1ew of the copyright regis-
tratiem the importation of the above book is prohibited under the
provisions of seetion 3l of the Copyright Law. Furthermore, sinee the
auther is an Amerieen, the release of one copy for individuel use and
not for sale under the provisions of section 31 (a)(1) of the Copyright
Law eamnot be authorised.
It is desired that spesial vigilance be exereised to prevent the
tmportation of any copies of foreign editioms of the above book and,
aesordingly, it is desired that you eall the eontents of this letter
to the particular attention of the oustoms offieers soncermed.
The contents of this letter are to be treated as strletly
seafisential.
Gommlssiener of Customs.
W80:mk 2/24/39

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
366.8
1.34
N
The Homorable
The Seeretery of tate.
B1r1
The receipt is moknowledged of your letter dated Yebruary
10, 1939 (Y1 894.927/), address0d to the Seeretery of the Treasury,
transmitting a copy of your letter addressed to Honorable frederiek
Van Naye, United States Senate, in reply to & refsrence from Semator
Van Nuys to the Department of State of a lettar dated January 18,
1959, eddressed to him by Mr. D. L. Jhambera, president of The Bobhs
Merrill Compaay, Indianapolls, Ind., in regard to the desire of The
Bobbs Merrill Company to publish a new edition of the took entitled
"The Ameriean Blaek Chamber" by Mejor . (. Yardley.
The Department hes been informally advised by the offiee of
the Register of Copyrights, ashinston, . J., that the above book
was publiehed on June l, 193l, and is oovered by copyright regis-
trat1on no. A-37780.
In view of the statement in r. Chambers' letter that copies
of the Mnglieh adition of the above book are being imported by
individual book sellere for sale in the United States, a Bureeu of
Custems eireular letter is beins sent to all colleators of customs
end other ofricers ecneerned eallins cttention to the existemse of
the Ameriean copyright covering the above book and instrueting them
te be espesially vigilant in preveating importations of foreigm
ditiems of the book in question. It will likewime be noted frem
the emelesed copy of the Buresu of Customs eiroular letter that the
enstems offieere have been instrueted to treet this matter as strietly
cemfidential.
By direetiom of the Secretary:
Very truly yours,
Assistent Seeretary of the Treasury.
Emelesure No. 41431.
w80:mk 2/24/39

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.94)
366.8
MAR
1939
The Honorsble
The eeretery of tate.
S1r1
The receipt is seknowledged of your letter dated Yebruary
18, 1939 (YE e94.927/), adcresmed to the pecretery of the Treasury.
tranmmitting a copy of your letter addressed to Honorable Frederick
Van Nuye, United States Jenate, in reply to e reforence from Semator
Ven Nuys to the Lepartment of State of & Lettar dated January 18,
1959, eddressed to him by Mr. . L. Shambera, president of The Bobbs
Merrill Campany, Indianapolls, Ind., in regard to the desire of The
Bobbe Werrill Compeny to publish a new edition of the took entitled
"The Ameriean Blaek Chamber" by Kajor . . Yar ley.
The Dopartment hes been Loformally advised by the office of
the Regieter of Copyrights, enhinston, L. O., that the above beok
wee publiehed on June l, lsl, and 1s covered by copyright resis-
tratiom no. A-37720.
In view of the statement in r. Chaabers' letter thut copies
of the nglish edition of the sbove book are being imported by
individual book sellere for sele in the United tatee, a Nureau of
Customs eireuler letter is beins sent to all colleetors of eustoms
end ather ofricers comeerned ssllin attontion to the existenee of
the Amerlean copyright covoring the: above book and instructing them
te be espesially vigilant in preventing importations of foreign
editiems of the book im questicn. It will likewlse be noted frem
the emelesed eepy of the lureeu of Customs eirouler letter that the
ewstoms offieers bave been instrueted to treat this mater as strietly
comfidemtial.
By direetiom of the Secretary:
Very truly yours,
Asstetent Seeretary of the Treasury.
Emelesare No. 41431.
*301mk 2/24/39

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
CIOENTD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SCR
February24, 1939
CAL RELATIONS
DEPAROMENTST
HORNBECK
1-1939
N
Mr. Salisbury this morning and, referring to the state-
ment in the letter of January 18, 1939, from the Bobbs
Merrill Company to Senator Van Nuys, in regard to the
question of republication of H. O. Yardley's "The American
Black Chamber", 1nauired whether "a second book" by Major
Yardley, referred to in the second paregraph of the letter
8
6
from the Bobbs Merrill Company, had ever been published.
94.727/
Mr. Salisbury replied thet the book referred to was
presumably the manuscript which Major Yardley had prepared
for publication but which had not been published beceuse
6
of the passage of legislation which prevented publication.
Mr. Clendenin then stated thet he was in the course
of drafting a strictly confidential circuler letter to ell
FILED
American Customs offices informing them that copies of
"The American Black Chamber" cannot be imported. He inquired
whether it was thought that the procedure of informing
Customs offices by means of a confidential circular would
be satisfactory. Mr. Salisbury replied that he would make
ConSdentia
inquiry and that, if officers of the Department were of a
contrary opinion, Mr. Clendenin would be so informed.
Subsequently, Mr. Salisbury informed Mr. Clendenin
by telephone that it was thought that it would be
F
advisable
A
1D
11

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
advisable to include in the body of the circular to
Customs officials a statement enjoining the Customs
offioials to treat the action in regard to "The American
Black Chamber" es confidentially as possible. Mr. Clendenin
replied that the letter had already been drafted and that
there was in the text a statement in regard to the desira-
bility of treating the matter confidentially. Mr. Clendenin
edded that a copy of the letter under reference would be
sent to the Department of State.
FE: SAl1abury:HJN
