894.54 Japan, Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., August 25, 1947 - (File 1601)
ID: 894.54-1601   Pages: 15   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.54-japan-intellectual-and-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
AWU
Treatments
Occupied areas
Jap

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Mr. Raymond Vernon
DATE: October 14, 1947
FROM: J. C. Green
SUBJECT: Preliminary draft of SWNCC paper on program for investigation of Japanese technology.

This will reply to your memoranda of September 23 and October 3. I believe that the modifications suggested in the latter paper wherein SCAP controls the program and the Publication Board is only responsible for U.S. technical information is infinitely preferable. In addition, I believe that some clear channel should be set up with SCAP in Japan whereby it can be determined whether a particular scientific or technical subject has already been covered in advance of the nomination and dispatch of any investigators to Japan.

I am sure that SCAP personnel have in their files much pertinent information and we would not want to send a scientist to Japan to collect data which might already exist within SCAP files.

JCG/hmp

INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
OCT 16 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
1634
Japan Technology

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO: IR - Mr. Vernon
DATE: October 2, 1947
FROM: OE - Mr. Whitman
RWM

SUBJECT: Program for Investigation of Japanese Technology.

1. OE is in agreement with the objectives and general plan of organization of the proposed group. It is considered, however, that paragraphs 4 c, e and g, indicate a degree of U. S. supervision and control over the selection of members of the group, and dissemination of the findings which would probably give rise to opposition in the FEC. It is suggested, therefore, that each interested FEC country select its own personnel within defined quota limitations, and that SCAP publish the findings of the group, except the information he may designate as still having military importance. This should not preclude the governments contributing personnel to the group making such dissemination of their representative's findings, after screening by SCAP, as they may consider desirable. The small size of the group, and the consequent need for specialization among its members, will probably require a certain amount of coordination among the interested FEC countries. It would seem best to accomplish this by consultation with the FEC countries, rather than to empower an official of the U. S. Government to act for the Supreme Commander in selecting the personnel required. I believe also that the maximum number of persons to comprise the group should be mentioned in paragraph 4 a.

2. The following is a suggested redraft of paragraph 4 to meet the above points:

a. A limited number of technical and scientific investigators (not to exceed a total of 25) from all interested FEC countries, shall be sent to Japan.

b. All investigators permitted by SCAP to enter Japan, shall be under SCAP's control.

c. Each investigator shall be obligated to make a full disclosure to SCAP of all technical information obtained by him, and no information shall be released by any investigator until SCAP makes it available for publication or release to FEC countries, as specified in d below.

d. SCAP will make available for publication, all technical information gathered in Japan, with the exception of that information designated by SCAP as still having military importance which shall be divulged only to the FEC governments, and not to other governments or to the public.

e. The U. S. Government will undertake to consult with the governments of other FEC countries, with a view to the selection of a group competent to investigate all branches of Japanese technical and scientific developments.

f. The

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

f. The official of the U.S. Government responsible for recruiting U.S. personnel, and for supervising their investigations in Japan, shall be Mr. John C. Green, Executive Secretary of the Publication Board, and Director of the Office of Technical Services of the Department of Commerce. Mr. Green, in cooperation with the Department of State, shall coordinate the recruitment of personnel in this country with similar recruitment in other FEC countries, to achieve most comprehensive coverage of Japanese technical and scientific developments. The Publication Board will be the agency of the U.S. Government for dissemination of information on Japanese technology, resulting from the findings of this group.

3. I suggest paragraph 5 c of the recommendations be changed to read: "Upon approval by SWNCC, the Department of State shall transmit paragraph 4 a through e to the FEC, and urge its adoption."

OSM
OE:OJMcDiarmid:mw

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
OMS
file with
Suspect paper

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Mr. Alfred W. Wells
DATE: September 19, 1947
FROM: J. C. Green
Japans
SUBJECT: Inquiry re. Office of Technical Services Funds for Japanese Exploitation.

In my original budget request I included an estimate of $200,000 to cover the cost of sending government personnel into Japan and make scientific explorations comparable to the work done in Germany. Since SCAP was not receptive to such a proposition, I did not include a comparable estimate in my present or future fiscal program.

As you will remember, SCAP has recommended that only a very small number be permitted to come to Japan and those people must work under SCAP's supervision. This very modest activity can be easily handled by voluntary industry cooperation and does not require the expenditure of government funds. I have maintained the corps of my Washington recruiting staff intact and they have the industrial "contacts" necessary to recruit on a voluntary basis experienced investigators for the short time involved.

In essence, SCAP opposition to a large-scale activity in Japan resulted in my decision to remove such a program as a separate item in the current budget request. However, I believe there will be no difficulty in handling the very restricted program presently envisaged by SCAP, State and Commerce.

JCG/hmp

INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
SEP 23 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 28 1947
DIRECTOR
Department of State
DATE: August 27, 1947

TO: FE - Mr. Allison
FROM: NA - Mr. Fearey
SUBJECT: Technical Investigations in Japan.

It appears from the attached letter from General Eberle, and from a conversation I had with CAD's patent specialist, Mr. Stevenson, before the letter was written, that we are up against a stone wall. I pointed out to Carpenter that paragraph 24 of JCS 1380/15 (attached), providing for "the protection from destruction and the maintenance" of equipment and patents belonging to the Zaibatzu as a feature of the Zaibatzu program, would not necessarily prevent examination of the material by Allied investigators, but War probably has a point in arguing that SCAP would want a SWNCC decision and JCS directive before authorizing the proposed missions. It is a nice question whether an FEC decision is advisable too. I believe it would be.

Paragraph 13 of Appendix C, SWNCC 369 (attached) is so far from meeting our needs that a separate paper seems clearly necessary. I suggest that the whole matter be turned over to OE to write the paper in consultation with IR, that you phone Graves to let him know informally how things stand, and that his note of July 9 be answered by JK as soon as they have determined their full course of action. Hemmendinger wants to be advised as per his note of August 25 on what we plan to do.

Attached:
1. Paragraphs 23 and 24 of JCS 1380/15.
2. Paragraph 13 of Appendix C of SWNCC 369

NA:RAFearey:ggg

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
ENCLOSURE

Paragraphs 23 and 24 of JCS 1380/15, "Basic Directive for Post-surrender Military Government in Japan Proper".

"Elimination of Certain Elements in the Japanese Economic System"

"23. You will prohibit the retention in or selection for positions of important responsibility or influence in industry, finance, commerce, or agriculture of all persons who have been active exponents of militant nationalism and aggression, of those who have actively participated in the organizations enumerated in paragraph 5 g (page 141, Political and General Part) of this directive, and of any who do not direct future Japanese economic effort solely towards peaceful ends. (In the absence of evidence, satisfactory to you, to the contrary, you will assume that any persons who have held key positions of high responsibility since 1937, in industry, finance, commerce or agriculture have been active exponents of militant nationalism and aggression.)

"24. You will require the protection from destruction and the maintenance for such disposition as may be determined by this and other directives of all plants, equipment, patents, books and records and all other significant property of the large Japanese industrial and financial companies and trade and research associations that have played an important part in the Japanese war effort or economy."

Paragraph 13 of Appendix C of SWNCC 369, "Treatment of Japanese Domestic and Foreign Patents".

"13. The Japanese Patent Office shall, as soon as practicable, resume the publication of official gazettes and patent specifications in order to effect disclosure of all hitherto unpublished patents and pending patent application and prompt publication of all future patent applications. In order to expedite general access to worthwhile technical data in hitherto unavailable Japanese patent specifications, patent applications, and other sources in Japan, SCAP shall authorize and lend assistance to the immediate publication of such patent documents and, in so far as practicable, any other technological data of value, through any appropriate media and in any appropriate languages. For such publication, data and documents may be selected on the basis of their commercial or military value and their circulation by SCAP need not be extended beyond governments members of FEC."

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-H
AUG 25 1947
GENERAL HILLDRING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT SPECIAL STAFF
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

WDSCA 072

21 August 1947

Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
Special Assistant to the Secretary
Department of State

Dear Mr. Saltzman:

Inclosed is a draft cable to SCAP forwarded by your office on 7 August 1947. This cable has been considered carefully and it is believed that the action proposed should be made the subject of consideration both by SWNCC and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, inasmuch as it appears to fall within the purview of paragraph 24 of JCS 1380/15. In addition it should be noted that paragraph 13 of appendix C, SWNCC 369 bears on this matter. This paper is presently under SWNCC consideration.

G. L. EBERLE
Brigadier General, USA
Acting Chief, Civil Affairs Division

1 Incl
A-H 2627
(draft cable)

2627

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
August 7

SCAP ACTION

CAB: CAB - State.

D/PO; Mr. Peterson; CAD; CAD - State.

From WDSCA.

British Govt has renewed request of Mar 11 for permission dispatch small number British scientists Japan to investigate Japanese scientific and technical advances, and Executive SECY John C. Green of Publication Board remains strongly desirous dispatch American mission same purpose (ourad W95430 April 3).

Considerations advanced urad C 51591, Apr 8, against unilateral action by US this matter, and practical difficulties attendant on authorization any substantial number Allied technicians enter Japan at this time, are appreciated. It is therefore proposed British be allowed to send only two technicians for present which they say would be satisfactory to them, and US same number. Other FEC Govts would be notified and afforded same opportunity, with possibility participating nations would agree each to survey and report advances in one industry. Information in Japanese Patent Office should also be made available representatives FEC countries now in Japan. Info obtained by all missions would be submitted Executive Secy Green, who has indicated willingness assume responsibility for publication and general dissemination.

State has reexamined problem of Japanese patent rights and perceives no obstacles, particularly with passage HR 4070 (now awaiting President's signature), Section 3 of which provides that German and Japanese nationals may not apply for or obtain patents in US for any invention made or upon which application filed before Jan 1, 1946, in Germany or Japan or in territory of any other Axis powers or in any territory occupied by Axis forces. UK understood to have similar law. Since Japanese inventions and discoveries made before Jan 1, 1946, are thus in effect thrown into public domain by two principally affected Allies, problem protection Japanese property interests largely removed. As for unpatentable info, policy this Govt as expressed in Executive Order 9604, Aug 28, 1945, is to make prompt, public, free and general dissemination enemy scientific and industrial info. Companies put into effect in Germany with no compensation German property interests or any other credit.

Please advise soonest whether foregoing plan acceptable.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Japan-Korea Secretariat
DATE: August 5, 1947

FROM : NA: R. Fearey

SUBJECT: Attached Wire

A proposal to send an American technical mission to Japan to exploit Japanese technical advances was first put up to SCAP in April (see attached carbon) on the initiative of John C. Green, Executive Secretary of the Publication Board, and turned down by SCAP in his attached C-51591, April 8. No further action was taken in the succeeding months, mainly because it was hoped passage by SWNCC and FEC of the Japanese patent paper would help to meet certain of SCAP's objections. This paper is still before SWNCC, however, and with the renewed British request, and assurance by IR, which drafted the third paragraph of the proposed telegram, that there is no need to await passage of the patent paper, it has been thought advisable to approach SCAP again. The proposal in the draft wire is acceptable to the British and to Green and it is believed should also meet SCAP's objections.

NA: RAFearey/pm

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT PARAGRAPH

Problem of Japanese patent rights mitigated by recent passage H.R. 4070 (now awaiting President's signature) Section 3 of which provides that German and Japanese nationals may not apply for or obtain patents in United States for any invention made, or upon which application filed before January 1, 1946 in Germany or Japan or in territory of any other Axis Powers or in any territory occupied by Axis forces. United Kingdom understood to have similar law. Since Japanese inventions and discoveries made before January 1, 1946 thus thrown into public domain, problem protection Japanese property interests largely removed. As for unpatentable "know-how", policy this Government as expressed in Executive Order 9604, August 28, 1945, is to make prompt, public, free and general dissemination enemy scientific and industrial information without compensation. This policy already put into effect in Germany.

Dictated over phone to Feary's office.
Cleared with minor amendments by Feary over phone 8/4/47

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT TELEGRAM TO SCAP
(through War)

British GOVT has renewed request of MAR 11 for permission dispatch small number British scientists Japan to investigate Japanese scientific and technical advances, and Executive SECY John C. Green of Publication Board remains strongly desirous dispatch American mission same purpose (OURAD W95430 April 3).

Considerations advanced URAD C51591, APR 8, against unilateral action by US this matter, and practical difficulties attendant on authorization any substantial number Allied technicians enter Japan at this time, are appreciated. It is therefore proposed British be allowed to send only two technicians for present, which they say would be satisfactory to them, and US same number. Other FEC GOVTs would be notified and afforded same opportunity, with possibility participating nations would agree each to survey and report advances in one industry. Info obtained by all missions would be submitted Executive SECY Green, who has indicated willingness assume responsibility for publication and general dissemination.

STATE has reexamined problem of Japanese patent rights and perceives no obstacles, particularly with passage HR-4070 (now awaiting President's signature), Section 3 of which provides that German and Japanese nationals may not apply for or obtain patents in US for any invention made or upon which application filed before JAN 1, 1946, in Germany or Japan or in territory of any other

26-7

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

any other Axis powers or in any territory occupied by Axis forces. UK understood to have similar law. Since Japanese inventions and discoveries made before JAN 1, 1946, are thus in effect thrown into public domain by two principally affected Allies problem protection Japanese property interests largely removed. As for unpatentable info, policy this GOVT as expressed in Executive Order 9604, AUG 28, 1945, is to make prompt, public, free and general dissemination enemy scientific and industrial info. Long since put into effect in Germany with no compensation German property interests or reparation credit.

Please advise soonest whether foregoing plan acceptable.

NA:RAFerey/pm
IR:JPFurman
(Cleared by phone)
FE
JK
A-H

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

August 25, 1947

TO: NA Mr. Peary.

FROM: Mr. Hemmingsinger.

SUBJECT: Technical Investigations in Japan.

The annexed letter of 21 August 1947 from General Eberle is referred to you pursuant to our conversation. Please let me know what the next move should be.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

Insert as next to last sentence of second paragraph:

"Information in Japanese Patent Office should also be made available representatives FEC countries now in Japan."

2207 per L17 1311 per L20

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO: IR - Mr. Vernon DATE: Feb. 17, 1948
FROM: IR - Mr. Wells
SUBJECT: Investigation of Japanese Technology

After talking with Mr. R. B. Smith (OE, extension 292) I
receive the very definite impression that he and others are doing
everything they can to expedite the two SANACC papers on the
investigation of Japanese technology (the short policy paper
prepared by Baker and the long one drawn up in our shop).

General Draper has refused to send a cable to SCAP pointing
out the inconsistency of the Army Department's current position
that permitting FEC technicians to investigate would violate U.S.
security. Therefore, this leaves the U.S. without a position
and the U.S. member on FEC as the only one without instructions
how to vote.

The whole matter is rapidly being brought to a head with the
current discussions on the Australian proposal, which in essence
differs little from ours. A vote will apparently be taken in the
very near future, and Mr. Smith feels that General McCoy is an
honest and straightforward man who will probably object quite
violently to voting against the Australian proposal. Mr. Smith
said that the decision on this matter may have to be referred
well up the latter of our Government, and perhaps to the top.

I believe that the Australian proposal could take the place
of OE's short policy paper and that our long one could act as
implementation of the Australian paper.

IR: AWWells:osm
