894.7200 Telegraph. Concessions. Construction. Equipment., Communication Between Japan And The World. Use Smaller Number Of Country For **., February 17, 1947 - June 27, 1947 (File 1579)
ID: 894.7200-1579   Pages: 10   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.7200-telegraph-concessions-construction-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
278
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: A-H - JK/Sec
DATE: February 17, 1947
FROM: JK - Mr. Martin
SUBJECT: Attached Draft Cable to SCAP

Our radio W-88575 of December 28, 1946, proposed that SCAP establish categories of messages that may be prepaid in yen when sent from Japan to other areas. Such messages would be deemed essential for the occupation, and the foreign carrier's share would be paid by SCAP in foreign currencies out of his import-export funds. SCAP radio, C-69633 of January 30, 1947, stated that category deemed to be essential for the occupation, should be restricted to expeditionary force, sender composition, press and government messages, over other than U.S. circuits. SCAP further stated that of these categories, only expeditionary force and sender composition messages should continue to be prepaid in yen. Restricting yen prepaid messages to these categories will reduce present volume of traffic, since private messages can now be sent prepaid in yen between Japan and other countries, excepting the U.S. The matter of press messages is being dealt with in a separate communication.

Our reply concurs in SCAP's suggestion to restrict yen prepaid messages to the EFM and SCM categories, but suggests that in making financial arrangements he consider including yen prepaid messages desirable for promoting Japanese foreign trade. We further suggest that the sender-take-all basis which is believed to be the present method of financial settlement between Japan and other countries excepting the U.S., is not desirable when outbound prepaid traffic is restricted and inbound traffic is unrestricted as the Japanese carriers will not receive their fair portion under such arrangements. We favor arrangements with foreign telecommunications administrations for proper accounting for all messages, and arrangements by which the Japanese share of foreign currency collections less the foreign carrier's share of yen collections be made available in currencies usable for Japanese imports.

U.K. Treasury representative has written JK Division that certain difficulties have arisen in negotiations with SCAP regarding financial settlement for traffic on the soon to be reopened London-Osaka circuit. According to information from the British, SCAP has requested that the British representative in Japan remit through government channels to the British Wireless and Cable Company, the British share of yen collection in Japan, and that the Japanese share of sterling collections in the U.K. be deposited in SCAP foreign trade account. This would be unsatisfactory to the British and they prefer to offset anything owing to a British carrier for yen prepaid messages from Japan against sterling balances accruing to the Japanese carrier in the U.K. Since this is the procedure that we have contemplated and is in accordance with general settlement practice, we are suggesting that SCAP proceed on this basis.

JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw
RESTRICTED
894 7200/2-1747
83m
32m
JAYSIK A-H

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
file
A. K.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

3/6/47

To: General Hilldring

From: Mr. Moreland

Subj: Japanese Telecommunications.

Our W 88575 of December 28, 1946, proposed that SCAP establish categories of messages that may be prepaid in yen and sent from Japan to other areas. In C 69633, of January 30, 1947, SCAP listed the categories considered essential for the occupation. The attached cable concurs in SCAP's proposal, but suggests that he consider including in these categories yen-prepaid messages which are desirable for promoting Japanese foreign trade. Further suggestions are made with regard to the method of financial settlement between Japan and other countries on such traffic. Information and comments are also requested with regard to negotiations between SCAP and the British in regard to financial settlement for traffic and the soon-to-be-reopened London-Osaka circuit.

This message has been concurred in by Col. Dice, W.D. Ext. 74081, and I recommend your approval.

AH-1004

Phoned to C A D. Dice.
3/7/47. a. B.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Colonel Chard
2/21/47

Mr. Moreland
Japanese Telecommunications.

Our W-88575 of 28 December proposed that SCAP establish categories of messages that may be prepaid in yen when sent from Japan to other areas. Such messages would be deemed essential for the occupation, and the foreign carrier's share would be paid by SCAP in foreign currencies out of his import-export funds. SCAP radio, C-69633 of 30 January stated that category deemed to be essential for the occupation, should be restricted to expeditionary force, sender composition, press and government messages, over other than U.S. circuits. SCAP further stated that of these categories, only expeditionary force and sender composition messages should continue to be prepaid in yen. Restricting yen prepaid messages to these categories will reduce present volume of traffic, since private messages can now be sent prepaid in yen between Japan and other countries, excepting the U.S. The matter of press messages is being dealt with in a separate communication.

Our reply concurs in SCAP's suggestion to restrict yen prepaid messages to the EDM and SCM categories, but suggests that in making financial arrangements he consider including yen prepaid messages desirable for promoting Japanese foreign trade. We further suggest that the sender-take-all basis which is believed to be the present method of financial settlement between Japan and other countries excepting the U.S. is not desirable when outbound prepaid traffic is restricted and inbound traffic is unrestricted as the Japanese carriers will not receive their fair portion under such arrangements. We favor arrangements with foreign telecommunications administration for proper accounting for all messages, and arrangements by which the Japanese share of foreign currency collections less the foreign carrier's share of yen collections be made available in currencies usable for Japanese imports.

U.K. Treasury representative has written State that certain difficulties have arisen in negotiations with SCAP regarding financial settlement for traffic on the soon-to-be-reopened London-Osaka circuit. According to information from the British, SCAP has requested that the British representative in Japan remit the British share of yen collected in Japan through government channels to the British wireless and Cable Company, and that the Japanese share of sterling collections in the U.K. be deposited in SCAP foreign trade account. This would be unsatisfactory to the British as they prefer to offset anything owing to a British carrier for yen prepaid messages from Japan against sterling balances accruing to the Japanese carrier in the U.K. Since this is the procedure that we have contemplated and is in accordance with general settlement practice, we are suggesting that SCAP proceed on this basis.

I should appreciate your securing War Department concurrence for the attached draft cable and notifying me on State, 3776.

AM-1004

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
General Hilldring April 9, 1947
Mr. Moreland
Radiotelegraph Service U. K. - Japan.

1. In SCAP cable C-50946, 18 March 1947, question is raised as to status of negotiations with the British regarding opening London-Osaka radiotelegraph circuit. SCAP understands that the question of financial settlement for traffic over this circuit is under discussion here. Status of these discussions and British proposal as to method of settlement was transmitted to SCAP in WAR 93605, 8 March 1947. Policy that actual negotiations as to terms of financial settlement telecommunications circuits between Japan and foreign countries should be conducted by SCAP was set forth in WAR 88575, 28 December 1947.

2. We consider acceptable British suggestion that only "prepaid into and collect from" messages should be handled at this time. Jap carriers share of foreign exchange accruing from this traffic should be made available for trade purposes. This was set forth in WAR 88575. Recommendation was also made in WAR 88575, that SCAP establish essential categories of messages that could be sent prepaid in yen.

3. War Department concurrence has been secured through Colonel Dice. I recommend concurrence.

A-H-1304.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: April 16, 1947

TO : General Hilldring

FROM : Mr. Moreland

SUBJECT: Great Northern Telegraph Company Relay Station at Nagasaki.

State Department has been informed through the Embassy at Copenhagen that the Great Northern Telegraph Company, a Danish concern, has requested permission of SCAP to reestablish a cable relay station at Nagasaki. The Company emphasizes the fact that it is merely requesting permission to join its Shanghai-Nagasaki and Nagasaki-Vladivostok cables, to maintain in its building there the necessary instruments and a very limited staff for relaying the transiting telegraph signal of one cable to the other, and to have the necessary instruments for testing and balancing the submarine cable.

The attached cable requests the status of subject company's application for resumption of service at Nagasaki to form a basis for reply to the American Embassy at Copenhagen.

War Department concurrence has been secured through Colonel Dice. I recommend your concurrence.

Attached also is Departmental cable informing the American Embassy at Copenhagen that the matter has been referred to SCAP and that the Embassy will be advised as soon as reply is received. - sent to C R for despatch

Attachments.
Rhodd to Nice, 4/13/47, asb.

AH-1464

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FOR 4 NO. 84

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: April 11, 1947

TO: Executive Officer, CAD, War Dept.

FROM: Mr. Moreland, A-H, State Dept. (3775)

SUBJECT: Great Northern Telegraph Company Relay Station at Nagasaki.

State Department has been informed through the Embassy at Copenhagen that the Great Northern Telegraph Company, a Danish concern, has requested permission of SCAP to reestablish a cable relay station at Nagasaki. The Company emphasizes the fact that it is merely requesting permission to join its Shanghai-Nagasaki and Nagasaki-Vladivostok cables, to maintain in its building there the necessary instruments and a very limited staff for relaying the transiting telegraph signal of one cable to the other, and to have the necessary instruments for testing and balancing the submarine cable.

The attached cable requests the status of subject company's application for resumption of service at Nagasaki to form a basis for reply to the American Embassy at Copenhagen.

Attachment.

AH-1464

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
FLAIN
SCAP
ACTION

OPD, Mr. Petersen: CAD (STATE); CAD

State has received info through Embassy at Copenhagen that Great Northern Telegraph Company has requested your permission to reestablish its cable relay station at Nagasaki. Request info soonest this service may be resumed.

AH-1464

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 5/1/47

TO : Executive, CAD
FROM : Mr. Moreland
SUBJECT: Japanese Telecommunication.

By cable C 51680, 10 April, SCAP proposed to place all countries on the same basis in respect to the payment for messages to and from Japan. He does not propose permitting yen prepaid messages to be sent from Japan except KFM and SCM messages of accredited personnel. The attached cable indicates that SCAP's views in this matter may be accepted for the time being with the understanding that when private trade with Japan is established the subject of yen prepayment of trade messages be reconsidered.

SCAP indicates that the British have suggested that yen accrued to British carriers for messages sent prepaid Japan to Commonwealth points be converted into sterling on the basis that such yen represented yen pay to their forces. The attached cable concurs with SCAP's views that this plan is undesirable and suggests that the practice in regard to UK should be under similar basis as in the case of the US personnel.

The attached cable has the concurrence of the State Department and may be transmitted without further reference to this office.

This cable is in response to SCAP C 51680 (CM-IN 1748, 11 April 1947).

AH:ABMoreland:mds
AH 1472

Phoned blue 5/1/47

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
7 235
OFFICE MEMORANDUM • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : TD - Mr. O'Connor
DATE: April 16, 1947
FROM : JK - Mr. McDiarmid
SUBJECT: SCAP Cable C-51680, 10 April 1947.

Pursuant to our telephone conversation of April 16, 1947, subject message is being transferred to your Division for appropriate action.

My understanding of the substance of this message is that SCAP proposes to place all countries on the same basis in respect to the payment for messages to and from Japan. He does not propose permitting yen prepaid messages to be sent from Japan, except EFM and SCM messages of accredited personnel. It will be recalled that SCAP initially recommended (in December) that personal messages from non-accredited personnel be sent prepaid in yen. We replied that he should establish essential categories such as trade promotion messages that could be sent on a yen prepaid basis. His position now is that the need does not exist for this type of communication, because of the relaxation of restrictions on postal and communications services, and the introduction of reply prepaid messages. I think we may accept SCAP's view on this matter, with the proviso that when private trade with Japan is established, the subject of yen prepayment of trade messages be reconsidered.

With respect to the handling of messages on the London-Osaka circuit, sent from or to accredited personnel in Japan, SCAP's view seems to be that yen collected in Japan from yen prepaid messages, and representing the British share thereof, should be converted into sterling by the British Government to pay the British carrier's share in sterling. The alternative to this would be to have the British carrier's share of yen prepaid messages, paid from sterling accruing to the Japanese carrier's from sterling collect or prepaid traffic. This latter procedure would be in accordance with the British view. I think SCAP's rejection of the latter procedure on grounds that free funded yen would be used to prepay the messages from Japan, may have some validity, though this is a roundabout way of making the British pay something for funded yen. I think, however, we should examine the U.S. practice in this regard as nearly as practicable, and place the U.K. on a similar basis.

JK will be glad to participate in any meeting you may arrange with the War Department to prepare a reply to this message.

JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw

894.7200/4-1647

RESTRICTED

CONFIDENTIAL
Cable drafted to SCAP, 4/28/47, W.O.C.
File
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
T-389

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : A-H - JK Secretariat
DATE: June 27, 1947

FROM : JK - Roswell Whitman
RWM

SUBJECT: Relaxation of Mail Communications with Japan.

SCAP cable C 53391 dealing with the relaxation of mail communications with Japan, was received June 16. On virtually the same date a cable (War 99940) went forth to SCAP, dealing with transactional mail. An adequate answer to SCAP's C53391 cannot be made until SCAP's answer is received to the outgoing cable (War 99940). The following interim reply is proposed:

DRAFT TELEGRAM TO SCAP

Reurad C53391. Believe this message dispatched prior to your receipt ourad War 99940. Reference to censorship in point one of War 99940 suggests you may desire reconsider your proposal discontinue 100 % censorship as outlined urad C 53391 since your definition of "transactional-mail" will affect size and character of censorship task. Also, policy admitting transactional communications on limited basis may have bearing on need retain censorship as control device. Any press release prepared should include both further expansion of informational mail and reopening of transactional mail. Request your answer ourad War 99940 also include your reconsideration urad C 53391. Nothing further.

894.7200/6-2747

JK:DOB6wma;bcb
6/27/47

ESP
NA
(Mr. Peary)
A-H/SJK
A-H

TD
(cleared by O'Connor)

X 14
