894.51 Japan, Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., January 13, 1940 - September 7, 1940 (File 1209)
ID: 894.51-1209   Pages: 225   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.51-japan-financial-conditions-12
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
LLS COMPANY
OFFICEA
OLIS. MINN
LLSBURYFLOUR
MILLSYMPANY
MILL
NEAPOLIS -BUFFALO-ATCHISON. KAW.-ENID. OKLA-SPRINDPECDFILL-ASTORIA, ORE.
GENERAL QFFICES MINNEAPOLIS. MINN.
aide- zénocre
handel to augtralia
Sougpealor of Bzitish
COPRDS
Embassy, TH eb. 10
Chunghing
EgL
13, 1940.
MR. HUKABL
JAN 301940
Mr. Leslle Wheeler,
U.s. Lepartment of Agr)
ature,
FAI CASTERN AFFANRS
Washington, L. C.
March 5 1940
Dear Leslie:
I am just in receipt of an airmail letter from
the Pacific Coast advisin. me thnt Australia recently sold
894.51
a large amount of wheat to Japan, civing 12 to 18 months
open oredit. e have also been acvised by une of the large
894.5
Japanese firms that Australia now offers to sell flour to
North China and Deiren on open credit terms at a price which
works out about 25 less than the price of American flour.
This letter is not written to you with any intention
of referring to the oxpcrt assistance which expired on
January 3. It is written tecause of the international re-
96
lationships between En land and the United States and Japan,
whioh I don't think wo l. werrart extending to Japan any
59
credit whatsoever. 1 don't know whether this letter should
be addressed to the Stete Lepartrent or to yourself, but it
would soem to me that t rough the mdium of your Wheat
Committee whioh Donald Christy attended in London, that
recommendations might be passed on to Australia against ex-
tonding credit, nd it is just possible that if this action
were brought to the ears of the proper people in Westminster,
that tney also would frown on such action.
1 mhall be interested to hear what action you may
decide to take.
Yours faithfully,
MAR 7-1940
FILED
AEM:L
Fred Mallomn
c/c Max Hamilton,
State Department,
Washington,D.C.
N

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ra/H
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 1, 1940
It is suggested that Mr. Hornbeck ask
Mr. Keith Officer, Australian Counselor of
the British Embassy, to call and that he
hand him the attached aide-mémoire.
It is further suggested that Mr. Hornbeck
describe orally to Mr. Officer the policy
which this Government has been following
with regard to the extension of credits to
Japan by private firms and that he say that
it is our understanding that the British
Government is following the same policy.
It may be noted here that shortly after
the outbreak of war in Europe, the Australian
Government assumed control over the 1939-40
wheat crop and that the action referred to in
the aide-mémoire is presumably that of the
Australian Government.
mmN
Tokyo, hondon,
Copues
MR. HURNISLLY
1-1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE:JOnSSOREK/MHP

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
DIMIGIOMBFPAREASTERN AFFAIRS
January 26, 1940
of Agriculture told me over the telephone
that the information contained in Mr. Mal-
lon's letter had beenspassed on to
form the wheat committee whatever value
that action might be worth. He also suggested
that we might wish to act on the matter
through diplomatic channels but that in as
much as the State Department already had
a copy of Mr. Mallon's letter the Depart-
ment of Agriculture would not communicate
with us further in this regard.
MR. HORNBECK
JAN 30 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE:Hohes: MHP

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HLCEIVED
DIVISION'OFFAKEEASTERNTAFFAIRS
January 23, 1940
1940 FEB 15 AM 11 48
The original of Mr. Mallon'e letter is
course, unusual in the flour trade. Further-
more, Christy tells me that when Mr. Mallon
eays that "Australia recently sold ....", he
refers to the Australian Government since the
Government there directly or indirectly con-
trols the flour trade during the present
emergenoy. It was Christy's off-hand opinion
that nothing could be accomplished through the
Wheat Committee and that it was a matter for
diplomatic action. He said that we could
expect a letter from the Department of
Agriculture shortly and suggeeted that we might
take no action until we had received that
communication.
MR. HORNBECK
JAN 30 1940
FEIJoneS:HJN

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.90)
t七
01
AIDE-MRLIOIRE
The Government of the United tates has received
reports from private souroes to the effeot that a large
amount of Australian wheat was recently sold to Japan
894.51/659
on a twelve to eighteen months' open eredit and that
Australian wheat flour is now being offered for sale to
North Chine and Dairen on open oredit terms at an
extraordinarily low priee. In view of its interest in
the situation in the Far East and the bearing whish
transeetiens on the basis mentioned would have upem shat
sétussion, the Goverament of the Uniteß stetes woule
appeeciate reecivins any iaformetien evailable te the
Australian Commonwealth
Sererament of thel in regere to the aesuseey of the
SOOStS iEr seterenee.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.89)
Jamuary 25, 1940.
thank you for sending me the copy of your lottasr
at Jamary 15, 1940, to Mr. Leslie Wheeler of the Umitee
Stasee Department of Agrioulture in regare te the mstee
of extension by Australia of credits to Japes, meeth
894.51/659
Giem and Dairem for the purehase of wheat flour.
We are studying the matter at the presemt time and
 amything of interest or importance materialises I
thall expeat to communicate with you further.
Sineerely yours,
3.5.10.
894.51
Fred Wallen,
allatey Pour Mille Cempany.
Mimnespelis, Mimmeseta.
Ea

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATEROPEAN AFF
3
RECEIVED
DEPA
NT OF STATE
Pais
ughing)
894.51
in FE's memorandum of February 1.
Mr. Officer said that he would be very glad to make
of his Government the inquiry conveyed in the aide-mémoire
and that he was sure that they would be glad to give us
FW
the information. He said that he himself understood in
894.51/65
a general way the attitude and recent procedure of the
American Government in regard to this problem of credits.
He said that the Australian Government was compelled to
take into consideration one very important factor, namely,
59
that Japan was a very important market for Australia. He
said that the American Government was very well aware of
some of Australia's problems in connection with overgeas
7
markets and of the feeling of some of the Australians,
including himself, on the subject. I said that, in regard
to the matter immediately under reference, we were simply
seeking to be accurately informed and to impart information --
with whatever implication of a suggestion might be drawn
from knowledge of the facts.
ON POLITICAL
Mr. Offioer
CK
B29940
F/N
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Mr. Officer then produced a copy of a newspaper
article by Mr. Kluckhohn which gave an account of repre-
sentations said to have been made by this Government to
the French and the Japanese Governments on the subject
of the Yunnan Railway. He asked whether the article was
based on fact and whether it was substantially accurate.
I produced a copy of the statement which Mr. McDermott
had used in conversations with the press a few days ago
on that subject. I explained the action which we had
taken and the ground on which it was based. Mr. Officer
expressed appreciation. He said that he had made this
inquiry on behalf of the British Embassy. -- I then took
occasion to say that, speaking utterly informally and off
the record, I had been wondering whether the British Gov-
ernment had given any thought to the possibility of its
manifesting, by way of parallel action, some concern
regarding the keeping open of the Yunnan Railway. I said
that I of course fully realized that the British Government
is confronted by plenty of problems, but that there are a
good many situations in connection with the Far East in
which there are common interests and in which parallel
indications of concern on the part of several powers are
not unnatural and might be helpful. Mr. Officer said
that he understood the principle involved. I said that
I was not venturing a suggestion but was merely calling
attention to a possibility.
StanleyK Hornbeok
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
194
Assistant Secretary
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
of State
WASHINGTON
Division of
OFPARTMENT OF STATE
1940
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE CHAIRMAN
MAR 5 - 1940
940 MAR 1 PM 2 17 FEB 2 9 1940
MR. GRADY
Department of State
MR. HORNEGhing ton, D. C.
AND RECORDS
OFFICE
MAR 5-1940
Your file No. PI 894.51/65
Mr. Grady:
This 1s in reply to your letter of February 23,
894.51/660
1940 requesting an expression of views on the question
of the applicability of the Securities Act of 1933 to
the importation of eight Japanese Government bonds into
the Philippine Islands for sale to Japanese residents
there.
The Commission's General Counsel has considered
the matter and has advised me that he is of the opinion
that the Securities Act of 1933 is applicable to the
sale of the securities in question. It is his opinion
that this conclusion is not affected by the adoption of
the Philippine Securities Act of 1936. Since no regis-
tration statement is in effect as to any such bonds, the
proposed importation would appear to involve a violation
of the Act. Although the facts submitted are insuffic-
ient to permit any definite conclusion to be formed on
this point, no exemption appears to be available for the
proposed importation.
MAR 8
For your convenient reference, I am enclosing
FILED
a copy of the Act and the Rules and Regulations there-
under. You will note that the term "Territory" in
and that the term "interstate commerce" as defined in
6
Section 2(7), among others, means commerce between
"any foreign country and any State, Territory . .
n
Further, Section 3 does not exempt securities issued
or guaranteed by foreign countries from the operation
of the Act and Section 7 specifically sets out informa-
tion to be included in a registration statement
"relating to a security issued by a foreign government".
F/N

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
The Hon. Henry F. Grady
2.
As you know, unless exempted, registration
is required of all securities offered for sale,
sold or delivered after sale through the mails or
in interstate commerce. Although the act of im-
portation, of itself, is of course not prohibited,
in the present circumstances the importation ap-
pears to be clearly for purposes of sale or for
delivery after sale.
If there should arise any question as to the
application of any exemptive provision of the Act,
I shall be glad to be of further assistance.
Sincerely yours,
SA Fal
Jerome N. Frank
Chairman
Enclosures:
SA, 1933
SA, Gen. R & R.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
Assistant Secretary
of State
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
1-1940
[PUBLIC—No. 22—73D CoNGREss]
WF
TRADY
[H.R. 5480]
AN ACT
To provide full and fair disclosure of the character of securities sold in inter-
state and foreign commerce and through the mails, and to prevent frauds in
the sale thereof. and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I
SHORT TITLE
Secrion 1. This title may be cited as the " Securities Act of 1988".
DEFINITIONS
Seo. 2. When used in this title, unless the context otherwise
requires—
(1) The term " security " means any note, stock, treasury stock, bond,
debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participa-
tion in any profilt-sharing agreement, collateral-trust certifioate, pre-
arganization certificate or subsoription, transferable share, investment
contract, voting-trust oertificate, certificate of deposit for a security,
fractional undivided interest in oil, gas, or other mineral rights, or, in
general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a "security," or
any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim cer-
tiflcate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to
or purchase, any of the foregoing.1
(2) The term "person" means an individual, a corporation, a
partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a trust, any unin-
corporated organization, or a government or political subdivision
thereof. As used in this paragraph the term "trust" shall include
only a trust where the interest or interests of the beneficiary or bene-
ficiaries are evidenced by a security.
(3) The term "sale", "sell ", "offer to sell ", or "offer for sale"
shall include every contract of sale or disposition of, attempt or offer
1 The matter appearing in bold-face type with footnote references represents subsections
and subparagraphs as gmended. This and subsequent footnotes contain the text prior to
amendment. Bold-faced type without footnote references indicates proplslone added by
amendment. The amendments, effective July 1, 1984, are contained in Title If of Becuri-
ties Exchange Act of 1984, approved June 8, 1984.
(1) The term "security " means any note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evi-
dence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any proft-sharing agree-
ment, colfateral-trust certiicate, preorganization certifcate or subscription, transferable
share, investment contract, voting-trust certificate, certifcate of interest in property,
tangible or intangible, or, in general, any instrument commonly known as & security, or
any certificate of interest or participation in. temporary or interim certifiçate for, receipt
for, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing.
(1)
★158345°—39-—1

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
2
to dispose of, or solicitation of an offer to buy, a security or interest
in a security, for value; except that such terms shall not include
preliminary negotiations or agreements between an issuer and any
underwriter. Any security given or delivered with, or as a bonus
on account of, any purchase of securities or any other thing, shall
be conclusively presumed to constitute a part of the subject of such
purchase and to have been sold for value. The issue or transfer of
a right or privilege, when originally issued or transferred with a
security, giving the holder of such security the right to convert such
security into another security of the same issuer or of another person.
or giving a right to subscribe to another security of the same issuer
or of another person, which right cannot be exercised until some
future date, shall not be deemed to be a sale of such other security;
but the issue or transfer of such other security upon the exercise of
such right of conversion or subscription shall be deemed a sale of
such other security.
(4) The term "issuer" means every person who issues or proposes to
issue any security; except that with respect to certificates of deposit.
voting-trust certificates, or collateral-trust certificates, or with respect to
certificates of interest or shares in an unincorporated investment trust
not having a board of directors (or persons performing similar functions)
or of the fixed, restricted management, or unit type, the term "issuer"
means the person or persons performing the acts and assuming the duties
of depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust or other
agreement or instrument under which such securities are issued; except
that in the case of an unincorporated association which provides by its
articles for limited liability of any or all of its members, or in the case
of a trust, committee, or other legal entity, the trustees or members
thereof shall not be individually liable as issuers of any security issued
by the association, trust, committee, or other legal entity; except that
with respect to equipment-trust certificates or like securities, the term
"issuer"means the person by whom the equipment or property is or is to
be used; and except that with respect to fractional undivided interests
in oil, gas, or other mineral rights, the term "issuer" means the owner
of any such right or of any interest in such right (whether whole or
fractional) who creates fractional interests therein for the purpose of
public offering.2
(5) The term "Commission " means the Federal Trade Commis-
sion.*
(6) The term "Territory" means Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico,
the Philippine Islands, Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands, and the
insular possessions of the United States.
(7) The term "interstate commerce" means trade or commerce
in securities or any transportation or communication relating thereto
a"(4) The term 'issuer' means every person who issues or proposes to issue any
security or who guarantees a security cither as to principal or income; except that with
respect to certificates of deposit, voting-trust certificates, or collateral-trust certificates,
or with respect to certificates of interest or shares in an unincorporated investment
trust not having a board of directors (or persons performing similar functions) or of the
fixed, restricted management, or unlt type, the term 'issuer' means the person or persons
performing the acts and assuming the duties of depositor or manager pursuant to the
provisions of the trust or other agreement or instrument under which such securities
are issued; and except that with respect to equipment-trust certificates or like securities,
the term 'issuer'means the person by whom the equipment or property is or is to be
used."
*See Secs. 27 and 28. infra, being Sections 210 and 211, Title II of Securities Ex.
change Act of 1934, providing for transfer to "Securities and Exchange Commission"
of all powers, duties, and functions of the Federal Trade Commission.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
3
among the several States or between the District of Columbia or any
Territory of the United States and any State or other Territory, or
between any foreign country and any State, Territory, or the District
of Columbia, or within the District of Columbia.
(8) The term " registration statement " means the statement pro-
vided for in section 6, and includes any amendment thereto and any
report, document, or memorandum accompanying such statement or
incorporated therein by reference.
(9) The term " write " or " written" shall include printed, litho-
graphed, or any means of graphic communication.
(10) The term "prospectus" means any prospectus, notice, circular,
advertisement, letter, or communication, written or by radio, which offers
any security for sale; except that (a) a communication shall not be
deemed a prospectus if it is proved that prior to or at the same time
with such communication a written prospeetus meeting the requirements
of Section 10 was sent or given to the person to whom the communication
was made, by the person making such communication or his principal,
and (b) a notice, circular, advertisement, letter, or communication in
respect of a security shall not be deemed to be a prospectus if it states
from whom a written prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10
may be obtained and, in addition, does no more than identify the security,
state the price thereof, and state by whom orders will be executed.*
(11) The term "underwriter" means any person who has pur-
chased from an issuer with a view to, or sells for an issuer in con-
nection with, the distribution of any security, or participates or has
a direct or indirect participation in any such undertaking, or par-
ticipates or has a participation in the direct or indirect underwrit-
ing of any such undertaking; but such term shall not include a per-
son whose interest is limited to a commission from an underwriter
or dealer not in excess of the usual and customary distributors' or
sellers' commission. As used in this paragraph the term "issuer"
shall include, in addition to an issuer, any person directly or indi-
rectly controlling or controlled by the issuer, or any person under
direct or indirect common control with the issuer.
(12) The term " dealer" means any person who engages either for
all or part of his t me, directly or indirectly, as agent, broker, or
principal, in the business of offering, buying, selling, or otherwise
dealing or trading in securities issued by another person.
EXEMPTED SECURITIES
Sec. 3. (a) Except as hereinafter expressly provided, the provi-
sions of this title shall not apply to any of the following classes of
securities:
(1) Any security which, prior to or within sixty days after the
enactment of this title, has been sold or disposed of by the issuer or
bona fide offered to the public, but this exemption shall not apply to
a"(10) The term 'prospectus' means any prospectus, notice, circular, advertisement,
letter, or communication, written or by radio, which offers any security for sale; except
that (a) a communication shall not be deemed a prospectus if it is proved that prior to
such communication a written prospectus meetingothe requirements of section 10 was
recelved. by the person to whom the communication was made, from the person making
such communication or his principal, and (b) a notice, circular, advertisement, letter, or
communication in respect of a security shall not be deemed to be a prospectus if it states
from whom a written prospectus meeting the reguirements of sectlon 10 may be obtained
and, in addition, does no mrore than ideutify the security, state the price thereof, and
state by whom orders will be executed."

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
4
any new offering of any such security by an issuer or underwriter
subsequent to such sixty days;
(2) Any security issued or guaranteed by the United States or any
Territory thereof, or by the District of Columbia, or by any State of the
United States, or by any political subdivision of a State or Territory, or
by any public instrumentality of one or more States or Territories, or by
any person controlled or supervised by and acting as an instrumentality
of the Government of the United States pursuant to authority granted by
the Congress of the United States, or any certificate of deposit for any of
the foregoing, or any security issued or guaranteed by any national bank,
or by any banking institution organized under the laws of any State or
Territory or the District of Columbia, the business of which is sub-
stantially confined to banking and is supervised by the State or Territorial
banking oommission or similar official; or any security issued by or rep-
resenting an interest in or a direot obligation of a Federal Reserve Bank;
(8) Any note, draft, bill of exchange, or bankers' acceptance
which arises out of a current transaction or the proceeds of which
have been or are to be used for current transactions, and which has
a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding nine months,
exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of
which is likewise limited;
(4) Any security issued by a person & organized and operated ex-
clusively for religious, educational, benevolent, fraternal, charitable,
or reformatory purposes and not for pecuniary profit, and no part
of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any person,
private stockholder, or individual;
(5) Any security issued by a building and loan association, home-
stead association, savings and loan association, or similar institution,
substantially all the business of which is confined to the making of
loans to members (but the foregoing exemption shall not apply with
respect to any such security where the issuer takes from the total
amount paid or deposited by the purchaser, by way of any fee, cash
value or other device whatsoever, either upon termination of the
investment at maturity or before maturity, an aggregate amount in
excess of 8 per centum of the face value of such security), or any
security issued by a farmers' cooperative association as defined in
paragraphs (12), (13), and (14) of section 103 of the Revenue Act
of 1932;
(6) Any security issued by a common or contract carrier, the issu
ance of which is subject to the provisions of section 20a of the
Interstate Commerce Act, as amended;
(7) Certificates issued by a receiver or by a trustee in bankruptcy,
with the approval of the court;
(8) Any insurance or endowment policy or annuity contract or
optional annuity contract, issued by a corporation subject to the
4"(2) Any security issued or guaranteed by the United States or any Territory thereof
or by the District of Columbla, or by any State of the United States, or by any political
subdivision of a State or Territory, or by any public Instrumentality of one or more
States or Territories exercising an essentie) governmental function, or by any corporation
created and controlled or supervised by and acting as an instrumentality of the Govern-
ment of the United States purauant to authority granted by the Congress of the United
States, or by any national bank, or by any banking institution organized under the laws
of any State or Territory, the business of which is substantially confined to bapking and
is supervised by the State or teritorial banking commission or similar official; or any
security issued by or representing an interest in or a direct obligation of a Federal
reserve bank;
T"Corporation."
The words in italics are an amendment to Section 3 (a) (6) of the Securities Act of
1938, as provided in Section 214 of the "Motor Carrier Act of 1935", approved August 9.
1935.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
5
supervision of the insurance commissioner, bank commissioner, or
any agency or officer performing like functions, of any State or
Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia;
(9) Any security exchanged by the issuer with its existing security
holders exclusively where no commission or other remuneration is paid or
given directly or indirectly for soliciting such exchange;
(10) Any security which is issued in exchange for one or more bona
fide outstanding securities, claims or property interests, or partly in such
exchange and partly for cash, where the terms and conditions of such
issuance and exchange are approved, after a hearing upon the fairness
of such terms and conditions at which all persons to whom it is proposed
to issue securities in such exchange shall have the right to appear, by
any court, or by any official or agency of the United States, or by any
State or Territorial banking or insurance commission or other govern-
mental authority expressly authorized by law to grant such approval;
(11) Any security which is a part of an issue sold only to persons
resident within a single State or Territory, where the issuer of auch
security is a person resident and doing business within, or, if a cor-
poration, incorporated by and doing business within, such State or
Territory.
(b) The Commission may from time to time by its rules and regu-
lations, and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed
therein, add any class of securities to the securities exempted as pro-
vided in this section, if it finds that the enforcement of this title with
respect to such securities is not necessary in the public interest and
for the protection of investors by reason of the small amount in-
volved or the limited character of the public offering; but no issue
of securities shall be exempted under this subsection where the aggre-
gate amount at which such issue is offered to the public exceeds
$100,000.
EXEMPTED TRANSACTIONS
Sec. 4. The provisions of section 5 shall not apply to any of the
following transactions:
(1) Transactions by any person other than an issuer, underwriter, or
dealer; transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering; or
transactions by a dealer (including an underwriter no longer acting as
an underwriter in respect of the security involved in such transaction),
except transactions within one year after the first date upon which the
security was bona fide offered to the public by the issuer or by or through
an underwriter (excluding in the computation of such year any time
during which a stop order issued under section 8 is in effect as to
the security), and except transactions as to securities constituting the
The first clause of the following former Sec. 4 (3) bas been replaced by Sec. 3 (a) (9)
and the second clause by Sec. 3 (a) (10): "(3) The lssuance of a security of a person
exchanged by It with its existing security holders exclusively, where no commissfon or
other remuneratlon is paid or given directly or Indirectly in connection with such ex.
change; or the issuance of securities to the existing security holders or other existing
creditors of a corporation in the process of a bona fide reorganization of such corpora
tion under the supervislon of any court, elther in exchange for the securitles of such
security holders or claims of such creditors or partly for cash and partly in exchange
for the securities or claims of such security holders or creditors."
7 The following former Sec. 5 (c) has been supplanted by Sec. 3 (a) (11): "(c) The
provisions of this section relating to the use of the malls shall not apply to the sale of
any security where the issue of which it is a part is sold only to persons resident within
a single State or Territory, where the issuer of such securities is a person resident and
doing business within, or, if a corporation, incorporated by and doing business withfn.
such State or Territory."

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
6
whole or a part of an unsold allotment to or subscription by such dealer
as a participant in the distribution of such securities by the issuer or by
or through an underwriter.®
(2) Brokers' transactions, executed upon customers' orders on any
exchange or in the open or counter market, but not the solicitation
of such orders.
PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO INTERSTATE COMMERCE AND THE MAILS
Src. 5. (a) Unless a registration statement is in effect as to a
security, it shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly—
(1) to make use of any means or instruments of transporta-
tion or communication in interstate commerce or of the mails
to sell or offer to buy such security through the use or medium
of any prospectus or otherwise; or
(2) to carry or cause to be carried through the mails or in
interstate commerce, by any means or instrunients of transporta-
tion, any such security for the purpose of sale or for delivery
after sale.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly—
(1) to make use of any means or instruments of transportation
or communication in interstate commerce or of the mails to
carry or transmit any prospectus relating to any security regis-
tered under this title, unless such prospectus meets the require-
ments of section 10; or
(2) to carry or to cause to be carried through the mails or in
interstate commerce any such security for the purpose of sale or
for delivery after sale, unless accompanied or preceded by a
prospectus that meets the requirements of section 10.
REGISTRATION OF SECURITTES AND SIGNING OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT
Sec. 6. (a) Any security may be registered with the Commission
under the terms and conditions hereinafter provided, by filing a regis-
tration statement in triplicate, at least one of which shall be signed by
each issuer, its principal executive officer or officers, its principal
financial officer, its comptroller or principal accounting officer, and
the majority of its board of directors or persons performing similar
functions (or, if there is no board of directors or persons performing
similar functions, by the majority of the persons or board having the
power of management of the issuer), and in case the issuer is a
foreign or Territorial person by its duly authorized representative in
the United States; except that when such registration statement
relates to a security issued by a foreign government, or political sub-
divisien thereof, it need be signed only by the underwriter of such
security. Signatures of all such persons when written on the said
registration statements shall be presumed to have been so written by
"(1) Transactions by any person other than an issuer, underwriter, or dealer; trans-
actiors by an Issuer not with or through an underwriter and not involving any public
offering; or transactions by a dealer (including an underwriter no longer acting as an
underwriter in respect of the security involved in such transaction). except transactions
within one year after the last date upon which the security was bona fide offered to
the public by the issuer or by or through an underwriter (excluding in the computation
of such year any time during which a stop order issued under section 8 is in effect as to
the security), and except transactions as to securities constituting the whole or a part
of an unsold allotment to or subscription by such dealer as a participant in the distri
bution of such securitles by the issuer or by or through an underwriter."

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
7
authority of the person whose signature is so affixed and the burden
of proof, in the event such authority shall be denied, shall be upon
the party denying the same. The affixing of any signature without
the authority of the purported signer shall constitute a violation of
this title. A registration statement shall be deemed effective only as
to the securities specified therein as proposed to be offered.
(b) At the time of filing a registration statement the applicant
shall pay to the Commission a fee of one one-hundredth of 1 per
centum of the maximum aggregate price at which such securities are
proposed to be offered, but in no case shall fee be less than $25.
(c) The filing with the Commission of a registration statement, or
of an amendment to a registration statement, shall be deemed to have
taken place upon the receipt thereof, but the filing of a registration
statement shall not be deenied to have taken place unless it is accom-
panied by a United States postal money order or a certified bank
check or cash for the amount of the fee required under subsection (b).
(d) The information contained in or filed with any registration
statement shall be made available to the public under such regulations
as the Commission may prescribe, and copies thereof, photostatic or
otherwise, shall be furnished to every applicant at such reasonable
charge as the Commission may prescribe.
(e) No registration statement may be filed within the first forty
days following the enactment of this Act.
INFORMATION REQUIRED IN REGISTRATION STATEMENT
Sec. 7. The registration statement, when relating to a security
other than a security issued by a foreign government, or political
subdivision thereof, shall contain the information, and be accom-
panied by the documents, specified in Schedule A, and when relating
to a security issued by a foreign government, or political subdivision
thereof, shall contain the infornmation, and be accompanied by the
documents. specified in Schedule B: except that the Commission
may by rules or regulations provide that any such information or
document need not be included in respect of any class of issuers
or securities if it finds that the requirement of such information or
document is inapplicable to such class and that disclosure fully
adequate for the protection of investors is otherwise required to be
included within the registration statement. If any accountant,
engineer, or appraiser, or any person whose profession gives
authority to a statement made by him, is named as having prepared
or certified any part of the registration statement, or is named as
having prepared or certified a report or valuation for use in con-
nection with the registration statement, the written consent of such
person shall be filed with the registration statement. If any such
person is named as having prepared or certified a report or vafuation
(other than a public official document or statement) which is used
in connection with the registration statement, but is not named as
having prepared or certified such report or valuation for use in
connection with the registration statement, the written consent of
such person shall be filed with the registration statement unless the
Commission dispenses with such filing as impracticable or as involv-
ing undue b ardship on the person filing the registration statement.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 1.00)
8
Any such registration statement shall contain such other informa-
tion, and be accompanied by such other documents, as the Com-
mission may by rules or regulations require as being necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
TAKING EFFECT OF REGISTRATION STATEMENTS AND AMENDMENTS
THERETO
Sec. 8 (a) The effective date of a registration statement shall be
the twentieth day after the filing thereof, except as hereinafter
provided, and except that in case of securities of any foreign public
authority, which has continued the full service of its obligations in
the United States, the proceeds of which are to be devoted to the
refunding of obligations payable in the United States, the registra-
tion statement shall become effective seven days after the filing
thereof. If any amendment to any such statement is filed prior
to the effective date of such statement, the registration statement
shall be deemed to have been filed when such amendment was filed;
except that an amendment filed with the consent of the Commission.
prior to the effective date of the registration statement, or filed
pursuant to an order of the Commission, shall be treated as a part
of the registration statement.
(b) If it appears to the Commission that a registration statement
is on its face incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, the
Commission may, after notice by personal service or the sending of
confirmed telegraphic notice not later than ten days after the filing
of the registration statement, and opportunity for hearing (at a
time fixed by the Commission) within ten days after such notice by
persor.al service or the sending of such telegraphic notice, issue an
order prior to the effective date of registration refusing to permit
such statement to become effective until it has been amended in
accordance with such order. When such statement has been
amended in accordance with such order the Commission shall so
declare and the registration shall become effective at the time
provided in subsection (a) or upon the date of such declaration,
whichever date is the later.
(c) An amendment filed after the effective date of the registration
statement, if such amendment, upon its face, appears to the Com-
mission not to be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect,
shall become effective on such date as the Commission may deter-
mine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection
of investors.
(d) If it appears to the Commission at any time that the registra-
tion statement includes any untrue statement of a material fact or
omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or
necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, the Com-
mission may, after notice by personal service or the sending of
confirmed telegraphic notice, and after opportunity for hearing (at
a time fixed by the Commission) within fifteen days after such
notice by personal service or the sending of such telegraphic notice,
issue a stop order suspending the e'fectiveness of the registration
statement.When such statement has been amended in accordance
with such stop order the Commission shall so declare and thereupon
the stop order shall cease to be effective.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
9
(e) The Commission is hereby empowered to make an examina-
tion in any case in order to determine whether a stop order should
issue under subsection (d). In making such examination the Com-
mission or any officer or officers designated by it shall have access
to and may demand the production of any books and papers of, and
may administer oaths and affirmations to and examine, the issuer,
underwriter, or any other person, in respect of any matter relevant
to the examination, and may, in its discretion, require the production
of a balance sheet exhibiting the assets and liabilities of the issuer,
or its income statement, or both, to be certified to by a public or
certified accountant approved by the Commission. If the issuer
or underwriter shall fail to cooperate, or shall obstruct or refuse
to permit the making of an examination, such conduct shall be
proper ground for the issuance of a stop order.
(f) Any notice required under this section shall be sent to or
served on the issuer, or, in case of a foreign government or political
subdivision thereof, to or on the underwriter, or, in the case of a
foreign or Territorial person, to or on its duly authorized representa-
tive in the United States named in the registration statement. prop-
erly directed in each case of telegraphic notice to the address given
in such statement.
COURT REVIEW OF ORDERS
Sec. 9. (a) Any person aggrieved by an order of the Comraission
may obtain a review of such order in the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the United States, within any circuit wherein such person resides
or has his principal place of business, or in the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, by filing in such court, within sixty days
after the entry of such order, a written petition praying that the
order of the Commission be modified or be set aside in whole or in
part. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith served upon the
Comnission, and thereupon the Commission shall certify and file in
the court a transcript of the record upon which the order complained
of was entered. No objection to the order of the Commission shall
be considered by the court unless such objection shall have been urged
before the Commission. The finding of the Commission as to the
facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive. If either party
shall apply to the court for leave to adduce additional evidence, and
shall show to the satisfaction of the court that such additional evi-
dence is material and that there were reasonable grounds for failure
to adduce such evidence in the hearings before the Commission, the
court may order such additional evidence to be taken before the
Conmission and to be adduced upon the hearing in such manner
and upon such terms and conditions as to the court may seem proper.
The Commission may modify its findings as to the facts. by reason
of the additional evidence so taken, and it shall file such modified
or new findings, which, if supported by evidence, shall be conclu-
sive. and its recommendation, if any, for the modification or setting
aside of the original order. The jurisdiction of the court shall be
exclusive and its judgment and decree, affirming, modifying, or set-
ting aside, in whole or in part, any order of the Commission, shall
be final, subject to review by the Supreme Court of the Únited
States upon certiorari or certification as provided in sections 239 and
158345°—39—2

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
10
240 of the Judicial Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 28, secs. 346
and 347).
(b) The commencement of proceedings under subsection (a) shall
not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the
Commission's order.
INFORMATION REQUIRED IN PROSPECTUS
SEc. 10. (a) A prospectus—
(1) when relating to a security other than a security issued
by a foreign government or political subdivision thereof, shall
contain the same statements made in the registration statement.
but it need not include the documents referred to in paragraphs
(28) to (32), inclusive, of Schedule A;
(2) when relating to a security issued by a foreign govern-
ment or political subdivision thereof shall contain the same
statements made in the registration statement, but it need not
include the documents referred to in paragraphs (13) and (14)
of Schedule B.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a)—
(1) When a prospectus is used more than thirteen months after
the effective date of the registration statement, the information in
the statements contained therein shali be as of a date not more than
twelve months prior to such use, so far as such information is known
to the user of such prospectus or can be furnished by such user with-
out unreasonable effort or expense.º
(2) there may be omitted from any prospectus any of the
statements required under such subsection (a) which the Com-
mission may by rules or regulations designate as not being neces-
sary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
of investors.
(3) any prospectus shall contain such other information as the
Commission may by rules or regulations require as being neces-
sary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
of investors.
(4) in the exercise of its powers under paragraphs (2) and
(3) of this subsection, the Commission shall have authority to
classify prospectuses according to the nature and circumstances
of their use, and, by rules and regulations and subject to such
terms and conditions as it shall specify therein, to prescribe as
to each class the forn and contents which it may find appropri-
ate to such use and consistent with the public interest and the
protection of investors.
(c) The statements or information required to be included in a
prospectus by or under authority of subsection (a) or (b), when
written. shall be placed in a conspicuous part of the prospectus in
type as large as that used generally in the body of the prospectus.
(d) In any case where a prospectus consists of a radio broadcast.
copies thereof shall be filed with the Commission under such rules
and regulations as it shall prescribe. The Commission may by
•"(1) when a prospectus is used more than thirteen months after the effective date of
the registration statement, the information in the statements coutained therein shall be
s of a date not more than twelve months prior to such use."

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
11
rules and regulations require the filing with it of forms and prospec-
tuses used in connection with the sale of securities registered under
this title.
CIVIL LIABILITIES ON ACCOUNT OF FALSE REGISTRATION STATEMENT
Sec. 11. (a) In case any part of the registration statement, when
such part became effective, contained an untrue statement of a
material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
any person acquiring such security (unless it is proved that at the
time of such acquisition he knew of such untruth or omission) may,
either at law or in equity, in any court of competent jurisdiction,
sue
(1) every person who signed the registration statement;
(2) every person who was a director of (or person perform-
ing similar functions) or partner in, the issuer at the time of the
filing of the part of the registration statement with respect to
which his liability is asserted;
(3) every person who, with his consent, is named in the
registration statement as being or about to become a director,
person performing similar functions, or partner;
(4) every accountant, engineer, or appraiser, or any person
whose profession gives authority to a statement made by him,
who has with his consent been named as having prepared or
certified any part of the registration statement, or as having
prepared or certified any report or valuation which is used in
connection with the registration statement, with respect to the
statement in such registration statement, report, or valuation,
which purports to have been prepared or certified by him.
(5) every underwriter with respect to such security.
If such person acquired the security after the issuer has made
generally available to its security holders an earning statement cov-
ering a period of at least twelve months beginning after the effec-
tive date of the registration statement, then the right of recovery
under this subsection shall be conditioned on proof that such person
acquired the security relying upon such untrue statement in the
registration statement or relying upon the registration statement
and not knowing of such omission, but such reliance may be estab-
lished without proof of the reading of the registration statement by
such person.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) no person,
other than the issuer, shall be liable as provided therein who shall
sustain the burden of proof—
(1) that before the effective date of the part of the registra-
tion statement with respect to which his liability is asserted (A)
he had resigned from or had taken such steps as are permitted by
law to resign from, or cease or refused to act in, every office,
capacity, or relationship in which he was described in the regis-
tration statement as acting or agreeing to act, and (B) he had
advised the Commission and the issuer in writing that he had
taken such action and that he would not be responsible for such
part of the registration statement; or

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
12
(2) that if such part of the registration statement became
effective without his knowledge, upon becoming aware of such
fact he forthwith acted and advised the Commission, in accord-
ance with paragraph (1), and, in addition, gave reasonable
public notice that such part of the registration statement had
become effective without his knowledge; or
(3) that (A) as regards any part of the registration state-
ment not purporting to be made on the authority of an expert.
and not purporting to be a copy of or extract from a report
or valuation of an expert, and not purporting to be made on
the authority of a public official document or statement, he had,
after reasonable investigation, reasonable ground to believe and
did believe, at the time such part of the registration statement
became effective, that the statements therein were true and that
there was no omission to state a material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary to make the statements therein not mis-
leading; and (B) as regards any part of the registration state-
ment purporting to be made upon his authority as an expert
or purporting to be a copy of or extract from a report or
valuation of himself as an expert, (i) he had, after reasonable
investigation, reasonable ground to believe and did believe, at
the time such part of the registration statement became effective,
that the statements therein were true and that there was no
omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
necessary to make the statements tizerein not misleading. or
(ii) such part of the registration statement did not fairly rep-
resent his statement as an expert or was not a fair copy of
or extract from his report or valuation as an expert: and
(C) as regards any part of the registration statement purporting
to be made on the authority of an expert (other than himself) or
purporting to be a copy of or extract from a report or valuation of
an expert (other than himself), he had no reasonable ground to
believe and did not believe, at the time such part of the registration
statement became effective, that the statements therein were untrue
or that there was an omission to state a material fact required to be
stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not mis-
leading, or that such part of the registration statement did not fairly
represent the statement of the expert or was not a fair copy of or
extract from the report or valuation of the expert; and (D) as
regards any part of the registration statement purporting to be a
statement made by an official person or purporting to be a copy of
or extract from a public official document, he had no reasonable
ground to believe and did not believe, at the time such part of the
registration statement became effective, that the statements therein
were untrue, or that there was an omission to state a material fact
required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
therein not misleading, or that such part of the registration state-
ment did not fairly represent the statement made by the official
person or was not a fair copy of or extract from the public official
document.10
"(C) as regards any part of the registration statement purporting to be made on the
authority of an expert (other than himself) or purporting to be a copy of or extract from
a report or valuation of an expert (other than himself), he had reasonable ground to
belleve and did belleve, at the time such part of the registration statement became

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
18
(o) In determining, for the purpose of paragraph (3) of subsection
(b) of this section, what constitutes reasonable investigation and reason-
able ground for belief, the standard of reasonableness shall be that
required of a prudent man in the management of his own property.1
(d) If any person becomes an underwriter with respect to the
security after the part of the registration statement with respect to
which his liability is asserted has become effective, then for the pur-
poses of paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this section such part
of the registration statement shall be considered as having become
effective with respect to such person as of the time when he became
an underwriter.
(e) The suit authorized under subsection (a) may be to recover such
damages as shall represent the difference between the amount paid for
the security (not exceeding the price at which the security was offered to
the public) and (1) the value thereof as of the time such suit was brought,
or (2) the price at which such security shal: have been disposed of in the
market before suit, or (3) the price at which such security shall have
been disposed of after suit but before judgment if such damages shall be
less than the damages representing the difference between the amount
paid for the security (not exceeding the price at which the security was
offered to the public) and the value thereof as of the time such suit was
brought: Provided, that if the defendant proves that any portion or all
of such damages represents other than the depreciation in value of such
security resulting from such part of the registration statement, with
respect to which his liability is asserted, not being true or omitting to
state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make
the statements therein not misleading, such portion of or all such damages
shall not be recoverable. In no event shall any underwriter (unless such
underwriter shall have knowingly received from the issuer for acting as
an underwriter some benefit, directly or indirectly, in which all other
underwriters similarly situated did not share in proportion to their re-
spective interests in the underwriting) be liable in any suit or as a con-
sequence of suits authorized under subsection (a) for damages in excess
of the total price at which the securities underwritten by him and dis-
tributed to the public were offered to the public. In any suit under
this or any other section of this title the court may, in its discretion,
require an undertaking for the payment of the costs of such suit, includ-
ing reasonable attorney's fees, and if judgment shall be rendered against
a party litigant, upon the motion of the other party litigant, such costs
may be assessed in favor of such party litigant (whether or not such un-
dertaking has been required) if the court believes the suit or the defense
to have been without merit, in an amount sufficient to reimburse him for
the reasonable expenses incurred by him, in connection with such suit,
effective. that the statements therein were true and that there was no omission to state
a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
therein not misleading, and that such part of the registratlon statement fairly repre-
sented the statement of the expert or was a fair copy of or extract from the report or
valuation of the expert; and (i)) as regards any part of the registration statement pur-
porting to be a statement made by an oflielal person or purporting to be a copy of or
extract from a publie offcial document, he had reasonable ground to belleve and did
believe. at the time such part of the registration statement became effective. that the
statemrents therein were true, and that there was no omisslon to state a material fact
required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
and that such part of the registration statement fairly represented the statement made
by the official person or was a fair copy of or extract from the public official document."
i "(c) in determining for the purpose of paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this
section, what constitutes reasonable investigation and reasonable gound for bellef. the
standard of reasonableness shall be that required of a person occupying a fiduclary
relatlonship

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
14
such costs to be taxed in the manner usually provided for taxing of costs
in the court in which the suit was heard.12
(f) All or any one or more of the persons specified in subsection
(a) shall be jointly and severally liable, and every person who be-
comes liable to make any payment under this section may recover
contribution as in cases of contract from any person who, if sued
separately, would have been liable to make the same payment, unless
the person who has become liable was, and the other was not, guilty
of fraudulent misrepresentation.
(g) In no case shall the amount recoverable under this section
exceed the price at which the security was offered to the public.
CIVIL LIABILITTES ARISING IN CONNECTION WITII PROSPECTUSES AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Sec. 12. Any person who—
(1) sells a security in violation of section 5, or
(2) sel's a security (whether or not exempted by the provi-
sions of section 3, other than paragraph (2) of subsection
(a) thereof), by the use of any means or instruments of trans-
portation or communication in interstate commerce or of the
mails. by means of a prospectus or oral communication, which
includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state
a material fact necessary in order to make the statements in the
light of the circumstanees under which they were made, not
misleading (the purchaser not knowing of such untruth or omis-
sion), and who shall not sustain the burden of proof that he did
not know, and in the exercise of reasonable care could not have
known. of such untruth or omission.
shall be liable to the person purchasing such security from him, who
may sue either at law or in equity in any court of competent juris-
diction, to recover the consideration paid for such security with
interest thereon, less the amount of any income received thereon,
upon the tender of such security, or for damages if he no longer owns
the security.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS
Sec. 13. No action shall be maintained to enforce any liability created
under section 11 or section 12 (2) unless brought within one year after
the discovery of the untrue statement or the omission, or after such dis-
covery should have been made by the exercise of reasonable diligence, or,
if the action is to enforce a liability created under section 12 (1), unless
brought within one year after the violation upon which it is based. In
no event shall,any such action be brought to enforce a liability created
under section 11 or section 12 (1) more than three years after the
security was bona fide offered to the public, or under section 12 (2)
more than three years after the sale.13
2 "(e) The suit authorized under subsection (a) may be elther (1) to recover the
consideration pald for such security with interest thereon. less the amount of any
income recelved thereon upon the tender of such security, or (2) for damages if tie
person suing no longer owns the security."
is " Sec. 13. No action shall be maintained to enforce any liability create.! under section
11 or section 12 (2) unless brought within two years after the discovery of the untrue
statement or the omission. or after such discovery should have been made by the exereise
of reasonable diligence, or. if the action is to enforce a labtlity created under section
12 (1). unless brought within two years after the violation upon which it is based. In
no event shall any such action be brought to enforce a liability created under section
11 or section 12 (1) more than ten years after the security was bona fide offered to
the public"

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
15
CONTRARY STIPULATIONS VOID
Seo. 14. Any condition, stipulation, or provision binding any per-
son acquiring any security to waive compliance with any provision
of this title or of the rules and regulations of the Commission shall
be void.
LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS
Sec. 15. Every person who, by or through stock ownership, agency,
or otherwise, or who, pursuant to or in connection with an agree-
ment or understanding with one or more other persons by or through
stock ownership, agency, or otherwise, controls any person liable
under section 11 or 12, shall also be liable jointly and severally with
and to the same extent as such controlled person to any person to
whom such controlled person is liable, unless the controlling person
had no knowledge of or reasonable grounds to believe in the existence of
the facts by reason of which the liability of the controlled person is
alleged to exist.
ADDITIONAL REMEDIES
Seo. 16. The rights and remedies provided by this title shall be in
addition to any and all other rights and remedies that may exist at
law or in equity.
FRAUDULENT INTERSTATE TRANSACTIONS
SEc. 17. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person in the sale of any
securities by the use of any means or instruiments of transportation
or communication in interstate commerce or by the use of the mails,
directly or indirectly—
(1) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, or
(2) to obtain money or property by means of any untrue
statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material
fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light
of the circumstances under which they were made, not mislead-
ing, or
(3) to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of busi-
ness which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon
the purchaser.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person, by the use of any means
or instruments of transportation or communication in interstate
commerce or by the use of the mails, to publish, give publicity to,
or circulate any notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper, article,
letter, investment service, or comnmunication which, though not
purporting to offer a security for sale, describes such security for a
consideration received or to be received, directly or indirectly, from
an issuer, underwriter, or dealer, without fully disclosing the receipt,
whether past or prospective, of such consideration and the amount
thereof.
(c) The exemptions provided in section 3 shall not apply to the
provisions of this section.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
16
STATE CONTROL OF SECURITIES
Smo. 18. Nothing in this title shall affect the jurisdiction of the
securities commission (or any agency or office performing like func-
tions) of any State or Territory of the United States, or the District
of Columbia, over any security or any person.
SPECIAL POWERS OF COMMISSION
Seo. 19. (a) The Commission shall have authority from time to
time to make, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this title, including rules
and regulations governing registration statements and prospectuses
for various classes of securities and issuers, and defining accounting,
technical, and trade terms used in this title. Among other things, the
Commission shall have authority, for the purposes of this title, to pre-
scribe the form or forms in which required information shall be set
forth, the items or details to be shown in the balance sheet and earn-
ing statement, and the methods to be followed in the preparation of
accounts, in the appraisal or valuation of assets and liabilities, in the
determination of depreciation and depletion, in the differentiation
of recurring and nonrecurring income, in the differentiation of invest-
ment and operating income, and in the preparation, where the Com-
mission deems it necessary or desirable, of consolidated balance sheets
or income accounts of any person directly or indirectly controlling
or controlled by the issuer, or any person under direct or indirect
common control with the issuer; but insofar as they relate to any
common carrier subject to the provisions of section 20 of the Inter-
state Commerce Act, as amended, the rules and regulations of the
Commission with respect to accounts shall not be inconsistent with
the requirements imposed by the Interstate Commerce Commission
under authority of such section 20. The rules and regulations of the
Commission shall be effective upon publication in the manner which
the Commission shall prescribe. No provision of this title imposing
any liability shall apply to any act done or omitted in good faith in
conformity with any rule or regulation of the Commission, notwithstand-
ing that such rule or regulation may, after such act or omission, be
amended or rescinded or be determined by judicial or other authority to
be invalid for any reason.
(b) For the purpose of all investigations which, in the opinion of
the Commission, are necessary and proper for the enforcement of
this title, any member of the Commission or any officer or officers
designated by it are empowered to administer oaths and affirmations.
subpena witnesses, take evidence, and require the production of any
books, papers, or other documents which the Commission deems tele-
vant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of witnesses and
the production of such documentary evidence may be required from
any place in the United States or any Territory at any designated
place of hearing.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
17
INJUNOTIONS AND PROSECUTION OF OFFENSES
SEC. 20. (a) Whenever it shall appear to the Commission, either
upon complaint or otherwise, that the provisions of this title, or of
any rule or regulation prescribed under authority thereof, have been
or are about to be violated, it may, in its discretion, either require or
permit such person to file with it a statement in writing, under oath,
or otherwise, as to all the facts and circumstances concerning the
subject matter which it believes to be in the public interest to
investigate, and may investigate such facts.
(b) Whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person
is engaged or about to engage in any acts or practices which consti-
tute or will constitute a violation of the provisions of this title, or of
any rule or regulation prescribed under authority thereof, it may in
its discretion, bring an action in any district court of the United
States, United States court of any Territory, or the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia to enjoin such acts or practices, and
upon a proper showing a permanent or temporary injunction or
restraining order shall be granted without bond. The Commission
may transmit such evidence as may be available concerning such
acts or practices to the Attorney General who may, in his discretion,
institute the necessary criminal proceedings under this title. Any
such criminal proceeding may be brought either in the district
wherein the transmittal of the prospectus or security complained of
hegins, or in the district wherein such prospectus or security is
received.
(c) Upon application of the Commission the district courts of the
United States, the United States courts of any Territory, and the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, shall also have juris-
diction to issue writs of mandamus commanding any person to com-
ply with the provisions of this title or any order of the Comnission
imade in pursuance thereof.
HEARINGS BY COMMISSION
Sec. 21. All hearings shall be public and may be held before the
Commission or an oflicer or officers of the Commission designated by
it, and appropriate records thereof shall be kept.
JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES AND SUITS
Seo. 22. (a) The district courts of the United States, the United
States courts of any Territory, and the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia shall have jurisdiction of offenses and violations under
this title and under the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Commission in respect thereto, and, concurrent with State and Ter-
ritorial courts, of all suits in equity and actions at law brought to
enforce any liability or duty created by this title. Any such suit or
action may be brought in the district wherein the defendant is found
or is an inhabitant or transacts business, or in the district where the
sale took place, if the defendant participated therein, and process in
such cases may be served in any other district of which the defendant
is an inhabitant or wherever the defendant may be found. Judg-

=== Page 28 === (confidence 1.00)
18
ments and decrees so rendered shall be subject to review as provided
in sections 128 and 240 of the Judicial Code, as amended (U.S.C.,
title 28, secs. 225 and 347). No case arising under this title and
brought in any State court of competent jurisdiction shall be re-
moved to any court of the United States. No costs shall be assessed
for or against the Commission in any proceeding under this title
brought by or against it in the Supreme Court or such other courts.
(b) In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpena issued to
any person, any of the said United States courts, within the juris-
diction of which said person guilty of contumacy or refusal to obey
is found or resides, upon application by the Commission may issue to
such person an order requiring such person to appear before the Com-
mission, or one of its examiners designated by it, there to produce
documentary evidence if so ordered, or there to give evidence touch-
ing the matter in question; and any failure to obey such order of
the court may be punished by said court as a contempt thereof.
(c) No person shall be excused from attending and testifying or
from producing books, papers, contracts, agreements, and other
documents before the Commission, or in obedience to the subpena
of the Commission or any member thereof or any officer designated
by it, or in any cause, or proceeding instituted by the Commission,
on the ground that the testimony or evidence, documentary or other-
wise, required of him, may tend to incriminate him or subject him
to a penalty or forfeiture; but no individual shall be prosecuted or
subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any trans-
action, matter, or thing coneerning which he is compelled, after
having claimed his privilege against self-incrimination, to testify
or produce evidence, docuinentary or otherwise, except that such
individual so testifying shall not be exempt from prosecution and
punishment for perjury committed in so testifying.
UNLAWFUL REPRESENTATIONS
Sec. 23. Neither the fact that the registration statement for a
security has been filed or is in effect nor the fact that a stop order is
not in effect with respect thereto shall be deemed a finding by the
Commission that the registration statement is true and accurate
on its face or that it does not contain an untrue statement of fact
or omit to state a material fact, or be held to mean that the Commis-
sion has in any way passed upon the merits of, or given approval
to, such security. It shall be unlawful to make, or cause to be made,
to any prospective purchaser any representation contrary to the
foregoing provisions of this section.
PENALTIES
Seo. 24. Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions
of this title, or the rules and regulations promulgated by the Com-
mission under authority thereof, or any person who willfully, in a
registration statement filed under this title, makes any untrue state-
ment of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required
to be stated therein or necessary to make the statenents therein
not misleading, shall upon conviction be fined not more than $5,000
or imprisoned no more than five years, or both.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
19
JURISDICTION OF OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENOIES OVER SECURITIES
Sec. 25. Nothing in this title shall relieve any person from sub-
mitting to the respective supervisory units of the Government of
the United States information, reports, or other documents that
are now or may hereafter be required by any provision of law.
SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS
SEc. 26. If any provision of this Act, or the application of such
provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, the
remainder of this Act, or the application of such provision to persons
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall
not be affected thereby.
Sec. 27. Upon the expiration of sixty days after the date upon which
a majority of the members of the securities and exchange commission
appointed under Section 4 of Title I of this act have qualified and taken
office, all powers. duties and functions of the Federal Trade Commission
under the Secutities Act of 1933 shall be transferred to such commis-
sion, together with all property, books, records and unexpended balances
of appropriations used by or available to the Federal Trade Commission
for carrying out its functions under the Securities Act of 1933. All
proceedings, hearings or investigations commenced or pending before the
Federal Trade Commssion arising under the Securities Act of 1933 shall
be continued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. All orders,
rules and regulations which have been issued by the Federal Trade
Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 and which are in effect shall
continue in effect until molified. superseded, revoked, or repealed. All
rights and interests accruing or to accrue under the Securities Act of
1933, or any provision of any regulation relating to, or out of action
taken by. the Federal Trade Commission under such act, shall be fol-
lowed in all respects and may be exercised and enforced.
Sec. 28. The commission is authorized and directed to make a study
and investigation of the work, activities, personnel and functions of pro-
tective and reorganization committees in connection with the reorganiza-
tion, readjustment, rehabilitation, liquidation, or consolidation of persons
and properties and to report the result of its studies and investigations
and its recommendations to the Congress on or before January 3, 1936.
SCIHEDULE A
(1) The name under which the issuer is doing or intends to do
business;
(2) the name of the State or other sovereign power under which
the issuer is organized;
(3) the location of the issuer's principal business office, and if the
issuer is a foreign or territorial person, the name and address of its
agent in the United States .uthorized to receive notice;
(4) the names and addresses of the directors or persons performing
similar functions, and the chief executive, financial and accounting
officers, chosen or to be chosen if the issuer be a corporation, associa-
14 Secs. 27 and 28 are Secs. 210 and 211. Title II, of Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
approved June 6, 1934, effective July 1, 1934.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
20
tion, trust, or other entity; of all partners, if the issuer be a partner-
ship; and of the issuer, if the issuer be an individual; and of the
promoters in the case of a business to be formed, or formed within
two years prior to the filing of the registration statement;
(5) the names and addresses of the underwriters;
(6) the names and addresses of all persons, if any, owning of
record or beneficially, if known, more than 10 per centum of any
class of stock of the issuer, or more than 10 per centum in the ag-
gregate of the outstanding stock of the issuer as of a date within
twenty days prior to the filing of the registration statement;
(7) the amount of securities of the issuer held by any person
specified in paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) of this schedule, as of a
date within twenty days prior to the filing of the registration state-
ment, and, if possible, as of one year prior thereto, and the amount
of the securities, for which the registration statement is filed, to
which such persons have indicated their intention to subscribe;
(8) the general character of the business actually transacted or
to be transacted by the issuer;
(9) a statement of the capitalization of the issuer, including the
authorized and outstanding amounts of its capital stock and the pro-
portion thereof paid up, the number and classes of shares in which
such capital stock is divided, par value thereof, or if it has no par
value, the stated or assigned value thereof, a description of the
respective voting rights, preferences, conversion and exchange rights,
rights to dividends, profits, or capital of each class, with respect to
each other class, including the retirement and liquidation rights or
values thereof;
(10) a statement of the securities, if any, covered by options out-
standing or to be created in connection with the security to be
offered, together with the names and addresses of all persons. if
any, to be allotted more than 10 per centum in the aggregate of such
options;
(11) the amount of capital stock of each class issued or included
in the shares of stock to be offered;
(12) the amount of the funded debt outstanding and to be created
by the security to be offered, with a brief description of the date.
maturity, and character of such debt, rate of interest, character of
amortization provisions, and the security, if any, therefor. If sub-
stitution of any security is permissible, a summarized statement of
the conditions under which such substitution is permitted. If substi-
tution is permissible without notice, a specifie statement to that
effect;
(13) the specific purposes in detail and the approximate amounts
to be devoted to such purposes, so far as determinable, for which
the security to be offered is to supply funds, and if the funds are
to be raised in part from other sources, the amounts thereof and the
sources thereof, shall be stated;
(14) the remuneration, paid or estimated to be paid, by the issuer
or its predecessor, directly or indirectly, during the past year and
ensuing year to (a) the directors or persons performing similar fune-
tions, and (b) its officers and other persons, naming them wherever
such remuneration exceeded $25,000 during any such year;
(15) the estimated net proceeds to be derived from the security
to be offered;

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
21
(16) the price at which it is proposed that the security shall be
offered to the public or the method by which such price is computed
and any variation therefrom at which any portion of such security
is proposed to be offered to any persons or classes of persons, other
than the underwriters, naming them or specifying the class. A
variation in price may be proposed prior to the date of the public
offering of the security, but the Commission shall immediately be
notified of such variation;
(17) all commissions or discounts paid or to be paid, directly
or indirectly, by the issuer to the underwriters in respect of the sale
of the security to be offered. Commissions shall include all cash,
securities, contracts, or anything else of value, paid, to be set aside,
disposed of, or understandings with or for the benefit of any other
persons in which any underwriter is interested, made, in connec-
tion with the sale of such security. A commission paid or to be
paid in connection with the sale of such security by a person in which
the issuer has an interest or which is controlled or directed by, or
under common control with, the issuer shall be deemed to have been
paid by the issuer. Where any such commission is paid the amount
of such commission paid to each underwriter shall be stated;
(18) the amount or estimated amounts, itemized in reasonable
detail, of expenses, other than commissions specified in paragraph
(17) of this schedule, incurred or borne by or for the account of
the issuer in connection with the sale of the security to be offered
or properly chargeable thereto, including legal, engineering, cer-
tification, authentication, and other charges;
(19) the net proceeds derived from any security sold by the issuer
during the two years preceding the filing of the registration state-
ment, the price at which such security was offered to the public,
and the names of the principal underwriters of such security;
(20) any amount paid within two years preceding the filing of
the registration statement or intended to be paid to any promoter
and the consideration for any such payment;
(21) the names and addresses of the vendors and the purchase
price of any property, or good will, acquired or to be acquired, not
in the ordinary course of business, which is to be defrayed in whole
or in part from the proceeds of the security to be offered, the amount
of any commission payable to any person in connection with such
acquisition, and the name or names of such person or persons, to-
gether with any expense incurred or to be incurred in connection
with such acquisition, including the cost of borrowing money to
finance such acquisition;
(22) full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest, if
any, of every director, principal executive officer, and of every stock-
holder holding more than 10 per centum of any class of stock or
more than 10 per centum in the aggregate of the stock of the issuer,
in any property acquired, not in the ordinary course of business
of the issuer, within two years preceding the filing of the registra-
tion statement or proposed to be acquired at such date;
(23) the names and addresses of counsel who have passed on the
legality of the issue;
(24) dates of and parties to, and the general effect concisely
stated of every material contract made, not in the ordinary course

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
22
of business, which contract is to be executed in whole or in part at
or after the filing of the registration statement or which contract
has been made not more than two years before such filing. Any
management contract or contract providing for special bonuses or
profit-sharing arrangements, and every material patent or contract
for a material patent right, and every contract by or with a public
utility company or an affiliate thereof, providing for the giving or
receiving of technical or financial advice or service (if such contract
may involve a charge to any party thereto at a rate in excess of
$2,500 per year in cash or securities or anything else of value), shall
be deemed a material contract;
(25) a balance sheet as of a date not more than ninety days prior
to the date of the filing of the registration statement showing all of
the assets of the issuer, the nature and cost thereof, whenever deter-
minable, in such detail and in such forn as the Commission shall
prescribe (with intangible items segregated), including any loan in
excess of $20,000 to any officer, director, stockholder or person
directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by the issuer, or
person under direct or indirect common control with the issuer. All
the liabilities of the issuer in such detail and such form as the Com-
mission shall prescribe, including surplus of the issuer showing how
and from what sources such surplus was created, all as of a date not
more than ninety days prior to the filing of the registration state-
ment. If such statement be not certified by an independent public
or certified accountant, in addition to the balance sheet required to
be submitted under this schedule, a similar detailed balance slheet
of the assets and liabilities of the issuer, certified by an independent
public or certified accountant, of a date not more than one year prior
to the filing of the registration statement, shall be submitted;
(26) a profit and loss statement of the issuer showing earnings
and income, the nature and source thereof, and the expenses and
fixed charges in such detail and such form as the Commission shall
prescribe for the latest fiscal year for which such statement is avail-
able and for the two preceding fiscal years, year by year, or, if such
issuer has been in actual business for less than three years, then for
such time as the issuer has been in actual business, year by year. If
the date of the filing of the registration statement is more than six
months after the close of the last fiscal year, a statement from such
closing date to the latest practicable date. Such statement shall show
what the practice of the issuer has been during the three years or
lesser period as to the character of the charges, dividends or other
distributions made against its various surplus accounts, and as to
depreciation, depletion, and maintenance charges, in such detail and
form as the Commission shall prescribe, and if stock dividends or
avails from the sale of rights have been credited to income, they
shall be shown separately with a statement of the basis upon which
the credit is computed. Such statement shall also differentiate
between any recurring and nonrecurring income and between any
investment and operating income. Such statement shall be certified
by an independent public or certified accountant;
(27) if the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the security
to be issued is to be applied directly or indirectly to the purchase

=== Page 33 === (confidence 1.00)
23
of any business, a profit and loss statement of such business certified
by an independent public or certified accountant, meeting the re-
quirements of paragraph (26) of this schedule, for the three pre-
ceding fiscal years, together with a balance sheet, similarly certified,
of such business, meeting the requirements of paragraph (25) of
this schedule of a date not more than ninety days prior to the filing
of the registration statement or at the date such business was acquired
by the issuer if the business was acquired by the issuer more than
ninety days prior to the filing of the registration statement;
(28) a copy of any agreement or agreements (or if identic agree-
ments are used the forms thereof) made with any underwriter, in-
cluding all contracts and agreements referred to in paragraph (17)
of this schedule;
(29) a copy of the opinion or opinions of counsel in respect to the
legality of the issue, with a translation of such opinion, when neces-
sary, into the English language;
(30) a copy of all material contracts referred to in paragraph
(24) of this schedule, but no disclosure shall be required of any
portion of any such contract if the Commission determines that
disclosure of such portion would impair the value of the contract
and would not be necessary for the protection of the investors;
(31) unless previously filed and registered under the provisions
of this title, and brought up to date, (a) a copy of its articles of
incorporation, with all amendments thereof and of its existing by-
laws or instruments corresponding thereto, whatever the name, if
the issuer be a corporation; (b) copy of all instruments by which
the trust is created or declared, if the issuer is a trust; (c) a copy
of its articles of partnership or association and all other papers
pertaining to its organization, if the issuer is a partnership, unin-
corporated association, joint-stock company, or any other form of
organization; and
(32) a copy of the underlying agreements or indentures affecting
any stock, bonds, or debentures offered or to be offered.
În case of certificates of deposit, voting trust certificates, collateral
trust certificates, certificates of interest or shares in unincorporated
investment trusts, equipment trust certificates, interim or other re-
ceipts for certificates, and like securities, the Commission shall
establish rules and regulations requiring the submission of informa-
tion of a like character applicable to such cases, together with such
other information as it may deem appropriate and necessary regard-
ing the character, financial or otherwise, of the actual issuer of
the securities and/or the person performing the acts and assuming
the duties of depositor or manager.
SCHEDULE B
(1) Name of borrowing government or subdivision thereof;
(2) specific purposes in detail and the approximate amounts to
be devoted to such purposes, so far as determinable, for which the
security to be offered is to supply funds. and if the funds are to be
raised in part from other sources, the amounts thereof and the
sources thereof, shall be stated;

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
24
(3) the amount of the funded debt and the estimated amount of
the fleating debt outstanding and to be created by the security to be
offered, excluding intergovernmental debt, and a brief description
of the date, maturity, character of such debt, rate of interest, charac-
ter of amortization provisions, and the security, if any, therefor.
If substitution of any security is permissible, a statement of the con-
ditions under which such substitution is permitted. If substitution
is permissible without notice, a specific statement to that effect;
(4) whether or not the issuer or its predecessor has, within a
period of twenty years prior to the filing of the registration state-
ment, defaulted on the principal or interest of any external security.
excluding intergovernmental debt, and, if so, the date, amount, and
circumstances of such default, and the terms of the succeeding
arrangement, if any;
(5) the receipts, classified by source, and the expenditures, classi-
fied by purpose, in such detail and form as the Commission shall
prescribe for the latest fiscal year for which such information is
available and the two preceding fiscal years, year by year;
(6) the names and addresses of the underwriters;
(7) the name and address of its authorized agent, if any, in the
United States:
(8) the estimated net proceeds to be derived from the sale in
the United States of the security to be offered;
(9) the price at which it is proposed that the security shall be
offered in the United States to the public or the method by which
such price is computed. A variation in price may be proposed prior
to the date of the public offering of the security, but the Commission
shall immediately be notified of such variation;
(10) all commissions paid or to be paid, directly or indirectly, by
the issuer to the underwriters in respect of the sale of the security
to be offered. Commissions shall include all cash, securities, con-
tracts, or anything else of value, paid, to be set aside, disposed of,
or understandings with or for the benefit of any other persons in
which the underwriter is interested, made, in connection with the
sale of such security. Where any such commission is paid, the
amount of such commission paid to each underwriter shall be stated;
(11) the amount or estimated amounts, itemized in reasonable
detail, of expenses, other than the commissions specified in para-
graph (10) of this schedule, incurred or borne by or for the account
of the issuer in connection with the sale of the security to be offered
or properly chargeable thereto, including legal, engineering, certifi-
cation, and other charges;
(12) the names and addresses of counsel who have passed upon
the legality of the issue:
(13) a copy of any agreement or agreements nade with any
underwriter governing the sale of the security within the United
States; and
(14) an agreement of the issuer to furnish a copy of the opinion
or opinions of counsel in respect to the legality of the issue, with a
translation, where necessary, into the English language. Such opin-
ion shall set out in full all laws, decrees, ordinances, or other acts
of Government under which the issue of such security has been
authorized.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
25
TITLE II
Section 201. For the purpose of protecting, conserving, and
advancing the interests of the holders of foreign securities in default,
there is hereby created a body corporate with the name " Corporation
of Foreign Security Holders" (herein called the "Corporation").
The principal office of the Corporation shall be located in the District
of Columbia, but there may be established agencies or branch offices
in any city or cities of the United States under rules and regulations
prescribed by the board of directors.
Sec. 202. The control and management of the Corporation shall
be vested in a board of six directors, who shall be appointed and
hold office in the following manner: As soon as practicable after the
date this Act takes effect the Federal Trade Commission (herein-
after in this title called " Commission") shall appoint six directors,
and shall designate a chairman and a vice chairman from among
their number. After the directors designated as chairman and vice
chairman cease to be directors, their successors as chairman and vice
chairman shall be elected by the board of directors itself. Of the
directors first appointed, two shall continue in office for a term of two
years, two for a term of four years, and two for a term of six years,
from the date this Act takes effect, the term of each to be designated
by the Commission at the time of appointment. Their successors
shall be appointed by the Commission, each for a term of six years
from the date of the expiration of the term for which his prede-
cessor was appointed, except that any person appointed to fill a
vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his
predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the unex-
pired term of such predecessor. No person shall be eligible to serve
as a director who within the five years preceding has had any in-
terest, direct or indirect, in any corporation, company, partnership,
bank or association which has sold, or offered for sale any foreign
securities. The office of a director shall be vacated if the board of
directors shall at a meeting specially convened for that purpose by
resolution passed by a majority of at least two-thirds of the board
of directors, remove such member from office, provided that the
member whom it is proposed to remove shall have seven days' notice
sent to him of such meeting and that he may be heard.
Sec. 203. The Corporation shall have power to adopt, alter, and
use a corporate seal; to make contracts; to lease such real estate as
may be necessary for the transaction of its business; to sue and
be sued, to complain and to defend, in any court of competent juris-
diction, State or Federal; to require from trustees, financial agents,
or dealers in foreign securities information relative to the original
or present holders of foreign securities and such other information
as may be required and to issue subpenas therefor; to take over the
functions of any fiscal and paying agents of any foreign securities in
default; to borrow money for the purposes of this title, and to
pledge as collateral for such loans any securities deposited with
the Corporation pursuant to this title; by and with the consent and
approval of the Commission to select, employ, and fix the compen-
sation of officers, directors, members of committees, employees, attor-
neys, and agents of the Corporation, without regard to the provi-

=== Page 36 === (confidence 1.00)
26
sions of other laws applicable to the employment and compensation
of officers or employees of the United States; to define their authority
and duties, require bonds of them and fix the penalties thereof,
and to dismiss at pleasure such officers, employees, attorneys, and
agents; and to prescribe, amend, and repeal, by its board of direc-
tors, bylaws, rules, and regulations governing the manner in which
its general business may be conducted and the powers granted to it
by law may be exercised and enjoyed, together with provisions for
such committees and the functions thereof as the board of directors
may deem necessary for facilitating its business under this title.
The board of directors of the Corporation shall determine and pre-
scribe the manner in which its obligations shall be incurred and its
expenses allowed and paid.
Sec. 204. The board of directors may—
(1) Convene meetings of holders of foreign securities.
(2) Invite the deposit and undertake the custody of foreign securi-
ties which have defaulted in the payment either of principal or
interest, and issue receipts or certificates in the place of securities so
deposited.
(3) Appoint committees from the directors of the Corporation
and/or all other persons to represent holders of any class or classes
of foreign securities which have defaulted in the payment either of
principal or interest and determine and regulate the functions of such
committees. The chairman and vice chairman of the board of direc-
tors shall be ex officio chairman and vice chairman of each committee.
(4) Negotiate and carry out, or assist in negotiating and carrying
out, arrangements for the resumption of paynients due or in arrears
in respect of any foreign securities in default or for rearranging the
terms on which such securities may in future be held or for convert-
ing and exchanging the same for new securities or for any other
object in relation thereto; and under this paragraph any plan or
agreement made with respect to such securities shall be binding upon
depositors, providing that the consent of holders resident in the
United States of 60 per centum of the securities deposited with the
Corporation shall be obtained.
(5) Undertake, superintend, or take part in the collection and
application of funds derived from foreign securities which come into
the possession of or under the control or management of the
Corporation.
(6) Collect, preserve, publish, circulate. and render available in
readily accessible form, when deemed essential or necessary, docu-
ments, statistics, reports, and information of all kinds in respect of
foreign securities, including particularly records of foreign external
securities in default and records of the pregress made toward the
payment of past-due obligations.
(7) Take such steps as it may deem expedient with the view of
securing the adoption of clear and simple forms of foreign securities
and just and sound principles in the conditions and terms thereof.
(8) Generally, act in the name and on behalf of the holders of
foreign securities the care of representation of whose interests may
be entrusted to the Corporation; conserve and protect the rights and
interests of holders of foreign securities issued, sold, or owned in the
United States; adopt measures for the protection, vindication, and

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
27
preservation or reservation of the rights and interests of holders of
foreign securities either on any default in or on breach or contem-
plated breach of the conditions on which such foreign securities may
have been issued, or otherwise; obtain for such holders such legal
and other assistance and advice as the board of directors may deem
expedient; and to do all such other things as are incident or con-
ducive to the attainment of the above objects.
Sec. 205. The board of directors shall cause accounts to be kept of
all matters relating to or connected with the transactions and busi-
ness of the Corporation, and cause a general account and balance
sheet of the Corporation to be made out in each year, and cause all
accounts to be audited by one or more auditors who shall examine
the same and report thereon to the board of directors.
Sec. 206. The Corporation shall make, print, and make public an
annual report of its operations during each year, send a copy thereof,
together with a copy of the account and balance sheet and auditor's
report, to the Commission and to both Houses of Congress, and pro-
vide one copy of such report but not more than one on the application
of any person and on receipt of a sum not exceeding $1: Provided,
That the board of directors in its discretion may distribute copies
gratuitously.
SEc. 207. The Corporation may in its discretion levy charges,
assessed on a pro rata basis, on the holders of foreign securities
deposited with it: Provided, That any charge levied at the time of
depositing securities with the Corporation shall not exceed one fifth
of 1 per centum of the face value of such securities: Provided fur-
ther, That any additional charges shall bear a close relationship to
the cost of operations and negotiations including those enumerated
in sections 203 and 204 and shall not exceed 1 per centum of the face
value of such securities.
Sec. 208. The Corporation may receive subscriptions from any
person, foundation with a public purpose, or agency of the United
States Government, and such subscriptions may, in the discretion of
the board of directors, be treated as loans repayable when and as the
board of directors shall determine.
SEC. 209. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation is hereby
authorized to loan out of its funds not to exceed $75,000 for the use
of the Corporation.
Sec. 210. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this title,
it shall be unlawful for, and nothing in this title shall be taken or
construed as permitting or authorizing, the Corporation in this title
created, or any committee of said Corporation, or any person or
persons acting for or representing or purporting to represent it—
(a) to claim or assert or pretend to be acting for or to repre-
sent the Department of State or the United States Government;
(b) to make any statements or representations of any kind to
any foreign government or its officials or the officials of any
political subdivision of any foreign government that said Cor-
poration or any committee thereof or any individual or indi-
viduals connected therewith were speaking or acting for the
said Department of State or the United States Government; or
(c) to do any act directly or indirectly which would interfere
with or ohstruct or hinder or which might be calculated to

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
28
obstruct, hinder or interfere with the policy or policies of the
said Department of State or the Government of the United
States or any pending or contemplated diplomatic negotiations,
arrangements, business or exchanges between the Government
of the United States or said Department of State and any for-
eign government or any political subdivision thereof.
Sec. 211. This title shall not take effect until the President finds
that its taking effect is in the public interest and by proclamation
so declares.
Sec. 212. This title may be cited as the "Corporation of Foreign
Bondholders Act, 1933.
Approved May 27th 1933.
. COVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 198
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents. Washington, D. C.
Price 5 cents

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE CÓMMASSIONCreay
of State
WASHINGTON, D. C.
1940
MR. 
GENERAL RULES AND
REGULATIONS
UNDER
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
FEBRUARY 15, 1940
UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1940

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
COMMISSIONERS
JEROME N. FrANK, Chairman
GEOrGE C. MAtHEWS
RoBert E. Healy
EDWARD C. EICHER
LEON HENDerSON
SECRETARY
Francis P. Brasso
PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE COMMISSION
1778 Pennsylvania Avenue NW.
Washington, D. C.
REGIONAL OFFICES OF THE COMMISSION
Zon 1.—New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania.
Room 2006, 120 Broadway, New York City.
Zonm 2.—Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hampshire,
Maine.
82 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.
Zonm 3.—Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Missis-
sippi, Florida, and that part of Louisiana lying east of the Atcha-
falaya River.
Palmer Building, Atlanta, Ga.
Zonz 4.—Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky.
1608 Standard Building, Cleveland, Ohio.
Zone 5.—Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas City (Kans.).
Bankers Building, 105 West Adams St., Chicago, Ill.
Zone 6.—Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, that part of Louisiana lying west of the
Atchafalaya River, and Kansas (except Kansas City).
New Federal Building, Fort Worth, Tex.
Zonm 7.—Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Nebraska, North Dakota, South
Dakota, Utah.
Patterson Building, Denver, Colo.
Zonm 8.—California, Nevada, Arizona, Philippine Islands, Hawaii.
625 Market St., San Francisco, Calif.
Zonm 9.—Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Alaska.
Exchange Building, 821 Second Avenue, Seattle, Wash.
WAsNoron FmD.—Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, District of
Columbia.
1778 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, D. C.
π

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
PREFACE
This compilation of the General Rules and Regulations contains all
rules under the Securities Act of 1933 which were in effect on Febru-
ary 15, 1940, except the forms for registration with accompanying
instruction books and the Rules of Practice.
Rules have been grouped a cording to subject matter under broad
classifications designated regulations, and subdivisions called articles.
The sequence in which articles and rules have been arranged is based
in general on the chronological order of steps involved in the regis-
tration of securities.
Rules relating to the same subject matter have been assigned num-
bers in the same 100 series so far as practicable. In accordance with
this plan, and in order that any additional rule adopted in the future
may be assigned a number at the point appropriate to the subject
matter, no attempt has been made to number the rules consecutively.
m

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN TH RULES
AND REGULATIONS
Rule
Subject
Page
100 Definitions of terms used in the rules and regulations.
1
ARTICLE 2. OFFICE OF THE COMMISSION
110 Business hours of the Commission.
1
ARTICLE 3. INSPECTION AND PUBLICATION OF REGISTERED
INFORMATION
120 Inspection of registration statements.
2
121 Sale of copies of registered information.
2
122 Nondisclosure of information obtained in the course of examinations
and investigations.
2
ARTICLE 4. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THE ACT
140
Definition of "distribution" in section 2 (11), for certain transactions.
3
141
Definition of "commission from an underwriter or dealer not in
excess of the usual and customary distributors' or sellers'com-
missions" in section 2 (11), for certain transactions.
3
142 Definition of "participates" and "participation", as used in section
2 (11), in relation to certain transactions.
4
149
Delinition of "exchanged" in section 3 (a) (9), for certain transactions.
4
150
Definition of "commission or other remuneration" in section 3 (a)
(9), for certain transactions.
5
151
1 Definition of "issuance" in section 4 (3) of the Securities Act of
1933, before amendment, for certain transactions.
5
152 Definition of "transactions by an issuer not involving any publio
offering" in section 4 (1), for certain transactions.
8
Definition of "preceded by a prospectus", as used in section 5 (b)
(2), in relation to certain transactions.
5
ARTICLE 5. APPLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS
161 Application of amendments to rules governing exemptions.
6
162 Application of amendments to rules governing contents of pros-
pectuses.
6
ARTICLE 6. PROHIBITION OF USE OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
170 Prohibition of use of certain financial statements.
7
REGULATION A
EXEMPTIONS, EXCEPT THOSE RELATING TO OIL AND GAS INTERESTS
200
0 $30,000 exemption
8
201 General exemption of securities sold for cash.
9
202 Exemption of stock in a corporation or similar interests in a trust or
unincorporated association
10
203 Exemption of first mortgage notes and bonds.
13
v

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
VI
CONTENTS
Rule
Subject
Page
204
Exemption of certificates of deposit.
15
205
Exemption of securities exchanged for outstanding securities.
18
206
Exemption of voting trust certificates.
19
207
Exemption of certain mineral rights.
20
208 Exemption of certain securities issued in connection with reorganiza-
tions of banks.
21
209
Exemption of certain mortgages and trust agreements.
21
210
General exemption of securities sold for cash in compliance with
State law.
21
REGULATION B
EXEMPTIONS RELATING TO FRACTIONAL UNDIVIDED INTERESTS IN
OIL OR GAS RIGHTS
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
800 Definitions of terms used in regulation B.
24
ARTICLE 2. EXEMPTIONS AVAILABLE TO FRACTIONAL
UNDiVIdeD INteReStS IN OIL OR GAS RigHtS
UNDER SECTION 3 (b) OF THE ACT
310 Limitation upon exemption.
25
312
Exemption not available to offeror, if unregistered dealer.
25
314
Exception to availability of exemption.
25
ARTICLE 3. REQUIREMENTS POR OFFEROR SEEKING EXEMPTION
320
Conditions to exemption and relief from liability for non-registration.
26
322
Transactions conditionally excepted.
27
324
Filing of offering sheets on behalf of other persons.
28
326
Liability for unauthorized use of offering sheet.
28
328
Restricting use of estimations not included in offering sheets.
28
ARTICLE 4. FORM OF OFFERING SHEETS
330 Form and contents of offering sheets.
29
332
Representations in offering sheets.
30
334
Interests involving non-contiguous tracts.
31
ARTICLE 5. SUSPENSION ORDERS AND THEIR EPFECT
340 Suspension orders.
31
342 Effect of suspension order.
32
ARTICLE β. WITHDRAWAL, AMENDMENT, AND
TERMINATION OF OFFERING SHEETS
350
Withdrawal of offering sheet.
33
352
When offering sheet may be amended.
33
354
How offering sheet may be amended.
33
356
Voluntary termination of effectiveness of offering sheet.
34
REGULATION B-T
EXEMPTIONS RELATING TO INTERESTS IN AN OIL ROYALTY TRUST OR SIMILAR TYPE
OF TRUST OR UNINCORPORATED ASSOCIATION
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
360 Definitions of terms used in regulation B-T.
35

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
VII
ARTICLE 2. EXEMPTIONS AVAILABLE TO CERTIFICATES OF INTEREST
UnDER SzCtION 3 (b) OF TH ACT
Rule
Subject
Page
362 Limitation upon exemption.
86
364 Contractual conditions to availability of exemption.
86
ARTICL 8. RBQUIremENTS FOR ISSUER, UnDERWRITER, OR DBAlER
SEEKING EXEMPTION
370 Procedural conditions to exemption and relief from liability for non-
registration.
37
ATICL 4. FORM OF PROETUS
376 Form and content of prospectus.
38
ARTICLE 5. SUSPENSION ORDERS AND THEIR EFFECT
380 Suspension orders.
40
382 Effective date of prospectus—Effect of suspension order.
41
ARTICLE 6. WITHDRAWAL, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION OF
PROSPECTUS
390 Withdrawal of prospectus..
42
392
When prospectus may be amended.
42
394
How prospectus may be amended.
42
396
Termination of effectiveness of prospectus.
43
REGULATION C
REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1. APPLICATION OF REGULATION C
400 Application of regulation C.
44
ARTICLE 2. FORmAL ReqUIReMENTS AS TO ReGISTRAtION
STATEMENTS
410 Forms.
44
411
Procedure where printed form not used.
44
412
Paper-
44
413
Type-Ink_
44
414
Margins.
45
415
Riders—Inserts.
45
ARTICLE 3. CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION STATEMENTS
A. TERMS USED IN THE FORMS FOR REGISTRATION
450 Substitution of "Securities and Exchange Commission" for "Federal
Trade Commission"
45
451 Reference to rule or regulation by obsolete designation.
45
455 Definitions of terma used in the forms for registration.
45
B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AS TO CONTENTS
500 Clarity.
47
501 Forms and instructions relate to registrant.
47
502
Information unknown to registrant.
47
503
3 Statement required where item is inapplicable or where answer is
"None"
47

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
vII
CONTENTS
Rule
Subject
Page
604
Words relating to periods of time in the past.
47
505
Words relating to the future.
48
506
Summaries or outlines of documents.
48
520
Disclaimer of control.
48
521
"Title of issue"
48
1
522
Omission of information as to tentative plans under section 11 (b)
of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
48
C. INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
560 Incorporation of matter in registration statement, other than exhibits.
as answer to item.
49
561 Incorporation of exhibit as answer to item.
49
562 Incorporation of exhibit previously or concurrently filed, as exhibit
to new registration statement.
49
563 Incorporation of financial statements previously or concurrently
filed
49
564
Filing of written consents to use of incorporated material.
49
565
Identification of material incorporated—Form of incorporation.
50
566
Incorporation by reference of contested material.
50
567
Incorporation by reference rendering registration statement incom-
plete, unclear, or confusing.
50
568 Incorporation of answer to item in registration of guarantee.
50
D. NONDIBCLOSURE OF CONTRACT PROVISIONS
580 Nondisclosure of contract provisions.
50
581 Contracts affecting the national defense.
51
E. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
600 Special financial requirements in case registrant is a natural person..
53
F. ACCOUNTANTS
650 Qualifications of accountants.
54
651 Certification by accountants_
54
652 Certification by foreign government auditors.
55
G. WRITTEN CONSENTS
670 Written consents of experts.
55
671
Application to dispense with written consent.
55
672
Written consents of persons named in the registration statement
as about to become directors or partners.
55
H. EXHIBITS
680 Additional exhibits
56
681 Omission of substantially identical documents.
56
J. POWERS OF AGENT FOR SERVICE NAMED IN REGISTRATION
STATEMENT
720 Powers of agent for service named in registration statement.
56

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
CONTENTS
IX
K. UNDERTAKING TO FURNIBH SUPPLEMENTARY AND
PERIODIC INFORMATION, DOCUMENTS, AND REPORTS
Rule
Subject
Page
730 Undertaking to furnish supplementary and periodic information,
documents, and reports.
57
M. CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT FOR SECURITIES
ISSUED BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OR POLITICAL
BUBDIVISION THEREOF
780 Information to be furnished by a foreign government under para-
graph (6) of schedule B.
57
781 Information to be furnished under paragraph (3) of schedule B....
57
ARTICLE 4. PROSPECTUSES
A. GENERAL REOUIREMENTS AS TO PROSPECTUSES
800
Filing of prospectuses—Number of copies.
58
801
Reconciliation and tie_
58
B. CONTENTS OF PROSPECTUSES
821
Condensation-Order of information—Incorporation by reference_-
58
822
Financial statements included in prospectus.
58
823
Legibility of prospectus.
58
824
Date of issue of prospectus.
59
825
Statement required in all prospectuses.
59
826
Statement required in prospectuses omitting information contained
in registration statement.
59
827
Statement required in prospectuses relative to stabilizing-
59
830
Omissions from prospectuses for securities registered on form A-1.
60
831
Omissions from prospectuses for sccurities issued by foreign govern-
ment or political subdivision thereof.
60
832
Omissions from prospectuses for securities registered on form C-1.-
60
833
Omissions from prospectuses for securities registered on form D-1..
61
834
Omissions from prospectuses for securities registered on form D-1A.
61
835
Omissions from prospectuses for securities registered on forn E-1...
61
836
Omissions from prospectuses for securities registered on form F-1...-
62
850
Contents of prospectus used more than thirteen months after effec-
tive date of registration statement.
62
851
Contents of prospectus when several registration statements in effect.
62
880
Newspaper advertisements containing invitations for bids pursuant
to State law
63
890 Special prospectuses containing statement as to stabilizing-
63
ARTICLE 5. FEES
900 Computation of fee.
64
901
Payment of fee.
64
ARTICLE 6. FILING
920
Binding—Nuniber of copies.
64
921
Place of filing-
64
922
Date of filing.
65
200958--40----2

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
x
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 7. EFFECTIV DATE
Rule
Subject
Page
930 Calculation of time.
65
ARTICLE 8. AMENDMENTS
940 Formal requirements for amendments.
65
941 Signatures to amendments.
65
942
Filing of amendmenta—Number of copies.
66
943
Telegraphic delaying amendments.
66
944
Date of filing of amendments.
66
945
Effective date of amendment filed under section 8 (a) with consent
of Commission.
66
946 Effective date of amendment filed under section 8 (a) pursuant to
order of Commission.
66
ARTICLE 9. WITHDRAWAL
960 Withdrawal of registration statement or amendment thereto..
66
ARTICLE 10. SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENTS AS TO OFPERING
PRICE
970 Supplementary statement of actual offering price.
67
ARTICLE 11. REGISTRATION OF ADDITIONAL BLOCKS OF
SECURITIES PREVIOUSLY REGISTERED
980 Registration of additional blocks of securities previously registered..
67

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THE RULES AND
REGULATIONS
Rule 100. Definitions of Terms Used in the Rules and Regula-
tions.
(a) As used in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933,
unless the context otherwise requires—
(1) The term "Conmission" means the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
(2) The term "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(3) The term "section" refers to a section of the Act.
(4) The term "rules and regulations" refers to all rules and regu-
lations adopted by the Commission pursuant to the Act, including the
forms for registration and the accompanying instruction books.
(5) The term "registrant" means the issuer of securities for which
a registration statement is filed.
(6) The term "agent for service" means the person authorized in
the registration statement to receive notices and communications from
the Commission.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided, the terms used in the
rules and regulations shall have the meanings defined in the Act.
(c) A rule in the General Rules and Regulations which defines a
term without express reference to the Act or to the rules and regula-
tions or to a portion thereof defines such term for all purposes as used
both in the Act and in the rules and regulations, unless the context
otherwise requires.
ARTICLE 2. OFFICE OF THE COMMISSION
Rule 110. Business Hours of the Commission.
The principal office of the Commission at Washington, D. C., is open
on each business day, excepting Saturdays, from 9 a. m. to 4:30 p. m.,
and on Saturdays from 9 a. m. to 1 p. m.
1

=== Page 50 === (confidence 1.00)
2
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
ARTICLE 3. INSPECTION AND PUBLICATION OF REGISTERED
INFORMATION
Rule 120. Inspection of Registration Statements.
Registration statements will be available for public inspection in
the office of the Commission, Washington, D. C., during all business
hours, except any material contract or portion thereof accorded con-
fidential treatment pursuant to rule 580.
Rule 121. Sale of Copies of Registered Information.
(a) Photocopies of any material filed with the Commission and
available for public inspection will be sold to the public at the fol-
lowing rates per photocopy, except as provided in (c), whether sev-
eral copies of a single original page or one or more copies of several
original pages are ordered: 10 cents per photocopy of each page, for
all copies up to and including 100 in a single order; 7 cents per photo-
copy of each page, for all copies over 100 in a single order.
(b) Estimates as to prices for copies and the time required for their
preparation will be furnished upon request. Payment shall accom-
pany the order, if practicable. If an order is received and insuffi-
cient or no payment accompanies it, the material will be photocopied
and the party making the order will be billed.
(c) Photocopies of Registration Record Reference Cards will be
sold to the public at 25 cents per copy of the record of any single
registration statement, regardless of the number of photocopy pages
which comprise such record at the time such photocopy is furnished.
(d) Payment shall be made in cash, or by United States postal
money order or certified bank check payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, omitting the name or title of any official of
the Commission. Postage stamps will not be accepted.
Rule 122. Nondisclosure of Information Obtained in the Course
of Examinations and Investigations.
Information or documents obtained by officers or employees of the
Commission in the course of any examination or investigation pur-
suant to section 8 (e) or 20 (a) shall, unless made a matter of
public record, be deemed confidential. Officers and employees are
hereby prohibited from making such confidential information or docu-
ments available to anyone other than a member, officer, or employee of
the Commission, unless the Commission authorizes the disclosure of
such information or the production of such documents as not being
contrary to the public interest. Any officer or employee who is served
with a subpena requiring the disclosure of such information or the
production of such documents shall appear in court and, unless the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
3
authorization described in the preceding sentence shall have been
given, shall respectfully decline to disclose the information or produce
the documents called for, basing his refusal upon this rule. Any
officer or employee who is served with such a subpena shall promptly
advise the Commission of the service of such subpena, the nature of
the information or documents sought, and any circumstances which
may bear upon the desirability of making available such information
or documents.
ARTICLE 4. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THE AOT
Rule 140. Definition of "Distribution" in Section 2 (11), for Cer-
tain Transactions.
A person, the chief part of the business of which consists in the
purchase of the securities of any one issuer, its subsidiary and/or
affiliate and in the sale of its own securities to furnish the proceeds
with which to acquire the securities of such issuer, subsidiary and/or
affiliate, is to be regarded as engaged in the distribution of the secur-
ities of such issuer, subsidiary and/or affiliate within the meaning
of section 2 (11).
Rule 141. Definition of "Commission From an Underwriter or
Dealer Not in Excess of the Usual and Customary Distribu-
tors' or Sellers' Commissions" in Section 2 (11), for Certain
Transactions.
(a) 'The term "conmission" in section 2 (11) shall include such
remuneration, commonly known as a spread, as may be received
by a distributor or dealer as a consequence of reselling securities
bought from au underwriter or dealer at a price below the offering
price of such securities, where such resales afford the distributor or
dealer a margin of profit not in excess of what is usual and cus-
tomary in such transactions.
(b) The term "conmission from an underwriter or dealer" in sec-
tion 2 (11) shall include commissions paid by an underwriter or
dealer directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under
direct or indirect common control with the issuer.
(c) The term "usual and customary distributors' or sellers' com-
mission" in section 2 (11) shall mean a commission or remunera-
tion, commonly known as a spread, paid to or received by any per-
son selling securities either for his own account or for the account
of others, which is not in excess of the amount usual and customary
in the distribution and sale of issues of similar type and size, and
not in excess of the amount allowed to other persons, if any, for
comparable service in the distribution of the particular issue; but such

=== Page 52 === (confidence 1.00)
4
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
term shall not include amounts paid to any person whose function is
the management of the distribution of all or a substantial part of
the particular issue, or who performs the functions normally per-
formed by an underwriter or underwriting syndicate.
Rule 142. Definition of "Participates" and "Participation," as
Used in Section 2 (11), in Relation to Certain Transactions.
(a) The terms "participates" and "participation" in section 2 (11)
shall not include the interest of a person (1) who is not in privity
of contract with the issuer nor directly or indirectly controlling, con-
trolled by, or under common control with, the issuer, and (2) who
has no association with any principal underwriter of the securities
being distributed, and (3) whose function in the distribution is con-
fined to an undertaking to purchase all or some specified proportion
of the securities remaining unsold after the lapse of some specified
period of time, and (4) who purchases such securities for investment
and not with a view to distribution.
(b) As used in this rule—
(1) The term "issuer" shall have the meaning defined in section
2 (4) and in the last sentence of section 2 (11).
(2) The term "association" shall include a relationship between
two persons under which one—
(A) Is directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under
conmon control with, the other, or
(B) Has, in common with the other, one or more partners, officers.
directors, trustees, branch managers, or other persons occupying a
similar status or performing similar functions, or
(C) Has a participation, direct or indirect, in the profits of the
other, or has a financial stake, by debtor-creditor relationship, stock
ownership, contract or otherwise, in the income or business of the
other.
(3) The term "principal underwriter" shall have the meaning
defined in rule 455.
Rule 149. Definition of "Exchanged" in Section 3 (a) (9), for
Certain Transactions.
The term "exchanged" in section 3 (a) (9) shall be deemed to
include the issuance of a security in consideration of the surrender,
by the existing security holders of the issuer, of outstanding secur-
ities of the issuer, notwithstanding the fact that the surrender of
the outstanding securities nmay be required by the terms of the plan of
exchange to be accompanied by such payment in cash by the security
holder as may be necessary to effect an equitable adjustment, in
respect of dividends or interest paid or payable on the securities
involved in the exchange, as between such security holder and other
security holders of the same class accepting the offer of exchange.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
5
Rule 150. Definition of "Commission or Other Remuneration" in
Section 3 (a) (9), for Certain Transactions.
The term "commission or other remuneration" in section 3 (a) (9)
shall not include payments made by the issuer, directly or indirectly,
to its security holders in connection with an exchange of securities
for outstanding securities, when such payments are part of the terms
of the offer of exchange.
Rule 151. Definition of "Issuance" in Section 4 (3) of the Se
curities Act of 1933, Before Amendment, for Certain Trans-
actions.
The term "issuance" in the former section 4 (3) of the Securities
Act of 1933 meant a sale by an issuer, within the meaning of the term
"sale" as defined in section 2 (3) of the Act to include an "attempt
or offer to dispose of" a security for value. Therefore, any security
which was bona fide offered for issuance in an exempt transaction of
exchange under section 4 (3) prior to July 1, 1934, shall be deemed
a security issued in a transaction exempted by that section.
Rule 152. Definition of "Transactions by an Issuer Not Involy-
ing Any Public Offering" in Section 4 (1), for Certain Trans-
actions.
The phrase "transactions by an issuer not involving any public
offering" in section 4 (1) shall be deemed to apply to transactions
not involving any public offering at the time of said transactions
although subsequently thereto the issuer decides to make & publio
offering and/or files a registration statement.
Rule 153. Definition of "Preceded by a Prospectus", as Used in
Section 5 (b) (2), in Relation to Certain Transactions.
The term "preceded by a prospectus", as used in section 5 (b) (2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in respect of any requirement
of delivery of a prospectus to a member of a national securities ex-
change, on account of a transaction in a security effected on such
exchange, shall mean delivery, prior to such transaction, of copies of
a prospectus descriptive of such security and meeting the require-
ments of section 10, to such exchange by the issuer or any underwriter,
for the purpose of redelivery to members of such exchange upon their
request: Provided, That as to any transaction occurring during the
period of 1 year after the first date upon which such security shall
have been bona fide offered to the public by the issuer or by or
through an underwriter (exclusive of the time during which a stop
order issued under section 8 is in effect as to such security)—
(a) Such exchange shall theretofore have requested of the issuer
or, if such request shall not have been complied with, of a "principal

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
6
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
underwriter" (as that term is defined in rule 455, article 3, regula-
tion C), from time to time, such number of copies of such prospectus
as may have appeared reasonably necessary to comply with the re-
quests of its members, and shall have delivered from its supply on
hand a copy to any member theretofore making a written request
therefor; and
(b) The issuer or any underwriter shall theretofore have furnished
such exchange with such reasonable number of copies of such pro-
spectus as may have been requested by the exchange for the purpose
stated above.
The term "national securities exchange", as used herein, shall mean
a securities exchange registered as a national securities exchange under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
ARTICLE 5. APPLICATION OF RULES AND REGULAtIONS
Rule 161. Application of Amendments to Rules Governing Ex-
emptions.
Rules governing the exemption of a security under section 3 (b) of
the Act, as in effect at the time the security is first bona fide offered
to the public in conformity therewith, shall continue to govern the
exemption of such security notwithstanding subsequent amendments
to such rules, except as otherwise provided in any such amendment.
This rule shall not apply to any new offering of such security by
an issuer or underwriter made after the effective date of any such
amendment.
Rule 162. Application of Amendments to Rules Governing Con-
tents of Prospectuses.
(a) The form and contents of any prospectus need conform only
to the applicable rules in effect at the time the registration statement
becomes effective notwithstanding subsequent amendments to such
rules, except as otherwise provided in any such amendment or in para-
graph (b) or (c) of this rule.
(b) When a stop order entered under section 8 (d) ceases to be
effective as to a registration statement, the form and contents of any
prospectus used thereafter for securities covered by such statement
shall conform to the applicable rules in effect at the date such stop
order ceases to be effective.
(c) Any prospectus of which copies are filed with the Commission
on or after March 15, 1936, pursuant to rule 850 (b) shall conform
to the requirements of rule 825.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
7
ARTICLE 6. PROHIBITION OF USE OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Rule 170. Prohibition of Use of Certain Financial Statements.
Financial statements which purport to give effect to the receipt
and application of any part of the proceeds from the sale of securi-
ties for cash shall not be used unless the sale of such securities is
underwritten and the underwriters are to be irrevocably bound, on
or before the date of the public offering, to take the issue. The
caption of any such financial statement shall clearly set forth the
names of the underwriters and the assumptions upon which such
statement is based. The caption shall be in type at least as large as
that used generally in the body of the statement.
209958403

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATION A
EXEMPTIONS, EXCEPT THOSE RELATING TO
OIL AND GAS INTERESTS
Rule 200. $30,000 Exemption.
Subject to the conditions stated in this rule, the following securi-
ties are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes
of securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act:
Any securities (other than those specified below) upon the con-
dition that the aggregate offering price to the public shall not exceed
the sum of $30,000: Provided, however, That the amount of the offer-
ing shall be reduced by the amount of any other offerings (whether
public or private), within one year prior to the offering herein
exempted, of securities of the same issuer, or of any person con-
trolling, controlled by, or under common control with such issuer,
unless, or except to the extent that, such offerings lhave been with-
drawn or have comprised securities (a) such as are described in
section 3 (a) (3) of the Act or (b) issued in connection with the
liquidation or the purchase or pledge of the assets of any national
banking association and to which the provisions of title I of the Act
do not apply by reason of any of the provisions of subsection (a)
of section 3 thereof. The aggregate offering price of securities offered
at the market shall be taken as the product of the number of units
offered multiplied by the price per unit at which the securities were
bona fide sold on the first day of sale. The aggregate offering price
of any securities exchanged for bona fide outstanding securities or
claims shall be determined as provided in rule 205. The aggregate
offering price of assessable shares of stock shall be taken as the
sum of the offering price thereof determined as hereinbefore pro.
vided, and the aggregate amount of all assessments which may legally
be levied thereon.
This rule shall not be applicable to exempt (1) certificates of
deposit except certificates of deposit or receipts issued pursuant to
a plan and/or agreement under which such certificates of deposit
or receipts are to be exchanged for bonds issued by the Home Owners'
Loan Corporation and/or the net cash proceeds thereof; (2) securi-
ties exchanged for bona fide outstanding securities or claims; (3)
voting trust certificates; (4) overriding royalty interests, oil and/or
gas payments, or fractional undivided interests in oil, gas, or other
mineral rights; or (5) certificates of interest or participation in
8

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
9
trusts or unincorporated associations, a substantial portion of the as-
sets of which consists of, or it is contemplated will consist of, oil
or gas leasehold interests or rights, or fractional undivided interests
in oil or gas rights.
Rule 201. General Exemption of Securities Sold for Cash.
Subject to the conditions stated in this rule, the following securi-
ties are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes
of securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act:
Any securities (other than notes or bonds directly secured by first
mortgage or first deed of trust on real estate or on a leasehold, and
other than overriding royalty interests, oil, and/or gas payments,
fractional undivided interests in oil, gas, or other mineral rights,
or certificates of interest or participation in trusts or unincorporated
associations, a substantial portion of the assets of which consists of,
or it is contemplated will consist of, oil or gas leasehold interests
or rights, or fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights),
subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a) That no portion of the securities herein exempted shall be sold
otherwise than for cash, and that no securities of the same class as
those herein exempted (except evidences of indebtedness exchanged
by the issuer with its existing security holders) shall have been sold
otherwise than for cash within 1 year prior to the offering of the
securities herein exempted.
(b) That the aggregate offering price to the public shall not ex-
ceed the sum of $100,000: Provided, however, That the amount of the
offering shall be reduced by the amount of any other offerings of
securities of the same issuer which, within 1 year prior to the offering
herein exempted, were exempted from registration solely by reason
of this or any other rule under section 3 (b) of the Act, unless, or
except to the extent that, such offerings have been withdrawn. The
aggregate offering price of securities offered at the market shall be
taken as the product of the number of units offered multiplied by
the price per unit at which the securities were bona fide sold on the
first day of sale. The aggregate offering price of assessable shares
of stock shall be taken as the sum of the offering price thereof deter-
mined as hereinbefore provided, and the aggregate amount of all
assessments which may legally be levied thereon.
(c) That, if distribution be effected through an underwriter for
an issuer, the net proceeds realized by the issuer from the securities
herein exempted shall be not less than 90 percent of the aggregatø
offering price thereof to the public, calculated as provided in para-
graph (b) above.
(d) That there shall be inserted in a conspicuous part of any pros-
pectus prepared or authorized by the issuer (or by a person con-

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
10
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
trolling, controlled by, or under common control with, the issuer)
offering for sale any security herein exempted, in type as large as
that used in the body thereof, the following statement:
These securities have not been registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission because such securities are believed to be exempted from registra-
tion. But such exemption, if available, in no sense indicates approval by the
Commission of the merits of these securities.
(e) That the securities: (1), if evidences of indebtedness, shall
be in denominations of not less than $500 principal amount each and
shall be offered to the public at a price not less than 90 percent of the
prineipal amount thereof; or (2), if shares of stock in a corporation
or similar interests in a trust or unincorporated association, shall
have a par or, if no-par, a stated value of not less than $100 each,
and shall be offered to the public at a price not less than the par or,
if no-par, stated value thereof; or (3), if securities issued only to
bona fide members or members-elect by a person organized and
operated exclusively for social, literary, artistic, athletic, or recre-
ational purposes, and not for pecuniary profit, no part of the net
earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder, member,
or individual, shall be in units of not less than $10 each; or (4), if
any other kind of security, shall be in units of not less than $500 each
and shall be offered to the public at a price not less than 90 percent
of the face amount thereof. Subscriptions to purchase any of the
foregoing shall be for one or more whole units thereof having the
denomination, par or stated value specified above with regard to each
respectively.
Rule 202. Exemption of Stock in a Corporation or Similar Inter-
ests in a Trust or Unincorporated Association.
Shares of stock in a corporation or similar interests in a trust or
unincorporated association¹ (except in cases where such securities
are offered in exchange for bona fide outstanding securities or claims.
and except royalty interests, working interests, free working inter-
ests, overriding royalty interests, oil and/or gas payments, and certifi-
cates of interest or participation in trusts or unincorporated associa-
tions, a substantial portion of the assets of which consists of, or it is
contemplated will consist of, oil or gas leasehold interests or rights, or
fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights) are added, pur-
suant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes of securities exempted
as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act, subject to the following terms
and conditions:
(a) That such securities shall not be offered to the public at a
price less than the par or, if no-par, stated value thereof: Provided,
however, That this linitation shall not apply to securities once issued
1 See also rules 200, 201, and 205.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
11
and reacquired by the issuer thereof for cash or its equivalent at
approxiniately the price at which such securities were then being
bought and sold in a bona fide market or were then being sold by
the issuer to the public.
(b) That the aggregate offering price to the public shall not exceed
the sum of $100,000: Provided, however, That the amount of the
offering shall be reduced by the amount of any other offerings of
securities (other than certificates of deposit) of the same issuer
which, within 1 year of the offering herein exempted, were exempted
from registration solely by reason of this or any other rule under
section 3 (b) of the Act, unless, or except to the extent that, such
other offerings have been withdrawn. The aggregate offering price
of securities offered at the market shall be taken as the product of
the number of units offered multiplied by the price per unit at which
the securities were sold on the first day of sale. The aggregate offer-
ing price of securities exchanged for bona fide outstanding securities
or claims shall be determined as provided in rule 205. The aggre-
gate offering price of assessable shares of stock shall be taken as the
sum of the offering price thereof determined as hereinbefore pro-
vided, and the aggregate amount of all assessments which may legally
be levied thereon.
(c) That the net proceeds, after deduction of all expenses of dis-
tribution, realized by the issuer from the securities herein exempted,
shall be not less than 75 percent of the aggregate offering price
thereof to the public, calculated as provided in paragraph (b) above.
(d) That the issuer shall provide, by such means as are legally
effective, that the holders of the securities specified in paragraphs
(A), (B), and (C) below shall not—
(1) Dispose of any such securities, or
(2) Be entitled to any distribution upon liquidation, whether
voluntary or involuntary, unless the holders of all securities who
paid cash therefor shall have been repaid an amount equal to the
net amount received by the issuer from the sale of such securities,
until the issuer shall have earned a net profit from operations for
a period of 1 year; securities to be so provided for being—
(A) Securities issued within 1 year to any promoter.or organizer
for services rendered in excess of the actual expenses of such pro-
moter or organizer.
(B) Securities issued to any promoter or organizer for property in
excess of the cash outlay for such property, if such property was
acquired by such promoter or organizer within 1 year prior to the
offering herein exempted.
(C) Securities issued to any promoter or organizer for property, if
such property was not acquired by such promoter or organizer within
1 year prior to the offering herein exempted, in excess of the fair cash

=== Page 60 === (confidence 1.00)
12
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
value of such property, provided, and to the extent, that such pro-
moter or organizer still holds the beneficial ownership of such
securities.
(e) That there shall be inserted in a conspicuous part of any pro-
spectus prepared or authorized by the issuer (or by a person control-
ling, controlled by, or under common control with, the issuer) offer-
ing for sale any security herein exempted, in type as large as that
used in the body thereof, the following statement:
These securities have not been registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission becanse snch securities are believed to be exempted from regis-
tration. But such exemption, if available, in no sense indicates approval by
the Commission of the merits of these securities.
(f) That three copies of any prospectus intended to comply with
the requirements of paragraph (g) below, which shall have been pre-
pared or authorized by the issuer (or by a person controlling, con-
trolled by, or under common control with, the issuer), shall have been
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (with a separate
letter of transmittal) prior to any use of such prospectus.
(g) That no person who sells any security exempted under this
rule shall be immune from the liabilities imposed upon such person
if the security were not so exempted, unless such person shall, prior to
the time of such sale, give the purchaser (unless such purchaser be
a financial institution or insurance company and be under State or
Federal supervision) a prospectus (which shall contain the statement
required under paragraph (e) above) briefly setting forth at least the
following:
(1) The name of the issuer and the State of its incorporation or
organization.
(2) The names and addresses of the issuer's directors (or persons
performing similar functions) and of its principal officers.
(3) The number and classes of shares authorized.
(4) The number and classes of shares outstanding and the con-
sideration for which such shares were issued (i. e., whether cash,
property or services, segregated as to each or with explanatory
footnote).
(5) The number and classes of shares now proposed to be offered.
(6) The amounts of each class of securities referred to in para-
graph (d) above, and the terms of the agreement or other arrange-
ment whereby the requirements of such paragraph (d) will be
complied with.
(7) The price per share and the minimum net amount to be real-
ized by the issuer from the sale of the shares proposed to be offered.
(8) The amount of the funded debt of the issuer.
(9) The outstanding debts of the issuer, excluding debt mentioned
in (8) above.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
13
(10) The name of each officer and employee of the issuer to be paid
or expected to be paid an aggregate amount (as salary, bonus, fees,
or any other form of remuneration) during the coming year in ex-
cess of $6,000: Provided, however, That the foregoing information
may be omitted in the case of an issuer which has made generally
available to its shareholders earnings statements covering a period of
at least 3 consecutive fiscal years prior to the offering of the securi-
ties herein exempted.
(11) If any property was acquired by the issuer, directly or indi-
rectly, from any promoter or past or present officer or director of
the issuer, or from any person possessing a substantial interest in
the issuer within the last 3 years or is to be presently so acquired, the
amount paid for such property by the issuer and the amount paid by
each such person above described for such property so far as known
or reasonably ascertainable; and, if any representation as to the pres-
ent worth of such property be made, the basis of such representation
and the identity and qualifications of any person on whose authority
such representation is made.
(12) A brief description of the capital assets of the issuer, speci-
fying the nature of its interest in such assets.
(13) A statement of any royalty, license, or contingent obligations
of the issuer.
Rule 203. Exemption of First Mortgage Notes and Bonds.
Subject to the conditions stated in this rule, the following securi-
ties are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes
of securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act:
Notes or bonds directly secured by first mortgage or first deed of
trust on real estate or on a leasehold* (other than oil, gas, or mining
leaseholds: Provided, That the grant of a right to remove oil, gas, or
other minerals shall not limit the exemption with reference to the first
mortgage on the surface), either—
(a) If such securities are in denominations of not less than $500
principal amount each, then subject to the terms and conditions pre-
scribed in rule 201: Provided, however, That the terms and condi-
tions of paragraph (e) of rule 201 shall not apply, if the terms and
conditions of (1), (2), and (3) of paragraph (b) below are satisfied;
or
(b) If such securities are in denominations of less than $500 prin-
cipal amount each, then subject to the terms and conditions pre-
scribed in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of rule 201, and also
to the following:
(1) That such securities shall be in denominations of not less than
$50 principal amount each.
See also rules 200 and 205.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 1.00)
14
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
(2) That three copies of any prospectus intended to comply with
the requirements of paragraph (3) below, which shall have been pre-
pared or authorized by the issuer (or by a person controlling, con-
trolled by, or under common control with, the issuer), shall have been
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (with a separate
letter of transmittal) prior to any use of such prospectus.
(3) That no person who sells any security exempted under this
rule shall be immane from the liabilities imposed upon such person
if the security were not so exempted, unless such person shall, prior
to the time of such sale, give the purchaser (unless such purchaser
be a financial institution or insurance company and be under State or
Federal supervision) a prospectus (which shall contain the statement
required under paragraph (d) of rule 201) briefly setting forth at
least the following:
(A) The location of the real estate or leasehold.
(B) The number and total amount of securities issued under the
mortgage or deed of trust, and, if securities in addition to those
actually issued are authorized to be issued under the mortgage or
deed of trust, a statement of the total amount so authorized to be
issued
(C) The amount of discounts, brokerage charges, fees (other than
property insurance) and all other expenses incurred by the borrower
in connection with the loan or charges for servicing such loan, briefly
itemized.
(D) The assessed value of the underlying property as of the time
of the issuance of the securities where the same is available, or, if
not available, then the assessed value nearest to such date.
(E) The aggregate taxes assessed against the underlying property
for the latest year prior to the issuance of such security for which
such assessment has been made, together with a statement of any
special assessments that may have been made against such property
but remain unpaid.
(F) The amount for which the underlying property was appraised
in connection with the mortgage or deed of trust, together with the
name of the appraiser and a statement of his interest in or connec-
tion with the issuer, or, if no appraisal was made in such connection,
the amount of any other appraisal known to the seller and the date
and circumstances under which such appraisal was made.
(G) The person or persons (not including agents of such persons)
who examined the title and or guaranteed such title.
(H) The names of the trustees, if any, under the mortgage or deed
of trust, and a statement as to their interest in, or connection with,
the issuer, if any.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
15
(I) The rights of the security holder, summarized, upon default in
payment of the interest or any other payment required to be made
under the terms of such security or the mortgage or deed of trust.
(J) The nature of any retirement, sinking fund, or amortization
provision.
(K) The amount of the insurance outstanding upon the underlying
property, its character, and the obligations of the mortgagor to
maintain such insurance.
(L) The purposes for which the underlying property is used or is
to be used, with a brief description of the nature of such property.
(M) In the case of a construction mortgage, a statement to that
effect together with a statement regarding the liability of the under-
lying security for prior mechanics', materialmen's, and similar liens
(the character and nature of which shall be briefly described), if any
such liability may exist, and a statement as to the availability of
funds to complete the structure.
(N) In the case of a security guaranteed by a corporation other
than the issuer, a summarized balance sheet of such corporation of a
date not more than 90 days prior to the issuance of such security,
which shall clearly set forth the contingent liabilities of such
corporation.
Rule 204. Exemption of Certificates of Deposit.
Certificates of deposit and similar securities are added, pursuant
to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes of securities exempted as
provided in section 3 (a) of the Act, subject to the following terms
and conditions:
(a) That the aggregate amount of all securities of any one issuer
the deposit of which is solicited shall not exceed $100,000. The ag-
gregate amount of such securities shall be their aggregate market
value as established by bona fide sales of any such securities within
a reasonable time prior to the commencement of solicitation; if, how-
ever, no such sale is known to have occurred, the aggregate amount
shall be one-third of the aggregate principal amount of such securi-
ties, or whichever is the greater of (1) one-third of the aggregate
par, or if no-par, stated value thercof, or (2) the aggregate book
value thereof.
(b) That although a certificate of deposit is exempted under this
rule, no person soliciting a deposit shall be immune from the liabili-
ties inposed upon such person if such certificates were not so
exempted unless
(1) Prior to or at the time of the solicitation of deposit (whether
or not the deposit agreement is accompanied by a "plan", as herein-
after defined), there slall be sent or given, or, in case of a general
solicitation by newspaper advertisement, there shall be offered, to
209058-40——4

=== Page 64 === (confidence 1.00)
16
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
any person solicited, a statement containing a summary of the prin-
cipal provisions of the deposit agreement with respect to—
(A) The circumstances under which any depositor may become
bound to any plan of reorganization, or plan for the complete or
partial liquidation of the issuer of the deposited securities, or plan
for the exchange or other sale of such securities (all hereinafter
referred to as a "plan"); and
(B) The terms and conditions upon which any right of depositors
to withdraw from the deposit agreement may be exercised, includ-
ing any charges thereupon payable, and a statement as to the gen-
eral purpose of such charges.
(2) Prior to or at the time of any solicitation of deposit under
a deposit agreement accompanied by a plan, or prior to or at the
time that opportunity to assent to or to dissent from any plan is
given on such terms that the person assenting or failing to dissent
within a limited time may be bound to such plan, there shall be
sent or given, or, in case of a general submission by newspaper ad-
vertisement, there shall be offered, to the person to whom a plan is
thus submitted—
(A) A copy of the plan, or a statement containing a summary of the
principal provisions of the plan with respect to—
1. The terms and provisions of all securities to be delivered in ex-
change or otherwise to be disposed of in connection with the plan; and
&. The terms on which all such securities are to be exchanged or
otherwise disposed of; and
3. The amount of, or the method of determination of, any fees pay-
able to any persons for preparing, submitting or recommending the
plan, to any depositary for acting as such, and to counsel for legal
services in connection with preparing or carrying out the plan, stating
the funds out of which such fees are proposed to be paid, and, if the
plan leaves such fees for subsequent determination and contains no
provision for their determination by an independent person, specifi-
cally so stating.
(B) If the issuer of any securities to be delivered in exchange pur-
suant to the plan has been in existence for a period of 12 months
or more prior to the first date of submission of the plan, the follow-
ing financial data concerning such issuer, so far as known to the
person submitting the plan, and so far as reasonably available if
such issuer is a person controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with, the person submitting the plan:
1. A balance sheet as of a date, if possible, not more than 90
days prior to such date of submission; and
2. A profit and loss statement of the issuer for the last fiscal
year prior to such date of submission; and

=== Page 65 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
17
3. If the close of the fiscal year is more than 6 months prior to
such date of submission, a profit and loss statement from such
closing date to the latest practicable date prior to such submission;
except that for an individual issuer, statements of assets and liabil-
ities and of income and expenditures may be substituted for the
foregoing; and except that for an issuer in receivership or bank.
ruptcy, statements of receipts and disbursements based upon the
available reports of the receiver or trustee may be substituted for
the profit and loss statements required by the foregoing.
(C) If the issuer of the outstanding securities to be received in ex-
change is another than the issuer of any securities to be delivered
in exchange, financial data concerning the issuer of such outstanding
securities as required under (B) above.
(D) If the issuer of any securities to be delivered in exchange will,
pursuant to the plan, acquire, directly or indirectly, a substantial
proportion of the assets which have been used in conducting any
business of another person (other than the person provided for in
(C) above) within 3 years prior to the first date of submission of
the plan, the following financial data of the last of such other per-
sons, so far as known to the person submitting the plan, and so far
as reasonably available if such other person is a person controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with, the person submitting
the plan:
1. A balance sheet, confined to the assets transferred and liabili-
ties assumed or with such assets and liabilities specially indicated
so far as practicable, as of a date, if possible, not more than 90
days prior to the date of transfer of such assets by such person, or
prior to the first date of submission, whichever date is earlier; and
2. A profit and loss statement, confined to income and expenses
attributable to the assets transferred or with such income and
expenses specially indicated as far as practicable, for the last
fiscal year which includes any part of the period of such person's
ownership of such assets, or, in the alternative, for the latest prac-
ticable period of 12 months prior to the first date of submission
which does include part of such period of ownership;
except that for an individual, statements of assets and liabilities and
of income and expenditures may be substituted for the foregoing;
and except that for a person in receivership or bankruptcy, state-
ments of receipts and disbursements based upon the available reports
of the receiver or trustee may be substituted for the profit and loss
statements required by the foregoing.
(E) If the issuer of any securities to be delivered in exchange is,
pursuant to the plan, to acquire securities issued by another person
(other than the person provided for in (C) above) which will give

=== Page 66 === (confidence 1.00)
18
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
it control of such other person or which will comprise 25 percent
or more of all assets to be acquired by it pursuant to the plan, the
following financial data concerning such other person, so far as
known to the person submitting the plan, and so far as reasonably
available if such other person is a person controlling, controlled by,
or under common control with, the person submitting the plan:
1. A balance sheet of such other person, as of a date, if possible,
not more than 90 days prior to the first date of submission; and
2. A profit and loss statement for the last fiscal year prior to the
first date of submission for which one is available;
except that for an individual, statements of assets and liabilities and
of income and expenditures may be substituted for the foregoing; and
except that for a person in receivership or bankruptcy, a statement of
receipts and disbursements based upon the available reports of the
receiver or trustee may be substituted for the profit and loss statement
required by the foregoing.
Rule 205. Exemption of Securities Exchanged for Outstanding
Securities.
Securities (other than certificates of deposit or voting trust cer-
tificates) exchanged for bona fide outstanding securities or claims
(whether or not a cash payment in connection with such exchange
be distributed to, or required from, the holders of such securities or
claims) are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes
of securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act, subject.
to the following terms and conditions:
(a) That the aggregate offering price to the public of all such
securities delivered in any exchanges by the issuer of the securities
herein exempted within a period of 1 year, which were exempted
from registration solely by reason of this or any other rule under sec-
tion 3 (b) of the Act, shall not exceed $100,000. The aggregate of-
fering price of any securities delivered in any exchange shall be
taken as the aggregate value of the consideration to be received for
such securities from the persons to whom the securities are ultimately
to be delivered, calculated as follows:
(1) In case the consideration to be received consists of securities
entirely of one class, the value shall be their aggregate market value
as established by bona fide sales of any such securities within a rea-
sonable time prior to the first date of submission of the plan em-
bracing the offer of exchange. If, however, no such sale is known
to have occurred, the value shall be one-third of the aggregate prin-
cipal amount of such securities, or whichever is the greater of (A)
one-third of the aggregate par. or, if no-par, stated value thereof, or
(B) the aggregate book value thereof.
(2) In case the consideration to be received consists only in part
of securities, or only in part of securities of one class, the value of

=== Page 67 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
19
these securities to be received in exchange which are preferred as to
liquidation rights over all other securities to be received in exchange
shall first be calculated as provided in (1) above and the value of
the other securities or other consideration shall be calculated by
multiplying the number of units of securities to be delivered in ex-
change therefor by the value of the units to be delivered in exchange
for the securities which are preferred as to liquidation rights.
(3) In case the consideration to be received in exchange consists
entirely of bona fide outstanding claims, the value of the claims shall
be taken as their face value, unless the obligor shall have been de-
clared insolvent in any receivership, bankruptey, or similar proceed-
ings, in which case the value of the claims shall be taken as one-third
of their face value.
(4) The value of all securities delivered in exchange, as calcu-
lated above, shall be increased or diminished, respectively, by the
amount of any cash payment demanded or distributed in connection
with their delivery.
(b) That, although a security is exempted under this rule, no per-
son offering such security for exchange shall be immune from the
liabilities imposed upon such person if the security were not so
exempted unless, prior to or at the time of any submission of the
plan embracing the offer of exchange pursuant to which the securi-
ties herein exempted are delivered, there shall be sent or given, or,
in the case of a general offer of exchange by newspaper advertise-
ment, there shall be offered, to any person to whom the plan is sub-
mitted, the documents and information required under subparagraph
(2) of paragraph (b) of rule 204 with respect to the submission of
a plan accompanying a deposit agreement.
Rule 206. Exemption of Voting Trust Certificates.
Voting trust certificates are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of
the Act, to the classes of securities exempted as provided in section
3 (a) of the Act, subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a) That the aggregate amount of all securities proposed to be
received subject to the voting trust agreement pursuant to which
the certificates are issued shall not exceed $100,000. The aggregate
amount of such securities shall be their aggregate market value as
established by bona fide sales of any such securities within a reason-
able time prior to the first offering of the voting trust certificates; if,
however, such securities are not then cutstanding, or if no such sale
is known to have occurred, their aggregate amount shall be the
aggregate principal amount of such securities or whichever is the
greater of (1) the aggregate par, or, if no-par, stated value thereof,
or (2) the aggregate book value thereof.
(b) That, although a voting trust certificate is exempted under
this rule, no person offering such certificate in exchange for any

=== Page 68 === (confidence 1.00)
20
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
security received or to be received subject to the voting trust agree-
ment shall be immune from the liabilities imposed upon such person
if the certificate were not so exempted unless, prior to, or at the time
of, the offer of the voting trust certificate, there shall be sent or
given, or in the case of a general offer by newspaper advertisement,
there shall be offered, to the person to whom the offer is made, a
statement containing—
(1) A summary of the provisions of the voting trust agreement
with respect to—
(A) The duration of the trust;
(B) The distribution of dividends, interest, or rights received on ac-
count of the securities covered by the trust agreement;
(C) The compensation, if any, of the trustees;
(D) The limitations, if any, upon their liability; and
(E) The selection of additional and successor trustees.
(2) The names, addresses, and principal occupations of the per-
sons selected as voting trustees.
(3) If, to the knowledge of the person making the offer, any of
the trustees has been designated because of his connection with, or
in order to represent, any group of security holders or persons inter-
ested in the issuer of the securities covered by the voting trust agree-
ment, a brief statement with respect to each such connection or
representation.
(4) If one or more of the trustees remain to be chosen, a brief
summary as to the provision of any agreement known to the person
making the offer with regard to the designation of such trustee.
Rule 207. Exemption of Certain Mineral Rights.
Subject to the conditions stated in this rule, the following secur.
ities are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes of
securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act:
With respect to any offers to sell, solicitations of offers to buy:
sales, or deliveries occurring before repeal of this provision (of
which at least ten days' notice by publication will be given by the
Commission), fractional undivided interests in mineral rights (other
than oil or gas rights) and any rights to participate in minerals
(other than oil or gas), or the proceeds thereof, produced by another
from a specified tract, subject, however, to the condition that the
aggregate amount of any interest or right of which the offered frac-
tional interest or right to participate is a part, shall not exceed
$100,000. Such amount shall be determined by applying the offering
price of the offeror claiming exemption to the base specified below:
(a) In the case of a fractional undivided interest, the base shall
be the aggregate interest of the owner in the chain of title by whom
the fractional interest is or was created in the size in which it is
offered.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
21
(b) In the case of a right to participate, the base shall be the sum
of any such rights (relating to the same tract) existing at the time
of the offering plus the rights included in the offering for which
exemption is claimed.
Rule 208. Exemption of Certain Securities Issued in Connection
With Reorganizations of Banks.
Securities which have been or are to be issued to depositors, credi-
tors, or stockholders of a bank pursuant to a plan of reorganization,
the effectiveness of which depended or will depend upon the approval
of the Comptroller of the Currency and the consent of stockholders
and/or depositors and other creditors, as provided by section 207
of the Act of March 9, 1933, amended May 20, 1933, are added,
pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Securities Act, to the classes of
securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act: Pro-
vided, howerer, That no issue of securities is or shall be exempted
hereby where the aggregate amount at which such issue was or is
offered to the public exceeded or exceeds $100,000.
Rule 209. Exemption of Certain Mortgages and Trust Agree-
ments.
Subject to the conditions stated in this rule, the following securi-
ties are added, pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Act, to the classes
of securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of the Act:
(a) Any mortgage, as defined in section 201 (a) of the National
Housing Act, as amended, which is insured by the Federal Housing
Administrator, pursuant to title II of said Act, involving a principal
obligation, as defined in section 203 (b) (2) of said Act, in an
amount not to exceed $16,000, regardless of the amount of other
obligations of the mortgagor, whether or not so insured.
(b) Any trust agreement under which a mortgagee approved by
the Federal Housing Administrator pursuant to section 203 (b) (1)
of the National Housing Act, as amended, holds in trust for another
person property which consists only of a single mortgage, as de-
scribed in paragraph (a) above, and such proceeds of payments by
the mortgagor as the mortgagee-trustee, pursuant to such trust agree-
ment, retains as cash and/or invests only in property which is a
legal investment for trust funds under applicable State law.
Rule 210. General Exemption of Securities Sold for Cash in Com-
pliance with State Law.
(a) Any securities offered to the public for cash (other than frac-
tional undivided interests in oil or gas rights as defined in rule 300
and certificates of interest as defined in rule 360) shall be exempt
from the operation of the Act to the same extent as the classes of
securities specified in section 3 (a) of the Act, subject to the following
terms and conditions:

=== Page 70 === (confidence 1.00)
22
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
(1) The aggregate offering price of (A) the securities proposed
to be offered, (B) all other securities of the issuer currently being
offered under regulation A, and (C) all securities of the issuer pre-
viously sold or subscribed for pursuant to an offering under regula-
tion A commenced within one year prior to the commencement of the
proposed offering, shall not exceed $100,000. The aggregate offering
price of securities offered at the market shall be taken as the product
of the number of units offered multiplied by the price per unit at
which the securities were sold on the first day of sale. The aggre-
gate offering price of securities exchanged for bona fide outstanding
securities or claims shall be determined as provided in rule 205. The
aggregate offering price of assessable shares of stock shall be taken
as the sum of the offering price thereof determined as hereinbefore
provided, and the aggregate amount of all assessments which may
legally be levied thereon.
(2) No security shall be offered, sold, or delivered after sale in
any State of Territory under the exemption provided by this rule
except in compliance with all State or Territorial laws relating to
the registration, qualification, and licensing of securities and dealers
which are applicable to the transaction of offering, sale, and delivery
after sale or which would be applicable if such transaction were
effected entirely within such State or Territory.
 (3) No security shall be offered, sold, or delivered after sale in the
District of Columbia under the exemption provided by this rule.
(4) No offering shall be made under the exemption provided by
this rule until the issuer shall have filed with the Commission, at
Washington, D. C., a letter of notification containing the following
information: (A) the name and address of the issuer and of each
principal underwriter; (B) the title of the issue, the amount pro-
posed to be offered, and the proposed offering price per unit and
aggregate offering price of the securities proposed to be offered;
(C) a list of the States and Territories in which it is proposed to
offer the securities; and (D) the title of issue of all securities of the
issuer previously sold or subscribed for pursuant to an offering un-
der regulation A commenced within one year prior to the commence-
ment of the proposed offering, indicating the aggregate sale or sub-
scription price of such securities. No offering shall be made under
the exemption provided by this rule in any State or Territory which
was not listed in the original letter of notification until the issuer
shall have filed a supplementary letter stating the name of such
additional State or Territory.
(5) There shall be inserted in a conspicuous part of any written
communication prepared or authorized by the issuer (or by a per-
son controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
23
issuer) offering for sale any security herein exempted, in type as
large as that used in the body thereof, the following statement:
These securities have not been registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission because such securities are believed to be exempted from registra-
tion. But such exemption, if available, in no sense indicates approval by the
Commission of the merits of these securities.
However, the above statement need not be included in any com-
munication (A) which merely states from whom a written pros-
pectus may be obtained and, in addition, does no more than identify
the security, state the price thereof, and state by whom orders will
be executed, or (B) which is made to a person who concurrently
receives, or previously has received, a written communication relating
to the same securities and containing such required statement.
(6) Ten copies of each written communication prepared or au.
thorized by the issuer (or by a person controlling, controlled by, or
under common control with the issuer) which is proposed to be used
at the commencement of the public offering, or intended to be sent
or delivered thereafter to more than ten persons, shall be filed with
the Commission in Washington, D. C., prior to any use thereof.
(7) No security of the issuer shall be currently offered under the
exemption provided by rule 200, 201, 202, 203, or 206.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this rule, transactions
effected in violation of any term or condition contained in para-
graph (a) shall not operate to defeat the exemption as to other trans-
actions which are effected by a person not directly or indirectly re-
sponsible for such violation, and which, except for such violation,
conform to all applicable terms and conditions. In any case, the
violation of any term or condition contained in paragraph (a) shall
not operate to defeat the exemption as to any person who has, after
reasonable investigation, reasonable grounds to believe, and does
believe, that all applicable terms and conditions have been satisfied.
209958—405

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATION B
EXEMPTIONS RELATING TO FRACTIONAL UNDIVIDED
INTERESTS IN OIL OR GAS RIGHTS
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
Rule 300. Definitions of Terms Used in Regulation B.
When used in regulation B—
(a) The term "fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights"
includes landowners' royalty interests, overriding royalty interests,
working interests, participating interests, and oil or gas payments,
as defined in subdivisions (b) to (f), inclusive, of this rule.
(b) The term "landowners' royalty interests" means fractional
undivided interests in the royalty reserved by a landowner or fee
owner upon the creation of an oil or gas lease.
(c) The term "overriding royalty interests" means fractional undi-
vided interests or rights of participation in the oil or gas, or in the
proceeds from the sale of the oil or gas, produced fron a specitied
tract, which are limited in duration to the terms of an existing lease
and which are not subject to any portion of the expense of develop-
ment, operation, or maintenance.
(d) The ternm "working interests" means fractional undivided in-
terests in an oil or gas leasehold which are subject to any portion of
the expense of development, operation, or maintenance.
(e) The term "participating interests" means fractional undivided
interests or rights of participation in the oil or gas, or in the pro-
ceeds from the sale of oil or gas, produced from a specified tract,
which are limited in duration to the terms of an existing lease and
which are subject to any portion of the expense of development,
operation, or maintenance.
(f) The term "oil or gas payments" means fractional undivided
interests or rights of participation in the oil or gas, or in the proceeds
from the sale of oil or gas, produced from a specified tract, and which
are limited to a maximuni amount fixed in barrels of oil, cubic feet
of gas, or dollars.
(g) The term "offeror" means any issuer of, underwriter of, or
dealer in, any of the interests or rights defined in subdivisions (b) to
(f), inclusive, of this rule, or any other person who issues, offers, or
sells, any such interests or rights.
24

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
25
(h) The term "offering sheet" means any of the schedules from
A to F, inclusive, the form of which is prescribed by the Commis-
sion, when appropriately completed so as to comply with the require-
ments of regulation B, and particularly rule 330 thereof.
ARTICLE 2. EXEMPTIONS AVAILABLE TO FRACTIONAL UNDIVIDED
InterestS IN OIL OR GaS RigHtS UndeR
SECTION 3 (b) OF THE ACT
Rule 310. Limitation upon Exemption.
Pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
but subject to the terms and conditions prescribed by regulation B
and the rules contained therein, fractional undivided interests in
oil or gas rights, as defined in rule 300, are added to the classes of
securities exempted as provided in section 3 (a) of such Act; but
no issue or offering, of which any interest sought to be exempted
hereunder is a part, shall be exempted under regulation B where the
aggregate amount at which such issue or offering is issued, offered,
or sold, exceeds $100,000.
Rule 312. Exemption not Available to Offeror, if Unregistered
Dealer.
If any offeror of any of the fractional undivided interests in oil
or gas rights defined in rule 300 is, in fact, a "dealer", as such term
is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the exemption pro-
vided by regulation B shall not be available, and, such offeror shall
not be relieved from the liability which, in the absence of the exemp-
tion provided by regulation B, would be imposed upon him because
the security offered for sale, or sold, was unregistered, unless such
offeror is, at the time of each offer to sell, and at the time of each
sale, duly registered as a dealer under section 15 of said Act.
Rule 314. Exception to Availability of Exemption.
Notwithstanding any provision of regulation B, or any rule there-
under, no exemption shall be available for any issue, offering,
or sale, of overriding roy..lty interests, working interests, partici-
pating royalty interests, oil payments, gas payments, or oil and
gas payments, if the operating lessee or lessees then own, unencum-
bered, or if it appears that the operating lessee or lessees will own,
unencumbered, in his, or their, name, or names, upon completion of
the sale of the issue or offering sought to be exempted hereunder,
less than a 40 percent working interest in the tract, or tracts, of
land involved, or less than 40 percent of 100 percent of all oil, gas,

=== Page 74 === (confidence 1.00)
26
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
and other hydrocarbon substances produced, or to be produced,
from the tract, or tracts, of land involved.
As used in this rule, the term "operating lessee or
lessees" shall include the lessee of record actually engaged in
developing and operating the tract, or tracts, involved, and
all other owners of working interests who are regularly
engaged in the business of exploring for, or producing, oil
or gas, and who have consented in writing to the develop-
ment and operation of said tract, or tracts, by such lessee
of record.
ARTICLE 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFEROR SEEKING EXEMPTION
Rule 320. Conditions to Exemption and Relief from Liability
for Non-registration.
The exemption provided by regulation B shall be available, and,
an offeror of any of the fractional undivided interests in oil or
gas rights defined in rule 300 shall be relieved from the liability
which, in the absence of the exemption provided by regulation B,
would be imposed upon him because the security offered for sale,
or sold, was unregistered, only upon condition—
(a) That prior to any offer to sell any security sought to be
exempted hereunder, the offeror, or some person acting on his behalf,
shall file with the Commission four copies of an offering sheet
accurately describing such security and complying with the require-
ments of rule 330.
(b) That the offeror, at the time of the initial offer to sell any
security sought to be exempted hereunder, shall deliver, or cause
to be delivered, to every person solicited to buy, a copy of the offer-
ing sheet then on file with the Commission (as amended, if amended)
accurately describing such security and complying with the require-
ments of rule 330.
The term "offer to sell", as used in subdivision (b) of
this rule, shall not be deemed to include a notice, circular,
advertisement, letter, or communication published in any
newspaper, or sent through the mails, or by means of any
instrument of transportation, or communication in inter-
state commerce, or broadcast by radio, if such notice, cir-
cular, advertisement, letter, communication, or radio broad-
cast states only from whom an offering sheet may be ob-
tained, and, in addition, does no more than identify the
security, state the price thereof, and state by whom orders
will be executed.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
27
(c) That the offering sheet referred to in subdivisions (a) and (b)
of this rule is fully effective in all respects at the time of each initial
offer to sell and at the time of the making of each contract for the
sale of any security described therein.
(d) That prior to the making of each contract of sale with, and
prior to the payment of any part of the consideration by, the pur-
chaser of any security sought to be exempted hereunder, the offeror
shall deliver to each purchaser evidence satisfactory to each such
purchaser of the validity of the title which he is to receive and
upon which the value of his interest depends.
(e) That not later than fifteen days after the making of each
contract for the sale of any interest sought to be exempted here-
under, the offeror making such sale shall file with the Commission
a written report of such sale on form 1-G, which shall be kept
confidential, unless the Commission shall order otherwise.
Rule 322. Transactions Conditionally Excepted.
Compliance with rule 320 shall not be required in any of the
following types of transactions, provided exact copies of any pro-
spectus, notice, circular letter, or circular communication sent through
the mails, or by means of any instrument of transportation or
communication in interstate commerce, to any of the persons, cor-
porations, or trusts designated in subdivisions (b), (c), and (d)
of this rule, preliminary to the delivery of, or in lieu of, an offering
sheet, or designed to communicate any of the information required
in any offering sheet, are simultaneously filed with the Commission:
(a) Offers or sales to a person regularly engaged in the business
of exploring for, or producing, oil or gas.
(b) Offers or sales to a person duly registered as a dealer under
section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, who
is resident, or, if a partnership or corporation, maintains a bona fide
place of business within the same State or Territory within which the
oil or gas property involved in such sale is located.
(c) Offers or sales to a person duly registered as a dealer under
section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, who is
not resident, or, if a partnership or corporation, does not maintain a
bona fide place of business within the same State or Territory within
which the oil or gas property involved in such sale is located, pro-
vided and upon condition that the offeror making the sale in question
shall, not later than fifteen days after making the sale of the interest,
file with the Commission a written report of such sale on form 2-G,
which shall be kept confidential unless the Commission shall order
otherwise.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
28
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
(d) Offers or sales to a corporation or trust, not registered as a
dealer under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, the assets of which consist principally of oil or gas rights,
and stock of which, or certificates of interest or participation in
which, are at the time registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, provided and upon condition that the offeror making the
sale in question shall, not later than fifteen days after making the
sale of the interest, file with the Commission a written report of
such sale on form 2-G, which shall be kept confidential unless the
Commission shall order otherwise.
Rule 324. Filing of Offering Sheets on Behalf of Other Persons.
An offering sheet may be filed with the Commission for, and on
behalf of, other persons, provided all such other persons are duly
registered as dealers under section 15 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and upon condition that signed lists con-
taining the names and addresses of all such persons are filed with the
Commission in duplicate prior to any use of such offering sheet by
such other persons; and the Commission may refuse to accept for
filing any list which contains the name of any person who is not so
registered.
Rule 326. Liability for Unauthorized Use of Offering Sheet.
Any person using an offering sheet in connection with an offer to
sell any security described therein shall not be entitled to the exemp-
tion provided by regulation B, and, shall not be relieved from any
liability which, in the absence of the exemption provided by regula-
tion B, would be imposed upon such person because such security was
unregistered, unless such offering sheet has previously been filed
with the Commission by, or for, and on behalf of, such person, and
is at the time of its use fully effective.
Rule 328. Restricting Use of Estimations not Included in Offering
Sheets.
A person using any estimation of the amount of oil or gas recov-
erable from the tract involved, or from any other tract for compara-
tive purposes, in connection with an offer to sell any fractional
undivided interest in oil or gas rights, defined in rule 300, shall not
be entitled to the exemption provided by regulation B, and, shall not
be relieved from any liability which, in the absence of the exemption
provided by regulation B, would be imposed upon such person be-
cause such security was unregistered, unless such estimation is in-
cluded in, and furnished as part of, an offering sheet accurately
describing such security: Provided, however, That the provisions of
this rule shall not be applicable in the case of a sale to a person
regularly engaged in the business of exploring for, or producing,
oil or gas.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
29
ARTICLE 4. FORM OF OFFERING SHEETS
Rule 330. Form and Contents of Offering Sheets.
The offering sheets required by regulation B, and particularly rule
820 thereof, shall be filed with the Commission substantially in the
form prescribed by the Commission in the schedules specifically enu-
merated in subdivision (g) of this rule, which schedules, as revised
June 1, 1939, are, by reference, hereby incorporated in, and made a
part of, this rule.
(a) The offering sheet shall contain in substance, in the prescribed
sequence, the statements, information, and factual data required by
the appropriate schedule and shall be responsive to the requirements
of each and every item and exhibit of the appropriate schedule.
(b) If an item of required information cannot be furnished, or
there is reason to doubt the accuracy of all the information which
has been acquired with regard thereto, the answer to the item may
be omitted, but a full explanation of the reason for the omission must
be given. In no case, however, may there be omitted on this ground
information which is a matter of public record in the State or Terri-
tory in which the tract is located.
(c) All information contained in an offering sheet, including ex-
hibits, shall be as of a date not more than 110 days prior to the
delivery of the offering sheet to the purchaser, and also as of a date
not more than 110 days prior to the making of each contract for
the sale of any security described therein.
(d) Each offering sheet filed with the Commission shall be executed
in the manner prescribed by the Commission and shall bear the origi-
nal signature of the person making the filing.
(e) Each offering sheet used, distributed, or delivered by the per-
son making the filing shall be a copy of the offering sheet filed with
the Commission (as amended, if amended).
(f) Each offering sheet used, distributed, or delivered by a person
other than the person filing same with the Commission shall be a
copy of the offering sheet filed with the Commission (as amended,
if amended). It shall also be executed in the manner prescribed
by the Commission, and shall bear the original signature of the
person so using, distributing, or delivering same.
(g) The schedules hereinbefore referred to, and which are, by
reference, hereby incorporated in, and made a part of, this rule, are
as follows:
(1) Schedule A. If the interests offered are producing land-
owners' royalty interests.
(2) Schedule B. If the interests offered are non-producing land-
owners' royalty interests.
(3) Schedule C. If the interests offered are producing overriding
interests, working interests, or participating interests.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
30
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
(4) Schedule D. If the interests offered are non-producing over-
riding interests, working interests, or participating interests.
(5) Schedule E. If the interests offered are oil payments, gas
payments, or oil and gas payments to be made from tracts repre-
sented to be producing at the time of the offering.
(6) Schedule F. If the interests offered are oil payments, gas
payments, or oil and gas payments to be made from tracts repre-
sented to be non-producing at the time of the offering.
Specimen copies of schedules A to F, inclusive, may be procured from
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D. C., upon
request.
Rule 332. Representations in Offering Sheets.
Every offering sheet, whether it does, or does not, comply with
the requirements of rule 330, shall be deemed to have been filed or
used or distributed or delivered upon the express condition that—
(a) All statements or information contained in divisions I and II
of any offering sheet, or in any exhibit attached thereto or incor-
porated therein, shall constitute continuing representations, by the
person filing such offering sheet to any person who may, in reliance
upon a copy of such offering sheet, purchase any interest described
therein, that the statements contained in divisions I and II thereof
and in the exhibits attached thereto are substantially correct and
that no material fact has been omitted, the inclusion of which would
reasonably appear necessary, in the light of the circumstances, to
make the information contained therein not misleading to the
purchaser.
(b) All statements or information contained in any offering sheet,
or in any exhibit attached thereto or incorporated therein, shall con-
stitute continuing representations by any offeror who shall deliver,
or cause such offering sheet to be delivered, to any person who may,
in reliance upon a copy of such offering sheet, purchase any interest
described therein from, or through, such offeror, that such offering
sheet is a true copy of an offering sheet filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission in compliance with the rules and regula-
tions of the Commission on behalf of such offeror, that such offeror
has reasonable grounds to believe, and does believe, that the state-
ments contained therein are substantially correct, and, that no mate-
rial fact known to the offeror has been omitted, the inclusion of
which would reasonably appear necessary, in the light of the cir-
cumstances, to make the information contained therein not mislead.
ing to the purchaser.
(c) If an estimation of recoverable oil or gas, or a geological
report made by someone other than the person filing the offering
sheet, is included in the offering sheet, the contents thereof shall

=== Page 79 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
31
not be regarded as a representation by the person filing the offering
sheet, provided the person filing the offering sheet has reason to
believe, and does believe, that the author of such estimation or report
possesses the qualifications and integrity necessary to make such esti-
mation or report, and provided the person filing the offering sheet
does not know or believe the estimation or report to be untrue or
misleading in any respect.
Rule 334. Interests Involving Non-contiguous Tracts.
Oil or gas interests involving non-contiguous tracts of land may
be included in the same offering sheet only upon condition that—
(a) All intcrests hereby offered for sale are producing landown-
ers' royalty interests.
(b) All tracts so involved are currently producing oil or gas and
are located wholly within the limits of the same oi or gas pool.
(c) All tracts so involved are being currently operated by the
same operator under an oil and gas lease executed by one or more
landowners, each of whom was, at the time of the execution of said
oil and gas lease, the owner of a fee or mineral interest in each of
the tracts involved.
(d) The purchaser of any such interest is entitled to the same
fractional portion of the oil and gas produced from each tract covered
by said lease, irrespective of the specific tract to which such purchaser
may receive a conveyance and irrespective of the specific tract from
which such production may be obtained.
ARTICLE 5. SUSPENSION ORDERS AND THEIR EFFECT
Rule 340. Suspension Orders.
(a) If, at any time within seven days after the date upon which
an offering sheet is received by the Commission for filing, the Com-
mission has reasonable grounds to believe that such offering sheet is
incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, or includes an
untrue statement of a material fact, or omits to state any material
fact necessary to make the statements therein contained not mislead-
ing, or fails to comply with any of the requirements of regulation B,
the Commission may enter an order temporarily suspending the
effectiveness of the filing of such offering sheet pending a final
hearing thereon. The Commission shall, promptly upon the entry
of any such order, give notice to the person filing such offering sheet:
(1) that such order has been entered, and (2) that the Commission
will, upon receipt of a written request from the person filing such
offering sheet, set the matter for hearing, within twenty days after
the receipt of such request, at a place to be designated by the Com-
mission. Upon receipt of any such request the Commission will

=== Page 80 === (confidence 1.00)
32
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
forthwith set the matter for hearing accordingly, and will promptly
give notice of the time and place thereof. If the Commission does
not set the matter for hearing upon a date within such twenty-day
period, the order for suspension then in effect shall, upon expiration
of said twenty-day period, expire and be of no further force or effect.
Such hearing may be continued from time to time for cause, but if
the Commission does not enter an order permanently suspending the
effectiveness of such offering sheet within sixty days after such
hearing is finally closed, the suspension order then in effect shall,
upon expiration of said sixty-day period, likewise expire and be of
no further force or effect.
(b) If, at any time after notice and opportunity for hearing,
either at the written request of a person filing an offering sheet or
upon motion of the Commission, the Commission finds that an offer-
ing sheet is incomplete or inaccurate in any material respects, or
includes an untrue statement of a material fact, or omits to state
any material facts necessary to make the statements therein contained
not misleading, or fails to comply with any of the requirements of
regulation B, the Commission may enter an order permanently sus-
pending the effectiveness of the filing of such offering sheet, or, if an
order has been entered pursuant to subdivision (a) of this rule, and
is still in effect, may make the suspension effected by such order
permanent.
(c) If, before the hearing with respect thereto is finally closed,
the Commission finds that an offering sheet has been amended to
cure the objections specified in any temporary suspension order
entered pursuant to subdivision (a) of this rule, or specified in any
notice given pursuant to subdivision (b) of this rule, the Commis-
sion will thereupon terminate the proceeding which may have been
instituted by any such temporary suspension order, or by any such
notice, and give notice of such action to the person who filed the
offering sheet.
(d) All notices required by this rule shall be given to the person
who filed the offering sheet, and shall be given either by personal
service, or by registered mail, or confirmed telegraphic notice,
addressed to such person at the address given in the offering sheet.
Rule 342. Effect of Suspension Order.
An offering sheet complying with the requirements of regulation
B, and particularly rule 330, shall become effective on the eighth
day after the date upon which it is received by the Commission for
filing, except that—
(a) If the Commission shall enter an order under rule 340 (a)
suspending the effectiveness of the filing of such offering sheet within
seven days after the date upon which it is received by the Commis-
sion for filing, the filing thereof shall not become effective for any

=== Page 81 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
33
purpose whatever until such proceeding is terminated, or such order
for suspension expires.
(b) If the Commission shall at any time give notice of a hearing
or enter an order under rule 340 (b) suspending the effectiveness of
the filing of such offering sheet, said offering sheet shall not be
effective for any purpose whatever subsequent to the giving of such
notice or during the period of such suspension.
ARTICLE 6. WITHDRAWAL, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION OF
OFFERING SHEETS
Rule 350. Withdrawal of Offering Sheet.
Any person who has filed an offering sheet may apply to the Com-
mission for an order consenting to the withdrawal of same, provided
none of the securities described in said offering sheet have been sold,
and such person shall so represent to the Commission in writing.
The Commission will enter an order consenting thereto unless it shall
find that sales of the securities described in said offering sheet have,
in fact, been made.
Rule 352. When Offering Sheet may be Amended.
Any person who has filed an offering sheet may, subject to the
provisions of rule 354, file amendments thereto, but only under the
following conditions and in the following instances:
(a) In the event none of the securities referred to in said offering
sheet have been sold and the person filing the offering sheet shall so
represent to the Commission in writing.
(b) In the event a suspension order is in effect and the hearing
with respect thereto has not been finally closed.
(c) In the event no suspension order is in effect, but notice has
been given by the Commission pursuant to rule 340 (b), and the
hearing with respect thereto has not been finally closed.
Rule 354. How Offering Sheet may be Amended.
Any amendment to an offering sheet shall be filed in accordance
with this rule and shall become and be effective only as hereinafter
provided:
(a) The amendment shall be filed with the Commission, in quad-
ruplicate, and each copy shall bear the signature of the person who
filed the offering sheet as well as every other person whose estimations
or statements are modified or affected by such amendment.
(b) An amendment shall be made either by filing or substituting a
wholly corrected offering sheet, or by filing or substituting entire
exhibits or pages, as amended.
(c) Any amendment complying with the requirements of this rule
shall become effective at such time as the Commission may order.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 1.00)
34
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Rule 356. Voluntary Termination of Effectiveness of Offering
Sheet.
Any person who has filed an offering sheet may apply to the Com-
mission for an order terminating the effectiveness of the filing
thereof, provided such person shall tile with the Commission an affi-
davit that all persons on whose behalf said offering sheet has been
filed, to whom copies thereof have been delivered (naming all such
persons), have been notified in writing of the intention to terminate
the effectiveness of said offering sheet. The Commission will enter
an order terminating the effectiveness of such offering sheet unless
it shall find that such affidavit is insufficient, or that such notice of
intention has not been given, as required, or it is not appropriate in
the public interest so to do.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 1.00)
REGULATION B-T
EXEMPTIONS RELATING TO INTERESTS IN AN OIL ROYALTY TRUST
OR SIMILAR TYPE OF TRUST OR UNINCORPORATED ASSOCIATION
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
Rule 360. Definitions of Terms Used in Regulation B-T.
When used in regulation B-T the following terms shall have the
meanings indicated:
Certificate of interest.—The term "certificate of interest" means
every security as defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
which represents or evidences any interest or right of participation in
any trust or unincorporated association, a substantial portion of the
assets of which consists of, or it is contemplated will consist of, oil or
gas leasehold interests or rights, or fractional undivided interests in
oil or gas rights.
Fiduciary.—The term "fiduciary" means every. trustee or other
person with whom any part of the assets or underlying securities of
any trust is deposited, or in whom title thereto is vested for the benefit
of holders of certificates of interest.
Mark-up.—The term "mark-up" means the excess of the actual cost
to the trust of any underlying security acquired by the trust from a
sponsor of the trust, over (1) the lowest actual cost of such under-
lying security to any sponsor of the trust, or (2) the market value
of such underlying security at the time of its deposit in the trust,
whichever is lower.
Prospectus.—The term "prospectus" means a prospectus meeting
the requirements of regulation B-T, and particularly rule 376 thereof.
Sponsor.—The term "sponsor" means any person who performs the
acts or assumes the duties of depositor or manager pursuant to the
provisions of the trust indenture, or otherwise acts as a promoter of
the trust, and includes any person directly or indirectly controlling
or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with,
any such depositor, manager, or promoter.
Trust.—The term "trust" means unincorporated collateral trusts,
unincorporated investment trusts, unincorporated associations, or any
other unincorporated legal entity.
35

=== Page 84 === (confidence 1.00)
36
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Trust indenture.—The term "trust indenture" means the inden-
ture or other agreement or instrument under which the trust is cre-
ated or under which a certificate of interest is, or is to be, issued.
Underlying security.—The term "underlying security" means all
oil or gas leasehold interests or rights, all fractional undivided inter-
ests in oil or gas rights, and all securities and other assets comprising
the corpus of the trust estate, or the investment portfolio of a trust.
ARTICLE 2. EXEMPTIONS AVAILABLE TO CERTIFICATES OF INTEREST UNDER
SECTION 3 (b) OF THE ACT
Rule 362. Limitation Upon Exemption.
Pursuant to section 3 (b) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
but subject to the terms and conditions prescribed by regulation B-T,
certificates of interest, as defined in rule 360, are added to the
classes of securities exempted by section 3 (a) of such Act; but no
issue of which any certificate of interest sought to be exempted here-
under is part shall be exempted under regulation B-T, where the
aggregate amount at which such issue is offered exceeds $100,000.
Rule 364. Contractual Conditions to Availability of Exemption.
The exemption provided by regulation B-T shall be available to an
issuer, underwriter or dealer only upon condition—
(a) That prior to, or simultaneously with, the filing of the pro-
spectus, the filing of which is requred by rule 370 (a), the issuer
shall file with the Commission three copies of the trust indenture.
(b) That the trust indenture provides that it may be modified, al-
tered, or amended only with the written consent of persons owning
not less than a majority in face amount of the certificates of interest
issued and outstanding at the time of modification, alteration, or
amendment.
(c) That the trust indenture provides that no sale, assignment,
transfer, conveyance, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, or alienation
of any part of the underlying securities shall be effected, without the
written consent at that time of persons owning not less than a majority
in face amount of the certificates of interest issued and outstanding,
unless the cost price of such underlying securities to the trust, to-
gether with the cost price of any other underlying securities which
within the preceding 12-month period have been sold, assigned, trans-
ferred, conveyed, mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise
alienated, is less than 10 percent of the aggregate cost price of the un-
derlying securities held by the trust immediately prior to such sale,
assignment, transfer, conveyance, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, or
alienation.
(d) That if the trust indenture provides for the redemption of any
of the certificates of interest, it shall provide further that all certifi-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
37
cates of interest issued or outstanding at the time of each redemption
shall be redeemed proportionately.
(e) That the trust indenture provides that the total amount of
monthly, annual, or other charges by, or payments to the fiduciaries
and sponsors of the trust, either directly or indirectly, shall not, for
any consecutive 12-month period, exceed a sum equivalent to 71½ per-
cent of the gross earnings to the trust for such period.
(f) That the trust indenture provides that each fiduciary shall by
statute be subject to the supervision of some Federal, State, or terri-
torial banking commission, or some body or official having similar
supervisory powers.
(g) That the mark-up of each underlying security acquired by the
trust from a sponsor of the trust, shall not exceed 30 percent of the
price at which such underlying security is sold to the trust.
(h) That the offering price of any certificate of interest shall not
be in excess of the cost price to the trust of the underlying securities
against which such certificate of interest has been, or will be, issued.
ARTICLE 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUER, UNDERWRITER, OR DEALER
SEEKING EXEMPTION
Rule 370. Procedural Conditions to Exemption and Relief from
Liability for Non-Registration.
The exemption provided by regulation B-T shall be available to
an issuer, underwriter, or dealer only upon condition—
(a) That prior to any offer to sell any security sought to be ex-
empted hereunder, the issuer shall sign and file with the Commis-
sion, at Washington, D. C., three copies of a prospectus describing
such security and complying with the requirements of rule 376.
(b) That such issuer, underwriter, or dealer, at the time of each
initial offer by him to sell to any person any security sought to be
exempted hereunder, shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to such
person a copy of an effective prospectus (as amended, if amended)
describing such security and complying with the requirements of
rule 376: Provided, however, That the term "offer to sell," as used
in this paragraph (b), shall not be deemed to include a notice, circu-
lar, advertisement, letter or communication, written or by radio,
if such notice, circular, advertisement, letter, or communication states
from whom a prospectus may be obtained, and, in addition, does no
more than identify the security, state the price thereof, and state by
whom orders will be executed.
(c) That such issuer, underwriter, or dealer, at the time of mak-
ing any contract of sale for any security, sought to be exempted here-
under, shall deliver or cause to be delivered to each purchaser a copy
of an effective prospectus (as amended, if amended) describing such

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
38
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
security and complying with the requirements of rule 376 unless
a copy of such prospectus shall have been delivered to such purchaser
at the time of the initial offer to sell.
(d) That the prospectus referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), and
(c) of this rule is effective at the time of each initial offer to sell
by such issuer, underwriter, or dealer, and at the time such issuer,
underwriter, or dealer makes each contract for the sale of, any
security described therein.
ARTICLE 4. FORM OF PROSPECTUS
Rule 376. Form and Content of Prospectus.
Every prospectus required to be filed with the Commission by regu-
lation B-T, and particularly rule 370 thereof, shall contain the
following statements and information, and shall be responsive to the
requirements of each and every item hereof:
(a) The following statements shall be inserted in a conspicuous
place on the cover or first page of each prospectus, in type fully as
large as that used elsewhere in the prospectus:
THESE SECURITIES HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED WITH
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION BECAUSE
SUCH SECURITIES ARE BELIEVED TO BE EXEMPTED FROM
REGISTRATION, UNDER REGULATION B-T OF THE COM-
MISSION'S GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, BUT SUCH
EXEMPTION, IF AVAILABLE, IN NO SENSE INDICATES AP-
PROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY THE COMMISSION OF THE
MERITS OF THESE SECURITIES.
THE DATE OF THIS PROSPECTUS IS
19._.. THIS PROSPECTUS SHALL NOT BE EFFECTIVE
AFTER
19
The date of the prospectus shall be the date as of which the informa-
tion required to be set forth in the prospectus under rule 376 is
given, and the date on which the prospectus is no longer effective shall
be a date not later than 7 months from the date of the prospectus.
(b) If a corporation performs the acts, or assumes the duties, of
depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust indenture,
or otherwise acts as a promoter of the trust, state the name and address
of the principal office of each such corporation, the name of the State
or Territory under the law of which each such corporation was in-
corporated or organized, the date of such incorporation or organiza-
tion, and whether each such corporation is in good standing.
(c) If a person other than a corporation performs the acts, or as-
sumes the duties, of depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions
of the trust indenture, or otherwise acts as a promoter of the trust,
state the names and residence addresses of all such persons.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
39
(d) The following information shall be stated immediately follow-
ing the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
rule
(1) The minimum price at which the certificates of interest.
may, or will, be offered or sold to the public.
(2) The maximum commission or remuneration or discount
(per each unit of interest) which will be paid or allowed to, or be
received by, any underwriter, dealer, agent, or representative for
selling, distributing, or otherwise disposing of the securities.
(3) Whether the trust possesses, or contemplates the acquisi-
tion of, any assets. If so, (A) describe such assets specifying the
right, title, and interest of the trust in and to each item; (B) if
such assets have been, or are to be, acquired by the trust from any
sponsor of the trust, state the date of acquisition by, and the cost
of each such item to, such sponsor of the trust; and (C) state the
date of acquisition by and the cost of such item to the trust.
(4) The amount of any mark-up and the names and residence-
addresses of all persons who will, directly or indirectly, partici-
pate in, or receive, any part or portion of such mark-up.
(5) The amount of receipts and disbursements of the trust
for each of the last 6 calendar months prior to the date of the
prospectus, or, if the trust has been functioning for a period of
less than 6 months prior to the date of the prospectus, the
amount of receipts and disbursements for each of the calendar
months in which said trust has been functioning.
(6) Any estimation of the amount of oil or gas recoverable
from any tract or tracts relating to any underlying security or
any appraisal of the value of oil or gas recoverable from any
tract or tracts relating to any underlying security to be used in
connection with an offer to sell any certificate of interest. If no
such estimation or appraisal is to be so used, a statement to that
effect should be set forth in the prospectus.
(7) Whether the assets of the trust are, or are to be, pledged,
or directly or indirectly encumbered by, or charged with, any
lien, assessment, obligation, or indebtedness. If so, explain
fully.
(8) Whether the purchaser of a certificate of interest is, or
will become, liable for any assessment, obligation, or indebted-
ness.
(9) The name, and address of the principal office, of each
fiduciary.
(10) The name of the State or Territory under the laws of
which each such fiduciary is incorporated or organized, the date
of its incorporation or organization, and the official title of the

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
40
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
commission, official, or body having supervisory powers over
such fiduciary.
(11) The amount of any monthly, annual, or other charge
by, or payment to, the fiduciary or any sponsor of the trust.
(12) The name, and address of the principal place of busi-
ness, of every sponsor not enumerated in paragraphs (b) and
(c) of this rule.
(13) The name and residence address of all officers and di-
rectors of any corporate sponsor, indicating the capacity in
which each serves.
(14) The name and residence address of all persons owning or
holding legal tirle to, or beneficial interest in, 10 percent or more
of any class of stock of any corporate sponsor, indicating the
nature of such ownership or holding.
(15) Any other fact materially affecting the value of the
certificates of interest or the underlying securities deposited, or
to be deposited, in the trust.
(e) Each prospectus shall conclude with the following statement
of representations and shall be appropriateiy executed by the person
making the filing; those filed with the Commission shall be executed
originals, but those used otherwise may be copies:
The undersigned represents to any person who may, in reliance upon a
copy of this prospectus, or any amendment hereof or supplement hereto,
purchase any certifleate described herein, that the statements contained herein,
or in any amendment hereof or supplement hereto, or in any exhibit attached
hereto or incorporated herein, are substantially correct, and that no material
fact has been omitted, the inclusion of which would reasonably appear neces-
sary, in the light of the circumstances, to make the information contained
herein not misleading to the purchaser.
ARTICLE 5. SUSPENSION ORDERS AND THEIR EFFECT
Rule 380. Suspension Orders.
(a) If, at any time within 10 days after the date upon which a
prospectus is received by the Commission for filing, the Commission
has reasonable grounds to believe that the prospectus is incomplete
or inaccurate in any material respect, or includes any untrue state-
ment of a material fact, or omits to state any material fact neces-
sary to make the statements therein contained not misleading, or fails
to comply with any of the requirements of regulation B-T, the
Commission may enter an order temporarily suspending the effec-
tiveness of the filing of such prospectus pending a final hearing
thereon. The Commission shall, promptly upon the entry of any
such order, give notice to the person filing such prospectus: (1)
That such order has been entered, and (2) that the Commission will,

=== Page 89 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
41
upon receipt of a written request from the person filing such pro-
spectus, set the matter for hearing within 20 days after the receipt
of such request, at a place to be designated by the Commission.
Upon receipt of any such request, the Commission will forthwith
set the matter for hearing accordingly, and will promptly give notice
of the time and place thereof. If the Commission does not set the
matter for hearing upon a date within such 20-day period, the order
for suspension then in effect shall, upon expiration of said 20-day
period, expire and be of no further force or effect. Such hearing may
be continued from time to time for cause, but if the Commission
does not enter an order permanently suspending the effectiveness of
the filing of such prospectus within 60 days after such hearing is
finally closed, the suspension order then in effect shall, upon expira-
tion of said 60-day period, likewise expire and be of no further force
or effect.
(b) If, at any time after notice and opportunity for hearing,
either at the written request of a person filing a prospectus, or upon
motion of the Conmission, the Commission finds that a prospectus,
either as of the date of said prospectus or as of the date of the entry
of any order provided for in this paragraph (b), is incomplete or in-
accurate in any material respect or includes an untrue statement of
a material fact, or omits to state any material fact necessary to make
the statements therein contained not misleading, or fails to comply
with any of the requirements of regulation B-T, the Commission
may enter an order permanently suspending the effectiveness of such
prospectus, or, if an order has been previously entered pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this rule and is still in effect, may make the sus-
pension effected by such order permanent.
(c) If, before the hearing with respect thereto is concluded, the
Commission finds that a prospectus has been amended to cure the
objections specified in any temporary suspension order entered pur-
suant to paragraph (a) of this rule, or specified in any notice given
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this rule, the Commission will there-
upon terminate the proceeding which may have been instituted by
any such temporary suspension order, or by any such notice, and
give notice of such action to the person who filed the prospectus.
(d) All notices required by this rule shall be given to the person
who filed the prospectus, and shall be given either by personal service
or registered mail or confirmed telegraphic notice addressed to such
person at the address given in the prospectus.
Rule 382. Effective Date of Prospectus—Effect of Suspension
Order.
A prospectus, complying with the requirements of regulation B-T,
and particularly rule 376, shall become effective on the eleventh

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
42
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
day after the date upon which it is received by the Commission for
filling, except that—
(a) If the Commission shall enter an order under rule 380 (a)
suspending the effectiveness of the filing of such prospectus within
10 days after the date upon which it is received by the Commission
for filing, the filing thereof shall not become effective for any pur-
pose whatever until such proceeding is terminated, or such order for
suspension expires.
(b) If the Commission shall at any time give notice of a hearing
under rule 380 (b), or enter an order under rule 380 (b) sus-
pending the effectiveness of such prospectus, said prospectus shall
not be effective for any purpose whatever subsequent to the giving
of such notice or during the period of such suspension.
ARTICLE 6. WITHDRAWAL, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION OF
PROSPECTUS
Rule 390. Withdrawal of Prospectus.
Any person who has filed a prospectus may apply to the Com-
mission for an order consenting to the withdrawal of same, provided
none of the securities described in said prospectus have been sold, and
such person shall so represent to the Commission in writing. The
Commission will enter an order consenting thereto unless it shall find
that sales of the securities described in said prospectus have, in
fact, been made.
Rule 392. When Prospectus May Be Amended.
Any person who has filed a prospectus may, subject to the pro-
visions of rule 394, file amendments thereto, but only under the
following conditions and in the following instances:
(a) In the event none of the securities referred to in said pros-
pectus have been sold and the person filing the prospectus shall so
represent to the Commission in writing; or
(b) In the event a temporary suspension order is in effect and
the hearing with respect to the entry of a permanent suspension order
has not been concluded; or
(c) In the event no suspension order is in effect, but notice has
been given by the Commission pursuant to rule 380 (b), and the
hearing with respect thereto has not been concluded.
Rule 394. How Prospectus May Be Amended.
Any amendment to a prospectus shall be filed in accordance with
this rule and shall become effective only as hereinafter provided:
(a) The amendment shall be filed with the Commission in tripli-
cate, and each copy shall bear the signature of the person who filed
the prospectus, as well as every other person whose estimations or
statements are modified or affected by such amendment.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
43
(b) An amendment shall be made only by filing or substituting a
wholly corrected prospectus, or by filing or substituting entire exhibits
or pages, as amended.
(c) Any amendment complying with the requirements of this
rule shall become effective at such time as the Commission may
order.
Rule 396. Termination of Effectiveness of Prospectus.
The effectiveness of a prospectus shall terminate not later than 7
months from the date thereof, but any person who has filed a pros-
pectus may apply to the Commission for an order for the earlier
termination of the further effectiveness thereof provided such person
shall file with the Commission a statement that said prospectus will
not be used further and that none of the securities described therein
will be thereafter offered for sale, or sold. Upon such application
the Commission will enter an order terminating the further effective-
ness of such prospectus, unless it shall find such statement insufficient
or that it is not appropriate in the public interest, or for the protec-
tion of investors, so to do.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATION C
REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1. APPLICATION OF REGULATION C
Rule 400. Application of Regulation C.
The rules contained in this regulation shall govern every registra-
tion of securities under the Act, except that any provision in a form
or instruction book covering the same subject matter as any such
rule shall be controlling.
ARTICLE 2. FORMAL REQUIREMENTS AS TO REGISTRATION
STATEMENTS
Rule 410. Forms.
A registration statement shall be on the form prescribed therefor
by the Commission, as in effect upon the date of filing. Any state-
ment shall be deemed to be filed on the proper form unless objection
to the form is made by the Commission prior to the effective date
of the statement.*
Rule 411. Procedure Where Printed Form Not Used.
The registrant is not required to use a printed form supplied by
the Commission. If such printed form is not used, however, it will
be necessary to type or print a complete statement containing all
items in the form and the answers thereto. In such statement the
items of the form shall be made to stand out clearly from the answers
thereto by variation in margin or type size, or by other means.
Rule 412. Paper.
The registration statement, including all amendments and, where
practicable, all documents filed as part thereof, shall be on good
quality unglazed white paper, 8½ by 13 inches in size. Tables
and financial data, however, may be on larger paper, if folded to
such size.
Rule 413. Type—Ink.
The text of all papers included in the registration statement shall
be printed, mimeographed, or typewritten, where practicable. All
copies shall be in distinct and easily readable type. Debits in credit
* For rules governing the cholce of the appropriate form, see the "Guide to Forms
Adopted under the Securitles Act of 1933". which will be furnished upon request.
44

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
45
categories and credits in debit categories may be set forth in red
or black ink, but shall in all cases be designated in such manner as
to be clearly distinguishable as such on photocopies. All other print-
ing, typing, and other markings shall be in black ink.
Rule 414. Margins.
All papers included in the registration statement shall have a
side margin of at least 11½ inches for binding, except exhibits not
prepared in connection with the registration statement.
Rule 415. Riders—Inserts.
Riders shall not be used. If the registration statement is typed
on a printed form, and the space provided for the answer to any
given item is insufficient, reference shall be made in such space to a
full insert page or pages on which the item number and item shall
be restated and the complete answer given.
ARTICLE 3. CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION STATEMENTS
A. TERMS USED IN THE FORMS FOR REGISTRATION
Rule 450. Substitution of "Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion" for "Federal Trade Commission."
Wherever the words "Federal Trade Commission" appear in any
of the forms for registration or in the instructions pertaining thereto,
the words "Securities and Exchange Commission" are substituted
therefor.
Rule 451. Reference to Rule or Regulation by Obsolete Desig-
nation.
Wherever in any form, instruction book or other rule or regula-
tion adopted by the Commission prior to March 15, 1936, specific
reference is made to a rule or regulation by number or other designa-
tion, such reference shall be deemed to be made to the correspond-
ing rule or rules in these General Rules and Regulations.
Rule 455. Definitions of Terms Used in the Forms for Regis-
tration.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in the forms
for registration and in the instructions pertaining thereto have the
same meanings as in the Act and in the General Rules and Regula-
tions. In addition, the following definitions apply, unless the con-
text otherwise requires:
Affiliate.—An "affiliate" of, or a person "affiliated" with, a specified
person, is a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common
control with, the person specified.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
46
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Amount.—The term "amount", when used in regard to securities,
means the principal amount if relating to evidences of indebtedness,
the number of shares if relating to shares, and the number of units
if relating to any other kind of security.
Certified.—The term "certified", when used in regard to financial
statements, means certified by an independent public or independent
certified public accountant.
Charter.—The term "charter" includes articles of incorporation,
articles of association, and any similar documents, as amended.
Control.—The term "control" (including the terms "controlling",
"controlled by" and "under common control with") means the pos-
session, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direc-
tion of the management and policies of a person, whether through
the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. (See
rule 520.)
Director.—The terms "director", "principal executive, financial
and accounting officer", and "trustee", or any other words indicating
the holder of a position or office, include persons, by whatever titles
designated, whose duties are those ordinarily performed by holders
of such positions or offices.
Employee.—The term "employee" does not include a director, trus-
tee, or officer.
Funded debt.—The term "funded debt" has reference only to in-
debtedness having a maturity at the time of its creation of more
than 1 year, independent of acceleration.
Instruments of organization.—The term "instruments of organiza-
tion" means the declaration of trust, articles of association or part-
nership, or any other instruments providing for the organization or
creation of an unincorporated person, as amended.
Material.—The term "material", when used to qualify a require-
ment for the furnishing of information as to any subject, limits the
information required to those matters as to which an average prudent
investor ought reasonably to be informed before purchasing the
security registered.
Parent.—A "parent" of a specified person is an affiliate con-
trolling such person directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries.
Principal underwriter.—The term "principal underwriter" means
an underwriter in privity of contract with the issuer of the securities
as to which he is underwriter, the term "issuer" having the meaning
given in sections 2 (4) and 2 (11) of the Act.
Registrant.—The term "registrant" means the issuer of the secu-
rities for which the registration statement is filed.
Share.—The term "share" means a share of stock in a corporation
or a unit of interest in an unincorporated person.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
47
Subsidiary.—A "subsidiary" of a specified person is an affiliate
controlled by such person directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries.
Voting power.—The term "voting power" means the right, other
than as affected by events of default, to vote or, by virtue of bene-
ficial ownership of securities or otherwise, to direct votes for the
election of directors.
B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AS TO CONTENTS
Rule 500. Clarity.
All answers shall be so worded as to be 'ntelligible without the
necessity of referring to the instruction book accompanying the par-
ticular form or to the General Rules and Regulations.
Rule 501. Forms and Instructions Relate to Registrant.
The forms and instructions require information only as to the
registrant, unless the context clearly shows otherwise.
Rule 502. Information Unknown to Registrant.
Information required need be given only in so far as known or
reasonably available to the registrant. If any required information
is unknown and not reasonably available to the registrant, either
because the obtaining thereof would involve unreasonable effort or
expense or because it rests peculiarly within the knowledge of
another person neither controlling, controlled by, nor under common
control with the registrant, such information may be omitted, sub-
ject to the following conditions:
(a) The registrant shall give such information on the subject
as it possesses or can acquire without unreasonable effort or expense,
together with the sources tnereof, and nmay include a disclaimer of
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness thereof.
(b) As to all information omitted, the registrant shall include a
statement either showing that unreasonable effort or expense would
be involved, or indicating the absence of any relationship of con-
trol with the person within whose knowledge the information rests
and stating the result of a request made to suçh person for such
information.
Rule 503. Statement Required Where Item Is Inapplicable or
Where Answer Is "None."
Except as specifically provided otherwise, if any item is inap-
plicable, or the answer is "None", a statement to such effect shall be
made.
Rule 504. Words Relating to Periods of Time in the Past.
Unless the context clearly shows otherwise, whenever any fixed
period of time in the past is indicated, such period shall be com-

=== Page 96 === (confidence 1.00)
48
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
puted from the date of filing of the registration statement, as deter-
mined by sections 6 (c) and 8 (a) of the Act and the rules and
regulations of the Commission.
Rule 505. Words Relating to the Future.
Unless the context clearly shows otherwise, whenever words relate
to the future, they have reference solely to present intention.
Rule 506. Summaries or Outlines of Documents.
Where a summary or outline of the provisions of any document is
required, the answer shall be brief. It is not intended in such case
that a statement shall be made as to all the provisions of the docu-
ment, but only, in succinct and condensed form, as to the most im-
portant thereof. In addition to such statement as to important pro-
visions, the answer may incorporate by reference particular items,
sections, or paragraphs of any exhibit and may be qualified in its
entirety by such reference.
Rule 520. Disclaimer of Control.
If the existence of control is open to reasonable doubt in any in-
stance, the registrant may disclaim the existence of cortrol and any
admission thereof; in such case, however, the registrant shall state
the material facts pertinent to the possible existence of control.
Rule 521. "Title of Issue."
Where the "title of issue" is required to be furnished in any part
of a registration statement, the following requirements shall be met:
(a) In the case of shares, there shall be given the full designa-
tion of the class of shares, and, if not included therein, the rate of
dividends, if fixed, and whether cumulative or noncumulative.
(b) In the case of funded debt, there shall be given the full
designation of the issue, and, if not included therein, the rate of
interest and the date of maturity. If the issue matures serially,
a brief indication shall be given of the serial maturities: for example,
"maturing serially from 1936 to 1940." The word "income" shall be
added to the designation of "income" bonds, debentures, or notes.
(c) In the case of any other security, a similar designation shall
be given.
Rule 522. Omission of Information as to Tentative Plans Under
Section 11 (b) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935.
A registration statement need not include the details of any tenta-
tive plan relating to section 11 (b) of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 which has been or is to be submitted informally
to the Commission by the registrant or any of its parents or sub-
sidiaries not later than December 1, 1938, pursuant to the Commis-

=== Page 97 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
49
sion's request of August 3, 1938. In such case the registration state-
ment shall contain an appropriate reference to the provisions of sec-
tion 11 (b) and a statement to the effect that such tentative plan
has been or is to be so submitted. The foregoing provisions shall
likewise be applicable to prospectuses.
C. INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
Rule 560. Incorporation of Matter in Registration Statement,
Other Than Exhibits, as Answer to Item.
Matter contained in any part of the registration statement other
than exhibits may be incorporated by reference as answer, or partial
answer, to any item in the statement.
Rule 561. Incorporation of Exhibit as Answer to Item.
A reference to an exhibit will not suffice as an answer to an item
in the registration statement, except to the extent provided in rule
506.
Rule 562. Incorporation of Exhibit Previously or Concurrently
Filed, as Exhibit to New Registration Statement.
(a) Any exhibit or part thereof previously or concurrently filed
with the Commission pursuant to any act administered by the Com-
mission may be incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any
registration statement.
(b) If any modification has occurred in the text of any exhibit
incorporated by reference since the filing thereof, the registrant
shall file with the reference a statement containing the text of any
such modification and the date thereof.
(c) If the number of copies of any exhibit previously or con-
currently filed with the Commission is less than the number re-
quired to be filed with the registration statement which incorporates
such exhibit, the registrant shall file with the registration statement
as many additional copies of the exhibit as may be necessary to meet
the requirements of such statement.
Rule 563. Incorporation of Financial Statements Previously or
Concurrently Filed.
Any financial statement or part thereof previously or concurrently
fled with the Commission pursuant to any act administered by the
Commission may be incorporated by reference in any registration
statement, if it substantially conforms to the requirements of the
form on which such registration statement is filed.
Rule 564. Filing of Written Consents to Use of Incorporated
Material.
If the Act or tie rules and regulations of the Commission require
the filing of written consent to the use of any material in connec-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 1.00)
50
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
tion with the registration statement, such consent shall be filed with
the registration statement even though the material is incorporated
therein by reference.
Rule 565. Identification of Material Incorporated—Form of In-
corporation.
In each case of incorporation by reference, the matter incorporated
shall be clearly identified in the reference. An express statement
shall be made to the effect that the specified matter is incorporated
in the registration statement at the particular place where the in-
formation is required.
Rule 566. Incorporation by Reference of Contested Material.
Notwithstanding any particular provision permitting incorpora-
tion by reference, no registration statement shall incorporate by
reference any exhibit or financial statement which is contained in a
registration statement subject, at the time of filing the subsequent reg-
istration statement, to pending proceedings under section 8 (b) or
8 (d) or to an order entered under either of those sections.
Rule 567. Incorporation by Reference Rendering Registration
Statement Incomplete, Unclear, or Confusing.
Notwithstanding any particular provision permitting incorpora-
tion by reference, the Commission may refuse to permit such incor-
poration in any case in which in its judgment such incorporation
would render the registration statement incomplete, unclear, or con-
fusing.
Rule 568. Incorporation of Answer to Item in Registration of
Guarantee.
Any issuer filing a registration statement for the registration of
a guarantee of any security may incorporate by reference the answer
to any item contained in a registration statement concurrently filed
for the registration of the guaranteed security.
D. NONDISCLOSURE OF CONTRACT PROVISIONS
Rule 580. Nondisclosure of Contract Provisions.
Public disclosure will not be made of the provisions of any ma-
terial contract or portion thereof if the Commission determines that
such disclosure would impair the value of the contract and is not
necessary for the protection of investors. In any case where the
registrant desires the Commission to make such a determination,
the procedure set forth below shall be followed:
(a) The registrant shall omit from the registration statement as
originally filed any reference to or copy of the portion of the con-
tract which it desires to keep undisclosed, or, if the registrant de-

=== Page 99 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
51
sires to keep the entire contract undisclosed, any reference to or
copy of the contract.
(b) The registrant shall file with the registration statement, but
not bound as part thereof, (1) three copies of the contract or por-
tion thereof which it desires to keep undisclosed, clearly marked
"Confidential", and (2) an application for an order making the
above described determination. Such applications shall set forth
the considerations relied upon for obtaining such order.
(c) Pending the granting or denial by the Commission of an
application filed in accordance with paragraph (b), the terms and
existence of the contract or portion thereof will be kept undis-
closed.
(d) If the Commission determines that the application shall be
granted, an order to that effect will be entered.
(e) Prior to any determination denying the application, confirmed
telegraphic notice of an opportunity for hearing, at a specified time
within 10 days after the dispatch of such notice, will be sent to the
agent for service.
(f) If, after such hearing, the Commission determines that the
application shall be granted, an order to that effect will be entered.
(g) If, after such lhearing, the Commission denies the application,
confirmed telegraphic notice of the order of denial will be sent to
the agent for service. In such case, within 10 days after the dis-
patch of such notice, the registrant shall have the right to withdraw
the registration statement in accordance with the terms of rule 960,
but without the necessity of stating any grounds for the withdrawal
or of obtaining the further assent of the Commission. In the event
of such withdrawal, the contract or portion thereof filed confiden-
tially will'be returned to the registrant.
(h) If the registration statement is not withdrawn pursuant to
paragraph (g), the contract or portion thereof filed confidentially
will be made available for public inspection as part of the registra-
tion statement; and the registrant shall amend the registration state-
ment to include all information required to be set forth in regard
to such contract or portion thereof.
Rule 581. Contracts Affecting the National Defense.
(a) Notwithstanding any particular provision in any form for
registration or instruction pertaining thereto, the registrant need
not file as an exhibit to the registration statement a copy of any
contract as to which all the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The contract involves the constructing or supplying of equip-
ment or materials, or the furnishing of experimental facilities,
services, or information for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast
Guard in connection with the national defense.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 1.00)
50
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
tion with the registration statement, such consent shall be filed with
the registration statement even though the material is incorporated
therein by reference.
Rule 565. Identification of Material Incorporated—Form of In-
corporation.
In each case of incorporation by reference, the matter incorporated
shall be clearly identified in the reference. An express statement
shall be made to the effect that the specified matter is incorporated
in the registration statement at the particular place where the in-
formation is required.
Rule 566. Incorporation by Reference of Contested Material.
Notwithstanding any particular provision permitting incorpora-
tion by reference, no registration statement shall incorporate by
reference any exhibit or financial statement which is contained in a
registration statement subject, at the time of filing the subsequent reg-
istration statement, to pending proceedings under section 8 (b) or
8 (d) or to an order entered under either of those sections.
Rule 567. Incorporation by Reference Rendering Registration
Statement Incomplete, Unclear, or Confusing.
Notwithstanding any particular provision permitting incorpora-
tion by reference, the Commission may refuse to permit such incor-
poration in any case in which in its judgment such incorporation
would render the registration statement incomplete, unclear, or con-
fusing.
Rule 568. Incorporation of Answer to Item in Registration of
Guarantee.
Any issuer filing a registration statement for the registration of
a guarantee of any security may incorporate by reference the answer
to any item contained in a registration statement concurrently filed
for the registration of the guaranteed security.
D. NONDISCLOSURE OF CONTRACT PROVISIONS
Rule 580. Nondisclosure of Contract Provisions.
Public disclosure will not be made of the provisions of any ma-
terial contract or portion thereof if the Commission determines that
such disclosure would impair the value of the contract and is not
necessary for the protection of investors. In any case where the
registrant desires the Commission to make such a determination,
the procedure set forth below shall be followed:
(a) The registrant shall omit from the registration statement as
originally filed any reference to or copy of the portion of the con-
tract which it desires to keep undisclosed, or, if the registrant de-

=== Page 101 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
51
sires to keep the entire contract undisclosed, any reference to or
copy of the contract.
(b) The registrant shall file with the registration statement, but
not bound as part thereof, (1) three copies of the contract or por-
tion thereof which it desires to keep undisclosed, clearly marked
"Confidential", and (2) an application for an order making the
above described determination. Such applications shall set forth
the considerations relied upon for obtaining such order.
(c) Pending the granting or denial by the Commission of an
application filed in accordance with paragraph (b), the terms and
existence of the contract or portion thereof will be kept undis-
closed.
(d) If the Commission determines that the application shall be
granted, an order to that effect will be entered.
(e) Prior to any determination denying the application, confirmed
telegraphic notice of an opportunity for hearing, at a specified time
within 10 days after the dispatch of such notice, will be sent to the
agent for service.
(f) If, after such hearing, the Commission determines that the
application shall be granted, an order to that effect will be entered.
(g) If, after such hearing, the Commission denies the application,
confirmed telegraphic notice of the order of denial will be sent to
the agent for service. In such case, within 10 days after the dis-
patch of such notice, the registrant shall have the right to withdraw
the registration statement in accordance with the terms of rule 960,
but without the necessity of stating any grounds for the withdrawal
or of obtaining the further assent of the Commission. In the event
of such withdrawal, the contract or portion thereof filed confiden-
tially will'be returned to the registrant.
(h) If the registration statement is not withdrawn pursuant to
paragraph (g), the contract or portion thereof filed confidentially
will be made available for public inspection as part of the registra-
tion statement; and the registrant shall amend the registration state-
ment to include all information required to be set forth in regard
to such contract or portion thereof.
Rule 581. Contracts Affecting the National Defense.
(a) Notwithstanding any particular provision in any form for
registration or instruction pertaining thereto, the registrant need
not file as an exhibit to the registration statement a copy of any
contract as to which all the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The contract involves the constructing or supplying of equip-
ment or materials, or the furnishing of experimental facilities,
services, or information for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast
Guard in connection with the national defense.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 1.00)
52
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
(2) A copy of the contract is on file with an executive department
of the United States.
(3) The registrant has been notified in writing that such executive
department has administratively determined that the subject of such
contract relates to and affects the national defense and that dis-
closure thereof would be contrary to the public interest.
(b) The registrant shall file as an exhibit to the registration state-
ment, in lieu of the copy of the contract omitted pursuant to para-
graph (a), a copy of each notification received from such executive
department with respect to the filing of copies of the contract or of
information as to its terms.
(c) Notwithstanding any particular provision in any form for
registration or instruction pertaining thereto, the registrant need
not, in answering any item in the form for registration calling for a
summary of the terms of any contract of the type described in para-
graph (a), furnish any information as to any terms of the contract
relating directly or indirectly to any of the following subjects as
to which the registrant has been notified in writing that the executive
department with which a copy of the contract is on file has adminis-
tratively determined that such subjects relate to and affect the na-
tional defense and that disclosure thereof would be contrary to the
public interest:
(1) Quantity of equipment or materials to be constructed or sup-
plied.
(2) Designations of type, descriptions, specifications, deliveries,
tests, or guarantees of performance with respect to such equipment
or materials.
(3) Nature and extent of experimental facilities, services, or in-
formation to be furnished.
(d) The answer to any item in the form for registration calling
for a summary of the terms of any contract of the type described in
paragraph (a) shall include a statement in approximately the fol-
lowing form:
Information as to certain terms of the contract(s) has been omitted pur-
suant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, the registrant having been notified that the
Depart-
ment (naming the executive department) has determined that such information
relates to and affects the national defense and that disclosure thereof would
be contrary to the public interest. Such notification is filed as Exhibit .
(e) Public disclosure will not be made of the contents of any noti-
fication filed pursuant to paragraph (b), or of any portion of the
information as to the terms of the contract required to be furnished
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c), if the Commission
determines that such disclosure would impair the value of the con-
tract and is not necessary for the protection of investors. In any
case where the registrant desires the Commission to make such a

=== Page 103 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
53
determination, the procedure set forth in rule 580 shall be followed,
except that there shall be filed, in lieu of the three copies of the con-
tract or portion thereof required by paragraph (b) (1) of such
rule, three copies of the notification and three copies of the informa-
tion as to the terms of the contract which the registrant desires to.
keep undisclosed, all clearly marked "Confidential."
E. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Rule 600. Special Financial Requirements in Case Registrant
is a Natural Person.
A registrant who is a natural person may file, in lieu of the balance
shects and profit and loss statements otherwise required in the ap-
propriate form for registration or the instructions accompanying
such form, the following financial statements:
(a) A statement of assets and liabilities of the registrant as of a
date within 90 days, and statements of the registrant's income year
by year for the 3 calendar years preceding the date of such state-.
ment of assets and liabilities. These statements shall be set forth
in reasonable detail and need not be certified.
(b) Balance sheets and profit and loss statements of—
(1) Every business of which the registrant is sole proprietor.
(2) Every partnership in which the registrant has a controlling
interest.
(3) Every business trust, unincorporated association, or similar
business organization in which the registrant has a controlling in-
terest.
(4) Every corporation in which the registrant owns directly or
indirectly securities representing more than 50 percent of the voting
power other than as affected by events of default.
(c) Financial statements need not be filed, however, with respect.
to any corporation or other business organization designated in (3)
or (4) of paragraph (b) above if both of the following conditions
exist:
(1) The registrant's total investment in such corporation or
business organization does not exceed 5 percent of the registrant's
total assets;
(2) The registrant's total income from such corporation or
business organization does not exceed 5 percent of the registrant's
gross income:
Provided, That the registrant's aggregate investment in all such cor-
porations and business organizations whose statements are omitted
pursuant to this paragraph (c) shall not exceed 15 percent of the
registrant's total assets, and that the registrant's aggregate income
from all such corporations and business organizations shall not ex-
ceed 15 percent of the registrant's gross income.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 1.00)
54
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
(d) Financial statements required by paragraph (b) above shall be
for the dates and periods prescribed for the financial statements of an
unconsolidated subsidiary in the appropriate form for registration.
Such statements shall also conform, so far as practicable, to all other
requirements as to financial statements, including requirements as to
certification, as set forth in such form.
F. ACCOUNTANTS
Rule 650. Qualifications of Accountants.
(a) The Commission will not recognize any person as a certified
accountant who is not duly registered and in good standing as a
certified public accountant under the accounting laws of the State.
Territory, or country of his residence or principal office. The Com-
mission will not recognize any person as a public accountant who is
not in good standing and entitled to practice as such under the laws
of the State, Territory, or country of his residence or principal office.
(b) The Commission will not recognize any certified accountant
or public accountant as independent who is not in fact independent.
An accountant will not be considered independent with respect to
any person in whom he has any substantial interest, direct or indi-
rect, or with whom he is connected as an officer, employee, pro-
moter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director, or person performing
similar functions.
Rule 651. Certification by Accountants.
The certificate of the accountant or accountants shall be dated,
shall be reasonably comprehensive as to the scope of the audit made,
and shall state clearly the opinion of the accountant or accountants
in respect of the financial statements of, and the accounting prin-
ciples and procedures followed by, the person or persons whose
statements are furnished. In certifying to the financial statements,
independent public or independent certified public accountants may
give due weight to an internal system of audit regularly maintained
by means of auditors employed on the registrant's own staff. In
such case the independent accountants shall review the accounting
procedures followed by the registrant and its subsidiaries and by
appropriate measures shall satisfy themselves that such accounting
procedures are in fact being followed. Nothing in this rule shall be
construed to imply authority for the omission of any procedure
which independent public accountants would ordinarily employ in
the course of a regular annual audit. The certificate of the account-
ant or accountants shall be applicable to the matter in the registra-
tion statement proper to which a reference is required in the financial
statements.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
55
Rule 652. Certification by Foreign Government Auditors.
If the registrant is a foreign governmental agency, the require-
ments of the appropriate form for registration as to certification by
independent public or certified accountants may be satisfied by sub-
mitting financial statements certified by the regular and customary
accounting and auditing staff of such government or agency thereof,
when such certification is the customary and usual mode employed in
preparing public financial statements upon the operations of such
government, its departments or agencies.
G. WRITTEN CONSENTS
Rule 670. Written Consents of Experts.
All consents of experts filed with the registration statement pur-
suant to section 7 of the Act, except such consents as are contained
in the respective reports of the experts, shall be attached after the
signature page of the registration statement. A complete list of all
consents contained in the respective reports and not attached after
the signature page shall be appended after the attached consents.
Rule 671. Application to Dispense With Written Consent.
An application to the Commission to dispense with any written
consent of an expert pursuant to section 7 of the Act shall be made
by the registrant and shall be supported by an affidavit or affidavits
establishing that the obtaining of such consent is impracticable or
involves undue hardship on the registrant. Such application shall
be filed and consent of the Commission shall be obtained prior to the
effective date of the registration statement.
Rule 672. Written Consents of Persons Named in the Registra-
tion Statement as About to Become Directors or Partners.
If any person who has not signed the registration statement is
named therein as about to become a director, person performing sim-
ilar functions, or partner, the written consent of such person shall be
filed with the registration statement. Any such consent, however,
may be omitted if there is filed with the registration statement a state-
ment by the registrant, supported by an affidavit or affidavits, setting
forth the reasons for such omission and establishing that the obtain-
ing of such consent is impracticable or involves undue hardship on
the registrant. All consents filed pursuant to this rule shall be
attached after the signature page of the registration statement and
immediately following the consents of experts and list of consents,
if any, filed pursuant to rule 670.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 1.00)
56
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
H. EXHIBITS
Rule 680. Additional Exhibits.
The registrant may file such exhibits as it may desire, in addi-
tion to those required by the registration form or the accompanying
instruction book. Such exhibits shall be so marked as to indicate
clearly the items to which they refer.
Rule 681. Omission of Substantially Identical Documents.
In any case where two or more indentures, contracts, franchises,
patents, or other documents required to be filed as exhibits are sub-
stantially identical in all material respects except as to the parties
thereto, the dates of execution, or other details, the registrant need
file a copy of only one of such documents, with a schedule identifying
the other documents omitted and setting forth the material details
in which such documents differ from the document of which a copy
is filed: Provided, however, That the Commission may at any time
in its discretion require the filing of copies of any documents so
omitted.
J. POWERS OF AGENT FOR SERVICE NAMED IN REGISTRATION
STATEMENT
Rule 720. Powers of Agent for Service Named in Registration
Statement.
Every registrant and all persons signing the registration statement,
by naming an agent for service in the registration statement, shall
be deemed, in the absence of a statement to the contrary, to confer
upon such agent the following powers:
(a) A power to amend the registration statement by altering the
date of the proposed offering of the securities for which the registra-
tion statement is filed.
(b) A power to amend the registration statement by filing any
written consent of an expert required by section 7 of the Act to be
filed with the registration statement.
(c) A power to make application pursuant to rule 945 for the
Commission's consent to the filing of an amendment.
(d) A power to withdraw the registration statement or any amend-
ment thereto.
(e) A power to consent to the entry of an order under section 8 (b)
of the Act, waiving notice and hearing, such order being entered
without prejudice to the right of the registrant thereafter to have
the order vacated upon a showing to the Commission that the registra-
tion statement as amended is no longer incomplete or inaccurate on
its face in any material respect.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
57
K. UNDERTAKING TO FURNISH SUPPLEMENTARY AND PERIODIO
INFORMATION, DOCUMENTS, AND REPORTS
Rule 730. Undertaking to Furnish Supplementary and Periodic
Information, Documents, and Reports.
The undertaking required by section 15 (d) of the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to be contained in all registration statements to
which said subsection applies may be in the following form:
Pursuant to section 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the uader-
signed registrant hereby undertakes to file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission such supplementary and periodic information, documents, and
reports as may be prescribed by any rule or regulation of the Commission here-
tofore or hereafter duly adopted pursuant to authority conferred in said sec-
tion 15 (d) : Provided, however, That this undertaking shall become operative
only upon the conditions specified in said sectlon 15 (d) : And provided further,
That the duty to file pursuant to this undertaking shall be automatically sus-
pended upon the conditions and for the periods specifled in clauses (1), (2),
and (3) of said section 15 (d).
Such undertaking shall be inserted immediately preceding the signa-
ture of the registrant.
M. CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT FOR SECURITIES
ISSUED BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OR POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION THEREOF
Rule 780. Information to be Furnished by a Foreign Govern-
ment Under Paragraph (6) of Schedule B.
Any foreign government fling a registration statement pursuant
to schedule B of the Act need state, in furnishing the information
required by paragraph (6), the names and addresses only of prin-
cipal underwriters, namely, underwriters in privity of contract with
the registrant : Procided, That they are designated as principal under-
writers: And provided further, That a brief statement is made as to
the discounts and commissions to be received by subunderwriters or
dealers.
Rule 781. Information to be Furnished Under Paragraph (3)
of Schedule B.
Any issuer filing a registration statement pursuant to schedule B
of the Act need not furnish the detailed information specified in
paragraph (3) as to issues of outstanding funded debt the aggregate
amount of which outstanding is less than 5 percent of the total
funded debt outstanding and to be created by the security to be
offered: Provided, That the amount thereof is included in the state-
ment of the total amount of funded debt outstanding: And provided
further, That a statement is made as to the title, amount outstanding,
rate of interest, and date of maturity of each such issue.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
58
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
ARTICLE 4. PROSPECTUSES
A. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AS TO PROSPECTUSES
Rule 800. Filing of Prospectuses—Number of Copies.
(a) Five copies of the form or forms of prospectus proposed to
be used upon the commencement of the public offering of a security
shall be filed as part of the registration statement at the time the
statement is filed.
(b) Within 5 days after the commencement of the public offering,
20 copies of each form of prospectus used in connection with such
offering shall be filed with the Commission in the exact form used.
(c) No prospectus which purports to comply with section 10 and
which varies from any form of prospectus filed pursuant to para-
graph (b) of this rule shall be used until 20 copies thereof shall have
been filed with the Commission.
(d) Every prospectus consisting of a radio broadcast shall be
reduced to writing. The user of such prospectus shall file five copies
thereof with the Commission at least 5 days before the prospectus
is broadcast or otherwise issued to the public.
Rule 801. Reconciliation and Tie.
The registrant shall file for each form of prospectus five copies
of a complete reconciliation and tie of all data shown in the pros-
pectus with the data shown in the registration statement.
B. CONTENTS OF PROSPECTUSES
Rule 821. Condensation—Order of Information—Incorporation
by Reference.
(a) The information set forth in a prospectus, except as to financial
statements required to be furnished, may be expressed in condensed
or summarized form. The information need not follow the numeri-
cal sequence of the items of information in the registration statement.
(b) Where matter contained in exhibits is permitted to be incor-
porated by reference in the answer to an item in the registration
statement, a similar incorporation by reference may be made in the
prospectus.
Rule 822. Financial Statements Included in Prospectus.
Financial statements included in a prospectus should be set forth in
comparative form, if practicable, and shall include the accountant's
certificate.
Rule 823. Legibility of Prospectus.
(a) The body of any printed prospectus other than a newspaper
prospectus shall be in type at least as legible as ten point leadek
type.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
59
(b) All information required to be included in any prospectus
shall be placed in a conspicuous part thereof, in type as large as
that used generally in the body of the prospectus.
Rule 824. Date of Issue of Prospectus.
Each prospectus shall state in a conspicuous place the approxi-
mate date on which it is to be issued.
Rule 825. Statement Required in All Prospectuses.
There shall be placed on the front page of every prospectus, in
conspicuous print, the following three paragraphs, with the first
and third paragraphs in capital letters:
THESE SECURITIES HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED
BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
(insert name of issuer) has registered
the securities by filing certain information with the Commission. The Com-
mission has not passed on the merits of any securities registered with it.
IT IS A CRIMINAL OFFENSE TO REPRESENT THAT THE COMMIS-
SION HAS APPROVED THESE SECURITIES OR HAS MADE ANY FIND-
INGS THAT THE STATEMENTS IN THIS PROSPECTUS OR IN THE
REGISTRATION STATEMENT ARE CORRECT.
Rule 826. Statement Required in Prospectuses Omitting Infor-
mation Contained in Registration Statement.
In any case in which a prospectus for a security registered other-
wise than on form A-2 omits information which is contained in the
registration statement, the prospectus shall contain, in type as legible
as that used generally in the body of the prospectus, the following
statement:
This prospectus omits certain of the information contained in the registra-
tion statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Items of
information which are thus omitted may be obtained from the Securities and
Exchange Commission upon payment of the fee prescribed by the rules and
regulations of the Commission.
Rule 827. Statement Required ir. Prospectuses Relative to
Stabilizing.
In any case in which the registrant or any of the underwriters
knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that it is intended to
stabilize the price of any security to facilitate the offering of the
registered security there shall be placed on the first or second page
of every prospectus the following statement in capital letters:
TO FACILITATE THE OFFERING, IT IS INTENDED TO STABILIZE
THE PRICE(S) OF
(Identify security(ies) in which stabilizing transactions
will be effected.)
ON
(Identify exchange(s) on which stabilizing transactions will be effected.
If none, omit this line.)

=== Page 110 === (confidence 1.00)
60
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
THIS STATEMENT IS NOT AN ASSURANCE THAT THE PRICE(S) OF
THE ABOVE SECURITY(IES) WILL BE STABILIZED OR THAT THE
STABILIZING, IF COMMENCED, MAY NOT BE DISCONTINUED AT ANY
TIME.
Rule 830. Omissions from Prospectuses for Securities Registered
on Form A-1.
In the case of a security registered on form A-1, information in
respect of the following, contained in the registration statement, may
be omitted from any prospectus: Items 9; 17; 18; 23, except as to
the issue or issues for which the registration statement is filed;
28; 29, except information as of a date within 20 days concerning
persons owning more than 10 percent of any class of voting stock
of the issuer; 31, except as to principal underwriters; 36; 37; 38;
46; 48; 49; 52, except that the number of subsidiaries and affiliates
shall be stated; all supporting schedules to financial statements, ex-
cept that if such statements are for a person engaged, directly or
through subsidiaries, primarily in the business of investing and rein-
vesting or trading in securities for revenue and profit, and not for the
purpose or with the effect of exercising control, the schedules called
for by instructions 6 and 11 pertaining to balance sheets shall be
included in the prospectus; all financial statements and schedules of
any unconsolidated subsidiary the total assets of which, as shown
by its latest balance sheet filed with the registration statement,
amount to less than 15 percent of the total assets of the registrant
and its consolidated subsidiaries as shown by the latest consolidated
balance sheet filed with the registration statement; and all exhibits.
Rule 831. Omissions From Prospectuses for Securities Issued
by Foreign Government or Political Subdivision Thereof.
In the case of a security for which a registration statement con-
forming to schedule B is in effect, the following information, con-
tained in the registration statement, may be omitted from any pros-
pectus: Information in answer to paragraph (3) of the schedule
with respect to the amortization and retirement provisions for debt
not being registered, and with respect to the provisions for the sub-
stitution of security for such debt; information in answer to para-
graph (11); the copy of any agreement or agreements required by
paragraph (13); the agreement required by paragraph (14); all
information, whether contained in the registration statement itself
or in any. exhibit thereto, not required by schedule B.
Rule 832. Omissions From Prospectuses for Securities Regis-
tered on Form C-1.
In the case of a security registered on form C-1, information in
respect of the following, contained in the registration statement,
may be omitted from any prospectus: Items 4; 5; 7; 8; 9; 10; 18;

=== Page 111 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
61
19; 33; 34; 37; 44; 45; 57; 58; 59; 61; 68; 70; 71; 75; exhibits
A, B, C, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, and R. Exhibit Q may be
condensed.
Rule 833. Omissions From Prospectuses for Securities Regis-
tered on Form D-1.
In the case of a security registered on form D-1, information in
respect of the following, contained in the registration statement, may
be omitted from any prospectus: In part I, items 4, 18, 39, and all
exhibits except financial statements filed in compliance with items 14
and 15; in part II, item 44, and all exhibits.
Rule 834. Omissions From Prospectuses for Securities Regis-
tered on Form D-1A.
In the case of a security registered on form D-1A, information in
respect of the following, contained in the registration statement, may
be omitted from any prospectus: All exhibits and all information con-
tained in schedules, on condition that copies of each of the schedules
attached to the registration statement are included.
Rule 835. Omissions From Prospectuses for Securities Regis-
tered on Form E-1.
(a) In the case of a security registered on form E-1, information
in respect to the following, contained in the registration statement,
may be omitted from any prospectus:
(1) Facing sheet.
(2) Calculation of the registration fee.
(3) Items 4; 11 and 12, except as to securities to be exchanged for
new securities under the plan; 13 and 14, except as to securities regis-
tered hereunder, and except as to stock of any class; 16; 17; 22; 24 (a);
26;27;39;40;41;42;43;45;46;47;any item not set forth above as to
which the answer is in the negative.
(4) Signatures.
(5) Exhibits A to K, inclusive; the supplementary, earlier balance
sheets required under exhibits L, N, P, R, T, and W; exhibits M, O,
Q, U, and X, including all statements of predecessors who are such
under paragraph (2) of definition No. 19 in the form (except the
most recent profit and loss statement of the predecessor most recently
owner of each item or group of property), but excepting the profit
and loss statements for the latest fiscal year and any subsequent
period of the registrant, all guarantors, and all predecessors who are
such under paragraph (1) of definition No. 19 in the form; the un-
consolidated financial statements of the registrant and the financial
statements of subsidiaries required under exhibit V; all supplemental
schedules, except that if the financial statements are for a person
engaged, directly or through subsidiaries, primarily in the business
of investing and reinvesting or trading in securities for revenue and

=== Page 112 === (confidence 1.00)
62
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
profit, and not for the purpose or with the effect of exercising control,
the schedules called for by instructions Nos. 3 and 7 of financial state-
ment instruction set No. 1 shall be included in the prospectus; any
schedules or statements submitted in lieu of any of the balance sheets
or profit and loss statements which may be omitted from the prospectus
under this rule.
(b) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, before or
at the time of the delivery of securities registered on form E-1,
there shall be delivered to the persons intended to receive such se-
curities a prospectus containing such information as would have been
required in the registration statement under the following items if
the statement had originally been filed so as to become effective not
more than 20 days prior to the date of the commencement of the
delivery: 8, 10, 13–15, 18, 19, 21, 23, 24, 28 (a), 29 (a), 30–37,
44 (a)-(e). Such information need be included in this prospectus,
however, only insofar as it differs from that given in a previous
prospectus used in connection with the registration on this form.
It may be expressed in a condensed or summarized form. Twenty
copies of any prospectus purporting to comply with this paragraph
must be filed as an amendment t the registration statement.
Rule 836. Omissions From Prospectuses for Securities Regis-
tered on Form F-1.
In the case of a security registered on form F-1, information in
respect of the following, contained in the registration statement,
may be omitted from any prospectus: Items 3, 26, 27, and all
exhibits.
Rule 850. Contents of Prospectus Used More Than Thirteen
Months After Effective Date of Registration Statement.
(a) Information contained in a registration statement may be
omitted from a prospectus used more than 13 months after the effec-
tive date of the registration statement in so far as information on
the same subjects but as of a date not more than 12 months prior
to the use of the prospectus is contained therein.
(b) No amendment of the registration statement need be made
in connection with the omission of information pursuant to para-
graph (a) of this rule, but 20 copies of the prospectus proposed
to be used shall be filed with the Commission pursuant to rule 800 (c).
Rule 851. Contents of Prospectus When Several Registration
Statements in Effect.
When two or more registration statements become effective for
different blocks of the same class of security, a prospectus which
meets the requirements of the Act and of the rules and regulations
of the Commission for use in connection with units of that block

=== Page 113 === (confidence 1.00)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
63
of the security which is covered by the latest effective registration
statement will be deemed to meet such requirements for use in connec-
tion with units of blocks of the security covered by earlier effective
registration statements: Provided, That—
(a) If the statements used in the registration of the several blocks
of securities were filed on form A-1, the prospectus shall contain
in addition the following items of information from the registration
statements covering the blocks earlier registered, except insofar as
they are the same as the corresponding items in the latest registration
statement, in which case that fact shall be stated: Items 25; 26; 30; 31,
as to principal underwriters; 33; 34; 35; 39; 40; 41; 42; 43; 44; 45;
and 48.
(b) If the statements used in the registration of the several blocks
of securities were filed on form C-1, the prospectus shall contain in
addition the following items of information from the registration
statements covering the blocks earlier registered, except insofar as
they are the same as the corresponding items in the latest registration
statement, in which case that fact shall be stated: Items 3 and 46.
(c) If the latest effective registration statement was filed on form
A-2, the prospectus shall contain in addition the following items
of information from the registration statements covering the blocks
earlier registered, except insofar as they are the same as the corre-
sponding items in the latest registration statement, in which case that
fact shall be stated: Items 24 and 28 from earlier registration state-
ments on form A-2; Items 26, 27, 33, and 34 from earlier registra-
tion statements on form A-1.
Rule 880. Newspaper Advertisements Containing Invitations for
Bids Pursuant to State Law.
If, in order to satisfy the requirements of State law in effect since
a time prior to June 1, 1935, it is necessary to advertise in more than
five newspapers for bids in connection with an offering of a security
of a public service company, any matter contained in the registration
statement may be omitted from a newspaper prospectus in any of the
newspapers in which such advertisement is required pursuant to such
law: Provided, That such advertisement is an invitation for bids
only, and states that, prior to acceptance of any bid, the bidder will
be furnished with a copy of the official prospectus. In such case, the
provisions of other rules or instructions of the Commission regarding
newspaper prospectuses need not be complied with.
Rule 890. Special Prospectuses Containing Statement as to Sta-
bilizing.
All matter contained in the registration statement may be omitted
from a prospectus which states fron whom a written prospectus

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
64
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
meeting the requirements of section 10 for the purpose of section
5 (b) (2) may be obtained and, in addition, does no more than
(1) identify the security, (2) state the price thereof, (3) state by
whom orders will be executed, and (4) include a statement substan-
tially similar to that specified in rule 827. Such prospectus shall not
be subject to any other provisions of this article. Such prospectus
shall not be deemed a prospectus meeting the requirements of sec-
tion 10 for the purpose of section 2 (10) or 5 (b) (2).
ARTICLE 5. FEES
Rule 900. Computation of Fee.
(a) At the time of filing a registration statement, the registrant
shall pay to the Commission a fee of one one-hundredth of 1 percent
of the maximum aggregate price at which the securities are proposed
to be offered, but in no case shall such fee be less than $25.
(b) Where securities are to be offered at prices computed upon
the basis of fluctuating market prices, the "price at which the se-
curities are proposed to be offered", upon which the registration fee
is to be calculated, shall be based upon the price at which units of
securities of the same class were or would have been sold on a speci-
fied date within fifteen days prior to the filing of the registration
 contráry to dhe puvc mterco. c dotca o cu ao 
postal money order or certified bank check payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission, omitting the name or title of any official
of the Commission.
ARTICLE 6. FILING
Rule 920. Binding—Number of Copies.
Three copies of the complete registration statement shall be filed
with the Commission. Each such copy shall be bound on the left-
hand side in one or more parts, without stiff covers. The binding
shall be made in such manner as to leave the reading matter legible.
The two extra copies of the prospectus required to be filed with the
registration statement pursuant to rule 800 (a) shall be individu-
ally bound.
Rule 921. Place of Filing.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this rule, the registration state-
ment and all other papers required to be filed with the Commission
shall be delivered through the mails or otherwise to the Securities
and Exchange Commission, Washington, D. C.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
65
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
rule, a registration statement containing information substantially
the same as that contained in an earlier registration statement filed
with the Commission by the same issuer may be filed in any regional
office of the Commission: Provided, That it is so filed within ninety
days after the effective date of such earlier registration statement.
No amendment to a registration statement shall be filed in any
regional office.
Rule 922. Date of Filing.
The date on which any papers are actually received in the proper
office of the Commission pursuant to rule 921 shall be the date of fil-
ing thereof, if all the requirements of the Act and the rules with
respect to such filing have been complied with and the required fee
paid. The failure to pay an insignificant amount of the required
fee at the time of filing, as the result of a bona fide error, shall not
be deemed to affect the date of filing.
ARTICLE 7. EFFECTIVE DATE
Rule 930. Calculation of Time.
The following.rules shall govern the calculation of the effective
date of a registration statement under section 8 (a):
(a) Sundavs and holidays shall be counted in computing the
gross income:
tieth day shalt be ucemeu  veg 
periods, of twenty-four hours each, from 4: 30 p. m. Eastern Stand-
ard Time on the date of filing.
(c) In the case of statements which become effective pursuant
to section 8 (a) seven days after the filing thereof, the statements
shall become effective on the seventh day after the filing, counting the
next day after the date of filing as the first day.
ARTICLE 8. AMENDMENTS
Rule 940. Formal Requirements for Amendments.
(a) Amendments to the registration statement shall conform in all
respects to rules 412, 413, and 414 as to the formal requirements
for papers filed with the Commission.
(b) Amendments shall be numbered consecutively in the order in
which filed with the Commission.
Rule 941. Signatures to Amendments.
Subject to rule 720, every amendment to a registration statement
shall comply with the requirements of section 6 (a) of the Act as to
signatures to the registration statement.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 1.00)
66
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Rule 942. Filing of Amendments—Number of Copies.
Five copies of any amendment to the prospectus and three copies
of any other amendment to the registration statement, except a tele-
graphic amendment pursuant to rule 943, shall be filed with the
Commission at its office in Washington, D. C.
Rule 943. Telegraphic Delaying Amendments.
An amendment altering the proposed date of the public offering
may be made by the agent for service by telegram. In each case
such telegraphic amendment shall be confirnmed within a reasonable
time by the filing of three copies, one of which shall be signed by
the agent for service. Such confirmation shall not be deemed an
amendment.
Rule 944. Date of Filing of Amendments.
The date on which amendments are actually received by the Com-
mission shall be the date of filing thereof, if all the requirements
of the Act and the rules with respect to such filing have been complied
with.
Rule 945. Effective Date of Amendment Filed Under Section
8 (a) With Consent of Commission.
A registrant desiring the Commission's consent to the filing of an
amendment with the effect provided in section 8 (a) of the Act may
apply for such consent at or before the time of filing the amendment.
The application shall be signed by the registrant and shall state fully
the grounds upon which made. The Commission's consent shall be
deemed to have been given and the amendment shall be treated as
part of the registration statement upon the entry of an order to that
effect.
Rule 946. Effective Date of Amendment Filed Under Section
8 (a) Pursuant to Order of Commission.
An amendment made prior to the effective date of the registration
statement shall be deemed to have been made pursuant to an order
of the Commission within the meaning of section 8 (a) of the Act
so as to be treated as part of the registration statement only when the
Commission shall after the filing of such amendment find that it has
been filed pursuant to its order.
ARTICLE 9. WITHDRAWAL
Rule 960. Withdrawal of Registration Statement or Amendment
Thereto.
Any registration statement or any amendment thereto may be
withdrawn upon the application of the registrant if the Commis-
sion, finding such withdrawal consistent with the public interest

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
67
and the protection of investors, consents thereto. The application for
such consent shall be signed by the registrant and shall state fully
the grounds upon which made. The fee paid upon the filing of the
registration statement will not be returned to the registrant. The
papers comprising the registration statement or amendment thereto
shall not be removed from the files of the Commission but shall be
plainly marked with the date of the giving of such consent, and in
the following manner: "Withdrawn upon the request of the regis-
trant, the Commission consenting thereto."
ARTICLE 10. SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENTS AS TO
OFFERING PRICE
Rule 970. Supplementary Statement of Actual Offering Price.
The registrant shall file with the Commission within 10 days after
the security is actually offered to the public a statement setting forth
the actual price at which the security was so offered. If such price
differs from the proposed price set forth in the registration state-
ment, a brief explanation of such difference shall be made.
ARTICLE 11. REGISTRATION OF ADDITIONAL BLOCKS OF
SECuRiTIeS PReViOUSLY ReGISteRed
Rule 980. Registration of Additional Blocks of Securities Pre-
viously Registered.
The registration of an additional block of a security for which a
registration statement is already in effect shall be effected through
a separate registration statement relating to the additional block.
O

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
For Release in MORNING Newspapers of Wednesday, February 21, 1940
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 2179
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 2414
ACCOUNTING SERIES
Release No. 12
REGULATION S-X
The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted a uniform set of accounting re-
quirements which will apply to the majority of the Commission's registration and report
forms under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The new single accounting regulation will be substituted for the several existing
sets of accounting instructions which have heretofore applied to the various forms. More-
over, the new regulation will have the effect of simplifying amendments and interpretations
of accounting rules, inasmuch as such amendments and interpretations will apply to a single
regulation instead of to a variety of requirements.
The new regulation, designated Regulation S-X, will govern the form and content of all
financial statements and schedules required to be filed as-a part of --
(a) Registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 filed on Form A-2;
(b) Applications for registration of securities under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, filed on Form 8–A, 8-B, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 17, 22, 23, or 24;
(c) Supplemental or periodic reports under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, filed on Form 10-K, 11-K, 13-K, 14-K, 15-K, 17-K, or 24-K; and,
(d) Supplemental or periodic reports under Section 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, filed on Form 1-MD or 4-MD.
The new regulation will be applicable to all filings made on these forms after May 31,
194o. However, if a registrant so elects, the provisions of the new regulation may also be
applied to financial statements filed prior to that date.
In general, the new regulation constitutes a codification of existing instructions as
to the form and content of financial statements as, now contained in each of the several
forms listed. Instructions as to the dates and periods for which financial statements are
required to be filed, however, will be found in the respectiye forms.
As now organized, the regulation is subdivided into twelve articles. The first four
articles contain rules of general application. The next six articles prescribe, respec-
tively, the form and content of financial statements for commercial and industrial com-
panies, investment companies, insurance companies, committees issuing certificates of de-
posit, bank holding companies, and natural persons. The remaining articles deal with the
form and content of surplus statements and supplementary schedules. A comprehensive table
of contents is included.
Some new requirements have been added in the new regulation, principally with a view
to obtaining more informative disclosure as to such accounting policies as depreciation,
depletion, and maintenance and as to such matters as advances to and from affiliates, di-
rectors, and officers. Additional flexibility to the requirements has been given through
extension of the rules permitting the elimination of schedules and special information
when the amounts involved are not material.
The new regulation incorporates a considerable number of the many well-considered and
helpful suggestions received fron the large group of accountants, registrants, and others,
including representatives of the professional societies, to whom a tentative revision of
the instructions was made available.
In view of the pending proceedings in the matter of McKesson and Robbins, Incorpo-
rated, and several other cases, the rules governing certification by accountants, although

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Release No. 2179
altered and clarified in some respects, have been retained in substantially the form now
found in the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act of 1933 and the sever-
al major forms under the 193s and 1934 Acts. Upon completion of these proceedings, however,
such rules are to be reconsidered with a view to revisions deemed necessary as a result of
these cases.
The Securities and Exchange Commission also announced the adoption of an amendment to
Forms 15 and 17 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for use, respectively, by incor-
porated and unincorporated investment companies. The amendments incorporate as an item in
the form the requirements for certain historical financial data which previously were called
for in connection with the financial statements and are operative only when the new Regula-
tion S-X is applicable.
The text of the Commission's action follows:
I. ADOPTION OF REGULATION S-X
The Securities and Exchange Commission, acting pursuant to authority conferred upon it
by the Securities Act of 1939, particularly Sections 7 and 19 (a) thereof, and the Securi-
ties Exchange Act of 1934, particularly Sections 12 and 23 (a) thereof, and finding such ac-
tion necessary and appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors,
and necessary for the execution of the functions vested in it by the said Acts, hereby
adopts Regulation S-X, governing the form and content of all financial statements specified
in Rule 1.O1 of the Regulation.
The foregoing action shall be effective February 21, 1940, except that financial state-
ments filed as a part of any registration statement, application for registration, or report
filed with the Commission prior to June 1, 1940, may be prepared in accordance with the ap-
plicable requirements as in effect immediately prior to the adoption of Regulation S-x.
II. Amendment No. 3 to Form 15 - Amendment No. 2 to Form 17
The Securities and Exchange Commission, acting pursuant to authority conferred upon it
by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, particularly Sections 12 and 23 (a) thereof, and
finding such action necessary and appropriate in the public interest and for the protection
of investors and necessary for the execution of the functions vested in it by the said Act,
hereby takes the following action:
A. Forms 15 and 17 are amended by adding after Item 38 of each of such forms a new
Item 39, reading as follows:
39. Furnish the information required below with respect to capital slares as
shown on each balance sheet required to be filed:
(a) If, since January 1, 1925, there have been restatements of capital shares
which have resulted in transfers from capital share liability to surplus or reserves,
state the amounts of such restatements and all related entries. No statement need be
made as to restatements resulting from the declaration of share dividends.
(b) If, since January 1, 1925, there has been an original issue of capital shares,
any part of the proceeds from which was credited to accounts other than capital share
accounts, state the accounts and the respective amounts credited thereto.
B. The Instruction Books for Forms 15 and 17 are amended by adding immediately after
the instruction to Item 38 of Form 15 and Item 37 of Form 17, a new instruction reading as
follows:
Item 39. 1. In applications filed with the Commission prior to June 1, 1940, this
item need not be answered unless the financial statements required are prepared-in ac-
cordance with the requirements of Regulation S-X.
2. This item does not call for an audit, but only for a survey or review of the
accounts named. The answer shall, as such, be separately certified by either (a) the
board of directors through its authorized agent, or (b) the chief accounting officer of
the registrant, or (c) independent public or independent certified public accountants.
The foregoing action shall be effective February 21, 1940.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
Departgent of State
Washington,
1940 MAR 6 PM 1 56
March, 1940
DIVISION OF
2pm
COMMUNICATIONS
USHIGHCOM
AND RECORDS
MANILA (PHILIPPINE ISLANDS), VIA NAVAL RADIO
43
February 19, 3 p.m., in regard to the importation into
894.51/660
Philippines of Japanese bonds.
A communioation has been received from the Chairman
of the (Securities and Exchange Commission concerning the
applicability of the Securities Act of 1933 to the trans-
action under consideration and pertinent excerpts are
quoted for your information and guidanoe:
"The Commission's General Counsel has considered
the matter and has advised me that he is of the
opinion that the Seourities Act of 1933 1s applicable
to the sale of the securities in question. It is his
opinion that this conclusion is not affected by the
adoption gf/the Philippine Becurities Act of 1936.
Since no registration statement is in effect as to
any (suoh bonds, the proposed importation would appear
to involve(a violation or the Act. Although the faots
submitted are insufficient to permit any definite
conclusion to be formed on this point, no/exemption
appears to be available for the proposed importation.
"?.. You will note that the term Territory! in
Section 2 (6) of the Aot embracee the Philippine
Islands and that the term 'interstate commeros' as
defined in Beotion 2 (7), among othera, means commerce/
between 'any foreign country and any State,/Terri-
tory ...'. Further, Bection 3 does not exempt/
securities issued or guaranteed/by foreign countries
Enciphered by
M..
19.
Sent by operator
D. O. R.—No. 80
1—1408

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFIO
Department of State
Washington,
-2-
from the operat1on/of the/Act/ and/Section/7/
specifically/sets out/information/to be/inoluded
in a registration /statement relating/to a
security/issued by/a foreign government'
"As you know, unless/exempted, registration
is required/of al) securitiea offered/for sal
sold/or/delivered after/sale through the mails
or in/interstate commeree Although/the/act of
importation, of/itself, is/of coursenot pro-
hibited in the present/circumstances the/ im-
sale or for delivery/after sale."
Stull (s)
acs
894.51/660
His
800
PI:DH: DW
FE
PA/H
A-B
CA
invme
A-G
MAR 5 1940 Pi.
Re
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19.
D. O. R.—No. 50
1-1402
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.92)
DCR B.2
REORIVE1
Fale
At the end of 193s Japam had outstanding dollar bonds (Matiomal,
Mamicipal and Corporate) amoumting to approximately $249,000,000, upom
whieh the anmmal intereet service is about $14,900,000 and the sinking funed $
$7,800,000, making a total service of both interest and sinking fund of
22,700,000 per mm.
94.51
Japan's trade balances with the United States over the fourteen year
period, 1925-1938, were mfavorable to Japan at an aversge of approximately
not!
8
$3,500,000 per anmum. Im fact, during the past seven yesrs, 1932-38, it mas
6
35.51
4
mfayerahle to Japan at an average of more than $90,000,000 per amm.
5
Taking the Japanese debt as a whole, Dollar, Sterling and Frame,
amounting to approximately $623,000,000, the total interest serviee per annm
9
9
thereon mounts to approxsmately $35,900,000. Add to this the sinking fuad
peymemts on the dollar bonds of $7,800,000, and the total would be 843,700,000.
To this latter amount should be added sinking fund payments on the sterling and
frane bonds. Without the terms of contract for the Sterling and Frame bonds
it tt possible  tompute this latter sinking fund figure, but using a most
comservative figure, proportionately less than the sinking fund om the Doller
bends, one might estimate the sinking fund on the Sterling and Franc bonds to be
$7,500,000 per ammm. This would make the total debt service of Japan more
tha $51,000,000 per m.
sinking fund ($51,000,000), it might be moted that over the past fourteem years.
1925-1938, Japan had favorable balanoes with the whole world im omly two of thes
years, and that the everage bealamse, mfaverakle to Japes, for world trade, 
the past fowrtoem years, meunted to mere them $57,000,000 per m.
4.L。

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
February 24, 1940
It is not poasible to make a comparison of the Argontine
dollar bonds outstanding at the present time snd the contractual
service on that debt as against the dollar bonds of Brasil ourrent-
ly outstanding and the umount of money allocated for service upon
that debt under the so-called Ararhe Plan of February 16th, in view
of the fact that Argentine bonds outstanding are those which ware
issued in exchange for the old deller bonds under refunding opare-
tions in 1937 and the new tonde carry but 4 or 4 intorest, the
bulk et 4, whereas the original bonds called for peyments at 6%
with the exception of one issue which carried 5%. The Brusilian
outatanding bonds of the Federal Government call for interest pay-
ments ranging from 5% to B%, 7% and 8%.
However, if one were to go back to the outst nding
Argentine dollar bonds at the end of l956 and use figures before
the conversions were made either in the Government bo ds or those
of the Provinces, one would find that there were outetanding at
that time $545,000,000 worth of conde, the total contract interest
on which would amount to approximately $2k,000,000, whereas the
outstanding Brasilian dollar bonds ut the present time are a rox-
imately 356,000,000, upon which contract interest service is
$24,000,000.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.94)
It might be pointed out thu when Argentine ms waking
payments upon her dollar bonds in accordance with the con ract
she was also making large sinking fud payments on the Republic
105。
From the end of 1936 the outstanding Argentine dollar
bonde were reduced by a roxim:tely one-third ($112,000,000) so
that at the end of 1938 thore were outstanding but $23?,000,000
contract interest upon which . roximstes slightly in excess of
$10,x00,000 or loss tan hulf the amount sue or the bonle out-
standing two years previous thereto.
It would se m that wat areentins was eble to do in
two years in red cing the principal of her debt one tird (with
to cut in the original rinel al wounts borrowed), and in reduo
ing her interest puyments one-half wiih trade balances over the
past fourteen years being unfayorable to bor as tguinst the
United States with the sxception o. three years, that Brasil
could oqual or hetter, had ahe the will to do so, in view oi
favorable trade balances which the Brazili n Governmest has had
with the United tates in every year of the peet fourteen years.
It might be pointed out that Argontina's nfavorable trade bal-
tnees ith the United States over th: fo rteen years (1925-1958
inclusive) averaged $58,000,000 per ennum, mhereas rszil's
2

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.92)
favorable trade baltnces wit: the Ünited States over the seme
period varaged = proxim:tely v72,0 0,000 per annum.
Argentint's contract interest service on her  resently
outstanding dollar bouds is bout 10,000,000 per year, whereas
Prazil is offering unde: the Plan of February 16, 1940 for inter-
est on the doller bonds a roximstely $4,800,00.
A.R.W。
fp

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
121692
Handed by Mr. Officer, Australian
Counselor of Embassy, to Mr.
RECEIVED
Hornbeck on February 23, 1940.
ARTMENT OF STATH
c. ch
1940 MAK 7 AM 9 36
dngision of
LASTERN AEAIRS
Aa
MNIDATIONS
Deparknent of State
ECK
Copisg sent to Tokyo, hondon, Panis
S
Before the outbreak of the war, Japanese firms
were negotiating for the purchase of Australian wheat on credit.
After the outbreak of war the Australian Government acquired all
wheat including the crop harvested in December and appointed a
894.51/662
wheat board to market it.
894.51
Negotiations between Japan and the board led to the
submission of the matter to the Commonwealth Government in
October. At that time, marketing prospects for Australian wheat
were very poor and it seemed that alternative sales on credit
were indefinitely stopped with all attendant costs and risks.
The Government, therefore, agreed to deal in respect of 200,000
tons of wheat, 18 months credit from the date of the first ship-
ment, purchasers to lift the wheat. The first shipment was made
on December 28th, 1939.
Since the conclusion of the above deal, there have
been negotiations between Australian flour millers and Japanese
firms for the purchase of wheat flour on credit. The Australian
Government have not encouraged or authorized those negotiations.
The Government have also rejected other proposals for further
P1 1940
FILED
wheat sales on credit.
0.
AUSTRALIAN LEGATION,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
FEBRUARY 21st, 1940.
F/N

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
121693
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
 ON POLITICAL RELA
IONAL ECÓNIC AFFAIRS
IR. HORNBECK
MAR131940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
JHARTMENT OF
1940 MAR 7 AM 9 36
DATE: February 23, 1940
SUBJECT:
Extension by Australia of gredits to Japan, north China
24le
AND RECORDS
OCR
PARTICIPANTS:
MR, GRADY
Mr. F. Keith Officer, Australian Gounselor of
Cohies sent to Tokyo, fondm, Paris
the British Embassy.
Ch Sydney Shanghait
Mr. Hornbeck.
COPIES TO:
I Peifing (Chlengking)
000
DIVISION OF
UIVISION OF
TRADE AGREEMINTS
MAR 12 1940
FW 894.51/662
TA
894.51
MAR 14 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
280
1-1408
Reference, aide-mémoire handed
Mr. Hornbeck on February 10, 1940.
Mr. Officer called today and read to me the contents
of an aide-mémoire, which he left with me, which is
here attached.
Mr. Officer stated in addition that he wanted to
make mention of a matter about which his Government had
had
A
FILED
to the United States: he said that in Australia there Is
a feeling that Australian sales of flour are considerably
handicapped in competition with American sales by and in
consequence of the assistance -- "in the nature of a bonus" --
which American shippers have been given by American official
F/N
action.
工

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
I said that I would make report of what Mr.
Officer had said.
Stanley K. Hornbeck
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.86)
March 5 1940
Gonsul Gaseral,
China.
The Bearetary of State enoloses for the comesd
siml imformation of the American Consul General eepéma
ét eertein documents, as listed below, in regere to 
Matter of extemsion by Australin of eredits to Jepans.
morth Chine and Dairen, for the purohase of whemt fkour
1662
of Jammary 13
ler from

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.90)
March 6
CONFIDENTIAL
STARPONI
To the Amerioan Consul General,
Shanghal, China.
The Seoretary of State encloses for the confiden-
tial information of the American Consul General copies
of eertain doouments, as listed below, in regard to the
894.51/662
matter of extension by Australia of oredits to Japan,
morth China and Dairen, for the purohase of wheat flour.
Easlesures:
1. Letter of Jamuary 13
to Me. Wheeler from
.Malles.
2. Lester ef Jamary 25
to Me. Mallen from
3.
ra hasded

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.90)
March 5.1940
19.13
mbriean Ambassador,
The Seeretary of State enolomes for the comfie
894.51/662
tial information of the American Ambassador eopiem or
amrtain dosuments, as listed below, in regard to the
matter of extension by Australia of eredits to Japem,
Merth Chine and Dairen, for the purohase or wheat flowr.
Lester or January 13 to
eler frem Mr. Mallon.
Famary25 to
 to Mr.
10 with
EX

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.91)
151040
CONFIDRNTIAL
NIY
0.1913
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State enoloses for the oonfiden-
tial information of the American Ambassador copies of
894.51/662
certain doouments, as listed below, in regard to the
matter of extension by Australie of credita to Japan,
morth Chine and Dairen, for the purchase or wheat flour.
Enelosures:
1. Letter er January 13 to
Mr. Wheeler frem Mr. Mallon.
2. Lester of Jammary 25 to
Me. Mallea frem Me. Eamilton.
 of ccnvereation
handed to

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.91)
March 5 1940
 - SAL USE H
1259
 V. Johason, Esquire,
Ameriean Charg& d'Affaires ad intorim,
Lomdon.
sirt
894.51/662
There are enslosed for your informatiom copies of
sertain documents, as listed below, in regard to the
matter of extension by Australia of credits to Japan,
north China and Dairen for the purchase of wheat and
wheat flour. You will note that reference is made in
the tag memorandum of February 1 attached to the thind
emslosure and in the fourth enelosure to the attituée
of the Department in regard to the extension of oredits
to Japas. That attitude may be summarized as follows:
As a result of the operation of exchange control in
Japan and the diffioulty of getting funds out of Jepan
the Depertment of Commercs on June 6, 19se, advised ex-
porters to have e confirmed, irrevocable letter of eredis
im their hamés before asoepting orders for shipments to
Sapem. Mch the same situation in reference to e
emseul exists in Manchuzia. Moreover, in the lighe of
 Ct ee Japaa's military astivities ia Chi have
meé and are costisuing to reslt ia serione iagury
ise asd latereste, is has ben the

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.90)
y ar indiaeesly, Japua's aetivia
Réhim shas eategory of estion and aseeaia
eat has endeavored, quietly and iafe
Whe ox Japan in China. So far as the Department im mape
there have been no substantial deviations by Amerienn
fimeneial institutions and American sellers of comhodition
twem the poliey desired by the Department. We believe than
the atsitude of the British Government in regard to this
matser is similar to our owm.
The Departmemt desires that you bear in mimd its
pesition as outlined above, that you continue to keep the
Department informed of British polioy and action in regard
to this matter and shat, should cccasion therefor arime,
you sanfidentially and orally acquaint the appropriate
offieials of the British Govermment with the contents of
the aide mimoire which was handed to the Australian Gomnseles
of the British Embassy om February 10, 1940, and of the
Amatmalian Legation's side-mémoire of February 2l, 1940.
Tery truly yours,
For the Sesratary of state:
A. A. BERL,R

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
conversnsion
Sydmey, Paris, Tokyo,
Field distribution: London,
Peiping (Chungking), Shanghai.
MAR
1940
PAHEA

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.89)
March 5 1940
wilquire
American Consul Gemeral,
Sydney, Anstralia.
81x1
There are enelosed for your information copies of
sertain doouments, as listed below, in regard to the
matter of ertension by Australia of credits to Japan,
894.51/662
mesth Chime and Dairen for the purohase of wheat and
wheat flour. Tou will note that reference is mede in
the tag memorandum of February 1 attached to the third
enslosure and in the fourth onclosure to the attituds of
the Bepartment in regard to the extension of oredits of
Japam. That attitude may be summarized as follows:
As a result of the operation of erehange control in
Zmpan and the dirficulty of getting funds out of Japan
the Department of Commerce on June 6, 19s8, advised ex-
perters to have a confirmed, irrevocable letter of eredit
In their hamds before accepting orders for shipmemés to
Japam. Mach the same situation in referenee to exahange
sontrel wrists in Manckuria. Moreover, in the light of
ahe fest that Japan's military activities in Chima have
masmlted end are contimming to result in serions émjury
t met righte and interests, it has besn the e of
8
eem soverment that imerieen fiasmoial iammi

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
ot take amy mation which would fmslli
aireetly or indirestly, Japan's metivision.
aregards the extension of oredit to Jap
within that category of motion and accerdimgly
ant has endeavored, quiesly and informally
almsousage the extension of oredit to Japan or for the use
of Japem in China. So far es the Department is aware there
have been no substantial deviations by American financial
imstitutions and Amerioan sellers of commodities from the
peliey desired by the Department. We believe that the
astisude of the British Government in regard to this matter
im mimilar to our own.
The Department desires that you endeavor to follow
wish care the question of possible further extension of
Gredits to Japan or Japanese-controlled areas in Ohina by
the Austrelian Government or by private oitizens in
Australia and that, should occasion therefor arise, you
brims again, confidentially and orally, to the attention
ef appropriate Australian muthorities the importancs whiek
she Depertment attaches to the matter of non-extension of
Gredits to Japan or for the use of Japen in Ohimm.
Very truly yours,
For the Seereterr
of State:
BERLE, JR.
copy of
erigl
of Janmary 1s to
10

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
12169
Sydney, London, Paris, Tokye,
Field distributions
Peiping (Chungking), Shangh

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT National bonds, amounting to yen 660,000,000 were issued
by the Government during December. Amount of Government
bonds floated during the year reached the figure of
Yen 5,298,000,000.
894.51/
663
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#4457
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, stc.)
Dated
Jan. 30, 1940
From/ Ja pan (Grew)
To
File No.
894.00 P.R./145
N
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540
663

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
74.51
National bonds, emounting eltogethěr tq Yen 660,000,000
were issued by the Government during December. The rate of
absorpticn improved over that for Novenber, representing
75.2 per cent as against 62 per cent for the previous month.
The absorption or bonds for the entire year was given as
89.2 per cent. This figure showed a gain in total amount
of bonds absorbed over that for the year of 1938, when the
amount reached was 87.4 per cent. However, during 1939
the assimilation of bonds fell off narkedly in the last half
of the year, when it was only 77 per cent, as compared with
l04 per cent for the first half of the year.
The emount of Government bonds floated during the year
reached the figure of Yen 5,298,000,000, which raised the
total national bonded indebtedness to Yen 21,520,200,000
as of December 31, 1939. It is noted that this amount rep-
resented a dcubling of the national debt of Janan since
1937 and that, if the issuance of bonds is continued at
the

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
-30.
the present rate, the naticnel debt will egain be doub-
led in four years' tims.
There was an unprecedented increase in the note is-
sue of the Bank of Japan during Dacember. On December
30 notes outstanding reched the figure of Yen 3,818,000,c00,
a record high, and represented an increase of Yen 872,000,-
ooo from the end of November.
Moreover, on December 30,
the logal limit reportedly was exceeded by Yen 1,ll6,000,-
ooo. It has been the usual practice for the note issues
to be increased at the end of eech year, largely beceuse
of the annual settlements of accounts, but the amount of
the increase this yeer greatly exceeded that usually in-
curred. It represented en increase of approximately Yen
1,000,000,000, as compared to that at the end of 1938. It
was said that this increase abeut equaled the amount of
Government bonds issued in 1939 which had not been absorbed
and that one of the contributing causes for the increase in
the note issue was the falling off in the assimilation of
bonds flosted.by the Government.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
panese budget is one
se national incomet
covered oy revenue?
that the interest on the bonded debt alome
one-third of the govermment inaome
that Japan atands today where Germany stood im
Where Japan will be a yeer henee, is expiained im
follbwing exolusive artiole by Hr. John Ahlers.Ch
earrespondent of the Lonaon Eoonomiet,the Amsterdam
the Open Door in China.")
-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-
JAPAN FINANC IAL: 194O - 1941
664
élties in
decisive year In The Sino-Japanese Wag
Shang
nekong
-0-0-0-
894.51
Gaung-
By John Ahlers
On New Year Day, 1940, the Sino-Japamm
Iato ite deoisive year, Not that the war is limmly
some to an end within twelve months from now. the
fore l94k. and posaibly may draw out 
. However. thla new year of 1940 is most likely
ss not only ths climax, but alme tho beginnin
deeline in Japanese military expansion in 
ma will wear out the Japane
of farthar conquest wilk be éxhmusted.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
Indfeatora o  Crs
When Japan invaded China in July, 1937, the op
In the Anglo-Saxon ccuntries that fur economio and financlal
reasons Japan coul: not afford to fight a pcctracted war. That
opinion proved erroneous. Today, after twe nd a haif years of
war in China, foreign publio opinion tends to the equa ly erroneous
viow that Japan, having held out so long, can contirnue to fight for
an indefinite length of t ime. She cannot. Her fighting strength.
like that of any pver in the werld. is finitely circumeorihed,
and she noy is rapidly appr ching the 1
unite
ind icat ions thet at an ever accelerat ing pice Japan is exhaisting
hermelf, and that she is no longer very far from collapse.
The best indicators of the tconomic and finanoial orists
Into which the wear end tear of the China war has plung:d Da1
Nippon are:
Her budgetary defioit;
(3) her inflat ion, and
(4) her shortages cf foreign exchange, of raw materials,
and of other important commodities.
For the Nipponesn fisoal year 1940-41 wh1oh begins on pr1l
1, 194e, the Tokyo Government has draftt: the highest expendituree,
the sharpest tax inoreases, the largest deficit, and the most
extenmive bond iesue in the history of Jepen. The draft budgot
totals Yem 10,300,000,000. This compares with a Japanes6 nat ional
menme, meoprding to a recent investigntion by the Japan Economio
Pederating, or less than Yon 30,000,000,000. Yet the Japanese
fighting foroes assert that the budget is not suffioint to
cover their requiremente for the war in China, and demand on
addit ional Yen 2,000, 000,000 whioh the Jepanese Governmemt is
sompelled to refuse.
How Budget And Now Bonds
Row doem this budgut compare with Jepan's revemme? Cursent
mime mevenee of the Jupanese Government, ell mources eonsidered.
1ese then o-third of the Yen 10,300,000,000 expenses drarted
foz thm mgrt imeal year. By means of a steey inerease in the
mates of moss items of taxations, as weli as thrmgh the latrotm
the totel estimated axpend: tures, thoze remaime a defielt at
unattatmeble, the Tokyo Government onoe more proposes to soves

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.95)
proved erroneous. Today, after two and a half y
viow that Japen. having held out so long, can continne to fl
s indefinite length of t ime. She cannot. Her fighting strengt
and she now is rapidly approaching the limits. Tnere are definite
Ind icat ions thet at an ever accelerat ing pace Japan is exhaisting
horself, and tlat she is no longer very far from ccllapse.
The best indicatore of the economic and financial orisi
Into which the wear end tear of the China war hes plungsd Dai
Nippon are:
Her buagetary defioit;
her hugs indebtedness;
(4) her shortages cf foreign exchange, of raw materials,
and of other important commodities.
For the Nipponesn f1soal year 1940-41 vhich begins on pr1l
1, 1940, the Tokyo Govtrnment has draft the highest expenditures,
the sharpest tax inoreases, the largest defioit, and the most
extensive bond issue in the history of Jepen. The draft budgot
totals Ym 10,300,000,000. This compares with a Japanes6 nat ional
monme, acoording to a recent investigntion by the Japan Economie
Pederat1og, of less than Yen 30,000,000,000. Yet the Japanese
figating foroes assert that the budget is not suffioint to
cover their requirements for the war in China, and demand an
addit ional Yen 2,000, 000,000 whioh the Japanese Government is
compelled to refuse.
Now Budget And New Bonds
How doem this budget oompare with Jepan's revemue? Current
muine revenae of the Jupanese Governmont, ell aources ponsidered.
La 10ss than one-third of the Yen 10,300, 000,000 expenses drafted
for the ngt fiscal year. By means of a steep inorease in the
zatts of most items of taxations, as wel; as thrugh the introdmessem
t mem tames, the Mokyo Govexument expeuts t, ra lse in 1940-41
to Tem 4.249,000,000. This be ing, howe rer, no more than 40 peraem
of the total estimated epend: tures, thare remeins a defieit of
appsoximately Yen 6.000,000,000. As foro1gn crcdits remuin
umattatmeble, th Tokyo Government onoe more proposes to coves
this defielt through the issue of new domestio loans.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
of Japan note issue at the end or No
Yem 2,900:000,000, establishing another all-tim
dese finenciers readily agree that this record will be
ded in the months to come. Since th outbrenk of the Oht
he note ciroulation has elmost doubled, while the aggrep
me of prodnotion has not inorsesed, and imports heve declir
th large portion of Japanese production ebsorbed by the we
 molume of goods oiroulating in the country contracted substh
tallyt therefore the doubling of the note issue clearly means
viglous inflat lon. The incregse in the note oiroulation since
uly. 1937, 1s. Yen 1,400,000.000. As ths Bank of Japan expanded
ts advance to bus nees by only Yen 100,000,000 (accounted for by
prioe inoreases), it fineneed war bonds to the extent of Yon
300 000,000. In fact, at the end of 1939 the Bank of Japan
held over Yen 1,800,000,000 in such bonds which formed 50 pencent
of its total assets. Here it is especially clear that Japan is
about to reach the limit of her capacity for financing the Chins
waT
The gold coverage of the Japanese note ciroulation was
little less then 50 percent at the beginning of host ilities. According
to the offioial statement of Bank of Japen, it is at present below
20 peroent, with the apprecistion of the golu reserves subseouent
to the recent yen devaluet lon fully considered. But ths actuel
gold reserve und the gold coverage of the note ciroulation are
still smaller than official figures indicate. American experts
estimete the present totel of Dai Nippon?s gold reserve et less
than U3$100,000,000. This.reserve is 1ergely tied up in the
financing of Japanese imports of American war supplies.
Exohange Control and Gold Reserves
The yen has become a completely controlled currency with
an artificial official rate of exohange of 23.45 American cents
for one yen. In the Shenghai open money merket, hovever, yen
notea throughout 1939 were sold at rates below, and freguently
far below, ten American cents. But foreign exchango control of
the yen failed also to achieve its main purpose, viz.,to produoe
an export surplus in foreign exchange. The Japanese balanoe of
trade,it is true, wae very favorable in l939, yielding en export
purplua of over Yen 800,000.000. This surplus, however, came
exclusively from the trade with Japen's odcupied arees on the
Asiatio mainland, which,having been inaluded in the so-called
yen bloc, fail to produce foreign exchenge. In Japan's trade with
the countries outside of the yon bloc imports for 1939 surpassed
exports by some Ust125,000,000, and in the absence of addit ional
foroigm trade oredits Japan had to pay out this amount in gold.
Throughout l939 Japan shipped gold to the United Stetes. Approzimate
half of this gold came from her om gold production and from
formten exohange revenue (ehipping and investments abroad),but
other hatt tad tu be taken cut of the Bank of Japan's reser
ive months these reserves are bound to be exhaust
dom mot further out down on imports.
hunge control. however, so considerably redue
raw materials - especially cott on,wool woo
Dai Nippon's peace inoustries that the latt
lonto an unprccedented oxtent. Moat
rom Go to 40 percent or capauil
hai produation of the textile

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.89)
of the munit lons plants. The shortago of foreign sm domestle goode
for generml consumption grsotly iroreased throughout 1939. Mony
goods ere altogether leoking, othre  re inferior in quality am
Imereased in mice, fnd en ever mcunting number (f commodities i
be ing rati onel on the basis of ticket systeme. Since the early
utumn of 1939, these ehortages wer: felt in such fundamental
goods of J psneee oonsumption as rice. Their seyerity - cna the
lam of the people - vere enanced by the bvious ineffioienoy
f the bureruoracy in npplying, after th German pattern,produetion,
istr&bution, :nd price oontrois.
Germany 1917 - Japam 1939
On the whole, J..pan economically and financially at prsseit
stanis wher durine the first Torld Tar Germany stood in the summer
of 1917. Japm is todcy, as Gtrmany was then, at the height f he
nilitary suceese. But the limits of her capaoity to bxr te war
straln are elearly in eight, her system of war aconomy is obvioumly
deterioratins, n? fir: her strongthoasd fficial control and
pressuse om only lead t' mure pronoumotd manifsstations of the
atorte mings of n socuomy basioully too vtak t: stend the strain
of tm entorprise ud :rt:ken.
In 191? the allies hela out, tna the United States joined
them. Tray if China'ε frimus, end the western interests in
Chine wlich hwe been victimized by the J pares:, hola out against
Jepmn for unoth" year, Jepan will most likaly find he reelr in the
sams mituatiom in whioh Otrmeny found herstlf in tht nutumn of
 the wustern demoorasies for enother year live up to the
not ditlons mentioned, the ohendeo ere ten to oe
 wir ee Japth so exheugted tat whet 
dw hr foroes from Ch na WihI He longur be  prou
mt e thrte reservet ions, in lesa t haa twelve aonth
oed towthdrow,or by en ew
eau er ar restrver tnd Fomourees, and she wnl have to
rosmat from Chime whether shs wante t, or not.
一
DOo

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LONDON, Apri1 5, 1940.
DIYISION OF
EUROPEAN AFFALS
No. 5023
APR 23 194
SUBJECT: Australian Credits to Japdn.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ÉF SATE
40   2 2
MAY -1940
A40
S
NOTED
Derartment of State
EVED
DVISION OF
EEPARENTO
10
For Distribuion-Check
Yea
No
894.51/665
Grade 
To fi=l1
For
In U.S.▲.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER GN
I  S
APR 241940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR. HORNBECK
APR 221940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 9-1940
FILED
894.511
The Honorable
APR 25 1940
The Seoretary of State,
MR. WELLES
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's in-
struction No. 1259 of March 5, 1940, and to report that a
F/FG
suitable occasion was made to convey its contents to the
appropriate official of the British Treasury who stated
that he had not received any information about this matter
from the Australian representative in Washington and that
ho

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
he did not, in fact, kmow that the credit facility was for
so long as eighteen months. He went on to say that he was
very glad to have this information which would come in use-
ful in discussions with the Australians who also in the
matter of wool favored too free dealings with Japan. He
stated that the British authorities were having some diffi-
culty in keeping the Australians "in line" but that in the
case of wool the British hands were strengthened by the fact
that they had bought the whole Australian wool clip and they
could force their policy, if not their convictions, upon the
Australians to the end that Japan would receive wool ship-
ments in orderly, rationed amount.
He went on to say that it was Great Britain's aim to
keep Japan, insofar as possible, "on a short string" and not
to permit her to build up unusually large stocks of key raw
materials originating in the Empire but that in almost every
instance the practical working out of such an aim entailed
overcoming many difficulties.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
HerselulvJoluson
Herschel v. Johnsoh
Counselor of Embassy
WWB/JC

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.94)
149
C
.INTEL DIV
REST7-H89
G-2 RCPORT
5020
JAPAN(1)
ubject:
Government Budget.
LELS
Ipropristions for iscal Year
20.11. 5c.  5
OBD tetter, May 3. 1872
1940-1941.
1. The 75th Diet whion hus recently djourncd is reported
as having autuorizea expenditures amounting to over
¥15,000,000,000 for the f1sca1 yeur 1940-1941. f this
amount certain itams are et this time cleurly cefined,
while others remain either uncisolosed or so clouceù and un-
8
biguous tnat nothing corinite can as yet be aetermined con-
6
cerning them. The clearly dufined items ure as follows.
4
General ..ccounts.
51/
A1940
GEOEOES
a.
The followins itemization of tne oneral accounts
Indioates that certain reductions have neen mede since
9
thuse accounts were originally submitted (heport No.
666
9986).
Ordinary
xtraordinary
Tot al
mperial
Household
4,500,000
4,500,000
Toreign
23,605,000
40,474.000
64,079,000
Home
336,861,000
173,955.000
510,816,000
Finance
1,097,925,000
724,311.000
1,822,236,000
Tar
182,019,000
1,092,761,000
1,274,781,000
Navy
351.298.000
677,646.000
1,028,945,000
Justice
51.536,000
5.565,000
57,101,000
Lducation
159.122,000
27,541.000
136,663,000
ngriculture &
Forestry
62.036,000
148,598,000
210,434,000
Commerce 
Inaustry
9,214,000
80,526,000
9,939.000
Communioations
297,175.000
70,058,000
367,233,000
Uverseas
.ffairs
2,950,000
52,894,000
G
5,844,000
.elfare
84.267.000
66.123.000
~199.391.00
Total
￥ 2,662,709,000 ￥3,150,253,000
.8,962.000
Mote: There are small disoreyuncies in the above table
to the fact that the figures ure iven in round number
3. In the lust few duys of the viet two surplement
were passed. The details of these expenultures ared
arally known. They inolude various itemo to tus a
ministries for purposes such as relief measurss, 
of industries, und other matters oonnected with
general interior conditions of the country.
mentary budgets are as follows:
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Roport No. 10,075

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
lst Supplementary
￥ 57.684,809
2nd Supplementary
216,684,322
China Incident.
The total appropriations for the oarrying on of the
war in China are itemized as follows:
Army
￥2,973,000,000
Navy
737.000.000
Reserve Fund
750.000.000
Total
￥ 4,460,000,000
5. The total of the above appropriations amounts to the
following:
Ordinary .coounts
￥ 5,822,962,000
lst Supplementary
57.684.809
2nd Supplementary
216.684,322
China Incident
4.460.000.000
f
Total
￥ 10,559,331,131
6
for 1940-1941 and that of 1939-1940 (ep0rt 0. 9754).
1939-1940
1940-1941
Regular Budget
￥ 3,694,666,976
5,822,962,000
lst Supplementary
910.543.937
57,684,809
6
2nd supplementary
199.332,614
216,684,322
9
China Inoident
4.605.000,000
4.460,000,000
rotal
￥ 9,409,543,527
￥10,559,331,131
It will be notioed from the above table that, in spite
of a somewnat smaller appropriation for the hine Inoident,
and a smaller total of the two supplementary buugets, the
ordinary accounts for 1940-1941 are sufficiently grester to
account for a total increuse of ¥1,149,787,604.
7.
The difference between tne above total for 1940-
1941 and the ¥15,000,000,000 mentioned in ar. 1 does
not so fur appear with surfioient clarity to enable
any but the most general statements to be made con-
cerning it. It is thought that a portion of this sum
is involved in a new long term (4 years) plan for
reequipping and gonerally renovating the army and navy,
and other portions devoted to interior improvements,
improvements in the colonies, developing industry, and
other kindred items. The finanoing of the army im-
provement projeot is at present obscured in a maze of
transfers of funds from other acoounts whioh will render
any but the disbursements for the year 1940-1941 very
difrioult to traee notwithstanding the fact that the
plans for the sums to be expended are stated with a
fair degree or olarity.
b. Details of the special acoounts ure not at prosent
available.
From: /., Tokyo.
Report No. 10,075
April 8, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
work of translating suon details of the budget as
obtainable is going on. When this work has been
sted and further details as to the total sppropriations
peoial accounts tecome available a more detailed analysis
1 be forwarded.
Souree:
Press
Offioial CGazette
Earry I. T. Crezwell,
Lieut. Colonel, Aoting General taff,
Military .ttaohe.
Distribution:
G-2
N/A
File
From: M/a, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,075
April 8, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Government Finance - Japan.
Report concerning - for month of April, 1940.
aa
894.51/667
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#4715
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, Ietter, eto.)
From
DatedMay15.1940
Japan (Grew).
To
File No.
894.00 P.R./149
U. . GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
The first of the new bond issues scheduled for the
new fiscal year was offered in April to the amount of
four hundred million yen. The rate of bond absorption
694.51
for April was better than that for March, reportedly being
90.8%, but far below that for the previous year. Appre-
ciable concern was shown over the failure of the country
adequately to absorg the bonds being floated by the Govern-
ment, and despite the prediction made by the Government
in 1939, that Japan would not have to resort to compulsory
savings, a step in that direction appeared to be enviseged
through a semi-compulsory system of savings by means of
deductions from salary at the source. It was reported
that the system is to be instituted in the near future.
Japan's note issue again increased during April,
reaching an "all time high.'
VI.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
OF
Bulletin No. 18
REOEIVED
JUL 8 1940
WARTIME PUBLIC FINANCE OF JAPAN
894.51
894.51/668
A
Prepared and Issued by
The Chinese Council For Ebonomic Research
Washington, D. C.
June 28, 1940
JuL 1940
FILED
Address:
Room 326, 1410 H Street, N.W.
F/FG
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Copyright, 1940 by The Chinese Council For
Economic Research, Washington, D. C.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
Page
I. PUBLIC FINANCE DURING THE PRE-WAR YEARS
1-6
Revenue and Expenditure
1
Public Debt
4
Summery
5
II. PUBLIC FINANCE DURING THE WAR YEARS
6-26
The Economic Problem of War
6
The Scale of Japan's Finances
7
1. The General Account
7
a. Development of taxation
7
b. Receipts
11
C.
Expenditure
12
d. Budget estimates for 1940-41
13
2. The Unified Budget
14
3. The Temporary War Expenditure Special Account
16
4. Local Finances
17
5. Japan's Total National Finances
18
Direct Cost of the War
20
Public Debt
21
Summary
24
III. APPENDIX
Table A:
State Receipts from Taxes, 1928-29 - 1939-40
Table B:
State Revemue, 1928-29 - 1940-41
Table C:
State Expenditure, 1928-29 - 1939-40
Table D:
Temporary War Expenditure Special Account
Table E:
Government Bond Issues, 1937-40
Table F:
Budget Estimates of General Account Revenue
and Expenditure for 1940-41

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
-I:
INTRODUCTION
During the past few decades the development of capitalism in Japan has moved
ahead with impressive speed. In the final analysis it is this maturing process of
her capitalistic economy which is the driving force behind her never ceasing at-
tempts of recent years to dominate and control China politically and economically.
This lust for territorial conquest imposes on Japan's economy the two-fold burden of
organizing her resources both for the waging of war and for the economic exploitation
of the spoils.
Any such ambitious program calls for a tremendous economio effort and it is of
greatest importance to know how Japan has been able to cope with it during the past
few years. What we are especially interested in knowing are the dimensions of the
financial effort involved in the mobilization of Japan's economic resources behind
her imperialist ambitions in continental Asia.
Because of the enormous purchasing power available to the Government in time of
war the monetary scale of the Budget necessarily dominates the economic activity and
structure of the country and public finance becomes of paramount importance.
The scope of the present bulletin will be confined to an examination of the
financial effort and methods on the part of the Government to prosecute the war and
to a brief analysis of the country's public finance in the pre-war years in order to
have a base for comparison. As private borrowing is not eliminated by public spend-
ing, the need for funds by both Government and industry will press hard in the credit
market and only an integrated analysis of the development in terms of real and fin-
ancial resources can reveal the amount of strain which the war exerts on the economy
at large.
This bulletin is intended to serve as introductory information to the finanoial
side of the war effort, and it should always be borne in mind that behind "the veil
of money" important changes in terms of real phenomena occur, which probably cannot
and will not be reversed when the war is over.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
I. PUBLIC FINANCE DURING THE PRE-WAR YEARS
Reyemue and Expenditure
A brief review of receipts and expenditures of the national Government in the
pre-war years will give us some idea about the atate of Japan's public finances when
she entered the war.
Japan, like the rest of the world, suffered from a serious decline in business
activity during the years 1929 to 193l. Total receipts in the general account (ex-
cluding proceeds of loans and transfer of surpluses) showed a continuous shrinkage
aince the fiscal year 1929-30 and reached their lowest level in the fiscal year
1932-33, when they stood 14 per cent below the 1929-30 level. Since 1932-33,
espeoially under the pressure of the "Manchurian Incident", Japan has abandoned all
attempts made during the early depression years to balance the budget and has em-
barked on a policy of deficit spending, financed by borrowing and combined with the
creation of liberal supplies of money through the banking system. This policy
brought about a general rise in employment and output and with the gradual restora-
tion of the level of income, Government revenues rose again and in 1936-37 were well
1
above the 1928-29 level.
Fluctuations in the Revenue from Taxes, 1928-1937*
(1928-29 = 100)
Fiscal year
1929-30 1930-31 1931-32 1932-33 1933-34 1934-351935-36 1936-37
Type of taxes
Direct taxes
97.6
98.1
76.9
72.3
78.7
91.0
106.5
131.7
Income tax
96.7
97.0
69.9
65.8
77.2
95.0
110.0
133.8
Indirect taxes
98.3
92.2
87.9
81.8
87.8
96.8
99.4
107.4
Sake tax
102.9
92.8
80.1
75.2
88.6
92.7
88.8
93.4
Customs duties
90.2
69.8
75.7
69.8
75.5
95.7
100.2
115.4
Others
91.3
84.3
84.2
92.9
87.9
90.7
91.6
107.3
Total taxes
97.5
93.5
84.0
79.7
84.9
94.4
101.0
115.3
Total receipts**
99.0
94.7
88.4
85.8
95.6
92.0
95.3
110.2
* Source: Appendix, Table A.
** Excluding proceeds of loans and transfer of surplus.
1/ For detailed data, see Appendix, Table A.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
2
The above table indicates that the fluctuation in total receipts was almost
entirely due to the fluctuations in the yield of taxation. In general direct tares
declined faster and to lower levels than did indirect taxes during the depression
and showed a similar behaviour in the opposite direction during the recovery. Dur-
ing the period under consideration no important changes were made in the rates of
taxation. In l935-36 a special profits tax, levied on excess profits, was intro-
duced. In regard to the importance of direct and indirect taxes in Japan's national
tax structure, the percentage share of direct taxes in total receipts from taxes
increased considerably during the upswing.
In regard to expenditures, total expenditures under the general account were
curtailed during the depression and reached their lowest level in l93l-32, when
they stood at 86 per cent of those of 1928-29. The net effect of this deflationary
policy was that the reduction in expenditures added to the decline in national in-
come by reducing the Government's demand for goods and services. The rise in
reverue which took place during the recovery has, however, been outweighed by the
rise in expenditures. After 193l-32 expenditures have increased mainly because of
higher appropriations for the army and navy, increased requirements for debt ser-
vice and for public works which had been postponed during the depression, and relief
1
needs. The importance of the ensuing deficits is best illustrated by the percentage
of total expenditures covered by revenue other than proceeds of loans and transfer
of surpluses from preceding years. In l932-33 expenditures were already higher than
1n 1928-29.
1/ For inoreases in departmental expenditures see Appendix, Table 0.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
General Account Expenditures and Receipts
(in million yen)
1928-891931-32 1932-33
1933-34  1934-351935-36 1936-37
Total expenditures
1,814.9
1,476.9
1,950.1
2,254.7
2,163.0
2,206.5
2,282.2
Total receipts*
1,551.6
1,371.7
1,331.5
1,483.6
1,427.4
1,478.0
1,709.6
Deficit
263.6
105.2
618.6
771.0
735.6
709.6
572.6
Percentage of ex-
penditure covered
by revenue*
85.4
92.9
68.3
66.6
66.0
66.0
82.1
Excluding proceeds of loans and transfer of surplus.
This increase in expenditures and deficits reflects to a large extent the rising
tide of military and armament expenditures which have come to represent not only a
heavy burden upon the budget, but also an increasing drain upon the national income.
Military Expenditures
Fiscal
% of Total
% of National
Year
Amount
Expenditures
Income*
1930-31
442,859,231
28.4
4.2
1931-32
454,616,815
30.8
5.0
1932-33
686,384,697
35.2
6.9
1933-34
872,620,060
38.7
7.2
1934-35
941,881,532
43.5
7.2
1935-36
1,032,936,577
46.8
7.0
1936-37
1,078,169,915
47.2
6.6
The percentage figures are based on estimates made by the
research division of the "Japan Eoonomic Federation" as
given in their publication "National Income of Japan,
1930-39", p. 48. In spite of serious shortcomings, these
estimates seem to be the best available at the present.
Ebonomically, armament expenditures, if financed by borrowing have an effect
similar to public works - they were certainly one of the main contributing factore
in Japan's speedy recovery. But they have disadvantages too. Armament expenditures
are of an unproductive nature; they are spent on objects which will not produce any
revenue from which the service of the debt, which has been incurred for this purpose,

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
may be met and a growing amount of the national income will have to be raised in the
form of taxation to meet at least the interest on these debts. In the long run,
this will most likely lead to budgetary difficulties. As far as the short run is
concerned, these armament expenditures had the effect of putting Japan's industry on
a semi-war footing and the resulting preparedness economy has certainly eased some
of the difficulties to be encountered when an economy is switched from a peace to a
war economy. In this sense they contributed to the war potential of the country and
facilitated the complete transition in the initial stages of the war.
Public Debt
These budget deficits, resulting from heavy armament expenditures and financed
by borrowing, have naturally led to a growth in the long-term public debt. While
the debt grew more rapidly than the national income during the first three years of
the recovery, this trend was reversed during 1935 and the national income of the
Japanese Empire increased faster than the public debt. The relevant data are given
in the table below.
Debt as Percentage
Debt Outstanding*
Debt per Head**
Service of Debt
of the National
Year
(In ¥ 1,000)
(Yen)
(In ¥ 1,000)
Income***
1929
5,905,718
64.735
280,343
1930
6,029,162
65.263
272,517
50.3
1931
6,002,805
63.716
213,844
57.4
1932
6,548,750
65.450
241,480
57.1
1933
7,821,271
73.409
334,792
57.1
1934
8,650,912
83.457
361,285
58.0
1935
9,580,891
91.818
371,854
55.8
1936
10,395,205
97.416
363,353
54.5
1937
11,892,949
103.809
50.3
*
End of December.
**
End of March.
水**
National income figures for the Japanese Empire have been
used. "Japan Eoonomic Federation", op. cit., p. lol.
The cost of manegement of the debt has not grown as rapidly as the debt itself,
due to the reduction in interest rates, which made it possible to convert part of

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
the debt on favorable terms and to contract new debt on cheaper terms. The yield on
Government bonds, which is a fair indicator of the terms on which new borrowing
operations can be conducted, has been appreciably reduced since l932. Thus during
1936 on five occasions 5 per cent Exchequer bonds were converted into 3.5 per cent
loans, the amount of conversions totalling 2,136 million yen.
Summary
From an unorthodox point of view the state of Japan's public finances before the
outbreak of the war seeme to have been rather satisfactory. In spite of the growth
of the public debt and its more or less "dead weight" nature, revemue from taxes in-
creased more than the requirements of the debt service and, in the light of these
results, deficit spending financed by borrowing is justified and sound from the fis-
cal point of view. It should be mentioned, however, that principal retirements have
been reduced considerably in recent years, but as the maturity ofmost of the outstanding
bonds falls rather late, this policy will hardly impair Japan's finances in the near
future. The burden of taxation, if compared with that of other countries, does not
seem to be too heavy, at least as far as the industrial and commercial community is
concerned. It is only too well known how crushing the burden of taxation has always
been for the agricultural community, especially the small farmers. The development
of taxation during the war years indicates that there were reserves which the Govern-
ment could tap to replace at least part of the necessary borrowing by taxation.
Available statistical evidence suggests also that the heavy public borrowing has
not been at the expense of private borrowing, at least not until late l936 and early
1
Per Household
Year
Per Household Tax Burden*
National Income**
National Taxes
Local Taxes
1932-33
¥54.76
¥41.21
1933-34
58.91
44.22
1934-35
66.36
47.12
1935-36
66.66
47.18
¥1,101*
1936-37
68.39
48.93
* Source: Kyoto University Ebonomic Review, July, 1938, p. 44.
** Source:
Population Census l935, Japan Eoonomic Federation,
op. cit., p. 48

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
1937 when a growing need for plant expansion and a subsequent demand for investment
funds on the part of private enterprise made itself felt and led to a temporary
stringency in the capital market.
All this suggests that Japan entered the war with not too heavy a tax and debt
burden. But, on the other side, her reserve of idle funds does not seem to have been
too plentiful and Japan was only able to achieve a balance between private and public
demands for funds by instituting strict control of credit and commercial lending
policies during the early stages of the war.
II. PUBLIC FINANCE DURING THE WAR YEARS
The Economic Problem of War
Modern warfare is essentially an economio problem. In order to prosecute a war
with greatest effeotiveness the belligerent country has to maximize its output to an
extent which available resources and organization permit. As the use of economic
resources - manpower, raw materials and stock of capital goods - is at the expense
of alternative uses, the problem is how to divert these resources from the production
of goods and services valued in time of peace to war activities. This in turn means
that the nation must work harder and civilian consumption will have to be cut down
to the lowest level compatible with the needs of maximum war effort, for the waging
of war consumes such quantities of labor and materials that hardly any country can
expect to meet them out of idle resources or more extensive and intensive work.
There are three chief methods by which the greatest possible share of productive
power can be harnessed for war efforts: economic control, taxation, and borrowing -
and all three methods are being used simultaneously in Japan.
Especially in time of war a country's financial policy has as its objective the
swift transfer of men and resources to industries of vital importance to the conduct
of war and at the same time aims at expansion of total output and employment.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Financial arrangements must be made in accordance with the industrial mobilization
plan.
Since it is hardly possible, for all practical purposes, to finance war expendi-
tures solely by taxation, the financial methods adopted in order to pey for the
state's expenses in time of war and to reshape the nation's economy are partly taxa-
tion and partly borrowing.
Budgets in war time reflect to a very high degree the changing structure of
production. Expansion of the munitions industries manifests itself in the growth of
the expenditure side of the national finances and the growth in revemue represents
the reduction in civil consumption expenditures in order to balance the expansion in
the war industries.
The Scale of Japan's Finances
In order to appreciate the extent to which Japan's governmental disbursements
have grown in recent years, it is necessary to consider not only the national, but
also the local, finances. As Japan's national finances consist of the General Ac-
count, some 40 Special Accounts, including the Temporary War Expenditure Special
Account, we must examine all these as well.
We shall start with an analysis of the General Account and then proceed with a
presentation of a unified budget which will include the General Account and the
various Special Accounts, after deductions of transfers between the accounts exclud-
ing the Temporary War Expenditure Special Account, with which we shall deal separate-
ly. Finally, we shall combine national and local budgets and thus arrive at the
scale of Japan's national and local finances during the past war years.
1. The General Acoount
a. Development of Taxation
Under the impact of the war Japan's tax structure has undergone substantial
changes, culminating in a tax reform, which had been contemplated for years, but

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
8
1
never carried out.
The first change took place even before the war started. The large movement of
funds in the direction of the stock market early in l937, which was due to a growing
need for funds for plant expansion, was followed by a shrinkage of investments in
fixed interest securities and thus resulted in a price decline of Government bonds.
Encountering difficulties in the floatation of bonds, the Government, in drawing up
plans for the l937-38 budget, decided to rely more on an increase in revenue from
taxes than on financing the contemplated deficit by bonds and the Diet voted tax in-
creases under the "Temporary Tax Increase Law", which increased existing rates and
created new taxes.
When the war broke out the rates of existing taxes were immediately increased
and new taxes added under the "Law Relating to Emergency Taxes for the North China
Incident". This law was replaced by the "China Incident Tax Law" in April, 1938,
when the conflict had assumed much larger proportions than were foreseen in the early
stages of the war. This tax law brought further substantial changes. In order to
mitigate the tax burden on farmers and small industries adversely affected by the
war and to encourage industries of vital importance, the "Temporary Tax Relinquish-
ment Law" was enacted on April 1, 1938.
Again in April, 1939, the tax increases under the "China Incident Tax Law" and
the "Special Profits Tax Law" were revised to increase the yield from those taxes
and also to render certain exemptions as well as to reduce taxation for essential
enterprises with the view to stimulate the expansion of productive capacity. Other
new taxes were introduced also.
Tax Reform
After the outbreak of the war Japan's tax structure became very complicated and
inflexible, making it virtually impossible to increase rates or introduce new taxes
1/ For particulars, especially rates, of all tax legislation cited here, we refer
the reader to the "38th Financial and Economic Annual of Japan, 1938", pp. 53-76;
the Japan Year Book 1939-40 also gives details on pp. 273-281.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
in the future. The old taxation system, originally based on the land tax, witnesssd
a good many reforms, but they never altered the tax struoture fundementally; the im-
position and distribution of the tax burden has always been inequitable, especially
between urban and rural districts, between movable and immovable property, and be-
tween corporation and individual income. In a war boom, the distribution of purchas-
ing power tends to be very uneven in regard to social groups and types of enterprises
as well as to ocoupatfons. An all-round increase in rates affects the incomes of
social groups and occupations differently and already existing inequalities are
greatly increased. In order to cope with these problems, a tax reform was instituted
1
and put into operation with the beginning of the current fiscal year, April 1, 1940.
The present reform has as its main objectives:
1. Equalization of the tax burden in regard to national and local taxes
2. Coordination of the tax system with the economic policy of the Government
3. Increase in revemue from taxes and establishment of an elastic tax syatem
4. Simplification of the tax system in order to facilitate its smooth operation.
National Taxation: Under the present reform the main emphasis is on direct
taxes, especially the income tax, and less on indireot taxes, in order not to jeopar-
dize the price control policy. Under the previous system of texation, the income of
individuals and corporations was assessed under one income tax schedule. The new re-
form assesses corporate and individual income separately and further subdivides the
personal income tax into a classified income tax, levied at the source and at a flat
rate, and a synthetic income tax, levied on the total income from all sources in ex-
cess of  5,ooo at progressive rates.
The classified income tax is levied on the following sources of income:
1. Real estate
2. Bonds, deposits and shares
3. Business
4. Services and employment
5. Forestry
6. Retirement allowances
Monthly Ciroular, May 1940, pp. 17-21, and Oriental Eoonomist, March 1940, pp.
155-158.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
The exemption limit for almost all classes of income is very low, the one for
annual wages is set at 720 yen as compared with 1,000 yen under the old tax statute.
The flat rate, at which the clessified income tax is assessed, can be easily changed
according to the exigencies of national finance. According to all evidence, the
lower income brackets will be hit very hard, but this might be in line with wartime
fiscal policy to absorb purchasing power.
The aynthetic income tax rates are additional to the flat rate of the classified
income tax and range from 10 per cent on income in excess of ¥5,000 to 65 per cent on
income in excess of 800,000. Certain deductions are allowed.
The corporation tax does away with the former system of assessing corporate in-
come under the Cless I income tax, the business profits tax and the corporation
capital tax. The corporation tax will be imposed at a flat rate upon income (18 per
cent) and capital (1.5 per cent). Corporations engaged in manufacturing, mining, and
extracting important materials will be exempt for the first three years. As the tax
is levied regardless of the size of the corporation, it favors the large corporations
with a better ability to pay the tax out of current income.
The temporary profit tax has also been revised and appears to be a combination
of the old Class I income tax (levied on excess profits). In 1ts present form it is
imposed on profits of a corporation exceeding l0 per cent of the paid-up capital and
on excess profits of an individual. The objective of the reform is to obtain an in-
orease in revemue from enterprises which have benefited from the war.
The rates of the inheritance tax have been inoreased also.
Local Taxation: Under the present reform, the local household rates and the
local surtaxes on the income tax will be abolished and the collection of personal
taxes will be transferred to the central Government, whioh will refund part of this
revemue to the local administrations in the form of grants-in-aid. A special account
will be set up for the purpose of financing these compensations.
As no particulars of the reform are yet available, it remains to be seen whether
the reform is likely to achieve its objectives or not.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
b. Regeipts
As a result of substantial changes in the rates of taxation, the introduotion of
numerous new taxes and to some extent, due to the natural growth in taxable income,
the revemue from taxes have witnessed an increase of 89.4 per cent during the three
war years.
Increase in Revenue from Taxes, 1937-38 to 1939-40
(1936-37 = 100)
Fiscal year
1937-38
193B-39
1939-40
Type of Tax
(Actual)
(Actual)
(Budget)
Direot tares
161.0
242.7
284.5
Income tax
173.0
265.0
290.2
Business profit tax
124.6
143.8
154.3
Capital interest tex
181.6
220.3
281.9
Special profit tax
229.3
416.3
665.4
Indirect taxes
113.1
130.9
134.4
Sake tax
109.7
126.6
115.7
Sugar excise
109.7
168.1
146.7
Textiles consumption tax
91.5
110.2
101.6
Customs duties
105.2
95.6
100.6
Profits of monopoly
119.7
121.4
112.0
Others
114.7
122.6
125.9
Total taxes
131.0
171.7
189.4
Total receipts*
129.7
158.2
175.0
Total receipts exclude proceeds of loans and transfer of surplus.
As only a small proportion of the increase in the yield of taxation is due to
natural growth, it is evident that the tax burden has increased enormously.
Most remarkable is the increase in the yield of direct taxes, especially the
special profits tax, which is levied on excess profits. Indirect taxes as a whole
increased slightly and the yield of some indirect taxes is estimated to decrease dur-
ing the year l939-40, probably due to restriction of supplies and severe rationing.
Customs duties have not increased at all because of the importation of materials

=== Page 169 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
which are of vital importance to the war industries, most of which are exempt from
customs duties. During the war years Japan relied more on direct taxes than on in-
direct taxes, a tendency which, as we have seen, had developed in the prewar years.
Percentage Share of Various Types of Taxes in Total Revemue From Taxes
1936-37
1937-38
1938-39
1939-40
Direct taxes
37.1
45.6
52.5
55.8
Indirect texes
54.6
47.1
41.6
38.7
Other taxes
8.3
7.3
5.9
5.5
Total taxes
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
In spite of the enormous increase in revenue from taxes, expenditures in the
General Account were much higher than regular receipts and the ensuing deficit had to
be financed by borrowing.
The actual issues of bonds to finance the deficits in the General Account have
so far kept within the limits set by the budget authorizations, but they have in-
creased considerably during the past fiscal year.
1937-38
1938-39
1939-40
Total
Budget
822.4
1,008.0
1,727.7
3,558.1
Ac tual
622.7
699.1
1,324.1
2,646.0
c. Expenditure
In spite of the fact that most of the direot war expenditures are made from the
Temporary War Expenditure Special Account, expenditures under the General Account have
increased substantially. As all war budgets have been compiled on the basis of prior-
ity of expenditures in connection with the war, it is reasonable to assume that ex-
penditures for services which the Government renders in time of peace have been cur-
tailed, although this does not readily show in the summary statements of expenditures
by the various departments. They all show increases, but there is sufficient evidence
that expenditures whioh were not related to the prosecution of the war or not urgently
needed, were either eliminated altogether or heavily ourtailed.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-13 -
The bulk of the increases in both ordinary and extraordinary expenditures con-
cern items related to the war, such as interest payments on bonds, military expendi-
tures, annuities, pensions, military relief, subsidies to industry, commerce and
agrioulture, economic control, and various other "behind the gun" measures. A good
portion of the growth of expenditures may also be attributed to the rising price
level.
As far as the various departments are concerned, the increase in expenditures of
the Department of Finance are most conspicuous and are almost entirely due to the
growing requirements of the debt service and disbursement on behalf of the Temporary
War Expenditure Special Account. The Army and Navy Departments show also substantial
increases (with the exception of the Army Department in 1938-39) in spite of the fact
that direct war expenditures are taken care of in a Special Account.
The Department of Commerce and Industry has greatly enlarged its functions
arising out of the control and adjustment of the nation's economic war effort with
consequent increasing expenditures.
The Communications Department outlay has also grown appreciably due to the sub-
sidizing of enterprises and heavy disbursements of pensions and annuities.
As a result of the war the Welfare Department was established during 1937-38
primarily to take care of military relief.
d. Budget estimates for 1940-41
The budget for the current fiscal year, including the Temporary War Expenditure
Special Account, is the first to be compiled in accordance with a material mobiliza-
tion plan which is supposed to allocate important goods and services, in the order of
their importance to the military authorities for the prosecution of the war, to
private industry for the expansion of production and exports, and for civilian con-
sumption.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
- 14 -
1
Expenditures in the General Account proper will total 6,097.3 million yen, an
increase of 1,2l4.7 million yen over the last fiscal year. Major increases in depert-
mental expenditures conoern the Ministry of Finance and appropriations for the Army
and Navy; they are mainly due to the increasing requirements of the debt service and
the "replenishment of armament". In this year's budget the share of military expen-
ditures in total General Account expenditures will be 37.8 per cent and interest pay-
ments will amount to some 15 per cent. The amount of 600 million yen will be trans-
ferred this year from the General Account to the Temporary War Expenditure Special
Acoount.
As a result of the tax reform, receipts from taxes will amount to 3,609,978,000
2/
yen, an increase of 1,014,978,000 yen as compared with the estimates of the previous
fiscal year. Out of this total, 3,534,740,000 will be received by the General Ac-
count and the remainder of 75, 238, 000 will be directly credited to the newly estab-
lished Municipal Governments' Special Account for ultimate distribution to local
Governments. Out of the tax receipts in the General Account proper 230 million yen
will be transferred to local Governments under the newly introduced grants-in-aid
3
system. Government loans are estimated at 1,906.5, or 31 per cent of total revenue.
As a whole, most of the increase in expenditures will be met by increase in receipts
from taxes.
2. The Unified Budget
So far we have been dealing with the General Account only. We shall now con-
sider the General Account in connection with the various special accounts. In regard
to the close relationship between these two, we shall have to make allowance for
duplications and transfers between the General Account and the special accounts. The
following table will present the net totals, leaving out of consideraion the
1/ This includes the original budget for the current fiscal year and two additional
budgets. For detailed data, see Appendix, Table F.
2/
See Monthly Circular, May 1940, pp. 14 and 20.
3
Detailed date will be found in the Appendix, Table F.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Temporary Wer Erpenditure Special Aceount, with which we shall deal in the following
1
section.
Net Totals of Expenditure Estimates for the Tears 1937-38 to 1939-40
1937-38
1938-39
1939-40
1940-41**
General Account
3,488,899,458
3,514,521,415
4,804,543,527
Special accounts*
13,269,076,668
14,001,364,902
16,616,120,477
Totals
16,757,976,126
17,515,886,317
21,420,664,004
Deduo tions:
1. Owing to duplica-
tions between the
General Account and
the above-mentioned
special accounts
3,390,851,976
3,219,532,709
4,614,105,939
Remainder
13,367,124,150
14,296,353,608
16,806,558,065
2. Owing to trans-
fers between the
General and special
accounts and the
Temporary War Ex-
penditure Special
Account
2,707,005,552
4,875,432,228
4,586,690,400
3. Owing to pay-
ments to the Tem-
porary War Expendi-
ture Special Ac-
count for materials,
by other military
special accounts
1,368,640,025
1,051,549,251
Remainder
10,660,118,598
8,052,281,355
11,168,318,414
13,046,000,000
4. Deduction of
redemption of silk
yarn purchase notes
owing to recurrence
in the revenue and
expenditure accounts
4,857,298,688
1,959,805,743
3,044,697,331
2,255,000,000
Net budgetary totals
5,802,819,910
6,092,475,612
8,123,621,083|10,791,000,000
Temporary War Expenditure Special Account excluded.
Only these few figures were comparable with those of previous
years. Estimates do not include the supplementary budgets.
Source:
1937-38 - Kyoto University Economio Review, January, 1939, p. 9
1938-39 and 1939-40 - Kinyu Jiko Sankosho, 1938, pp. 172-179;
1939, pp. 172-179
1940-41 - Toyo Keza1 Tokei Geppo; March, 1940, p. 15
1
Unfortunately, it was impossible to secure data for the settled accounts. The
net totals given in the table are the net totals of the budget estimates and we
shall have to take these budget estimates as representative for the growth of
Japan's atate accounts.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
-16 -
3. The Temporary War Expenditure Special Account
Upon the outbreak of hostilities the Government immediately authorized
 10,198, 223 to pay the expenses of what was at that time called the "North China
Incident". When the Diet convened for its 7lst session on July 25, 1937, a supple-
mentary budget amounting to  95,184, 360 was approved. When at the end of July it
became apparent that military operations would have to be on a much larger scale, the
Diet authorized on August 7 another supplementary budget, this time amounting to
 412,023,910. When the "North China Incident" developed into the "China Affair",
due to rapid extension of the fighting front, a law was promulgated during the 72d
Diet session on September 10, 1937, setting up a "Temporary War Expenditure Special
Account", whose fiscal period was to comprise the entire period of the war. Expendi-
ture estimates under this Special account, amounted to Y 2,022,671,158, which were
approved during the 72d Diet session. It was arranged that all expenditures relative
to the war and already approved by previous sessions of the Diet were to be trans-
ferred to this account, thus bringing the total for the fiscal year 1937-38 to
 2,540,077,65l. Ever since, the bulk of the war expenditures has been met from
this account.
Because of the spread of hostilities to North, Central and South China, annual
expenditures authorized under the Temporary War Expenditure Special Account have been
scaled up cons1derably. In the fiscal year 1938-39 they claimed : 4,850,000,000 and
¥4,605,000,000, in 1939-40. In the current fiscal year ￥ 4,460,000,000 has been
budgeted, bringing the total estimated expenditures in this account to some l6.5
1
billion yen.
Bond issues constitute by far the most important source of revemue. Only 10 per
cent of the cumulative total in this account will be raised in the form of taxes,
which are transferred from the General Account and various special accounts; 1.2 per
cent will be raised in the form of contributions from Government enterprises or con-
tributions by the publio and miscellaneous income.
1/ Particulars of allocations to the service departments and of sources of revenue
will be found in the Appendix, Table D.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
-17 -
(in million yen)
Amount of revemue
% of total revenue
Loans
14,522.1
88.4
Taxes
1,748.8
10.4
Misc. income
220.7
1.2
Total
16,491.7
100.0
As we mentioned earlier, the estimates for the current fiscal year's budget
have been compiled in accordance with the allocation of goods set forth in the ma-
terial mobilization plan. To what extent the estimates in both the General Account
and the Temporary War Expenditure Special Account will be workable in regard to pro-
duction and supply of major commodities, as planned in the mobilization plan, re-
mains to be seen, as no details of the mobilization plan have been published. It is
likely that additional budgets will be submitted, for the present estimates are based
on the price level prevailing at the end of l938 and considerable price increases
have taken place in the meantime. It is also likely that, as far as the Temporary
War Expenditure Special Account is concerned, bonds, authorized by previous Diet
sessions and not yet actually issued, may be used to meet higher expenditures, result-
ing from price increases.
4. Local Finances
Before we can make an estimate of the magnitude of Japan's total public
finances we have to give brief consideration to local finances, which are of consider-
able importance and were almost as large in volume as national expenditures in prewar
years, excluding the special accounts.
1
Budget estimates of expenditures
for prefectures, cities, towns and villages
combined, which had been increasing rapidly 1n the years before the outbreak of the
war, have shown a distinct contraotion ever since, especially in regard to appropria-
tions for public works and other enterprises consuming important materials. Other
appropriations, such as for sanitation, social welfare, including military relief,
eto., have increased.
1/ See Oriental Eoonomist, July, 1939, p. 45l and Monthly Circular, April, 1940, P 24.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
1
The revenue position has improyed slightly, due to an increase in revenue from
taxes and grants from the national treasury.
Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of Local
1
Governments
(in thousand yen)
1937-38
1938-39
1939-40
Revenue
Taxes
711,922
735,462
724,187
Grants
230,013
266,939
148,000
Proceeds of loans
400,465
313,480
11,183,767
Other items
737,399
801,104
Total
2,079,799
2,116,985
2,055,955
Expenditure
2,078,905
2,116,140
2,055,344
5. Japan's Total National Finances
After this brief survey of the finances of the various national and local ac-
counts, we are now in a position to appreciate the growth of expenditures in the
Japanese Empire on a comprehensive basis.
In order to arrive at the monetary scale of Japan's total national finances we
shall combine in the following table the unified budget, the Temporary War Expendi-
ture Special Account and the local expenditures.
Budget Estimates of Japan's National Wartime
Expenditures, 1937-38 - 1940-41
1937-38
1938-39
1939-40
1940-41
General account and
special accounts com-
bined
5,802,819,910
6,092,475,612
8,380,738,929
11,065,368,000
War Temporary Expenditure
Special Account
2,540,077,651
4,850,000,000
4,605,000,000
4,460,000,000
Net national expenditures
8,342,897,561
10,942,475,61212,985,738,929
15,525,368,000
Local expenditures (ex-
cluding Grants from
National Treasury)
1,978,905
1,986,140
1,907,344
Net national and local
expenditures
10.321.802.561112.928.615.61214.893.082.929
1/ See Oriental Economist, July, 1939, p. 451 and Monthly Circular, April, 1940, P 24.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
-19 -
From the preceding table 1t will be seen that during the last three years the
total budgeted expenditures of the national and looal governments have reached an
impressive volume. As local expenditures have remained more or less stable, all of
the increase may be attributed to the expansion in the national budgets. Net
national expenditures during the fiscal year 1940-4l will be almost twice as large
as during the fiscal year 1937-38, the first war year.
Compared with the last pre-war year, net national expenditures as represented
by the budgets will be more than three times as large in the current fiscal year and
net national and local expenditures will probably be a little less than three times
1
as large as in 1936-37.
The proportion of the national income of the Japanese Empire which is directed
by the Government has also grown considerably, although not exactly at the same rate
as expenditures did because the national income itself increased during the period
under consideration.
1
Estimates of Japan's net national and local expenditures:
1936-37
(in ¥1,000)
General and special accounts combined*
9,943,234
Deductions:
Owing to duplications*
1,510,998
Owing to conversion and rerunding operations** 3,715,945
Net national expenditures
4,716,291
Local expenditures***
2,738,931
Deductions:
Owing to conversions**
650,000
Grants from the National Treasury***
272,892
Net national and local expenditures
6,532,330
* Eoonomio Statistics of Japan, The Bank of Japan, 1937, p. 61.
** Our own estimates.
*** Oriental Eoonomist, July 1939, p. 451.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
Budget expenditures as percentage of national income
Net national
Net national and
expenditures
local expenditures
1936-37
24.7
34.3
1937-38
35.3
43.6
1938-39
41.7
49.3
1939-40
45.0
51.6
These figures indicate that in Japan the complete mobilization for war has led
to a growth of national expenditures from 25% to 45% of the national income during
the last four fiscal years; and if we include the local expenditures, the scale of
Japan's total finances increased from 34% to 52% of the national income during these
years. During the current fiscal year the proportion of the national income directed
by the government, according to all evidence, will be even still greater than during
the past fiscal year.
Direct Cost of the War
The real cost of the war, whether financed by taxation, borrowing or the print-
ing press, consists of the goods and services for civilian consumption, which could
have been produced if the economic resources employed for their production had not
been diverted to the production of munitions.
The real cost of the war in terms of yen is, of course, very difficult to esti-
mate. But the direct, or money, cost of the war may give some idea of the magnitudes
involved.
The Direct Cost of 33 Months of War
Disbursements from the Temporary War
Expenditure Special Account
1. Up to the end of February, 1939*
¥6,300,000,000
2. Proceeds of loans from the end of February, 1939, to the
end of March, 1940
4,101,500,000
3.
Revenue other than proceeds of loans during 1939-40**
661,853,212
4. Miscellaneous 1ncome**
19,076,360
According to a statement by the Ministry of Finance.
We have assumed that the revenue from taxes and other
sources of income in the Temporary War Expenditure
Special Account will be used under any circumstances.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
Disbursements from the General Account
1. Army expenditures from 1937-38 to the end of 1939-40***
2,079,378,266
2. Interest payments on China Inoident bonds from
September, 1937, to end of March, 1940
338.471.332
¥13,500,279,170
*** We have not included here the appropriations for the
Navy owing to the fact that the participation of the
Navy has been limited and all relevant Navy expendi-
tures are taken oare of in the China budget.
For the entire period from June, 1937, to March, 1940, the total direct cost of
the war amounted to something like 13.5 billion yen, which is a conservative estimate
and exoludes all costs incidental to the war. For the fiscal year l939-40 alone,
the direct cost of war amounted to 6.l billion, again exclusive of all incidental
1
costs.
This is roughly 21 per cent of the national income of the Japanese Empire
for the year l939 and the least we can say is that, had there been no war, the life
of the Japanese people could have been this much richer in terms of peaceful pur-
suits. The conclusion is that at least 2l per cent of the entire productive power
of the Japanese Empire will be diverted for direct war purposes if the war contimues
at the present soale; the standard of living has already substantially deteriorated.
Public Debt
The funded debt of the Japanese Government at the end of March, 1940, amounted
to 22,886,000,000 yen, including an internal debt of 21,628,000,000 and an external
2
debt of 1,258,000,000 yen.
The internal debt has risen roughly by 12.3 billion yen since the end of March,
1937, when it stood at 9.257 million yen. Since practically no debt was incurred
between the end of Maroh and July, l937, nearly all the increase may be attributed
to the excess of expenditures over non-borrowed revenue ever since Japan embarked
upon the war against China and the major portion of it has been employed to meet ex-
penditures in connection with the war, as the following figures will show.
1/ The reason why expenditures during the fiscal year l939-40 were almost as large
as during the first year and a half seems to be due to the fact that stores of
munitions acoumulated in the past were first drawn upon, involving no immediate
expenditures.
2/
For detailed data see Appendix, Table E.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
- 22-
New Bonds Actually Issued Since the Beginning of the War
Distribution according to Purpose
(in million yen)
Purpose
General Account
Total
Temporary War
Manchuria
Fiscal
Amount
Expenditure
Deficit
Incident
Special
Year
Issued
Special Account
Total
Bonds
Bonds
Others
Accoun'ts
1937-38
2,230.0
1,500.0
622.7
355.5
251.0
16.2
107.2
1938-39
4,530.5
3,700.5
699.1
579.3
107.1
12.7
130.8
1939-40
5,516.5
4,001.5
1,324.1
994.1*
330.0*
*
190.8
Total
12,277.0
9,202.0
2,646.0
1,928.9*
688.1*
28.9*
428.9
Preliminary estimates, based on data from Far Eastern
Finanoial Notes, 1940, No. 5; see also Appendix, Table E.
Source:
Data presented in the Monthly Circular, Mitsubishi Econ-
omic Research Bureau, May, 1940, p. 15, and Zaisei
(Finance), March, 1940.
Out of a total of 12, 277 million yen, 9, 202 million, or roughly 70 per cent,
have been borrowed during the last three years to meet the direct cost of the war;
428.9 million, or roughly 3.5 per cent have been borrowed for expenditures under the
special accounts and may be regarded as having been spent for productive purposes.
The rest was spent to meet deficits in the General Account and for military expendi-
tures in connection with the Manchurian Incident.
So far this has been a 3t per cent war. Practically all bonds issued since the
beginning of the war bear a rate of 3t per cent and most of them have been issued at
¥98.00 per l00 face value and their maturity is on the average 17 years and 3 months.
A smell amount has been issued at ¥98.50 per ¥100 face value and their maturity is
11 years and 2 months. The redemption yield is 3.68 on the average. There are in
general two kinds of bonds: the Deficit Bonds and the China Incident Bonds. The
incident bonds come in different types: a General Series, a Special Series and
Discount Bonds. There is no difference between the Defioit Bonds and the General
Series of the China Incident Bonds, except that, apparently, only China Incident
Bonds are sold through some 10,o00 post offices in the country. Otherwise, in regard
to maturity, rate of interest and issue price, the terms are the same.
1/ For detailed data see Appendix, Table E.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
The China Incident Bonds at first were issued in denominations of 25-50-100-500
and 1000 yen. In August, 1938, the China Incident Special Series was launched with a
face value of 10 yen each and an issue price of 9.80. Their maturity is also 17
years and they were especially designated for sale through post offices. Apparently
all bonds sold through post offioes can be sold back to them and payment of back
taxes can be made with them. In June, 1939, the Government atarted the sale of
1
Discount Bonds through post offices. Whereas the bonds offered to the public through
post office windows in the past were only those with interest coupons attached, the
interest on Discount Bonds is compounded semi-annually and is payable with the prin-
cipal upon maturity (10 years). The face value of these bonds is 10 and 20 yen and
the issue price 7 and 14 yen respectively. These bonds were not subject to taxation,
whereas on all other bonds a special tax was levied; they also can be resold to post
offices at current price plus accumulated interest.
Of importance, in regard to the money and capital market, is not so much the
purpose for which the Government borrows, but rather the dimensions of the Govern-
ment's total demand for funds. Characteristic of the method of financing budget
deficits in Japan is the fact that the Government direotly borrows from the central
bank which underwrites the majority of Government bonds and places them on the mar-
ket. The actual distribution of bond subscriptions will be seen in the following
table:
Underwritings of National Bonds
(in yen)
Underwritten by:
Fiscal
Sales Through
Deposit
National Bond
Year
Amount Issued
Bank of Japan*
Post Offices*
Bureaus
Syndicate
1937-38
2,230,000,000
1,661,650,000
118,750,000
350,000,000
100,000,000
1938-39
4,530,500,000
3,275,402,270
475,097,730
780,000,000
1939-40
5,516,500,000
3,304,886,940
411,613,060
1,800,000,000
Total
12,277,000,000
8,241,539,212
1,005,460,790
2,930,000,000
100,000,000
As the bonds sold through post office windows are resales
by the Bank of Japan, the two columns represent the total
underwritings by the Bank.
Source:
This table is based on data published in Zaisei, February,
1940, p. 177. The figures for 1939-40 and the totals have
been brought up to the end of March, 1940, as the data in
Zaisei cover only the period up to the end of December,
1939: see also Appendix, Table E.
1/ For particulars see Zaisei: (Finance), June, 1939, p. 118.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
-24
For the period under consideration the Bank of Japan has underwritten by far the
majority of bonds issued. Ever since the outbreak of the war the Deposit Bureau,
whioh administers the Postal Savings System, had to take up a growing amount of
national bonds. The Bank of Japan, after subscribing to the Government bonds, immedi-
ately credits the amount underwritten to the Government's current account with the
Bank. To the extent the credit market becomes liquid as a result of Government dis-
bursements, the Bank of Japan sells the bonds in the market. This method of "pre-
financing" the Govarnment's demand for loanable funds has and will contimue to reeult
in great fluctuations in the supply of central bank money to the extent that the Bank
of Japan is not able to sell all bonds underwritten by it in the market. On April
6, 1940, the Bank's holdings of Government bonds amounted to some 2.5 billion yen,
which is roughly about 2 billion more than at the outbreak of the war. The rapid in-
crease in the circulation of Bank of Japan notes seems to be quite closely related to
this method of "prefinancing" Government deficits. That the credit market so far was
able to absorb the bond issues more or less satisfactorily is a problem of major
importanoe.
We can now conclude our survey with a brief summary. The expansionist fiscal
policy after l932 which resulted from heavy expenditures on armaments, led to a quick
recovery especially in the heavy industries and put the country's economy on a semi-
war footing. As the revenue from taxes increased more than the requirements of the
service of the increasing internal debt, and the absorption of bonds proceeded satis-
factorily, the fiscal position of Japan may be regarded as having been sound.
As is to be expected, the war has resulted in a tremendous increase in expendi-
tures. In time of war, governments become the most important contractor and most of
the income of entrepreneurs and individuals is directly or indirectly derived from
the government and government finance consequently becomes of dominating importance.
Compared with the last pre-war year 1936-37, the proportion of the national income

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
-25
of the Japanese Empire which passes through the hands of the Government increased
from 25% to 45% during the third war-year 1939-40; and if we teke locel expenditures
into consideration, the proportion of the national income appropriated by the State
and its subdivisions inoreased from 34% to 51%. War expenditures in the narrower
sense during the fiscal year 1939-40 are estimated to represent roughly 21% of the
national income of the Japanese Empire. This estimate excludes all expenditures in-
cidental to the war and merely represents the amount of the nation's productive power
which is required for the direct prosecution of the war. The methods by which Japan
finanoed suoh a high level of expenditures and brought at least 2l% of the nation's
industrial output for war purposes under its control, consists of taxation, borrowing
and economic control. The revemue from taxes has been boosted from some 1,360
million yen in 1936-37 to some 3,500 million yen. Bond issues have increased from
685.0 million yen in 1936-37 to 5,516.9 million yen 1n 1939-40 and are estimated to
be 6,017.4 mi1l1on yen in 1940-41.
Beside the Government's demand for loanable funds there has been put into oper-
ation an extensive program for the expansion of productive capacity, which will have
to be financed as well. During the past war years, inspite of strictest control,
the private demand for long-term investments was almost as large in volume as the
Government's demand for long-term credit. There is indication that the huge Govern-
ment floatations are straining the capital market increasingly, which is evidenced
by a slowing down of the rate of absorption of Government bonds. During Jamuary-
April, 1940 the rate was 85% of the total amount issued as compared with 104% during
the same period last year.
As the problem of absorption of Government bonds is closely conneoted with the
volume of Japan's total governmental expenditures, there arises the question whether
Japan will be able to execute her enormous budgets in future years with as much
satisfaction as in past years. In our next bulletin we will deal sxtensively with
Japan's ability to finance the prosecution of the war and the intimately related

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.97)
一26 
program of induatrial expansion.
Beside the internal problem of financing the Government expenditures, there is
the external problem of financing the necessary imports. As Japan is largely depend-
ent upon foreign sources for her imports of raw materials and machinery the question
of her ability to purchase these goode abroad becomes of paramount importance. This
question will also be dealt with in our next bulletin.
We hope that the survey of the situation in Japan's money and capital market and
her foreign exchange resources will allow us to present a reasonable estimate of the
amount of strain which the conduct of the war exerts on the Japanese economy.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Table A
STATE
RECEIPTS
FROM
TAXES,
1928/29
1929/30
1930/31
1931/32
1932/35
1938/84
CLOSED
ACCO
Direot Taxes
Income tax
206,741,542
199,851,509
200,616,410
144,501,197
136,131,821
159,706,682
Land tax
67,821,482
67,484,884
68,035,367
63,915,946
58,348,487
58,137,453
Business tax
194,469
82,703
56,772
27,604
9,416
10,851
Business profits tax
57,870,949
56,048,786
54,286,406
37,904,278
35,282,349
40,386,211
Capital interest tax
16,204,288
16,167,939
15,651,646
14,770,665
14,253,351
14,654,010
Corporation capital tax
Succession tax
29,224,287
29,721,458
32,904,624
30,169,882
30,216,086
25,594,910
Mining tax
5,591,442
5,417,746
4,997,553
3,751,774
5,054,349
3,557,298
Foreign ourreney
securities spec. tax
Bourse business tax
Dividend tax
Publie and corporation
bond interest tax
War-profits tax
27,223
73
215
8,180
234
41
Special profits tax
Indirect Taxes
Sake tax
235,749,951
242,562,673
218,854,670
188,798,530
177,395,300
208,865,232
Table water tax (soft
drinks)
4,224,091
4,427,745
3,639,910
3,266,374
3,030,649
3,208,299
Sugar exoise
85,216,198
82,244,208
77,889,447
77,386,223
72,654,205
72,522,275
Textiles oonsumption tax
40,266,856
56,791,524
83,884,188
33,748,169
29,149,519
29,440,821
Gasoline tax
Customs duties
150,944,017
136,096,940
105,379,643
114,274,206
105,375,066
113,962,804
Profits of monopoly
177,201,523
177,803,169
198,339,282
190,461,252
177,906,626
179,266,814
Tax on commodities
Amusement and restaurant
meal tax
Other
Tax on bourses
10,609,911
8,647,866
9,123,622
11,755,954
14,958,445
16,240,841
Seourities transfer tax
Tonnage dues
1,599,582
2,354,105
2,280,912
2,235,059
2,146,885
2,299,574
Stamp receipts
86,579,080
79,257,765
69,704,464
65,433,562
66,633,502
73,750,059
Tax on the issue of bank
notes
5,649,970
5,615,217
7,439,875
8,998,010
13,851,136
Admission tax
Special admission tax
Transit tax (travelling
tax)
Building tax
Misoellaneous (soy tax
and travelling tax)
540,000
Total
1,180,256,861
1,150,566,240
1,103,085,004
991,406,845
940,377,424
1,001,583,655
Mote: 1928/29 - 1938/39 settled ac0oumts, 1939/40 Budget.
Souroes: 1928/29 - 36/37 - 38th Boonomio and Pinancia1 Annual of Japan, pp. 30-51.
1957/38 - 39/40 - Kinyu Jiko Sankosho (Reference book on financial matters), 1939, pp. 180-183.
Japan-Manehuokuo Yearbook.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
TAXES,
1928/29
1939/40
1932/58
1955/34
1934/35
1985/86
1936/37
1937/38
1958/39
1939/40
CLOSED
ACCOUNTS
BUDGET
136,131,821
159,706,682
196,381,588
227,339,500
276,555,799
478,488,241
732,790,517
802,686,759
58,348,487
58,137,435
57,646,105
58,042,446
58,592,350
58,455,854
51,531,236
48,234,225
9,416
10,851
2,142
3,186
4,309
1,220
1,636
0
35,282,549
40,386,211
48,647,690
57,233,939
73,231,123
91,260,674
105,280,878
112,968,247
14,253,351
14,634,010
14,872,771
15,048,600
15,033,848
27,298,814
33,121,658
42,378,440
9,355,000
21,942,879
27,492,857
80,216,086
25,594,910
27,172,694
30,255,402
31,790,577
35,852,816
45,482,805
49,401,572
3,054,349
3,557,298
4,246,980
4,633,828
5,291,783
7,445,919
10,736,257
8,808,595
2,774,000
2,701,000
2,650,672
35,450,589
43,148,719
1,042,673
2,006,837
254
41
80
1,370
26,183,953
44,681,145
102,467,543
185,992,616
297,315,057
177,395,300
208,865,232
218,434,779
209,327,766
220,099,956
241,460,004
278,668,928
254,767,879
3,030,649
3,208,299
3,484,196
3,580,672
4,219,027
4,755,677
5,371,085
7,068,326
72,654,205
72,522,273
74,967,309
84,817,505
86,781,641
95,229,152
145,892,046
127,356,295
29,149,519
29,440,821
35,696,415
40,922,069
42,557,520
38,940,053
46,899,815
43,222,055
17,334,000
13,495,000
11,735,216
105,375,066
113,962,804
144,433,229
151,265,227
174,129,953
184,963,533
166,422,571
175,195,725
177,906,626
179,266,814
192,571,015
197,562,530
215,166,810
257,586,787
261,307,908
241,050,029
54,573,460
105,177,749
32,966,020
14,958,445
16,240,841
14,547,878
14,732,157
15,844,655
30,102,665
25,038,944
27,134,863
2,854,678
2,359,000
2,369,165
2,146,885
2,299,574
2,649,734
2,797,075
2,947,968
2,767,843
2,562,387
2,468,464
66,633,502
73,750,059
78,026,779
78,641,281
93,822,779
93,284,310
91,440,109
90,732,658
13,831,186
104,930
267,221
8,276,569
8,114,740
72,116
105,090
8,087,290
9,245,712
1,614,778
940,377,424
1,001,585,655
1,115,781,362
1,192,388,506
1,360,751,225
1,782,763,195
2,336,808,666
2,577,390,698
1959, pp. 180~183.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Table B
STATE
REVENUE,
1928/29
1929/30
1950/31
1951/32
1932/33
CLOS
Ordinary Revenue
Taxes
915,909,581
893,505,240
855,041,051
735,504,074
695,837,069
Stamp receipts
86,579,080
79,257,765
69,704,464
65,433,562
66,633,50%
Profits of monopoly
177,201,523
177,803,169
198,339,282
190,461,252
177,905,626
Reoeipts from Government
undertakings and properties:
Forests (gross)
42,874,818
39,728,242
38,810,223
55,145,501
31,157,804
Postal, Telegraph and Tele-
phone services (gross)
233,412,966
239,463,646
229,263,789
229,139,587
245,019,626
Others
20,704,702
22,969,186
21,446,755
17,961,960
14,657,221
Receipts from speoial ao-
count for Postal, Telegraph
and Telephone servioes
Payment to the Government
by Bank of Japan
Transferred from special
account for educational
improvement and agrioul-
tural development
6,767,452
6,901,037
7,095,797
7,491,954
7,726,458
Other miscellaneous
receipts
21,562,891
21,515,015
22,358,187
33,776,167
50,100,585
Total ordinary receipts
1,505,012,997
1,481,143,304
1,422,059,549
1,314,911,859
1,287,038,893
1
Extraordinary Revenue
Proceeds of sale of State
property
5,299,344
4,208,860
4,400,640
3,645,716
4,446,878
Miscellaneous receipts
10,080,644
16,288,310
17,229,505
14,390,285
11,327,967
Local payments to expenses
inourred by the State for
the benefit of certain
prefectures
2,927,500
2,904,574
2,696,149
2,725,883
5,670,880
Looal contributions to ex-
penses inourred by the
State for the benefit of
certain prefectures
7,933,985
5,093,244
4,619,110
8,736,650
11,940,385
Fund belonging to special
accounts transferred
16,722,375
23,503,912
14,235,796
6,870,023
7,234,501
Repayment from insurance
companies
5,510,540
3,529,209.
3,390,317
3,595,110
3,438,472
Receipts under the export
credits guarantee system
14,912
93,259
133,675
Refunding of loans to
exporters
Other miscellaneous
recsipts
59,288
74,589
197,946
16,724,229
244,252
War-profits tax
27,223
73
215
8,180
234
Special profits tax
Tax on interest on
national bonds and com-
pany debentures
Dividend tax
Transit tax
Admission tax
Special admission tax
Tax on commodities
Amusement and restaurant
tax
Building tax
Proceeds of loans
157,085,000
99,862,579
38,000,329
120,272,407
659,592,654
Transfer of surplus on
preceding year
297,032,256
190,836,095
90,127,696
39,108,456
54,206,777
Total extraordinary
receipts
500,678,107
345,301,447
174,912,618
216,170,183
758,256,675

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
915,909,581
893,505,240
855,041,051
785,504,074
695,857,080
Stamp recsipts
86,579,080
79,257,765
69,704,464
65,433,562
66,655,502
Profits of monopoly
177,201,523
177,805,169
198,389,282
190,461,252
177,906,626
Reosipts from Government
undertakings and properties:
Forests (gross)
42,874,818
39,728,242
38,810,225
35,143,501
31,157,804
Postal, Telegraph and Tele-
phone servioes (gross)
233,412,966
239,463,646
229,265,789
229,139,387
245,019,626
Others
20,704,702
22,969,186
21,446,755
17,961,960
14,657,221
Receipts from speoial ao-
count for Postal, Telegraph
and Telephone services
Payment to the Govermment
by Bank of Japan
Transferred from special
account for educational
improvement and agrioul-
tural development
6,767,432
6,901,037
7,095,797
7,491,954
7,726,458
Other miseellaneous
receipts
21,562,891
21,515,015
22,358,187
33,776,167
50,100,585
Total ordinary receipts
1,505,012,997
1,481,145,304
1.422,059,549
1,314,911,859
1,287,038,893
1
Extraordinary Revenue
Proceeds of sale of State
property
5,299,344
4,208,860
4,400,640
3,645,716
4,446,878
Miscellaneous receipts
10,080,644
16,288,310
17,229,505
14,390,285
11,327,967
Local payments to expenses
inourred by the State for
the benefit of cortain
prefectures
2,927,500
2,904,574
2,696,149
2,725,883
5,670,880
Looal contributions to ex-
penses inourred by the
State for the benefit of
certain prefectures
7,953,985
5,093,244
4,619,110
8,736,650
11,940,385
Fund belonging to special
accounts transferred
16,722,375
23,503,912
14,235,796
6,870,023
7,234,501
Repayment from insurance
companies
5,510,540
3,529,209.
3,390,317
3,595,110
3,438,472
Receipts under the export
credits guarantee system
14,912
93,259
133,675
Refunding of loans to
exporters
Other miscellaneous
receipts
59,288
74,589
197,946
16,724,229
244,252
War-profits tax
27,223
73
215
8,180
254
Special profits tax
Tax on interest on
national bonds and com-
pany debentures
Dividend tax
Transit tax
Admission tax
Special admission tax
Tax on commodities
Amusement and restaurant
tax
Building tax
Proceeds of loans
157,085,000
99,862,579
58,000,329
120,272,407
659,592,654
Transfer of surplus on
preceding year
297,032,256
190,836,095
90,127,696
39,108,436
54,206,777
Total extraordinary
receipts
500,678,107
345,301,447
174,912,618
216,170,183
758,236,675
Total receipts (ex-
cluding proceeds
of loans and sur-
pluses on previous
years)
1,551,573,848
1,535,746,079
1,468,844,145
1,371,701,199
1,331,476,137
1,
Total reccipts
2,005,691,104
1,826,444,751
1,596,972,168
1,551,082,042
2,045,275,568
2,
Souroe:
1928/29 to 1936/37 - 38th Eoonomio and Financial Anmua1 of Japan, pp. 30-31; Résume Statistique d
1957/88 to 1939/40 - Kinyu Jiko Sankosho - Reference book on financial matters, 1939, p. 152.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
1940/41
958/84
1934/35
1935/36
1936/37
1937/38
1938/39
1939/40
ACCOUNTS.
BUDGET
8,566,745
843,183,495
899,899,377
1,007,080,493
1,329,424,583
1,690,565,336
1,745,937,349
75,750,059
78,026,779
78,641,281
93,822,779
93,284,310
91,440,109
90,732,638
79,266,814
192,571,015
197,562,530
215,166,810
257,586,787
261,307,908
241,030,029
83,315,780
37,956,679
42,434,768
46,676,378
54,842,962
60,941,003
70,898,001
861,715,227
20,948,955
34,969,187
41,123,432
45,807,465
54,782,049
65,211,034
60,049,580
78,000,000
78,000,000
81,000,000
81,000,000
81,500,000
81,500,000
27,073,132
33,016,109
19,554,930
14,984,291
9,671,901
13,104,753
15,676,108
8,665,595
8,142,082
6,404,974
6,723,988
7,351,215
6,620,408
6,926,813
38,116,688
37,065,588
41,805,502
50,387,310
58,054,575
61,263,615
65,287,663
691,418,998
1,342,930,936
1,405,426,797
1,561,649,514
1,945,998,352
2,331,954,166
2,378,038,181
6,142,077
8,849,442
11,839,552
20,053,762
6,916,380
7,640,207
7,192,619
20,747,094
31,554,009
21,069,139
11,335,738
45,903.397
24,623,142
67,946,616
8,886,358
7,070,106
4,578,957
7,321,014
7,665,681
5,298,724
7,288,481
14,049,319
10,016,167
8,244,417
10,084,551
10,676,453
7,939,162
9,049,987
8,615,034
9,880,336
6,279,917
26,120,908
75,980,123
9,779,949
14,655,558
5,440,951
3,388,278
3,882,775
3,421,246
3,417,506
3,514,645
3,362,169
248,453
501,787
374,985
422,088
474,161
388,831
1,675,000
12,169
3,728,000
30,040,442
13,350,657
9,590,968
24,552,496
19,566,978
19,543,077
33,000
41
80
1,370
26,183,953
44,681,145
102,467,543
185,992,616
297,313,037
1,042,673
2,006,837
35,450,589
43,148,719
8,087,290
9,243,712
8,276,569
8,114,740
72,116
105,090
54,573,460
105,177,749
32,966,020
1,614,778
58,037,896
742,542,445
679,370,770
609,621,777
605,481,106
685,475,772
1,727,732,727
95,154,944
77,097,358
83,977,700
52,843,573
89,922,812
205,313,008
84,160,507
0,340,595
904,050,669
853,894,509
810,449,098
968,472,140
1,263,024,001
2,426,505,346

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
315,780
37,956,679
42,434,768
46,676,378
54,842,962
60,941,003
70,898,001
1,715,227
0,948,953
34,969,187
41,123,432
45,807,465
54,782,049
65,211,034
60,049,580
78,000,000
78,000,000
81,000,000
81,000,000
81,500,000
81,500,000
27,073,132
33,016,109
19,554,930
14,984,291
9,671,901
13,104,755
15,676,108
8,665,595
8,142,082
6,404,974
6,723,988
7,351,215
6,620,408
6,926,813
38,116,688
37,065,588
41,805,502
50,387,310
58,054,575
61,263,615
65,287,665
91,418,998
1,342,930,935
1,405,426,797
1,561,649,514
1,945,998,352
2,331,954,166
2,378,058,181
6,142,077
8,849,442
11,839,552
20,053,762
6,916,380
7,640,207
7,192,619
20,747,094
51,354,009
21,069,139
11,335,738
45,903.397
24,623,142
67,946,616
8,886,358
7,070,106
4,578,957
7,321,014
7,665,681
5,298,724
7,288,481
14,049,319
10,016,167
8,244,417
10,084,551
10,676,453
7,939,162
9,049,987
8,613,034
9,880,336
6,279,917
26,120,908
75,980,123
9,779,949
14,655,558
3,440,931
5,388,278
3,882,775
3,421,246
3,417,506
3,514,645
3,352,169
248,453
501,787
374,985
422,088
474,161
388,831
1,675,000
12,169
3,728,000
30,040,442
13,350,657
9,590,968
24,552,496
19,566,978
19,543,077
33,000
41
80
1,370
26,183,953
44,681,145
102,467,543
185,992,616
297,313,037
1,042,673
2,006,837
35,450,589
43,148,719
8,087,290
9,243,712
8,276,569
8,114,740
72,116
105,090
54,573,460
105,177,749
32,966,020
1,614,778
753,037,896
742,542,445
679,370,770
609,621,777
605,481,106
685,475,772
1,727,732,727
95,154,944
77,097,358
83,977,700
52,843,373
89,922,812
205,313,008
84,160,507
40,340,595
904,050,669
853,894,509
810,449,098
968,472,140
1,263,024,001
2,426,505,346
83,586,754
1,427,341,802
1,477,972,836
1,709,633,462
2,219,056,574
2,704,189,387
2,992,650,293
51,759,594
2,246,981,605
2,259,321,306
2,372,098,612
2,914,470,492
3,594,978,167
4,804,543,527
1'Empire du Japon, 1939, p. 123.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Table C
STATE
EXPENDITURE,
1928/29
1928/29
1929/30
1930/31
1931/32
1932/38
1955/34
CLOSED
ACCO
Ordinary Expenditure
Imperial Household
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
Foreign Affairs
16,464,609
16,596,022
16,152,206
15,221,322
15,653,651
16,975,857
Home Affairs
49,522,027
49,280,595
45,718,708
44,546,208
49,823,409
51,345,337
Finance
332,778,490
325,536,426
313,913,025
251,453,076
326,517,412
384,370,666
Army
167,619,958
178,898,954
174,546,262
165,679,857
148,266,002
166,471,447
Navy
143,025,586
147,648,527
146,887,939
138,913,685
140,740,187
179,027,099
Justice
33,580,839
34,862,328
33,848,715
31,764,749
31,840,213
55,541,111
Education
118,135,858
121,422,147
131,207,608
129,224,601
128,051,940
129,185,377
Agriculture and Forestry
26,717,829
30,469,359
31,777,449
28,138,809
28,085,979
28,797,708
Commerce and Industry
4,824,684
5,203,870
5,002,153
4,735,517
4,616,857
5,005,639
Commumications
287,072,262
296,046,667
296,218,812
297,308,346
302,665,988
309,863,816
Orerseas Affairs
2,261,987
2,379,811
2,843,024
2,121,029
1,955,952
Welfare
Total ordinary
expenditure
1,184,241,592
1,212,726,860
1,202,152,686
1,111,824,194
1,182,862,617
1,313,017,990
Extraordinary Expenditure
Foreign Affairs
4,247,026
6,631,673
3,317,371
8,248,458
20,081,926
13,724,585
Home Affairs
250,965,081
170,860,954
99,369,496
92,883,953
170,043,107
183,647,669
Finance
59,421,284
26,185,913
21,564,107
16,528,098
15,278,609
20,042,133
Army
81,486,230
48,356,073
26,278,022
63,808,368
225,309,401
296,173,469
Navy
125,105,900
120,016,540
95,147,008
88,214,905
172,069,157
230,948,045
Justice
4,168,373
2,570,208
902,824
1,041,345
1,230,970
1,703,225
Education
16,765,245
22,951,691
12,112,394
8,014,654
20,051,304
22,920,388
Agriculture and Forestry
27,525,897
28,563,750
27,077,935
26,897,853
71,348,614
93,276,349
Commerce and Industry
7,241,798
6,271,424
5,921,674
5,656,570
6,651,696
7,809,147
Commmunications
58,686,588
60,877,841
89,277,095
31,508,725
41,242,255
43,307,950
Overseas Affairs
30,304,628
24,745,121
25,248,161
23,970,968
28,091,287
Welfare
Total extraordinary
expenditure
630,613,420
523,590,195
855,711,046
365,051,071
767,278,007
941,644,246
Grand Total
1,814,855,012
1,736,317,055
1,557,863,732
1,476,875,265
1,950,140,624
2,254,662,236
Souroe:
Kinyu Jiko Sankosho - Referenoe book on financial matters, published by the Finanoe Ministry, December 1959,

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
EXPENDITURE,
1928/29
1939/40
1952/88
1988/34
1934/35
1935/36
1936/87
1957/38
1938/39
1959/40
CLOSED
ACCOUNTS
BUDGET
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
4,500,000
15,653,651
16,975,857
17,437,786
17,060,563
17,508,746
17,467,551
18,034,625
20,960,154
49,825,409
51,345,337
52,493,712
52,191,011
60,914,368
45,296,183
49,388,684
48,358,073
326,517,412
384,370,666
405,752,335
415,856,596
413,624,686
456,401,295
679,999,592
928,329,465
148,266,002
166,471,447
168,790,412
179,904,984
191,433,463
160,567,300
130,702,026
215,357,720
140,740,187
179,027,099
199,429,949
216,446,728
236,408,109
273,087,776
286,837,839
292,726,665
31,840,215
55,541,111
36,037,415
36,867,468
38,129,398
44,499,419
48,459,905
48,764,223
128,031,940
129,185,377
129,508,091
130,321,218
131,144,561
155,314,972
133,451,863
143,173,035
28,085,979
28,797,708
29,757,539
30,399,756
33,602,441
34,504,955
38,426,639
44,709,979
4,616,857
5,005,639
5,353,628
5,516,926
5,765,104
6,503,947
6,790,526
8,377,413
302,665,988
309,863,816
175,775,351
177,975,764
185,982,437
184,129,394
196,952,388
241,694,365
2,121,029
1,933,952
1,946,330
1,951,236
2,164,233
2,255,669
2,367,479
2,703,635
46,722,161
103,613,767
78,516,299
,182,862,617
1,313,017,990
1,224,782,544
1,268,992,250
1,819,175,546
1,409,250,592
1,599,505,331
2,078,151,020
20,081,926
13,724,585
15,495,251
13,206,036
14,587,108
32,676,039
30,141,050
36,988,745
170,045,107
183,647,669
145,412,758
134,084,220
152,267,744
226,457,623
242,701,936
282,987,314
15,278,609
20,042,133
27,885,859
20,438,128
23,712,667
57,295,723
411,178,678
671,596,105
225,309,401
296,173,469
289,738,546
316,653,587
519,285,926
430,907,866
356,798,161
785,065,198
172,069,157
230,948,045
283,922,626
319,931,278
331,042,417
372,277,203
392,408,263
534,025,767
1,230,970
1,703,225
2,416,531
2,838,498
2,907,773
3,888,688
4,133,759
4,267,446
20,051,304
22,920,388
25,224,171
20,778,696
11,429,234
12,327,213
12,510,792
21,788,551
71,348,614
93,276,349
100,069,627
73,048,137
65,024,755
80,847,107
94,281,249
129,230,249
6,651,696
7,809,147
8,046,386
6,892,591
11,389,353
21,894,928
45,939,645
90,325,688
41,242,255
43,307,950
19,451,344
14,094,924
14,408,638
18,154,675
64,974,384
68,995,399
23,970,968
28,091,287
20,579,465
15,519,588
16,944,614
29,561,788
26,273,739
44,709,345
13,650,038
47,182,075
56,414,711
767,278,007
941,644,246
938,221,361
937,485,683
965,000,227
1,299,906,891
1,688,523,729
2,726,392,507
L,950,140,624
2,254,662,236
2,163,003,905
2,206,477,935
2,282,175,773
2,709,157,485
3,288,029,060
4,804,543,527
manoe Ministry, December 1939, pp. 163-165.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Table D
TEMPORARY
WAR
EXPENDITURE
SPECIAL
1937 - 1938
1938 - 19
Amount transforred from general account
Estimates approved by
Amount trans-
7lst Diet Session
ferred from
1st Supple-
4th Supple-
Estimates ap-
Total at end
Estimates 
2nd Reserve
mentary
mentary
proved by 72nd
of 1937-38
proved by
Fund
Budget
Budgot
Total
Diet Session
fiscal year
Diet Sessic
Expenditure:
Army
10,198,223
46,084,360
257,023,910
313,306,493
1,422,712,777
1,736,019,270
3,257,000
Navy
9,100,000
95,000,000
104,100,000
349,958,381
454,058,381
1,043,000
Reserve fund
40,000,000
60,000,000
100,000,000
250,000,000
350,000,000
550,000
Totals
10,198,223
95,184,360
412,023,910
517,406,493
2,022,671,158
2,540,077,651
4,850,000
Sourçes of revenue:
Publio loans
10,198,223
95,184,360
306,000,886
411,383,469
2,022,671,158
2,434,054,627
4,453,489
Temporary loans
36,591,321
36,591,321
36,591,321
Transferred from other
accounts
2,883,342
2,883,342
2,883,342
423,078
General account
318,301
Special accounts
2,883,342
2,883,342
2,883,342
104,77
Kwantung Bureau
165,738
165,738
4,590
Commmications
16,000
Imperial railways
40,000
Government - General
of Korea
1,583,933
1,583,933
26,97
Government - General
of Formosa
1,065,021
1,065,021
14,55
Karafuto Government
68,650
68,650
2,67
North China. affair
special tax
66,548,361
66,548,361
66,548,361
9,02
Publio contributions to
the war fund
1,00
Misoellaneous income
Totals
10,198,223
95,184,360
412,023,910
517,406,493
2,022,671,158
2,540,077,651
4,886,59
Souroe:
Toyo Keizai Tokei Geppo, April 1939, p. 17; March 1940, p. 15.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
MPORARY
WAR
EXPENDITURE
SPECIAL
ACCOUNT
1938 - 1959
1939 - 1940
1940 - 1941
Estimates ap-
Total at end
Estimates ap-
Total at end
Estimates ap-
Total at end
Estimates ap-
Total at begin-
proved by 72nd
of 1937-38
proved by 73rd
of 1938-39
proved by 74th
of 1939-40
proved by 75th
ning of 1940-41
Diet Session
fiscal year
Diet Session
fiscal year
Diet Session
fiscal year
Diet Session
fiscal year
1,422,712,777
1,736,019,270
3,257,000,000
4,993,019,270
3,143,000,000
8,136,019,270
2,973,000,000
11,109,019,270
349,958,381
454,058,381
1,043,000,000
1,497,058,381
812,000,000
2,309,058,881
737,000,000
3,046,058,381
250,000,000
350,000,000
550,000,000
900,000,000
650,000,000
1,550,000,000
750,000,000
2,300,000,000
2,022,671,158
2,540,077,651
4,850,000,000
7,390,077,651
4,605,000,000
11,995,077,651
4,460,000,000
16,455,077,651
2,022,671,158
2,434,054,627
4,463,489,938
6,887,544,565
3,924,070,428
10,811,614,993
3,673,872,000
14,485,486,995
36,591,321
36,591,321
56,591,321
36,591,321
2,883,342
423,078,095
425,961,437
661,853,212
1,087,814,649
760,581,000
1,848,395,649
518,301,081
318,301,081
535,186,863
855,487,944
600,000,000
1,453,487,944
2,883,342
104,777,014
107,660,356
126,666,349
234,326,705
160,581,000
394,907,706
4,590,028
7,410,221
12,165,987
12,690,000
24,855,987
16,000,000
16,000,000
32,000,000
17,000,000
49,000,000
40,000,000
40,000,000
80,000,000
50,000,000
130,000,000
26,977,802
40,927,826
69,489,561
50,481,000
119,970,561
14,537,809
17,658,295
33,261,125
23,362,000
56,623,125
2,671,375
4,670,007
7,410,032
6,776,000
14,186,032
66,548,361
9,023,288
75,571,649
75,571,649
3,871,000
79,442,640
1,000,000
1,000,000
2,000,000
3,000,000
1,500,000
4,500,000
17,076,360
17,076,360
20,174,000
37,250,360
2,022,671,158
2,540,077,651
4,886,591,521
7,426,668,972
4,605,000,000
12,031,668,972
4,460,000,000
16,491,666,972

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Table B
GOVERNMENT
1937
(In millia
Government Debt
National Bond
Tobal amount
Internal debt
China Incident Bonds
outstanding
outstanding
(end of year
(end of year
General
Special
Discount
or month)
or month)
series
series
bonds
1936:
December
10,395.2
9,072.1
1937:
First half
Maroh
June
10,580.3
9,264.7
Total
Second half
July
10,577.9
9,265.8
August
10,778.7
9,469.6
September
10,785.6
9,476.7
100.0
October
11,085.9
9,776.7
200.0
November
11,284.6
9,976.8
200.0
Decamber
11.892.9
10,585.1
400.0
Total
900.0
Total 1937
900.0
1938:
First half
January
12,189.7
10,885.7
300.0
February
12,486.6
11,186.3
300.0
Maroh
12,817.3
11,517.0
April
13,021.1
11,720.8
200.0
May
13,319.9
12,021.4
300.0
June
13,720.6
12,422.1
400.0
Total
1,500.0
1
Second half
July
14,026.8
12,732.6
300.0
August
14,423.7
13,133.6
397.0
3.5
September
14,824.0
13,533.9
October
15,524.2
14,234.1
697.0
3.0
November
16,522.3
14,234.3
December
16,222.7
14,954.7
693.0
7.0
Total
2,087.0
15.5
2
Total 1938
2,587.0
13.5
8
1939:
First half
January
16,618.4
15,334.8
400.0
February
16,914.7
15,635.0
1.95.0
5.0
March
17,344.9
16,065.1
100.0
April
17,645.2
16,365.4
297.0
3.0
May
18,043.9
16,766.1
400.0
June
18,445.0
17,167.7
590.0
10.0
Total
1,782.0
8.0
10.0
1
Second half
July
18,843.8
17,570.9
400.0
August
19,548.5
18,079.6
495.0
6.5
September
19,855.9
18,585.0
200.0
Ootober
20,456.6
19,187.7
580.0
20.0
November
20,859.4
19,592.8
December
21,520.2
20,253.6
570.0
30.0

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Maroh
June
10,580.3
9,264.7
Total
Seoond half
July
10,577.9
9,265.8
August
10,778.7
9,469.6
September
10,785.6
9,476.7
100.0
October
11,085.9
9,776.7
200.0
November
11,284.6
9,976.8
200.0
December
11.892.9
10,585.1
400.0
Total
900.0
Total 1937
900.0
1988:
First half
January
12,189.7
10,885.7
300.0
February
12,486.6
11,186.3
300.0
Maroh
12,817.3
11,517.0
April
13,021.1
11,720.8
200.0
May
13,319.9
12,021.4
300.0
June
13,720.6
12,422.1
400.0
Total
1,500.0
1
Seoond half
July
14,026.8
12,732.6
300.0
August
14,423.7
13,133.6
397.0
3.5
September
14,824.0
13,533.9
October
15,524.2
14,234.1
697.0
3.0
November
15,522.3
14,234.3
December
16,222.7
14,934.7
693.0
7.0
Total
2,087.0
13.5
20
Total 1938
2,587.0
13.5
1939:
First half
January
16,618.4
15,334.8
400.0
February
16,914.7
15,635.0
195.0
5.0
March
17,344.9
16,065.1
100.0
April
17,645.2
16,365.4
297.0
3.0
May
18,043.9
16,766.1
400.0
June
18,445.0
17,167.7
390.0
10.0
Total
1,782.0
8.0
10.0
1
Second half
July
18,843.8
17,570.9
400.0
August
19,548.5
18,079.6
495.0
6.5
Soptember
19,853.9
18,585.0
200.0
Ootober
20,456.6
19,187.7
580.0
20.0
November
20,859.4
19,592.8
December
21,520.2
20,253.6
570.0
30.0
Total
2,045.0
56.5
2.
Total 1939
3,827.0
66.5
3
1940
First half
Jamuary
21,915.4
400.0
February
22,415.9
180.0
20.0
Maroh
22,886.0
21,628.0
200.0
Souroe:
Zaisei (Finance), Toyo Keizai Tokei Geppo, Oriental Eoonomist, Mitsubishi Monthly Ciroular
Far Eastern Financial Notes - U. S. Department of Conmerce.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
ISSUES
ren)
Underwritten by:
Net resales by
Bank of Japan
National
Bond
Deposit
Bank of
Sold through
rotal
Others
Total
Syndicate
Bureau
Japan
Total
post offices
185.0
185.0
50.0
135.0
185.0
185.0
50.0
135.0
200.0
200.0
200.0
159.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
30.0
200.0
200.0
200.0
72.0
200.0
200.0
100.0
100.0
77.0
68.0
400.0
200.0
600.0
100.0
500.0
80.0
900.0
400.0
1,300.0
100.0
200.0
1,000.0
421.0
68.0
900.0
585.0
1,485.0
100.0
250.0
1,135.0
421.0
68.0
800.0
300.0
50.0
250.0
174.0
300.0
300.0
50.0
250.0
252.0
50.8
330.0
330.0
50.0
280.0
237.0
200.0
200.0
200.0
294.0
51.2
300.0
300.0
100.0
200.0
64.0
400.0
400.0
50.0
350.0
384.0
72.0
500.0
330.0
1,830.0
300.0
1,530.0
1,408.0
174.0
500.0
500.0
50.0
250.0
364.0
400.5
400.5
100.0
300.5
324.0
400.0
400.0
400.0
311.0
87.1
700.0
700.0
100.0
600.0
269.0
93.1
243.0
700.0
700.0
100.0
600.0
317.0
105.4
100.5
400.0
2,500.5
850.0
2,150.5
1,730.0
285.5
600.5
730.0
4,330.5
650.0
3,680.5
3,158.0
469.5
400.0
400.00
50.0
350.0
362.0
200.0
100.0
300.0
100.0
200.0
247.0
100.0
330.0
430.0
130.0
300.0
203.0
66.3
800.0
300.0
200.0
100.0
205.0
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
396.0
59.4
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
239.0
87.0
800.0
450.0
2,230.0
680.0
1,550.0
1,654.0
212.7
00.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
338.0
501.5
150.0
351.5
257.0
70.3
00.0
300.0
500.0
100.0
400.0
404.0
500.0
600.0
100.0
500.0
187.0
400.0
400.0
100.0
500.0
152.0
80.2
00.0
250.0
650.0
150.0
500.0
339.0
114.6

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
185.0
185.0
50.0
135.0
185.0
185.0
50.0
135.0
200.0
200.0
200.0
159.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
80.0
200.0
200.0
200.0
72.0
200.0
200.0
100.0
100.0
77.0
68.0
400.0
200.0
600.0
100.0
500.0
80.0
900.0
400.0
1,300.0
100.0
200.0
1,000.0
421.0
68.0
900.0
585.0
1,485.0
100.0
250.0
1,135.0
421.0
68.0
300.0
300.0
50.0
250.0
174.0
300.0
300.0
50.0
250.0
252.0
50.8
330.0
330.0
50.0
280.0
237.0
200.0
200.0
200.0
294.0
51.2
300.0
300.0
100.0
200.0
64.0
400.0
400.0
50.0
350.0
384.0
72.0
500.0
330.0
1,830.0
300.0
1,530.0
1,408.0
174.0
300.0
300.0
50.0
250.0
364.0
400.5
400.5
100.0
300.5
324.0
87.1
400.0
400.0
400.0
311.0
700.0
700.0
100.0
600.0
269.0
93.1
243.0
700.0
700.0
100.0
600.0
317.0
105.4
100.5
400.0
2,500.5
350.0
2,150.5
1,730.0
285.5
600.5
730.0
4,330.5
650.0
3,680.5
3,138.0
469.5
400.0
400.00
50.0
350.0
362.0
200.0
100.0
300.0
100.0
200.0
247.0
100.0
330.0
430.0
130.0
300.0
203.0
66.3
800.0
300.0
200.0
100.0
205.0
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
396.0
69.4
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
239.0
87.0
800.0
430.0
2,230.0
680.0
1,550.0
1,654.0
212.7
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
338.0
501.5
501.5
150.0
351.5
257.0
70.3
200.0
300.0
500.0
100.0
400.0
404.0
600.0
600.0
100.0
500.0
187.0
80.2
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
152.0
400.0
250.0
650.0
150.0
500.0
339.0
114.6
101.5
950.0
3,051.5
700.0
2,351.5
265.2
901.5
1,380.0
5,281.5
1,380.0
3,901.5
478.0
400.0
400.0
100.0
300.0
267.0
200.0
500.0
500.0
200.0
300.0
200.0
00.0
265.0
465.0
365.0
100.0
270.0

=== Page 198 === (confidence 1.00)
Table F
BUDGET ESTIMATES OF GENERAL ACCOUNT REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FOR 1940-41
(In million yen)
1940-41
1939-40
Receipts:
Ordinary
3,305.0
2,395.3
Taxes
2,978.8
2,093.4
Other
326.2
301.8
Extraordinary
2,731.3
2,441.2
Taxes
555.9
501.6
Proceeds of loans
1,906.5
1,727.7
Other
268.9
211.9
Total receipts
6,036.3
4,836.6
Total taxes
3,534.8
2,595.0
Expenditure:
Ordinary
2,747.9
2,109.9
Extraordinary
3,349.3
2,772.6
Total
6,097.3
4,882.6
Imperial Household
4.5
4.5
Foreign Affairs
69.3
58.4
Home Affairs
521.9
333.0
Finance
1,902.3
1,618.6
Army
1,275.0
1,000.4
Navy
1,029.0
826.7
Justice
57.3
53.2
Education
188.0
165.3
Agriculture and Fores try
266.1
209.3
Commerce and Industry
166.0
103.6
Communications
400.8
310.6
Overseas Affairs
63.9
47.4
Welfare
152.6
146.3
Army and Navy
2,304.1
1,827.1
Debt Service
923.1
763.0
Source:
Mitsubishi Monthly Circular, May 1940 - Receipts for
1940-4l are final estimates and account for the de-
crease in revenue from taxes by the revision of the
tax reform. Revenue and Expenditure for 1939-40
represent the revised budget; these figures differ
slightly from those given in Table B and Table C due
to supplementary budgets, details of which were not
available.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
LE
Au 8 - 1940
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
RDS
PLAIN
FROM
MANILA VIA N.R.
Dated August 3, 1940
REc'd 1 a.m., 4th.
Divisien of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
rychortion
SecrEtary of Stat, AG 6- 1940
815740
Washington.
artment of State
-1940
8961.51
file
660
DEPARIML
MR. HORNBECK
AUG-7 1940
your 33 FEbruary 19 and 43, March 6.
Information transmitted therein was conveyed to Com-
894.51/669
monwEalth GovErnmEnt which July 31 writ ThE Collector
of Customs of Iloilo has rEceived a lEtter from thE con-
signεE of thosε bonds stating that inasmuch as his uncle
from Japan was unawarE of thE fact that the sEnding of
thE Eight bonds to him was a violation of the Securities
6
act of 1933, hE rEquEsts that thEsE bonds bE rEturnEd to
their sender in the country of origin. The insular Col-
FILED
1ector of Customs rEquEsts an opinion as to whEther said
bonds may bE rEturned to thE country of origin.
1940
WhilE it would appear that thesE bonds arE subject
to forfEiturE by virtuE of sEction 1363(f) of thE rEvisEd
administrativE codE, yEt in viEw of thE naturE of the
matter, thE viEws of your officE will bE apprEciated."
FleasE consult SEcuritiEs Commission and radio reply
F/FG
to bE madE to Commonwealth Government.
EMB
SAYRE

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.77)
August7,1940
  md t  Dernt's leter of
 nd t reur regly f Febeeary 2. in reare
ensen resciyed fren the Wmited States High
mieniemer to the Philippine Ialande relating to the
ertatien ite the Palippimes of eight dapamese Sor
894.51/66
erement hende appareatly fer sale to dapanese restdents
Philippimes. the infermation centaimed in your
at Fetary  m trnised to the Migh o
9
6
s h aer ver t  Ropert

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.78)
centesiom and radie
Feelime thes the determimation of whes motiom soule
 taken porsuans te the Philippime Revised Adinstre
save Cede is a matter te be settled by tme stherities
f the Gonmonveelth Severament, the Bepartent is of the
aien that the enly question ef se te this Gevere-
mans is mhether tme Secmrities Aet ef l933 mould posmis
 be t b retred te the sender in the oy ef
She Departeeat sould appresiate pour views in regard
mis mr  er t arerte rly ye
simserely yours,
For the Mearetary of stater
the signes origi-
fhio
PA/E
A-
alreat
mmn.
a
es

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL IAe
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 15, 1940
Dorotary: coby Toly
BCR
Reference attached two memoranda of con-
versations with Mr. Joseph Tumulty.
In summary, Mitsubishi and Company,
whioh is a very large Japanese holding company
with wide interests, proposes to increase its
capital stock by some ¥82,000,000 for the
purpose of retiring outstanding loans and
obligations and bringing its capital structure
up to its present and future needs. Mitsubishi
and Company has greatly extended its manu-
faoturing and trading activities during the
last five years.
Mitsubishi and Company and the Tidewater
Associated Oil Company have since 1929 jointly
owned a Japanese subsidiary of Mitsubishi and
Dompany. This subsidiary operates an oil
refinery in the neighborhood of Tokyo.
Mitsubishi and Company has invited the
Tidewater Associated Oii Company to subscribe
to 10,O00 shares of the new stock. The Tide-
water Associated Oil Company proposes, provided
the Government of the United States does not
object thereto, to subscribe to 2,500 shares
of the new issue. The value of the 2,500
shares would be ¥275,000 or US$90,000. The
transaction would not involve the sending of
funds from the United States to Japan. The
purchase price of the stock would be paid
for

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
for by dividends to which the Tidewater Asso-
ciated Oil Company is and may become entitled
to from the oil company in Japan in which it
is interested. There is now due to the Tide-
water Associated Oil Company a sum of ¥l00,000
and there is shortly to become due the further
sum of ¥150,O00. The balance would be paid
for by future dividends from the Japanese oil
company.
It is suggested that FE be authorized to
inform Mr. Tumulty that, for the reasons out-
lined to him by Mr. Hamilton, the Department
of State hopes that the Tidewater Associated
Oil Company will decide not to subscribe to
the stock offered to it by Mitsubishi and
Company.
JUL 17 1940
PA/H
FE:Adams:HJN

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
July 24 1940
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: July 12, 1940
'Proposed Purohase by American Companies of
UBJE
Stock in a Japanese Company
Divisionof
FAR EASDERNAFFAIRS
was Secretary to President Wilson).
Department of S
Ccpy sent to Tokyo
m
Mr. Hamilton
Mr. Adams
COPIES TO:
OFFICE OF THE AVISER CN
INTERNATITONAL FCONIMIC AFFAIRS
MR. HOINBECK
ADVISER
JUL 26 1940
JUL 1 5 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1—1498
894.51/670
Mr. Tumulty was referred to the Division of Far
Eastern Affairs by the Legal Adviser's office.
Mr. Tumulty said that his father was Washington
attorney for the Tidewater Associated Oil Company,
which owned some stook in Mitsubishi and Company. He
said that Mitsubishi and Company was interested in
financing one of its subsidiaries, an oil company, and
844.51
to that end had offered the Tidewater Assooiated Oil
Company a block of stock valued at approximately $275,000.
Mr. Tumulty understood that Mitsubishi and Company would
also offer stock to other American firms. He desired to
H9LED
know whether the Department of State had any objection
the proposed transaction. He indicated that if there
5
was
F
N

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
was no objection, the Tidewater Associated Oil Company
was prepared to purchase the stock offered by Mitsubishi
and Company.
Inquiry revealed that Mr. Tumulty was not acquainted
with the details concerning the organization and activities
of the Japanese oil company being sponsored by Mitsubishi
and Company, and that he did not know the details connected
with the offer of the stock. In response to further in-
quiry he said that he would obtain information in regard
to the activities of the firm in which it was proposed
that the Tidewater Associated Oil Company should purchase
stock and some details concerning the offer of the stock,
and would inform Mr. Hamilton in regard thereto not later
than Monday, July 15.
Mr. Hamilton indicated that he could not express
any definite views in regard to the proposed transaction
without having more information concerning it. He out-
lined, however, the Department's general policy toward
assistance which might help the Japanese venture in
China. He also pointed out that some time ago credit
conditions in Japan had caused the Department of Com-
merce to issue a statement advising that American firms
obtain an irrevocable letter of credit before shipping
goods

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
goods to Japan. It was pointed out to Mr. Tumulty that
we had had a number of requests from American firms for
assistance in getting money out of Japan which had been
frozen there by exchange restrictions but that we had not
had any requests for advice recently with respect to
putting money into Japan. Mr. Tumulty thanked Mr. Hamilton
and Mr. Adams for the observations which had been made and
repeated that he would call again with additional informa-
tion. As he was departing, Mr. Hamilton said to him that,
as he had probably gathered, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Adams
were not enthusiastic about the proposed transaction.
？人
W4
FE:Adams:BLS

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE:
July 15, 1940
SUBJECT:
Proposed Puohase By American Companies of
Stook in a Japanese Company
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Joseph Tumulty (son of the Mr. Tumulty who
was Seoretary to President Wilson).
Cpy sent to Tokyo
Mr. Hamilton
Mr. Adams
COPIES TO:
MR. HORNBECK
894.51
JUL 15 1940
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ld
894.51
/67
1—1403
Mr. Tumulty called on July 15 to supplement informa-
tion which he had given Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Adams on
July 12.
Mr. Tumulty said that he wished to correct his state-
ment in regard to the amount of stock the Tidewater As-
sociated Oil Company proposed to subscribe. The amount was
275,000 yen (amounting to approximately US$90,000) and not
US$275,O00, as he had said. Mr. Tumulty continued as
FI111
follows:
The stock offered is in the holding company of
Mitsubishi and Company. Mitaubishi and Company owns a
number of subsidiaries, including the one which it has
owned jointly with the Tidewater Associated Oil Company
on
F/N

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
on a fifty-fifty basis since 1929. The Tidewater As-
sociated O1l Company was asked to subscribe to 10,000
shares of the new stock but the company is considering
the purchase of only 2,500 shares, which amount to
one-third of one percent of the proposed increase.
(Note: If 275,000 yen represents one-third of one
percent of the proposed increase, that increase would
2ToTaQ
amount to th m qe of yen 82,500,000.) There
are a number of other subsidiaries in which American
companies are associated with Mitsubishi and Company.
Westinghouse Electric Company is one of such American
companies, and it is also being invited to subscribe
to the ramt issue being offered by Mitaubishi and
Company.
The purpose of the increase in capital stock of
Mitsubishi and Company is to retire outstanding loans
and obligations and to bring the capital structure
of the company up to the present and future needs of
the business. Mitsubishi and Company has greatly ex-
tended its manufacturing and trading activities during
the last five years. The Tidewater Associated Oil
Company does not know whether any of the new capital
resulting from the new issue of capital stock will be
used in China but does not think that it will be so used.
The

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
The subsidiary oil company which the Tidewater As-
sociated Oil Company jointly owns with Mitsubishi and
Company operates a refinery in the neighborhood of
Tokyo.
The proposed purchase of stock would be made out
of dividends from the subsidiary. At the present time
dividends amounting to yen 100,000 are payable to the
Tidewater Associated Oil Company and 150,O00 yen in
dividends is about to become due. Up to now the
Tidewater Associated Oil Company has been able to
receive its dividends but no permit has yet been ob-
tained to cover the remittance of the lo0,0o0 yen now
due. Mr. Tumulty pointed out that no new American
money would be put into Japan and that the balance due
on the new stock would be paid out of future dividends
due to the Tidewater Asscciated Oil Company.
The new issue is to be made in Japan. No pressure
1s being exerted on the Tidewater Associated Oil Company
to subscribe to stock in Mitsubishi and Company but the
Tidewater Associated Oil Company would like to make
the subscription for business reasons, if such course
1s not objectionable to the United States Government.
Mr. Tumulty said that in general the subsidiaries
of

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
of Mitsubishi and Company were being invited to subscribe
to the new issue but that exceptions were being made in
the cases of the Tidewater Associated Oil Company and
the Westinghouse Electric Company, which were being in-
vited to subsoribe. Mr. Tumulty did not know what pro-
portion of the new issue Mitsubishi and Company expeoted
to obtain from American companies. Mr. Tumulty under-
stood (although he did notkmow positively) that the
Westinghouse Electric Company was also not putting any
new money from the United States into the purchase of
stock in Mitsubishi and Company but would use accumulated
and future dividendsl its Japanese subsidiary.
WA
Mr. Hamilton thanked Mr. Tumulty for the informa-
tion which he had given and said that while in general
he felt that the Department's attitude would be along
the lines indicated at the time of Mr. Tumulty's last
call, the matter would be referred to higher officers
of the Department. It was arranged that Mr. Johnson,
secretary to Mr. Tumulty's father, would communicate with
Mr. Hamilton by noon on July 16 and would receive an in-
dication of the attitude of the Department of State
toward the proposed transaction.
WA
FE:Adams:MHP

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.80)
July
2001
Ambesder
The Aesine Seeretary of state eneleses for the
féentsal imfermatien of the American Ambeasader
4.51/671
mande, as lleted below, in regard te the pre-
pes pures by Ameriean cempanies of steek ia a
.
 of July 15, 1040.
C9C
KA

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
Assistant Secretary
of State
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGEECOMMISEION
AUG 12 1940
RECEIVED
ATMENT OF STAT
MR. GRADY
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN
DEPARIMENT OF SIATE
1940 AUG 13 AM 9 36
LE
Division of
August 10, 1940
E
AUG91940
TIONS
AND RECORDS
Department of State
The Honorable Henry F. Grady,
file
PI: BN:low
Assistant Secretary of State,
8/15740
Washington, D. C.
Your File Number PI 894.51/669
My dear Mr. Grady:
This is in reply to your letter of
894.51/672
August 7, 1940.
With reference to tne importation into
the Philippine Islands of eight Japanese Government
Bonds apparently for sale to Japanese residents
there, you request an opinion whether the Securities
Act of 1933 would permit the return of these bonds
to the sender in the Country of origin.
The Commission's General Counsel has
advised me that such return of the bonds would not
constitute a violation of the Act.
If I may be of further assistance, please
let me know.
Sincerely yours,
Lt Frank
Jerome N. Frank,
Chairman.
F/F
0016 190
DEPARTMENT OF ST
G

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
Washingioni
1940 AUG 17 PM 2 19
August15
2pm
DIVISION OF
MANILA (PHILIP)
COMMUNICATIONS
209
Your 512, August 3, in regard to the request of
sonsignee of/Japanese Government bonds that bonds be
turned to sender in country of origin.
Chairman or Securities and Exchange Commission
has advised the Department as follows:
894.51/672
QUOTE With referenee to the Ampertation into
the/Philippane Islands or eight Japanese Goyern-
ment Bonds apparently/for sale to Japanese resi-
dents/there, you-request an/opinion whether the
Securities Act of 1933 would permit the return of
these bonds to the sender An the Country of origin.
QUOTE The Commission's General Coungel has
advised me that such return of the bonds would not
constitute a violation or the Act. UNQUOTE
The Department refrains from expressing/an opinion
On the question of the propriety of the proposed action
under the Philippine Revised Administrative Code on the
grounds that such determination falls within the province
of the Commonwealth authorities.
Welle noting
(NS)
894.51/672
PI:HISS:LOM
PI
19.
1-1408
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
AUG 17 1940

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.96)
PAX
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
FE
DCR
SUBJECT:
Proposed Purchase by American Companies of
Stock in a Japanese Company
Disiond
FIR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Joseph Tumulty
Mr. Hamilton
Department of Slate
Cohy sent to Tohyo
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER 
MR. HORNBECK
INDERNATIONAL ECIONOAN AFAINS
COPIES TC
AUG101940G
AUG 12 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.51/673
GPO
1—1493
Mr. Joseph Tumulty called in further reference to
894.51
the question of the purchase by the Tidewater Associated
Oil Company of shares of stock in a Japanese subsidiary of
Mitsubishi and Company (see memoranda of conversations of
July 12 and July 15, 1940, on this subject). Mr. Tumulty
said that he had called merely to inform us that the
Tidewater Associated Oil Company, in view of the Department's
views, had decided not to subscribe to the stock offered to
it by Mitsubishi and Company.
I thanked Mr. Tumulty for his courtesy in callingnd
expressed appreciation of the attitude of the Tidevater
2
Associated Oil Company in the matter.
7.7/d.
F/N
FE:MMH:REK

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.78)
August15,1940
028
The Seeeetary of Seste refers te the Deperte
 Imstrsetion (ms. 2oo1) of July ta, loan
mes to the prepesed perehase by Ameriesn eemgants
omrsecetial information of the Amerioan Anbasaater a
 of a memerenten ef e convereation of Angest tn,
m an efflcer of the Depertment and r. Jesegh
hisb.
AUG141940TM

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT-CGELSTATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTER
July 15, 1940
aile
Reference Bulletin No. 18 prepared and
1ssued by the Chinese Council for Economic
Rosearch entitled "Wartime Public Finance of
Japan". There has been brought up-to-date each
yoar in EA a basic study of Japan's public
finance. This study has contained much basic
6
information in regard to public debt, public
4
expenditure, public revenue.
5
The bulletin under reference is a study
51/674
similar in character and scope to EA's study
and much of its information, being already
well-known to us, need not be read.
4
I suggest that you read the brief summary
beginning on page 24 and continuing to page 26.
In addition I would suggest that you glance at
the summary table of wartime expenditures on
page 18 and the summary information presented
on pages 20 and 21. The author does not draw
any important conclusions from the data he
presents but indicates that such conclusions
will appear in a subsequent bulletin.
mm.
2
Jm
B
FE:JOneS:HJN

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.95)
NAVAL OPERATI
EPARTMENT
ATTACHESREPORT
COMMA
DIVISION OF
/A Tokyo Date
June 20
File No. 300-505
Commenoe new series
(Belect proper number
Reliable
each January first)
from O. N. I. Inder)
Source of information
Subject
Japan
Finanee - Yinencial atrength or weakness
(Nation reported on)
(Index title as per index sbeet)
(Subtitle)
Reference
Baizr.—(The revlew, indexing, and distributlon of reports by O. N. I. will be greatly axpedited if a brief summary of the contents is entered in
this space. Mentica leading geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report.)
JAPANESE EFFORTS TO MKE PURCHASA ABROAD ON CREDIT
Japanese oil oompauies make unouccessful attempts to
purchase vil from the United tates on credit.
EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.5
Department of State
894.51
675
74te
894.6363
Distribution:
DNI
(7)
CinCAF
1
Gom 16
(1)
NA/Peiping
(1)
M/A Tokyo
(1)
ANA/Shanghai
(1)
FLLUD
File
(1)
H.H.Smith Hutton
Lt.-Comár., U.S.Navy.
Naval Attache
F/B
Bouting spesee belew are for wss in O. N. I.
Chook destination
eopy latesded for the partloular destinatlon so eesiraled.
UF-1OA-B-C-D-EVF
APNI
Directer
B-1,B-2,B-3,B-4,B-10,B-11,
B-12, B-13, B-14, B-15, B-16
Mone-
Ar
Bodget
C.N.O.
Board
Gen'l
College
War
M.LD.
Nev.
Ord
T.&D.
C.&R.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.&S.
Aera.
M.C.
U.S.
H.O.
Toch
Dev.
C. in C.
U. S.
Bat. For.
Com.
Sco. Fer.
Com.
C. ln C.
Asia
S.S.S.
Com.
Com.
Ak
Attaché at
Con. Div. W.P. Com. PLTr.
Return to
Use forms for all copies. Use only forms as supplied by O. N. I. Make all sketches, ete, unform in sise with this form where practical.
Submit extra copies
of clippings, carbons of sketohes, eto., where practioal. If practicable, submit sketches in suitable styles for bldeprinting or photostating.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 1.00)
Report No. 100
300 - Finance
Japan
305 - Financial strength or weakness
June 20, 1940
JAPANESE EFFORTS TO MAKE PURCHASES ABROAD ON CREDIT
Japan's shortage of gold and her increasingly large
unfavorable trade balance with non-yen bloc countries have
made it necessary for her to try to obtain credit from
foreign countries for the purchase of much needed commodities.
In the past few months certain purchases on from three to six
months credit have been negotiated successfully,- i.e. wheat
from Australia, rice from Siam and French Indo-China, cotton
from the United States and perhaps other commodities.
Recently the Japanese have made efforts to purchase oil
from American companies on credit, and by dishonest methods,
were almost successful. Japanese oil companies in requesting
credits for purchases, informed each of several American dealers
that the other companies were extend ing credit. In such cases,
the companies concerned would all be inclined to meet the terms
granted by their competitors. Unfortunately for Japan's plans,
the information that certain American oil companies were consid-
ering granting credits to Japanese oil companies reached the
Commercial Attache of the Embassy in Tokyo. He was able to
arrange through the State Department to have the negotiations
stopped. It developed later that the statements of the Japanese,-
that they had reen granted credits from any American oil con-
cern,-wer entirely untrue, and that these statements had been
made for the sole purpose of endeavoring to influence one or
more of the American companies.
In connection with the purchase of American cotton on
credit, it is understood that Japanese firms still owe American
companies some ¥60,000,000. It will probably be another three
or four months before these debts are paid.
Report No. 100-40

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Extension of credit to Japanese interests in China.
Mamorandum of conversation between Mr. Macgregor, Australian Trade
Commissioner and Mr. Jones, regarding - in connection with the
shipment of a large quantity of wheat flour to Shanghai.
894.51/676
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatch, lelegraum, Instruction, letter, eto.)
From FE (Jones)
Dated
July 23, 1940
To
File No.
893.51/7113
0. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTINS OFFICE 1-1540
14.51
2

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Cuarantee by the Mitsui and Company nd the
Yokohama Specie Bank for the extension of credit
to the Timmonsville Leaf Tobacco Company by the
Reconstruction Finance Corpcration for purchase
of 500,000 barrels of flour.
l/emorandum of conversation with Mr. Roy G. Allman
in regard to -
894.51/677
jb
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See _.._Memo.
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
DatedJuly 8. 1940
State Department
To
(Division of Far Eastern Afrairs)
(Adams)
File No. SEE 893.51/7117
U. 2. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1--1540
17

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Purchase of 500,O00 barrels of flour by the Timmonsville
Leaf Tobacco Company which would be transferred to
itsui and Co. for distribution in China.
emorandum of conversation between Mr. Hamilton and
Counselor of the Japanese Embassy in regard to
negotiations for the -
jb
00
5
678
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See .MEMO
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
State Department
From
Dated.._.July_29..1940
Division_ofFar Eastern Affairs
To
(iiamilton)
File No. SEE 893.51/7122
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540
2

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.94)
Tel to Shanghai troft0
20581
211/40 n
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EG
GRAY
Division of
Shanghai via N. R.
FAR EASTERH AFEATRS
FROM
SEP10 1940
Dated September 7, 1940
REc'd 1 am., 8th
20 copis 2 sect1-2.3-hCom
Storetary of State,
g.
SEP 11 1
Washington.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT GI STERE
1940
FROM ASSISTANT COMME RCIAL ATTACHE.
SEP 9
00rT O0 D.CA
Chine Forεign TradE Corporation, Shanghai, onE
of the Willian Hunt Enterprises, informs this Consulate
General in a letter dated SEptember 2 that on August 29
it signed an agrEemEnt with Mr. Y. Tatsuno, agent for
understood
Messrs. Taro Matsu Kanda end Yutaro Sato (who are to bE
ships-brokers at KobE and Tokyo) for a loan in thE sum
RREOR
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
of United States dollars two million rEpayablE in from
SEP 9 1940
DIVISION
six to twelvE months from thE datE on which thE money
is withdrawn from thE corporation. Agreement provides
OF
894.51/679
that thE JapanesE will borrow not lEss than United
States dollars onE million within thirty days and
possibly up to United States dollars two million within
894.51
ninety days from datE of agrEement, and that the loan is
nrli
to bE sEcurec by suitablE letters of credit to bE Effect-
894.5151
6
Ed by thE JapanEsE through thE Yokohama SpeciE Bank with
894.85
393.1157tunt
()
FILED
stated
1940
F/FG

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
2- #8083, SEptembEr 7, 1 p.m. SECTION ONE from Shanghai
stated also that thE credit is for purposE of Enabling
thE JapanEsE interEsts to acquirE shipping tonnagE and
is madE in pursuancE of pEmits stated to havE bEen
issued by thE JapanEsE Ministry of FinancE covering the
remittancE of foreign ExchangE. WhilE thE lEtter stated
specifically that thE agrEEment is for a "loan", both
the corporation and thE Shanghai branch of the National
City Bank of New York describE the transaction as merely
thE financing of a businEss transaction. ThE need for
dEfErrEd payment for which to accomodatE thE JapanEsE
buyErs of thE shipping tonnagE is apparently duE to the
fact that thE JapanEsE financing function in controlling
ExchangE customarily grant thE ExchangE cover for dE-
livery only six months after thE application is approved.
(END SECTION ONE)
BUTRICK
PEG

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
RDS
SHANGHAI VIA N.R.
FROM
Dated SEptEmber 7, 1940
Rec'd 7:05 p.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
883, SEptEmbEr 7, 1 p.m. (SECTION TWO)
Mr. Fritz Schick, VicE Chairman of thE corporation, a
Czechoslovakian, informed a mEmber of thE staff of this
ConsulatE General that thE transaction simply involves
borrowing money at onE ratE of interest and loaning at
a bEtter ratE, under wEll secured conditions, and that
the corporation has no interest in or knowlEdgE of thE
ThE
arrangEmEnts for purchasE of thE shipping tonnagE.
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
terms of thE agrEEment providE for what is tantamount
3E
DIVISION
to an 8% commission and 8% interest for thE corporation,
6
no Explanation being vouchsafed for such high rates.
1411
5
A clausE of thE agrEEmEnt as signEd by thE corporation
and thE JapanEsE partiEs statEs that it is understood
that (?) has no political aspects or purposes. The
Shanghai branch of thE National City Bank has advised
A/FU
thE corporation that if thE credit is opEned at New
York as stipulated, thE branch hErE will discount drafts
drawn by the corporation against it, but the branch's
manager hErE has informed a mEmber of thE staff of this
Consulate

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #883, SEptEmbEr 7, 1 p.m., (SECTION TWO) from
Shanghai via N.R.
ConsulatE GenEral that hE doEs not bEliEvE that thE
Yokohama SpEcig Bank will accommodatE thE JapanEsE
borrowers, hEncE that the transaction may not go through.
It is surmised that thE shipping tonnagE involved con-
sists of a considerablE number of formErly ChinesE
owned small coastal vEssels nov lying at Shanghai which
havE bEEn flying thE JapanEsE flag and operating prin-
cipally bEtwEen Shanghai and coastal ports to thE south
rEmaininE under ChinEsE National GovErnment control,
which traffic is now stoppEd by the JapanEsE naval
blockadE of thE ports concerned.
(END OF SECTION TWO)
BUTRICK
EMB
