894.918 Public Press., Japan, Restriction Of The Press. Censorship., December 30, 1930 - July 6, 1939 (File 1108)
ID: 894.918-1108   Pages: 104   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.918-public-press-japan-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
RECD
EMBASSYOFTHE
2
Tokyo, Dapmber 30, 1930.
No. 96.
4
E
6
5
Division of
OF
STA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
111031
JAN 14 31
Degtrcson a Ststa
Cryu FE
84
00
6
4
.918/
1
4
JAN 1 1931
FILED
The Honoraple
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report an incident which,
touching the freedom of the press in Japan, has had
unforeseen consequences of considerable political
894.91/3
moment.
With the Embassy's despatch No. 55, of Maroh 7,
1950, there was enolosed a report entitled "The Japanese
Press," in which the statement was made that "ouriously
enough, there has never been a real fight for the free-
dom

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
dom of the press in Japan, despite the undoubted ability
of the press to make a strong stand if concerted action
were taken." A concerted action in defense of freedom of
the press seems to have eventually been made on December 15th,
when a resolution signed by representatives of all of the
influential newspapers and agencies of the capital impeach-
ing the government for injustice in its treatment of the
press was handed to Mr. T. Maruyama, Chief of the Metro-
politan Police. The events leading up to this extraordinary
move, together with the political importance of the
personalities involved in the case, make a significant as
well as extremely diverting affair out of what might be
considered at first glance a very ordinary case of bullying
by the police.
On December 7th, the metropolitan police took into
custody and detained for four days a reporter of the name
of Hosokoshi on the staff of the powerful Jiji Shimpo. He
was charged with "spreading unfounded rumors" regarding the
condition of the wounded premier. Had the officers rested
with examining the reporter on this matter alone the case
would probably have attracted little attention. But the
police revealed the real object of their inquisition when
they proceeded to interrogate him in regard to his knowledge
of the politioal situation and to make partioular efforts to
prooure information on the Minister of War's political
ambitions, his recent political moves, and as to whether
General Ugaki entertained the hope of capturing the
presidenay of the Minseito. Aaoustomed to a free hand in
maintaining order in the capital, they failed to foresee
the consequence of such olumsy interference in political
affairs of a man of influence in the government. General
Ugaki, upon hearing of this attempt to spy on his affairs,
1s

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
is reported to have flown into a towering rage and used
uncompromising language in condemning the tactios of the
police, naming in particular the chief of the Metropolitan
Police, Mr. Maruyama, and to have demanded an explanation of
81400/305-306
the matter.
A glance at the political situation, as described in
my despatches Nos. 68 and 86, is needed fully to understand
the significance of this affair. Since the injury to the
Premier the question in the minds of all interested has
been, Who is to assume the leadership of the Minseito, the
government party, in the coming session of the Diet?
Among
the three foremost candidates have been Mr. Adachi, Home
Minister, to whom the police are accountable, and General
Ugaki, Minister for War. By this inquisition the Home
Minister is placed in the situation of using his office as
police administrator to spy on the rival camp and to further
his own political fortunes. This bit of politioal chicancery
might have passed with only a minor flurry on the political
pond exoept for the antagonism whioh the police have aroused
on the part of the press during the past year by unparalleled
interference with the press. When this heaven-sent
opportunity presented itself, with one acoord the metro-
politan press raised a tremendous outcry against police in-
tolerance, citing the pre-election promises of the Premier
and other government leaders to refrain from interference
with the press, quoting statistics to show the great inorease
in news suppressions and prohibitions of sale of periodicals
during the past ten months, and devoting whole columns with
bold type to condemning the suppressive measures of the
police. It is a remarkable fact that during the regime of
the present government, which is in many ways far more
enlightened than the preceding government, there has been an
anachronistio

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
anachronistio inorease in suppressive measures directed
against freedom of the press.
The text of the resolution, above mentioned, signed
by representatives of the embattled press, which was
handed to the Chief of Police, reads as follows:
"The attitude of the government toward publio
utterances and disoussion has become increasingly
outrageous. The frequent unreasonable suppression
of news and the prohibition of the sale of news-
papers is unjustified. In particular, the recent
unwarranted detention of a Jiji Shimpo reporter on
the pretext that he caused the spreading of false
rumors is outrageous to the conscience of newspaper
men. Moreover, there is reason to believe the
polioe authorities, who should be strictly fair in
suoh matters, examined and jailed the reporter in
suoh a manner as to indicate that they were motivated
by secret factions within the government. Such
action reveals the existence of a spy system of
government, vetraying a lack of justice in a govern-
ment which prides itself in the fact that it is a just
government. Such crafty measures have brought a reign
of terror to those who uphold the rights of public
speech. The present matter concerns but one news-
paperman, but the government's attitude is a challenge
to all newspapers, threatening the liberty of free
speech. We cannot consider this as merely a lack of
common-sense on the part of the police officers, but
feel it is a well planned method of the government to
violate the spirit of the freedom of publio utteranoe.
"We hereby impeach the government for its in-
justioe.
"December 15, 1930."
Certainly these strong words baoked by the foroe of
the signatures of praotically all of the newspapers of
consequence of Tokyo constitute a real blow for the free-
dom of the Japanese press. And in this fight the press
is fortunate in having as its unwitting ally the powerful
Minister of War, who has declared that this "political
polioing resembles conditions in Russia during the worst
period of Tzarist misrule." Furthermore, the press has
gained an ally from an unexpected quarter, the Privy
Council, with which, as the stronghold of bureaucracy,
the press has never been on good terme. At the regular
moeting

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
meeting of the Counoil on the fifteenth, the majority
went on record as sympathetic with the protest of the
press, an attitude which is probably attributable to
the smarting defeat which the Council sustained at the
hands of the Cabinet over the Naval Treaty during the
past summer.
The force of this protest, with its possible con-
sequenoes, was too great to be dismissed without action
on the part of the Cabinet. The present cabinet owes
much of its sucoess in the past election to the support
of the press and to the opposition of the press to the
Seiyukai, the rival party. A sustained attitude of
hostility on the part of the press would seriously in-
jure the prestige of the present government. Alarmed
by the alienation of newspaper support, and by the fear
that the whole nation would be prejudiced against the
administration, the Cabinet met on December l6th to dis-
cuss means for solving the situation. No reliable ao-
count of the proceedings of the Cabinet at this meeting
are available, but it is reported that the Cabinet dis-
cussed the advisability of issuing a statement of some
kind pledging its support to the freedom of the press,
and that the resignation of the Chief of Police, Mr.
Maruyama, was demanded by certain members. As a denoue-
ment to the inoident, Home Minister Adaohi, bowing to
the force of the attack, handed a written apology and
explanation on behalf of the government, to representa-
tives of the newspapers on the eighteenth, in which re-
gret was expresmed for the inoident and promises of
respeot, in the future, for the freedom of the press, as
well as punishment of those of his subordinates "responsible"
for

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
for the arrest of the Jiji reporter, were made.
The ciroumstances which brought about this affair
are entirely political. Mr. Maruyama is one of the
Home Minister's chief henchmen and is among the leaders
of the faction which is seeking to install Mr. Adachi as
leader of the Minseito in the event that the Prime Minister
withdraws from political life. According to the papers,
this faction has been greatly disturbed by the strength of
the movement favoring General Ugaki for the presidenoy of
the Minseito and began searching for information which
would eliminate him. General Ugaki was an intimate friend
of the late Baron Tanaka, and there had been rumors to the
effect that when Baron Tanaka was president of the Seiyukai
and Prime Minister, General Ugaki had supplied him with
confidential information regarding the Minseito, which
General Ugaki had received by reason of his past associations
with the Minseito. With the purpose of ascertaining the
truth of these rumors, Mr. Maruyama, it is charged, caused
the reporter of the Jiji to be arrested on the acousation
of having disseminated a false report of the condition of
the Prime Minister, and had him minutely cross-examined
with regard to his knowledge of the relations between
General Ugaki and Baron Tanaka.
No serious person supposes that Mr. Adachi was privy
to this conspiraoy. Nevertheless, this abuse of his power
on the part of one of his official subordinates (the Chief
of the Metropolitan Bureau is under the jurisdiotion of the
Home Minister) and the ill-advised enthusiasm of his
political followers have done no little harm to Mr. Adachi.
His chances of leading the government in the Diet during
the absence of the Prime Minister had been greater than
those of any of his rivals; and it is believed that the
dooision

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
decision made by Baron Shidehara during the last few days
to retain the duties of prime minister ad interim is not
without relation to this affair.
Respectfully yours,
W. Cameron Forbes.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.918/
SEE
793.94/4380
FOR
Tel. 77 3pm
5
Japen
Forbes
Feb. 24, 1932
FROM
--) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDiNG: strict censorship over press end press correspondents.
1s

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated February 14, 1932
Rec'd 9:55 a.m.
Secretary ofState,
Washin,ton
76, 1coruary 24, 8 p.m.
Rumors are current about inpending change in the
Governmer: and from important sources it is evident
they feel that the situation is extiemely grave. We
have no indication yet regarding the complexion of
these rumored changes but in view of the sweeping
election victory of the Government party an immediate
change would be very significant, financial difficul-
ties being indicated as the dominant factor. Talk is
out for a coalition Cabinet not more subject to military
influence than the present one.
The War Office has announced that two more divisions
are to go to Shanghai and intimates the possibility of
a third.
Major Bratton has been granted two weeks leave from
the

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
2-#76 from Tokyo, February 24,
MET
9:55 a.m.
the War College here and Lieutenant Dusenbury is being
transferred to a new division. The explanation iven is
that the War College is busy plannine the Shanghai opera-
tions and Dusenbury's regiment is likely to be ordered
to China.
Thor is e strict censorship over the press and press
coricspordents so that reliable news is hard to get from
Japan,
FORBE
KLP
HPD

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.918/6
SEE 893.01-Manchuria/280
Te1.#164 6pm
FOR
Japan
Grew
June 22, 1932
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
press bans on movements of Japanese troops
to Manchuria.
1s

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
div1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 3, 1932.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 48, of July 9,
1932, encloses a list of press bans
imposed on all newspapers, Japanese and
foreign, published in Tokyo since
September 18, 1931. The covering despatch
whioh summarizes these bans, olassifying
them under the headings, Troop Movements,
Naval Movements, Manohurian Affair, and
Sooial Problems, should be read.
JSA
LES:CLS

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
AM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
2
IE
Tokyo, July 9, 1932.
COPIES SENT TO
1.0. 40
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
F/DEW
THLUNDER SECRETARY
8 1932
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
894.
894.918/7
Division of
AUG E-1932
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 2-1932
Department of State
The .onorable
The secretary or state,
FILED
Mashin ton.
Sir:
Enclosed herewith are lists of ress bans iposed on
all newspapers, Japanese and foreign, published in Tokyo,
as issued by the Hetropolitan Tolice Soard durin the
period fron Septe.ber 18, 1931, to the end of June, 1932.
The information used in compiling the lists was obtained
through the courtesy of a local newspaper and should be
treated as confidential, because a newspaper in Japan can
be fined for disclosing the subject of a press ban as well
as for publishing anything on the subject which is banned.
For

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
For the purpose of easy reference, the various press
bans have been classified as follows:
1 - On Troop Ilovements.
2 - On Naval ovements.
5 - On the . anchurian Affair.
4 - On Social iroblens and Jivil Disturbances.
The press bais on troo movements issued before April,
1932, consist of the usual war-tine censorship measures and
need no comment. Those issued on and after April 11, 1932,
however, are interesting in that they indicate measures
which are now being taken and which have not been revealed
to the public. From the press bans issued on April 1l,
1932, June 3, 1932, and June 11, 1932, it is apparent
that the Japanese defences on the northern border of
Japanese Saghalien and on the Korean borders are being
strengthened. From those issued on ay 24, 1932, June 3,
1932, and June 6, 1932, the implication is that new troops
are being sent to Manchuria for the purpose of reorganizing
or reinforcing the army already in Kwantung.
There is nothing notable in the press bans on naval
movements.
In the press bans on matters relating to the Lanchurian
affair, the most notable feature is the evident effort to
keep from the Japanese people all knowleage of the part
played by the Japanese army and other government officials
in the establishment and control of the new Manchurian
government.
This effort appears in the bans issued on
September 26, 1931, November 13, 1931, February 19, 1932,
and March 13, 1932 (3).
The effort was apparently made
for the purpose of convincing the Japanese people, as far
as might be possible, that the establishment of the
Manchukuo government was the spontaneous act cf the
Chinese

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
Chinese and other residents of Manchuria, and thus to pre-
vent any adverse reaction on the part of the more liberal
elements among the Japanese people to the actions of the
Japanese army and officials in Manchuria.
Another notable
feature is the effort being ade to suppress news of the
arrangements for control of the conunications and financial
organs of anchuria (bans iosued on l.ovember 13, 1931, Decem-
ber 9, 1931, December 23, 1931, March 13, 1932, and May 25,
1932).
A third feature indicated by the press bans is the
intention to establish a permanent Japanese army in Manchuria,
the cost thereof to be borne by the Manchurian government
(bans 1ssued on March 13, 1932, ay 27, 1932, and May 30,
1932).
The press bans on social problems and civil disturbances
reveal little except the care exercised by the authorities
to prevent the growth, which might be caused by the publica-
tion of details, of civil disturbances. These press bans,
however, have little effect, as the news of disturbances,
such as those of May 15th, is quickly passed around, at least
in the cities, by word of mouth.
The news of certain minor
affairs, however, such as those covered by the bans of Janu-
ary 8, 1932, January 20, 1932, May 25, 1932, and June 2,
1932, has apparently been effectively suppressed or confined
to the neighborhoods where the incidents ocourred.
The principal objeot of the press censorship is to pre-
vent news whioh the authorities consider to be detrimental
to the public interest from being published within Japan.
I am informed by a foreign newspaper correspondent in Tokyo
that many of the bans do not apply to newspaper despatches
sent abroad.
Respeotrully yours,
Jg. Fw
ists of Press Bans.
Joseph C. Grew
Received ....

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
PRESS BANS
On Troop Movements -
Sept. 22, 1931. On plans and designs of army move-
ments in the future, such bein secret items of the
army. All infor ation regaruin the mobilization of
the army, includine the number of troops, date of de-
parture and date of issuance of orders.' Details of
the arrangement of army troops, such as infantry,
battalions, descriptions of the soldiers and arms.
Nov. 15, 1931. Regarding the movements of the troops
of the i9th and 20th divisions, except such announce-
ments as may be ade by the War Department. (Lifted
on December 27th, except for the general ban of Septem-
ber 22nd.)
Dec. 18, 1931. On all articles regaruing the army
movements, including (1) kinds of troops, such as in-
fantry, cavalry, artiilery, etc., (2) strength of
troops, such as mixed brigades and battalions, and (3)
titles of troops, such as irst Division, First Infantry
Regiment.
Jan. 11, 1932. On any reference to the seizure by the
Chinese troops at Chinhsi of the regimental colors of the
Koga cavalry.(Lifted Jan. 12, 1932).
Feb. 2, 1932. On the despatch of Japanese troops in the
direction of Shanghai or movements in Japan Proper. Any
1tems referring to the despatch of troops to China or any
suggestive news of the same category, but not including
announcements made by the War Department. Any items re-
garding the transportation of munitions, farewell meetings
of army officers and soldiers, or movements of transport
vessels, connected with the despatch of Japanese troops
to China.(Partially lifted Feb. 7, 1932.)
Feb. 4, 1932. On the distribution, sale or exhibition of
pictures of scenes of the despatch of Japanese troops or
of troop movements, or written notes descriptive thereof.
(Lifted Feb. 7, 1932, in regard to troops despatched to
Shanghai.)
Feb. 23, 1932. On items regarding the despatch of rein-
forcements to Shanghai or movements of reinforcements in
Japan Proper. Applies also to piotures and stories sug-
gesting such movements. (Lifted Maroh 3, 1932, regarding
troops landed in Shanghai up to March 5, but still pro-
hibits information regarding landing, dates and time and
nemes of subdivisions, or pictures thereof. Entirely
lifted March 14, exoept as to strategic measures of the
Japanese

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Japanese arny in China Proper. All bans lifted ar. 14,
regarding troops being evacuated fro. China Proper.)
Feb. 26, 1932. On the departure or General Shirakawa, a
Lilitary Councillor, Vo will leave Tokyo for a certain
place today. Also on t e  ovemente oi the troops fron
the Tohoku dietriet, punsin t ron Pokgo today.
Feb. 27, 19os. tn the ter or jor u u, re ortou
miesin, wntil amoumce et 
be ar y aut orities.
Har. 1, 19S2. On the collision of a truns ort outside
Moji on 1ar. 1, 1952.
Mar. 29, 1932. On the suicide of . ajor Kuga at Jhanghai,
except such state.ents as may be issued by the War Cffice.
April 11, 1952. on the establishiment of a telephono
system on the northern border of Saghalien or any details
regarding defence measures vhich may be taken by the
Government authorities of sachalion.
Llay 24, 1932. Cn future rojects or plans in conncction
with strate ical novements of the Ja anese army in  an-
churia or on news movenents of the Jo  ander of the
Kwantung army since his arrival in Marbin and on his
movements on his way buck to Mukden.(This last ban
lifted as re ards ceneral Honjo on ay 28, 1932.)
June 3, 1952. On the despatch of a new army to  anchuria
in connection with the reorganization of the Kwantung army
and on stories sugcesting such measures, until released
by the War Department.On the reinforcement of the
Japanese army garrison on the boundary at the Yalu River
with a part of the troops in Heijo and Ryuzan, except as
released by the War Department.
June 6, 1932. On stories regarding the despatch of a
new army to Lanchuria to equip the Kvantung army, on
stories suggesting such measures, and on photographs of
such movements.
June 11, 1952. On movements of the army for the rein-
foroement of the garrison on the Korean boundary, except
as released by the War Department.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.94)
一3-
On Naval Movements -
Jan. 26, 1932. on al1 reports of novements of varships
and of the marine corps despatched to shanghai, until
after they arrive at taeir dostination.
Thrch 20, 1952. Cn the inereused vork at the navul
arsenals and private corpmies in connection with the
recent incidents and on  e nature of the vork.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
On the anchurian Affair -
Sept. 26, 1931. Cn the plan of establishin an inde-
pendent covern.ent in anchuria and ongolia.(
(Lifted
the follovine day, except in regurd to any comection,
direct or indireet, of the Jepanese Govermment and the
Japanese arny with the indepenaence movenent.)
Nov. 1s, 19ul. Cn any stories sugeestive of or regard-
ing the departure or the Chinese o peror from
Tientsin, stating that the Ja anese Covernment or army
are connected therewith directly or indirectly.
Nov. 13, 1931. On the news, which it is feared may be
used for international propaganda, that the South Man-
churia Railway is making preparations with the new
Manchurian govern ent for the construction of new rail-
roads of the extension of its existing lines.
Dec. 9, 193l. On publication of the report that rail-
ways such as the Ssupingkai-Taonan and Taonan-Angangchi
lines will be placed under the trust wanagement of the
South Manchuria Railway upon the establishment of the
Heilungkiang government.
Dec. 25, 1931. On civilian aviation enterprises with
the re orts of army aerial connections in Lanchuria and
between Manchuria and Korea.
Jan. 15, 1932. On the conference of inquiry scheduled
to be held in the near future in connection with the
legislative system and economic policy of Lanchuria.
Feb. 19, 1932. On the names of the Japanese officials
in charge of the new regime in Manchuria. (Lifted on
April 22, 1932, in so far as announcements made by the
central government of the lanchurian state are concerned.)
Mar. 13, 1932. (1) On important matters connected with
the communications policy of the Manchurian State (for
instance railways, motor car routes and air routes).
(2) On matters connected with the tariff system of
Manchuria. (3) On matters connected with the national
defence of Manohuria (for instance, such as that the de-
fence corps is to be reorganized and taken care of by
the Japanese military authorities).
April 1, 1932. On the restoration of the Postal Adminis-
tration in the new Manchurian Government. (Lifted on
Apr1l 4, 1932.)
April 6, 1932. On the plan of the Manchurian Government
to objeot to the entry of Dr. Wellington Koo into the new
Manchurian state with the League Commission of inquiry.
(Lirted April 10,1932.)

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
Apri1 8, 1932.
On the movements of a Chan-Shan after
April 1, 1932.
(Lifteu April 22, 1932, in so far as an-
nouncements made by the Manchurian state are concerned.)
May 3, 1932. On the arrest of a German newspaper man
at Kuanchentzu on the nignt of ay 2nd by the police of
the Manchurian overmlent.
(Lifted on May 5, 1952.)
Liay 2u, los2. un all matters relatiny to the central
bank of Hanchukuo, mtil an orficial state...ent is issued
by the .anchukuo govermment.
May 27, 1932. On the report re arding the financing of
the Japanese army garrisoned in Hanchuria by the Manchukuo
government.
Iay 30, 1932. Cn all matters, including rumors, con-
cerning the Japanese army to be regularly garrisoned in
Manchuria' in the future, unless released by the War and
Navy Departments.
June 8, 1932. On all stories concernin negotiations
between the Ianchukuo government and the Japanese or
other foreign covernments or foreign capitalists for
loans or investments in anchuria.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
On Social Problems and Civil Disturbances -
Oct. 17, 1931. On the movement of the young army
officers who are now being arrested by the cendarmes,
except as released by the War De artment. ven such
references as "A certuin iportant affair" will not
be permitted.
Jan. 8, 1932. On the violation of the reace  eserva-
tion Law by Kaneji Yoshida and twelve others in Niigata
Prefecture.
Jan. 8, 1932. On all reports connected with the case
of lèse majesté which occurred in front of the Ietro-
politan Police Board on January 8th. No reference to
an attack on the Emperor is permitted, nor any sugges-
tion of the incident. Such phrases as "an extraordinary
meeting of the Cabinet", "a certain grave incident"
"the impending resignation of the Cabinet" and "visits
to the Imperial Palace to pay respects to the Emperor"
may not be printed.
April 29, 1932. On the motives and career of the man
who threw bombs at the Japanese officials in Shanghai
today, as well as any reference to any organization
believed to have supported the bomb-thrower. (Lifted
on Ilay 6, 1932, in so far as announcements made by the
authorities are concerned.)
May 15, 1932. On the disturbances which occurred at the
Metropolitan Police Board and other places on Iiay 15th.
(Lifted same day) On publication of the manifesto dis-
tributed by the crininals responsible for the May 15th
disturbances.
May 16, 1932. On the following matters connected with
the attack on Premier Inukai and other disturbances:
1 - Names, characters and position of the criminala.
2 - Matters affecting the integrity of the army and
navy, or charging that the incidents were con-
neoted with the military organizations.
3 - The causes of the incidents and predictions of
the recurrence of incidents similar to those
of May 15th.
May 20, 1932. On the reports that young army officers
and reservist soldiers came to Tokyo from the rural dis-
triots for certain purposes conneoted with the formation
of the new Cabinet after the disturbanoes of May 15th.
May 25, 1932. On the arrest of a Korean maloontent by
the Kwantung government recently.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
一7-
June 2, 1932. On the publication of the statement
distributed by members of the Blood Brotherhood League,
composed of young military officers, stigmatizing Ir.
Takio Izawa, a member of the louse of Peers.
June 6, 19s2. Cn any story conuucive to  ublic un-
easiness, inciting the people to appeal to illegal
measures, or excitiny then by the exa eration of facts
in reporting the present depressed aricultural con-
ditions.
June 21, 1932. On reports of the conditions of
various banks in Yamagata IPrefecture which may be dis-
turbing to the public and detrimental to the credit
of organs for the circulations of money.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
7E
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
F/HS
MET
Tokio
This telegram mus t be
closely paraphrased be-
Dated August 25, 1932
fore being communicated
to anyone.
Rec'd 6:08 a. m.
894.918/8
Secretary of State,
Division of
20 182
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Was hington.
AUG 25 1932
Department of State
219, August 25, 5 p. m.
894.918
The following significant press tans are at present in
effect in Japan.
One. Wothing to be putlished rogarding Jehol or any
trop movements in connection therewith (of course except-
ing official announcoments if any).
Two. Nothing regarding despatch of destroyers to
Saghalien.
Three. Nothing regarding the negotiation of a treaty
38019 880
wi th "Manchukuo".
It is now generally expocted that the treaty will be
completed and passed by the Privy Council about September
20 and that recognition will be extended to "Manchukuo"
shortly thereafter.
Repeaed to Peiping.
WWC-RR
GREW

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.918
SEE
711.94/732
FOR
Letter
FROM
Japan
(Grew
) DATED Sep.10.1932.
6
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING:
Press campaign concucted in Japan against the
U. S. eppears to be stimulated from headquarters
and practically nothing that is favorable to the
U. S. is allowed to aprear.
hs

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
Fi
1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JJ
TOKIO
This mossage must be
Dated February 12, 1933
closely paraphrased be- FROM
fore being communicated
Recd. 6.12 a.m.
to anyone. (a)
 ze
Se retary of State
Washington
3714.918
39. February 12, 4 .
g
793.9
CONFIDENTIAL.
An offic lal press ba as recent y been issued
894.918/10
a ainst p blishing anythin: w t). rerrd to (gray)
"warships, irplanes or un't strength (for instance,
nane of warshi s, number or rind  f airplanes) which
are expected to be despatchoa to China or Manchukuo
shortly frem Japan. Movenents of there warships or
airplanes must not be mentioned. Any news which can
be conjectured of such nature is also banned. However,
reports announced by the Navy office in this connect on
may be published." (End Gray).
Also banned are, one, all mention of details of
airplanes be ng built by the army and the navy by way
FEB
of experiment; two, anything relating to the plan of
FILED
231933
operations in Manchuria, especially in Jehol Province;
three, news relating to the arrest of emissaries of
G:neral Li, commander of the (hinese volunteers, in
Penchihu.
To Peiping by mail..
GREW
KLP

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERFAIDS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRSFEB 131933
OF
4
February 18,1933.
39teh 12, 4p
SKH:
89495110
F/H
The telegram from Tokyo reporting the issuance of
894.718
a censorship on the publication of reports desoribing
S
military and naval movements, but omitting any comment,
is not of muoh use. The censorship may mean a great
894.
deal or it may mean nothing.
According to Article 27 of the Press Law, the
Minister of War or the Minister of Marine may "prohibit
8
or restriot the publication in newspapers of matters
concerning the Army or Navy". This provision of the
Press Law has been consistently invoked during the Sino-
894.95/7
Japanese confliot. The Embassy's despatch No. 48, July
9, 1932 (copy attached), reports that, since September
22, 1931, seventeen press censorships were issued on
reports relating to troop movements and two on reports
relating to naval movements. Some of these were "blanket"
censorships, that of December 18, 1931, for example,
covering
"all artioles regarding the army movements, in-
oluding (1) kinds of troops, such as infantry,
cavalry, artillery, eto., (2) strength of troops,
such as mixed brigades and battalions, and (3)
titles of troops, suoh as First Division, First
Infantry Regiment."
FILA
One

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
With the issuance of the new orders, the legal
authority necessary for the control over the publica-
tion of all kinds of military and naval information
has apparently been perfected. The prinoipal significance
of the telegram seems to be that so far as the press is
concerned Japan is on a war basis.
In view of the fact that the Embassy has on previous
occasions reported by telegram the issuance of censorship
orders immediately before fresh military operations, I
think there is enough to warrant the assumption that the
Embassy believes that new military and naval movements
are about to take place. It would be reasonable to
suppose from the terms of the censorship order that they
will be of unusual dimensions.
Some indioation of the Embassy's opinion would have
added greatly to the value of the telegram.
21Y
FE:EHD:CLS

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
SEE ....
793.94/6037
FOR..Tel.#.61,.9 pm
918
FROM .... Japan
(....Grew.
.) DATEDMarch.14,.1933.
TO
NAME
2
REGARDING:
Press ban dated March 9th prohibits publication
of reports regarding "warships, airplanes or
unit strength which are expected to be despatched
to China or Manchukuo shortly from Japan".
2
hs

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
MET
Tokic
A porti.n (f this telegram
munt be clo"ely para 1rased Da ed Harcr 14, 1os?
hefore being cemmunicated
t: anyone. (a)
kec'a 9:52 a. m.
Secretary f State,
Washingtn.
61, Marc 14, 9 . m.
(GRAY) Ry forring tc my elegram Nc. 59, March 13,
8 . m., a prese ban dated March eth prohibits ubli-
cati n of  e orts re ard  "uershi s, nirplanes or
unit strength whic: are exi ec ad to be despatched to
China or Lanclnduo shortly ium Japan". (  GRAY)
894.918
Sirilar press bans have ureceded active military
ouerati ns in the past.
6
WWC-WCB
GREW
0
3

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.918/
893.01-Manchuria/964
FOR Tel.#168, 2 pm
SEE
3
FROM
Japan
Grew
)DATED ...0ct.27,1933
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING: Current hegotiations between the Government of "Manchukuo"
and the Administration of North China.
Reporting issue of press ban forbidding comment on -.
esp

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
7
JS
This telogram must be
TOKYO
closely paraphrased be-
foro boing comnunicatod
Datod October 27, 1935
to anyono (B)
Roc1d 3:57 a.m.
893.01 Manch
Secrotary of State,
Washington, D.C.
168, October 27, 2 p.m.
CONFIDENTIAL
A press ban has boon issued hore forbidding cormaent
on the "curront negotiations betwoon the Covornaont of
hote
Manchulcuo and the adainistration of M rth China."
The Eabassy has no furthor information concorning
894.918
the mattor.
964
Repoated to Peiping.
GREW
JS

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
794.00/60
Tel.18-1pm.
SEE
FOR
FROM
Ja:an
Grew
) DATED
Jan.25,1934.
1//*A/
NAME
4
REGARDING: Inflammatory beoks and articles:Prohibition against
publication of -.A meeting was helu at Foreign Office
on January 23, of re resentatives of War, Navy and Home
Ministries,to find ways of prohibiting retired Army
and Navy officers and others from publishing books
and articles presaging war, and endangering inter-
national relations. Has been infomed by Foreign
Office that publication of such a book now on
the press will be prevented.
frg

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
78
209
WP
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated January 25, 1934
Roc'd 12:16 a. m.
Secrctary of Stato,
Washington.
794.00
18, January 25, 1 p. m.
A mecting was hold at thc Forcign Offico on January
23 of reprosontatives tho War, Navy and Home Ministrios in
order to find moans of prohibiting rctired Army and Navy
9
officors and othcrs from publishing inflammatory books and
0
articlos prosaging wur cnd othcrwisc ondangoring rolations
with forcign countrics. I un informed by tho Foreign
Offico that the publication of such a book now on the
press will bo prevontcd.
GREW
JS

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
March 2, 1974.
F
1
Dear Dr. Hornbeck,
0
n0l Statf
Herewith I um sending you
an En ish translation of a telecram
894.918/1
recently received from 'r. Mirota. I
talked about the matter to the Presi-
dent at luncheon yesterday, and I
thourht he wes very much interested
in it.
5
Be lieve me
Yours very sincerely,
Herosi hid
(Encl.)
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.c.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japanese Ambassador is advised
by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Tokyo
that a decision has heen reached by the Japanese
Government that those puhlications as hereinafter
mentioned should be considered as harmful and
worse than useless in Japan's relations with
foreign Powers and should he suppressed: -
1. Publications that relate to matters
which would give an intimation of the
military tactics and strategies of Japan
in her possible foreign wars, whether it
be merely an expression of personal opinion
or an imaginary fiction.
2.
Publications that tend gratuitously to
excite feelings of other countries and
bring about a situation that may lead to war;
e.g. by stressing upon the necessity or in-
evitability of war with any particular coun-
try, whether the name of such country is
clearly mentioned or only implied.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 14, 1934.
MMEEL:
SKH:
I think you will be interested
to read through Tokyo's despatch
No. 684 of February 21, 1934, report-
ing on the growing realization in
Japan of the effect on international
relations of inflammatory publications.
Count Futaara was in Washington
11
last autumn at the same time Count
Soyeshima was here. He later went to
Europe and apparently picked up some
fairly good ideas in the course of his
travels.
Your particular attention is
drawn to the statement issued by the
Foreign Office (page 4) with regard to
the policy which would be followed in
regulating the publication of writings
touching on international relations.
EAD:EJL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 21, 1934.
No. 684.
SUBJECT:
InflemmatoryPublications.
F/ESP
8941775
STATE
FAR EASTCNRS
R 13 1934
16 1934
NOTED
894.918/1
2
(Gra.1
PF
9
EA 
ERY
Honorable
COP SENT TO
OT S
O.NI.NDM.I.D.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
The Department will recall that I have on several
FILED
occasions reported the prevalence of inflammatory and
war-inspiring publications in Japan in recent months,
3
and have discussed the serious effects which such publi-
cations have on relations with America, as well as my
own efforts to point out these effects to Japanese leaders.
From the proceedings of the present Diet session, it
appears that responsible opinion in Japan has at last be-
come aware of the danger of these unrestrained writings.
A remarkable number of speakers have discussed this subject
- remarkable not only in contrast to the usual indiffereme
in regard

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
in regard to such matters, but particularly when at the
same time strong opposition is being voiced against un-
just limitations on freedom of speech.
On Jenuary 24th, immediately after the reconvention
of the Diet, Count Futaara began the campain against in-
flammatory publications.
It may be of some significance
that Count Futaara is su posed to be a personal friend of
the Emperor and accompanied him on the tour of Europe in
1921. Count Futaare stated:
"It is a matter of congratulation that the so-
called Japanese spirit has revived among our country-
men since the Manchurian incident. There is, however,
a defect in the method of propagation of this spirit.
Various magazines have recently been publishing imagi-
native war stories and other provocative articles which
are not based on Bushido principles but designed simply
to please vulgar demand. Such stories and articles
will only serve to stir up feelings abroad among nations
with which Japan is on terms of friendly intercourse.
The consequence will be that Japan will be misunder-
stood by other countries and that the Japanese spirit
will be injured at the same time. .......Various maga-
zines and newspapers today are placing too much em-
phasis on articles which stir up our countrymen to
take the initiative and challenge other nations to
fight. It is hardly necessary to point out that such
articles are a serious obstacle to the diplomatic ne-
gotiations of our government."
General Senjuro Hayashi, Minister of War, replying to
Count Futaara's interpellation stated:
"I am aware that many publications of today
contain articles and stories of inflammable charac-
ter. The appropriate authorities will take proper
measures against such publications as tend to impair
Japan's relations with other countries."
On February 2nd Mr. Jinjiro Mizuno, a member of the
House of Peers, also discussed this subject stating:
"Since the Democratic Administration came to
power the Stimson policy has gradually been dis-
carded and the situation hes become favorable to
Japan. Nevertheless due to negligence of our
diplomatic authorities and the indiscretion of
publishers who publish books and pamphlets of a
challenging nature designed to stir up warlike
sentiments, the United States and Russia have
come to look upon this country as a warlike nation.
These

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
These two countries have suddenly resumed relation-
ship and have both decided on armament expansion to
provide against Japan........I wonder why the Forei gn
Office authorities do not control such publications
and utterances? One of these publications is call ed
"Nichibei Senso Miraiki" (Coming War between Japan
and America - seized at Honolulu by Customs authori-
ties)......What is the merit of such publications?
They only serve to inflame Japanese o inion and on
the other hand to excite the merican people. ......
Such publications which serve to impress foreign
nations with the idea that Japan is a warlike nation
......do untold harm to foreign relations."
Again ir. Kenkichi Yoshizawa, Minister for Foreign
Affairs in 1932, stated in the House of Peers on January
3lst in the course of a speech on foreign relations:
"In Japan, publications bearing such titles
as 'The Future Russo-Japanese War' are for sale
and are increasing in number. From the viewpo int
of foreign relations I greatly regret the publica-
tions of such articles."
Other statements bearing on inflanmatory publica-
tions have been made in the Diet more recently, but
those quoted above are in general representative of the
attitude expressed. The need of some restraint is
obvious. In a small book-store inspected recently by
a member of my staff, there were an astonishing number
of books, pamphlets and articles of the type discussed
above. I am told that these publications have been
enjoying an enormous sale at a time when sales of other
publications have tended to fall off.
There is little doubt that many of these publica-
tions have been inspired directly or indirectly by the
military to serve their own purposes. But even the
military seem to feel that the purpose has been over-
reached, and at the moment, possibly because their
military budgets have been assured, seem inclined to
take action against further war propaganda.
AS 旦

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
As a direct result, it appears, of these complaints
in the Diet, the Foreign Office has announced that stricter
control of publications wculd ue exercised, with especial
attention to writings  ouehing on i mginary wars. Accord-
ing to i o ser o, mol meetings wit ublishers and
officials of sne Toreign, War, avy and Justice Hinistries
are to be held for that purpose.
The statement, as
quoted in part is as follows:
"While the publishers are expected to use due
care on the one hand, censorship of publications
of an instigating nature will be exercised more
strictly than hithertofore.
These measures, we
hope, will prevent circulation of literature in-
jurious to foreign relations or military interests.
The purpose will be to forbid publication of matter
suggesting tactics or technic in a war vith a foreign
country, or matters liable to stimulate the senti-
ment of foreign nations or to instigate war."
Respcctfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
X
cctH-M
800
WTT:1

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 25, 1934.
H: me. Phelif,
MMH：
SKH:
S: n SeC
Tokyo's No. 955 of September 6, 1934:
I suggest that you read in full this
very interesting despatch, with enclosures,
which transmits the views of several
American correspondents in Japan on the
subject of the control of news by the Japa-
nese Government.
CONFIDENTIAL.
You may be interested in the
following "background" information regard-
ing the JAPAN ADVERTISER:
When the JAPAN ADVERTISER's build-
ing and equipment were destroyed in the
earthquake and fire of 1923, Lamont, John D.
Rockefeller, Jr., and Charles R. Crane,
advanced to the owner and publisher of the
paper, B. W. Fleisher, the father of a
correspondent of the HERALD TRIBUNE, a sum
of money sufficient to rebuild the plant,
which was hypothecated to the gentlemen
first named as a security for the loan.
This loan was made for the reason that it
has been and still is the publisher's
policy

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
policy to reflect in his newspaper the
attitude and policies of the United States.
It was the feeling of all the Americans
interested in the newspaper that someti ing
definitely beneficial to relations between
the United States and Japan could be
accomplished by a paper independent of any
official patronage,that would be informative
in its press columns and honest in its
editorial column.
The ADVERTISER plant was again
destroyed by fire in December, 1930. The
American group above-mentioned called in their
loan to Fleisher, and stated that it woulc be
impossible for them to continue their support
owing to the financial situation in the
United States. A group of Japanese with
American associations, consisting of Dr. Dan,
managing director of the Mitsui interests,
Mr. Inouye, Minister of Finance, and other
influential Japanese, offered Fieisher a
sufficient sum of money to rebuild his plant.
Fleisher declined the offer, for the reason
that he did not wish to be obligated
financially to the Japanese and in turn
obligated to support Japanese policies.
Fortunately, he was enabled by members of
his family in the United States to resume
publication.
I have

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
I have no doubt whatever that
Fleisher would refuse any such subsidy
which might be offerec by the Jananese
Government and that he would prefer to
close down rather than be dependent upon
Japanese bounty. In spite of various
lapses, Fleisher, Sr., has on the whole
done a very fine piece of work during the
past thirty years, and it would be most
regretable if the JAPAN ADVERTISER were
forced to the wall.
FE:HHD/DLY

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 6, 1934.
No. 955.
1934
Subject:
Control of News by Japanese Government.
DEPARTMENT OF STA:
894.918
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.918/17
RECEIVED
OFFICE OF IHE SECHCTARY
Department or State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AM RECO
ASGISTANT GRCASTARY
INFORMATION
QCT121934
JAN 29 1935
A-C/C
Depart ment of State
For Distr buron-Cheek
ir1l
For
In US A
MAY 6 193
FILED
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
washington.
sir:
I have the honor to report that I am informed, by
American press correspondents, that the Japanese Govern-
meat shows an inereasing disposition to interfere with
the dissemination of news and to prevent the publication
of information unfavorable to Japan.
I may state at this point that the opinions of the
correspondents in this respect do not agree. But it
seems worth while to submit to the Department the opinioms,

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
1/2
in the form of a memoranda appended hereto, of two well-
known correspondents in Tokyo.
Mr. Fleisher, editor of THE JAPAN ADVERTISER and
correspondent of the NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE, whose
views appear in the first memorandum, was once charaeter-
ized as a "quivering aspen" by my predecessor, Mr. Forbes.
He is, however, an able and responsible man, and his
observations in regard to the official attitude toward
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER are of interest.
This attitude,
if it actually exists is surprising, inasmuch as the
ADVERTISER has consistently followed a very cautious
and conservative policy.
Mr. Young is correspondent for the Hearst papers,
and as such is not regarded with the highest favor by
Japanese officialdom. For that reason he is more apt
to be more prejudiced than some of the other correspon-
dents.
Mr. Babb, representative of the Associated Press,
takes a view contrary in some respects to those expressed
in the appended memoranda. He says that in his experi-
ence the Government authorities are in the main reasonable
as regards press censorship, and that much more liberty
is allowed to correspondents in Japan than in Italy,
Germany or even Franee at present.
However, he agrees with the other correspondents
that the Government's effort to consolidate the two
Large news agencies, discussed in my despatoh No. 954
of September 5, 1934, is evidenee of a desire to exercise
a larger measure of control over news at home and abroad
in preparation for the much discussed "crisis of 1935-36».
I 二

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
I am inelined to speculate as to whether my own
representations to the Foreign Minister in the effort
to curb inflammatory articles about America have played
some part in the Government's inereasing tendency to
control the press. I think the Government is now well
aware of the danger of irresponsible journalism, and
it may be taking steps in the interests of foreign re-
lations which might affect at times the writings of
foreign as well as of Japanese correspondents.
Respectfully yours,
losth
Joseph €. Grew.
Enclosures:
1/2 Memoranda as
stated above.
891
WTT:1

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 955 of September 6, 1934
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM OF STATEMENT BY
MR.WILFRED FLEISHER.
Mr. Fleisher states that there are increasing
indications that the Japanese Government does not
view with equanimity the existence of the JAPAN
ADVERTISER as an independent and foreign owned paper.
It has been intimated to him in a number of ways that
he must be more "co-operative" if his paper is to con-
tinue to operate. Mr. Yoshida, former Ambassador to
Italy, recently asked Mr. Fleisher if it would not be
a good idea to combine his paper with the JAPAN TIMES,
a Japanese-owned English language paper. Mr. Fleisher
replied that the TIMES was an evening paper, whereas
the ADVERTISER was a morning paper; that both were needed
by the community. Mr. Yoshida then asked why the AD-
VERTISER did not endeavor to be more sympathetic toward
Japanese views.
Since then Mr. Fleisher has sensed other indications
pointing in the same direction. The South Manchuria
Railway Company and the Mitsui Company, both heavy
advertisers for many years, have indicated that they
may reduce their advertising space and that they could
not assure any extension of their present contracts.
As the ADVERTISER depends largely on advertising for its
revenue,

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
revenue, the withdrawal of this advertising would
be a serious blow.
Moreover, Mr. Amau, the Foreign Office spokesman,
has been increasingly critical of anything appearing in
the ADVERTISER, which he considers prejudiced against the
Japanese view. On two recent occasions he has taken Mr.
Fleisher to task for articles appearing in the ADVERTISER:-
The "Hindenburg" editorial and the account of the statement
by General Tanaka of the Meirinkai (see Embassy's despatch
No. 925 of August 10, 1934).
I asked Mr. Fleisher how it was that the Kobe
CHRONICLE, often bitterly critical of Japan, managed
to escape official wrath. Mr. Fleisher replied that
the CHRONICLE was remote from Tokyo's surveillance;
that its circulation and influence was limited, and that
it arrived in Tokyo too late to be used, as is the ADVERTISER,
by press correspondents as material for their despatches.
Mr. Fleisher stated that until recently he and the
other press correspondents have been little molested,
as compared with similar people in most European countries.
He believes, though, that the lid is being clamped down,
slowly but surely.
I may add that Mr. Fleisher has also told me that the
JAPAN ADVERTISER has been tentatively offered a subsidy by
the Japanese Government which it categorically refused.
The Fleishers would prefer to terminate the publication of
this paper rather than to sacrifice its independence.
W. T. Turner.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 955 of September 6, 1934
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM OF STATEMENT BY
MR. JAMES R. YOUNG.
In the past four or five months restrictions on
foreign news reporting have been definitely increasing.
These seem to have commenced about the time of the famous
"Amau statement". Mr. Young's Japanese sources have dried
up, and his former contacts are reticent, as the result
of reprimands from officials. He mentioned the story
of General Tanaka's statement, and one describing anti-
Soviet agitation in Japan, as instances in which he had
received reprimands from the Foreign Office. Such re-
primands were practically unheard of until recently.
Mr. Young says much of the material in the Japanese
press has its source in the Army. Such stories as that
of American machinations in China all originated in the
War Office. The latter, he states, is the most active
propaganda factory in Japan.
William T. Turner.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
SEE .....893.6363 Manchuria/57.
FOR Te1. #236, 6pm.
FROM Japan (Grew)
(-
) DATED Oct. 2C, 1934.
TO
NAME
1—1127
Press ban in Jupan, placed upon the publice ion of nev con-
REGARDING:
cerning the oil monopoly in Manehuriu.
FRG.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
BC
Spocial Gray
Tokio
Dated October 26,1934.
Roceived 10:15 A
erry of Stt
Washington.
236 Octob.r 26, 6 p.m.
One. Tn rerly to inquirius of the foreign e rrespon-
dents in rogavl te the propos d cil monopoly in Hanchuria
W
at the Foreign Office press conforence today Amau is
reliably roported to hive made approxiuatoly the folloving
W
staturents:
(a) Manchukuo is an independent country and
Manchi
representations should be made to Hsinking.
(b) If foreign countrics claim that Manchuria is
still a part of China, thoy should protost to Nanking.
(c) Japan dous not consider that Nine Power Treaty
applios to Manchuhto.
(a) Declarations made by Japan or Manchukuo in regard
to thc maintenance of the open door were unilateral
declarations, which do not have the binding force of
treatics and which can be withdrawn.
(c) The principle of the opon door moans only that
all foreign nations trading in China shall have cqual
rights

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
Page 2 from Tokio # 236.
rights and does not apply where thure is no discrimination
as aiong foreign nations. (When a foreign correspondent
asket kow Japae was coneid r a in thin e uns etion, no cloar
cut r r ly was forthe ming).
Two. A press ban has boen plaeed in Jepan upen
publication of news coneorning the oil monopoly in
Manehuria. It appuars prebabl thhat this step was taken
to cmnt ract th offuct in Japan f a publicity caipaign
abroad. The apt rne n Japanese nmewspup rs, hewever, have
published news  ap tchs fr Washington and London to
the effect that diplonatie representations have beon made
on the subjuct of the open drur and the Japanese petroloum
industry but they avoid roforring diructly to the Han-
churian oil monopoly.
Ropoated to Poiping.
GREW
WSB HPD

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
RECEIVED
JAN 23 1935
DIVISION OF
7
DCR
Repart No. 292
EC 31 1934
200/- Social Farces.
Japan.
206 - Press.
nf
Novembe
FARAAFFAIRS
INFORMATION
21 1934
JAN 2 21935
A
ghorship of Newspapers.
Department of State
That the press in Japan has long been under one
of the stristest censorships in the world is well known. The
four ministries that can apply censorahip - Foreign, war, Navy
and Home - havo always used this privilege whenever it was
necessary to suppress news, and not infrequently, when it
appeared to be entiroly unneceseary.
894.9
During the past year the consorship of naval news in
partioular hes been very strict. The only press items that
have been allowed to appear have been of such a general nature
as to be almost valueless to this offioe. In addition, because
of the censorahip as well as the interest that the Navy and
8
it's problems has for the publio at this time, the newspapers
have apparently felt it necessary to fabrieate news, particularly
In regards to Japanese naval polioy, the progress or the naval 6
conversations etc.
An amusing side of the pross censorship was that during the
sumer manouvers the Home Ofrice banned all news of Fleet
movements in the Tokyo papers in spite of the fact that the Nevy
Departmant said that it had no objeotion to the papers publishing
the news of the Meet's entry into the various ports. Also the
press ban on naval news was not applied as striotly to the
provinoial papars as to the Large Tokyo and Osaka dailies.
With much a strict censorahip in peace timo it can easily be
imagined what the censorship would be in time of war. Very little
military information that would be of any value to an onomy would
be published in any Japanese paper.
894.918
F/F
G
2
FILED
小心
5
CA

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 29, 1936.
Phillips.
You may wish to read
Mr. Grew's short despatch in
regard to cartoons of Chiefs
of State which appear in the
Japanese press.
894.918/20
T~
WTT/DLY

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 9, 1936.
No. 1626
SUBJECT:
FEB201226
894.918
7
C1
394.918/20
T
A
THE UNPIR LLRETARY
111
DEPARTMENT F
The Honorable
Lit.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FEE
FILED
S i r :
24 1936.
Reverting to the reaction of the Japanese press
to the cartoon of the Emperor of Japan published in
Vanity Fair last autumn and having also in mind the
old adage that "people in glass houses should not throw
1/
stones", the enclosed cartoons of Chiefs of State which
have recently appeared in Japanese newspapers may be of
interest to the Departnent. It is said that the Ministry
of the Interior issued a notice requiring all newspapers
and
F/FG

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
and magazines not to print caricatures of foreign
Soverei.ns and Chiefs of State, the order having
apparently boen lrsou : ree it or a protest fro.
the German sover mment tnst te putteation of
caricatures of  itler. So far, however, the order
appears to be more nonored in the breach thon in the
observance.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
891
JCG:C

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1626 dated January 9, 1935,
from the mbassy at Tokyo.
The Kokumin.
Tokyo, Sunday, January 5, 1936
球以外の世界には悲しい哉困難
刺る事階である、然るに西
ない、現度的加久的効果的な儀
善隣政液は最一常なる命学では
元も西球國間には幸にも
爾半國際人とし
一九三三年三月年六大統師之就
路を出ら、あることを撃げて
領就任當時來國際清勢惡化の
ト大統領は・ム・ッー調中の
四千語上り成り劈頭國際開係の軍
しく教術を朗讀した、教割は全文
事堂に臨み上下兩院議員を前に親
21℃
ヴェ一大欽領は日午後國會議
【ワシントンミ日發同盟】ルーズ
國際情勢の惡化は
大戰誘致の惧れ
景氣同位
することである
に復歸する様説得し援助し激動
國民に對し平和と善意との大道
しおらゆる合法的手段に依り他
けることを明止し、率先見を示
に地込主れ乃至外敵の政左受
秩字整然たる中立政策を持し
すべき役割は唯一つあるのみ
政府その他米大陸各國政府か果
るに至るであらう、此の間米國
れば全面的戦争の悲劇を誘放す
達た此の如き情勢が持護す
充分考慮せねばならぬ時期に到
すれば憤激事端を構へる實狀を
う甚だしく軍備は増大して動も
が増大し、侵略行動への傾向触
今や米國民は國際間に憎題の念
が地へない
大統領敎書中に說く
國民は全世界人口の一割乃至一
際平和と國際善意とを附書する
居る所である、然し乍ら此等國
だらうことは余の充分承知して
國民の間に決して好香を博さぬ
自らの脚に合と信じて居る各
んだ、以上の字句かかへる靴を
余は故意に以上の如き字句を選
との妄想に立ち戻るに至つた
主張する所に聽從せねばならぬ
ふ選民であり他國民はすべて其
信念乃至自國民だけが天命左擔
にも古い「側の非法」に關る
標を達成する舉に出でうに押急
に訴て自國の合理的合法的目
価に依り國際正義の高向な本能
るに當り充分忍耐せず平利的折
和的斋與に付捌け口を探求す
否文明の進運に對する月國の平
数濟しようとし、更に貴易人口
從前の諸戦争に由來する不正を
各國政府は擴張の餘地を追求し
口
勢に言及して日く
沸外交打切りを斷言した後圃内情
出水圓十義に基く通商政策を開明
次いでハーズヴエルト大統領は
力を傾けて抗軍する決意である
制とに對しては一切の道義的勢
とし弾…と差別と不寛容と痛城
紛平の平和的略決を達成しよう
方法を講じて軍備を制限し國際
る、米國政府は興剣にあらゆる
政府の政策は終始一貢明際であ
も此の爲である、然し乍ら米國
の所殆と成果を撃げて居ないの
を伝しようとする努力が今迄
めである、現行の海軍制限機構
に至つたのは此等少数人口の為
國の陸空兩軍が著しく増大する
力が從來悉く失敗にし更に各
備を縮小しようとする一切の努
割五分を占めるに過ぎない、軍
<開會議米
画
い漫満はルーズヴエルト大統
對しては敢然抗事せねばならな
うとする他ならず此等の徒輩に
比周して人民の自由を剃響しよ
と寸る獨成官乃至批準家は朋黨
の諸法令を完全に撤照し去らう
とを動否するニューデールド
政策に基いて更往遺進すべきこ
上下兩院に對しあくまで現在の
著回復して行く遺情に徴し余は
來るとになつたかく風氣が輩
加し失來救濟費の減額を期待出
入が増加したが故に就來率は増
して疑はない、更に父剛民の收
あり、且つ安當を缺くと余は信
新親を賦課することは不必要で
つて現行の税率以上に何等かの
自ら附加する込みである、從
課せ十現行設法の儘で税此入は
收入が地加したが故に新親を賦
的論理的政策を支持する國民の
此等の事遺は明白に政府の正常
家財政は均衛に近付きつつあり
た農工業は完全な活動に復國
國家收入は漸く回復するに至つ
The President in his message expresses fear that the
Unfavorable Trend in International Affairs will Bring
About a Great War.
NOTE:
Above is headline only. Body of the article
is a summary of the President's message to
Congress.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.89)
The Yomiuri.
Tokyo, December 29, 1935.
打診工作に對しヒトラー總統は極
てるると解せられるがこれらの
働きかけ極秘裡に外交折画を通め
再建を目標に買りにドィッ政府に
佛兩國政府は歐洲の安全保師機構
ニューヨーク廿七日發聯合
鼻息荒し匕總統
歐洲第一空軍舊獨領返還等
八日紙上で左の如く暴してある
報じニューヨークタイムス紙は甘
政府の企圖は一頼挫をしてあると
必て強便之決意を表明英佛兩國
ーエリック・フイップス氏は本
ベルリン駐剤イギリス大使サ
力參加條件に提出か
5
5
ドイツ政府にあると
一世界大戰の責任が
を返還する事
希望を容れ舊植民地
ドイツ政府年來の
する事
をドイツ政府に賦輿
比し斷然優勢な空軍
歐洲各國の空軍に
の三條件を提示した
ルノ協約案琴加の前提として次
ぬ旨を確言した、更に空軍口カ
空寅口力ルノ協約案に參加出來
持で刻下の情勢においては到底
ヒトラー總統は極度に激昂の面
に至るであららと述べたところ
歐洲各國政府の懸念は解消する
軍ロカルノ協約案を締結すれば
れたい旨希望した更に大使は空
府に於て何等かの保障を奥へら
得ない旨を率直に傳へドイッ政
つきイギリス政府が懸念を禁じ
使は特にドィッ政府の再軍備に
再軍備につき警告を與へた大
ヒトラー氏訪問、ドイッ政府の
國政府の訓令に基き去る十三日
府が航空母識を保有する事を承
隠してはるない、併しドイッ政
協定には空輩に調する出約が付
一、英稱兩國政府が締結した海軍
は願種に陥った
府は右要調を拒否したへめ交地
を要補した終るにイギリス政
に局限し他國の介入を許さぬ事
涉は事ら英編南調政府間の折動
空軍ロカルノ協約案に關する交
ロー公はフィップス大使に對し
一、其後外務次官フォン・ピュー
交涉を拒否した
ずる事が出來ぬ旨を述べ婉曲に
かた付かぬ間は俄かに交涉に應
統は伊ェ兩國間の紛事が何とか
する事を提識したがヒトラー絶
對し空軍口カルノ協約案を締結
フイッブス氏がヒトラー總統に
一、イギリス大使サー・エリック
次ぎの如く述べてある
つきロンドン外父界の消息勝では
カルノ協約案に調する外交折衝に
口ンF廿八日發聯合空軍口
事
工條利から削除する
の條項をヴエルサイ
定次の加く地べた
彼が重大回求を遠がしたとの
カルノ健業に開間しヒトラー
[口下ン廿八日合空
何等新な要求を遠示しなかつた
右見においてヒトラー編続は
ヒトラー納統と見を通けたが
タ・フイップス氏は考る十三目
ベルッン駐罰大使サー・ニリッ
英政府は否定
Overbearing President Hitler.
The Greatest Air Force in Europe and
Restoration of Former German Possessions,
etc.
Submitted as Conditions for articipation
in "Locarno"?
NOTE: The above are the headlines only of the attached clipping.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
The Jiji Shimpo.
Tokyo, December 29, 1935.
に於てヒトラー總続は何等の新たな要求を提示しなかつた」
府當局は廿八日午後之を否定次の如く迦べた「ペルリン駐刹大使フィップス氏は去る十三日ヒトラー開誌と會見を違げたが、右會見
をヴエルサイュ條約から削除すること
ッ政府に附奥すること一ドイッ政府年來の希皇を容れ習値民地を返週すること一世界大職の貴任がドイッ政府にあるとの項
ヒトラー總統は空軍ロカルノ條約案宮加の前提として次の三條件を提示した、ーョーロッパ各國の空軍に比し優勢な空軍をドイ
トラー總統は極めて強硬な決意を表明し、英佛兩國政府の企圖は一頓挫を來してると
ツ改府に働きかけ極秘裡に外交折衝を進めて居ると解されるがとれ等の打診に對してと
ューー聯台廿ハ日ッ英佛兩國政府はヨーロツパの安全保障機構再建を目標に頻りにドイ
母艦を保有することを承認しておるから駅示的に空軍の保有を承認したとは争へない漫書はヒトラー總統
HIMPO
新要求を出さぬ
匕總統の強硬態度て
空軍口力ルノ一頓挫
VOLKSSTET
ン外交界の消息筋では次の如く逃べてみる
關する密約が附隨しては居ない、然しドィノ府が航を
一、英獨兩國政府が締結した海軍協定には空軍に
を拒否した爲め交涉は頓挫に陷つた
入を許さことを要請した然るにイギリス政府は右要請
ルノ協約案に調する交涉は事ら英獨兩國政府間の折価に局限し、他國の介
一、その役外務次官フォンピューロー公はフィップス大使に討し空軍ロカ
案を拒否した
に交涉に應ずることが出來ぬ旨を述べ婉曲に交涉
トラー總統は伊工紛爭が何とか片付かぬ間は還か
カルノ協約案を締結することを提言した然しと
ラー總統を訪問ロンドン宣言の趣旨に基き空軍口
一、イギリス大使フイツプス氏は去る十三日ヒト
蟲のい要求を出す
府否定
英國政
を示したとの歌道に戦し、ィギリス
協約戦に勝明しヒトラー総認が重大風
(ロンドン聯合廿八日) 口九ん
Due to the Resolute Attitude of President
Hitler Aerial "Locarno" Strikes a Snag.
Submits Brazen Demands.
NOTE:
The above are the headlines only of the attached
clipping.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 6, 1936.
. - M. M.
EHD:
RMITT
SKH:
Tokyo's No. 1775 of Anril 13 reports
that the Japanese Government is taking
various steps to control the collecting
and dissemination of news.
For some time the Government has been
striving to effect a merger of tre several
news agencies. Effective May 1 the
Nippon Dempo is to be amalgamated with
Domei Tsushinsha, itself a reorganization
of the former Shimbun Rengo. The purpose
of the amalgamation of news agencies into
one concern under Government control is
to create an organ, not necessarily for
the dissemination of accurate news, but
rather for the dissemination of the
approved Japanese version. The Embassy
predicts that press censorship will be
enforced more rigidly and effectively than
before.
There will still be available the
foreign news reports of the ASAHI, MAINICHI
and other papers maintaining correspondents
abroad.
A translation service in Tokyo (The
Okuyama Service) which has been supplying
summaries in English from the daily press
to foreign missions, has been discontinued
by pojice action.
Japanese

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Japanese translators in the employ of
the Soviet and Cl inese Embassies in Tokyo
have been arrested by the police. The
Soviet Embassy, which believes that the
police are desirous of preventing the
Embassy from obtaining news, las protested
to the Foreign Office.
The Embassy states that there is a
distinct tendency to muzzle the individual
foreign press correspondent residing in
Japan, as well as to control the cissemina-
tion of news through control of the amalga-
mated news agency.
The press reports that the military
authorities are considering the placing of
a ban on the supplying of trade information
to foreigners. The Embassy preicts that
it will be much more difficult in the
future for foreign missions in Tokyo to
obtain information in regard to political
matters and for consular off:cers to obtain
trade informetion.
894.918/21
WT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.93)
MEGAL AIWISE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
TEDSTATES OF AMERICA
No. 1775.
MAY
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 13, 1936.
894.918
SUBJECT:
INCREASED CONTROL OF NEWS IN JAPAN.
no ti
80020294
No
THE UNPL GERRLTARY
V
MAY
894.918/21
UNI
REPARTMENT DF SAF
MID
CONFIDENTIAL.
Gurn ay-
WTT
COPIES SENT TO
Division of
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
DEPAR
PAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 5-1936
MAY1
INFORMATION
STATE
MAY 121936
OF ST ATE
cmarclal ca (
moscour
T'e
Honorable
5111/ 36
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
CHE
With reference to previous despatches and telegrans
F
MA
in whioh mention has been made of press bans and other
methods of suppressing news in Japan, I now have the
honor to report that recent steps which have been taken
by the Japanese Government will make it even more diffi-
cult in the future to obtain and disseminate accurate
information in regard to events in this country and to
publish

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
publish information in Japan about occurrences abroad.
Merger of DOMEI TSUSHINSHA and NIPPON DEMPO.
As the Embassy reported in despatch No. 1756,
dated April 1, 1936, a merger has been arranged, after
considerable official pressure was brought to bear,
between Domei Tsushinsha and Nippon Dempo. The Domei
Tsushinsha is the reorganized Shimbun Rengo and is
partly official in character, through its connection
with the Japan Broadcasting Company, a non-profit-
making organization supervised by the Department of Com-
munications. The news collecting and distributing organi-
zation of Nippon Dempo will be amalgamated with Domei
Tsushinsha, effective about May 1, 1936, after which
time there will be only one large news agency, which
will have a decidedly official tinge, in Japan. As
far as is now known, however, the very large newspapers,
such as the TOKYO ASAHI and OSAKA ASAHI, will continue
to operate their own news-gathering organizations, in
addition to subscribing to the service of the Domei
Tsushinsha.
The purpose of this Government-fostered amalgamation
can be found in the announcement made by the Minister
for Communications, excerpts from which follow:
" It has become one of the most important
of Japan's national policies to establish a
strong and united news agency on which the
whole nation may rely and which the whole
world can consider authoritative. Accuracy
and speed in the gathering and distribution
of news has become more and more important,
demestically in order to provide a basis
for sound public opinion and internationally
in order to promote understanding of Japan
on the part of the other Powers . .
a new great agency will come forth . . to
fulfill the great mission of executing the
national polioy of Japan and working for
world peace.
Reading

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
Reading between these lines, it would appear that
the purpose of the amalgamation of the news agencies
of Japan into one concern under Government control is
to create an organ, not necessarily for the dissemina-
tion of accurate news, but rather for the dissemination
of the proper Japanese official views - in other words,
a propaganda organ. It can be safely assumed that the
agency will send abroad only such news as will be con-
sidered to redound to the credit of Japan, will dissemi-
nate in Japan only such domestic news as will be con-
sidered as propagating the national spirit and as
avoiding national unrest, and will strictly censor
all news entering Japan from abroad in order to elimi-
nate adverse criticism of the nation and its policies.
News from abroad will probably be more limited than in
the past, as it is rumored that only one American news
service will be taken in the future. Formerly, the
Rengo agency subscribed to Reuter's and the Associated
Press, which was relayed to Japan from London through
Reuter's, while Nippon Dempo subscribed to the United
Press service. It is now reported that Domei Tsushinsha
will discontinue the United Press service after amalga-
mation with Nippon Dempo, thus limiting the American
news entering Japan to that supplied by the Associated
Press through Reuter's. There will still be available,
however, the despatches of the staff correspondents in
the United States of such large Japanese newspaper
organizations as the ASAHI and OSAKA MAINICHI concerns,
unles8

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
unless these despatches also are subjected to strict
censorship. Moreover, the foreign press correspondents
in Japan of newspapers abroad will continue to supply
their newspapers with despatches on special subjects,
but as is explained later in this despatch, efforts will
apparently be made to restrict their activities.
The Suppression of the Okayama Service.
The staff of the Okayama Service ( a daily news
service in English, composed of translations from the
morning Japanese newspapers) is reported to have been
arrested on April 2, since when the service has been
discontinued. It is rumored that Okayama and his help-
ers were taken in charge by the police because the
Service had been supplying "undesirable information"
to certain Embassies in Tokyo, in addition to the usual
mimeographed translation service, and because he had
been issuing his translation service without having
complied with the publications laws of Japan. However,
it is believed that these are only excuses for suppress-
ing the translation service. Mr. Okayama has a remarkable
sense of news values, especially in regard to items of
interest to the foreign Embassies and Legations in Tokyo,
which are his principal subscribers, and his daily summary
of the Japanese press has been of great assistance to
the diplomatic corps in Tokyo. It is believed, there-
fore, that the primary complaint of the authorities
against Okayama is that he was disseminating Japanese
news to the Embassies and Legations too frankly and too
accurately

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
一 5 -
accurately. The suppression of his service will be a
matter of regret to the diplomatic corps and to the
foreign newspaper correspondents in Tokyo. Most of the
Embassies and Legations have their own staffs of trans-
lators, but such translators usually have little or no
sense of news values, and if left to their own devices
will almost invariably overlook items of interest and
will translate items of minor importance, while the
foreign members of the staffs of the Embassies and
Legations seldom acquire sufficient proficiency in
the written language to scan carefully more than one or
two Japanese newspapers in the course of a morning. The
suppression of the Okayama Service, therefore, if permanent,
will probably necessitate the strengthening of the trans-
lation staffs of all the diplomatic missions in Tokyo.
But, as is indicated in the next section of this despatch,
under present conditions in Japan, the diplomatic missions
cannot even be certain that they will be able to retain
the services of Japanese translators.
Arrest of the Japanese Translators of the Soviet Embassy
In the early part of March, the police arrested and
701.
detained three Japanese subjects, translators for the
Soviet Embassy in Tokyo, and one Japanese subject, re-
ported to be a translator for the Chinese Embassy. With
these persons, the police arrested several other Japa-
nese, reported to be the associates of the arrested trans-
lators. The arrests are said to have been made because
all of the translators and their friends were of leftist
tendencies.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
tendencies. According to the newspapers, the Soviet
Ambassador protested against the arrests of his em-
ployees to the Foreign Office, on the grounds that the
arrests were handicapping the work of the Soviet Embassy
and, moreover, were entirely unreasonable. The Foreign
Office defense, it is reported, is that the arrested
persons were of leftist tendencies and that in a time of
emergency it is only natural that the authorities should
examine such persons.
The First Secretary of the Soviet Embassy informed
the First Secretary of this Embassy that the arrested
persons were not engaged in espionage but were simply
translators, such as are employed by every other Embassy,
engaged in translating letters received in Japanese and
items of interest in the Japanese newspapers. He said
that the charges that the men were active communists
were pure nonsense, and that the principal motive for
the arrests seemed to be to prevent information from
reaching the Soviet Embassy. He said that, prior to the
suppression of the Okayama Service, Mr. Okayama had been
ordered by the police to discontinue the supplying of his
service to the Soviet Embassy, also indicating an attempt
to prevent information from reaching the Soviet Embassy.
Miscellaneous Restrictions.
Before the incident of February 26, 1936, it was re-
ported in the newspapers that the Government was con-
sidering the imposition of a stricter censorship on news
despatches sent to their newspapers by the foreign press
oorrespondents

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
correspondents in Japan, in order to prevent the
dissemination abroad of news or opinions considered
as harmful to the prestige of Japan. No official
step was taken to this end, as far as the Embassy
is aware, but during the recent incident a strict
censorship was imposed on the news despatches filed
for transmission by the foreign press correspondents.
At times no press telegrams were accepted for trans-
mission, and others which were accepted were sent
only in part. During this period, a British writer,
Gerald Sampson, was arrested on charges of having
circulated harmful rumors. He was detained for nine-
teen days, reportedly without permission to communicate
with his Embassy or Consulate, and eventually deported
to Shanghai. He denies having spread harmful rumors
and it is suspected that he was arrested and deported
because it was believed by the authorities that he might
write articles critical of Japan and its policies. It
appears probable, from these facts, that there is a
distinct tendency to attempt to muzzle the individual
press correspondents, as well as to control the dissemi-
nation of news through the control of the amalgamated
news agency.
It was announced in the newspapers some time ago
that the military authorities were considering the placing
of a ban on the supplying of trade and industrial in-
formation to foreigners. Up to that time the ban applied
only to information which might be considered as in the
olass

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
class of "military secrets", but in view of the importance
of all industries to national defense, the ban was to be
extended to include industries and trade not directly
connected with military affairs. The office of the
Commercial Attaché of the Embassy, however, states that
as yet the ban (if it has been imposed) on the supplying
of trade and industrial information has had no effect
on the collection of such information by that office.
The ASAHI of March 13, 1936, stated that the Foreign
Office has adopted the policy of dealing speedily and
severely with foreigners resident in Japan who may be
found to have been engaged in anti-Japanese activities
and of preventing the entry into Japan of foreigners
who are suspected of ideas and actions which might be
dangerous to peace and order in Japan. On April 8, 1936,
the ASAHI announced that the Ministry of Home Affairs in-
tended to request an additional appropriation of Yen 1,Ooo,0oo
for the purpose of financing an expansion of the police force
devoted to watching the activities of foreigners in Japan.
This step was to be taken in order to suppress the activi-
ties of secret agents who are supposed to be gathering
information for the use of foreign countries. The nature
of the anti-Japanese activities of which foreigners are
suspected, or the kind of information which they are sus-
pected of gathering, are not specified, but it is pre-
sumed that the references are primarily to espionage
of a military character. Nevertheless, it is not only
possible

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
possible but probable that the gathering and dissemination
of news and opinions critical of Japan or harmful to
Japanese prestige abroad may be considered as "anti-
Japanese acts" and consequently as subjecting the for-
eigners involved to punishment.
It is difficult to state whether the additional
restrictions imposed or threatened to be imposed on the
activities of news gathering and disseminating organs in
Japan are caused by an exaggerated case of "spyitis" or
are due to a deep-seated but tacit desire on the part of
the Japanese people to return to the status of a hermit
nation - a nation which, resentful of the criticisms
levelled at it by other nations, wishes to hide its
sores from the gaze of others. Some observers interpret
recent developments in one way and some in the other.
In view of the fact that the Soviet Embassy is frequently
761.94
mentioned in the newspapers in connection with the re-
strictions imposed or proposed, however, it is believed
that the actions recently taken are directed primarily
at the Soviet Embassy and the Tass news agency, probably
because of the fear of a possible outbreak of a second
Russo-Japanese war and the consequent desirability of
preventing too muoh information concerning conditions in
Japan from reaching Soviet Russia.
Although the restrictions may be directed primarily
at the Soviet organs in Tokyo, the fact remains that they
will apply, probably almost with equal force, to other
diplomatic missions and news agencies here. It can
0
therefore be assumed that it will be much more difficult
in the future for the diplomatic missions in Tokyo to
obtain

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10-
obtain accurate and reliable information concerning
events in Japan, and it is even possible, with the
strict censorship of incoming and outgoing news, that
the diplomatic missions in Tokyo may be entirely unaware
of important events of which the outside world has con-
siderable information.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
891.
ERD:r

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/166
#1876
SEE
FOR
894.918/
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED ...May.291936.
TO
NAME
1-1197
2
REGARDING:
2
Restriction of the Press - Japan.
Report on the - by
the passa e of the Seditious Literature Bill and the
Mobilizat ion Secrets Bill.
2
r
b
894.918

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.91)
15 1930
Ju
204
Current History
63 PAFR ROW
ack'd.rtal
NEW YORK CITY
to Joleyr
1936." 15 A 11 25
C.
HONS
ALRDS
July 14, 1936.
194.918
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
39
Dear Sirs:
We have today been advised by the post office
.918/23
in New York that our May issue, Volume 44 Number 2,
has been suppressed in Japan. We are enclosing a
letter which we have today addressed to the Japanese
Ambassador, and if you have any information regarding
this ban on CURENT HI STORY, we shall greatly appreciate
hearing from you.
Very truly yours,
JCC*EJ
CU-RRENT HISTORY
John C. Casman
(
F/FG

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
July 16 1938
In reply refer to
FE 894.918/23
CURRENT HISTORY,
63 Park Row,
New York, New York.
Sirs:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
894.918/23
July 14, l936, requesting to be supplied with available
information in regard to the suppression in Japan of
the May issue of CURRENT HISTORY.
The Department has at hand no information other
3
than newspaper reports in regard to this matter, but
has requested the American Embassy in Tokyo to endeavor
to aseertain, and to report, the facts in the case.
Upon reeeipt of a report from the Embassy, the Depart-
ment will expect to communicate with you again.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Wilbur J. Carr
Assistant. Secretary.
R
Ju1.16 1936.PM
FE

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
July 16, 1936.
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
95
Please/endeavor to ascertain the facts/in connection
with the/suppression/of May/issue/of/CURRENT/HISTORY/and
roport/via(naval/radio Shanghai.
894.918/23
Itues.
(a2)
1936 JUL 16
3
PV 6
0
OR,
Jul. 16 1036.PM
B
nin.
19
 RING 

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
Washington Times
JUL201936
JAPAN SEIZES
MAGAZINES
Copies of the May issue of Cur
rent History magazine have been
confiscated by post office authori-
ties in Kobe. Japan. presumably
because of articles in that issue
relating to Japanese affairs, it was
learned yesterday.
Notice of the confiscation was
received by M. E. Tracy, publisher
of the magazine, from the New
York post office in a communica-
tion relayed from Kobe through
Seattle.
Mr. Tracy was unable to explain
the action of the Kobe post office
and sought information from the
State Department and the Japa-
nese Embassy in Washington.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 22, 1936.
STH:
Nr. Mcrermott states that the
Department ras received no inquiry from
CURRENT HISTCRY in regard to the
confiscation of the May issue of that
magazine other than the letter of
July 14 appended hereto. Mr. McDermott
thinks that the item in the WASHINGTON
TIMES of July 20 refers to that letter.
W11
210
WTT/DLY

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
Ta
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LNS
GRAY
1-—1330
FROM
Shanghai
Dated July 21, 1936
Secretary of State,
Lette to Current
History
Washington.
94.7
402, Ju1y 21, 4 p. m.
23388
894.918/24
FOLLOWING FROM TOKYO.
23
"157, July 17, 1 p. m. Department's 95, July 16,
7 p. m. When the May issue of Current History reached
Japan the local agent, who distributes a number of
American publications, was officially informed it would
not be allowed distribution in Japan. No offending
article was cited. The agent states that in nearly every
mail some foreign publication is banned, of which he is
informed in a similar manner, and he relays this infor-
mation to his principals.
Inquiry in other directions indicates that the
issue contained references to the February 26 incident
which has been under a press ban. This appears to be
a reasonable explanation, although the Embassy has beer
FILED
unable to verify it. The action was apparently taken
人
x
in accordance with law, and the Embassy has made no
19361
inquiry of the Foreign Office. Grew."
月
GAUSS
WWC

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
FE 894.918/24
July 29 1936
CURRENT HISTORY,
63 P'ark Row,
New Yerk, New York.
894.918/24
Sirs:
Reference 1s made to your letter of July 14, 1936,
requesting to be supplied with available information with
regard to the suppression in Japan of the May issue of
CURRENT HISTORY, and to the Department's letter of
July 16, 1936, stating that the American Fmbassy in
Tokyo had been requested to ascertain, and to report,
the facts in the case.
A report has been received from the American Embassy
in Tokyo to the following effect:
When the May issue of CURRENT HISTORY reached Japan
the local agent was officially informed that it would not
be allowed distribution in Japan. No offending article
was cited. The agent, who distributes a mumber of American
publications, stated that in nearly every mail some
foreign publication is banned. Inquiry in other directions
indicates
tant
à

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
indicates that the 1ssue contained references to the
incident of February 26 in which several Japanese states-
men were assassinated. As mention of this ineident was
prohibited by police order, it appears that the action
of the authorities in suppressing the issue of CURRENT
HISTORY was in accordance with law.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Sumner Wellea
Assistant Secretary.
2
A true copy of
the signed orial-
nal.
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
A-C
u
ant
absn
7-22-36
S4
 28 1936.P
CR

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
91
94.
1-13.16
FROM
FS
GRAY
8
Te
Dated Jul: P7,1936
Rec1d 12:02 a. m.
Aeb
Letter to Current
Secretary of State,
Hustory
Washingte.
894.918/25
162, July 27, 11 a. m.
rw
My 157, July 17, 1 p. m.
The selline arent for Current History informs me that
he inquired personally of the Censor's Office the reason
for suppression of the Hay issue of the magasine. He
was informed that it was due to an article by Charles
Hodges entitled "Jupanese Enigma".
RR
GREW
OL1036
FTLED

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
July 30 1936
In reply refer to
FE 894.918/25
CURRENT HISTORY,
63 Park Row,
New York, New York.
Sirs:
Further reference is made to your letter of July 14,
894.918/
1936, with regard to the suppression in Japan of the May
issue of CURRENT HISTORY.
The Department is informed by the American Ambassador
at Tokyo that the selling agent in Japan for CURRENT
2
5
HISTORY stated to the Ambassador that the Censor's Office,
in response to an inquiry with regard to the reason for
suppression of the May issue of the magazine, informed
the selling agent that the suppression was due to an
article by Mr. Charles Hodges entitled "Japanese Enigma".
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
9
so
Sumner Welles
A true copy of
Asoiotant Seciulasy.
the
nai
FE
u
7-29-36

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
5
RECEIVED
Current Bistory
DEPARTMENT OF STAIE
FW?
63 PARK ROW
NEW YORK CITY
1936 AUG 5 AM 9 56
DIVISION F
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Divisionor
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 4, 1936.
AUG5-1936
Department of State
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Re: FE 894.918/25
Dear Sirs:
We wish to acknowledge receipt of, and thank
894.918/26
you for your letters of July 29 and 30 giving us further
information on the suppression of our May issue in
Japan.
Very trudy yours,
JCC*EJ
CURRENT HISTORY
AUC.8-1936
FILED

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
VPGA
ADVISER
2
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.9/5
okyo, 0ctober 28, 1936.
No. 2106.
SUBJECT:
DISPOSITION OF AMERIC BOOKS EXCLUDED FROM JAPAN.
J
894.918/27
15
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose herewith copy of a letter
of October 23, 1936, addressed to the Embassy by Mr. W.S.
F-J
Hall, representative of Snyder & Hall, 500 Fifth Avenue,
New York City, a firm which performs the export business
for a large number of American book publishers. Mr. Hall
is interested in obtaining the permission of the Japanese
Government to return to American senders any orders of book
FILED
which are refused admission to Japan upon their receipt here
1936
The present practice is apparently to confiscate any books
which are not admitted.
The Embassy also encloses copy of an informal memorandum
on the same subject left today with the Chief of the Bureau
of

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of American Affairs of the Japanese Foreign Office. The
Chief of the Bureau stated that the Foreign Office will
look into the matter and communicate the results of its
investigation to the mbassy.
Respectfully yours,
E.R.Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
1/ Copy of letter, Cctober 23, 1936, W.S. Hall
to the Embassy.
2/ Copy of Embassy's informal memorandum of
October 27, 1936, on the confiscation of
excluded books.
891.
CC:g

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2106 of 0ctober 28, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY.
Imperial Hotel
Tokyo
Oct. 23, 1936.
American Embassy
Tokyo
Dear Sirs,
I do not know whether you can be of any help to me
and the persons on whose behalf I am writing. But at the
risk of troubling you unnecessarily I would like to ac-
quaint you with a condition that, while it seems a wholly
Japanese affair, nevertheless does concern American trade
with this country.
It is the custom of the post office authorities, acting
I believe under the direction of the Metropolitan Police, to
confiscate books mailed from abroad of which they disapprove.
I fully admit their right to ban as many books as they please
but 1 protest as strongly as I may be permitted as the re-
presentative of the leading American publishers, to the
destruction or confiscation of these books. It is a hardship
quite needlessly imposed on Japanese book-dealers, who are
called upon by the publishers to pay for these books just
as if they had been received in due course.
I believe that the monetary loss each year to the book
trade in Japan is considerable, and when it is remembered
that the books in guestion are quite innocently ordered it
seems to me a rather ruthless and unjust procedure to seize
this merchandise when, so far as the moral safety of Japan
is concerned, the same end is achieved if the books are re-
fused entry and returned to the sender.
As Americans we are concerned to this extent - that the
book-dealers in Japan are becoming increasingly nervous and
hesitate to buy many titles they know could sell, simply to
avoid risk of confiscation. I may add that there is small com-
fort to a publisher in receiving payment from an honest dealer
for books he never got.
Please understand that I am speaking throughout of per-
fectly clean, honest books which for some reason or other,
possibly political, are not approved of by the authorities.
Books which by any stretch of the imagination might be termed
erotic or pornographic we do not sell, nor indeed are they
puhlished by the firms we represent.
I should like it to be understood that while I am appealing
to you "on behalf" of the Japanese book-dealers, as I say, no
one

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
one of them has suggested thet I do anything at all about
the matter. But it seemed tc me wrong not to.
rRespectfully yours,
(signed) W.s. hall

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 2106 of 0ctober 28, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
When orders of books from the United States are
prohibited entry into Japan they are evidently confiscated.
The American book industry is interested in a change of
practice which would allow the books to be returned to
the senders. Because of the difficulty of anticipating
accurately whether or not a certain book will be forbidden
entry, Japanese buyers cf American books will not assume
the risk of placing normal orders for new American books,
and the American book industry thereby suffers a loss.
Inasmuch as the purpose of the Japanese law is not to
cause such loss to American interests but is to protect
Japan, and inasmuch as such protection of Japan would not
be weakened by allowing the return of books excluded instead
of requiring their confiscation, the American interests
concerned consider their request a reasonable one.
Tokyo, October 27, 1936.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
No1.18,1936
Ih is my understandin that
FORTUNE waI tanned for the
reason thah malters were
discussed which came wnder
a press cenrors hip

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2116.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, October 31, 1936.
SUBJECT:
AMLERICAN BCCKS A D AGAZINES RECENTLY EXCLUDED
FROM JAPAN.
894.918/28
Division of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
C!
Department of State
8
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the following books
and magazines have recently been forbidden entry into
F
-J
Japan:
(1) FORTUNE, September, 1936. The cause of exclusion
is seid to be lese majesty.
(2) The LITERARY DIGEST, September 26, 1936. The
reason for exclusion is also said to be lese majesty.
41936
FILED
(3) FIIM FUN, all issues. The reason for exclusion
is indecency.
(4)

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
(4) EYES ON JAPAN, by Victor Yakhontov. Passages
in this book, particularly relating to the "Cult of the
Mikado", are re orted to be considered lese majesty.
There anpears to be increased activity on the part of
the Japanese authorities in excluding foreign books and
periodicals in recent onths. An exception is the ad-
mission of THE FAR EASTERN CRISIS, by Henry L. Stimson,
re orted in despatch No. 2112, of 0ctober 30, 1336. In
that instance, the ban ing of the book was a parently
opposed by the Foreign Office, and in private conversa-
tion the Foreign Office snokesmon has personelly taken
credit for the action.
Respectfully yours,
1.Dik
E.R. Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
891.
CC:r

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
OF THE
WE
UNITED STATEAR AMER
Departm
No. 2269
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 17, 1937
894.9.1
SUBJECT: PRESS BAN ON CERTAIN MILITARY MEASURES.
862c.01
u
894.918/29
C
R
Sele
CONFIDENTIAL
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1937
I have the honor to inform the Department that on
February 4, 1937, newspapers in Japan were instructed by
the police to publish no reference (other than official
statements by the War and Navy ministries) to military
measures to be taken in the southwest islands of Japan,
in Formosa, toward the Bonin Islands, or in North Korea.
The ban was distributed to the newspapers in the usual
form.
F/G
Bans.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Bans in the past have often been issued to conceal
activities in process, and sometimes to protect against
unfounded rumors. The facts in the present instance are
not known to the Embassy.
Respectfully yours,
CC:m
Joseph C. Grew
891
Copy to Embassy, Peiping

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 3, 1937
The Embassy at Tokyo re-
ports that certain American
periodicals have been con-
fiscated in Japan. This action
grows out of a variety of
causes: resentment over
disrespect to the Emperor and
critical comment about the
Army.
894.918/30
wn
WTTXDLY

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.91)
Frw
A
TH:E FOREIGN SERVICE
XE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 10, 1937.
No. 2405.
SUBJECT: ANERICAN MAGAZINES RECENTLY EXCLUDED.
OPIES SENT TO
ND
394.918/
mi
ortly in F E(3×1)
CN
Division of
O
FAE FASTERN ALFAIRS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
11528
In continuation of the Embassy's despatch No. 2ll6,
October 31, 1936, I have the honor to inform the Depart-
ment that the Tokyo ASAHI newspaper of May 6, 1937, re-
ports official Japanese confiscation of the March issue of the
American periodical LIVING AGE and of the April issue of
FILED
…
the American periodical ESQUIRE. The ASAHI states that
the objection to the March LIVING AGE results from a re-
mark disrespectful to the Emperor. The cause for the con-
fiscation of the April ESQUIRE, as stated in the paper, is
something quite new in the history of Japanese exclusion
of foreign periodicals: resentment over a caricature of
F
1

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
a Japanese general as a Lawrence of Japan, and over the
accompanying abuse of the Japanese army's policy toward
China.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
891.
CC:g

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.86)
Tok, ay 10. 1937.
No. P408.
SUPJCT:
The donorable
The eeret ry or  tate,
ashinyton.
1r:
In continuetion of the mhas  e desr ate o. Plle.
toher al, 1o5a, 1 have the to nor to imform the epert-
nt thet the okyo neveer of ,1937, re
porte offleinl Jepaneee confire tion f e ro Iseue of the
mericapriodic1
end of the prll 1ssue of
the merican periodical
heI st tes that
tho onjeotion to ne areh  results fron  re
mark disreopectful to the mperor. The snuse for the con-
fleestlon of t ril , ar teted in the Taper, is
somotnins quite now in the hintory of Japaneee exclusion
of forein periodieals: resentment over  omriouture of
二

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.82)
-2-
a Japanese general as  awrenee of Japan, and over the
aocompanying a use of te dopsnese army's polley toward
China.
eapectfully oure
Joeoph. rew
391.
CC:E
.. 52nd :tg
24..

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 25, 1939
NHH
To note that the Japan Advertiser of
July 4, 1939, was suppressed because of the
publication by it of an article by Mr. Czaki
advocating the maintenance of neutrality by
Japan in the next world war. It is not clear
what particular passages in Mr. Ozaki's
article were objected to by the Japanese
censors, unless possibly the writer's con-
tention that neither Germany or Italy has
anyting to compensate Japan for entering a
world war on their side. Mr. Ozaki feels
that if Japan would only stay out of the next
world war, she will be in a position to
control not only the Far East but the whole
world.
894.918/31
FE:Ballantine:HJN

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.94)
fE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
7 1039
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4014
Tokyo, July 6, 1939
SUBJECT:
SUPPRESSIOI OF JAPAN ADVERTISER OF JULY 4, 1939.
10
9g39 24M 12
B
yFE
894.918/31
ONI MID
894.918
EJL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
600188700
Washington
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith clipping
F/A
of the article in the JAPAN ADVERTISER which caused
the suppression by the police of its issue of July 4,
OF STATE
l0sp. The article is by Mr. Yukio Ozaki, the well-
known member of the Japanese Diet, and it is in favor
the maintenance of neutrality by Japan in the next
thor are considerations of self-interest, and are not
notably

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
notably radical. In the course of the article Mr.
Ozaki has some frank statements to make about Japan's
relations with Germany and Italy, and it is probable
that these observations were the cause of the suppression.
The action of the police was taken under a general
article of the press law having to do with the main-
tenance of peace and public order.
Mr. Ozaki notus that during the European war of
1914-1918 Japan's wealth and prosperity increased
enormously. He says that a similar neutral position
in the next world war would probably permit Japan to
meet the large expenditures which have already been
incurred in the conflict in China. He points out that
during the war of 19l4-1918 Japan was virtually a
neutral in spite of its nominal participation on the
side of the Allies. If in the next war Japan were to
take the side of Germany and Italy, he points out,
Japan must pay a heavy sacrifice and gain little, be-
cause neither Germany nor Italy has anything to offer.
He sees unwisdom also in the. excessive eagerness cur-
rently shown by some Japanese for currying favor with
the United States, which deliberate calculating atti-
tude he believes must bring contempt. Mr. Ozaki fore-
sees, in the event of Japanese neutrality, Japan and
the United States as the only surviving great powers
after the next war, with greatly enhanced prestige and
authority on the part of Japan.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER for July 4 had already been
distributed when the police suppressed the issue and
confiscated

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
confiscated all copies remaining in the ADVERTISER's
office. There was no attempt made to recover copies
already distributed. After the sunpression the
ADVERTISER learned that the Japanese magazine in which
the article had originally appeared, the NIPPON HYORON
for July, had similarly been suppressed without calling
in copies already distributed; and that the translation
service CONTEMPORARY OPINIONS, in which the article had
been first translated before the ADVERTISER made use of
it, had been suppressed in the same manner.
Respectfully yours,
Eugene H. Dooman
Chargé d'Affaires a.i.
Enclosure:
Clipping, "Riches, Power Seen for Japan if Neutral
in Next World War," JAPAN ADVERTISER, July 4, 1939.
891
CC:mg

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, to despatch
No. 4014, dated July 6,1939.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, July 4, 1939.
RICHES, POWER SEEN FOR JAPAN
IF NEUTRAL IN NEXT WORLD WAR
Participation Opposed as Profiting Nothing and Certain
to Pull Nation Down in Common Ruin
By YUKIO OZAKI
Contemporary Opinions has trans-
lated from the July issue of the
It is common knowledge thai the next
Nippon Hyoron this extract of an
European war will be waged between
article by one of the country's best-
the German-Italian combine and ti:e
known veteran parliamentarians. a
Anglo-French alliance, which sooner or
member of every Diet since the first.
later will be joined by the United
States. Japan would have three
Were a general war to break out
choices: to side with the former of
in Europe it not only would make dis-
these two groups, to take part with the
posal of the China situation much
latter or to remain out of the war.
easier for Japan but also would re-
If it decided on the first, it would
have to face the three Demccracies
store to its coffers almost immediately
with the navy as its main weapon. The
what it has spent on the China cam-
Washington naval treaty fixed the
paign.
relative strengths of the. British. Amer-
The Governiment's estimate of na-
ican and Japanese navies at 10:10:6.
tional wealth at the time of the Russo-
Though there have been some changes
Japanese War, 1904-5, was ¥22,600,000.-
the present ratio between the Japanese
000,000, which increased to ¥102,300,000.-
navy and the other two navies com-
000,000 in 1923. The average annual
bined is in the neighborhood of 3:10.
increase was ¥1.100,000,000 in the 1905-
Granting that the two Powers cannot
12 period and ¥7,000,000,000 in the 1913-
afford to send their entire naval forces
23 period. But in the seven years
to the Far East. yet Japan would
after 1923 the average dropped again
have to pay very dearly for annihila-
to ¥1,100,000,000. There can be no doubt
tion of their fleets, perhaps even at
that the enormous increase in national
the cost of crippling its own naval
wealth in the 1913-23 period was
forces fatally.
caused chiefly by the World War, which
Would Depend on Itself
brought to Japan a great boom of pros-
But what could it gain from such a
perity.
sacrifice? Neither Germany nor Italy
If an European war breaks out, the
has anything to offer. All it could
Powers involved will find themselves
expect would have to come from the
compelled to look to Japan for sup-
enemy Powers, and Japan could not
plies of necessary materials. As
acquire it, no matter how much co-
things look now, the situation in Europe
operation Germany and Italy migt
threatens to develop into a general war
offer, unless itself possessed of the real
at any time, and that would bring
power to do so.
great wealth to Japan.
On the other hand, if Japan sided
with theAnglo-French-American
Almost a Neutral
combination, it would find tself, as in
In the World War, Japan fought
the World War, in the position of a
Germany on the side of the Allies,
neutral, for it would be necessary or
but in reality its position was little
extremely difficult for it to send mili-
different from that of a neutral Power,
tary or naval forces to the war theater
for Germany was too far away to send
in Europe.
expeditionary forces against Japan and
If it were too remain neutral, how-
possessed hardly anything to surrender
ever, it would be certain to find itself
to Japan in the Far East. Japan re-
in a very advantageous position, for the
nained virtually a neutral, though its
Democracies would do their utmost to
naval forces went to the Indian Ocean
please it in hope of maintaining intact
to guard British and French merchant
their spheres of influence in the Orient
ships and transports. The war
and the axis States would spare no
ushered in a great period of national
efforts to turn it against their enemies.
prosperity.
By joining either side, it would make
It is remarkable that even today,
an enemy of the other, with the pos-
when Japan is engaged in the China
sibility that it would have to pay a
incident, increasing prosperity is be-
great price and all for nothing. When
ing enjoyed. It is very likely, there-
everything is taken into consideration,
fore, that in the event of an Euro-
neutrality would seem to be the wisest
pean war it would be revisited by a
course for Japan in the next Euro-
boom so great that the stupendous
pean war.
outlay on the incident would be cover-
ed immediately.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
Limited by Arita
Japan, U.S. Would Remain
In the last Diet session, Foreign
In the event of an European war, all
Minister Hachiro Arita very rightly ex-
the participants, whether victorious or
plained that the anti-Comintern pact
defeated, finally would be involved in
is intended simply to guard against
the destructive activities of the Com-
ruin, leaving Japan to deal only with
intern and in no sense means an offen-
the United States. which also would
sive and defensive alliance against the
survive. As a result, all the other na-
Soviet Union. It should not be carried
tions of Asia would have to fall back
beyond this limit. In the event of an-
on Japan.
other war in Europe resulting from
The Powers at present are divided
causes having nothing to do with the
into two opposing camps, the one con-
pact, Japan should maintain neutrality
sisting of Germany and Italy and
and not allow itself to become involved.
the other of Britain and France.
for by so doing it could gain a highly
with the United States as a future
advantageous position among the
partner. With excessive eagerness for
Powers in spite of its clumsiness in
maintaining friendly relations, some
diplomacy.
Japanese are going to the length of cur-
Moreover, it would gain enormous
rying favor with the United States.
profits. In all probability there would
but such a mean attitude only will
be a return, with far greater intensity,
bring contempt on the nation. The Un-
of what happened during the World
ited States, being essentially a nation
War when its national wealth jumped
of liberty and independence, eventual-
from less than 30,000,000,000 to more
ly would be induced to fight for Demo-
than 100,000,000,000. Though it is uncer-
cracy against the authoritarian States.
tain whether this good fortune really
If Japan participated in the authori-
will come, it at least is true that world
tarian front, therefore, there is hardly
developments suggest its approach.
any possibility that the United States
How could it be wise for Japan to act
would enter the war on the same side
against it?
with it. There is ample reason to be-
Thought also must be given to the
lieve, however, that the United States,
aftermath of Japanese participation in
unlike all the other participants, would
a world war. Even if it emerged
survive the war because of its geo-
victorious, it is very unlikely that it
graphical and other advantages. As a
would gain anything, for the next
result of the war, only Japan and the
world war, as many intelligent people
United States would remain powerful
feas, will mean the loss of everything
enough to deal freely with world af-
fairs.
and bring the ruin of modern civiliza-
Great Opportunity Given
tion.
The World War was a cataclysm
If it would stay out of the coming
hat destroyed half of civilization and
war, Japan would find itself, willing-
threw the nations, victorious and de-
ly or unwillingly, in a position to con-
feated alike, into an abyss of agony.
trol not only the Far East but the
If the nations fight with all the weapons
whole world. Yet some people insist
of advanced civilization, it is certain:
on having it take part in the war in
that all will be involved in common
deflance of this great'opportunity.
ruin. Even the victors will be unable
It is true that Japanese entry into
to escape this fate, as may be seen!
an European war might be supported
in the present plight of Britain and
with good reason, but it also is true
France, now premsed so hard by Ger-
that there is absolutely no need for it
many, the wretched loser, only 20 years
to involve itself in common ruin with
after the war.
the Powers of Europe. No one who
Losses to Be Grester
truly loves his country should allow it
to select the wrong course. Merely by
Remarkable progress in the manu-
staying out of the next world war as
facture of armaments has been made
a neutral, Japan easily can earn for
since the war, forecasting the extreme-
itself the rank with the United States
ly destructive anfa cruel nature of the
of one of the two most powerful and
next conflict, which may end only
richest of nations. But to become in-
with the collapse of all civilized na-
velved in it, which would mean only
tlons. Acsording to reliable statistics,
ruin, whether it wins or loses, would
the casualties of all the belligerents in
be an utter absurdity.
the World War, ineluding civilians.
totaled ,es0,s0, and the war -
ia estimated at come r0s0,000,00,00 at
the eurrent exchengse rate, more then
The cests of the next war, human
