894.404 Social Matters., Japan, Religion. Church., August 24, 1940 - November 21, 1944 (File 1463)
ID: 894.404-1463   Pages: 127   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.404-social-matters-japan-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Movement against foreign missionaries, beginning in early
August, attributed to specified attitude on part of Japan-
ese military. Bishop Heaslett of opinion that this marks
the end of missionary activities in Japan.
Sets forth-,
894.404/23
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel /741: 2pm
(Despatoh, telegram, instruotion, letter, eta.)
From
DatedAug.24.1940
Japan (Grew)
To
File No. 394.0063/1
WTING OPFICE 1—1840
FRG.
33

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
Divisionof
FAR EASTEANAREAIRS
AUG 3 1 1940
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Department of State
MA
Tehran
FROM
This telegram must bE closely
Dated July 8, 1940
paraphrased beforE being
communicated to anyonE. (A)
Rec'd 11:37 a.m.
Seoretary of State
DEPARTMENTOESTATE
Washington
A0G9 1940
GP)-
DIVISION OF
154, Ju1y 8, 9 a.m.
NEAH
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
My dEespatch number 1843, May 29th.
In disoussing thE matter with a member of thE
894.404/24
JapanEsE LEgation I was told that in recent yEars
many JapanEsE had madE a sErious study of thE MohammEdan
religion becausE they realized its importancE in Asia.
ThE JapanesE Government Encouraged this and used such
F
students in WEstern China to counteract Soviet
influencE among thE Moslem ChinesE. Tehran and
Kabul werE also considered important posts from which
to watoh thE attitudE of thE Mohammedans in Russian
SEP 4 - 1940
FILED
Central Asia toward thE Soviet regimE.
7/8
Nercan eh lore mr a p
ENGERT
GW
8.29
Desp, 1843 has not bem reid so far.
F/FG
Lach mo.1835.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.90)
LEGATION OF THE
E
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CI
Tehran, May 29, 1940.
No. 1843.
Subject: Conversion to Islam of a Member of the
Japanese Legation.
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
F.'u
M1 28
(.1)
SEPT
1940
DIVISION OF
di
NEAR FASTAATRS
1940 SEP
Dens'artor te
894.404/25
10 uDE 101
COMMERCIAL AFTAIRS
SP 19
DIVIS
894.
Ch
Tokpo
701.
The Honorable
9/14/4
40
The Secretary of State,
SEP 1 7 1940
Washington.
an
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to report that a mild sensation
was caused in the local diplomatic corps when it became
known that a member of the starf of the Japanese Lega-
tion in Tehran had embrased the Mohamedan faith.
The convert is a young Attaehé, Mr. Keiitehi
Kakassaki, whe came here as a language ofricer seme three
years ago. The Japamese Minister tells me that Mr.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
Kawassaki is a very intelligent man who studied philosophy
at the university of Tokyo before he came out here. He
has learned to read and speak Persian quite fluently, be-
sides knowing English, French and German. The Minister
feels convinced that there was no undue influenee and that
Mr. Kawassaki quite sincerely prerers Islam to Buddhism,
his former religion.
The ETTELAaT or May 25, 1940, published a pioture of
Mr. Kawassaki, and under it printed the following declaration
by the convert:
"The undersigned, Keiitchi Kawassaki, son of Sai
Shin of Tokyo, Attaché of the Japanese Legation, ex-
amined for some time the faiths and religions of the
world, and after a great deal of research and deliber-
ation I was convinced of the justice or the honorable
religion of Islam. I have therefore gladly aecepted
the sacred Islamic faith, have abandoned my former
faith as Buddhist, and have given the two testimonies
in the presence of Mr. Shariat Sangalaji. I have been
honored to call myself Abdollah. From this day I am
a Moslem, and I beg the Moslems of the world to con-
sider me as their brother.
Keiitchi Kawassak1 (Abdollah)."
The "two testimonies" referred to in the above pro-
fession of faith are the well-known Mohamedan tenets, vis.
"There is no god but Allah. Mohamed is the apostle or
God."
Respectfully yours,
chargé a' Arraires1.
File No. 701.1
In triplieats.
Gepy fer tihe Amerieae Mmbassy, Tekye, attached.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Christian organizations in Japan.
Meeting of fifty representatives of various - to discuss
reform movements. The amalgamation of various sects
into one organization w:s decided upon to conform with
the new national structures. Catholic Church was not
represented.
894.404/26
jb
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...Tel..#765.5.pm
(Despatoh, telegram, iastruotion, letter, eto.)
From
DatedAugust 30. 1940
Japan.(Grew)
To
File No.
SEE 394.0063/2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
F=
AS
PLAIN
Tokyo via Shanghai & N.R.
Dated August 30, 1940
Rec'd 7:02 a.m., 31st
Secretary of State,
Washington.
76
X
765, August 30, 5 p.m.
CO
Press reports meeting yesterday fifty representa
tives various Christian organizations Japan to discuss
t
reform Christian churches. Abe, President Federation
No
Christian churches Japan presided. After meeting two and
half hours dEcided Christian churches Japan adopted policy
614,
conformable new national structures. Various sEcts to
amalgamate one organization. Foreign assistance influence
to bE Eradicated. Meeting scheduled SEptember two disouss
inter alia Christian missionary activity Manchukuo, China.
Roman Catholic organizations reported not represented.
Sent Department via Shanghai. Shanghai please repeat
Chungking, Priping.
GREW
DDM

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT W****The discrepancy between the official Japanese belief
and the Christian ideal has not emcaped the notice of
the Japanese authorities, and as a result they have de-
voted themselves to the supervision of Christianity with
such thoroughness that there is some question whether or
not it can survive in Japan and still maintain its iden-
tity as Christiant***."
894.404/27
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatch So. 654 (Enclosure to)
(Despatoh, telegram, tmstraotiom, letter, eta.)
Dated ......
.....May..29,1940
From
Iokahama (Boyee)
File No. 1l.lll.Deami,Renaha
. 8. 0   1-1840

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.92)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Legality of classifying Nichiren Buddhist priests as
ministers of religion in view of the political nature
of their teachings. Advisory opinion requested on-
894.404/28
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatch..654
(Despalch, telegram, iastruction, letter, eta.)
Dated
May..29.1940
AH
File No.
.8ll.1ll.Usami..Rensha
U. S. G0NT PRN  1-1840

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Movement against all Christain Churches, including Japanese.
Meeting scheduled, tomorrow, for the denouncing of presence
of Christian Churches in the country.
894.404/
2
6
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #868; 2pm
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Sept 20, 1940
From
Japan (Grew)
Dated
To
394.0063/6
File No.
B. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPPICE 1—1B40
FRG.
55

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Union of Christian Churches in Japan.
Reports on movement for - for tne purpose
of moulding them into the "new structure"
plan of totelitarianism.
894.404/30
gs;ah
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#5092
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, stc.)
Dated
Oct.28..1940
From
Japan
79
(Grew)
File No.
394.0063/9
894.4(4-30
1-1840

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
9 preminent Japasese leaders, Caristias astivity.
Japes, will apply fer temporary visiters visas fer
purpese of comsultation with Amerisan Christsan
894.404/31
werkers fer meams preserving peace betweem Japas
and U.S.
3
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Telegramt
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Dated
Mareh.11.194.
From
Takre (Slavens)
File No.
811.111 Ben1mmirant 94/eT
1-1840

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
my B abe-
Hand( torme by
 Wai J
from AbWarnchui
THE CHURCH
CHPIST IN JAPAN
64
DCK
The organization of "The hurch of Christ in Japan" is another important step
in the progress for Ciristian unity throughout the world. It is a union of all the
Protestant Christiars in Janen, except the Episcopalians and the Seventh Day Ad-
ventists. fhe hpiscopali'ns, however, are working in close cooperation with the
new united Church. This union is an achievement of vast significance to the Ecu-
menical Church, as well as to the Christian cause in Japan.
Historical Background
This movement for Church Union in Jepan roots back into the far past. The
ecrliest of the pioneer missionaries set their faces against the attempt to trans-
894.404/32
lart western denoninetionalism to Japan's shores. However, their dream was not
renlized. Counter-counsels prevailed and churches cast in the denominational
mould were planted.
In the early developmert of the Jennuese Fueshvterian and Congregational
communions there wes a movement lootin towerd a union of these two ma jor denomina-
tiors. Tris movement gathered much momentum, bu: just when it was or he point of
realization it was shtttered by the clash of rival opinions.
In the 1?20's a proun of leading laymen end clergymer launched an organization
which put on an a gressive and continuons campein to make the Protestant churches
union-minded. This organization has insistently and persistantly held up tho ideal
of a united Protestant front in Japan.
The Kingdom of God Movement and the United Evangelistic campaigns, which,
AUG 80 1941
during the past ten years and more have mobilized tle Christian forces in the in-
FILED
terest of nationwide evangolism, have furnished an opportunity for inter-faith
followship, and heve done much to create a new sense of Christian solidarity.
In order to capitalize and orystallize the growing interest in union, the
National Christian Council of Japan, ten years ago, appointed a Standing Committee
on Church Union. For a decade this Committec made an intensive study of this whole
problem and drew up a tentative basis for union.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Thcn, in 1938, the National Christian Council convened an All-Japan Christian
Conference for the definite purpose of considering the matter of estatlishing a
united Church. This conference, by a unanimous vote, approved church union in prin-
ciple and took steps to set up a Commission on Church Urion composed of officially
aprointed representatives of the various denominations.
Contributory Factors
In l939 the government passed a Religious Bodies law. This legislation deals
nuroly vith administrative matters as betveer ihe government ard religious organi-
zations and in no way infringes o the freedom of religious belief guaranteed by
the Imperial Constitution. This law, for the first time in the history of the
( ristiar. Movement in Japan, gave Christianity a legal status and put it on the
statute books as ur irdigenous religion of the Empire. This proved an impetus to
the Christian Church to send its rootu deeper into its native soil and to orientate
itself more fully us an integral part of thc nation's life.
During the summer of 1940, far-reaching structural changes were introduced
into the domestic life of Japan. This proved a turning point in many phasos of
the nation's lif. In the realm of thouht, in politics, in industry ard in the
cultural world there was a concerted movemert to echieve national integration and
solidarity.
This reacted upen the Christian community, stimulated the latent urge for
Church union and greatly augmented the tempo of tho movoment to achieve Christian
unity.
The Japunese Christian leaders saw tonduncies and trends in connection with
this internal upheaval which convinced them that in order to hold its own in tho
life of the nation and givu an effective witness, the Church should speed up its
offort to build a united front and achicve Christian solidarity.
This crisis-situation brou ht to a head the question of church union. On
the 17th of Octobor, 1940, at a groat Mass Meeting, attended by twenty-five thousand
Protestant Christians, it was definitely decided to establish a united Church.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3-
A Commission on Churoh Union, composed of eighty members, representing forty-two
large and small denominations and Christien bodies, was set up. This commission
spent six months in contiruous study, exploring every phase of this complicated
problem.
Organizational Set-up
Out of thet intensive study has emerged "The Church of Christ in Japan". In
orier to allow time for necessary adjust ents, elever brarches or sections, com-
osed of the existing major denominutions, will temporarily exist within the frame-
ork of the united Church.
Branch numher one will consist of the Jupan Presbyterien and Reformed Churches.
11
two, tle Japan  ethodist I piscopal unc methodist Protestant
Churches.
11
tnree, the Jupan Congregutional-Christian, United Brethren,
Evangelical and Disciples Churches.
four, the Japan Baptist Church.
11
five, the Japan Lutheran Church.
11
six, the Japanese Holiness Church (one wing).
11
11
seven, the Evangelistic Church.
11
11
eight, Free Methodist, Nazarene, Ientecostal and Alliance
Churches.
11
nine, the Japanese Holiness Church (one wing).
1"
11
ten, the Japanese Independent Church.
eleven, the Selvation Corps Church (tentative).
The denominationel nrmes, lowever, will disaprear. These eleven groupings
will be referred to as branch number ore, branch nurber tvo, branch number three of
The Church of Christ in Japan and not as the Fresbyterian branch, Methodist branoh,
Congregational branch, eto.
"The Church of Christ in Japan" is an organizational urit. It has one name.
It is one body. It has one General Conference. It has one creed. It has one head.
The head of "The Church of Christ in Japan" is elected by the General Conference.
He will represent the Churoh in its relations to the government and to the general
publio but he is directly responsible to the General Conference. His term of office

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
will be for two years. He is, however, eligible for re-election.
The Empire will be divided into fifteen ecclesiastical Districts, or Regional
Conferences. These Regional Conferences will elect the three hundred delegates to
the General Conference.
This Church will function throurh nine denartments:
General Affeirs
Finance
Home lissions
Foreign Missions
Religious Education
Women's Work
Socisl elfare
Publiching department
Fension
11
In the construction of the organizational framework of this new Church, and
in the formulation of its creed, the Commission on Church Urion has been absolutely
free from outside interference and pressure.
Lurinf the negotiations connected with: the establishment of the united Church,
various mergers took place within the forty-two different negotieting bodies, with
the result that their number was reduced to twenty-eight. These twenty-eight were
further reduced to the eleven "branches", or "sections", which constitute the newly
established "Church of Christ in Japan".
The Creed
In its creedal commitments, the united Church maintains the traditional em-
phasis and basis of Universal Christiandom by making the Old and New Testaments its
standard of faith and practice, and placing the historic Apostles' Creed at the
center of its Confession of Faith.
In setting forth the fundamentals of its faith, "The Church of Christ in
Japan" affirms:
"This Church accepts the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as its
basic standard of faith and conduct.
"In conformity with the Apostles' Creed and in harmony with the confessions of

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
- 5 -
faith of the Tnitin churches, we desirnate the following as the prime essentiels:
"The Triune God -- Father, Sor und Holy Spirit, as revealed in the Sacred
Scripturen, for ives sin, justifies, senctiries and erdows with eternal life, all
who believe in he at orerent of C rist, he or, who died for the sins of the world
and rosein.
"The Curch is the body, in which those who have been called by grace, worship
obreryo tis secred or inences of haptist and the Lord's Supper, proclaim the Gospel
 in o t for the co in of the Lor i."
The motivating urge bck of this movement for Church Union has not been an
attr nnt to contorm to environmental influences and n'tional trends. The master
otive hes bee  desire to unify the evang listic program of the Christiar Church
u  throu h a ore a greasive and more effective vitness to its faith make the
(urch  dymamic force in shurin: the nation's life accerdinp to Christiac ideals.
Moreover, it i. u. e rnest endeavor to o unity und vitalize the Christian
Church in Jap that it nay take its place as an integral und integrated unit in
tle bcumenical move.  nt nd erable it 'o make its lorrest possible contribution
toward the buildia of a world C' ristian civilizat ion.
T109
5/9/41

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STA
1907 N. Street,
T11941
September 29, 1941
DIVIS ONO
Dear Friends:
COMMUNICATION
It will be a year since the things began to stir m the Christian
movement in Japan. A great many changes have occurred. The Religions Control Law
has gone into effect. This law provides no place for the missionary. Due to a
ruling that no denomination with less than 50 self-supporting churches would be
recognized and to pressure on the part of the government, a strong movement for
union was started. Some 35 denominations have formed a union. They will give up
their denominational name and be numbered instead.
Tomita Metsuru, a Presbyterian, has been selected to represent the
group before the government. Among the younger Fresbyterian ministers there was
some opposition to the union.
At first the government did not look with favor on the creed - the
894.404/33
Apostles' Creed - for they said it was too western but later have yielded to it.
The government wishes to maintain that the Emperor is supreme.
This Protestant union group has not yet been recognized by the
government, while the Roman Catholics - due no doubt to their relations to Italy
have been recognized. The Episcopal group did not go into the union and have not
been recognized.
Some 150 missionaries are still in Japan though they have been re-
peatedly advised by the State Department to movc out. A few members of Parliament
have gotten interested in the missionaries and while entertaining them ask the
reasons for many others leaving!!
In Kagawa Province the work gocs on though two evangelists have
been discharged by the native church as they have taken over. This may be due to
lack of funds. Six mission churches have bucome self-supporting. The work at the
leper island goes on. Miyouchi is making regular trips to the island.
Conditions are going from bad to worse. Clothcs are scarce, food
0
is on rations, there is some discontent with the army. Still it is not very vocal.
C
FILED
Internationally, Japan is on the fence at heart, but still tied up with the Axis.
1
221941
It may be well for the President of the U.S. to deal directly with the Emperor. It
might remind the Japanese that the Emperor is of earthly origin.
We are about to finish an eight months' period of work with the
Church of the Pilgrims in Washington. We are now casting about for another place
of servicc. We are not taking on any regular work as we want to be ready to return
to Japan as soon as the way opens up.
Mr. and Mrs. Luben (Edith Erickson) arc in Kalamazoo, Michigan,
where Mr. Luben will be acting secretary for the Mission Board of the Reformed Church.
Mr. and Mrs. Alex Reid are in Hamilton, Oritario, but Alex has joined the Canadian
EPS/LD
Navy and will be subject to orders. Little Lois has come into their home.
3
Won't you pray for Japan that the army be dislodged from its con-
trol? Pray that the Church will not compromise. Pray for an early day when the
work may be taken up again.
May God bless and keep you all.
Sincerely yours
S. M. Erickson
1元l.
5

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
1907 N. Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.
September 29, 1941
My dear Friends:
It has been a long time since I wrote. I think it must have been
just after our arrival in Washington in March. We have had a very busy and happy
sojourn here, so crowded that I fear I have neglected some of you shamefully. But
you have been in my thoughts as always, and I hope you will be lenient and under-
standing.
We are beginning to feel more at home in our own country, and no
longer expect to buy tickets on the street cars, or follow other unknown (to you)
customs. Menu cards at restaurants do not now confuse us, as we have been taking
our meals out all these months. And we no longer gasp at the extravagance and waste
we see all about us. Our first impulse to send back to Japan all the paper sacks
and strong string that we lay hold of in such abundance has been all but forgotten,
and only occasionally do our hearts contract with pain as we suddenly recall the
privations that our dear friends over there are suffering. But we do thank God
always for the bountiful mercies that He has poured out upon America, and pray Him
that we may be worthy of them.
Dr. Erickson stayed in Washington all summer, and I was here except
for a brief visit to Massanetta and to the old family home in southwest Virginia.
We did not find the heat as t rying as we were led to expect, and are both in good
shape. I have been out for some deputation work, and have quite a few dates ahead.
Our children who were in Japan have improved very much in health,
and Barnard is taking up work as Assistant Secretary of Foreign Missions for the
Dutch Reformed Church. They are to live in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Alex Reid, our
other son-in-law, has just joined the Canadian Navy. His experience as a marine
engineer made him feel that he was really needed at this time. Elinor writes that
she has determined to make the best of it, and I am trying to be as brave as she.
Our engagement here in Washington will be at an end in November,
and we are not sure what we shall do then. If any of you have any suggestions to
make, they would be very welcome. We feel that our stay here has been greatly
blessed, and are grateful for the opportunities we have had. And we are very sure
that the way will open up somewhare else, and that God will send us just where He
wants us to be. But perhaps He will use some one of you to guide us into His path.
A call has come for me to go to see a sick girl at the hospital,
so I shall not say any more. We are planning, of course, to go back to Japan as
soon as the way is open. But there scems very little prospect of that for a long
time.
Remember that we love you, cven though we may not write as often
as we wish we could.
Faithfully yours,
Lois J. Erickson

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.94)
MR. HUHABECK
1942
DCR
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTE
February 27, 1942
Attaohed is a memorandum of statements
8
made by Mr. Boude C. Moore, an American mis-
CC
sionary in Japan during the past seventeen
4.
years, with regard to recent developments 1n
the Shinto religion.
4C4/
Mr. Moore, who was born and brought up
1n Japan, speaks and reads Japanese well and
attended olasses in Shinto at the Imperial
University of Tokyo during the year ending
A
April 194l. According to Mr. Moore he was
the only non-Japanese taking the courses and
the professors, who are among the best, in no
way altered their lectures because of his
presence.
Some of the statements made by Mr. Moore
with regard to Shinto are difficult to under-
stand but Mr. Moore says that the Japanese
response to allegatlons of obscurity 1s that
the Western mind 1s unable to grasp the matter.
Mr. Moore states that he intends within
the next few months to go over his notes taken
in class and to write informally and at some
length with regard to the material covred in
the courses which he took. He said that he
T
will supply me with a copy of whateverche 
S
writes.
Sam  a opy 7  
correation and elanfication.
FE:SaHyDury:MHP

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
DCR
fhe
February 26,1942
STATEMENTS MADE BY MR. BOUDE C. MOORE WITH REGARD
TO RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SHINTO RELIGION
leaders have felt that Shinto has lacked two basio concepts
which Christianity has always stressed as important. Be-
cause of this lack, Shinto leaders have felt that their
religion was regarded as an inferior or inoomplete religion.
These two concepts are that of creation of the universe and
that of salvation.
The Shinto religion has had the tradition that "all
things" were oreated by Izanag1 no Mikoto (male) and
Izanami no Mikoto (female), the parents of Amaterasu-O-Mi-
Kami, the Sun Goddess, and that the Sun Goddess' grandchild,
Amatsu Hiko Hiko Ho no Ninigi no Mikoto, was the founder
and creator of Japan. Shinto leaders have felt, however,
that their religion has dealt very inadequately with the
question of the creation of the universe whereas
Christianity's explanation of creation is much more adequate,
as it recounts the creation of the universe by a single
areating god. To meet this lack, Shinto leaders have in
recent times borrowed bodily from the Christian doctrine
M
the 1dea of a single creator and have embodied it in the
Shinto faith; that is, the idea of a single creator creating
5
the sun
2

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the sun and the stars and the rest of the universe is
taken almost verbatim from Christian faith and dootrine.
This creator of the universe now evolved in Shinto is
Amatsu Hiko Hiko Ho no Ninigi no Mikoto, the grandohild of
the Bun Goddess, who previously had been regarded as the
oreator of Japan only.
According to the Kokutai no Hongi, published by the
Ministry of Education, the first gods were Ameno Minakanushi
no Kami, Takami Mimusubi no Kami, and Kami Musubi no Kami,
these three gods being one and hiding their bodies. Then
comes Kuni no Tokotachi no Mikoto, followed by Izanagi and
Izanami mentioned above as the creators of "all things".
With this background, the Shinto leaders of today are trying
to create a creator. You can see the problem. They call
the creating god Amatsu no Kami or Yui Itsu no Kami or
Amaterasu or Ninigi, as is most convenient at the moment.
However, they arrive at the need of making the Spirit "one":
One God, One Spirit and One Nation with the same Spirit
as that of the Gods. Thus any of the above gods or the
present Emperor is god, Creator and Zettai no Kami
(Absolute God) or Makoto no Kami (True God). And also,
of course, every Japanese is a part of that same Spirit.
The Japanese found difficulty in this development of
Shinto as the Japanese language does not contain a word
•quivalent to our word "person". In Christian thought God
1s spoken

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
●-3
is spoken of as a Person. The Japanese have no such term
nor, in fact, concept. Therefore, of course, they cannot
think of God as a Person. Thus he becomes a kind of in-
definite spirit which can be anything which the mind of
man oan devise at the moment. One attempt to overoome this
difficulty has been to describe the creating god as Zettai
no Kami (Absolute God). This attribute of absoluteness was
taken from Christianity. This raised the question of at-
tributes. As the Japanese creating god 1s not a person he
can have no attributes as such. However, he 1s referred to
as Zettai no Kam1, Absolute God, and absolutenese 1s an at-
tribute, but the Japanese would be at a loss to explain this
matter in a way which would make sense to us. This God
could have other attributes and in course of time no doubt
will have them. But the fact of the matter is that the
Japanese have not yet given him other attributes.
With regard to the question of salvation by way of the
cross, the Japanese have conceived it to be a question of
the forgiveness of or absolution from sin. Having no paral-
lel to the cross, the Japanese have taken their anolent
rite of purification and have elaborated and re-emphasized
it in order that it might, in some measure, take the place
of the forgiveness of sin. It is a well-known faot that
the Japanese Emperor spends a large part of his time
fulfilling

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
fulfilling the functions of the High Priest of Japan and a
great part of those rituals is the ritual of purifioation
for the nation: the Emperor purifies himself and thereby
purifies the nation.
The developments mentioned above are the most out-
standing developments of recent times in Shinto theology.
It should be added, however, that they have not yet per-
meated into the belief or understanding of the common Shinto
believer. They are being taught, however, by the highest
authorities in Shinto schools and government universities
at the present time.
With regard to the question whether the shrine is a
religious symbol and the ritual at the shrine is an act of
religion or not, the only statements that they are not
religious come from petty government officials, and sup-
porting statements cannot be found in the teachings of the
highest authorities on Shinto in Japan. There are 1lo,000
shrines whioh have been classified as national shrines or
state shrines at which, according to some Japanese, there
are only patriotic ceremonies. There are, of course,
priests in attendance at these shrines. However, there are
only thirty Uji, or so-called places of worship, which came
into being because of demand for places where weddings and
funerals could be conducted. This indicates that the vast
majority

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
majority of shrines are not places for the convenience of
ceremonies of a civil character but are religious places.
Dr. Genchi Kato, the foremost Japanese authority on
Shinto, has stated in an article on the essence of Shinto,
that Shinto may be divided into two, three, or four parts
or sections but they all remain Shinto. He states that
Shinto 1s like the composite of three angles of a triangle
where, although there are three distinct angles, the total
always equals l80 degrees and by no amount of argument or
imagination can one ever arrive at the figure 179 or 181,
thus showing that Shinto is a unit and can never be anything
else but Shinto. According to Dr. Kato, there are various
seotions and classifications in Shinto but no one seotion
can be robbed of its essenoe, which is the vital life of
Shinto, synonymous with the vital living spirit of Japan.
Many eminent authors have arrived at the point where they
state that through creation and through the living spirit
of Japan every Japanese must be and is a Shintoist and every
Shintoist must be and is a Japanese. These authors claim
that the Shinto religion and the Japanese life, both national
and personal, oannot be separated and cannot be regarded
as separate entities or units. They insist that there is
complete unity, one indivisible Shinto, one Japanese nation,
and one Japanese life flowing through each Japanese.
It 1s

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
-6
It is Mr. Moore's thorough conviction that the Shinto
religion is one of the most powerful, one of the best
organized, and one of the most aggressive and progressive
religions in the world; that, far from being a sporadic
outgrowth of practices and beliefs as is found in Communism,
say, or in Nazism or Fascism, Shinto is far more stable and
well founded; and that after those "1sms" and their leaders
have been lost in the past Shinto will still be taught,
believed in, and propagated, a remnant of the Japanese
Empire.
T:BaDary:HEP

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Religion-Japan. Copy of despatch prepared by Consul Quarton
of Ke1je concerning a pamphlet entitled "THE GREAT BHINTO
PURIFICATION RITUAL AND THE DIVINE MISSION IN NIPPON
a Prophesy of the Dawn of a New Age by Professor Chikao
Fujisawa.
894.404/
rp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Communication #-
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Japan (Grow on the GRIPSHOLM)
Dated
Aug.22,1942
To
894.404
File No.
894.00/1160

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
25 (Tittmann)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vatican City, Uctober 2, 1942.
Subject: Situation of Roman Catholic and
Other Religions in Japan
51
E2
Cu
H八B
CC
CONFIDENTIAL
894.404/36
-10011
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to submit the followin: sub-
stance of a report from an authoritative non-eccles-
iastical source in Tokyo on the current situation of
the Roman Catholic end other religions in Japan which
was received recently by a colleague in the Vatican
diplomatic corps.
In Korea, the two French Apostolic Vicars at
Seul and Taiku have resigned. One has been succeeded
by a Japanese and the other presumably by a Korean
"Apostolic Administrator." The German Vicar Apostolic
at Heijo is also expected to resign shortly.
All foreigners in Japan may be arrested and their
property confiscated. This measure has already been
applied to Belgian and Canadian priests. In all semi-
naries, including those of foreign missions, the direc-
tion must be Japanese. In all convents, foreign girls
must be taught in separate classes, so that Japanese
PS/VMC
girls may not come into contact with them. The Japanese
insist that some of the Imperial forms of worship be
introduced into Catholic services and the police forbid
anything that is deemed contrary to the official creed.
As to the future, the missionaries fear that the native
clergy will be incapable of opposing successfully the
imposition

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
imposition by the State of a national religion.
The Protestants are very weak, being unable to
count on help from the outside. They are already show-
ing signs of Buddhist influence in their rites and spir-
itual guidance. The Orthodox Church is even more helpless
and many of the sincerely faithful are leaving it.
The Apostolic Delegate in Tokyo is being criticised
for iving in too readily to Japanese demands. In the
opinion of the author of the report this is not quite
fair. The Delegate, it seems, has no illusions, but is
trying in every way to save religious teaching in its
integrity even after the departure of the missionaries,
and to postpone the day when the Catholic Church will
cease to exist and become Japanese. If the Delegate
were to act otherwise, the author believes there would
be immediate schismetic rupture with the Roman Church.
When the foregoin,: report was brought to the atten-
tion of the Cardinal Secretary of State the other day
he was aslked whether it did not strike him as rather
gloomy. He replied in the affirmative, but added that
the situation of the Church in certain European coun-
tries was causin the Ioly See even more anxiety.
Respectfully yours,
Harke H. TiMm ann
Harold H. Tittmann
American Chargé d'Affaires
In quadruplicate to Department
File 840.4 - Japan
HHT/nf

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.91)
3tmuary 6, 1940
AIR MAIL
.190
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Chungking.
The Seeretary of State encloses for the informe-
tion of the Anerican Ambassador a copy of a memorandum
894.404
prepared in the Division of Far Eastern Affairs com-
894.404/37
menting upon a Japanese radio broadeast in regard to
an emalgamation of Japanese Protestant churohes.
Enelesure;
Memerasdum Gated
Dooember 23, 1942.
aS

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
MR.HRNBECK
ADVISER
DEC 28 1942
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 23, 1942
Copy sent to
THE CHURGH OF O RIST IN JAPAN
Department of State
According to a Japanese broadcast monitored by the Fcc,
almost all the Protestant denominations in Japan were merged
on November 24, 1942 into one organization named the CHURCH
SCR
OF CHRIST IN JAPAN. This step dissolved the eleven sub-
divisions of the Church set up about a year ago on a pro-
visional basis along former denominational lines. If the
prognostioations of observers in Japan at that time were
correct, the new merger has done away with the old denomi-
national distinctions, and if any new sub-divisions have
been made they are along geographical or regional lines.
8
The Anglioan-Episcopal Church had previously managed
894.404/37
to remain aloof from the new Church, but the recent broad-
cast mentioned above stated that the "major portion" of
that group was included in the new organization. Although
this statement is not clear, it is interpreted to mean that
official pressure brought most of the Anglicans and Episco-
palians into line. Nothing is known of the fate of the
smaller groups which could not see their way to join the
amalgamation. These would be, in addition to the remainder
of the Episcopalians, the Seventh Day Advantists, the Greek
Orthodox Church and a few other small groups. If Japanese
legislation and the pronouncements of the Religions Bureau
of the Eduoation ministry are followed, these organizations
will not receive official recognition as "kyodan" (one form
of juridical person under Japanese law) and will be forood
to suspend activities.
It will be reoalled that the Roman Catholic Churoh has
for a number of years been able to maintain good relations
with the Japanese Government. It was reported by the former
Embassy at Tokyo (despatch no. 5992 of November 26, 1941)
that the Catholio Churoh received formal recognition as a
separate "kyodan" on May 3, 1941.
The final creation of the Protestant CHURCH OF CHRIST
P
IN JAPAn as another "kyodan" is the culminating step in a
S
long process which was reported to the Department by the 
FILED
/JW
former Embassy at Tokyo from time to time. In many ways it

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
is the natural result of factors largely unrelated to the war
or to Japan's growing nationalism during the past ten years.
Soon after the Restoration of 1868 a great many mission-
aries of various denominations, mostly Americans, went to
Japan and set about propagating their particular brands of
Christianity. It was confusing to the Japanese to discover
that the denominations differed seriously in creed and theo-
logy, especially as the historic and traditional backgrounds
of these differences were meaningless to them. For this
reason alone there has existed for several decades a group
of Japanese Protestants working toward a unified Japanese
Protestant Church.
Another factor in this tendency to lean away from the
parent organizations in the United States has been the fact
that many Christian institutions in Japan, whether evangeli-
cal, educational, or medical, had passed through the first
phase of tutelage by the missionaries and were standing on
their own feet, both spiritually and financially. This is
not true of ali of them, of course, but nevertheless the ten-
denoy has existed for many years for the mission boards in
the United States to loosen their control and extend less
financial assistance. Furthermore, there nas been a tendency
to send fewer missionaries, and one notable feature of the
missionary effort in Japan in the past few years has been the
relatively small number of young men and women going out to
the field.
It should also be remembered that the Japanese as a race
are not deeply religious or philosophical, that for centuries
they have been taught to be amenable to official suggestion
and control, and that even to the most ardent of Japanese
Christians (with but few exceptions) there has been no repug-
nance to "shrine worship". To them this has had no more
significance than the salute to the Flag. or the laying of
a wreath at the Tombof the Unknown Soldier would have to us.
Thus, although there has been opposition in Japan to
the religious legislation of the past few years, such oppo-
sition has not been extensive or artioulate. Taken as a
whole, the Japanese Protestants have not been strongly
antagonistio to the formation of a native Churoh and some
groups have even weloomed it. The greatest diffioulty was
experienced in turning over to the Japanese the property
held in the name of Amerioan mission boards.
Although

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Although the new CHURCH OF CHRIST IN JAPAN has developed
partly as the result of what may be called natural causes,
considerable concern is being felt in missionary ciroles
over the possibility that the Church may become so de-
Christianized as to lose all or almost all of the distinot-
ive features which separated it from other religions. This
development will not be brought about by the Japanese church-
men themselves, but by the Japanese Government, operating
through the Religions Bureau of the Department of Education.
It is known that the officials were scrutinizing the creeds
of the various denominations and were carefully going through
the Bible line by line with a view to deleting everything
not compatible with Japanese policy. No information has
transpired as to how far this process has advanced, but the
general psychological tone of Japanese broadcasts on religious
and educational matters would seem to indicate that the
Christians are capitulating all along the line. The probabil-
ities are that if the present trend continues, the Protestant
Church in Japan will be barely recognizable when the war is
over and American missionaries are once more permitted to
visit Japan.
FE:Bonninghoff:ALm

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
893.40438
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Materials on Problems of State and Church in Far East.
Encloses copy of Dr. M.S. Bates's memorandum on Shinto -.
894.404/38
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Letter
(Despatoh, telegram, instruotion, letter, eta.)
From
Dated January.16,.1943
Timparlay.H.J.
Tσ-
File No. ....894.404/38

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
Mu
HMB
14MH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 21, 1943
Reference underlying copy of a memo-
randum entitled "Materials on Problems of
State and Church 1n the Far East" written
by Mr. M. S. Bates, former missionary at
Nanking. The memorandum was evidently
written prior to the outbreak of war
between the United States and Japan, but
not very long before.
This 1s a well written and interesting
report, dealing in large part with Shinto
and the Japanese attitude toward Christianity.
The memoramdum is well worth reading in full.
However, there follows a summary:
Section I, comprising the first two
pages, relates to church questions in Free
China. Mr. Bates'conclusion 1s thet "there
is little present anxiety about the rela-
tions of Church and State in China...".
Section II, which comprises the bulk
of the report, relates to Japan. The all
pervasiveness of totalitarian loyalty
inspired by Shinto among all Japaneee is
indicated. There is discussion as to the
differences between State Shinto and sect
Shinto and evidence is given of the reli-
gious aspect of State Shinto although "in
the main, Japanese Christians have come
to accept the administrative definition
of

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
of State Shinto as non-religious...".
Mr. Bates quotes a Japanese scholar as
writing "The Emperor is incarnate Deity,
and occupies in Japanese faith the pos1-
tion whioh Jehovah occupied in Judaism".
Mr. Bates mentions "the subtle yet funda-
mental tie between religion and patriotism,
nowhere stronger than in Japan" and quotes
a description the service at the Yasukun1
Shrine by an expert in Japanese religion
to the effect that the spirits of the
dead enshrined there are"deified".
Subsection 3 of Section II diecusses
the Imperial Rescript on Education (pages 6
to 9) and indicates how education 1s being
used in Japan to imolant Shintoism. In
this connection a Shinto hymn is quoted
in which the verse occurs "Hereafter Japan
shall command foreign powers, Mark it well,
all of you!". In the National Readers for
Elementary Schools appears a poem which
reads in part "Our seventy million citizens
Look up to the Emperor even as to God".
Subsection 4 of Section II (peges 9-10)
gives examples of how Japanese Christians
are influenced by Shintoism and Government
propaganda. Mr. Bates cites an instance
in 1937 when a pastor in one of the leading
Christian denominations said that the
"doctrine

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
"dootrine of the Trinity was not suitable
for Japan, where Four Persons should be
reoognized, with the Emperor first in
honor". Members of patriotic societies
regarded this statement as an insult to
the Emperor.
Subsection 5 of Section II relates to
the control of religions under the Religious
Aot of 1939. Mr. Bates indicates that there
is no persecution of Chritians or Christian
organizations as such but that any persons
or organizations which hold beliefs or
indulge in activities which do not thoroughly
conform to the ideals of Government Shintoism
are apt to be made to suffer by the Japanese
bureaucracy.
Subsection 6 of Section II describes
some of the difficulties and mental con-
fusion which Japanese Christians have as
a result of the war. He cuotes one Japanese
Christian as urging that the Christian ideal
be upheld so that the new order in east Asia
may become synonymous with the idealiem of
the Kingdom of God on earth.
Section III, in which Mr. Bates
discusses religion in Japanese-occupied
areas, M m states that "Seldom, if
ever, are Christians involved as such in
the harsh, crude net of the police" but
that "the general terms of 'communism'
(including even the mildest of 'social
study

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
study groups' and of labor organizations),
of 'liberalism, of disrespect to the Imperial
Household, of 'dangerous thoughts', of words
contrary to the interests of the State,
have brought in many a Christian along with
others".
In speaking of Taiwan, Mr. Bates states
that the Chinese language has been elimated
from publication and from use as a tool of
education, that pressure upon the churches
to use the Japanese language hms already hin-
dered worship, and that Chinese "idols" are
forbidden while the Shinto "godshelf" 18
required in every house.
In discussing Korea, Mr. Bates states
that "the process of assimilation of Koreans
to Japanese proceeds apace, that "the Korean
language is now employed in only two years
of primary education, and 1s obviously on
the way out" and that auring the three years
preceding the writing of this report "a
ignificant percentage of leading Christian
Koreans, especially in the field of education,
have been imprisoned, often maltreated, and
sometimes driven permanently from the chosen
work of their lives".
In the concluding sections in regard
to "Manohukuo" and the other occupied areas
of China, Mr. Bates presents no specially
significant information.
FE:SarAary:MLS

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
Barbizon-Plaza Hotel
Central Park South
New York, New York
January 16th, 1942
LLOLIVED
FFB2 1943
COMM
MR. HURDBECK
JAN 27 1943
Dear George:
With his permission I am sending you
a copy of Dr. M. S. Bates's memorandum on
Division of
894.404/38
Shinto to which I referred the other day.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Yours as ever,
TinD
Depa tment of State
H. J. Timperley.
HJT:br
Mr. George Atcheson
Far Eastern Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
8.94.404
FEB 2
FILED
1943
893.404

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
Materiale on Problems of State and Charan in the Far Hast
1
The materials presented here are intended for the premotiom of truthful
and sympathetie understasding of the problems which the Churck faees in
relatiom to she State, and for no other purpose. Let the reader remind
himmelf shat concemtrotiom upon problems may easily mislead ome imto an
exaggerated sense of difficulty snd discouragement. The Chareh is doing
ite work. hevever laboriously tnd imperfectly. The demand for the Soriptures
is great (though their distribution to men of the Japanese forees has beem
forbidden): amd the eagerness of large groupe of people for the Cespel is
remarkable in some parts of Chosen ann espeeially in Hannboukuo and Chime.
There is no persseution of Christiamity ms such: imdeed, the State is
seldom conscious of action against Christians, whose difficulties usumlly
arise through the workings of goneral policy. Although there ere interesting
conceptioms, Chriatien liberties and onvertunities are part of the liberties
and onportunities which are granted or denied to whole peoples.
Questions of State and Church in Pastern Siberim are merely a
smoll seetion of the same questions in Soviet Russia ns a whole. The
oase is similar with regard to Indo-Chine in the Fronch Coloniel mpire.
In primoiple the Philippine Islands are following the American constitu-
tienal path in separating the State from religious concerns, although
signifieant problems of practice ariee in loosl traéitions of Roman Catholic
control or in distriots ruled by Moslem chiefs. The present eseay vill
probably be most useful to ite renders if it ie limited to Chine and to
the Japemese mpire, vhich include a very large majority of the population
of the Par Rast as vell as the freater of ite distinotive problemes in the
field under dincusgion.
The issuss in the Chinese State may be rapidly disposed of. for
there has been a single recent chenge (under Chinese muthority) from 
condition often deseribed and relatively simvle. keligious liberty in
a seeular state is the rule in Chimm, and the status of the Chrietian
Church is now the fairly naturel one of a minority mccepted, not ferred
or oprosed on groumds of public interest. There are regiomal exceptions
in the northvest, where Russian Comsanist influence has used the state
mmchinery to drive our misslemaries from Sinkiang (Turkestan), and where
Meslem populations present a semi-organised solidarity against nev
temchings. There were times and places, partioularly south of the
Yangtse River 1n the years 19?3 to 19?7, vhen commuaiet ideolegies
semgimed with the deeper and wider mationalistie revival to attack the
Christian Chureh as a manifestatiom and an agent of western capitalistic
imperialiem. vem mev there are possiMlities of frictiom ia the legal
pesitien ef missiemaries and of wissiom-owned property, whieh is fermally
depemdest upen treaties wrung frem the uavilling Tapire, and against which
the Rerablie has straggled with some suscess. Hovever, Chinese exelusivemess
and vestera assertiom have matually softemed in consiferable aceommodatien,
and the oouree of the past few years susgests that the preblems of extrn-
territeriality snd ef the status of a foreigm property is the interier are
well om the way te solation. Missiomariee and the Christien Chareh have
less them the gemeral diffieulty of fereigmers and fereicm heldimge of
propertys vith the eccasiemel exeeptiom of Remmn Catholio real estate in

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.94)
● 2 -
astemsive bleeks, waed to support the werk ef that Chareh by ite laeeme,
rather thes direetly for religious fumetioss.
The eme resest chaage is largely favorable to the Christies Chareh.
Fer the fall decade follevimg the establishment of the Kuemiatans (Masiomaliet
Party) ia a Natiemal Gevermmeat (1ges) that ceuld clalm to represeat asd srea-
tually te rele Chime, religiom as smch vas baamed frem all geveramest elemeatary
and middle sehools, and aypeared only in rare and scademic form in higher edae-
atiem. the temchime and exercise of religiom were alvo elimimated frem private
reeegmised elementary scheols and fumior middle schools. Hecognised private
semier middle seheols and higher schoels might offer elestive coarses in religien
and volumtary religious services, bus the curriculum established for the fermer
left in fact me oppertusity for elsctives of any sort. Unresegnised soheols were
met completely to dismppera, and some of them maintained a required religlous pro-
gram; but their mumber was not sreat, and their pesitiom seemed to be transieat
becaase their graduates faced disabilities. Since l93s private sahoole are per-
mitted to require may sort of relixious training they see fit. The chmage is dus
te the Christian comeern of enernl aad Hadame Chiens Kai-shek, but is made in
the vider setting of public spprecietion for the huanitarian services of the
Chrietian Church in the tremendoun ufferings of the war, and of new recognitiom
for the values of spiritual character.
It may be noted in pasging that there are trustvorthy reports of improved
understanding between ertain Christien grouns and the Chinese Comamuniste: the
former have learned that the latter ere in fact agrarinn reformer and popular
matiommlists with an earnest devotion to the common people: while the Chimese
Commaniete have found shat the Chrintinn lendern sre not the agente of a predatory
imperialiem but devoted servents of ell men with n spiritual cospel. This new
understandins han inmediate results in the portion ef Shenai ruled by the Chi-
nese Commanimts, and has potemtialities for the future if their influence should
be extended by reamon of military events or political change.
All in all, there is little prosent anxiety about the relations of Church
and tate in Chine, mside from the current imvasiom by Japanese prmies and the
prebleme arisim therefrom. The situation in the areas now uncer military
oecupatien must be referred to a little later. Here there can barely be memtion
of the difrioulties aricing within "frer China" beemuse of the fact that am im-
portant part of the Christian Church (Chinese) is contimuimg to work in "Occupied
Chimm," inevitably recognising the  act of Japamese rule shereim by obediemce to
poliee and other reguirements. There 1s in some quarters, usually mot the highest
omes, doubt or critieiem over the motives and character of the Chareh whieh gees
abead on both sides ef the grim frontier during what appeare to the Chimess as a
righteous and all-demanding struggle for matiomal life and liberty. There in alse
the famillar, world-vide danger that alleginmce to the state, most readily fustified
during resistance to a destruetive imvasiom, shall pres, religion imto pelitical
melds. Fertunstely a corsendable degree of reasomebleness and sease of isternatiemal
realisies has beem maintaimed, while the a dresses of Gemeral and Madese Chiang
(eepesially the latter', "Chine's Seven Deadly Sins." - remarkable spiritual
abeievememt for wartime) have helped to suppert faith without self-righteousmess.
Graatime the severity of war comditiems, the Church has little reason to cemplein
of the state, mad mmck to be shankful for.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
11. J
1. The Gemeral Situation
In Japem the relatieas of state and Chureh are cempler and peouliarly
difrieult fer a vestermer to waderstand. The State is traditiomally all-pervasive,
and hms greatly sueceeded in developing a tetalitariem loyalty esatered emotiomally
in the Imperial Tamily past and present. Oroup solidarity is a demineat virtue,
almest am imstimet among the Japamese peopln. An independent positiom, evem in
small associatioms and in mimor mmtters, is exceptional -- the more so im affaire
of the mation. The Christian Chureh is a small body of alien origim ( a little
mere tham 200,000 Protestants aad 100. 00 Cathol1os 1a some 70.000,000 Japemese).
eving ome pars of ite success to etremuous "Japamisatiom" uader native leadership.
and amether part to a mew repudiated velcome for western sivilisatiom. The church
temde protectively to reduce its sevaratenes. to well vithin the danger point, and
on eceasiom to answer su-pisiem by ennounced conformity to politicel pressures er
sronde.
The religious situatiom is not simple. Bu dhism has long beem assimilated
and modified im Japem, and is mumerically Sominant. The Yearbeok of Heligloms
(Japamr) reports 71.000 mples: 8.00 churche; 55.00 priests:2.000,00 adher
ents. Sectarian strife and some mspects of isorgenized decadence blur the picture
of cultural strength which Hundhiem hae historionlly created. Shinto (The Way of
the ede) is e grovth from native origins, nimistic and mytheloglesl, nov living
im two diverse trunke: State Shinto (shrine Shinto) with 110,c00 shrines and 16.000
priests, which is  politicelly developed religlom of Imperial patriotiem, admiais-
tratively classed as the mmrture of mublic morality and not as religion: them Smmt
shiate, which reportn 16,000 churches, 120.00 tenchors, nd some 18,000,000 ad-
hereats. State Shinto, of whieh mere will be smid hereinafter, is linked with Sest
Shimte by the fact that eseentially the same deities are common to both types. Seet
Shimte embraees a vide variety of teachimgs on various levels of spirit and wind; in
gemeral it is marked by matiomalism and by emetiomrliem, but no brief referemce cam
do feetiee to a range that includes immertent branches of Cenfucien thought md of
faith healimg.
2. Religious Liberty and State Shrines
Artiele xxvilI of the Cemstitution of the Japamese mpire reads as
fellewes "Jepamese subjecte shall, within limits of lav, not prejudieial to peaee
and erder, and mot antagemietio to their duties as subjacts, emjoy freedom of re-
ligieas belief." The guarantee of religious liberty i, carefully restrieted, and
its imterpretatiom is in the hands of a "police state" or "defence state." utilising
in burnamoratie metheds the absolute sovereigzty ascribed to the mperor. A majer
preblem lles in the temsiom betweem the concept of religious liberty and the state-
fostered development ef shinto as e matiemal faith. Snocessive govermments have
sought e legalistic solution by(desrensing) decreeing shat State Shinte in its dual
aspeet ef pablie veseratien at the Shrimes and of systematie teschims is the ssheels,
is mot a religiem bat is merely a means of imouleating patriotism and civie ethies.
Sest Shimte, like Badahism and Christiaaity, is cemsidered as a religiea, and is
weder the empervisiem of the Duream of Religiems im the Depertment ef xdueatiem;
while the distimetive status of state Shiato is extersally fustified by placing
the shrises under she Departmeat of Home Affairs.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
●4
In the main, Jepamese Christians have come to acoept the administrative
defisisiem of State Shinto as nom-religious -- partly because they with all
Japemese are suffused with the gemeral glew that warms all patrietic ferees
abeve the peiat where ceol amalysis is possible, partly besanse it is the enly
ready way to aveld a diffieult issme of conscience simes attendance as shrime
eeremeniee has beceme videly eempalsory. When questiens are raised, they are
ansvered vith the statement that fer Christians the ceremonies are not worship
but the cultivatiom of civic respect. A minority of Christiams are still troubled
imwardly about the traiming of ohildrem in davotion at she shrines, but the
sitmation is quietly accepted. The suosess of persistant pressure by the state
and comsequent accommodatiom on the part of Christiens is suggested by the fact
that as lnte as 1929 and 1930, the Wational Christian Counc1l of Japan publiely
deelared its aaxieties in terms that would net be employed today. In those years
a special committee studied the shrime question, and reported in words that com-
prised the folleving: "The ahrimes of Shrime Shinte are actually engaged in re-
ligiems funotions...Furthermore, recently the government in its effort to foster
religioms faith has promoted worshin at the shrines at Shrine Shinto and even
made im compuleory. This is clearly contrary to the policy that Shrime Shinto
be mon-religious. Moreover, the quastion has often been raised ns to whether at
times it has not interfernd vith the freedem of religious belief granted by the
Constitution of the Empire." It should be added that the Roman Catholios stoed
firm against worship at the shrimes until 1936, when they were anthoritativaly
released from strain by permissive Instructioms from the Office of the Saored
Comgregatlon for Propaganda of the Faith, which accepted the Govermment's ad-
ministrative definitioms and mssurances et literal value.
Yet the real problem is not laid to rest by formalistio adjustments, aad
further light must be thrown upon its fundamental charecter. Professor Holtos,
whose resent and thorough-going hook on The Ratlomal Faith of Japan represents
the best of Japanese and western scholarship on this snbject, comeludes a tem-
perate and scientific amalysi: of the facts with these clear comclusions: "There
is no cefimitiom of religion kmown to religlous sciemce under whioh State Shinte,
sither as a whole or in part, may not be given lagitimate classification as a
gemuime religien...Contemporary State Shinto possesses all the primary aspects
of religlem that have already been noted. The sacred furnishings of aa ergamised
eultus appear om am imposins seale in the carefully artiouleted system of teme ef
theasands of shrimes, in the thousaads of priests, and in the punctiliously exeeuted
state ceremomies and their accompamiments of saered acts and words. Saered be-
liefs wmderlle these seored rituels - beliefs in the contimued existance in
the spárit werld of the geardian ameestral kanl, in the efficacy of prayer and
efferinge, in the secred missiem of the Japaasse race, and in the eternity of the
Eaperer-cestered state. Fimally, a saored ethic sives practical utility to the
ceremeniel and ratiomelity to the myth -- aa ethie which exalts, es the imperatives
ef geod eitisenship, an unquestioning obedience to autherity and en all-sarrend-
ering leyalty, whieh on the eme hand, suberdinates the imdividual, and, om the
other, magaifies asd werehipe the state."
Among many striking statemente vhiah might be queted frem Badahist and frem
Shiste soarees as to the religiows charecter ef the shrime serememies, we limit
carselves to certain semtenees frem Prefesser Gemchi Kato, whe in varieas beeke,
artieles and addresses has establiched himself as the best kmove Japasese sehelar
in the field of shinte. Le declarest "this is net a religion adepted purpesely

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
● 5 -
religion adopted purposely by the state as are the State religions in the
West, but the religiom of the heart and life of every Japamese, male and
female, high and low, old and yeung, edueated and illiterate. For shis
reasen, a Japamese mever ceases to be a Shimteist, an iaborn and steadfast
helder of the natiomal faith of the Way of the Gede as a group religion,
as distinguiahed from a personal or imdividaal religion, even though he
may meeept the tomets of Budahism or Confacianiem -- probably Chrietianity
here im Japan not being excepted -- as his personal or individusl religien.
Im effeet, this means that rejestion of Shinto by a Japanese would signify
treachery to the Empire and disloyalty to its Divine uler." Agaim: "Japamese
patriotimm, soom in the willingness of the nation's soldiers to smcrifice
themeelves on the battlefielde and in the unity of national thought when
pressure is exerted from abromd, is rn aspect of Bhinto, the national religion
...The memtal texture of the people and their religlous feith and natiomal
comsciousmess have been no closely interwoven ms now to be inoapable of
separatiom." And finally: "The Ymperor is incarnate Deity, and occupies
in Japemese faith the pomition which Jehovah occupied in Judaiem..We cannot
pass over the fect that these ceremoninls (at the shrines) are accomranied
by e faith in the divine aid of a sreet spiritual pover...The affairm of the
Pestivmls are pure religion. To regard then as other than religioue is
indeed a biarsed interpretation end mast be pronounced an extreme misrepre-
sentetion of the shrines."
If others would state the case loss cogently, they would with trifling
exoeptions agree to Kato'n nesential propositions of the permeating group-
character of shiato; of the practicul imebility of normel Japanese to sepa-
rate themselves frem veneration for the Empire mnd the Imperial Family, even
when the prescrihed maaner of ven ration is not entirely to their liking! of
the subtle yet fundamentsl tie between religion and patriotiem, novhere stronger
then im Japan; of the univereal faith in the super-mors1 nature of the Imperial
Family: of the fumetion of the shrines and related teaching in the sohools, for
the fostering of those emotions and beliefs, spoken or unspokem. Not only the
minds and attitudes of she people as a whole, but also the minds aad attitudes
of Christians are markedly conditiomed y those elements of Shinte.
A secomdary but important qualification to the Govermment's ineistenee
that the required visits of school children and others to the matiomal shrimes
are omly for purpeses of expressing fidelity to the matiom amd to the Imperial
Family, and are entirely civic in character, is foued in the fact that certain
of the impertant shrines are deveted to the Rieo-Toddess and to other deities
of the Shimto pemtheon, ond further that superstitious prayers, charms, amd
forme of worship are characteristic of the visitimg of the shrines by vest
mbere of the populese.
Of espeelal interest at this time is the Tasukaai Shrime im Tokye, mow
the Mesea of hesdreds of thousands of revereatial visitores fer shere devesies
ls paid to thb living, deified spirits of these whe have died in war fer the
serviee ef Imperial Japan. ecemtly impertamt Christiaa leadere have fels is
meet to ge there to repert at the time of sigmifieans Caristien gatherings. It
is met pessible to dismies the problem vith casuel referense to the graves of the
Unkmovn Seldier as visited in ether countries. Mere is a current deseriptien ef

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.92)
-6.
the prime service et the Tasukuai Shrime by an expert in Japanese relision and
ceremenies: "The spirits ef the dead to be eashrimed are assembled in a sesvise
of selemm prayer and priestly ritual, and after heving beem givem temporary re-
sidemee in a portable ark are transfesred vith stately precessiemml te the immer
sasstwary of the grand shrine and deified there with further serviess of imprese-
ive ceremomy."
3. Shimto Teaching. The Imperial Rescript on Education.
In the workiags of State Shinto, the shrine system is paralleled in clese
ceoperation by the tesching of Keokutal, primciples of national polity, or matiemal
athios. Holtom's painstaking survey of the subjeet in school textbooks and im edu-
cational doruments is plainly summarised in his own wordss "A systematie, natien-
wide effort is being made by the authorities to utilise the sahools, partioularly
those of ementary grade, as agencies for inculcating in the minds of the young
definite ideas comcerning the nature of Shiato deities and human obligatiens to
them." A brief example must suffice, a quotation from Kitabatake Chikafuge's
Accouat of the Righteous Reigns of the Divine Tmperors as employed in the Teaoher's
Hamuel of Hational History for Primary Schools published by the Departmemt of Eda-
cation: "Greet Japan is the Land of the Gods. Here the Deity of the Sun has handed
on her eternal rule. This is true only of our country and there is nothing like it
in any other land."
In recent years all schoole are required to have read vith the utmost re-
veremce, upon important occasions, the Imperial Hesoript om Educstion, premalgated
by the grest Emperor of the Restoration. Heiji. This document appears to most
westerners, upon casual reading. to be composed of relatively vague and certaimly
gemerel principles of soclal morality. Its significance to Japancse is sreet, hev-
sver, and its relation to the precent topic is significant.
The authorised inglish translation of the Imperial Rescript om Edncation
begims with thin sentence, "Our Imperial Amcestors have founded our Empire on a
besis broad and everlasting and have deeply end firmly implasted virtue." the
official gloss, taught of requirement, explains the compeund term that is taglished
as "Our Imperial Amcesters" to meen first the reat Imperial Ancestress, Ammterasu-
Omikami, who is the Sas Goddess and the supreme deity of coatemporary Shimtel sad
seeemdly, all the Imperial Amcestors from Jimmm Tenne (who is officially tanghs to
have feumded the Tmpire in 660 H.C.) to the father of the presemt ruler. Other
phrases, ualess blarred in the familier imdefinitemess of the Japamese lasgeage
and ways of thonght, impress upon the minds of the yeung the etermal and wsivereal
quallty of the Lmperial Family. "Our Imperial Throne, coeval vith heavem and earth..
"The Way here set ferth is imdend the tenching bequeathed by Oar Imperial Amcesters,
to be ebeerved alike by their fescendaats and their subjeets, infallible fer all
ages and truw for all pleees." Certaialy the attribates of Daity are apnlied.
Marly in 1939, durime the diseussien of the Ceatrel of Religioms Bill,
Gemeral Araki me Minister ef Täneatien made this statement to the Diet: "the
Imperial Rescript on Basatien suffices fer all meral gaidaace - freedem ef faith
mmst be limited te the seope of matiemal obltgatiens as there ses ferth." Three
peare proviossly the Osake Asahl, a leading novspaper with a mame that hee steed
fer Isberelsem ia the Jepasese semse ef the term, demaaded in emimous terms the
striet enfereemsnt of the Imperial Reseript as a nerm of edasatiem: "the Ets-
eatien Mimister ms recemtly metiried all seheele that edueatiem in Japes mmst

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
-1.
be based on the Imperial Rescript on duoation, and that no schooling which
purperts te foster religleus seasimeat by meams contrary to the epiris embedied
in she Rescript cen be permitted...To the maties whick looks wpen shat spirit
as abeelate, any religiom, whether it be Baddhism, Christiamity, or naything
elee, which comfliets vith it mest be rejested. Chrissiasity attaches mere
impertamce to service than patrietiem. Direct appliestion of this destrime in
Japam would comfliet with the spirit of the Resoript. Japan may have te prohibit
propagation of its gospel." Eo one familiar with Japanese publie semtimeats on
patrietis mattere would take thie mewspaper declaratiom with alermies literelness.
bat the whele passage represents fairly enough the status of the Imperial Reseript
as above eny and all religlous teaching. It is an iateresting fmct that im the
same city of Csaka, two years before the foregoimg sentences were written, a young
Christian layman in the course of strect preaching suggested that some of the
stories about the Sum Goddess were not of divine quality. Hie primon semtenee,
ceafirmed by a court of mpneal, was on conviction of disrespect te the Imperial
Pamily. The impllestions of this incident, which attracted no grent attention
and passed as the inevitable course of fussicc, are far-reachinn indeed.
Let us turn again to Profeasor loltom for a final word upon this phase of
the school teaching. "The grentest power in the spiritual world which the govers
ment textbeoks on ethics open to the minds of the Japanese children is Amaterasu-
Omikami, "the August Anceatress of the Emperor." She in the mightiest of the kaml
(spirits, or gods). The everlasting foundations of the eternal Japamese state were
laid by this Grent Deity. It is not easy to escape the conalusion that the muthe-
rities are seekime to surround a doctrine of politieal absolution with the fimal
samotion of religious belinf."
Whem the Thinto world-view is mut forward, the problem for Chrietians is made
more difficult. In the Shinto revivel of the lete ei hteenth and early nineteeath
conturies, the scholars Motoori Norinega and Hirata Atsutane directed the course
of modern religio-m tiomalism in works that have become olassies. Helrvent passages
are thus swmarised, the first from Hotoori mnd the second from Hirete: "Frem the
comtral truth that the ttade is the direct descendent of the cods, the tenet that
Japam remaks fer above all other countries is  natural consequemce. No other
nation is eatitled to equality with her, and all are bound to do homage to the
Japamese sovereigm and pay tribute to him." "Japan, as the foremost of the mations,
lies on the swmmit of the glebe, and wes formed first among the lands of the earth
by the greatest of the ereation deitiee, Isemagi and Isammsi, while nll ether cous-
tries were produced much later by inferior deities out of see-foam mnd wud. All
the ceumtries of the world, hovever, ove their origim to the creative assivity of
Japamese gode and goddesses. This material wuperiority ef Japam to all other lamds
is magmemted by religious, morel, iatelleetual sad dymastic superiority. Japem pro-
duced in Amsterasn-Omikemi the traatest of all the deities of all rellgions and
thereky attaimed a premimenee that no land eam rivel. The superior merits of
Shimte make the presemce ef all other religiems net oaly superfluous but harmfal.
Avery srue-berm citisem of the Land of the Dede is a descendant of the rode and
 virtue ef swsh relatienship, maturally eadeved with a true and perfeet merel
dispeeltien and a mmtekless eourage and imtelligenee. Nembers ef she Japanese
rese are thms raised abeve other reoples by a differense ef kind rather than of
a00."
This classle lime of Shiate thought 1e fruisfally propagated today by the
state whieh fermelly allevs religiems freedom. A reseat studest has writtes of the

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.92)
Imperial legios "very ehild of the Mapire greve up belleving vith every fiber
of hie being that: Japan 1o the oaly divine land. Japan's Baperer le the ealy
divime Baperer. Japas's peeple are the oaly divime peeple. Tmerefere Japan
mast bo the ligtt of the world." The apochryphel Reseript f Ja dating
arbitrarily frem a sime practieally eme thousank years befere mything was
knowm ef writims in Japan, declares: "We shall build our Capital all over the
werle, and make the vhele world our dominiom." whereupon the military textbeek
ealled Tpe Army Reader makes the most of the fabricatlom, sayima. "This Reseript
has beem riven to us as am everlasting categorical imperative." And an effieial
manifesto of the war office not lomg before the mutbrent of the present "sacred
hestilities" (to use en authorised variant of the well-worn "Holy Was), preseated
this meesimaie programs "To brine topether all the racen of the world inte ome
hapry mecerd has been the iderl and the national asnirntion of the Japamese sinee
the very foumdation of their mpire. We deem this the great miseion of the Jape-
mese race. Ye also annire to mnke n clemn weep of iajustice pnd inequi ty from
the earth and to bring rbout everlnsting harnines" among man ind."
slightly more explicit and less ethicrl in tarminology is  poem or hymn
nrominent in the ritual of one of the leadin: Shinto sects:
When Jaran whell he emrowered with the Holy Pnith.
She 1l' necifyother peonle es seeme sood to her.
Hareefter Japen shell conman? foraien novere.
Xark it vell, all of you!
They have beon cnlled nitherto Jn en and foreign lande:
Hareafter there whrll be nought but Janan."
Such are the thoughte in the minds of men who mould the wnirits of little
children, usimg simple and natural iety to produce the obedient servant of a
military state. what probleme are raised for the Christian teaching of leve to
Ged the Tather, in this versn fram a voem "treat Japan," vublished by the Rtuea-
tiomal Department in the Xational eaders for Ordimery Elementary Sehools:
"Greet Japem! Great Japan!
Our seventy million citizens
Look up to the Pmperor even as to God
And leve and serve him even as a parent."
How hard the posit om of the man whe has the iatellect aad the integrity to
draw beek frem the mamafaotured hietory, the breedth of humam sympathy and the
knovledge of other mations im God's family to emable or to require him te ebetain
frem the false exoesses of pride or mmbitiem of recel Yeung's recest dietum in
The Rlse of a Pagem State io hareh. But it strikes home. "Truth and iatelleetmal
Integrity eannet exist in a ?tate whose policy is fonnded os a pretence." Christiams
cam well resegmise the grent sigaificnmce of she Imperial Lime to Japan, the
wmiguemees ef its cemtimmtiy, amn the rightmese of serviee to the State-commaity.
tat whem the astributen ef eteraity and divinity are perforee attribated to the
mertal rulere ef ome maties, when the realities of Ged's werld in histery are
falsified, when religiem is made am agemt for asserting tribel domimatien ever
man fer whom Chriet died, the isrmes fer a Christien pre memeatous. Cther peeple
heve their syiritual prebleme of the same gem ral category, and me ungenerons com-
parisene sheald be susrestes. But Thy mmhette claim of the Japanese to bo 

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
. 9 -
mrls is all too ensily granted, for in no other country of the world does the
Christien Church meet this particuler combination and degree of presaure upen its
fundmmentals. Oaly too naturel vere the words of A Christian leazer who resently
warmed a visitims misslomary seeretary to desict from his intention to speak upon
the text that God "hath made of ome blood ll men..." "we Japanese do mot believe
that. Ve are a special people, not like others."
4. Some Christian Adaptations to the Japanese Climate
Im order to overcome the stromg prejudice against a foreign religion iatroduced
after the re-opeming of Japen some eighty years ago, nutive Christian workers have
eften been driven to assimilate the Christian faith as closely as possible to aceepted
traditioms and attitudes. A glimmee into this tangled forest is provided by the
words of Dr. Mbine, ons of the most reputed Christinn leaders at the begimning of
our century. "Though the encouragnment of encestor worship cannot be regarded as
part of the essential teaching of Christianity, it (Christiunity) is not oppesed so
the notion that, whem the Japanese Emnire was founded, its eerly rulers were in
commanientiom with the Grent Spirit that rules the universe. Christians, eccording
to this theory, without doing violenoe to their creed, may acknowledge that the
Japamese mation han m divine origim. It is only when we realise that the Imperial
Aseestors were in close comamunion with God (the nds) that we understand how smered
is the country in which we live."
Those who pre inclined to exouse all recent aberretions as manifestations of
war hysteria should reaall the statement of the Reverend Hiyasaki, mede some yeare
ago vhen he was secretary of the Japen Christian Church (the union of Presbyterian
and relnted bodies): "I believe thst Japan is ordaimed s the Kingdom of God..If
Jesus, who made * pilgrimage to the Jevish temmle at Jerusalem on the oceasd on of
the Passover every year, had happened to live in Japen, he would have made this
yearly pilgrimage to the grand shrine of Ise ps hin heavealy Father's abode." Again,
in l937 a pestor in one of the leading demonimations said that the doctrime of the
Trinity wam not suitable for Japan, where Four Persons should be recognised, with
the Xmperor first in homor. Ironically enough, members of the patriotie sosieties,
more noted for senl in action than in reflection, attacked this remarkable effort
is smgeretiem as an imsult to the mperor!
Japas seeme peculiarly prome to the practice, comnen envugh in other parte ef
the world, of mssimiloting the Chrintiam traditiom to the losal seeme in a manmer
that ean scareely be called amything other than superstitious. One of the latest
instamses, sufficiently prominent to have become s videly ndvertised "mevs reel"
In photegraphed embodiment, is the discovery in North Japan of "the crave of Chriet."
Acsording to ome versiom of this meders lngend, Jesus dwelt in Japan wmder Shiate
imetrestiem during the period betweem the boyhoed visit to the Temple and the be-
gimming of the pablie mimistry. Koreover, Jesus was mot ectuslly crusified and
bashd at Jerusalem, but a disciple or youmger brother wes substituted fer Rim.
Amother imetamee ws the "diseevery" mot long ngo of the tablets of the Ten
Commmmdmeats, cevered with writing that was comvomieatly illegible. Although
cuch tendemeles are met in themselves a matter of State and Charoh relatiemshipe.
they ferm part of the setting of these relatleaships; and slong with mmch ef the
remaiming material in this essay, they mast be coasidered in light of the widely
pepalar character of Shisteistie censepts snd their iatervesving with matiemalism
and the states seme ebeervers are led to sey in despeir that in Japan everything 1o
pelisieal! Fermal Fasciem or tetalitarianiem is uamecessary, for the praetice is
already established by subsler means.
A fimal example of cotermity usder presrure er ef sccommedatiom to feretble

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
- 10 -
Satiomalism in order to avoid poteatiel conflict, is given fron the ansvers made in
the mame of the faculty of a Christian college to the recent "Osaka mestiennaire."
e series of test-proposisioms put before various Christinns and Christian orgami-
satiems wpen the imisiative of the gendarmerle im Osske aad other cisies. Qmestiem
Ne. 5, "Whnt is the relation of Imperial Reseripte esd the Biblet" Aasver: "The
Rescript is am Imperial deeree. Thas it has a cencrete abseluteness. The Bible is
believed to be the revelatiom of the word of the Christian fod, and it reveals as
abselute spirit, but somstimes lacks conorete commands for special partieular cases.
Hemee the Christien as a subjeet, by cultivating shrough the Bible a pure falth void
of self and a noble persommlisy. prepares himeelf im advanee so thet whes as Imperial
deeree cemes he enn at any time mct as it instructs." Here if one refleete upom
absolutemess mnd upon means and ends, he is lest in despair. Perkaps Young's
apestrophe mmde in a slightly different connection is fustified. "Amsterasu,
5. The Control of Rel1ioun Let, 1939
Farly in 1939 the finnl dimoussions upon a lone-pending Control of soligione
Bill resulted in its enactmens. The new law will not be apvlied until administrative
regulations nnd official interpretations are made ready: and netual experience of
administration lies still further in the future. At present one can see oaly the
main lines of the Act itself, en illuminated by Government statements during the
last session of the Diet. The act recognizes hinto, Buddhimm, And Christinnity
as religions, mad provides speoifioslly for the proteetion of their proporty rights
with privileges in regard to taxstiom. & mejority of Christien leaders eppear to be
pleased om the whole with the inareased security of Christimn orgnnization, and to
feel that the provisioms of control merely regularise what is now dome somewhat
arbitrarily by loesl officiels. Yot some observers are maxious about the drastie
povere specifionlly mssigmed to administrators, who obviously may ect upon the besis
of personal information and individual attitude.
Alongside the conerred powers, the Constitution's very generel and severely
qualified proposition of religious liberty seems week and small. Seets and demomina-
tiems may be disbanded at the diseretiom of the Mimister of duestiom: loenl temples
and sharches at the disoretiom of prefecturel governors. There are severe diseipli-
nery end pasitive provisioms for failure to comply with preseriptioms of the ast
itself; also for teaching "that subverts peace end order" and for conduct "at vari-
anee wish the dutiee of subjects." In the minds and the practice of a police baress-
eraey these latter terms are highly imclusive, to put is mildly. Ome mast remember
the Cevermment's understandable dislike ef certain irratiomal cults, badly led and
effering mmmy avenues to moterioue abuses; some of them have been dissolved is som-
siderable sommotion. Noreover, it seems that the present attitade of she Daresu of
Religlems in the Departmeat of Edueatiom is essentielly feir end mederate toward re-
spestable religlens. Yet it appears dangerous to ge to mch extremes is sutherising
fer m imdefimite future the arbitrary comtrel ef religioms bedies by fallible and
varyimg men. The offieial argument that religious organisstions are being comtrelled,
set religiem per ee, is not impressive.
What to the meed asd spirit behiad the letter? at the rink af distertien 
seleeting what is mevel er problem-makins, 1t is meesssary te sive exeuplifieatien.
There io in Japan a tradition of religien as eeatributime to the waity ef the State,
and an uasesimese in regard te the existense ef dsffesime religiene and ef eempetitive
sests vithia she ssme religiea. Mereever, bureemeracy mnd the peliee state tesd to

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.93)
-11 -
prefer as a matter of adsixistrative convenience and esosemy ef meatal eertion,
éroupiags of mes under as few headiage as possible. Nore specifically, in the
eerly yeare of the Restoration (lg6s) there was an effort to combime Shimto and
Bedakism under politicel direetiom. One group of leaders used the comcept of Xode
the Imperial Way, which was expounded in an edict to governmeat departments ms tthe
system ef admimistration which shall jeim the whole nation in umity ef heart and
shall uaite religien and pelitical administration." Since 193l there has beem a
revival ef shis comeept, and under ome resent Premier there vas a motieeable meve-
memt se suberdimate separate religloms to that outlook, without renching the stage
of fermulating precedure, hovever.
The war-sime phraseology wes emrloyed by teneral Arrki, then Minister of xaue-
atien, in the Peers' discussions of the Control of Religious Bill (February, 1939).
whem he replied to a questiom shoving concern for religimue liberties: the chief
parpose of she Religions Bill wae to facilitate mobilisation of the matiomal spirit.
and not to contrel religious bodies unnecesasrily. this temper of the Imperial
utilisation of religion was shown in the House of Representatives at the smme
peried. The question ran thus: "The mission of religions in connectien with anti-
Commamist polioy, Chim polioy, and moderating fasling mgainst Japan in the United
States, at cetere, is quite important. Is the Government prepared to start a great
movement for these purposes?" General Areti answered: "At present little use is
being made of religions in regulating international relntions, but in viev of the
prevailing wituation we sholl make much use of them in the future."
Still more suggestive were another question end answer: "Vievs in favor of
repudiating religiom are belng advocated; should not the Govermment dismolve re-
ligioms rivelry? Some religious organisations ere opposed to bowing befere the
photograph of the Emperor, visits to shrines, and military traiming in the schools,
being iaternationalistio and quite un-Japanese in svery way: should we shelter any
sueh shing, even if it is the world': restest religiom? Among the Chimese popalace
the imfluence of Ameriean missionaries is deen and far-reschimg: our religious werk-
ers must show similer energy, must they not?" Said the Home Minister (who is in
charge of shrimes and of the police, lut supposedly is not in charge of "religious
orgnmisatiome"): "In that our shrines are in everywmy superior to other religions.
frietion should be reduced. Religiows workers should be active on the comtiment...
Amy religious bedy which sete contrary to our mational structure will be deals vish
vithout hesitation."
Lor mmst ome ever lose sight of the pover of hinto and of its relatiom to the
Japamese State and to the mntional emotions. One member of the Diet proffered the
proposition-iaquiry characterietic of that body: "The true religiem in cur couatry
in the rites of the eight millioa gods // cam any other faiths or dodtrimes be Jap
ameset" Premier Hirame thereupon deelared: "The Way of the Gede is the abselute
way, and all teachiags that rum couater to it caanet be permitted to exist. Daddhiem
asd ether teaehiags are termed religieus om the wmderstanding, for the sake of
aémimistrative cenvemiense, that sush orgaaisatioms are religious orgaaisstions."
This statement eammet be taken literally, but even after considerable diseeunt is
is still diequietimg to those who cherish free religiems epportuaities, and disees-
certing to shese whe are cutwardly cenfident that the Bill wnder disoussien has
adeguately established seoure status fer Baddkism aad for Christiaaity. Am addisien-
al reply eame from the Home Mimister in these worde, "Bupervisiom over quasi-re-
ligiems of sll kinde will be in the hands of the Kducatien Mimistry, while publle
morale will be dealt with by the Heme Miaietry." At lemst the effieiale vish to
make elear where eompetemee in these matters lies.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
-12 -
6.War-time Straine
The "Chima Imoidemt" or the "Holy var," to use the two aliches which in
reiteratien have tended to lese all spesifio colering, has brought its spesial
straims and pressuree fer the Chareh is relatien to the State, many of whieh are
intemsificatioms of the comforming tendemsies alreafy indicated. The chureh has
respended to the call of patrietiem, particulmmly to those notes capable of ideal-
1stie refimewemt, with the merits and perils familiar to such respense. The
executive Secretary of the Mationel Christian Council of Japan, in a publie state-
mest made during the first wiater of the war, prefmced * call for spiritual resourees
to easare vietery, with these words: "Purely from our religious viewpeint, we Christ-
iame should hold on to the highest ideals and sternal hopes of our faith. But in
reality, whem the life or denth of our ccuntry it mt steke as it is today, our duty
to the fatherland must be considered firet." The same ofricer wrote in the Japen
Chrlatiam Year Book for l939, thet the national policy in regard to the Chims com-
fliet bed been offieially declared to be "non-aggrevation, with meither territorial
ambition nor demand for indemnity, but simply the establishment of a new order in
the Par East. uch an attitude on the part of the government gave an opportunity
to the Christiams to uphold and to oxplain Christiam prineiples, taking advantage
of the gemeral trend of thought, so that Christian idesle might he taken as the
guiding spirit in the establishment of the new order in the Orient."
The Notional Christinn Council of Jepen prepered a meseage to the corresponding
body in China, which included & prayer for enduring ties of friondehip and for making
common cause in "the realization of lasting pence in Eastern Asia," and again the
desire for the early approsch of "restoration of friendly relations and the stability
of Eastern Asie." It is not mest here to discuss the contract between the declared
govermment pelicy and the renlities of that poliey, but merely to observe that use
of the national slogens of the wsr, if juatifiable in domestic cars, is no approach
to Chimeme or to other foreign hearts. ne should nssume that the prayer was a
gemmine prayer directed to God; but it wes " public prayer. and the nearer audieace
supplied the language, not the farther one for which it was formally intended. "Let
him that readath uaderstand."
Hore tragie 1e the spiritual confusion of the Christmas proclamation of the
Natiemal Bumdey School Assoelation (1937). *Wherens we Christians understand and
Justify the policies of our imperial government regarding China and the Morth Chime
imcidemt; whereas we symnathise vith the officers and soldiers of our ovn imperial
army who are exposims themselve: to the dangers of severe olimate and hesvy fighting
literally felleving the teaehimg of our Lerd -- 'Greater love heth so man them this.
that a mam lay dewa his life for his frieads' -- be it sesolved that is celebrating
Christmas shis year...avoid everythiss that might be misunderstood by the publie as
a aetiom agaimat war." Those whe shared some of the degradatiom of spirit in l91k
te l91s, as well as ite spuriome axaltations, are perhaps qualified to think en this
statememt. In this evil gemeration men are umable to eseape war. But if the Primee
of Pease is comseripted, the Light is gome.
The resegmised head ef ome of the largest demominatiems in Japan reseztly mede
a publie address to yeang people whish he alleved to be pablished, and later de-
femded, in a verslem emtisled "Preparatiems for Spiritual Warfare," from whieh the
felleving seleetlems are takems "The world pweers, bessath the mmsk of their owa
self-rightecusmees, are seeking to proteet their ovm profit. But at this time our
semstry is seeking te achieve in the realn of Rast Asie the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
-23-
Sdeal relaties of peeples that is imeluded ia 'Japemese-Kerean Umity.' To lay
a sermerstome fer verld selidarity, to bring abeut she waity of the werld and te
let the werld pevers some se the censciousmess that the matieme are branches of
eme tree is the mission ef Japan...Going from Japenese-Kerees Unity, in erder te
bring about the realisatiom of such a big ideal ss this...a greet ideal berm ef a
great semvistiom is meeded. That comviotion wast be a Christian semviesiem...
Christiame are the omee whe trualy believe that all reeple sheuld be ome. Therefore.
os the cscasien of our country pmshing forward in the bailding of a mew order fer
Fast Asin, for strengthemimg the home-base and plxnting of the Christian faith in
eur people and the people of Eest Asim is more necessary shan nmything slee.
Since the beginning of Japasese history ve were never as near the Christiam ideal
me we are today. Kence, there wae never * time when the respoasibility of the
Christians of Japam was piled up so high; the unity of all people was the last
praper of Jesus. No" for this reslization, in order to rejeet enti-Japanese
ideas amd in order to destrcy the aggressive poliey of the world powere, we are
performing e surgical operstion (in Chine)...
"The conviotlon that we hristians have been chosen by God agrees
with our national idoas. 'Iou did not choose me but I chose you.' is found
in the words of ur Lord and is one point of our Christian faith. Unleae we
stand on the convletion thet the life of mnn is controllen by non we cannot
partioipate in modern spiriturl warfare. ne renson for the strongth of th.
Japaneee fihting men is that - it is " matter of ave - they are chosen by
The Person and ere permitted to plsce their nemes unon the military list. The
spirit of these soldimrs is n conviction you cen't snn in the soldiers of other
countties with volnntary or mercenary eystems. In this respent the ide's of
our people and the Christimn feith are entirely at one.
"Again you mmst know that the big tonk of building mot seie can't
be deme by depanding only on human pover but by dependence of the pever of
God. Hew as our country is about to fulfil) a grest missiom we must prepare
for many compliontions, and for the accomplishment of that objective we mmet
depend earmestly on the power of God. me Japanese soldier nlthough fighting
his very best in not able to conquer in hie own streagth alone but -- it is
a matter of ave -- Repends on the virtue, power and glery of the aperor. Like
Admiral Toxo and femoral Hogi, who were military strstegists, brave soldiere
after exertime themselves to the utmont lay the victory to the  aperor and the
help of heavem. ?hi, ir truly our soldiers' spirit. aceuse of this spirit our
soldiers are able to fight without seeking reward. This is also the apirit of
Chriet: Holding that God is vorking in us, we return glory to God for everything.
Having just shis spirit, although we are able to comquer contimaully, we do met
seek our ewn prefit, have mot pride nor arrogamse, only soimg as we ougàt to de
we effer lives of bodily saorifice. This spirit of the soldier (Bashide). this
spirit of Christ, only as it is increasingly is our people vill we be sble to
realise in manifold waye the big ideal.
"Therefore, I want to appeal to you who are disciples, carry on the
spiris of Chriet. The doing of your very best through a braneh of the church
whish is the bedy of Christ is the fimest preparation, as far es our peeple are
coneermed, fer the spiritual warfare of the somimg recomstruction of Fast Aslm.
A letter of explamatiom to a missiomary friend imeludes the felleving
1tems. "I mm cemparime our relatiemehip to Cmrist vith that of the Imperial
Rouse and the subjects. I feel the Christiem mystie experiemee with Chriet and
our relatiemship with the Imperial House, and in particular with the Naperor.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
-14-
resemble semevhat... These nationel feelings I do not expect any foreigmers
truly to understand, fust as no non-Chrietien can understand our deep experiences."
Ome more seleetive quetation mst be siven in order to indieate the
straias wader whiah Christian leadership and Christian thougth are working in
var-time Japan. In the summer of 1939 the Mational Christian Coumsil's Bulletis
published in Japamese an article by the General Secretary of that body, eatitled
"Christiamity and the Establlshment of a New Order in Fast Lsia." The folloving
semtemses are taken from the latter seotioms of the article, headed thus: "The
Objeetive of the Preeent Affair", "The Plan and Christian Luty": "Brangeliem
in theRmergenmoy."
"when the objective of the present affair was published by the them
Premier, Prince Tonce, in l938 and was axplained at home and abroad, it was
only naturel that it should be represented ns manifesting the fundamentsl missiom
to further the will of Beaven and moreover, that its suiding spirit should be
seen simply as revealing the guidance of God. That is to may, the objective of
the affair is seen es being emphaticnlly neither war indemnity nor the meisure
of territory and sovereigm rimhts, but ns consisting only ta the setting up of
enduring Deace hy the esteblishment of the new order through the setting up of
a co-opereting 'bloc.' Indeed the obfactive is none other than that of the
re-establishment of Rest Asie using the idealism of the last, which was once
held so strongly by the grest Chinese lender, un Yet-sen, as han been menticned.
This must be * position which it is slmost imnossiboe for those to understand whe
interpret thimgs only in materialistic terms. This wsr of noa-annexetion and no-
indemnity is the only posmible method for the fulfillment of the ideml and is a
poliey of which there has been no previous sxample in the world of man. 'I have
made the earth, and created man upon it. I even my hands stretched out the heavens:
and their host heve I commanded. I have raised him up in richteousness, and I will
make straight all his ways; he shall build my city, and he shall let my exile go
free. not for price nor rewmrd, seith Jehovel of hosts.' (1s. 45112-13)
"What, then, in the plen for the establimhment of mst Asiat Ite
purpose is that of realising the vizion emblazoned on the banner of 'the whole
werld one family.' and that purpose, we must recogise afresh, coincides
spentameously with the fundemental faith of Christienity. The poliay of
extending cven to the continent our family principle that finds its centre
1n am imperial hoase so that it may bathe in its holy benevolence -- this
peliey, cam we mot see, is none other than the concrete realisation om the
sarth of the spiritual family primciple of Christimnity which looks up to
Ged as the Father of mamkind and regards mankind as brethren. This is the
Christiam comoeptiom of the Kingdom of God. The basis of the Japanese spirit
alse eeasists in thie and thms, woaderful to relate, it is ene with Christiamity.
Nay, this mast indeed be the great vey of heaven and earth. Let as veature to
uphold the Christiam 1deal so that the so-ealled New Order virtually should
beeeme symemymous with the idealism of the Kingdom of God on earth...
"The missien of our peeple grove in impertanse mnd the stage of
metivity in the Far Fest has beem greatly extemded. Our respensibility mere
and mere takee en the menaing of eteraity. That they may coaform to this, the
sharseter and falth ef eur peeple mast progress and develop: because for the
fulfillment of thie hely eaterprise Ged meeds the hel ef mem whe are verthy
of1...
"Éerein ie the reasen why we, ia thds emergenoy, mest make 1t eer
supreme and immediate daty to serve the ceaatry by presobing the Gospel ef Cariet.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
25
Stere up spiritmal strength to regulate the variems dislecatioas that the
Tair predaces withim the matiom iteelf; to help the people to make that pregress
la beth phyaique and character that will fit them for the fulfillmemt ef their
missiom: to enmable them to burn with the ideml of the esteblishment of a new
East Asia: and to stand firm in the aseurance that it will be accomplished:
thas to make us a natiom, faee to face as we are with umprecedented diffieulties.
ready to mmerifice gladly for the development of the life of the aneestral
sountry; with pemetrating diecermment, at the scme time, of the imternetiemal
sitmatiem, taking long views of the history of mankind and mbracing a wide
visiem, im firm and steadfast understanding holding on to the falth that the
fimml vietery is with truth, to urge n brece straight formard advance that
kmows me limit, all this, we believe aan be the work only of thove who share the
faith and life of Christianity.
"We have thus to demonstrate their true value by the wmy we make our
comtributiom both at home and abroad; and we believe that it is our Japanese
spirit mnifested through Christianity that can prove to be the spirit of
leadership that will mmable us to succeed in the establishment of a true
co-operating blee' by inducing all the people who are neighbors in Kast Asie
to uhare in closer co-operatiom nnd fellowship. The finel objective
and full comtent of this should be the ideal Kingdom of Vod ns revemled by
Jemue Christ."
This topic of intensified conformity during waretime muet be alosed
with two references to deeds rather than to thought. The Findings of the
Madras Comference are not being tranalated into Japanese; and the Japemicised
reports iseued in that langunge take the path of slurring and omitting a munber
of the more important preposition bearing upon the State, upon Iatermstiomal
Relatione. and upom the Cbanging Social and Economic Order. Thus a Curther
wedge of separation is driven between the thought-elements of Christians in
Japam and those of Christians eleewhere; and pastora and other lendere are
deprived of spiritual challenge and thought-fellowship which they need. One
should mot lightly pans fudement upon the considerations whioh heve lead to
limitins the Madree messnre mainly to the s!ngle concent of Evangelim, but
it ie a pity that the goapel has been reduced to the ranre of prudent amution.
The Bureau of Religions in the Eepartment of Aduaation has held
various conferences wl th representetives of the three recognimed relixioms of
Japen, consideriny war-time pregrams, Yor instanee. the Department  Aagast,
1935, expressed to the representatives a threefold desire regardimg their work
im Chimai (1) that for the time being social welfare work should be stressed
rather than direat doctrinal evangellem; (2) that the work should be done uaitedly
withim each religien, rethern tham by ench sect and éenomimmtion actimg separately:
(3) that all premebers travellimg im Chima should secure certifiontes of euthorizs-
siom from the Depeartment. Althourh these propoanls were friemdly, the pessibilities
of baremmeratic direetion are umplemsing, One might sardomically reflmct that a
mew hepe for churoh umiom has dawmed: A later conferemee wes a sis-dey emterprise
under the Jeimt saspiees ef the Gemtral Coumeil of the Matiomal Mebiligatiom Meve-
memt, and the Religious Daresm.
III. The Aatemeion of Japanese Rule
1. Gemeral Comsiderutioms
There are special probleme ef Churah and State in relatiom te the

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.91)
16
madime dapasese Bapire. Agais it 1s well to bogia vith State Shiate as the
Vellgien of matiomalim. The Iemrkeek of Relialan (Japasese) pabliahed early
in l939 am artiele on "The Mhinto Shrimes Overseas," contaiming the following
passages whioh represent fairly emough the movement of recent years that hms
developed shrimes in Choeem (Korea). Manchoukmo. and now in Chima: "The akrimes
of Shinto bring waity te the faith of our mmtien...Reveremee for the shrimes
is riah with the sigaificanee of & wolmn cath of loyalty to the grent duty ef
imprevines and comselidatins the state...The spirit of Shinto, whick is the
famdememtal direstive primeiple in the elevation of the matiomal life, mast be
utilised for the purpose of elevating the races of meighboring tesritories where
the matiomal relatiomshipe are cemplicated. Imdeed, by meane of shis spirit of
shimto foreigm peoples also must be svrangelised."
Xarlier in the present collection of materials reference hes been made
to the Government's vish to use religion in the dependencies and as a means ef
extending Japaaese influemce in Chima, imaluding the League of Xeligions. The
offieial aharacter of the latter is suggested by the statement issued in con-
mestion with the organisation meeting of the Central Chimm League of Religions
1n Shanghai. The statement deelared that the purpose of this Lemgue of Shinte.
Daddhist, and Christian bodies was to contribute toward the remlination of the
mims of the Hely ar, to establish a spiritual basin for peace in ast Asia,
and to combat Communion by a United Front of Kast Asian religions. The Premier.
Primce Konoe, was named as President of the League, with an admiral. a general,
and Coneul-Ueneral at Shanghal as *dvbers.
In praotion it has been found diffloult to put much conteat into the
work of the league, partly because of ite artifieial character and of the
divergent interests of the three main religions and their subdivisions, and
alse besmume of the natural suspicion of the Chinese toward politically fostered
religiem carried in the baggage of an unloved army. If true religion can accomplish
axything in the present situation between Japan and Chimm, it will be in spite of
the League rether than through it. There are manifold evidenees that the Japemese
Army has beem surprised and impressed  the ubiquity of the Christien Chareh in
Chim, by ite steying powers in a time when most of the pre war groupings have bees
destroyed, aad by its relations with foreign missionaries, who are ueually viewed
by the Army with dislike. Hence the gruff challenge to the Christian Charah in
Japan to get buny on a large seale in Chimm, sompeting, diverting, direeting
among the existant Christian bodies in that coustry. Many reports may be represemted
in this simple one from a sity where Japemese pastors have been refused lieemees for
their work, em the grounds that their badgets and enterpriees were too mall to
make a sreditable showing in comparisen wish the Americas-sponsored umdertakings
is the mme eity. The pesitios ef pastors who so ever to Chine with traly
evangelieal and fratermal metives is mest diffieuls, both im relatiem te the
wartime sesiety imto which they are plunged, and in relation to the propelling
ergasisatieas and constituemsies whien demand tangible results of an impessible
Kind. On the ether hand, there are politieally minded pesters ready te do
pelltieal work with Christiam commeetione as the mask er the ratiomallmation
iberefos.
These steme are presemted here met mo moch fer their referemee to
chime as esh, as to indieate the politienl east of religlen sent cut fer
Lupertal parpesee of varyias quallsies. Oae ether set of facts mast be mentiened
ae bearins upen Chareh life ia Japan, and a fartlar in the pessessiene and
ceespied territertes. Ceasership is pervesive, and perkaps the mere videly
effeetive beesese 1t is 1ll defined. Our ewa zemeral tepie ef State and dheren

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.93)
-17-
met. ia many ef its fumdemental aspects, be plaialy diseussed im publie.
ertaim beoke amd p-riedieals printed  Christian organizatioms im Japas
and abread ase confisoated or eut, and the resultint restraint is grent. The
watehfulmess and suspioien of the eninrmerie end other police for ay expression
of sesial liberalim or for outspokem intermatiomalim, is ssdly effestive is
ite restrietiom of the Christinm message. Daring the pest fifteem yeare may
theasande ef men have been selsed, tortured, imprisomed, sometimes without
imfermatiem to their familles as to what has happemnd to them! while many ethers
have lest eceupational and social opportunity. The charges, still more the
videnee, msually seem to westermere artifieial and insigmiflcant. Seldem, if
aver, are Christians imvolved as such in the harah, crude net of the poliee state,
But the general terms of "comumimm" (inaluding even the mildest of "sooiml etady
grempe" and of labor orgamimations), of "liberalism," of disrespect so the
Imperial Nousebeld, of "dangerous thourhts." of words contrary to the interests
of she State, hmve brought in many a Christian along with others.
The whole situation exemplified eleurly the view of the Oxford and
Madras Confarences that the Churah's liberty of spench, publication, sssembly.
and the like. is inseparably bound up in the issue of gen-rel liberties. One
may say that there is no discrimin tion agalmat Christians, but under a general
slavery that dos not make Christians more free to exercise their functions in
sootety. thical development of the individual and of grours is oraxped indeed
where the State attaupts a totalit rinn formntion of minde, and where masy
desisione are mece by the burenuorecy nnd the police rather than by the comscience
and the will of moral beins acting in their orn ri ht. Too often im Chrietian
eireles or im the individuml Christian hemrt, the guestiom is not, "What ought
I to do before Oodt", but rather. What ust I do, or within what range can we
ast, before the requiremmte of the xendarmerie and the rest of the State
meshamim?" The pressuree of the police and of public control are often more
drastie, more arbitrary, and with loss of understandins, where the mmbjeet
pereens are nom-Japanese (and, acoording to manifold reports, shese mild
words cover a multitude of mufferings).
2.2a1wan
It is mow necessary to presemt brief materinls upon the distinetive
developmeats im each of the main subjeet-groups under Japaaese rule, recallims
comtinually the Japanese beckground which is actively represented in the Japamese
offieials, military, and ordimry residente in the subjeot territeries. What is
said here mmst be only sugeestive, and is serionsly imadequate. Im Taiwan the
tempe of assimilation is rapidly 1ncreased. The Tormoman (Chinese) lamguage has
bem elimimted from publiontiom and from ue as a tool of eduontion. Pressure
apem she ekarehes to use the Japamese langeage has alrendy himdered worship and
fellewskip among the older people who have mot lemrned Japamese im the seheols
and eam seareely mequire a kmowledge of it muffiolent for religioue uses. In
varieus distriots efficiale have given notice that the vermacular "will be dead
frem lgh0." ahe apparent oulmimaticm of a loms precess. Oae eam senge the temper
of the peliesbareemoraey from thet fact that Chimese costege ls prahdbited and
that chimese tdels are ferbiddem, while the Shiato "gedahelf" is reguired in every
hame, erem in pastore' stadies which may be attashed te chureh bulldimes.
A witmess of the highest quality reports that sinee the begimming of
the mar street premching and evangalistie meesings have hed to be drepped; and that
Lamgearge problems nnd the effleially direeted trend have almest elimimated frem
premchins she prohetie asd other teachinge of the Old Testascnt, turaing pastere
largely te the theelogy ef the pistles. Mach is represemted in the esutious werds

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
- 18 -
of ome pastor: "A man in my community ordered me to take down the Tem Command-
ments soroll from wy study well, or at least to cut out the first commandmeat.
becmnse he says such a statement cannot be made these years." Heavy blove have
beem deelt at Christian imstitutional vork, as for example through the compulsery
replacemest of experiemeed Christian Pormosans by Japanese teachers, and by the
actual taking ever iato official hands of certain properties. The goveramest
radie has broadcast charges that all foreign missionaries are spies, and eves
has falsely reperted the erecution of two of them.
3. Chooon
In Choeen the main center of attention has been the shrine problem in
all ite ramificatioms, about which mmch has been said and written. In that master
lecal experiemce has varied so videly, and the attitudes taken by particular mis-
sions and iadividuals differ so sharply, that one can scarcely generelize. Some
are convimeed that a fundamentel issue of faith and practice has been raised, en
which mo compromise is possible. Others, whose experience has been less drestic.
and who are anxious to maintain Christinn activities with any minor accomodations
that may be neeessery, believe that serious conflict vas and is avoidable vithout
sacrifice of anything vital to the Churoh. llere we need only suggest some of the
major diffigulties at this stage. In the immortant city and region of Pyengyang.
where the issue wes most sharply raised, the Presbyterian Assembly was "nacked"
through official pressure upon the ahoice of del gates nnd upon the procedure of
the meeting. As a result, the Assembly voted to urge attondance upon the eere-
monies at the shrines, accenting the official contention that they are merely
nationalistic and atriotic; and promptly sent a delegation of its own making
to pay respects at the shrines. There hae been a serious bresk between the mis-
siomaries and local presbyteries, which injures the normel work of the churches.
The process of assimilation of Koreans to Japanese proceeds spsce. The
Korean lamguage is now employed in only two years of primary educstion, and is
ebvlously on the wey out. In many placem certain subjects must be taught by
Japanese, and the Christian schools find grest difficulty in securing persons
of acceptable charscter and intererts to replace the experienced Christian Koreans
whe mmst be dropped. During the past three years a significant percentage of lead-
ing Christian Koreann, especirlly in the field of education, have been imprisomed.
often maltreated, and sometimes driven permanently from the chosen work of their
lives. Reporters who wish te minimise the sense of comflict betweem State and
Churoh, iasist that none of these cases reprenents an attack upon religion as such
or a diserimiaation agaimnt Christians; but that the gen ral srounds for dislike was
a potentiality for leaderehip apart from the State mmchine. wen if this viev is
accepted at face value, it leeves one concerned about the pessibilities for the de-
velopmemt snd utilisatiem of choice vessels within the Church. Resently there are
simms of imeremsing objeation to the work of the Church nmong young people, and
alse the activity ef miesiomaries. Certain mative werkers have been fereed to
discourage the visits of missionaries to their lesal fields, and in ome ease a
peliee efrieer plainly said thet befere lomg the missiories would be get rid ef.
here is a comprebensive and coasiderably successful effort by the govera-
memt te abelish imdepemdent Keream erganisatiems of any type, and to see to t1 that
Christian bedies are iategrated vith er placed under the relevant Japenese bodies.
This last step ls met easily taken for the chier éemominctiems mer fer the
Christian Chereh as a whole, simee shey sreatly cutmumber the Christiams of Japen.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
-19 -
Bat it has beem dome for the Y.N.C.A., the Y.w.C.A., and seme ethere aad it has
been made clear that mo further "natiomal" orgamisation of Christians cen be made.
During the past year or two, to quote a responsible reporter, "It has become com-
pulsery for sehools, ahmrches, and almost all public gatherings to epen their meet-
ings with a repetition of the Oath of Loyal Cisisens and a bew of respeet tevarde
the East and Imperial Palace."
4. Hamohouruo
As might be expected, Hanchoukue suffers especially from exoessive pelice
astivities, based on the newness of acquisisien and the large mumbers of the Chimese
populatiem (full thirty millions) who geographieally adjoim their brothers a dosem-
fold as momerous as themselves. Eduentd and competent Christian leaders have paid
dearly for their capabilities by imprisomment and torture, often upon the flimsiest
of pretexts. The enforced sessstion of normal contacts with China has been a severe
wremoh for the Christian movement, not merely in genoral fellovship and the family
connectiome of a large part of the Manoburian membershin, but also because of
established dependence upon North Chisn centere aad Shanghal for varlous kinds of in-
stitutiomal services. Also, the educationnl reconstruction undertaken by the
Japanese has borne hard upon all efforte in sehoois above primary grede, and leaves
listle olmce for private efforts in sohools of eny sort. It seems again thet no
independent leadership is desired.
The rigor of nolice investigations end surveillance hes been so severe
that a large part of the books in Canchurin were burned, elther by the authorl-
ties or by the ownern in feer based on what hamvened to others who were charged
with possessing doubtful books. Cne onn scarcely inagine or rallow the memtality
whieh traced the boundaries of doubt in each local case. One or two ludierous
and pathetic examnles will be suggestive. From a missionary's shelvee ves takes
the perilous title, "The Faith That Rebels" (Cairns). Serious objection wes saken
to the use of the well-known hymn, "Day Is Dying in the Xest", becaune in the
Chinese cheracters it renrescnts the declining sun and shence is imagined te cast
imsimuatiome upon the Fising Sun. If these instances bring a smile, let it be
remombered that they stand for a grent impoveriehment in the loss and deprivatien of
beoks mnd periodicxls, and - partial isoletion from the general Christien commmaity
Publicatiom is preceding in Manchoukuo, but from & closely restrained list under
the economic limitations of a relstively small and poor Church, and the censor's
limitatioms alwnys at haad but never knowable.
As in Chosen, so in Hanchoukuo some miscionarien report little diffi-
culty in advancing vith strictly evangelistic work and Bible teaching. It seeme
that miesionaries from the Scandinmvian countries have on the whole less treuble
tham these frem Britain and America, who are imagined by the peliee mind to be
mequiring polisicsl imfluence for the mrke of their govermments. Hevever, there
are mmmy euthentie cases of interference and of perseeuties, oftem attributable te
the persenal shortcomimgs of all-pweerful pelice effieers or leeel offielale (Jap-
amese). Christiame have beem exoluded frem previously autherised use of skureh build-
ings, and heve been demied permission te epem mev werk. Pastors and other Christiams
have been beatem and their fresdem restristed because of their matural contact with
missiomaries, ask missiomaries themselves have beem struck and driven from meeustemed
plases of werk. Certsin poiats have been deprived of proper ministretiems bessase
of the hardship that pastoral visits brought upom lesal believers. Im eme imstamse
a sermen against opium, in emother remarks agaiast tebaceo, brought the elesing ef
a premshing conter beeanse the leonl offisisls considered them attacke mgaimst the
state in that they might reduce the sales ef the gevermment momopelies. Another
isteresting case wae the driving avay of a miosiesary who was selline to masive mere
chants Bibles printed in Makden, cech centaining en effieial permis for eale ia

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
- 20 -
Mamehoakmos this was the work of a Buddhist loenl offieial, Japenese as were all
the respemsible pereons in the reporte known to us.
5. The Oceupied Arons of China
It is better to sey little about the situatiom in the ocoupied areas ef
Chima. Whem hardahips amd abuses are reperted, it is the tendenay of the Japamese
to sscribe them to the mecessary severities and improvisatioms of warfare, and to
assmme that they will be remedied by the prampt arrangement of peace. Om the ether
hasd, the Chimese mre unvilling to admit, even by implication, that Japanese reale
will be established im the ultimate outcome of the struggle. Horeover, the time
has beca relatively short, lecal experiences have widely varied, and free/or cem-
plete reporting hms met beem nessible. Revertheless, various items in the fore-
going mmterials have already siven some indicstions of importent bodies of facts
in the relatiome of State end Church in the newly occupied territories. The Army
perceives that Christianity is influential, usnally interprets its influence in
terms of polisical dventage to the nation of the missionary, and pushes Japenese
to direct, divert, or exoel the Christian croups now related to mission ries frem
other eountries. The League of Religions is one egency for thie purpose. More
merrovly politico-military are the Pacificatiom Squade cnd certain other elements
of the dread Special ervice Section, also of the Gendsrmerie and of the Comsular
Police. A good doal of attention is paid by fficers of these services, accord-
ing to reporte from several regions, to Chriatinn organizetions, missiomeries,
and nmtive workers. Cases of arrest and torture are not infrequent, and intimidation
is gemeral. Usually the professed , rounds are political, but on occasion the author-
itiss have revealed their animus agaimst the Church as such. There 1s elaborate
gathering of iaformation (reliable and othervise) about Christien groupe and their
persennel, some of it secured through disreputable agents.
It is needless to repeat the manifold story of the direet losses of the
Christian Church by desth and destruction through bombing. looting, and coafis-
cation er ocoupation of property. Just a hint of magnituke is given by the fact
that more than twenty Catholie missionaries have been killed by violence during
the first two years of the war. Most of these iajuries onn be put down to the
general brutality with which the invasion has been carried on, indiscriminate in
the full sense of the term. Yet not a few particuler mcts against person and
property were wamistakebly deliberate in their selrction of Christian targets,
aecerding te the testimomy of excellent witmeeses. Hilitary and pelice interfer-
emee with comsunieatione and travel, and vith curremey, have inevitably damaged
shureh work. The ruin of scomomic life and of estmblished edue tion and oalture.
have dragged devn the entire Christian commmnity. Revival, wader present restrie-
tioms and diserimimatieme uren the Chinese popu'atiom, vill mot be rapid or far-
remcking. A fundameatal diffieulty is the vithdrawnl of maay Caristiam leaders
frem the eecupied areas, espesislly these engaged in edueatiemal asd medieal verk,
but alse many pastere and edueated laymes. They are umvilling to live wader the
presemt type of regime, and hepe te be mmch mere meeful in "Tree Chim". This
paragraph is enly a hint of the tragedy found im the reperte ef many missiemaries
frem sheir mmaifeld experiemses.  do met care to diseuss pelitical questions
tat car teple requires mentiem of the effests ef pelitieal aets upen the Charsh.
Japamese ferver for "The Now Order in East Asia" appears te demaad for the Justi-
fieatien ef its own imperialiem the vilifieatiom (and ultimate expalsies if de-
elared geale are schieved) ef all ether "imperielism", stretehing that term in
1ts appllestien to mem-dapamese eaterprises te emeempess metivisies ef velfare
veleeme te the Chimese. Recemt imstamees are the slesimg of hespitals, sealing
of preperties, and expuleien ef miesiomaries frem a mmber as points la twe
previnees, as part ef the anti-British movemest erganized and easried cus by the

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.72)
hébaolone sréstng fren mélstary coareh and srraté oaal damnodatéone have bosn
AEMARY ORSRRVATLONS
1. Ia dapee and the terrsseriee mater Japasese raie, ohe Chereh fiate a
poople, dovotsen to the mdlstasy state toade to bo the poiamry lgaloy, to a
degree seldem renehed even ia the mmtéemaliotie Vest.
2. Geene wolldarstw and eoat erasty to prevailing satherity are poverful
seesal habsts, imstilled by rigeroue edmsatiem nad by sesial preseere.
3. The lastvidual and velunt asy creupe are sramped by the poliee state which
la mere severe and lass equitable in prastiee shan in theery. Detasled eepervistes,
offiesals ueder inedequate mesagement.
. The eerallary of the hree sharactoristies fast neted is thet righte and
libertses fer sadiviauals and for ereupe are weak. Meral fiber in net doveleped.
beesese there ls se little reem for respemstble shesees and decisien in mettere
of impertemse for the mernl xrevth of imdividuale and groupe.
5. Ao la varyine degreee La ethee part of the wesle, there is in the Japasese
demein a marrew recinllm and matlemmlime mouriehed by semiroligiome pwecssses.
6. reaite life, fully as mmah ae privete 1l1fe, to ln meral mood. Daly a eleer.
atrene oteadard, higher aad breader than the state, mekine an Iatimate appeal to the
oowse to rmety.
7. Theee to reeeen to foee thas the yealsto of losderahsp tn the thriossen
veloptng ef nou loadovohey vill be you more aisflouls.
6. A11 tose taeete at afleeltten rapreses ahallngee to o meengere
of Ghe Good love Shas Gee Gar Pasber has made all men to be ae brothbere, anth af to
world and the tesk wate vhich te hoo anlled mo alootples. ad be not fachdoaod
mabttegrephtes) Sugpet ns, saelettas 1tee fregestly stet ateves
.
Loates, 19%.
.(
9onge. 2939.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.64)
.  ()
.T f s.
leten, 2939.
I. L, y of Jse R. Leten, 1930
7. Ragas, the ate and Religien (sa dapanese). Toye, 1930.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.93)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Dopa tment of State
HEL
Bern
Replyt Bern
1S
Thia telegram must be
communicated to anyonE
other than a Governmental
REc!d 4:58 pom
agency. (BR)
confAm.Tagor
SecrEtary of State,
THFE612.43
lVashington.
ON POLITISA
3497, JunE 10, 3 p.m., (SECTION ONE)
ADVISER
JUA2
DEPARTMENT 
2. This is Tittmann's 94, JunE 8.
OnE. The JapanesE mbassador to Holy SeE
in an interview given to the "Eurasia" nEws agency
894.404/39
on May 18 (reproduced in thE Italian political
894.404
WEElly "RELIZIONI INTERNAZIONALI" of May 29) on
the religious policy of Japan in Creat East Asia
stated that after thE cloudin: of thE JapanEsE in
811 f.404
the Phil ippines both thE Apostolic delegate to the
2943 ther gratitude for thE attitudE of justicE and
P
S
S
forces toward Catholics". ubaseador Harada further
FILED
stated that the rchbishop of anila when on his
pastoral visits repeatedly instructed thE faithful
to collaborate fully vith the JapanesE authorities
OF STATE
in the rEatoration of order and that JapanEsE
Catholics had visited all thE Islande and informed
thE faithful

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-, #S497, JunE 10, 3 P.m., (SECTION ONE) from BErn
thE faithful of the Exact intentions of Japan
thus contributing "to thE perfect understanding
betWeEn the tvo people".
AMabassador Harada also madc the folloving
statement in the interviEv. "on ipril 29 of
this yEar a Catholic association of GrEat East
Asia was organized at Tokyo undEr the lEadership
of Honsicnor Doi, Archbishop of that c ity, with
a vity to incrEaging collaboration and understanding
amon thE Catholic faithful o rEst East Asia.
It is Eagerly hoped thet all Catholics of Great
East lgia may bEcomE united in thE samE spirit of
collaboration the purposE of this aseociation."
:ARRISON
RR

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HEL
BErn
This tElegram must bE
FROM
oloscly paraphrased be-
Dated JunE 10, 1943
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (C)
REc'd 2:38 pom.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
3497, JunE 10, 3 p.m., (SECTI0N TO)
I brought the interview to the attentior of
sEveral Vatican officials nnd asked them vhether
they cared to comment. They saic that they had
known nothing until it had ap Eared in print;
that although they had the impression that there
had bEen c rEsumption of rEli-ious lifE in the
Philippines they were not altogether certain be-
caus: the Apostolic Delegate vas not permitted to
communicatE direct vith the Vaticen; that they
could not subscribt to Everything, that Harada had
said; that the correctness of uccording such an
interviev vithout first informing Vatican could
bE questioned; and that it was probablE that the
nEvly arrived JapanesE Ambassador to thE Quirinal had
brought with him the text of the interview from
Tokyo vith orders to Harada to givE it out.
Two. The ChinesE Minister herE informs mE
that hE has alvays tElegraphed to the ChinesE
Bishop

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #3497, JunE 10, 3 P m., (SECTION TWO) from BErn
Bishop Yuping, now on a visit in thE U.S.
suggesting that ChinesE Catholics should bE
warned that thE nEw Catholic association of
Great East Asia should bE recarded as a vehicle
of JapanEsE propaganda and that therEforE they
should placE no faith in it.
HARRISON
NPL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HEL
Bern
This tElegram must bE
FROM
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated JunE 10, 1943
forE being communicated
to anyonE. (C)
REc'd 2:26 pom
Secretary of State,
Washington
3497, JunE 10, 3 p.m., (SECTION THREE)
ThrEE. Dr. SiE also tElls mE that thE Holy
SEE has rEcEntly sEnt instructions to thE
Apostolic DElegate arrangE to preparE recommenda-
tions for thE nomination of a nun Er of ChinEsE
bishops after the war. Apparently therE had been
strong opposition in thE past to thE appointment
of nEv ChinesE bishops on thE art of missionary
interests and thE Apostolic DElEgatE himsElf had
been inclined to favor this point of viEw. The
action of Holy SeE Dr. Sic says may, thereforE,
bE rEcardEd as overriding not only thE rEsistancE
of thE missions, but also thE rEcommendations of
the dElEgatE himsElf. Dr. SiE is pleasEd with thE
firm stond taken in this instancE by thE Holy SEE.
(END OF MESSAGE)
H1RRISON
NPL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
EGRAM SENT
Drpartment of State
Wathingion,
"Brown"
JUIN 25 1943
9m
AMERICAN LEGATION,
BERN (SWITZERLAND).
1496
194.404/21
FOR TITTMAN.
Reference your 94 June 8.
With reference to the Japanese attitude toward the Catholic
Church and other Christien groups in the Philip ines and else-
where in the Far East there is given as background material
894.404/39
for use in such manner as you deem apuropriate information and
comment as follows:
A friendly observer who left Manila some months after the
Japanese occupation has affirmed that, contrary to the state-
ments in the Japanese Ambassador's interview, the Archbishop
of Manila has refused to cooperate with the Japanese and has
frequently been misrepresented by them in this regard. The
Department, however, has not received corroboration of these
affirmations from other sources.
Numbers of Catholic and Protestant practitioners have been
brought to the Philippines by the QUOTE Department of Religion
UNQUOTE of the Japanese Army in the Philippines to inform the
people of the Islanda of the QUOTE true intentions of Japan
UNQUOTE. There are good reasons to believe that the Catholio
Association of Greater East Asia mentioned in your telegram
M...
10-00000-1

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
- 2-
Washington.
Charge to
is also primarily a vehicle of Japanese propaganda; and that
this association may be employed to effect a breaking away
from the parent church. The friendliness manifested in
rocent years by Japan toward the Catholic Church has been
prompted largely by a desire to use the Church's framework
and authority for purposes of political education and control.
The attitude of Japan toward Protestant Churches is enlightening
in this regard. In 194l the Japanese Government forced
protestant denominations in Japan to a..algamate into one
QUOTE Church of Christ in Japan UNQUOTE from which all foreign
influences were eliminated. Si ilar organizations have been
created in North and Central China and in the Philippines.
Religious services have in many instances been altered by
introducing certain aspects of QUOTE Emperor worship UNQUOTE.
Hull
S.N.
25
好
h
as
FE:HMB:MS
PA/H
PI
FA.
der
. M..

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
1ttmann)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
e 11,104
Subject:
ppsrittin copy und transle-
tion of Tnterviev iven by Tap-
unese bussdor to the oly See.
52
8
0
E
4
6E
C
5
E
43
15
The onore: le
the secret iy of state,
i.to.
894.404/40
sir:
T have the hoior to rofer to y teie ren o.
94 of une , 1. 46, reporti an interview iven
by the Japanese mbassador to the toly See to the
"ews agency "lurasia" on the subject of the reli-
gious policy of Japan in Great  et si. The in-
terview in cuestion was reproduced in the Italian
political weekly "Relazioni Internazionali" of ay
29, 1943, and a copy cnd  ranslation thereof is be-
ing transnited erewith.
 FID' IL As reported in the ubove-rentioned
telegram, the Vatican profesees to have known nothing
about the interview until it was brount to tieir at-
tention already in print. r. Tardini, one of the un-
dersecreteries of itete at the Vatican, told me that
the Vatican Was unable to sey whether the statenents
therein were in accordance with the truth or not,
since the :ioly See had no direct contact with its re-
resentatives in Japanese-cccupied territories such as
the Philippines; all messages must pess tirough the
PS /MJN
Japanese military authorities, before reaching the
Holy
C.
riu
CC
C
DEPAR

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Holy See.
igr. Tardini further stated tnat to make
public information tist Wus obviously of such
intimate concern to the oly see without at leust
apprisin; it of the i tention of doine, so before-
hend was, in his opinion, an incorrect  ction on
the part of a diplonet cceredited to tie loly see.
Inowing that larade nas had long experience as a
diplomat, :cr. Tardini could only explain the uc-
tion by assumin: that  urada received the text of
the "interview" direct from olyo (probably brou ht
personally by the newly-arrived Japanese bussador
to the uirinal) with perentory orders to ive it
out forthwith.
espectfully "ours,
Havu H. Tittmann
Harold i. itt n
ericen charcé d'fruires
Enclosure:
Interview by Japanese
Ambassador to oly ee.
In quadruplicete to Department.
File 800
HIT/hht

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
CIIPP1ng frOm RELAZIONI INTERNAZIONALI for
May 29, 1943.
GIAPPONE E IL CATTOLICESIMO
NELLA GRANDE ASIA ORIENTALE
L'ecc. Ken Harada, delegato speciale del Governo
ligioni nazionali, con lo scintoismo ed il buddismo.
imperiale nipponico presso la Sania Sede, intervistato
La politica religiosa del Giappone si ispira a tale prin-
il 18 maggio dall'agenzia a Eurasia », ha dchiarato
cipio. I cattolici della Grande Asia Orientale ammon-
quanto segue circa la pulitica religiosa del Giappone
tano — secondo le statistiche ufficiali — a 300.000
nella Grande Asia Orientale:
nel Giappone, 13 milioni nelle Filippine, 3.000.000 in
La missione del Giappone nella Grande Asia O.
Cina, 1.500.000 nell'Indocina francese: 20 milioni in
rientale è di costituire un ordine nuovo in qucsta par-
totale; c nei territori attualmente occupati dalle forze
te del mondo, contribuendo in tal modo alla pace
armate giapponesi si contano press'a poco 15 milioni
mondiale. La sua politica è di assegnare ad ogni sin
di cattolici. Benchè tale quantità sia minima in con-
gola nazione libera e indipendente un proprio preciso
fionto alle centinaia di milioni di abitanti dell'Asia
posto, realizzando un ideale di cocsistenza e à pro
Orientale, tuttavia l'influenza spirituale del cattoli-
sperità fra le nazioni stesse. Il Giappone vorrebbe co-
cismo, con la sua storia plurisecolare, è fortissima.
sì creare un nuovo mondo nel quale cia una nazione
Non è senza ragione che il Governo imperiale ma-
potrebbe portare il suo contributo sia neì campo poli.
nifesta nella sua politica un atteggiamento di profonda
tico che economico c culturale, prendendo come base
comprensione nei riguardi di questa religione. Fin dal-
le sue peculiari qualità. Con questa linca di condotta
lo scoppio delle ostilità, il grande territorio della Cina è
è più che naturale che il Giappone rispatti e pro'cgga
s'ato disgraziatamente coinvolto nel conflito. Nume-
le religioni, le confessioni di ogni nazione, che non
rosi ecclesiastici e fedeli cattolici soffrono per questo
siano contrarie alla sua politica. Tale principio è stato
d'altronde apertamente cnunciato a varic riprese dal
stato di cose, ma le autorità militari giapponesi hanno
Primo Ministro Tojo e dalle autorità militari d'occu-
fatto e fanno tutto quanto è in loro potere per pro-
pozione dei diversi territori. I giapponesi sono molto
teggere il popolo innocen'e. Hanno prestato il loro
tolleranti in fatto di religioni importate, quali il bud-
aiuto rella ricostruzione di chiese e di edifici danneg-
dismo e il cristianesimo; quest'ultimo è del resto uff.
giati, ed hanno fatto ogni possibile sforzo per per-
cialmente riconosciuto come una delle tre grandi re-
mettere che i missionari possano continuare la propa-
gazione della fede e il loro compito di educazione e
Il 29 aprile del corrente anno un'associazione catto-
di opere sociali.
lica della Grande Asia Orientale è stata costituita a
E' degno di nota che dappertutto in Oriente, anche
Tokio con a capo mons. Doi, arcivescovo d questa
nei villaggi più remoti, si trovano missionari stranie-
città, al fine di intensificare la collaborazione e la com-
ri profondamente rispettati da tutti; essi si sacrificano
prensione dei fedeli cattolici in Asia Orientale. Si spe-
corpo ed anima con perfetta devozione. Quale grande
ra vivamente che tutti i cattolici della Grande Asia
ammiratore delle opere missionarie, esprimo loro tutta
Orientale possano unirsi in un medesime spirito di
la mia simpatia per il coraggio dimostrato nell'af-
collaborazione, anima di questa associazione. Benchè
frontare i pericoli e le difficoltà del tempo di guerra.
su una popolazione di roo milioni di anime non sá
Al momento dello sbarco delle truppe giapponesi alle
contino che 3oo.ooo cattolici giapponesi, il Governo
Filippine, le autorità militari, tenendo conto della si-
imperiale, considerando la mondiale influenza spiri-
tuazione religiosa di queste isole — 1'8o% della po-
tuale della Santa Sede, ha già da tempo voluto allac-
polazione, cioè 13 milioni di abitanti, sono cattolici
ciare rapporti ufficiali con il Governo Pentificio. Al
— avevano aggiunto all'esercito una sezione religiosa,
momento in cui la responsabilità del Gisppose è i-
che è sbarcata dinanzi al nemico sotto il fuoco dei
pegnata nel controllo dell'Asia Orientale —m
bombardamenti. Non appena tale sezione religiosa eb.
giori estensioni in conseguenza della guerra - d à
be insedisto il suo stato maggiore a Manila, prese
può felicitare che il Governo giappomese abbia stabi.
immediatamente contatto con le autorità cattoliche fi-
lito relazioni diplomatiche con la Bm Sede, sel
lippine, ed il portavoce delle forze armate giappo-
neal ha lore dichiarato che gli interessi cattolici sa-
rebbero stati rispettati e protetti, purchè i cattolici
non agissero in senso contrario all'ordine ed alla tran-
tribuire, con il mio lavoro, alía intem
quillità pubblica. Da allora è stata agevolata in ogni
rapperti.
m l ripe d vita rel. Tae modo daie

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
sure to Despatch o. 196 of June 10 1943 (Tittmann)
om "Relazioni Internazionali" for May 29, 1943.
.ranslation
Japan and catholicisn in reater ast sia.
His Excellency en Harada, Special Delegate of the Ja-
panese Imperial Governient near the oly See, when in-
terviewed on Hay 1& by the news a ency "Eurasia" made
the following statement on the religious policy of Ja-
pan in Greatef ast si.
The mission of apan in reater Last nsia is to
create a new order in this part of the world, thus con-
tributing to world peace. Tts policy is to assign to each,
individual, free, end independent nation a place of its
own, in the realization of en ideel of co-existence and
prosperity ameng the natis t emselves. Japan would like
to construct in this y a hew world in which each nation
would be eble to ead its contribution in the political as
well s the economic and culturel fields, on the basis of
"ualities peculiar to each. itn this ena in view, it is
only natural tuat Japan sno ld respect nd protect the re-
ligions and confessions of each nation as lon as they are
not in opposition to its policy. his principle, furtier-
more, has beer. openly stated o. various occasions by Prime
inister Tojo and by the military authorities in occupation
in the different areas. The Japanese are, in fect, very to-
lerant of religions introduced from abroad, such as Buddhisa
end Christianity; the latter, noreover, is officially re-
cornized as one of the three rent national reli ions, to-
gether with Shintoism and uddhis, he reli ious policy of
Japan is inspired by this principle. The Catholics of Greater
ast Asia total - nccordin to official statistics - 30o,000
in Japan proper, 13 million in the Philippines, 3 million in
China, 1 1/ million in 'rencn Indo China: altogether about
20 miilions, and in the areas at present occupied by the Ja-
panese armed forces there are about 15 million catholics.
Although this number may seen very small when compared to
the hundreds of millions of inhabitants of East Asia, never-
theless the spiritual influence of Catholicism, with its his-
tory many centuries old, is very strong. It is not without
reason that the Imperial Governent, in carrying out its po-
licy, is displaying an atti ude of profound comprehension
with regard to this religion. Since the outbreak of hostili-
ties the vast territory of China has unfortunately been in-
volved in the war. I.any Catnolic ecclesiastics and faithful
are suffering as the result of this situation, but the Ja-
panese military authorities have done and are doing every-
thing in their power to protect the innocent people. They
have aided in rebuilding damaged churches and buildings, and
have made every possible effort to permit missionaries to
continue the propagation of the faith and their educational
and social works.
It is worth noting that everywhere in the East, even
in the remotest villages, foreign missionaries are to be found
who enjoy the profound respect of everyone; they are saorifi-
oing themselves, body and soul, in acts of perfect devotion.
As a great admirer of missionary works, I extend to all of
them my sympathy for the courage they have shown in confron-
ting the dangers and difficulties resulting from the war.
Whon

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
when the capanene troops landed i. the inilippi es,
the military uutnorities, takin; into account the reli-
gious situation in these islands (80, of the population,
that is to say, 1s million inhabitants are Gatnolic),
had included in tne army a eli ious section which lan-
ded with the troops under enemy fire. As soon as this Re-
ligious Section had set up its headquarters in . anila, it
cot into touch immedintely with the Jatholic autnorities
of the Philippines, and the spokesman for the Japanese
armed forees declared to them that Catholic interests would
be rospected and protected as lon: as atholics refrained
from conducting taemselves contmary to public order and
trancuility. Fron trat motent the resumption of relirious
life was facilitated in every way. lis vay of acting was
creatly apprecinted by the atholic utnorities, and the
Apostolic Delecate,  gr. riani, s well as tie rchbishop
of  anila expressed their r titude for the spirit of jus-
tice and full comprehension suon by ne capanese arned
forces. un the occasion or nis petorul visits to the faita-
rul, the rchbishop or nila rupuatedly istrueted then
to collabor te Pully with tte coprmese aut rorities in the
restoration or order.  ur er ore,  er orparese
Jatholics visited il te irl as  i p  le faith-
rul of t.e e et itot  or pn,   corituti to
the perrect trd rotrti be we the tro voples.
on a ril 9 of trin ver   clie ssoeiation of reat
sest asia  us or anized at go urer tre leedership of
r. poi, arhtishop or tt ,i  vie to ieres
in col laboritio..
heic
Luiu  rtt iot1
Jatholics or roti  e hiten in e sme
stirit of collubor.tio, le purpose ofis kssoeitlon.
althoun out of  l tion of loo illlons tlere ure
only 300,00o cataolies in apan, e  perial overmment,
in consiuertio: of the world-wide spiritual influence of
the oly see, has ror sone time past sought to establish
official ties with the 1ontifical lovernment. At a nonent
when the responsibilit: of Japan in engaged in the control
of East Asia - more Wide-spreud because of t. e war - we
nay congratulate ourselves t t e apanese overn.ent has
established diplo. atic relations itn the :oly See, rela-
tions that are destined to beco e closer. 1ersonally, I am
most happy to contribute trough y work to the intensifi-
cation of these relations.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.96)
rittmann)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vatican City, July 10, 1943.
Subject: Japanese Attitude toward the Catholic
Church and other Christian Groups in
the Philip ines and elsewhere in Far
East.
27 2 19
4S3
6
L64
eopynan D
894.404/41
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's telegram no.
1496 of June 25, 9 p.m. 1943 to Bern, furnishing me
with background material with regard to the Japanese
attitude toward the Catholic Church and other Chris-
PS/MB
tian groups in the rhilippines and elsewhere in the
Far East, I have the honor to transmit herewith for
the Department's records a copy of an informal letter
in French, dated July 9, 1943 which I addressed to
the Cardinal Secretary of State and which embodies
the information contained in the Department's tele-
gram under reference.
894.404/39
In this connection reference should also be made
to my telegram no. 94 of June 8, 1943, and to my des-
patch no. 199 of June 12, 1943.
Respectfully yours,
Harold H. Tittmann
Enclosure:
American Chargé d'Affaires
Letter July 9, 1943 to
Cardinal Secrotary of State.
In quadruplicate to Department
F1l6 800

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.90)
ure no. 1 to despatch no. 208 (Tittmann)
July 10, 1943.
Le 9 Ju1llet 194s.
Mem aker Cardimal:
A propes de la réeente entrevue accordée par S..
Kem Harada, l'Ambassedeur du Japon près le Saiat Siège,
à l'agenee "Eurasia" (selon le compte rondu paru d ns
1'&dition du 29 Ma1 1943 des "Relaziomi Intermasiomal1")
ecmeeraant l'attitude du Gouvernenent Japonals à l'égard
de l'kglise Catholique aux Iles hilippines et aillours
en xtreme Orient, j'a1 l'honnour de vous soumettre oi-
après sertaines considérations:
Un observatour de bonne foi, et ui a  uitt& Wanille
quelques mois après l'ocoup tion japonaise, ufrirme gue
ceatrairement aux déolarntions de l' mbussadour Japonais
dems cette entrevue, l'Arehevôque de Wanille a refusé de
collaberer avee les autorités japonrises et :ue soa attitude
a Sté faussement préseatéo par eux ? cet égard. Toutefois,
le Département d'Étst m'a pas regu la coafirm tion de oes
affimtiens.
Wembreux eeelesiastiques tant eatholiques ue protes-
Baats ent 6sé Latreduits aux Iles fhilippiaes par le "D&-
partemest Religieux" de l'armée japenaise  fin que le peuple
paisse etre Lafermé "des vraies Lateatiens de Japes". I1 y
e tese liem de ereire que le but primeipal de 1':ssesiatien
Gathallome de la Gramde Asie è Laquelle 11 est fais allmsien
Aams 1'emsreveme de 1' mbassedear Japenais, est ea effet de
rigandse

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
8
répandre la prepagande japeaaise, et qu'il se pout que
cette association ait pour effet de provoquer la rupture
avee l'Eglise Rommine. La bienveillanee mmaifestée ea-
vers l'Eglise Catholique par le Japon, ces derai ères a-
nées, a été iaspirée prinoipalement par le désir de se
servir du eadre de l'Eglise et de son autorité pour s'as-
murer la formation de l'esprit et le contrôle politique
de la population des pays oceupés. L'attitude des a torités
japonaises à l'égard des Eglises Protestantes est édifiante
à cet gard. Dan le courant de l'année l94l le gouverne-
ment japonais obligea les seotes protestantes au Japon de
se fusionner en une seule "Eglise du Christ au J"pon"
(Chureh of Christ in Japan), dont toute influemce Itrangère
a §té §liminée. Des organisations samblables ont §té par
La suite Stablies en Chine du Nord et en Chine Centrale,
ainsi qu'aux Iles Philippines. Kn nombroux cas, les Ja-
pessis ont modirié les services religieux en y introduisant
certaimes praticues da "Culte de 1'Empereur".
Je saisis cette oscasion pour renouveler à Votre
minemee, les essuranees de m plus haute considération.
Herold H. Tistmann
Charg6 d'Affaires des Etats-Unis
See Imiaence
Laiai Gardiaal Maaliene.
Becrbtaire d'mtat de Sa Sainteté,
assé du Vasieen.
opy
1..ed

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
(Tittmann)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vatican City, July 27, 1943.
ject: Catholic and Other Christian Churches
under Japanese Control in the Far East.
DEPARTWERT OF STATY
9
1.1.1.1
1n ls▲
F21
Lot
The Honorable
294.404/42
The Secretary of State,
Washinton.
Sir:
With reference to my despatch No. 208 dated July
10, transmitting copy of a letter which I wrote to the
Cardinal Secretary of Stat• regarding Catholic and
other Christian Churches under Japanese Control in
the Far East, I have the honor to transmit herewith
a copy of Cardinal Maglione's reply thereto dated
July 24, 1943.
I hope the Department will continue to send me
information regarding developments in the Far East
that may affect the Catholic Church and the Christian
religion in general.
Respectfully yours,
Hamy H. I ittinam
Harold H. Tittmann
American Chargé d'ffaires
PS/JB
Enclosure:
From Cardinal Maglione
July 24, 1943.
In quadruplieate to Department
File 800
HHT/mo

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.95)
1 to despatch No.
CUY
Papal Arms
SEGRETARI, DI STATO
Du Vaticen, le 4 Juillet 1943.
DI U SANIIT
Monsieur le hurgé d'aff ires:
J'i vien regu votre comunication en te au 9
de ce mois, et j'en ai  ris co. issance vec intérêt.
En Vous remerciunt, je i s è Vous assurer ue le
aint iège suit vec be uc up u'uttention 1:s problèmes
religieux de l'Extrême uri nt, et s'emplcie a ns toute
la mesure du possible  protéger ies intéréts des l is-
sions c th li ues d ns tous les territcires ui se
trouvent avoir a scurfrir des consé uences du prés nt
conflit.
Veuillez ugréer, monsieur 1e nargé d' fruires,
mes sentiments tres distin ués.
(signed) L. Card. Maglione
Monsieur Harold . Tittmann
Chargé d'ffaires des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
près le aint iège
Cité du Vatican.
A true copy
of the signed
original

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
(Tittmann)
Vatican City, July 27, 1943.
Subjeet: Catholie and Other Christian Churehes
under Japanese Control in the Far East.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Nushinrton.
sir:
With reference to my despateh No. 2os dated July
10. transmitting copy of a letter whioh I wrote te the
Cardinal Secretury or tate regardiny Catholio and
other Christian Churobes under Japanese Control in
the Far East, I have the tonor to transmit herewith
a copy of Cardinal Maglione's re. ly thereto dated
July 24, 1943.
I nope the Department will contimue to send me
informatiom regarding developments in the Far Kast
that may affeet the Catholio Chureh and the Christlan
religion in general.
Respeetfully yours,
Harold H. Tittmann
Amerioen Chargd a'Affaires
Enclosure:
From Cardinal Magliome
July 24, 1943.
In qusdrupléeate to Departaent
7110 000
ENT/me
of n igd
orignal

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
1 to despateh No.
COPY
Papal Arms
SEGRETARIA DI STATO
DI SUA SANTITA
Du Vatican, le 24 Juillet 1943.
Monsieur le hargé d'nffaires:
J'ai bien reyu votre communioation en dute du 9
de ce mois, et j'en ai pris connaiasance aveo intérôt.
En Vous ramerciant, je tiens à Vous assurer ue le
aint iège suit avec beuucoup d'attention les problèmes
religioux de l'Extrôme crient, et s'emploie dns toute
la mosure du possible a i rotéger les intérêts des Mis-
sions catholi ues dans tous les territoires ui se
trouvent avoir a souffrir des consé uenoes du présent
conflit.
Veuillez egréer, moncieur le nurgé d' ffaires,
mes sentiments tres distingués.
(signed) L. Card. Maglione
Monsiour Barcld H. Tittmann
Chargé d'Affaires des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
près le aint siège
Cité du Vatioun.
A true copy
of the signed
original 

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
894.404
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Jaanese Attitude Toward Christianity:
Memorandum regarding -.
894.404/43
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ....Memo
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated ... Jan 17. 1942
State Dept (Langdon)
To
Far Eastern Affairs
740.0011 Pacific War/2037 48
File No.
1. 5. GOVEBRENT PRINT1NE OPPICE 1-18

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
DCR
EE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 1, 1943
DCR
Please index underlying
Special Report IDS No. 496
of August 23, 1943 and inform
Mr. Johansen (Extension 442)
of the file number.
LES
894.404/44
n
angen: AiM
894.404

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
SPECIAL REPORT IDS
No. 436
August 23, 1943
The following information was receiveu from a Lisbon source:
Tne Japanese Special invoy to the Holy See, Kn. Harada,
in n interview to the "Euras1a" Agency made & statement
:bout religious policies in Greater East Asie. The follow-
iny ueclaretions are extracts from Mr. Harada's statement :
"The Japanese are very tolerant towards the imported religions,
like uadhism anu Christianity. The latter has been offici&lly
recognized, together with Shintoism and uddhism, as one
of the three national religions. According to official stati-
stics, the number of Catholics in Greater East Asia is :
300,Oó0 in Japan, 13 million on the Philippine 1slanas,
: million in China, 1§ million in Indochina, altogether 20
millions. In the territories which are now occupied by Japanese
armea forces, there are approximately 15 million Catholics.
Although this number is small, if you compare it to the meny
hundreds of millions of the inhabitants of Greater bast Asia,
the spiritual and intellectual influence of Catholicism, with
1ts history of many centuries, 1s very considerable.Mot without
good reason, therefore, the Imperial Government of Japan
showed deep understanding for this religion in its policies...
"In China many Catholic priests and faithful suffered in the
civil war, but the Japanese military authorities did their
pest to protect the innocent people. They helped in the re-
construction of the damaged churches and other ecclesiastic
buildings and did their best to enable the missionaries to
continue their missionary work and the execution of their
social and educational tasks....
"Everywhere in the Far ast, even in the most remote villages,
you find foreign missionaries who enjoy universal respect. They
devote themselves, with body and soul, for their task. As a
great admirer of the missionary work, I wish to express my
full sympathy for the courage which they have shown when
facing the difficulties and dangers of war-time conditions.
At the moment when they landed on the Philippine Islands, the
military authorities, recognizing the religious situation on
those Islands, where 805 of the population,or 13 millions, are
Catholics, Joined a heligious Department to the Army. When the
staff had just settled down in anila, 1t got 1mmediately in
touch with the ecclesiastic authorities. The Japamese spokesman
stated to them.that the Catholic interests would be respected
and protected of the Catholics refrained from acting against
public order and safety. Since then everything has been done
to favor the new development of religious activities. The
Apostolic Delegate, Archbishop Piani, as well as the Archbishop
of Manila have expressed their recognition of the just and

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
IDS REPORTNo. 496
PAGETWO
understanding attitude of the Japanese armed forces,showing
that the ecclosiastic authorities have appreciated very much
the way in which the Japanese behaved. During his pastornl
visits, the archbishop of Wanile has repeatedly given the
faithful instructions as to their collaboration with the Ja-
panese authorities for the restoration of order, On the other
hand, numerous Japenese Catholics have visiteo the 1slend= enc
have explained to the faithrul. 1in public addresses, the reel
intentions of Japan.
"On April s9. less. in Tokrg a Cathelio Asscciatlon for Greater
Erat Asia has been tormed  lt te under the prestdency of Arch-
bishopepoi ot-rokvo lthe  usociatonchao as its alm the
cooperation and mutual understanding between the Cetholics
ofGrestrEaatArin.
"Although there are only 300,000 Japanese Catholics in Japen's
total population of l00 million, the Imperial overnment has
wished to trtmgthen its offigiel relations with the Papal
Government, because of the world-wide Ihrxmakkax spiritual
Influence of the Holy See. Personally I feel extremely happy
for the privilege to cooperate by my endeavors in making
those relations more intense.
COMMENT
The Eurasia Agency is a Nazi-controlled institution, enu Mr.
Haradn is not a Catholic himself. So the statement was obvious-
ly meant, and must be considered, as a piéce of Japanese pro-
paganda in Catholic circles.
It is not clear what the relations are between the above
mentioned Catholic Association for Greater Last Asia and the
Japan Catholrc Society, which was founded later, on July :7,
1943, at a deeting held at the Greater east Asia Ha1l in
Tokyo. Mitsuo Miyata, Member of. the House of Peers, was
mentionec in Japanese broadcasts as Chairman of that Society,
nu S: kuro Uchino, who was described as "former hief of the
Association of Romn atholics in Jtpan", as its Chief Lirector

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
IDS REPORT No. 496
PAGE TWO
understanding attitade of the Japemese armed ferces,showing
that the ecclesiastic autherities have appresiated very much
COMMENT :
ly meant, and mast be ceasidered, as è pisse ef Japamese pro-
paganda in Catholic cireles.
It 1s nos clear mhat the relatiems are betweem the above-
pentioned Catholic Associatiem fer Sreater Base Asia and the
Japan Catholic Soeiety, which was femded later, on July 27,
1943, at a meeting held at the Greater Bast Asia Hall in
Tokyo. Mitsuo Miyata, Member of the House of Peers, was
mentioned in Japanese broadcasts as Chairman of that Society,
and Sakuzo Uchino, who was desoribed as "former Chief of the
Association of Roman Catholics in Japan", as its Chief Director.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
IDS
SPECIAL REPORT
No. 633
October 14, 1943
We have checked the following information from a Lisbon source :
The Naz1 consciousness of the value of religion from a propa-
ganda standpoint is notable in an article of the status of
Christianity in Japan. According to the Tokyo correspondent of
the Cologne "Koelnische Zeitung" of August 28, 1943, the Japanese
Intend to re-establish Christianity in its original purity.
Christian moral law, he ways, has been rent to pieces by the
schisms and divergent interpretations of Europeans, and only
J:pan, whose moral law "corresponds in the most perfect and noble
way to Christianity", can make it whole again. He quotes the
many most ingenious reasons given by Japanese theologians for this.
In the first place, they claim since Christ Himself was an Oriental,
the Orient has an equal, if not greater, right to interpret His
doctrines dogmatically, since Orientals understand Jesus better than
Occidentals. Moreover, the correspondent states, Japan is called
to reassemble the pieces of Christianity because of her work in
unifying buddhism on a Japanese basis. The same must now be ac-
complished with Christianity.
Anglo Saxon influence on Japanese Protestantism, the article
says, has been entirely eliminated, and all leadership has been put
into the han s of Japanese ecclesiastics. The same is being done
for the Catholic Church, which is to be amalgamated with Protestant-
ism. In this way Christianity will be "emancipated" from all
Western influence, and, according to the German journalist, 1t will
follow the classic example of Buddhism which, aftor being Japanized,
was sble to supply Japan with a solid ideological bridge to the
Buddhist countries of the Far East, in particular Thailand and
Burma, thus making it much easier for Japan to obtain wholehearted
recognition of her role of political leadership.
Japan's intention of "purifying" Christianity is thus openly
admitted to le motivated by politics. The principle obviously is
that only the Japanese are pure, since they alone are called to
olitical leadership anc that leadership aims at a Greater East
sis which is at the mercy of Japan. But to accomplish this,
every other source of authority spiritual as well as political,
has to le subordinatea to that of Japan. This is being pursued,
not only in Japan and occupled China but also in the Dutch ist
In 1es. In the Celebes for in tance, according to a radio broad-
cast from Japan-se-cont olled zatavia, Christian denominations
nave .een merged nto one uody under the supervision of the Japanese
military regime and 2:0,O00 Ciri tians on the island of Artoina are
forving  "Christian Volunt: ry Service Association in oruer to co-
opprate with: the Japantre force: on the islandn.
reginning has een maue towar s the "unific tion of religiors
- Janese style.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT No. 833
PAGE TWO
ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION :
The dispatches of the Tokyo Correspondent of the "Koelnische
Zeitung" are much more interesting than those of any other German
press cormespondent in the Far East and often reveal new Japanese
methods in the economic and cultural exploitation of the occupied
territories.
The article which was quoted in this report concludes as fol-
lows: "The East Asiatic Japanese-controlled cultural movement
against Anglo-Saxon culenial Imperialism finds a thousandfold echo,
which becomes stronger every day, and has already succeeded in
mobilizing the racial consciousness of the entire Far East to the
extent that a return of the former colonial conditions is unthinkabl :
The German press points also out that the Netherlands East
Indies would never come back under Dutch rule and that therefore
404/45
"ermany was making the Wetherlanders the "generous" offer to use
their colonizing talents in the German-occupied "Eastern territories"
(Russia).

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.84)
REPORT No. 65S
PASB TWO
ADDITIONAL BACKGROUED INFORNATION :
The diopetehes of the Tokge Gerreependent of the
Rostnisehe
territeries.
lows: "The East Lasatie
(Russia).

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
KOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0ctober 17,1942
Reference Mr. Hornbeck's underlying me-
morandun of Octobem 13, 1942 regarding a re-
port receivehythe Netherlands Minister
that a Congrees was held in Tokyo in September
1942 for the formation of a religious league
of Greater Asia from which Protestants were
excluded.
No information has been found to con-
firm this report. From time to time this
year, however, there have been reports in
Japanese broadcasts which may be pertinent
to the Ambassador's inquiry.
On March 27, the Tokyo radio stated
that the first of a series of conferences
to coordinate Japanese religious activities
at home and abroad was held at the Education
Ministry, and on April 3, Tokyo broadcast
a report that the Imperial Rule Assistance
Association was attempting to unify Buddhism,
Christianity, Shintoism and Mohammedanism.
The Tokyo radio reported on May 13 that
at the firet meeting of the "Imperial Re-
lig1ous Federation", on May 12, plans were
made for a conference on religious coopera-
tion to be held in Tokyo by the end of Sep-
tember for the formation of a "league of
East Asia religious correspondents". The
report added that prominent representatives.
9
4

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
of religious organizations in Japan, "Manchu-
kuo", China, Mongolia, French Indochina,
Thailand, Burma, India, Ceylon, the Philippinea,
Malaya and 1slands of the East Indies would
be invited and that discussions would aim at
a coalition of Hinduism, Buudhism, Cnristian-
ity, Islamism and all other religious factions
in the "Co-Prosperity Sphere".
"Indicating that complete religious tol-
erance 1s being allowed in all parts of the
'Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere'", 8
Hsinking broadcast reported a meeting at
Peiping on September il of sixty representa-
tives of different Christian groups in China
for the purpose of making preparations for
the establishment of the new Christian organ-
ization in China.
In a broadcast of October 15, relaying
a despatch from Peiping, Tokyo stated that
for the purpose of giving legal status to
the Chr1stian Federation in North and Central
China, the Department of North China Politi-
cal Affairs promulgated a new decree on
October 13 for the supervision and encourage-
ment of Christian activities 1n North China.
FE:oper:MLS

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
ACT141942
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
Depa: tment of State
October 13, 1942.
FE:
The Netherlands Ambassador informs me that he
has received a report (from a Catholio source) that
in September 1942 there was held in Tokyo a congress
894.404/46
for the formation of a religious league of greater
Asia, at which Mohammedans, Buddhists, Shintos, eto.,
were included, Catholios were included, and Protestants
were definitely excluded (as being representatives of
American, British and Dutch thought, etc.). The
Ambassador inquires whether we have any information re-
garding this matter.
3118
171943
FILED
PS
6/KN
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
Upland, Tndiana, Hay 8th 1944May 15. 1944
le
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 111944
The Honorable Josoph Crew,
auswired
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Washington D.C.
Department of State
Dear Sir:
Being somewnat od a stadent of Oriental affairs,( I spent 18
years in the foreign service of the Methodist Church in Bengal, India) I have
often wondered at the irony of history, that we should he engaged in a life
and death struggle with a Buddhist nation. I realize that Japan is not merely
Buddhist in religion, but also has its own native Shinto. But even so, such a
not/ large portion of its culture and civilization is Buddhist, that one can/help sus
pecting that the lesson of ahinse (non-hatred), can never have strunt deep
roots in the apanese people.
The world is used oo seeang Christian nations in mortal com-
bat about every ge eration or oftener, yet this is the first tame, I believe,
that a nation, even nominally end parrly Pud hist,is engaged in a military entor
prise of such magnitude, and against a Christian nation
The explanations given, such as the militarists in Japam, thecrowded
population problem, the fear of a regenerated China, commercial aspirations and
r.eeds,all thesee explanations have their place and weight, but they clearly are
not the whole story. Iust one concluce that Sud hism is no longer a rest raining
power in the Orient, notatly not in Japan?-
Perhaps it could be said, that other Bud hist nations have car-
ried on long and bloudy war, Chana for instance. but China has never been a real
warlike nation. The Christian Wost ahs fought long and bitterly with Islamio
countries, presumably on account of their nearness to Europe.The time seems to
have come now, when the Christian Test has to settle affairs with Asia, that is
Eastern Asia.
"hat is your opinion, how will the defeat od Japan affeet the
894.404
religious situat ion in Japan, as well as in other Buddhist countries. Some of
my friends, missionaries and other churct folk, ser great and bright prespects
for Christian propaganda at the close of this war, but I can not quite make up
my mind to see things in such rosy tints.
I had one of your speetkes on Japan, but I have lost or mis-
laid it. It will be asking too much,I am sure, for à staement of your opinion
on such questions, but if you have some of yoyr opinions in print, I shall mueh
appreciate if you could let me have such material.
lost sincerely yours,
S. Z. Sihangler
PS/JF
32
C. L. Sehanslin.
P.S. It is clearly a childish over-simplirication to tdk out
4
Hirohito, as has become so common now.
S.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
Mav 15, 1944
My dear Hr. Sohanzlin:
The reoelpt is aoknowledged of your lotter of
May 8, 1944.
You state that you have "often wondered at the 1rony
of history, that wo should be engaged in a life and death
struggle with a Buddhist nation", Japan, whereas other
Buddhist natlone have not been aggressively warlike. Al-
though this matter involves too many questions of opinion
and Interpretation for me to attempt to disouss it in this
letter, I venture to polnt out that the Japanese have
adapted Buddhism to thelr own charaoteristios and polloles
as they have most or their cultural and material borrowings
894.404/47
894.404
from other countries and that the hietory of Japan 1s
studded with aote of violence and even warfare by Buddhist
seots.
I em afrald thst I oannot offer an opinion as to the
offect the defeat of Japan will have on the religlous
situation in that oountry. This, I belleve, is one of
the many questions to whioh no one can as yet prediet the
answer with any confidence.
Your expression of 1nterest in my speeches on Japan
1s appreelated and I am glad to enolose copies of a few
which I hope will interest you.
The self-addressed stamped envelope enelosed with
your letter is returned herevith.
Sinoerely yours,
Jeseph C. Orew
Direster
13 1944 P
Offiee of Far Eastern Affairs
e copy of
gued origi-

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclesures:
1. Prose Relegse No. 299,
July 10, 1943.
Nevember 16, 1943.
December 4, 1943.
4.
Address delivered
Janmary 6, 1944.
February 26, 1944.
6. Belf-addressed stamped
envelope.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA AND THE CATHOLIC CHURCH IN THE
OCCUPIED AREAS
9o hatunalin
Tne attitude of the Cnurch toward its relationship to
894.404
the Japanese state was given official expression in the
instruction from the Congregation "Propaganda Fide" to the
394.404/48
Most Reverend Paul Morella, Apostolic Delegate to Japan,
dated May 25, 1936, concerning the duties of Catnolics toward
their country. In this document the Catholic priesthood 1s
instructed that "the missionaries, therefore, have the duty
both to acknowledge and respect the devotion and love of
the Japanese for their country ana also to teach these senti-
ments to the faithful, lest in patriotism they be inferior
to other citizens". The instruction goes on to accept the
Japanese official explanation of the Sninto rites as being
for merely civil purposes and it states specifically that it
is lawful for Catholics to join in such rites. In this
1nstruotion the Catholio Church doubtless deliberately
went as far as it could to placate the nationalistic attacks
being mado within Japan on Catholicism, but it did not aot
1noonsistently

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
inconsistently with the historic attitude of tne Churcn,
which would appear to be that it cannot withhold spiritual
benefits from any particular group because that group is in
conflict with others which it also serves.
II. The Japanese reaction to this Attitude.
There 1s eviaence, however, that tne Japanese have
either sincerely misunaerstood or are deliperately exploit-
ing this attitude on the part of the Catholic Church. In
Hongkong, as throughout the occupied territories, consider-
able publlcity was given to actions of the noly See which
were interpreted as favorable to the Axis and to Japan.
A ome1 message from Lisbon of January 16, 1942, for
instance, quoted a message from Vatican City as stating
that while the Conference of Pan American Foreign Ministers
was being held at Rio de Janeiro ana the American Govern-
ment was doing everything it could to involve Latin America
in the war. the Vatican had, through the usual diplomatic
channels, clearly indicated its opposition to any such
extension of the war to Latin America.
The

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
The appointment of Mr. Ken Harada, the Acting
Minister to Vichy, a Japanese Curistian converted to
Catholicism when he married a Japanese Catholic, was
prominently reported in poth the Chinese- and English-
language press in Hongkong and propably throughout the
occupied territories. These reports quoted the statements
of the Holy See and of "the Pope's representative nere";
the latter 1s supposed to have said, inter alia,
"We are in a unique position to win the confidence
and friendsnip of the Japanese Government".
He is also alleged to have said tnat the estaplish-
ment of relations with the Vatican would permit the world
to become better acquainted with Japan's true value. Tne
same reports quoted fullsome Italian and Spanish comment,
the Italian press attaché in Tokyo being quoted as naving
estimated that there were 18,000,000 Catholics in the "co-
proeperity sphere", and that the great attention which
Japan paid to the spiritual side of human life was respon-
sible for much of her brilliant victory.
These reports were followed from time to time by
others

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
others of the same coloring. In the nongkong News of
April 8, 1942, the Right Reverend H. Valtorta, Vicar
Apostolic of Hongkong, is quoted in tnree-column headlines
as expressing joy that the Japanese should now be repre-
sented at the Vatican, "both on account of the many
Catholics in Japan itself ana the many millions of
followers of the faith who have now come under her juris-
diction."
"Japanese Catholics are among the finest in the world",
he is supposed to have continued. "The Church has gained
very great consideration among all classes in Japan be-
cause Japan is a land of order, and I am sure the people
there admire the order and unity of the Catholics, just
as the Church is certainly pleased witn conditions in
that country. I shall be glad if the Japanese Minister
to the Vatican and the Chinese Minister would meet together
.....helping in the making of a good lasting peace between
the two countries." Bishop Valtorta was also reported
as being "full of praise for the Japanese authorities".
It need hardly be stated that an interview of this sort
served

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
served the Japanese in Hongkong as almost perfect propa-
ganda: it placed a great western religion in an attitude
of proper reepect to the Japanese; 1t praised Japan and
the Japanese authorities; and, vis a vis the Cninese,
suggested that the two nations should come to terms under
circumstances whicn opviously greatly favored the Japanese.
After the appointment of the Minister to the Holy
See, every visit which ne paid to the Vatican was fully
reported, and it is several timee stated that the relations
between the Vatican and Chungking were severely strained.
On the subject of the appointment by the Japanese of a
representative to the Vatican, a report from Rome of
June 12, for instance, stated that Chungking nad vigor-
ously opposed the Japanese appointment of such a repre-
sentative, whereupon the Vatican had immediately recog-
nized the Nipponese request. On the other hand, when the
Japanese opposed the appointment of a Chinese represen-
tative, the Vatican delayed action, from which Domei
draws the conclusion that the relations between the
Vatican and Nippon are excellent. This use of the
Catholio

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
Catholic Church in Japanese propaganda may be instanced
by a whole series of news ana radio broadcasts of which
the following may serve as examples:
A Tokyo Domei proadcast early in January stated that
37 fathers of the Dominican missionaries of Hongkong headed
by Fatner Albert Maria had sent a message to the Dominican
Order in the Philippines stating that "we are enjoying
the protection accoraed by the Japanese Army...the Philip-
pines are about to come under the guidance of Japan...
our confidence in Japan is absolute...we have pledged
our fullest cooperation in eliminating the forces of
Americanism from East Asia."
A Domei message from Manila on January 8, 1943 and
which 1s believed to have been widely broadcast throughout
Asia stated that the "Irish Archbishop of the Catholics
in the Philippines" had asked Philippine Catholics to
eliminate all actions inimical to Japan and thereby help
to preserve belief in the Philippine Commonwealth. The
Most Reverend Michael J. O'Dougherty appears in several
other

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
other of these propeganda broadcasts. On June 26, 1942,
for instance, a Tokyo proadcast claimed that ne had just
completed a series of five lecture tours through the
Philippine Islands "to make tne Catnolics fully understand
the significance of the Greater East Asia war". This
report was prominently displayed 1n the Hongkong News in
Hongkong, which asserted that "the sixty-eight year old
Archbishop of the Catholic Church nere who has been taking
an active part in bringing new life to the religious recon-
struction of the Philippines recently sent a message to
all members of the Roman Catholic Church urging the neces-
sity of cooperating with the Nipponese. The message
explained that all Catholics should take a prominent part
9
in bringing new life to the Philippines and stressed the
importance of churches in the construction of a new oraer
in East Asia."
On January 20, a spokesman of the Japanese Board of
Information explained that Japan's aim was not against
the Catholio Church "which has been so friendly toward
Japan". The spokesman referred to a meeting in Tokyo on
January 12

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
January 12 at which Bishop Montrian and twenty-four other
religious representatives had met with the Japanese author-
ities and "agreed most willingly to cooperate intimately
henceforth with the Japanese in their constructive under-
takings in East Asia." A similar interview took place
between the Japanese authorities of the religious section
in Manila and Archbishop Dobossa and ten Catholic priests.
At tnis meeting the Arcnpisnop is alleged to have said
that the Japanese people aim "for exactly what we Catholic
believers ardently desire". "We firmly pledge our hearty
cooperation."
Japanese radio and news commentators have made
numerous and repeated references to the cooperation which
they allege they have received from members of the Catholic
hierarchy. A typical instance of such a reference
occurred in the Tokyo broadoast on August 25, 1942 in
which it was said that the Japanese did not mi streat the
Catholio Church in the Philippines, it being "one of the
purest moral forces on earth. The Vatican and Japan
have for many years maintained good relations."
It

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-9
It has also been characteristic of Japanese propa-
ganda to claim that its devoted treatment of Catholicism
and of followers of that faith distinguished it from the
Anglo-Saxon powers. On April 14, 1942, for instance, a
Tokyo broadcast claimed that the Archoishop of the Philip-
pines had stated that "in contrast to the Americans who
persecuted the Catholics in the islands about forty years
ago, the Japanese military are protecting them and giving
them every care". Tnis general attitude of the Japanese
Army authorities was reported as being highly appreciated
by Catholic leaders in the Philippines. A proadcast of
August 21, 1942 claimed that the Pope had donated money to
wounded Japanese soldiers; i.e., that the Apostolic Dele-
gate in Hongkong had given #45,000.00 to Governor General
Isoga1 for wounded Japanese soldiers. Another broadcast on
August 25, 1942 alleged that "Japanese soldiers through
their heroic sacrifice have ocontributed toward the stabili-
zation of the Catholio Church in East Asia."
On September 21, 1942 1t was reported from Manila
that a mass had been celebrated there in the Church of
Saint Vinoent

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
Saint Vincent de Paul in honor of Takayuma Yukon, a
Japanese Catholic martyr who met his death in the Philip-
pines 327 years ago.
In a broadcast monitored on October 24, 1942 Tokyo
stated that the Catholics in the Philippines "are showing
a positive attitude of cooperation with the Imperial
forces...a Joint memorial service for Imperial officers
and men and for Filipino officers and men will be held
with masses for their souls on All Saints' Day."
An even more significant statement was made in a
broadcast monitored on November 12, 1942, being 1n part
as followe: "as a result of the untiring efforts of the
Arcnbishop of Manila the Japan-Philippine Catholic Asso-
ciation will be formed shortly. On November 10, thirty
representatives of the Catholic movement led by Bishop
Herraro conferred with the Japanese representatives for
the early establishment of the association. As the first
step toward cooperation, the Filipino branch will dis-
patch a good will mission to Japan! A further broadoast
monitored on January 7, 1943 stated "the relig1ous cooper-
ation between the Japanese and the Filipino people has
been

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
been advanced another step with the first issue of the
Catholic magazine 'Tapagturo' which was recently placed on
sale throughout the Philippines. This magazine is printed
in Engliah and Tagalog, and is the organ of tne Japan-
Philippine Catholic Association and is eliciting popular
acclaim among the Filipino Catholics. Ninety year old
(Cesar Mario Dellero) Auxiliary Bishop in Manila, the
Reverend Paul Yoshigaro Takuch1, Dishop of Osaka, and otner
Catholic leaders contributed articles in the first issue
of this magazine, expressing gratitude for Japan's careful
consideration of freedom of religion in the Philippines.
Bishop Dellero stated that the Philippine Catholics will
use all means at their disposal to promote good will and
understanding between Japan and the Philippines."
In a broadcast monitored on February 22, 1943, and
which was evidently reporting some ceremony in which the
Japanese General Tanaka 1s reported to have urged 15,000,000
Filipino Catholics through their recognized spiritual leaders
to direct their efforts toward the attainment of independence,
Mgr. P1an1

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
-12
Mgr. Piani is reported to have stated, presumably in reply,
that "1t was a privilege and great honor" for him to
express publicly his gratitude to the Commander in Chier
and to the Director General of the military administration
for all their efforts and benevolent consideration.
A broadcast of April 10, 1943, stated that an Inter-
national Catholic Friendship Soci ety would be founded in
Tokyo on the Emperor's birthday, April 29, as a means of
tightening the bona of friendship among Catnolics of all
Greater East Asia. Archbishop Tatsuno Do1 would be Presi-
aent, this report stated. A subsequent report monitored
on the first of May, 1943 alleged that the Friendship
Society of Japanese ana Overseas Catholics had been inaugu-
rated at Tokyo on April 29.
The foregoing instances of the effort of the Japanese
military to absorb the functions of the Catholic Church in
occupied territories into a large and over-all propaganda
vehicle are cited here as evidence of this purpose and not
because they are believed to accurately reflect the facts.
The Catholio Church in Japan and in the Philippines and
other parts of the territories now controlled by the Japanese
nao

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-13
has doubtless followed a coneistent policy of affording
spiritual comfort and support to any believer who came to
it regardless of his political or national allegiances.
The degree ana success with which the Japenese have used
the Church for their own mundane ends has resulted from the
fact that the Japanese people as a whole, as well as other
Asiatic peoples, have accepted the protestations on the
part of the Church of its peaceful and religious mission as
meaning no more than does the usual polite disclaimer
clothing any Eastern initiative, while the practical acts
of the clergy have lent themselves to aeliberate distortion
by Japanese propagandists, in whose interest it 1s to
propagate the belief that the Catholic nurch is at least
not unsympathetio to their objectives; it is probable that
they have been at least partially successful in conveying
that idea to their subject peoples throughout Asia.
III. End Resulta.
From the brief review set forth above of the efforts
of Japanese propagandists to distort the attitude of the
Catholic Church in the ocoupied areas, we may thus conclude
that

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
-14-
that it is probable that the Japanese nave been at least
partially successful in conveying to their subject peoples
throughout Asia the idea that the Catholic Church is not
unsympathetic to their objectives; that it may in fact
have lent itself to the deliberate promotion of Japanese
aims in the so-called "greater East Asia co-prosperity
sphere". But in considering the end results of this
Japanese success in political warfare, there are two
further important observations which it is believed should
be kept in mind:
1. In spite of the Japanese professions of a
generally benevolent attitude toward the Catholic
Church and its faithful in the conquered areas there
would appear to be considerable evidence of an atti-
tude on the part of the military of hostility and
animosity toward the Church. The writer reealls
sccuned
in which priests were bayonetted and one in which nuns
there have been
were alleged to have been raped;
reliable first peromsregat
Cauons
treatment

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.94)
-15-
treatment of Catholic fathers and nuns by the Japanese
that could not be described as other than barparic.
cannobe
bust
situation rs Indicated in several recent nows reports,
anch as thatappearing in the New York Times of
June 20. 1943 1n wnicr tne Vatican radio complains or
tha aituation of the Amerioan Catholic fathere in-
ngag On  tho andthe devotion of the
Church to its Cnristian principles has led to the
miseimarin,
 have suffered, or even of formal complaint to
the American authorities on the part of priests and
nuns who have been subjected to barparous treatment.
This circumstance in itself has probably been mis-
understood in Asia.
appear
2. Thus, although it would seem more ltkety
that it has been the highest motivations of the
Catholic faith rather-then
bean saged upa
Rapel paliey that have laid tnd Ohakoh apen to

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
-16
expn by the Japanese in the pursuit of their
↑
imperial purposes, it must not for a moment be for-
gotten that the successful achievement of those
purposes would almost certainly reduce Christianity
to a mechanism of cultural control of no higher place
than the parallel organs of the Buddhist, Muslim
and Sninto faithe, and would insure tne ultimate
destruction of tne position and iniluence of the
Catholic Church throughout Asia.
auq 22,1943
CP:RSW:ES

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
INCOMING
DIVISION:QI
COMMUNICATIONS
TELEGRAM
STATE
AND RECORDS
RH - 511
PLAIN
Bern
OE
Dated August 24; 1944
894.404/8-2444
AUG 2644
Office of
Secretary of Stat
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
301944
Washington.
DEPUTY DIRECTOP
Dopartment of State
5536, Twenty-fourth
German Protestant press discussing situation
Japanese Protestants states: Three divinity schools
opened May 1943 including one for Eastern Japan at
Tokyo in former Presbyterian Divinity School, for
Western Japan in Christian University near Kobe
and for women at Tokyo all with 3 and 6 years courses.
Efforts to unite as transitional solution 33
denominations into ll ecclesiastical comminities
now abandoned as unworkable in favor district system
on provincial lines in model old Prussian Protestant
Union. Protestant community established under
Methofist Bishop Association for support homeland
with funetion of placing material forces church
inolufing financial resources at disposal Government
FILZD
during war. Clergymen under 50 required work 60 days
annually in munitions plants. All Anglo-Saxon
missioneries either lert Japan or iaterned:
Misstonaries

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- #5536, Twenty-fourth, from Bern
Missionaries of German East Asia Mission permitted
to continue their activity and are now serving as
advisers to Japanese church missionary Limar
Hennig particularly active in latter regard.
HARRISON
BU
MRM

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.93)
EA
WE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Madrid, Spain, November 1, 1944.
No. 3336
Subject: Religious Community on 1sluna of Saipan.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
九l
Washinton,..
(e.1)
Cir:
I nave the nonor to transmit herewith for the Lepart-
ment's information and recorus a copy of a first person
comaunication from the Ambansador to tne Foreign Minister
dated October 1e, 1944 enclosint a report from the Inited
States aval Isiand omnanuer of Saipan on the welfare of
the Roman Catholic Religious Comaunity on that island,
and a copy of tne Forein inister's renly, together with
trunslation.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
6 hoJue
W. Walton Butterworth
Counselor of Embassy
Enclosures:
As stated.
File No. 310
FB/mvw
In single copy to Department
(For Ozalid Machine)
h
C
b
11-144

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 3336
Madrid, Hovember 1, 1944
Madrid, 25 de octubre de 1944
MINISTERIO DE ASUNTOS EX ERIORES
B. 4
Num. 806
Excno. Senor
Muy Senor mio: Al scusarie recibo ae su
atta. Nota fecha 19 o 1os corrientes, tento
la honra de darle las mus sincerus pracias por
ros detallados informes que tiene la amabililad
de comunicarme acerca ael estado de religiosos
y religiosas espanoles que se encontraban en lu
Isla de Saipan y sotre los caules fueron
interesadas noticias de V.. por el Reverendo
Padre Luis Chalbaud, S.J. de las Residencia de
la Compania de Jesus en logrono.
Me es grato, con este motivo Senor Embajador,
reiterarle las seguridades de mi alta consideracion.
(Signed) Lequerica
Exomo. Senor D. Carlton Joseph Huntley Hayes,
Embajador de los Estados Unidos de America

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 3336
Madrid, November 1, 1944
TRANSLATION
Madrid, 25 de octubre de 1944
MINISTERIO DE ASUNTOS EXTERIOXIES
B.4
Num. 806
ost Exceilent Sir
My aear Sir: In acknowledging the
receipt of your kine Note of the 19th of
this month, I have the nonor to express to
you the most sincere thanks for the informa-
tive details which yoi nave had the kindness
to sena me concernin tne ..elfare of Spanish
priests and nuns on tne Island of Saipan and
about whom you obtainea this information for
the Reverend Father luis halbaud, 3.J., of
the Residence of the Society of Jesus in
logrono.
I am pleased on this occasion, ir.
Ambassador, to renew to you the assurances
of my high consideration.
(Signed) Lequerica

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch Ho. 3336
Hadrid, Xovenber 1, 1944
Madrid, October 19, 1944
Excellency:
I have the nonor to inform Your excellency
that in response to a request from tne Reverend
Luis Chalbaud, S.J., of tne Residence of the
Company of Jesus in Logrono, I made inouiry
through the appropriate channels concerning
the welfare of the Religious Community on the
island of Saipan. A reply has just been re-
ceived rom the nited States Naval Island
Commander of Saipan which I take pleasure in
enclosing, with translation, for the information
of the Ministry.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances
of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
Enolosure:
Report as stated.
Translation of same.
His Exoellenoy
Don Jose Felix de Lequerioa y Erquiza,
Minister for Foreign Affairs.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 3336
Madrid, November 1, 1944
INFORLE DEL JEFE NAVAL NORTEAMERICANO DE LA ISLA
DE SAIPAN SOBRE LAS COMUNIDADES RELIGIOSAS DE LA ISLA.
-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-
"En la isla de Saipan heoie, al producirse la invasión
norteamericana, las siguientes religiosas católicas:
No n b r e
Añoε en
Necionalidad
la Isla
Madre Mercedes González, Wadre Superiora
Colombiana
Madre Teresa Jortázer
Española
Madre Pis e Goicoechea
Española
Madre Angelica S:laverria
Espccola
Ladre Joequina Revuelta
Española
Sor Aurore Chopitee
Españcla
Sor Genoveva Garate
Jolomlisns
"To.cs estas r ligioses puitececen c ls orden de "Yercedarias
ce Bérriz" c  tiene su seue en Bárriz (Vizcaya)."
"Sor Genoveva murió curante el ataque contra Saipán. Por lo
que se na pocido averiguar, Sor Genoveva Gárate padecia del corazón,
y los continuos treslados ε pié iupuestos a las religiosas eviden-
temente egravaron su estado. Parece ser que uurante un cañoneo
sufrió un etaque al corezón y falleció in edietamente. Se ha
localizaco el lugar conde fue enterrada y se espera que su cedáver
recibira pronto la adecuada sepultura."
"De las otras seie religiosas, sólo una se encuentra en mal
estado de salud: la cdre Pie de Goicoechea. Está atendida en el
Hospital de Etapas No. 369, pendiente de una intervención quirur-
gica en un tumor fibroideo en la matriz, cuye operación se prac-
ticara tan pronto como haya recuperado suficientes fuerzas para
resistirla. La Madre Superiora esta ahora con ella, cuidándola."
"La Medre Angélica Salaverria fué herida durante el cañoneo
que produjo la muerte de Sor Genoveva Gárate. Un trozo de metralla
le rozó el hombro derecho ocasionéndole una herida superficial
que está yá ourada."
"Todas las

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2-
"Todee las reli iosas llegeron al campamento civil el 9 de Julio
de 1944, y plli han permanecico cesde entonces, salvo en los casos
citados. Debe señalarse que el saceraote misionero y el hermano que
se incican a continuación llegaron tambien con les religiosas. Estas
disfrutan ahora de buena salud y se ocupan de trabajos de beneficencia,
dando clases a los niños Chanorros cel Campamento de Susupe."
"El 9 de Julio de 1944, junto con las reli iosas, entraron en el
Campamento de Susupe el sacer ote isionero  el hernano, que son los
siguientes:
Non bre
A.e  1 Ir la
cionalidad
Padre Jose Terdio
14
Español
Hermeno Greorio Croquicta
2
Espeñol
"Lo os so Jies.   e      c Susupe
y continuan su otre isiolic  le los hamorros. Allbos ezan de
buena salud.
"E enerel, mo se hc celraco misa e S iptn desde Agosto de
1940, cuanco los jepoleses se iucautaron ce lc i lesia católica de
Gerepen pars convertirls en sl acén. S per itió el sscercote y al
hemano que prosi uiesen sus cctivicaces, pero no cisponian de iglesia,
aunque seguian habitanco en le rrctorfe hesta Varzo de 1944. Tambien
las monjas si vieron vivienco en su local situaco en la calle diagonal-
mente enfrente de 1s iglesia. Sin embergo, en Diciembre de 1941 se les
prohibió que prestasen  as servicios, imponiéndose a las religlosas y
religiosos una detención domiciliaria. S lvo un breve periodo de
movimiento restringido, est: situación prevaleció haste Marzo de
1944, cuando se expulsó de la aldea a tolos los miembros de la comuni-
dad religiosa, ooligándoles a huir a los montes bejo la continua
vigilancia de la policia japonesa. En darzo de 1944 se expulsó tambien
de la aldea a todos los Chsmorros y Kanekas. A principios de 1944 se
persuadió al Gobernador japonés para que permitiese la celebraoión
restringida de oficios religiosos dentro de la demarcación de la aldea
de Garapán, pero los servicios generales siguieron prohibidos."
"Durante la

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
"Dureate le ayor parte del tiempo que permsnecieron en
los montes, los sacerdotes estatan separedos de las religiosas,
y hasta los primeros dias de Julio no pudieron reunirse en una
granja en el extremo septentrional de la isla. Por lo que ha
podido averi uarse, no fueron de hecho altratados, pero la
policia japonesa oolieó a les monjas & trasladarse hacia el
norte, por elente cel vance nortearericano, haciendolo gene-
ralmente ce noche y frecuente ente por cerroteros sometidos a
todos los peligros de csnoneos, o. r rteos, claabredcs con
corges electrices, tc.  no cr si o por la arude cue les
prestó una jóven Chamorro, criada (e las religiosas, es proba-
tle que huciesen sufrico rsves tresiornos en varias ocasiones
y posiblenente la auerte."
"Todas se encontraben en lamentable estauo, a causa de la
deficiente alimentación, cgua corrompiaa y agotaliento general
bajo el trato reci ijo ce los japoneses. Sin embargo, como se
ha indicado antes, todas, excepto la Vadre Pia de Goicoechea,
han recuperado su salud y han reenudado su trabajo. El sacerdote
celēbra shora misa tocos los cias, asi como otros servicios que
el caso exija. Puede añadirse que toão el personal religioso
esta muy cgradecido por el trato y ayuda que he recibido de los
Norteamericanos, tanto de los destacados en el Csmpamento de
Susupe como de los que han entrado en contacto. Se les ha faci-
litado el vestuario y los objetos necesarios para proseguir su
obra."
"Il sacerdote y el hermano han visitado su iglesia de Garapán
y se han llevado al Campamento los articulos que han solicitado
para el cumplimiento de su misión. La iglesia ha sufrido bastantes
daños producidos por las granadas, pero el sacerdote orée que
puede ser restaurada."
-8--------------------------8-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 3336
Madrid, November 1, 1944
REPORT FRJM THE NIT ED STATES NAVAL ISLAND
COMMANDER OF SAIPAN ON THE RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY
ON THE ISLAND
On the island of Saipan at the time
of the American invasion there were the foll-
owing Catholic nuns:
Years on
Name
Island
Nationality
Mother Mercedes onzalez
Hother Superior
5
Colombian
Mother Teresa Cortazar
16
Spanish
Mother Pia de Goicoecheu
5
Spanish
Mother Angelica Salaverrio
Spanish
Mother Joaquina Revuelta
Spanish
Sister Aurora Chopitea
1€
Spanish
Sister Genoveva Garate
9
Colombian
All of the foregoint nuns re members of the
order "Mercedarias de Perrez," wnich order has
its mother chapter at Perrez, Viscaya, Spain.
During the uttacr on aipan, Sister Genoveva
(arate dica. ns far us can  e determined, she
had suffered fro. a heart condition and the
continuous movin about afoot which was impo ed
upon the nuns evidently ar gravated the condi-
tion. During a shellint she appears to have
suffered a heart attack and died immediately.
The loeation of her : rave hes been determined
and it is expeoted that the body vill be siven
proper interment shortly.
of the remainint six nuns, only one is in
poor health. She is other Pia de Coicoechea.
Mother Fia is in the 369th Station Hospital
pending operation for fibroid of the uterus
which operation will take place as soon as she
has been built up enough to withstand it. The
Mother Superior is staying with her at present,
caring for her.
Mother Angelica Salaverria suffered a
wound during the shelling in whioh Sister
Genoveva Garate died. A piece of shrapnel
passed through her right shoulder causing a
superficial wound which is now healed.
All of the nuns arrived at the Civilian
Camp on 9 July 1944 and have been there except
as noted since that date. It should be noted
that the missionary priest and brother to be
montioned later also arrived with the nuns.
The nuns are now in good health and are
ocoupied with welfare work and classes for
the Chamorro ohildren at Camp Susupe.
On

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Report from the United States Naval Island
Commander of Saipan on the Religious Community
on the Island.
On 9 July 1944, vith the nuns, the missionary
priest and brother also entered Camp Susupe. These
men are the following:
Years on
Name
Island
Nationality
Father Jose Tardio
14
Spanish
Brother Gregorio Orocuieta 23
Spanish
Both of the above men are Jesuits. They
are now living at Camp Susupe and continue their
missionary work among the Chamorros. Both are
in good health.
Mass has not been celebrated tenerally in
Saipan since Autust, 1940, When the Japanese
took over the Cetholic Church of Garapan for
a warehouse. The priest and brother were per-
mitted to continue activities but had no church
although they continued to live in the rectory
until March 1944. The nuns also c ontinued to
live in their house wnich was diagonally across
the street from the church. However, in December
194l, all further services were forbidden and
the nuns and priests vere placed under house de-
tention. This situation continued vith but a
brief period of restricted movement until March
1944, when all members of the religious community
were expelled from the town and forced to move
into the hills under the continued surveillance
of the Japanese police. In March 1944, all
Chamorros and Kanakas were also expelled from
the towns. During the early part of 1944, the
Japanese governor was prevailed upon to permit
the limited performance of rites within the area
of the town of Garapan although general services
remained forbidden.
During most of the period that they were
in the hills, the priests were separate from
the nuns and it was only within the first days
of July that they came together at a farm in the
north end of the Island. As far as can be
learned, they were not aotually maltreated, but
the Japanese police foroed the nuns to move
northward ahead of the American advanoe, usually
at night, and frequently along routes that
subjeoted them to all possible dangers of
shelling, bombing, charged wires and so on. Had
it not been for the aid they received from a
Chamorro girl who was their servant it is
probable

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Report from the United States Naval Island
Commander of Saipan on the Religious Community
On the Island.
probable that they would have suffered injuries
and possibly death on several occasions.
They were all in poor condition due to
poor food, filthy water, and general exhaustion
under the treatment they had had from the
Japanese. However, as noted above, all except
Mother Pia de Goicoechea are recovered and have
resumed their work. Mass is now said daily
by the priest and other appropriate services
are held as required. It may be added that
all of the religious personnel are most grateful
for the treatment and assistance they have
received from the Americans, both those attached
to Camp Susupe and all those with whom they
have come into contact. They have been furnished
the needed clothes and equipment to carry on
their work.
The priest and brother have both visited
their churoh in Garapan and suoh items as
they required for their present activities
have been brought to the Camp. The church has
been considerably damaged by shelling, but the
priest feels that it can be repaired.
* *** * * * * * *

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RESTRICTED
Madrid, Spain, Nawber2. 1944.
No. 3446
Subject:
Valuable Propaganda from Publicity on 
Liberation of Catholic Religious Community on
Island of Saipan
12/10144 Fuile. Ja0
FC111944
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 3316,
October 27, 1944, "Madrid Press on the Philippines", particularly
to the last paragraph thereof beginning on page 2 quoting a praise-
worthy despatch from PUEBIo's Seville correspondent giving a Jesuit
missionary's views on the liberation of Saipan by American forces
as affecting the community of Catholic religious. Reference is
also made to my despatch No. 3336 of November 1, 1944, tranamitting
a copy of an exchange of communications with the Minister of Foreign
Affairs occasioned by a full report on the welfare of the Community
which I was privileged to receive, through channels, from the
United States Naval Commander of Saipan.
There is transmitted herewith in single copy an article,
1/
"Spanish Missionaries in Saipan", which appeared in MADRID on
November 13, 1944 under prominent headlines and with a photograph
entitled "A group of religious Catholic missionaries saved by the
North Americans from Japanese dominion in Oceania". Also enclosed
21
is a translation of the more significant paragraphs, from the view-
point of propaganda value, contained in the article. The untranslated
remainder is cncerned principally with the history of the Mercedariam
Order on Saipan, where even before Pearl Harbor the Sisters had com
plaints of Japanese obstruction of their labors and of Japanese abuse
and deliberate corruption of the native population.
As stated in the despatch first referred to above, no more
effective propaganda could be devised for Spanish readers than
these unsolicited testimonials. The Enited Press cabled a brief
summary of the article under present report to Buenos Aires, whence
it presumably had hemispheric distribution.
Respectfully yours,
Cartton gi1d H
Carlton J. H. Ha
Encl osures:
5
894.404
A1. From MADRID, November 13, 1944,
as stated. (in single copy)
graphs of Emolesure No. 1
DCR - EUR Unit
Anal.k.
no
File No. 310
FJF/
Original to Department (for Osa Lid mmehine)
Diat.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.85)
e o. 1 to desstch 0. 3446 datixi Movember 21, 1944 from
Carlton.
L.'as, mecan mbarsader.
t ladrid, pain on subject
 o munity on I sland of sa ipan.
merican Liberation o athrel
POTRCE:
MADHI! (daily evening newspaper
Madridd,  ovember 13, 1944.
Misioneras españolas
EN SAIPAN
lspes del staque a Pearl Harbour por
(arte le los japoneses, éstos limitaron ri-
 cmo recienies. las actividades de ciu-
tladanos y súbditos de paises neutrales. sin
exrepluar las religiosas. Cerráronse los edi-
licioa de las Miskines y los religiosos se en
contraron inconunicados con su lejapa Pa
Iría. sin ser respeiados siqulere en a per
securión de que rueron objeto las personas
le raz blanra Los mislóneroó fueron con-
ducidos a campos de concéntración. falle
cirndo varios durante el cautuvertd à causa
de los malos tratos y la dendiente alimen-
lacion. espectalmente en Fllptpas.
Las slele religiosas qme habta en la Mi
aln de salpán al estallar la guerra no fue-
ron exceptusdas de ese trato, siendo tam-
bién internadas y falleciendo uns de eilas.
I.ibres ya los japoneses de toda inseren-
cia exiraña y no temmendo inegdeción de su
conducta para con lor napuralés de Saipán.
dieron rienda suelta a sus mstahos, tratan-
do a chamorros y carolimos como esclavos.
qultándoles todo consuelo religtoso y pri-
Iándoles del alimento espirttual que tanto
anstaban sus almas y de los benelcios me-
teriales derramados sobre ellos por los m.
sioneros.
 PINA DE LA ODIGRA
Ye grupo de rellglosss mielonerae os tétede salvades por los "nerteameriee
nos del dominio lapende an Oosanía.
A mediados dé juñto del año actual las
Matrallenes. añoran del mar una. dos. tres.
mcontables manchitas verdes Sn la las
acméo, tal como en 1591 se aparecieran à
Alé en la lejanía de las profundidades del
gablerta en Salpán en 19, según hemns
dieho anteriormente. Al estallar la guerre
un etterpado tndirenn con 4on alumnas.
actual esabe en Floreciente tado. Tenía
contenible, desensbarcaßan en Saipán. adue-
ñandose de la dala despmes de encaruisada
lucha y liberendóla del yugo japonés.
Reariidada la comunicacióe eon la lejana
que cuarenta y cuatro rños despues de la
trágica muerte del grun navegante bautiza
re López de Legaspi con el nombre de Ma
una secctón de horar para adiestrar en sus
obligaciones de anas de ca à las peque.
nas Inlias ya cacaderas.  "pa bébllotera
mercedartes españolas se aphestao meva-
mente s rehacer su obra. ravorecidas shora
riánes al tomar posesión de ellas en nom
cirrulante de lecturas catómcas a la que re-
bre de Feltpe II. Rey de España
currn hastn los mismos estudiantes japo-
Las dos isias principales del archipi lago
nosc
mon Quam y Saipán. Esta última. colorada
El relo de las madres se extendía
trn lalne cerranas, áronde en ocastones Be
el mandato del Japón. llene una etensión
trasladaban para yudar  los misloneros
comtaba une poblaclón aprm Imai de
el nombre de chaí orros que les dieron los
de 640 kilometros cuadrados.  1941
fo.Doe bebltantes. Sus naturalrs conscryan
espafoles durante ios siglos que poseyeron
las talas. También viven en el archipiclago
ra rdata una conrehencia mensual a lan
mua labou post cacoar. y la misma súperio-
en an labor apoktolica. Prestaban intensa
cooperactón  parroquia on el cuudado
de in .npa d altar. cntegitesls de nifias.
rnsenanzng de cmlo. eic. Realizaban contl
linuas alenciones de autoridades militares
y civiles y de soldados nortnamericamos.
preocupados todos de que nada les falte.
con el despotísmo, son el centro de laa com-
De este fortna céla én pmarcha la libera
Indtgonas carolinos. de costumbris más pri
alummas que habian pasadoor el exter-
miivas que los anteriores.
nedo.
PRESERVAOION DE LA FE
en eas hebnr ne apestolado tentm que
micher ron n rerribie enemigo: el paran
Pero si Eepaña ha dejado de ejercer su
ano. Stendo los Japoneses ardminisiradores
udmantatración politica en la tsia. perlora
poliricon de la inla. rponiad sus costum.
su obre espiritual. representada p las
Indigenas. pereznsns. hamheénton y molo-
bres y usos. desmaralizandó. a los pobres
gloes que man alcanzado antes que allos
Al restrarse los espafoles de equeller la
sos. que contrnten dendas y me empobre-
Msades desaperecteron las Misiones que te
zían. dánrose a la bebida y al abandono de
mien agustinos y jesuttas en Garapan. capi
éas práctieas religises.
sal de le lsía. que antes de la guerra con
sabe unoa 1.son hahttantes.
LOG LIRIOS BAJO LA TEMPESTAD
ción anée la conducia de las t
Desamparades espiritualmente los chame
Por increíble que parezca, esta dimmuta
pres, emprendieron con empeto la tarea de
tala perdida en las inmehsidaden del Parl-
mmemtener la fe en la isla. baulizando a los
neo no iba a ser perdonada por la conla
prarión. que cada vez recibía con mayor
Bosario. Asi refendida por ellos miamia. la
justicia la denominación de mundial.
fe se mantuvo inuacta: pero úna nosiaígia
muancible acuclaba a los naturales vién-
dose sin misa. sin predicackn y ain sacra
cuatro chamorroe. lue envadaa Toko 
mentoa. Por últumo. me decidieron a poner
fn à aqualla sltuación y una Comisión de
Craternal y tartativél
se axtlendán al orhe entere n
ürdenes. bajo in cnge
el envio de mistoneros catolicos à la lala.
Al Géblerne nipón. después de varlas di
maloria de la lala. y la Compatta de Jesús
Al Degar é Salpán, los misioneros Jesultas
los jesuftas dirigleron sus esfnerzoa bacia
mas femenina de le fsla t uhtera rell
girsas? lOne sabtamente formarian aqu-llon
Dande el convento blihaino de Bérriz se
respondiò a la tlamada. La religiosa mer.
éadaria Del mismo. madre AMarrarita Maria
Matarana. en cuya alma se habtan insinua
 el celo mistonsì y el espiritu de aposto
mad ofrnclendose ésta a Bu Sanlond para
servir en Misiones.
Las mtatoneras merrrlarias ajaron prt
mha Misióhy en Wohu  en s enverain
rmuttmente de la sitacion en Saipan on

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.84)
No. 1 to despatch No. 3446 dated November 21, 1944 from
on J. I. layes, hmerican Ambassador, at adrid, Spain on subject
merican Liberation o Catholic eli  ous Co munity on I sland of Sa ipan.
RCE: MADRII (daily evening newspaper),
Madrid, ovember 13, 1944.
Misioneras españolas
ENSAIPAN
upes del xtaque a Pearl Harbour por
Larte de los japoneses, éstos ltmitaron ri-
prrosamente en sus dominios, tanto anti-
ks como recienies. las actividades de ciu
dadanos y súhditos de paises neutrates. sin
exreptuar las religlosas. Cerráronse los edi-
licios de las Miakines y los religlosos se en
ran nconicado con  tejana Pa
tra sin ser repeiados siqulera ep ia per.
 de que fueron objeto las personas
e a blancn Los misioneroé fueron con
 a camps dr concentrseión. ralle.
 durte el cantiverto à caua
de los mmatos tatos y la denclente alimen
Lar pecialmente en Fillppas.
Ins sleie religiosas que hahta en la Mi
sin de satpán al estallar la guerra no fue
ron erreptuadas de ese trato, slendo tam-
lién Internadas y falleciendo una de ellas.
I.ihres ya los japoneses de toda ingeren
cia exiraña y no temtendo inegeeción de su
conducia para cun lor napurales de Salpán.
dieron rienda suelta à sud mstamños. tratan-
do a chainorros y caroltmos commo esclavos.
quitandoles todo consuelo rollgtoso y pri-
vándoles del alimento espiritual que tanto
ansiaban sus almas y de los benalcioe ma-
teriales derramados vobre ellos por los m-
sioneros.
 PINAL DE LA OBIGEA
nos del dominio japends on Oosania.
acmeo, tal como en 1591 se aparccieran à
Matrallenes, úfloran del mar unn. dos. tres.
Atd en la lejanta de las profundidades del
abterta en calpán en 1p, segón bemns
dieho anteriormente. Al estallar la guerra
actuat estaba en Tlorectonte etado. Tenía
contenibie, desenaberoatlan en. Saipán, adue-
lanciose de la dala despnés de encaralsada
lucha y liberandóla del yuto japonés.
contables manchitas verdes Sn la" las
un externado indigena ron 4oo alumnas.
que euarenia y cuatro rños despues de la
una secctón de horar para adiestrar en sus
trágiea muerte del grun navegante bautiza
obligaciones de ainas de cma à las peque.
re Lópes de Legazpi con el nombre de Ma
flas Inlias ya casaderas.  upa bahaoteca
riánás al tomar posesión de ellas en nom
bre de Feltpe II. Rey de España
cirrulante de lecturas catótécas a la que re-
curr'n hasts los mismos estudiantes japo-
ves desaparecide la nefasta
Las dos lslas principales del arrhipi lago
nesce
El celo de las madres te estendía
taculisó hasta ahora 
Sapuée de la primera suerra mundia laj
otree laíne cérrahas, aronde en ocasiones se
el mandato del Japón. tiene una extensión
trasladaban para ryudar à los misloneros
de 4o kñómetros cuadrados. e 1941
en an lalior apoktolica. Prestaban intensa
s0.ooe mahitantes. Sus naturalcs colacrvan
comaba una poblaclón apro imada de
cooperáción  parroquia aon el cudado
de m npa dm altar. categéésis de nifias.
iinuas ásenciones de setoridedes mslitares
el nombre de chasorros que les dieron los
espeéeles durante los sigios que poseyeron
mua labru post-eacomar. y la mísma ssperio-
ensenanzag de rhmjo. etc. Reafisaban contl-
preotupados todos 
las tslas. También viven en el archipiclago
ra rtaba una eonrerencla msual à las
alummas que habian pasadoor el exter-
mtávas que los anteriores.
nedo.
ucher con im rerribré enemigo: el parands
Pero s Bepaña ha dejado de ejercer su
no stendo los japoneses~éinmistraderés
émntssraelón politica en la tsia. periura
bolincon de la isle. kzónnkas sus easttmm.
Inrigemes. pereznena. bamboantos y sots.
slà perdida en las 
do a lte
usticia la denominación de pundial.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.80)
nesés.
El cela de, laa sagdrée ge eztendíia
are suerra mundia hajo
Irnaladaban para syudar a los mialoneros
cláb toda restré
mombre e chamorros que les dieron los
epesoles durante los sigios que poseyeron
ébee mebitantes. Sus naturalca couservan
le la rmipa d altar. categéresls de nifian.
enseflanzas de cimto. ete. Reafizahan conti-
uua labr post-escótar. y la misma superio-
cooperación  a parroquia pon el cudade
y civiles y de soldados nortnammerieamós.
preocupados lodos le que neda les falte.
indigenas cerolinos. de costumbres más pri
ra daba una conrerencla mnaual a las
matuvés que los anteriores.
alumtas qie habían pesadopor el exter
PRESERVACION DE LA FE
rindo.
en eee labor ne apontnlado tentán que
han iniciado ahora la smdnnte sares de libe-
invencible acuctaba a los narurales vién
mentos Por nlumo.  dectdteron a poner
fn a aqaella sotacion y unn Comista de
ratro hat fue enlada  cekto n
rros. emprendieron con empeño la tarea de
mantener la le en la isla. bautizando a los
recién nacidos y rezando el Angelus 
fe se mantuvo inzacta: pero una nostalgia
dose sin misn. sin prodicaciolt y stn ancre
mian agustinos y jesuttas en arapan cmpi
sal de la lsla. que antes de la guerra con
taba upoa 1.500 habitantes
Rosario. Asi deřendida por ellos miamos la
admintstración polilica en la laia. perlira
su obra enpiritual, represcitada p, las
Misiones religiosas que mantlene alli.
tuudes desaparecieron las Mistones qur :e
Desamparados espiritualmente los chame-
Pero si España ha dejado de ejercer su
Al resirarar los españoles de aquella- ie
pracion que ada ve recibía on mavor
Justteia la deroonactón de mond
tsla perllda en ta lumensidades del Parl
nco no lha a er perdonada per la conta
amo. Stendo los Japoneses administradores
Indigenas. perezosos. hambrientos y rolo-
Michar con un rerrible enemiko: el pa ante
polirtroe de la lala imponian uue costurd
brea  usm. Aeemorattzando a lon poiree
son. que conimian rdendas y se empobre.
plan. dándose a la bebida y ml abandono de
la= urárilcas rellgionne
Por lreible que parezce. eotn dimmrta
LOS LIRIOS BAJO LA TEMPESTAD
peridad Olalá cstos aupicios favorables
orienes bajo un concepte de ta vida más
ustán lenna de ngrmdecimiento y admira
clón ante la conducia de las fuerzas noríe.
umoricanas que los atienden solieitas y con
caridad cristiana. cuidando de que o les
las en Snipán. que. al amparo de un paeblo
crili de sontimientos humanos. pro.
meten cntrar en una nueva etapa de pros-
i ellentá al urhe entero. en todon Ton
rar las Fllipinas. dondé, tadte los nspañoles
residentes como los natixos 
los naturaies de Salpán, los cuales. Mbrés
de la opresión de los Japonesem. por s
cuales eran tratados como seres infértores.
falte alimenio material y esptritual.
dar en disfrutar de la mlema libertad rell.
glosa que han alcanzado antes eue ellos
Tal pa ln hiatoria de las Mislones espaão-
8u23 para impetrar del Gobterao lap 
fraternai y caritativo!
P. O. N.
1 fiobirino nlpon. deapues de arta
Jacione, recurrta Roma Flm 
ce htzo un llanamtent a las orenes
hisla de lalala pm
A1 llegar x -Rian. lo n <1
para entenderse con los nai  mh
de ls cuales sugutan entendtondoIabt
do. meyerpe el cgrelano A
loe fesitae dtrirleron sns crucrzs a
1oa nin los adolexrtes sal ando
laa dinrultade: perono refer
tndfgenas se encoare ante pr
msoluble Contempiabsn ag nls a
mas fementnas de la lslasi ubiera re
toas' ué sablamente formartan aqu-ll
eérazones. buenos y senctilios, pero domi a
dos por ia Indoletcta'
LA MADRE MATURANA, ESPIRITU
MISIONERO
Desde el convento hilhaino de Rerrtz s
respondio a ln llamada ln relixioan mer
tedaria del miemo. madre Vargarlin Maria
Maturana, en cuya alma se hshían instnua
do el relo misjonal y el captritu de aposio
lodo, orientó las actividnden de la comunt
dad, ofreeléndose ésta a Su Santidad para
pervir en Misiones.
Las mistoneras merredaria jaron pri
meramente su atenctón en China. fundando
uns Misión en Wuhu. y en 192s. enteraria.
épsuálmente de la situaclón en Saipán en
Varón alli su segunda expedición
Nómbrada prhmera m a dre general del
mmavo instituto mistonero, la madre Mau
réñà hiso en 1929 un viajs al Extremo
Oriente pare mspecctonar su obrs, visltan
do Chána, Japón, las marianas y las Caroll-
nes, donde fuado personalmente la Misión
aeddr del mundo", en el cual. con estilo
erparece un snnsestro. n

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
Emclesure No. 2 to despatoh No. 3446 dated November 21, 1944 from
Carlton J. H. Hayes, American Ambassador, at Madrid, Spaim on subject
of American Ldberation of Catholic Religious Commumity on Island of
Saipan.
SOURCE: MADRID (daily eveming newspaper),
Madrid, November 13, 1944.
The Mission of Merosdarian mothers was opened in Sadpan in 1928,
as we have said previously. On the outbreak of the presemt war it
was in a flourishing condition. It had an indigenous day-school with
400 pupils, a home seotion to train little Indian girls, alreedy at
the marriageable age, in their obligations as house-keepers, and a
circulating library of Catholic books to which even Japamese studests
turned.
In that labor of apostleship, they had to fight a terrible ememys
paganism. The Japanese being the political administrators of the
island, they imposed their customs and habits, demoralising the poor
natives, lasy, starving, and fond of sweetmeats, who contraoted debts
and became poorer, giving themselves to drink and the abandonment of
religious practices.
LILIES UNDER THE STORM
As incredible as it may seem, this small island lost in the
immensities of the Pacific was not to be spared by the conflagration
whioh gradually received with great justice the denomination of "World".
After the attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese, they rigorously
limited within their dominions, older as well as recently aequired omes,
astivities of citisens and subjects of neutral countries, without
exsepting the members of religious orders. They closed Missiom
buildings and the inoumbents found themselves inoomunicado with their
distant Fatherland, without their even being respeoted in the perseou-
tion to which members of the white race in general were subjested. The
missionaries were led to conoentration camps, some of them dying during
their captivity as a result of bad treatment and deficient mourishmemt,
espscially in the Philippines.
The seven Sisters who were at the Saipan Mission when the war
breke out were not exeepted from that treatment, being also intermed
and ome of them dying.
The Japanese, mow free from any outside interferemee and net
fearing imepeetion of thedr condast towards mativee of Ssipan, save
fall rein to their instinete, tresting mtives of the Chemorre amd
Cavalime Ialamde like aleves, taking from them all religioue csasola-
tion and depriving them ef the spiritual mourishment widoh thsir
soule longed fer so mesh and of the material bemefits poured out
upon them by the Missionaries.
ED CF THE ODYBSEY
Ia the middle of Jume of the present year, Nerth Amerienn feveee,
the ialand after a funious streggle and freeing it frm the Japemese

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
With commanication renewed with the distant Fatherland, the
amimated and self-denying Spanish Mercedarian Missionaries make ready
amew to:rede their work, favered now by the new atmosphere which they
emsoumter mew that the mefastious paganising influencs of the Japamsse
who hindered their apostolic labor so greatly up to now has disappeared.
With the liberation of the island all religious restrictions have
disappeared and the missionaries, instead of having to confront
despotiam, are the center of the continuous attentions of North merieam
military and civil authorities and soldiers, all of whom are concermed
last the missienaries laek anything.
In this way raligious liberation in the Paeific is underway in
step with the advance of Nerth American forces which have new begum
the predigious task of liberating the Philippines where, Spanish
residemts as well as the natives, of such unblemished religious beliefs,
will not be long in enjoying the same religious liberty which before
reaching them has come to the natives of Saipan, who, free from the
oppression of the Japanese by whom they were treated like inferior
beings, are filled with appreciation and admiration for the cenduet
of the North American forces who attend them solicitously and with
Christian charity, taking care that they not lack material and
spiritaal nourishment.
Sueh is the hdstory of the Spanish Missions in Saipan which,
with the aid of a Christian people and humane sentiments, promise to
enter upon a mew epoch of prosperity. Would that these favorable
auspices be extended to the entire globe, in all r espects, under a
more fraternal and charitable concept of life!
JFif
