894.002 Political Affairs., Japan, Cabinet. Ministry., October 3, 1930 - December 28, 1939 (File 1170)
ID: 894.002-1170   Pages: 755   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.002-political-affairs-japan-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECBIVED
Index Borcu
RA
FROM
0CT 3 1930
2m
ToKyWESTE.
Dent of Stare
Dated Octobef 3, 1930
894.002/146
Rec'a 7:52 a.m.
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
3013
1930
Washington
184, October 3, 5 p.m.
I am informed that Admiral Takarabe, Minister
of Navy and a delegate to the London Conference, has
resigned his post as Minister following the treaty's
ratification. His successor is stated to be Admiral
Abo who was chief technical adviser to the Japanese
delegation.
Takarabe's resignation after the disposal of
the treaty has been rumored for some time and is not
a surprise. I do not anticipate serious political
consequences as a result of this incident.
FORBES
TWC
CT 6-1930
FILHD

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.86)
OF THE
UN
OF AMERICA
aato
No. 17
DFPIRTMENT OF STATE
Fib
MAF
OCT
0I 220
WESTERN EUROPEA
C
894.002/147
FAN EASTERN AFFAI
1
CAy m +E
Asslstadi Secretary
of Prate
MR OASTLE
07T 29 1930
FTLEL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Wushirjoh.
21.112/46
Sir:
I luve the honer to co. firl t telegram No. 184
of October Cr, 5 P.l., re ortine the resigation of
Adairal Takarabe as Minister of Marine und the appoint-
ment of Admiralt Abo te succeed him.
NEF
The resignation  f Ad iral Talarabe has been talked
of ever since the conclusion of the Treaty of London,
so that the announcement yesterday came as no surprise;
nevertheless, this is one of those events whioh periodi-
0
cally ocour. in Japanese politios, the origin and reasons
fof

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
for which seem to be beyond the power of the western
mind to appreciate. I am frank to confess that I
should be reluctant to attempt my own explanation of the
个
circumstanoes, and I believe that I could do no better
than to quote the explanation offered by the JIJI SHIMPO,
one of the leading papers of this city.
"When the invitation to the London Conference
was received last year, the Japunese Navy publibly
adopted the so-called three funda ental principles
as its utch-word . The Navy announced that these
princi les vere the unalterable conditions for
Japan's guidance at the Conference, nd, again,
that they represented the irreducible minimum
necessary for Japan's defenses. It constantly
sought to indoctrinate the Japanese people with
these ideas with the purpose of making them a part
of Japanese public opinion. Admiral Takarabe was
one of the most ardent of the propagandists and
he succeeded in engraving deeply in the minds of the
Japanese people the impression that, if these
principles were not adopted, the national defenses
would be jeopardized. When Admiral Takarabe left
Japan to attend the Conference as a delegate, he
made statements which allowed the Japanese people
to suppose he was resolved, if Japan's contentions
were not established, never to see Japan again.
These statements, therefore, persuaded the people
to

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
to entertain the hope that the three principles
would surely be established. It was unprecedented
for a nation, before the opening of a conference, to
publish the conditions under which it would attend
the conference and to indicate them as absolutely
their irreducible demands, and it was, therefore,
natural for the Japanese public to expect, in this
instance, that Japan's conditions would certainly
be established.  Our delegation then left for London,
having succeeded in seein the three principles
adopted by public opinion, and having assured them-
selves that they would have the support of the entire
nation. If the results of the Conference are examined,
one observes that a material concession was made
in respect of one of the three principles: a large
portion was broken off the corner of one of the
conditions which some days previously was declared
to be absolute and irred cible.
" The responsibility for the dispute which sub-
sequently broke out between the Government and the
Navy, which in turn brought about a serious reper-
cussion in political quarters, should be placed upon
Admiral Takarabe, the Chief propagandist of the"three
fundamental principles" doctrine. It is eminently
fitting that Admiral Takarabe should resign, and
the present was the best time for him to do it.
The

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
The press is not unanimous, however, in thinking
that Admiral Takarabe chose an opportune time for re-
signing) As I have already pointed out in my despatch
500A15A3/1174
No. 16. Or October 2, 1930, the question of the funds to
be granted the Navy for its so-called replenishment pro-
gram is assuming serious proportions. The Tokyo NIChI
NICHI, also one of the leading pupers of the country,
expresses the opinion that Ad iral Takarabe would have
shown a much more comiendable sense of respo sibility,
if he had waited to resign until after some settlement
had been found of a vexatious problem, whieh he had no
little share in creatinc.
It is noted that this opinion is shared by a number
of prominent politicians .
The appointment of Admiral Abo to the Ministry of
Marine is also somewnat hari to unders and. Auiral
Abo, who it will be reme bered uttended the Conrereace
as a technical adviser, indulged in some very outspoken
criticism of the provisions of the Treaty before his return
to Japan. He has since kept himself very uen in the back-
ground, but he has not dissuised his dissatisfuction with
the terms obtained by Japan. In vie of this fact, therefore,
it would seem as though the Government had deliberately
sought to increase the difficulty of finding a solution
of the question of funds for the Navy by introducing into
the Cabinet an officer who is described as having the
loo per cent. confidence of the Navy. My own belief is
that

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
A that the Government has not acted too hastily . It may
perhaps have chosen Admiral Abo for the reason that, if
he, who so thoroughly enjoys the confidence of the Navy.
can be induced to accept an amount less than the Navy now
demands, the Navy will not continue to offer opposition.
Or again, it is not unlikely that the Government came to
some general understanding with Admiral Abo before he
consented to join the Cabinet. In all events, I am quite
hopeful that his appointment will not, as some people
seem to think, necessarily complicate the problem further.
Respectfully yours,
hlamem Frhea
W. Caneron Forbes.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Index Bureau
DIVISION
INTERNATIONAL CONFENENCES
WP
FRORPEN
AND PRO
0141930
Tokyo
DatedT  STO
F
Rec'd 12:27 a. m.
Tyo
hel.
1+P3
894.002/148
Becretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
NOV 14 1930
URGENT.
214, November 14, 10 a. .
Premier Hamaguchi was shot and seriouely
wounded this morning.
DOOMAN
JS
NOV 1 5 1930
FILED
B

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.93)
COPIES SENT TQJ
Q.N.I. ANDM.LD.
TELEGRAM RECEIYED
Index Bureau
J0
AND PROTOGOL
TORIO
AV 14 1930
Dated
1830
Secretary of State,
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
NOV 1. 1930
216, November 14, 2 p.m.
My number 214. The Prime Minister was shot
4
in abdomen, bullet failing to pierce the body.
Ifforts to extract bullet have not succeeded.
2/149
Some alarm is felt over profuse hemorrhage, which
has not been checked. Assailant is a member of
organization of reactionary political adventurers
and was immediately arrested.
DOOMAN
JS
NOV 1 5 1930
FILED
B

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WHETWER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department at Siate
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
PLAIN
OR
W7F
Charso to
DIETRTRUTRD
Washington,
November 14, 1930.
10
AMEMBASSY,
NOV 14 50
e
2
TOKYO (JAPAN).
216
Please inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that
894.002/149
both the Government of the United States and I personally
are profoundly shocked at news of the attempted assassina-
tion of Prime Minister Hamaguchi. I earnestly hope that
his life, whioh has contributed so nobly to the peace of
the world, may be spared to his country.
Nov. 1. 1980.
IC:HPD:MLN
1.V.A.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
Index Bu.-No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
Division of
TELEGRAM RECR
NOV 15 1930
JS
Index Bureau
AIOEIVED
TOKIO
07 15 100
FROM
Datcd November 15, 1930
Depe of ato
Rec'd 1:31
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES
Secrctary of State,
AND PROTOCOL
NOV 1 5 1930
894.002/150
Washington, D.C.
Fin
INDEX BUREAU
DEPARTMENT OE STATE
217, November 15, noon
894.02/149
216(
Department's 206, November 14, 1 p.m. The
Ministcr for Foreign Affairs requested me this
morning to thank you warmly for your message. Ho
said that the Prime Minister had responded very
favorably to the cperation performed yesterday
and that there is little liklihood of complications
setting in. He was very optimistic.
The Cabinet will decide this morning whether
or not a Prime Minister pro tempore should be appointed.
DOOMAN
JS
NOV171930

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Inde s Puroau
GREEN
MET
FROM
REOND
Tokyo
115
Dated November 15, 1930
Division of
Rec'd 6150 a.m:
FAR EASTERIN AFFAIBS
894.002/151
NOV 1 5 1930
Secretary of State,
9.g.C
Washington
218, November 15, 1 p.m.
874.02/50
My telegram No. 217, November 15, noon.
It is reported Baron Shidehara will be appointed
Prime Minister protempore.
DOOMAN
W8B
NOV 17193U
FILED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Analet...
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
D9 18 1930
MR CASTLE
December 11, 1930.
M.M.H.
AE
9..日.:
Mr. Castle may be interested in see-
ing this despatoh from Tokyo which gives
(pages 1-2) an account of the attack on
Premier Hamaguchi and of the action taken
by the Embassy; pages 3-6 disouss the in-
ternal conditions of the Minseito, and
the conditions under which Baron Shidehara
aocepted the tomporary Premiership; pages
5-6 give an account of the Patriotio
Society to which the assassin is reported
to belong.
Botton  6.2 + tox g1.3.
Rsm
Midse ITS.
RSM:MSD
.6.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.90)
PM RECD
BEMBASSY OF THE
FRE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Sokyor"Mavember 17, 1950.
13
no. 58
(00 roce referamnt
Mvisian of
Aathisti soncdic.
DLC-330
(3=6)
1930
7
apan FE
394.
INDEX UEAU
2
C
2
EC171930
FILEL
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
148
Sir:
Confirming the Embassy's telegram No. 214, November
14, 1o A.M., I have the honor to state that Mr. Hamaguohi,
the Prime Minister, was shot on the morning of the l4th
instant, at Tokyo station, just as he was about to board
the train to attend the autumn military manoeuvres.
The Prime Minister was walking along the platform
towards his carriage, surrounded by a large number of
persons who had come to see him off, when a young man
emerged

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
emsrged from the orowd and, approaching within a few
yards or the Prime Minister, fired a shot whioh struok
Mr. Hamaguohi in the lower abdomen. Most of the persons
with the Prime Minister thought that the shot was the
aound of a flashlight, and it was not until the Prime
Minister collapsed that they realized that he had been
shot. The culprit was then seized by the police as he
was about to fire another shot. r. iamaguchi was carried
to the waiting room of the station and given emergenoy
treatment while his physicians were being summoned, and
as soon as the latter arrived they perceived that he was
seriously wounded. As he was bleeding very profusely
blood was transfused from the Premier's son. This
operation had some benefioial effeot and the Premier
was then immediately transported to the hospital of
the Tokyo Imperial University. An effort was made to
extract the bullet, and when this was unsuccessful the
physicians operated to prevent the development of com-
plications. The Prime Minister responded very favorably
to the operation, and the bulletins whioh have subsequently
been issued indioate that his condition has been steadily
improving. The last bulletin indicates that there is now
little likelihood of any serious relapse.
2
I was in Kobe when I heard of this regrettable oo-
ourrenee, and immediately telegraphed Baron Shidehara
expressions of my sympathy. The Pirst Secretary also
salled at the offieial residenee of the Prime Minister
to express his regrets, and on the following morning he
personally delivered to Baron Shidehare the message of
sympathy

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
3-
4
sympathy transmitted by your telegram No. 216, November
14, 1 P.M.. Baron Shidehare was extremely appreciative,
and requested the Embassy to express to you the warm thanks
of the Japanese Government.
The Cabinet met immediately after Mr.Hamaguohi was
removed to the hospital to disouss whether or not a prime
minister pro tempore should be appointed. Some of the
Ministers believed that, as it was obvious r. Hamaguohi
would be unable to attend to his duties for a considerable
period of time, the appointment should be made, while others
were of the opinion that there were no urgent matters of
state pending and that it would be advisable to be guided
by the progress of the Prime Minister's condition before
arriving at any decision. These two points of view could not
be reconoiled, but it was agreed to meet the following
morning, when the physicians could have had an opportunity
to observe the offeots of the operation.
The personal relationahips within the government party
are extremely complicated. The Minseito, like the Seiyukai,
is a fairly loose agglomeration of factions centering around
the more prominent men of the party. The two most important
factions, next to that of Mr. Hamaguohi, are those of Mr.
Adachi, Minister of the Interior, and Dr. Egi, Minister
of Railways. The high order of disoipline maintained within
the party does not allow the rivalry of these two leaders
to come conspiouously to the surface; but the success with
whieh Mr. Adachi conducted the last eleotion campaign,
whioh

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
whieh resulted in a victory for the Minseito, and the
adroitneas with whioh Dr. Egi, who is Mr. Hamaguohi's
"sontaet man", led Mr. Hamaguohi through the dispute over the
London Naval Treaty, make these two the outstanding contenders
for succession to Mr. Hamaguohi.
Neither of these men were anxious to have the other
replace Mr. Hamaguohi temporarily, as in the event of his
death the inoumbent would naturally have priority in seleotion,
while some disturbanoe would inevitably arise in the party if
either received preferment before the party had fixed in some
way their relative position. Dr. Egi's influence is not so
great perhaps as that of Mr. Adaohi, and the probabilities
are that, if the Cabinet had to ohose between the two it would
have voted for Mr. Adaohi. These oiroumstanoes undoubtedly
explain the fact that Mr. Adachi's faction favored the ap-
pointment of a prime minister pro tempore, while Dr. Egi led
the group which favored delay.
After the assassination of Prime Minister Hara in l92l,
the Cabinet nominated as prime minister pro tempore Count
Uohida, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as he was the senior
in point of court rank. Baron Shidehara has, after Mr.
OBF
Hamaguohi, the highest oourt rank . He is a member of the
Minseito, but he is not a party politician and had little
influence in the organization beyond the influence whioh his
character and ability command. His seleotion as temporary
head of the Government would not disturb the balance of
power within the party, and, furthermore, it would have the
sanetion of precedent. It was presumably with these con-
sideretions in mind that Dr. Egi is reported to hare sounded
out.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Î out Baron Shidehara and secured his consent to replaoing
Mr. Hamaguohi temporarily. I understand on very good au-
thority that he obtained the approval of Mr. Wakatsuki, one
of the elders of the Minseito, and immediately despatohed
a dooument to the temporary offices of the Cabinet at the
headquarters of the Emperor near the manoeuvre grounds re-
questing the appointment of Baron Shidehara with instruc-
tions to present it to the Emperor for signature as soon
as telegraphic orders were received from Tokyo.
When the Cabinet met again on Saturday morning, the
15th, Dr. Egi reported to his colleagues the actions he
had taken, and the Cabinet deoided to nominate Baron Shidehara
without further delay.
It would be reasonable to assume that Baron Shidehara
has undertaken this additional office on a reasonable ex-
pectation of Mr. Hamaguchi being completely recovered by
the middle of January, when the Diet reopens after the New
Year recess . If Mr. Hamaguchi should suffer a relapse or
if his recovery should be delayed beyond this date, some
politioal disturbance may evidence itself.
A censorship has been placed upon the publication of
any information regarding the assassin or the motives of the
crime; but before it was put into effect, the press reported
thet the culprit belonged to an organization ostensibly
dedicated to the support of the Emperor Cult and other forms
of conservatism. There are many such organizations, the
Black Dragon Society, the National Essence Society, the
Ratriotie Society, and so on; but they have a common
fountainhead in one Mitsuru Toyama. These sooieties ap-
parently work under his direotion, and are usually mobilized
whenever

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
whenever the Government can be acoused of betreying
national interests. For example, they were partieularly
active in making demonstrations against the Government
during the Naval Conference. Those belonging to these
societies subsist on subscriptions "extorted from large
corporations and political organizations, and it is a
notorious faot that they can be hired for illegal pur-
poses; yet the authorities seem to be disinclined to
suppress them, perhaps on account of a gloss of patriotism
with whioh they cover their acts. The oulprit in this
instanoe is supposed to belong to the Patriotio Society,
whioh is an offshoot of the Black Dragon Sooiety; and it
is not at all improbable that he was inoited by persons
dissatisfied with the Naval Treaty to do away with the
person instrumental in securing Japan's adherence to it.
In faot, the surprising thing is that no attack was made
on the Prime Minister long ago.
This attempt upon the life of Mr. Hamaguchi has called
forth expressions of horror from all sides. A number of
parallels were drawn between the assassination of. Mr. Hara
and the attempt upon Mr. Hamaguohi; and it is interesting
to note that while the denunoiations of Mr. Hara's assail-
ant were relieved by oriticiams of Mr. Hara, the attaok
on Mr. Hamaguchi is unequivocally and universally condemned.
The Tokyo AsAHI's editorial quoted below closely refleots
opinion heard on all sides:
" The aonduet of Mr. Hamaguohi, both as a
publie man and as a private individual, is above
reproash. Not only is he a statesman or unusual
honesty and oharacter, but it would be impossible
to find one better fitted to carry out a poliey
of retrenshment, whieh is imperative ir the coustry
is to be taken out of its present dirrioult sttmation.
Furthermore,

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
furthermore, the faet that he has aiways pursued
the course whioh publio opinion believes to be the
proper oourse is amply demonstrated by the events
of the past summer, when Mr. Hamaguohi collided with
the Privy Counoil over the Naval Treaty."
Respeotfully yours,
W. Cameron Forbes.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.93)
AM
RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
2
Tokye, Becember 1, 1950.
no. 69.
C
5
18
FAR EASTERN APFAIRS
the Dodge
0501730
CCC 18 1930
F
894.002/153
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCLS
AND PROTOCOL
DEC 19 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3
DEC?21930 G
FILED
The Honorable
Seeretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
194.002/149
Referring to the Department's telegram No. 216,
of November 14, 1950, transmitting a message of mympathy
to the Minister for Foreign Affairs over the attempted
assassination of Prime Minister Hamaguchi, I have the
21.
honer to transmit herowith a note dated Nevember 19,
1950, frem the Minister fer Foreign Affairs expressing
thanks fer the message of sympathy.
Respeetfally yours,
7
1
Eecleeuse:
1. Ls etated.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.92)
melecure o.
Doopaton No. 69
Froa Aserlesa Eakasey
Tokye.
BATION
e. 156/P
Bepartment of Foreign Affairs,
Tokyo, November 19, 1950.
Nonsieur l'Ambassadeur,
I was deeply moved by the courteous telegram of
inquiry whioh Your Exoellenoy ment me from Kobe at
the time of the deplorable ocourrence that befell
Premier Hamaguchi and by the marm expressions ef sym-
pathy of the Government of the United States of
America and of the Secretary of State, conveyed to me
by Mr. Eugene H. Dooman, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
when he called.
As I am desirous of expressing my most sincere
thanks te the Government of the Uhited States of
Ameries in the name of the Imperial Government and to
the Seeretary of State in my own name, I beg that Your
Exeelleney will be so kind as to convey my thanks.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to
Your Exeelleney the assurance ef my highest considera-
tiom.
Baron Kijure Shidehare
Minister for Foreign Affairs (SaL)
Kis Exeelleney
Dx. Willlam Cameron Forbes,
Ambassséer Extsaerdinary and Plenipetentiary
of the Uasted sases of meries.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
F
NOTE
894.002/154
C
894.00 P R/36
SEE
FOR
74
FROM
Japan
Forbes
) DATED
Dec.2, 1930.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
the attempted assassination of Premier Hamaguchi.
Sketch of the culprit.
mb/

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.80)
on Sovtmrer lttn sne matien wes stumned so
Learm that Premier Mamguchi had been shét snt
seriouely wouaded when about to beard mis tsasn
muasay's telegrm e. 2os, of Hove-
bor , 1080.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.90)
一2
at She Tokyo Contral Statien fer the Oramd
Hilitary Vanoeuvres in Okayam Prerecture."
For sevoral days the striet press sensorship pre-
vented any news reguraing the assassin from being
made publio, but it was later reperted that a
young man of twenty-three, named Sagoya Tomee,
wno Was u memver of a reautlsnary noulety salled
"Alkoinusha" (ratriotio  voloty) had oomaitted the
altack. up to the present time there has been
vom lote wilence ms to the reasons for the mim-
areant's aulion, mut it is bolleved that is was as a
putli sory t lt . larlguchi was ttacked and
t ho we u the viotim of a personal rudg.
rese, however, emphasizee the fact
   man of or.1al hanite and is
luk-tompere nd violent by nature. He ls re-
prtel to s  son of a amal dontractor in Mie
prefeoture d a geisha, but to have been disowned
whon a yourg coy and Later to have le a vagr t's
life. it  t o be ng a momber of a group of
bandits in Manchuria. Ho hao been arrested a
number of ti en for theft ant last yeur he wae fined
for stab i a friend with a short sword. The
"xikokuaha." of whioh Sagoya is a member, is led
by a mn names Imate sinosuke, who ms involved
with tho lnw : connection with the assmssination
on September 5, l9lz, of ur. Abe Meritare, who
was the Direotor of the Politioal affairs Seetion
of the Foreign Ofrics. Iwnte wms senteneed to
ten years' penal servitude and after his releaso
* Despatah 30. 53, of Zovember 19, 1950.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.91)
fres prison resumee his "nationaliem" prepagands.
The attemyted asmassisation of Prenier Rumuguehi
reealls to mind the murder of the Seiyukal  remier
Hare at almost the mame plaoe and hour about nine
years age. "he mnrderer of Harm only esoag d be-
noming n martyr by the faot te? nelther mus he
exaonted nor dia he pomait suloide, but ho was
recently brought b ar lto the publlo oye by the
raport that ne was snas to be re eased and would
enter a ruddhlet m aster to ray for the soul
of hia vistim.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
F
894.002/ 155
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P R/37
FOR
107
Japan
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
the attempted assassination of the Premier. The
condition of Mr. Hamaguchi makes it uncertain
whether he will be able to attend the next
session of the Diet and makes for a certain
degree of political unrest.
mb/

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.92)
Imdustrial Bank.
Premier Hammgmeki has met yet resovered frem
the injuries received from the ballet ef a would-be
Poior
assassin, on November l4th lass, and the unsertainty
as to his ability to attend the moxt session of the
Diet upon its convocation in Jamary is jausins
considerable unreat in political oirolee.* In eom-
neotion with the attempted assassination, Matsuki
Yoshikatsu, aged 31, a meuber of the Aikokusha
(Patriotio
Deppateh No. 86, of Dece.aber 1o, 1930.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
(a ).   
the former as an aceorpliee and the Later  the
charge of violating the regulatiome fer the egatrel
of arms and gunpowder. with the comelusion of
their examinatiem, the embargo hitherte imposed s
mention in the Press of this phese of the afrair
has been lirted.
Sagoya Tomeo, the would-be assassin, upon
examination soon after his arrest, denied all intent
to urder the romier but admitted that he was of
the opinion that the business depression and in-
oreasing unemployment vere due to the blundering
polioy of the present Government. As the examina-
tion progressed, however, it was usoertained that
the youth oonceived the plot as early as last May,
but was unable to find an opportunity until November
l4th, the date of the Premier's intended departure
for the Military Manoeuvres. The revolver with which
the attaek was made belonged to Iwata who olaims
to have had no knowledge of the plot, stating that
the revolver was taken from his drawer by Matsuki
and given to Sagoya. As no olear evidenee of com-
plieity has been discovered, Iwata has been held on
a oharge of violating the regulations for the control
of firearms, as he was in posession of a revolver
without a permit. As mentioned in the monthly
report for November, Iwata was arrested in l9ls as
an accomplice in the mrder of Mr. Abe, Directer
of the Politieal Affaire Burees of the Foreign
offiee, and he and his followers have lons opposed

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
the Govermment om many of its polieies.
Aecording to the "ataxo" they vigeremely apposed
the despateh of Mr. Wakatsuki to the Lomdon Com-
ferenee and when the sontroveray over the Treaty
was at 1ts height in the Privy Couneil, Iwate raised
a strong outery against the Paet which he denounsed
as the result of umiliuting diplomaey.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/156
SEE
894.00/000
FOR .....Tel.50
FROM
Japan... (.... arhaa.....) DATED .Apr.13..1931.
TO
NAME
1-1178
REGARDING:
the resignation en bloc of the Hamaguchi cabinet
apparently because of the Premier's ill health;
Wakatsuki probably will be asked to form new
Ministry.
mb/

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
GREEN
Tokio
Dated April 13, 1931
Rec'd 5:14 a.m.
Secretary of Stete,
Waehington
50, Apri1 13, 1 p.m.
I am informed thet the Hameguchi cabinet has resigned
en bloc. I understand further that Wakatsuki who was
formerly Prime Minister will be asked to form & new cabinet.
The reeson for the resignetion appears to be the ill
health of Hameguchi.
FORBES
WP

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/157
Tel ¥55
894.00/309
FOR
SEE
Apr.14, 1931.
Japan
Forbes
) DATED
FROM
1-1187
NAME
TO
REGARDING:
the new Japanese cabinet: Wa:atsuki, created a Baron,
is forming new cabinet with few changes. No change
of policy is expected as political complexion remains
the same.
mb/

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
MET
GREEN
Tokio
Dated April 14, 1931
Rec'd 7:31 a.m.
Secretery of State,
Washington
55, April 14, 4 p.m.
My telegram No. 50, April 13, 1 p.m.
I am informed uhat a new Cabinet is being formed by
OBF
Wakatsuki who has been created Baron. The personnel
appears to be the same as the Hamaguchi Cabinet with two
OBF
or three exceptions.
Shidehara remaime at the Foreign
Office and Inouye at Finance. Ministers of War, Commerce
and Overseas are said to be retiring at their own wish.
No change of policy is expected as the changes are
obviously personal and due to health in the case of Hame
guchi and to health or personal reasons in the case of
other ministers not included in the new Cabinet which is
strongly Minseito.
FORBES
HPD

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 158
SEE
894.00/310
FOR ..210
Japan
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING:
the change in Ministries. Resignation of Mr.
Hamaguchi and the acceptance of the Premiership
by Baron Wakatsuki. Discusses political aspects
of the change.
mb/

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.76)
2oye, Apr11 28, 1032.
No. 220.
The Remerehle
The see:otary of state,
waskingten.
sir1
I have the hamer to Inform the Departmemt that,
emimm  telegrem No. 50 of r1 1, 193l, R1ire
VF
Wakatenki, Prime Mimister frem 108e to l989 and lately
ekief delegate frem Japen at the Lemden Nevel Cenferense
of ls00, wms metiried  sprsl 1éth of his selestiom 
the mueee as Prime Minister to sueceee ruike mgeeki
whese resignesses, tegether wish these of his eabenst,
m ed t te eer an he .The
relatien of u. Hshs s tveeelly expect,
fuklering the ensoumeement the he veald reguire an

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.82)
aasstsomed eperatéon. Thss mad toen predsetes sinse she casãy
pare of the year mhen 18 was learnes that nie lajarsee woule
very likmely disable him for an inderimite period. omly the
irm will and coumg of the old Lon, as he io called y
the publie, enabled him to nold the reime of friee through
the tryin daye of the rueent Aet mennlom In fmet, the
straim or at:endanse at the det is mmid to have eontribated
in no smll degree to the proseat sonuition or his halth.
Dut for the unfortumate mishap to the renier, the
Has gsehi eabimet had every prespest of a contimued residense
in ofriee. sy its two great sohievemmnts of lirsims the gold
embargo and of roroine through adberenee to the Lundum Naval
Treaty, it hnd imed the cunfisenee und rwspeet of the
thinkine publie, and . guehs nimeelr as the quality
of pere nl popular ty entireiy aside from his eal worth,
whiek has ade hi. the best liked pelisieal leader of reeent
yoas.
Baron  akatauki, who sinee his return from Londem
has beem in retiremeat from politisal afraire, is said
to have aesepted vith relustanse the retum to setive
pelitieal life and the leadership of his eld party. He
hes, durins & Lene politieal life, held the highest pesisiom
shat a Japassse sudjeet eas held and has bees she sesipient
of all te hemer that a commomer ean aspire te, and mothing
tas she extreme exigsacies er pelitiee could here persuaded
  te r  e  .  
Sasem manstanki are ta me conse pelisienl pivels. as members
ef the Eomsesnd uaseh rathesed the pressns namseste party.
they vese moeegnssse to do the sest premiasns massterial
metoranl  Vseesune Kate, then presssent of the partg. and
e asiess t  to ee  a pe os sen te o

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.86)
8
premterehip. In consequenes, tr. wakatsuki, the older of
the twe, assumed the esriee in lone, en the death of Viscount
Kate, wnd at the most turm or the pelitleal sheel . Hamagmchi
was ahesen tu head the party and the abinet.
To underatand why Barem:atouki as forced out ut the
retiremnt to whieh he bad so aladiy rot rmod aftor his
retum from Londen, 1t is neseasary to revien tne s1 luatlon im
the imseito arty prier to the rreignation h in uchi
Cabimet. The Himseite, like all japmeme political purties,
1s bmilt around the permommlity of soveral outstandins leaders,
with little nore tham lip devo iom to any eause or prinsiple.
These leadere mst eoneillate the various •luments in t heir
fullowings, bet ween whem very often davelep jealousles whiek,
except for the nesessity of preservins = solid frunt ainst
the oppesitiun, would s lit the party. Simee the imjury to
. hi ith the relti prbiliy of  retiet,
suppertere or the two wwat inrlwential leadere witaim, the party.
. d,  niter or Hom Affuir, n Coml i mister
of Far, have striven to press their loaders formard to the
presideney of the arty. he daehi factiom contended that
be, beims the most mative und isluuntlal party aagor, should,
unéer the primeiple of struight purty governmemt, be entitled
to the presideney. The contentiom oi the Ugakd suppertere was
that sheir leséer had creater inflmezee is nigh eourt eireles
and wae reeogmised to be the xost d1:timguished candidate fer
the presideney of the party. The feeling in the rarty between
the sappertess ef the rival eamdidates was so strens that
apoimtmems ef either woule probably have disrupted the Party.
V.
4

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.81)
山
16 sme jumeture, the chareeteristie Japamese fasuly
for comprumise again denemstrated itmelr by the selectien ef e
thine m,amn iha distiishd eeoré he d etired
frem polities and who, havimg no aotive pers mal follomims
mer etive ememies, waz neceptable to xll smotiems of the
Party. r. i, iniater f Co leatiom nd himelr on of
the loadere of she ineeite, is orecited sith engimsering the
1
now binet. lse, . ongoku, promemt houd of the outh
anchuria ailway who ecuuples & umige nouition in the counoils
of the iaseite by virtue of hie elose oonneetions with the
witsubiahi intereste, 1s maid to have had mueh :nflus  in
Da Sen..
aking the deeision. she latter has mo kim: feeling for
Adeahi, it is mald, and ruled him out uf the oandidaey for
the preside: ey of the rartye
f eliminated candidates rot red  ith good grase. .
deehi, witt an eye to furt or developaents, has mgreed to
hela his portrelle as Heme Minister, wile Goneral Ugaki,
althengh retiring fren the tixistry on the groune of 111
healsh, the uesal Japemese emeuse, cmdereed Makntuuki's
appointmems by seyins that tbe was the most expedient man
for the plase unéer the siroumstanees. It is somemly belleved
that Gemerel Dgaks refused :o continue in office net so uch
fer reaseme of health as besause of disinslimation to eontimme
is palisies maless he himeelf were at the helm of the govermeens.
2
The mew Cabimet eame into beine with very little flourish.
tesk astemtien sas siven ia t he press to diseussiem of the
probable pelletee of the now Gevermmeme, but these was little
exestemsne and ne donemstratien, The ahenge was sidely ree
 e ot a ne of coves, tut of peenel. es in
100

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.82)
 ste maone the cabanet has very Little ehange to shee, partso
eularly in the mere tapertaat pesiti ome. The replacememt
of Gemeral Ueaki y Gemerel Mimami w1ll have 11ttle ofrees en
vabimes polloles, innsmeh as in peese times the imister of
Ear h little emern itn ttere outaie of mili tary oogizanse.
The other twe peste nexly filled, the Ministry or overeeas Afraire
 pied  .,ve inselte politiei,  the
NB
Anmistry of commeree and Industry filled by . Sakarauehi, 
self-de busineas an und advimer or te inseite Farty, ure
comparatively new cabinet posts and carry relatively little in-
fimenoe.
At the baginnins of his admialstrutiom faron ukatsaki, as
he is now outitled to bo mlled, eirvo his elevet on to the peerage
a few days before his aopointmont as Premier, anmoumeed that be
imtends to make no radleal ahunges in polley fros that of his
predeccamor. it the close of the rirss Cabines coumell meetins
under his administration he 1ssued a stateent to the press whien
in part reads as follows:
"I have aloaye beem a inseito mber, nd have ever
smpperted the politieal prinoiples and polley of the party.
The variens eesures framnd by F. lamageki e premer, have,
the maidins pelley hitherte pasmued.... Hewever, the peliey
mat met be tee vigid. It mst have a certata elassieity
mmtsters, me shall annonnse what we shall do as è preper ep-
pertumity in ruture.
This stutemunt cortaixly cannet e salled either redieal
er stsakinaly sllumimtims, bat is prebably indseative ef the
astunl pelsey of the noe povesaent, Baren wetatsakt is knomm
fur ase tessle ablity to adeps nimsels to elreumetasess.
s.m00

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.87)
sinse the statemeat mas isswed, the mee ca bimet has
anmouneed that it will take ever ths cutstandins polieies,
with rtrenehment as the watehword, of the muohi covern-
most. Frender Rakatouki has statei that he will adhere to the
meh-debated no-loan poliey of the preeed ng sovernment, uni in
komeral terme hes stated that the abimet was considering ad-
dinistrative, rinnelal, s tmxatiom roedjustaonts' to the
end of consolidatine and improving the finneial foundutions
of the country". ith  urd to fureim polioies, no statont
has been iasued, but it y be assw: that the ne abinet
Kum
.with Barem shidehare in bis old pleee us MAnister for Foreign
Afreirs, will carry on te policles of the  meuehi unistry
with little ohan.
if not reuteu with enthusiamm by the publie, the mw
ministry at least has the Sonridenee of the publie. either
the stoek murket nor the bomd market showed any appreeiable
reaction to the Cubinet ohange. The press, in gomeral, ex-
preesed mild satisfeetiom over the appointmm of marem
wakatsnki. Co entine on the mew Cabimet the JIJI states that
the a peimsmomt of Basom Wakatouki is fremk proof of the firm
establishment of the primelple of party sovernment and that whem
a eabimet risigme fer reasome other than politieal, a new
cabimet sheuld be formed by the seme polisieal party. the
Is y mt to h s the lere s te
were mee replesed in the mew Cabimet, hittins, upparently,
at m. Aéesks, the Beme Minister, to when, sinee the arreet
af e JIJl reperted en a pelltiesl chre, thme JIJI hue been

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.85)
The ABanI meleemes a ase Lilaseite coveramens eaiy es
a leeser ovil then & ceiyakas sovermemt. 1t belleves thes
a imeeite goverament mas imevitable imsmeh as that party
controlle a mjority in the tet.
The Usake  nnI suys shat polltieal evente have em
the couree anticipated. The ehange in the war Ministry was
generally rogaréed as imevitable, but the ruplacement of the
other twe wimistere ruther falsified the generel belier that
the entire personmel would  retained. the mtirims ministers
nere not very popular, but nuither do their suesessere arouse
moh ublio intorest. But the purtial ohange in personnel
sivee the per abinet mo. alr of freshness. The SanI
eomeludes by urging the no abimet to keop the proelamtioms
rsade by she lanaguohi Cabinet when it wus formed.
The KükUul hails the mw cabimet in rather enthusiastie
tormm. It in halieved to learm thet the primiple ef party
govermmsat has been preserved und soniders that the pessing of
pomr into the hands of the oppesitiom as an indireet resmls
of un atte pted assussimtiom sould bsve ereated a bad presedeat.
sarom akatauki is permomlly pepular, partieularly simee
his return from Londom where his sagmsity sarned him great
respeet abroed und immemse prestige at home. The enthesiastse
reeeptiem secorded him om his retumm from the comreremee was in
striking contrest to the treatmemt frequently sivem Japamese
delegatee te insermatiemal conferenses on their retarm home.
It is mnsd that he dove met auke an ideel purty laader besekve
he nee few aréent personal adhereats. mut the suppesed
meakmese has preved te be kis strengtà at the present time,
them the tateseete of rivai bessse ia the same party clasked
and an ceseptabãe compremive candidate es minéstersal
52

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.80)
the Lime ef least resistanse and therety censeving ais end, s
has an impertertable egeensmity vhich, in cembisstien with
hás demenstsated abilsties in the reelm of fimanee and ad-
mimistratien, have brougkt him the friendahip ef kis pelitieel
calleagmee and the comfidemee of the puulie. sevem times e
minister of state, he brings to his ofrise the wisdem berm
ef e memmsim of olitieal experionse.
Reopeotrally yoars,
.CamroaForbes.
w1T/sm

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/159
894.00 P R/41
#216
SEE
FOR
Japan
Forbes) DATED
May 8, 1931.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING:
the resignation of Mr. Hamaguchi and the selection
of Baron Wakatsuki to head the succeeding Cabinet.
mb/

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.80)
the cutetanéins event of the month under revies
eoourrel cn Apesl lath with the lens expeeted resignse
tion of us. Eemmgeehs as premier ene prestdene of the
msnoedte Party.
medjire wabatouki, Lately ckief delegate frem
Japan at the Lenéen Naval Cenferense end Prime Ministe
frem 19ss to 19sy, wes metiried en Apr1l lath of his
selectien by the Eaperer to saeeeed rake Ramagscks, t
resigmatien, tegether with these ef his eabinet, was
sehmitted to the haperer en the preeeding day. Mr.
Hamagushi's reslgmation was entirely ese to the state
of his health, and selleved the physieian's annsuneemg
that an méditiemal eperatien would be required.
Da
Telegrem No. 80 ef Apri1 15, 1981.
Deapatch Me. a1o ef April z6, lo81.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.84)
● 8 ●
Basen Waisstouicl, whe was erested e peer shestty
befere his eppetstment as premter, hed boum in
pelstteal retirement sisse nis returm frem Lenten,
end was peresmded to assume the Leséesehip of mãs
eld party end the Cabinet enly beeanse ef e situessen
sresing out of jeealeustes ammns the Londere mhich
threetened to aplist the Minseite.
The cabinet change mms mmde with very l1ttle
emestement, and mas widely regarded as ene met of
covermment but ef pereemmel. Even is ite make-up
the Cabinet has little change to shew, partieulariy
in the mere impertant positiens. New ministers,
other than the Prime Minister, are Gezeral Mimems,
Minieter of War; Mr. Hare, Minister of Overeess
Affaire; and Mr. Sakureuehi, Minister of Commeree
and Imdmstry.
Premier Wakateaki has ammouneed that in gomeral
his eabinet will adhere to the pelleies of the
Hamaguehs Cabinet.*

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./45
#324
SEE
FOR
394.CC2
Japan
Neville
Sept.12,1931
FROM
--) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1172
/160
REGARDING:
Death of former Premier "Lion" Hamaguchi.
7
Death due to results of wounds received from an assassin,
one Tomeo Sagoya, 9t months previously. The assassin
is still in prison awaiting trial.
pra

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.78)
On August seth, durins the eusstement emmend
t the arrival of the Ladberahe, it mae leamed thas
Sommse Premier "Lien" Hamagechs hed gaietly passed

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.90)
y
● ●•
amny es e resnlt of wounds reseived frem an
assassén nime and eme-halr meuths befere." In an
astepey performed the night of his death the
assnsein's ballet, mhich was embedded in a bome,
ms extraosedu. Although death was eaused direstly
uy the ballet of the assassin, the membere of the
oppositiem party mst share in the responaibility
for Wr. Hamaguehi's death beceuse of their insistence
en the Premier's personal appearanee before the Diet
in mpite of the weak oondition of his health. It
is belleved that the strain of standing up in the
Diet and aasvering guestiens centributed largely
to Mr. Ramagushi's death.
Mr. Hamaguehi's assassin, Temse Sageye, is
still smaiting trial in the Toyetame prisom. The
prelimimary emmination has beem completed and it
ss expeeted that the trial will take plase in the

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/2722
memorandum
SEE
FOR
894.002/
State Department,
Castle
) DATED
Nov.14, 1931
FROM
Undersecretary
1-1187
not
NAME
REGARDING: plot against Baron Wakatsuki, Baron Shidehara, Count
16
Makino and Inouye, Japanese cabinet members.
dew

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/162
SEE
793.94/2746
FORTe1. 223 6p
FROM
Japan
Forbes
) DATED NOV.18, 1931
TO
1-1137
NAME
REGARDING:
rumors of i ending change in cabinet within
the next few weeks.
1 s

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
SH
A portion of this telegram
TOKIO
must be oarcfully paruphrased
before being communicated to
Dated November 18, 1931
anyone.
Rec'd. 8:55 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
223, November 18, 6 p.m.
Your telegram I'c. 23C, November 16, 2 p.m.
The Dutch iinister made a special call evidently for
the purpose of informing me of his report to his Govurnment.
He has further developed his theme today to the effect
that he is confidunt pressure will nly eonsolidate
public opinion in Japan una unhance the power of the
military. Tho Norwegian Minister was very definite that
in his opinion the prusent (*) is most conservative and
conciliatory possible to orfanize and should be supported
because any change is likely to be toward more militant.
The Dutch liinister and he confirmed my observation in regerd
to unanimity of attitude of diplomatic corps, the Norwcgian
Minister noting only one minor exception.
The air is full of rumors of an impending chenge in the
an
clips
Cabinet either within & few wceks or a fuw months. As yct,
however, there is little that is definite. Three. reasons
are advanced for the possible Cabinet change, namely, weak
Japanese diplomacy vis a vis the League of Nations, weakness
of the Cabinet with respect to the Japanese military since
September l8th and the fi ancial situation.
Three.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
Pape 2 - #223 from Tokio
Threo possibilities are mentioned regarding tho formation
of the Cabinet that will take the place of the prosent cabinot:
(1) - A part of the inseito und r the lcadorship of
Mr. Adachi the present inister for Humo Affairs and a part
of the Seiyukai und r the lead rship of ir. Tokonam will
form a "coalition cahinet". This docs not sucm probable
without a preced nt. Two aen p-rticuls rly the latter ure
politicians rather than statosmon, are cpportun.sts and
would not hev. the confid nee of the country. The formation
of a Ctbin.t as . rusult of such an intriguc would probably
be opposcd by such powerful porsonages as Prince Saionji
and Count kino who play n important purt whon a politic.l
change occurs.
1
(2) - The Seiyukai will form a Cabinet. This does not
scem probable t the presunt time. Its reputation is still
unssvory from the scandals which occurred whon it wes in
power under Baron Tan ka. It is the minority party and it
is doubtful if the porsonases above muntioned would find it
acceptable t present.
(5) - Mr. Wak tsuki will continuc as Premier and will
form a coulition Cabinet of  ins ito Sciyukai and independent
men. If the Cabinet should fall in the near futuro this is
regarded as the most probable of the threc surmises.
There is no doubt that the situation is most tense
but if given time will undoubtedly calm down in the absence of
irritating devolopmonts. Tho press is full of rumors and
cvory day bans

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
H
Pagc 3 - #223 from Tokio.
eviry day bans against publicution of significant items
ere received from the Governmont. For exenple, yostorday
one ban prohibited any news of the novemont of two divisions
except those given out by military authoritics; enother,
any information .bout pronosed extonsion of thc South-
Manbhuria-Railway; nothor, ny comment on Japanese
assistance in connection vith the movement of former
Emperor of China from Tientsin. Newspapers are very busy
commenting bout possible compronisos and conjecturing
conditions. Dy before yesterdey ADVERTISER published
much inform: tion contained in my telegram No. 215,
Novenber 12, 1 p.m., the story of the alternative conditions
of withdrawal being siven out by the Foreign Office.
Colonel McIlroy is back from the maneuvers proparatory to
leaving by way of Lanchuria. He saw nunorous transports
collccted as for novement of a large forcc of troops on
their way to ukden are beine oved from the extreme north
of Japon. Colonel McIlroy reports that every station is
packed with children waving flags, trains full of troops
moving evury 30 ninutcs, the whole giving the appearance
of organized ffort to stir up war tine cnthusiasm.
FORBES
WSB
(*) apparent omissien.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/163
793.94/2758
tel.#235 3pm
SEE
FOR
) DATED
Nov. 19, 1931
PROM
TO
Japan
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: newspaper report of a plot to kill
Shidehara and others.
1s

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.87)
RECETVET
0 1 1931
DIVISION OF
sdit Baron Rinichi Kuki, Senior membe of brirg
fomd long illnes of kidny troathe wn 18 th of
Angusl, 1931 at his villa, Kamatura, Japan.
Baron Kuki wa, bom on the Gat g Febomay, 1848
8
at Sante w hed ben slean of the Toteys dmporial
Univera 1876-7, inis of  O o Edtin
Arthur and Sover Cleveland, Seniar Membr of
thi GRivy Council to h Emperor 1888-, Gresident
bom National Expositions and Inlirnational Woreds

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.84)
Jains hes in Japan 1888-, Chairman of the Socity
 Gi  A, Tepd Sine, 1860
as Chairman of ihe Council on Conferring Orders
as (lecaations 1888-.
Baron Kutei leaves one daugkni, wife of lah alr.
Tokichi Masao, advin To  Rogal Family J Siam,
and two sons; the elde, Samuro Kuki, Srsper intendent-
F
f thi Educational Affairs, KanagawaHen and ihe gounge,
3
894.002/164
Baron Rinichiro Kuki, Lis grandam, th suecessor,
usidn at Hasé, Kamakura, Japan.
The frumeral services com held on di 2/4-s Angust-
at beishoj: Temple, Tokyo und alos n the 22nd Anguel
al Banta, Hyogo ken, his brisi place, whm he wa buried
at Shingeton in Aobey on the same day.
DEC 17 1931
rit
2

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
December 18 1981.
Mr. Shiges Yamanemehi,
University of Ohieage,
894.002/164
Chicago, Illimois.
Six:
The Department has received your recent undated
letter announoing the death in Japan of Baron Riuichi
Kuki, former Japanese Minister to the United States.
The Department had already learned with the deepest
regret of the death of Baron Xuki but is nevertheless
appreoiative of your thoughtfulness in bringing this
lamented faet to its attention.
Very truly yours,
For ths Seoretary of State:
Warrem D. Robbins,
Chief, Division of Protoeol.
DP:JTK:BBD
10/20/31
Rsm
FE
M.M.D.
A true copy of
the signed prig-
OR
DEC 18 1931
14
DEC

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/324
Te1.247, 6 p..
SEE
FOR
894.002165
Japan
Forbes
Dec.1. 1931
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Crisis in Cabinet seems to have passed. Disoord between the
Minister of War nd the Chief of Staff and te young element
of the amy. Contradiotory press notices iven out by military
aut orities at ukden iven as an example.
W1

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
REP
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
TCKIC
fore being communicated
to anyone.
Dated December 1, 1931
Rec'd 6:37 a. m.
9
Secretary of State,
Washington.
CC
247, December 1, 6 p. m.
The i mediate Cabinet crisis seems to have passed.
I~
Adachi who agitated a coalition Cabinet hus subsided for
the present at least and is not making any further
apparent moves. y colleagues have heen consratulating the
fremier upon his successes.
It is reported that the young and insurent element
in the army is quite out of sympathy with the more
conservative views of the inister of Var and the Chief
of Staff. The local United Fress representative has iven
to the Embassy instances of a nunber of extraordinary and
contradictory press notices issued in ukden by the
Japanese military authorities to representatives of the
press. These are not important in themselves but show that
army officers are much fiven to making official statements.
This is true of civilian officials, as for example the press
release made by the Foreign Cffice anparently without
Baron

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
REF
2- 247, from Tokio, Dec. 1, 6 p.m.
Baron Shiduhara's knowledse. Dr. Teusler called today
and said ho efully he thinks the whole cpisode may
result in real fond comin and that it is common talk
among the o der and wiser Janunese men of prominence
that the youne ur I ment in the army hav fot vory much
out of hards.
CRBES
WSB

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.93)
999.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/166
SEE ...94.00/327
FOR ......596
FROM
Japan
(Forbes.
.) DATED ox201931
TO
NAME
1—1137
REGARDING:
Cabinet ohanges rumored in Japan owing to dissatis: action over the
anchurian situation and financial troubles.
166
ek

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.86)
,  
no. se€
The Honorable
The seeretary of State,
Washington.
8ir:
I have the honor, with referenoe to my telegrem No.
all
22s er November 18, 1931, to report in greater detail the
Clips
rumers of an impending Cabinet ehange.
I mst eonfess that it is as yet impessible to evaluate
the various rumors that of late are heard with inereasing
frequemey. Te a Western observer there would seem to be me
adeguate reasom for a change of Govermmeat, as the present
Gabimet has an absolute majority in the Diet and the Diet
10

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
is met in sessien. Yot meither feet sigmifies that the
Gabimet may net resige. If 1t dees, the reasss er reasems
mmy be very obscure. The preceding Cabimet, for example,
fell while the Diet was not in sessiom as a result of e series
of affairs toushing the henor of the Court, imeluding the
death of Chang Tso-lin neer Makden and the pkrese of the
Kellosg Paot - "in the names of their respeotive peoples",
while the Cabinet before that, after suocessfully surviving
a Diet session as a minority party, fell because the Privy
Couneil disepproved of a proposal or the Govermment regard-
ing finameial adjustment. The standards of Western politios
cannot, then, be applied to the present instance and the
rumors mow ourrent must be given more attention than they
would reseive in an Oecidental ecuntry.
The prineipal eharge brought against the present
Government is that of weakness - weakness with respeot to
the aetivities or the Japanese military sinee September
l8tanweakmess visa-vis the League of Nations. Yet with
and
the army possessed of super-Oabinet powers in a time of
crisis, sueh es the present, (Despateh No. sss of November
7. los1). it is wery doubtful 1f any other Cabinet could
heve done mmeh, 1f any, better, while the "weakmess" of
the Gevermment towerd the League of Nations has had one
result which might be regarded as a diplomatie viotory of
pessibly no mall importanee. The Powers are apparently
cenrident that the eivilian govermment is blemeless im the
Mamehmrian affair. This has perhaps resulted in the bring-
ing of less outside pressure to bear on Japan than might
have been the ease had a Gabinet as militant as that ef
the late Baron Tammke held effiee at this time.
The eharge
iv.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
The cherge 1s also brought against the present Gabemet
that it has mot impreved the fineneial and ecememde sitmstien
of the country as it should have deme. Tot it has deme more
in that diresties than any of its predecessers. It remeved
the gold bas and is mintaining the yem abeve par. It has
redueed expenditures and has partially succeeded in the
difrieult task of limitation of Japamese armmments. It has
faced a situation world-wide in eharacter and has led the coum-
try as adequately as any other government, laoking its ex-
ample, eould probably have done. The no-loan polioy or the
present Oabimet, though it has recently been interrupted,
was mmintained for more than two years. Inoidentally, I
might mention that this is regarded by certain thoughtful
students of Japamese politios as the first gonuine political
prinoiple to be announeed and mmintained by a Japanese
political party, politicel parties in this eountry being
so far searoely more than groups of followers of certain
strong personalities combining for party interests rather
than for the sake of prineiples.
In defending the present Cabinet in the preeeding two
not
paregraphs, I have done so, to enhanee 1ts reputation but to
peint out that a change et present does not seem necessary
and to indicate that a subjeot disoussed eonfidentially in
the latter part of this despateh may gain in sigmifieanse
through the foregoing eomment.
In trying to diseover a reason for the pessible fall
of the Cabinet in the near future, it 1s necessary to re-
eall these factors that deside the destinies of Japanese
eabinets. In brief they are: the Tmperor's personal and
offieial advisers, the persenal relationships within the
Geverment

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.88)
ere Govest arty, tmye e
atienl realsties. eme or all of these may eeme sate
play as the time of a Gabiast erless. At pressst 1t mosle
soam that palstienl ebeervers feel thet the mont chenge of
Gakmet will be brougat abeut by esther the firet er the
third feetere. Whother er mot the cemjeetaree in this
despeteh may er my met be abeeguently ceafimed by events,
the eomments ceataimed herein will at least aid the Depart-
ment te understand mhatever conelusion mmy be the issue of the
present rumered mevements. It should be remembered that
Japenese pelities has & genius for the umerpeeted. Four
years ago, for example, when the Wakatsuki Cabimet was about
to fall, few if aay politieal observers realised, until per-
hape at the last moment, that the late Baron Tanake would be
called upen to form the smmcseeding Cabinet, despite the fact
that he was the president of the leading eppesition party.
Sheuld the rumored change of Cabimet result frem what
may be referred to as "pelitieal reelities", it will probably
be due to Mr. Adachi, the present Home Minister, entering
1nto en intrigee with Mr. Tokenami, mow of the Seiyukai.
Bither of the twe parties, the Maseite asd the seiyakai,
are eempesed, as I have pelated eut, of varieus factions
under the leedership of certain pelitieal "ehiefs". The
elassie esample of sech a leader 1s Mr. Tokememi. To take
up ealy the later perigrimtions of this pelitieias: he
Left the soiyakai in lese to assist in the formatien of the
Seiye-bente; the seiye-hente wes amalgamated with the
Xenseihat in losy to form the Maseites this he loft in
l0se te estebl1ch the shinte Clab; this, in tarn, he des-
treged in lose to retarm to the sosyakss, to which party he
now belengs. Tareughest his wenderings be hae boe folleved
fasntully w eortaie honsmn, tor no to a m of n umally

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.90)
Sieasing peremalsty, and vith Japenese pell téetane a
persesality is regaréed geserally as mere inpertant then
 politieal prineiples.
Mr. AMechi 1s alse an adept La ambiguitses. To him
the Manseite emee ia large meesare its pelitieal victeries
of 19se and of this autm (Despateh No. 890 of Outeber 24,
1os1). Mr. Adachi returms to Tokyo to-morrew from the
Autum Manecuvres and fellowing his return, the press re-
ports, there will be astivities on his and Mr. Tokenami's
part aiming toward an crientation of their twe groups of fel-
lowers that will result in formation by them of e se-ealled
coalition eabinet.
▲ brier description of the aligment behind these twe
men may mot be without interest. Mr. Adachi's fellewers
are at present all within the Minseite. mt Mr. Adachi
is said to be a disgruntled mmn because he failed te beeeme
premier after the resigmatiom of Mr. Hamagmchi in April of
this year. Mr. Tokememi has, of course, the balk of his
followers in the Seiyukal, but some of his fermer hemehmen
are in the Minseite, having remained in that party when
their leader left it in l9ss. These imelude Messre. Eara,
Kobashi, and Tamaka, all recently Ministers of State in the
Minseite Cebinet... There is reesen to belleve that these
fomer fellewers new in the Minseito are onee more ceming
under his inflwenee. This was indieated last meath by an
imcident that areused the interest ef pelitieally minded
Japemsse. Mr. Kebaski, Minister of Béucation in the Massite
Gabinet mtil late in lose, mhen he was foresd te resige
beesmse ef inplseatien is a bribersyecendel, wme receatly
found "met silty". A cengretaletien celetsetien wms hold
at Vome Pask ta Tokge last manth. It wee etteneed ef

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
st; namely, Mr. Tokomami, mow ef the seiyaai. Me at-
teadasse is regarted by many as sigaifieamt spgert of the
persistemt rumers that he and Mr. Adeshs, with their fellover
are drewing tegether.
It is quite possible that this sekeme will not be
realized, as sueh a uniom would be the result of taetieal
expedieney and would be a denial of the slow progress in
this country toward gemuine parliamentary government. It
is vory doubtful whether it would find favor with the Elder
Statesmem. Primee Saionji, termed "the only eurviving
Gemre", and Ceunt Makino were called upom by the Emperor in
kesy to seleet the successer of the fallen prime minister;
they indieated Barom Tanake as the mew prime minister, ap-
parently beeause of their desire te establish parliamentary
govermmemt. It is doubtful if they would countenanee a re-
turn to those days- only too recent- when seoret paets be-
tweem politieal groups might be the foundation of cabinets.
If the Elder Statemmem are agaim called upon by the
Emperer to ehoose the man to ferm the mert Cabimet and if
they do as they did in losy, their choiee will probably be
Mr. Imukai, president of the Seiyuka1, the Oppositiem Party.
Mr. Imakai is paired with Mr. Omaki as ome of the leaders
of the perliementary mevement in Japan, a man ef imçorruptible
imtegrity and a rare character in Japanese politieal life.
He was chesen president of the Seiyuimi in lm9 ehiegly be-
cause that party realimed that omly a mmm of uablemished
charecter ceuld extrieate the party frem the disgrecerul
siteatiem in whieh the party found iteelr follewing the
series of seandels that eseurred eurine the régime of the

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.88)
Loet when the coendale boeeme knomm has not yet bosn smgntunds
the party has me definite principles, ane ss coule esareely te
the Gabtnet now La effiee. Parthemmere, Mr. Iamtms is
seveaty-six years eld, and is is preblematienl whether he
has the viger meeessary for the aaties of prime minister.
Gertain obeervers, in whom I place some confidesee,
have teld me that these diffieulties may e partially eir-
emvested by beving Mr. Imkas, as prime minister, fom a
eealstien esbinet ef the best men of the twe parsiee and
some indepemdent mes. Thus the prime minister would come
frem the eppesitien perty, helping in this way to establish
parllemestary sovermment to a certain degree, while the
ministere of state weuld bo ef a ealibre more fit to eepe
with the present situatien than a purely seiyukal seleetien.
Although the present prime minister, Paren Wakateaki,
1s menerally regarted as "weak", he is the head of the
mmjerity party and is a man ef exeeptiemal intelligeaee. It
is pessible that he may be direeted, should the present eabi-
met fall, to fom a cealitien eebinet of Minseite, seiyakai,
and independent men. This would met be e mapensien of
perliementary sovermmeat mer a retregressien - sinse his is
the majerity party, and such a vabinet weuld sasure a contime-
anse of prescnt pelieies ia & perkape mere vigereus fem.
severel ether men heve beem meatiesed as prebable Prime
Mindatere in ease of e eabinet change. Ameng them are
Dasen Satese Yemmmete end Paren Kilckire Riramme. Beren
Iommete le a fommer Gebtnet Msaister and at ame time mas
bead

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.90)
● ● •
hesd es the Eypethee Bank. Io Ls at presses an adeseer
to the Miaseste. Basen Nisemme is Viee President of the
Privy Goumesl.
I have very recently heard & repert ef great lnterest,
if true, as yet impessible of mbstantiation. the repert
is that follewing the formatien of the mext Cabimet (in
the very near fature) the Xmperor will 1asue an Impertal
Reseript in whieh there will be phrases intended te lesses
the extre eabinet pewers of the military. The reseript
would, presmably. be drewm up by the Emperor's personal
advisers. There have beem rumors that seme influential
persemal edvisers of the Enperer have been oppesed to the
wide military aetien in Masehurie. It will be recalled
that Count Makime, Keeper of the Privy Seal, wes eme of
these high effieials said to be marked for assassimation in
the alleged plet er certain military officers diseevered
lest memth (my despeteh No. 38s of November 7, los1). It
1s net at all iapessible that if a change ef Cabimet sheuld
eoour in the mear future the real objeet or the ehenge will
be te eheek the aray. A mew eabimet, eatrensked beaind an
Imperial meseript touehing upon the ubjeet of arny contrel,
could adept, I should imagine, & mek more vigorous attitade
tomard the military than has hithorte been pessible. In
eensiderins this mtter, it would seem that an Imperial mo
seript ef tis matsre, wuld be e very able first step en the
part of the eppemsate of the military to bring the eivilian
covermment late a pesition where is ean contrel efrestively
all brenehes of the Geveramment. The amy might be effended
and angry, bat 1s would seareely dare ast beceuse ef the
it
aano tity

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.85)
sanetity of the aperer. I shall, hewever, s more deeply
1ate this subjeet in a later despateh.
Hespeetrully yours,
.. Cameron Forbes
mbassy' F1le No. Bo0.-JAPAN
LI8/M
aa.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/167
894.00/550
FORT1.258-
SEE
FROM Japan
Forbes...) DATED
Deo.11,1951.
NAME
11127
REGARDING:
Besigmation of the Cabinet: Baron Wakatsuki
submitted -, to the kaperèr on Dee.11,1951.
Particulars.
(Copy attached)
fpe

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
GREEN
Tokio
Dated December 11, 1931
Rec'd 8:40 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington
258, December 11, 6 p.m.
Baron Wakatsuki submitted the resi nation of the
Cabinet to the Emperor at 5:30 this afternoon. Resig-
nation was due to the instructions of Adachi, Minister
of Home Affairs, that a coalition cabinet of Minseito
and Seiyukai members ought to be formed (see my telegram
323
No. 232
November 28). The present situation is the result of
political intrigue and not of policies nor actions of
the Government nor, according to all reports we have
received, due to anything connected with the Manchurian
situation.
The successor of Baron Wakatsuki will not be known
until tomorrow or later. The probabilities seem to
be that either Baron Wakatsuki or M. Inukai, President
of the Seiyukai the opposition party, will be called
upon to form the new ministry. The former is prominently
mentioned

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
2-#258 from Tokio
December 11, 1931
mentioned because the resignation today was the result
of  political maneuvers of one Minister of State. Two
officials of the Foreign Office have just expressed
accord with this opinion.
FORBES
WSB

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/168
SEE
793.94/3179
FOR Te1.259 8pm
FROM
Japan
Forbes
--) DATED
Dec.12, 1931
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
appointment of new foreign minister. Imukai
will probably be asked to form a new cabinet.
1

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
GRAY
Tokio
Dated December 12, 1931
Rec'a 11:40 a.m.
Seorotary of State,
Washington
259, December 12, 8 p.m.
Your telegram No. 262, December 11, 9 p.m.
In view of the resignation of the Cabinet, I shall
await appointment of new foreign minister before taking
any action unless otherwise instructed. I have just
been informed that Inukai, President of the Seiyukai,
has been summoned to the Imperial Palace at 8 o'clock
tonight. Unquestionably he will be asked to form a
new Cabinet. As yet there are no reliable indications
of its composition.
FORBES
RR-CSB

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/169
894.00/331
Tel.#261-4pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Forbes
Beo.13,1951.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Eew Seiyakai Cabinet, in Japam. Formed by Imkai,
Premier and Aeting Minister fer Foreign Affairs.
List ef Ministers,and their respeotive posts
given in te legma.
(Oegy attaohed)

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.93)
!AM
GREEN
TOKYO
Date December 13, 1931
Rec'd 4: 56 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
261, Decemher l6, 4 p.m.
Inukai has formed a Seiyukai cabinet as follows:
all
dupy
Inukai, Premier nd Actinf Minister of Foreign af-
fairs:
DBF
Tokugoro Makahashi, Minister of Home Affairs;
KorekiyoRinister of Finance;
roer
Lieutenant General Saduo Araki, minister of War;
VOBF
Admiral Mineo sumi, Minister of rine;
LOBF
Kisaburo Suzuki, Hinister of Justice;
Iohirona Tovama, Inister of cuc ion;
VUBF
Teijiro Vamamoto, Minister or A&riculture and
Forestry;
bBF
Yone Zomaeda, Minister of Commerce and Industry;
VOBF
Chuzo Litsuchi, Minister of Communications;
Toyo Sukehata Minister of Overseas Affairs.
It is believed that the post of inister for roreign
Affairs is being held for one of their ambassadors or min-
isters abroad, probably lir. Kenkichi Yoshizawa ambassador
to France.
FORBES

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
994.02
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R/48
#404
SEE
FOR
894.002/ 170
Neville
Deo 4,1931
Japan
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Rumors of cabinet change.
ak
0

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.89)
III. INTENMAL POLITICAL AOTIVITIES.
A peraistent remer of an iupending shange is the
Gabimet has embarrassed the Gevermment. * The runes
• see Embassy's d :spateh No. 396 of November 20.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.93)
une stasted a menth age after the Premter maée & series
of ealls an veriome persens in hich eutherity. sush
Galls etten presege a pelstienl ehange in Jages, ut.
he, the Name Misister and a peverful pelst lesan,
censed e sensetsen, in the early part of the mosth, when,
e deparsing fer a trip esay frem the capital, he infermed
prese represcntatives that he would weleeme a matiomal
er cealision eabimet. Apparemtly he hed not consulted
with the other membere of the eabimet mer with his
party, the Minseito, in this regard, for his remarks
emésed e veritable panie in these organizations. The
publie read his statement to mean that either he had lost
somfidemee in the cabinet of whieh he is a member, or that
a sehim exists whieh will oripple the eabinet. This
remark, coming on top of the real diffioulties of the
cabinet, namely the opposition to the Shidehare
diplomacy, and the dissatisfaction with the finaneial
policies of Mr. Inouye, the Finanee Minister, eanse
many observers to conolude that a cabinet change is
impendimg.
The real reason back of Mr. Adaehi's move is hare
to identiry. It is rumored that Barem Wakatouki, the
Premier, first suggested the idee of a eoalitiom cabimet
to Mr. Adecki, but withdrew his support besause of op-
position frem r. Imouye. It is eertaim thet Mr. Adachi
has leng sherished an ambition to be premier, and it
may be that he hepes te ereete e politieal melee from
which he weuld emergs, as kay man of his party, with the
premer's persfelle.
The seiyelsmi, the oppesitien party, are pleased with
the turn of evemts, but its leadere have deslared that they

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.85)
they stand to gain by the embarresement of the Goveremese
party.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/335
SEE
Memorandum
FOR
State Dept.
Far Bastern Division
FROM
(11lor.
Dee.ll,1931.
...) DATED
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Resignatien of the Wakatsuki Cabinet: Sets forth
reasons for persistent rumors of -, and makes some
predictioms as te whe will form the new Cabinet and
from which Party it will be dmwm.
fpg

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
172
894.002/172
894.00/336
Despatoh #2495
SEE
FOR
FROM
Great Britain
(Athertom
-..) DATED
Dec.18,1931.
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING:
Recent changes in Japanese Cabinet:Comments on -.
Enoleses an editorial from mm TImBs of Dec.14,1931,
in regard to -.
fpg

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/173
894.00/337
Despatoh #422
SEE
FOR
Japan
Forbes
Dec.17,1951.
FROM
..) DATED
HD
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Resignation of the Wakatsuki Cabinet and political
events leading up to and following this ccourrence.
Diseussten of - and comments on - .
1
fg
C3

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ...824.002.M.I.D..Roports/
FOR ...#5985
894.002/.174
FROM Bltary Atache(Japen). (...)ranford.) DATED ...De..3.1931
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Cabinet situation. Minister of Home Affairs advocates a National
Govermment as an aid to the present situation.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
1c2
894.001 H 61/59
#460
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
For bes
..) DATED
Jan.16,1932
894.002/175
TO
NAME
11137
REGARDING:
Recent attempt against Emperor of Japan and subsequent
course of the Cabinet. The off nder wa, Li io-sho,
(Kor an) alias Shoichi Asayama. Observations on the
case.
pra

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/176
SEE894.00PR/49
FOR ..desp..#458
FROM .....Japan
(.Forbes.) DATED Jan.15.1932.
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING: Cabinet ohanges - Japan
List of Ministers and designation of each
installed on December 13,1932.
fo
1
2

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.88)
restgmed. The folleuine day ne. Touyesks Imind, Loader
of the eppeestien (sesyetns) Perty mae erdered by the
Impeser to fesm a mes Cabimet. The mow Cabimes, whtch
ls cemstituted of the follewins persems, was fosmally
installed e esenber 13th:
Prim Münister
Teuyeahi Imukal
Minieter for Foreigm f airs
(Temperary)
Tsuyoshi Inukal
Hinister of war
Lieutemant Geserul
Sadeo Araki
Mintater of Marine
Admiral impo Osumi
Ninister or Home Afraire
Tokugoro Naka bashi
Minister of fimamse
Mr. (formerly Viseount,
Xerekiye Tammhashi.
Minister of Justise
Dr. Xisabare amki
Minister of Slueation
Ichire Hatoyamm
Minister or grieulture und
Ferestry
Teijire Yemamoto
Minister of Counieations
Chaso dtsucht
:dniater of Ra lwaye
Take jire Tekonami
nnister o? vorseas Af airs Toyosuke Hata.
The immediate sause of the full of the Cabimes was
apperently a pelitieal intrigme carried om by the Home
Mini ter, kr. Admchi. ir. Adaehi bad insiated, apparently
urged by certain Beiyukai me bers as well as by his own
aubitiem, thet a soalitiem abimet somposed of members
of beth pelitieal parties wus neeessary so selve the
menifold

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
a deadlesk, the best selutiom of which Premier webstosm
decided was resignatiem of all the Miaistere of stete.
The Gabinet change mas deseribed in detail in the Mmbassy's
despateh We. 42s of Deeember l9th. The part which the
Miteni interests are allegsd to have played in the dewm-
fall of the Cabimet is deseribed in the sizth sestiom of
this roport.
The publiey during the remainder or the month, ahosed
no partioular pleasure at the entry into power of the
Beiyakai, that party's unsavery reputation still being
freah in the mindsof many people.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.20/352
FOR ....#471
894.002/177
FROM ...Japan.
(.rbes.........) DATED .... Jan 29,1932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Senerol clections in Janan.
REGARDING:
In extraordinary meetiny ef the Co inet eb.20 was set
for - which was made necessary by disolution of t e
Diet.
f1

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokye, Jammery 29, 1oss.
No.491
The Honerable
The seeretary of state,
washingten.
S1r1
I have the momer te mmpplement my telegrem No. 19 of
Jamuery 81, l93s, reporting the disselutiem, w Dxperial
Ordimemee, of the Diet in ite sixtieth sessiom, on the dey
of ite comvemine after the heliday recess. The Ordimanse
simply reed, " we erder the disselutien of the Met, in
aeserdense with the previsiens of Artiele 9 of the In-
pestal Gonets tuss on".
Arter the disselatien, the Cabimet, in en emtse-
emcinesy mmetias, dueséed to fix Petreery so as the date
to

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.90)
foe the cemeral cleetien made nodeseasy by the ass-
selution. rhie date mas appreved by as Imperial er-
disanee.
Accerding te the Law of the Houses, 1t 1s necessary
for a newly eleeted iet to meet within five moaths of
the election, but it is oustomary for the sesslom to
conveme about ten days after an election. Thms, the
Lower House to be eleoted next month will probably
assemble in an extruordinary sesslon early in Nareh.
The diasolution of the det had been gemerally
antieipated and caused no surprise. the Covernment
could hardly be expeeted to earry out its admiaistre-
tive pelieiee while it was opposed sn the Diet by as
opposition majority. The party affiliations of meubers
of the Lewer House at the time of dissolutiem were as
follows:
Minseite
247
301yakal
172
Undeteraimed
29
( inoludim Adaoni raotios
Independents
3
Vacanoies
16
The situatiem is similar to that existing in l9sc, when
a Mimseite govermment lead by Lmmaguehi found itselr op-
pesed by a seiyakai majerity in the Diet. Aleo, the step
takem by the presemt Goverament to solve the situation
was similer to that takem by Xr. Hamagteki, exeept in
eme partioular. The Hameguchi sovernment alleved the
selyekal, then the Oppesitiem, to fermalate am iaterpella-
ssem en the Ge vermmeme peliey and to dobete the gevermment
pelsesee in the des befese askins for disselutiem. the
Imanas

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.90)
● 3 -
Immiat covermment, hoveves, dieselved the Met immediately
after the last efrsesal apeoeh had boen dolivesed tn the
Lever Lease.' Pee this aetsen it has breught Gomm the
almest umanimeus ceasuse of the press, whien aecuses
the cevernment of mz: lins the oppositien und of using
bis stiek metheds for attaining its end, to she detriment
of the canse of constituliomal pro ress. Tree, the
Cabinet pressnted its polieies to the House of peere em
the mormins of the dissolution and allosed interpellations
from the Peors, but the Oppositiom Party, whieh is not
mmerously represented in the pper Chamber, s s net tereby
given an edeguate eppertunity fer eritieim.
The press also expresses regret that, sinoe the d:s-
sélutiom was a foregom conelusion, u gemral elestion
should not have been called for as soon as the present
cabinet took ofriee instead of wuiting until the son-
veaine of the Diet. The . Ail, one of the most powerful
mewepapers of Japem, has peen partieularly 1msistent upom
the callins of a cemerel eleetien before the convenins of
the Diet. The reasens for mot so doing are obvious. The
Gevermment Party was hesltant to eall for en eleetion
immediately after appointment for fear of beine eritieized
for using " strong amm" taeties and foreing an appeal te
the eleeterete. Mereever, ne new govermment eares to begin
1ts admimistratiem with a step that will cost the country
many milliome in money. It may be added shat until the
samrede Msn imeident of Jamary 8 when an attempt was
Por the pecehes of the coverament leadere vide
Bmbesay'a desgateh meoé74, Jammary 29, 19s2.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.88)
hed some chanse of carvivins the atet seesten withses
an appeal to the eleeterate. The Oppesitien, momins
shat the minteaasse of its ssreatesie pesitien ia the
Lever House de pended on its good behavior and ccoperetien
wit: the Government, would not be inelimed to riek es
attack om a newly appointed abimet urless furniaked
with an u usually strong bludgeen. This it bes in the
Sakureda Mem affair, and she Cabimet, knowing thie to be
the ease, probebly decided to ast before the atteek eem-
onoed.
Lastly, the cabimet has probably delayed ealling for a
gemerel eleetiem until its own pelitieal muehinery had been
built up throughout the country. simee the appointment
of the Imakai cabinet, w deapreu ohanges have been made
in the porsennel of govermors and police officiele of the
prefectural govermments, who are in a pesition to bring
great inflwemse to bear in eleetions, and at present the
selyukal ean faee the eleetions with a curtaim amount of
eonfidemee.
study of the editerial colume of the Japanese press
indieates that the publie realises that the coming elestiom
presente & questios of desisiom of unusuel impertemee to the
Matiem at lergs. It is ebvious shat neisher of the twe majer
parties ls pepular. The impendins eleetiom is sigmirieant
is that to an ummsuel extems it is to be a contest betmeen
pelieies aad pletferme, rether them persomalities as is
meually the ease in Japen. these has seldom beem as
eleesten in wheeh she 1ssuss have been so well defined
and the difreresse botween the stasde of the eppecins
pssete.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.83)
● 8 ●
La regese to fisassse, the soiyene plane to raise
reade and to balanee the bedges bo sssuins bende and ne
poading the msttenal sinking fand, witheut ineveesing
tasation, the measeite prepesss te colve the problame of
matienal finance by imereased tares and by administrative
adjustmeats. sgaimet the iarlation pelley of the Seiyukai,
the Minseite stands fer eurremey deflation and she stabill-
matien of ezehange rates. There is a redieal aifferense
between the twe parties on the qwestion of she gele standard.
The Wimeeite Berty has eonsistently stood fer :ree expert
of geld and mmimtenanee of she gold standard, while she
Selyakai has been an advoeate ef inflatien and  e barge
on sol4.
The Selyukai proposes to earry out an ambitious five-year
1ndustrial plan, to cost Yem 360, 0u0, 00, and to orgaaime a
memepely ef riee. It proposes plans for extomsive waterway
and nighmey censtrueties, as we!l as improv mente ia com-
mmnientiems and railways. In contrest to these pesisive
sthemes, the Minseite declares for a strieter regulation
and rmtiemalimasien ef industries, lookins toverd an in-
eressed efrisieney ef output.
Lastly, there ls the matter of the attitude of the twe
parties tesese the milisary autivities in Mamehmris. Neither
party hae, in 1te publie statements, made mention ef 1ts
attitude temese the aray, bat it is understeed that the
Seiyaas stends for elese coeperatien with the military -
therittee, whale the as tery er the Minseste ahese that it
hae eppesed empensien of the pomere of the malstary covezee
mone ane hee endeevesed, wite lsttle susesss, te euse the
eessvities of the smey La Mametrte. n my be meattense
une mester yesty ne one feresne vith asy dotaste slee

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
一 ● -
fer Japas te follew in Masekmrse after the present
milstasy actien is eempleted. Beth parties estatsate en
the impertanee of shet regiem to the exietesee of Japen,
bet meither have any definite prepesals for censelidating her
position in Manehuria.
The Seiyukmi, being the Government Party whieh, under
ordimery cireumatances always wins in eleotions, is comceded
the better chanee of smuscess in the coming eleetions. Im
the first place, the Goverment Party has the advantage of
administering the eleotion laws and of proseeuting, or
overloeking, breaches of the regulations. For this purpose
it cam make ohanges in governmental and poliee personnel,
insuring that its own interests are supported. Secondly,
the Gevernment party is usually more emply provided with
campaign funds than is the Opposition. In the present
ease, this point has unusual signifieance. The reimposi-
tiem of the gold embargo by the Emukai Govermment enabled
several big banking firms to make emormous prefits on
ezehaage, and the naturel expestatiom is that these firms
will new share their prefits with the Government party.
Under ordinary comditions a government newly appointed
te offiee would have a elear advantage in a general election
for the simple reasem of newmess and absenee of an unfavor-
able past record. These factors operate to some extent
in the presems eleetiem, but simse its assumptiom of offise
the seiyakai has hed a tremendeus blew dealt te its fortumes
by the samarese Mem affair. Thie affair, toushing as it
dees the pereem of the Eaperer, is an umeertein quantity
in pelitieel calouletioms, but has certainly hare the
sesguabas emss. The Minseite will unéeubeeely uee 1t to
ome entems ian es teskins the Gevesmmmt, bat 1s is a deapsrems

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.86)
wempen, as 1t may eaeily preve te be e beemereng for
anpeme usins the Hapeser's mame fer pelitieal parpeses.
Parthermere, the Selyaisai has mever completely resevered
from the evil reputatien it earmed during she Tamake
Mimistry when the Party was iavelved in sraft and seandal.
The seiyakai does have the tvantage of good organt-
zation and lead rahip. t. In kai, with nis lone yeare
of politieal expe rience, is w sirpassed as a leader, and
he ns shom couruge and reaoureefulness in the fow weeks
be has headed the Jovernment. n the other hani the
Minseite will be handles ped in the sleetion by she hack
of fim londership. arm tki hs not proved to o
a strong leader, and the rty is still muf ering from
the sheek or the ins 1 sehism, us well as from the less
of that wily "leetiom maumgar( es Xmbasey's despateh
Ne. <2, of December 17, l93l).
I shall met fall to repert to the wepartmeat the
cuteeme of the semerel electien to be held om Fobreary
Both.
Respeetrully yours,
#. Camerem Ferbes.
my. ou.-J
/
A true coppy
the sigual arigi.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
994.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/368
# 509
SEE
FOR
894.002/178
Japan
Neville
Feb.27,1932
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1197
2
REGARDING:
Election results give Soiyukai 157 majority over the Minseito in
the Japanese diet.
ok

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
The Honorable
The Seoretar: of State,
Washington.
sir:
Supplementing my tolegram No. 75, of Pebruary 24,
3 P.M., I have the honor to submit the following repert
on the results of the general eleation held on Febrmary
20th.
it the tim of the dissolutiom of the Diet om January
21, the representation of the various prties in the Dist
was as follous:
-2

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo, Fouruary xy, Lou...
o, 509.
The Honorable
The eoretar of tute,
ashington.
s1r:
Supplementing my telegram No. 75, of February 24.
3 P.M., I huve the nomor to submit the foilowing report
on the results of the eneral eleotion held on february
20th.
At the time of the dismolution of the Diet on January
2l, the representation of the varicus parties in the Jiet
was as follows:

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.92)
Minseito
247
Seiyuka1
171
Various
29 ( 1nol11ng adaoh1 factlon)
Vacunoies
16
Befure the eleotion it was generally antiolpated that
the Goverment party (eiyukai) would win. owever,
even the oat uptimlstio o. the elyukui Leuder nud
t re t rediot a vletory us comlete thetion
utuully orsu ht lo their rt he test i ution
retrns re s ro:low:
etyukai
04
inseito
147
laohi f.tion
5
cakuahin club
roletrian
Houtral
Total
486
he m jority thue obtained o. the iyukai i the
largeat f ny in the arlimentry 1 tr n.
he oasual obs rver of to cl otion 1 ht a   lude, from
the enoroous jority saind u. he prty, that issues f
extruordinary 1aportunoe lad een resented t t oislon
of the voter,  tt te leution r t rns re resented
a leriuite ox ression of vubliu will. otully, thi wus
not the ouse, insorr us 1 t ole to lot ruine. ne may
l. k in vain for any utstuniing f tur . lch auuld turn
the supoort of the publie t wurd o trer of th two ujor
purtles.
The student of the eoent eleotions woul: no:foe that
little roference wus mide to party rinoiples in this
electiom. They were, in fuot, a minor oonsi lerution. soth
parties, of course, deolared their prinoiples. But va ,ueness
and

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
A and similarity characterise the program of the two
major parties. There is, it 1s true. : eertaim dis-
tinotion in the nopular mind botween the two parties.
The Mineeito hus stood for u pussive, or oonservative
polioy, undertukine to solve the nation's dirrioulties
by striot eeonomy and a program of retrenohment. To
this end it has enforoed und supported the free export of
gold, and had advooated inoreased tuxat1on and avoidunce
of louns to balnoe te national bud et.
un the othor nd. the seiy ika1 iool red tat 
olioy or inrlation  s n oeasary t. suve the n tion. It
stood fo tho enbargo on old and eclared tut instsad
of res rtin: to tuxution, it mould eet obli  tiong by
borrowin. In eneral the 1yukal tds, n te ublie
mind, for a positive or autive oiioy. It has, it is
true, set torth a progran of ten fundaental olicies,
whioh inolude a five-yeur Industrial program, proteotion
of domestio inlustry by inoreased uustoms Jutie, ducuti nal
reforas, r tionali atlon or iuustry, roduotion of t xos
and Inoreuses in sul ries of oivil s rvants, et ceteru.
towever, very l1ttlo attention hs bee id to t 1s ro-
ram by the publlo or the press, it beIn fully reulized
thst these moasures represent uspirations rather t an
polioies, for wnion there is little expectation of
realization.
These polloles featured vut little in the lotins.
here was muoh heard of slogans o? rosperity und de ression,
and a great deal about personalities, out neither p rty
had anything definite to  er in the way o conorete
prugrams

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.91)
4
grams. The viotory of the geiyakai, overwhelmin as it
bas, may be uttributed to a variety of factors, none of
extraordinary signifiounce, whion I shall ondeavor to outline
here below .
1. The Minseito has foun! 1teelr growing steadily
weaker Juring the past year, due to an extruordinary series
of unfortuate events, beginning with the ussault on the
arty's stalwart lender und resi lont, r. uguohi. r.
 a uchi's rest nation and subseqle l leath wus the odcasion
for a centrirugal movement  ong the le sser leaders of the
Party. General Ugaki ( wno althou n ot a . rty n us
cs1dered  potentiul r1 lest  t t) res ne from
t e binet. pron katsuki, who wos recuiled run retire-
ent to eu! the urty in the ope of unitin t c nte in
fuotl mo,  rov to be  disu otntin le der, 1 ekin.
in ualitles or Lalrni n: politloal aoumen. e was
u ble to rovont frtction mon 1s lleutounts,  ioh
friotion ld to the so ian o daohi un the loss t at
master leotion enineer to t e urty.
1th thowur ll  theineito binet in ece mber,
the arty had on its rull n  es or  ly three ersons or out-
standing rsolity: r. 1, frmer inlter of 11wuys,
Huron hi dehara, mi r. Inouye, rer inister of Finance.
r. 1 has been seriously 111 ith oaneer; uron ni ra
has be 1ll and unable to take part in the capuign; and
r. Inouye mot his deoth ut the und of a liticul ussussin
a fes days before the election. the deuth of r. Inouye, wio
had been uppointed campaign n gero the inseito, s
almost to be the lust straw on t he verburiened urty, not
only beoause of the direot loss to the . arty, but also becuuse
the

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
ceremonies attendant upon his runeral disrupted the
campaign of the Minseito and required the atlendanoe and
time or the inseito leuders.
In oonsequenoe o these ovents, the Minseito faoed
the eleotions with a shaky organization, u low morale, and
loss of publio oonridenoe. un t he other hand, the elyukai has,
sinoe 1ts iecisive defoat in t he  on ral :leations of l930.
b:ilt up a strons inte"nal urganization, eliminatin much
of the undesirable el kent which orcu ht on the soandals
and mismanagement or he anuke inistry ave  pointed
as le ader of the  arty r. Jnukai, rob ly the most ustute
politioian In Japan und . an or 1 tively hi h inte, rity.
won the rty lealers re men who if not in the lirst
rank o tutesmen,re of o cnovledged ability: ot ly
r. ahushi, the rese t in1 t r o ina oo, and .
uzuki, pr sent inister of Ju tioe. The publio oould
ot but be 1 pre  sed witn the superiority of the leaders
of the seiyukai t those of the inseito.
2. The 1yukai, be1n: the cover ment urty, ha a
jocided advantage in t he l otions. hebassy has fro-
lent ly referred t the xiom in  an that the overment
arty ulvnya 1ns in le t1 ns. ihis 1s x 1 ined b the
faot that eleotions ure eld throu hout the vountry under
the supervision r the polioe, sho are respoisible to te
refeetural covernors, and t cy in turn  the iister of
Home ffaire. The mbasy reporteie ti e o tut
there had been an extensive c nge mon: the rofetural
ovornors and polloe chiefs fo low in the cuunge of
goveranents in December. ihe police are able, us ad-
ministrators of the very striot elections luws, to in-
fluenoe voting by proseouting or overlooking breuohes
of the regulations. There have been, however, fewer com-
plaints

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
-6-
Plaints of polioe interferenee in this election than
in the past. : ssibly the Seiyukal feared a repetition
of the widesproad publio resentment w ieh rusulted from
the abuses of the last elootlon helt under a Seiyukal
Gover:ment.
he f ct that the Government arty is always able to
win in eleotlons has caused many thinkin people to have
rave doubts as to the representutive onaruoter of par-
liamentary coverrunent in Jupan. he rollowing uules
show the results of the tnree leotions held inot the
enuot ent of the Manhood suffruge Law in l9≈5, and
demonstrate plainly the uivantuge of oo trol by the
jarty in pover over the lections:
strength at
trenth uftor
rarty
dissolution
eleotions.
1928(se1yuka1 1o. er,
190
19
inseito
≥19
217
1930(.inse1to1
o.er
173
273
e1yukai
37
174
1932(e1yuka1(1n 0.er)
171
304
Inseito
247
147
In euch ouse the Coverrment rarty hu:  one into
the elootion with a considerable minority, and hus e rged
with a majority. It is lain that the ountrol over the
aleotorate is too moh in the hands of the arty in po er
to permit of a free expressiom of popular will at the
polls.
3. A third faotor int he rosult or the eleotions is
the matt:r of campaign funds. The seiukai had far
greater runds at 1ts oommand than did the Minseito. This
U
is usually true of the Govermment party, booause of its
control over valuable comcessions, but was partioularly
marked

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
arked in the recent eleotions. The reimposition of
the gold embarge by the Inukal Government enabled several
big banking fimas to make enormous prorits on dohange, and
1t 1s common ossip t hat a share or this money found 1ts
way 1at, the party ooffers. Bribery and buying of votes
ure punishable under th: eleotion laws, but the press
insist that they are commonly practioed. ihere is maid
to be plenty of evidenoe of corruption in the recent
elootions.
4. here undoubtedly exists, and this was of oon-
sideruble cr eot in t he elootions, a disino inution on
te art of the ublio to ohange overents during the
oritical op rations in hina. here wus u doubtedly a
large body of opinion whlon wus iolined to ullow the
e1yukai : fair onoe to ourry out its policles not
only vis-a-vis China, but also in other directions.
The eiyukai lhus been in oer only a rew weeks, and has
hardly had opportunity to prove its mettle.
5. he influe ce of the rmy has been pointed to as an
1mportant faotor in the viotory or the eiyukat. The
resent overiment is nown to aot in oloser o oper tion
with the ilitur a thoritios than did the inseito
overnent, an the 1 pression is en ral that the sc1yuka1
supports the rmy aotion in china.hatever dissension
t ere may be among Juptnese in regard to intemal politics,
they y be expeoted to rally solidly behind the rmy in
action against  fo eign peo,le. This support ay be at-
tributed to « feelin: of confi enoe in the patriotio
notives of the military Le adera- : confidenoe not ex-
tended to the politioians. The Army. with its thousands
of reservists soattered throughout the mpire, can be a
powerful factor even in elections. In a ohoice between
the

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.93)
The Mineelto and seiyaimi, the rmy would probably throw it
influenee tomard the latter party.
In conneetion with military esnsideratioms, montion
should be made of the real dissatisf etion of the publie
with the foreign polioies of Baron shidehare. s a
prophet w1thoat henor in his own land, Burom Shidehare
has suf:crod considerable diainution of his reputation.
However favorably his vonoillatory  oliclas may be re-
garded abroad, the faot i: that they ure la rgely dis-
oredited in Japan at pre nt. the my 1s n the sadile,
and sonoillatiom has been avandoned, with publlo approvel,
for a more vigorous polioy.
A point, whion may be or speoulative interest, 1s
the o cot of the hostllities in china on the result of
the oleotlons. it u. t be kopt in mind that the press
1n Jupan hs been sutjeotod to a rigorous cenmorship,
orevenIn t en ral publio from oquirin any ao-
ourate lege of the etual tate f ufrs. The
publio haa bean assiduou ly eduoatod t bellere that
Jupanese autivities in china huve bee : entirely derenaive.
and has been Infor e! that those s tivitles ave been
uniformly suoceserul. hetasr or not a knowledge of
the actual state of affairs would have arreoted the
eleetion results is ourjectural.
5. It 1s senerally balieved trat the irincipal
reasons for the defeat of the Minseito *ere e conomie,
althouh neither party had very wuoh to say in its
campaigm in regard to eoonomic matt rs. The publio, oon-
seiously or unounsoiously, responded to the Government's
slogan * Prosperity and the Seiyukai; depression and
the Minseite". The Seiyukai was uble to point to some
ino reased

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
-9-
izereased busimess activity sinse its assumptiom of
offiee in Decemer last, although there is met mek
evidenee of any pe rmanent imprevememt. Priees have
risen, local trade has been stimlated, and wages have
1noreased to some extent. Even these people who realise
that the inseite poliey of eeomemy and retrenehment
was a sounder guide to the eventual good of the natiom
eest their votes for the Belyukal, feeling that e ven a
temporary prosperity was better than the bleak prospeot
orfered by the Ainseito program. Aotually, the Minseito
program had failed to a oonsiderable extent, through
no fault of the leaders. what it had done in an effort
to 1mprove national finanoes hud only made motters worse
for the  enerul publio. ihe masses deoided, apprently.
that a victory for the Minneito would doatroy what
chance there ex sted for a revival of prosperity.
It 1s loubtfil whether muny peo le took the trouole
to noquaint themselves wit the claims of a Soiyukai
oandidate before oastin: their vote for hin. It 1s
equally doubtrul whether the voters approvel of the
avowed program of the eiyukai. It ould seen t hat the
publlo was willing to vote for any oandidate or the
rarty whieh offered the best hope of elef frm the
depression.
As I had the honor to report in y te legram, the
eleetlons passed quietly and were marked by a minimm
of disorder. Events in China, us well us the severe
economio depression revailing at home, tended to
distraot the attention of the ublio from the eleotion.
Indeed, no eleetiom in resent years has aroused so
11tt1

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.94)
Le imtereet.
Cemtributing to this apathetie attitude on the part
of the publie is a feeling, widely commented on, that
the representative system of covernment has preved to
be a failure. This feeling has growm out of iisgust at
the venality of the politieians, disillusionmont at the
freodom xith which the parties oreak proulses and lodges,
imputirnoe xit the luok of final authority uf the Govern-
uont under the provisions of the oonstitutiom, und dis-
appointment at the parties fo th-1r failure to present
1ntelligent programs of administ ration or to give the
nation good governmant. In t 1s oo: meotion I quote from
an editorial rtiole in the 0 XA MaINI HI, a powerrul
and conservative newspaper:  The prestige of parliamentarism
is fast deolining consequont upon the low politioal morality
of the leadin: purties. There are peo le whe are apprehonsive
Lest Fasciam may oome into existence in J pan. :e do not wish
t believ: that the conditions in our country are so bed
 to require this irastic oporation. Nevert eless, ve annet
be blind to the feot that unless the dignity of parliamentarism
is rmeovered without delay, the crisis may come". Indieations
are not lackimg that suoh movements have a en planned.
Prior to the day of the elections, eaeh voter was pro-
vided with a sertifieate of eligibility, which was exohanged
for a ballet at the voting plases on eleetion day. The voter
was required te inseribe on the ballot the neme of his
candidate, and te deposit the ballot in a bex. scording
to official reports, a total of 9,706,431 votes wes east.
A comsiderable mumber of these votes were lavalid beeause
east for prsoms met eandidates for eleetioms. It is said
that George Washing om received a mumber of votes in Tokye.
The tetal mmber of registered veters was 1s,  57,sel, but
who

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.95)
-11-
Then the veters 1n the ten distriete which returmed their
candidates uno pesed are exeluded from this total, the
figure 1s redueed to 11,989,65s. The preentage of absent
voters is thes 22.2. it the first eleetiom under universal
manhood s ffrege held 1n lezo the peroentase of absent
voters was 21.3. and 1n 1930 the  roentage deoreused to
19.0.
That the resent xroe tage or voters shoul: remain
so relatively high, after ahe novelty of voting had worn
off in the two previous cleotions, is a souroe of some
gratirioation to students of a rliamentarism in Japan.
The high vute oast may in purt be mooounted for by the
provision fur the eleotiom of several me bers or the iet
fr m eaeh or the 1: 2 electoral districts- the number vury ing
wit the populatiom of the distriote. Thus on distriet
lias 1ts own oompetitive battle between a number of vandi-
lates, whioh tends to oreate a more direet interest in the
campaign on the part ur the voters than aight exist in a
nationwide oompetition.
r the total or 9,706,431 votes cast, the Se1yuka1
rece1ved 5,639,311 votes and the in 1te 3,397,:38. S1me
they obtained 304 and l47 seats respeotively, 1t will be
fou d that every Seiyuka1 mo ber represents 18, 72t voters
and that every Min eito member reprosents 23,llo voters.
▲ feet whieh is comonly pointed to as evidenee of the
growing intelligemee of the Japanese eleetorate, is the
gradual elimimatiom of the independent and anall purty  bers.
In the past the emell purty members have eontributed little to
parliamentary progress, and mve beem mainly useful by lending
themseives to ome of the major parties to furnish a tempo-
rary majority in the Lemer House- for a con sideratiom. The
followims

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
-18-
following table shows the deerease in the small party
representatives sinoe l915:
Year of eleetion
small party e bers ret.rued
1915
125
1917
97
1980
73
1924
83
1926
35
1928
30
1930
19
1932
15
The oulte show pulte leurly the trend toward the
two-p.ty a stem in japan,  trent w io s s t ve v en
phasized by the atablis ument of unho u rge.here
1s an historioal buok rou d for the two-pu rty system in
vapan. inoe eurly in the lelj1 era t ere huve cxisted
two roups of politioians, eve: though the olan bureauor ay
interfored v t the norul workin of  two-rt stem.
The Jiyuto wus the prourcessor of the e1. ukul, n: the
Kaishinto or te inseito, whose pespeotive hi tories
extend baok firty y-ars.
of the maaller groups, the lueni faction polled
145,667, the noutrals 176,739, nd the proletariuns
256, 629. Thus euoh adaoh1 pe uber pepresents 9, 133 voters,
eueh proletarian penber represents 5l,  25 voters, nd c oh
independent meaber represents 58,913 voters.
These figures indieate the necessity of orgunization
for suocess in t he eleetions. The eiyukai, with its
excellemt politioal maohine, was able to distribute 1ts
oandidates in msh manner us to obtain the l rgest return
for the lowest propertional nuabe: of votes. At the other
extreme are the independents und proleturians, who luoking
efreotive organization wasted a goodly proportion of the
votes east for them. The relatively effiotent dispesitien
of

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
Votes for the Meehs fecttem 1s assounted fer
277
by the limited mamber of eandidates under that hoad
and the prestige whieh the mame of the former Minceite
chiertain still earries.
The shewing of the preletarian candidates int he
electien was prtieularly disuppointing: Unly five
were suecessful from amon: the 29 eand dates. The
numbr eleeted is the same as in t e previous  etion,
but the total mumber of votes cast for pro etariams
was 201,140; a 1o8e of 227, 00u fra the 193. total.
In the first general eleetion und r manhood suffrage
the proletarian placed seven members in the iet and
their prospeets for the future appeared bright. ap-
parently they huve mot justified the early expeotutions,
and have continued to lose influemee und favor among
the publio. any thinking vupanese rogard the pro-
letariat fallure wit, apprehension. Given repre-
sentatiom in t he Jiet it was hoped that the proletarians
would direet their activities into oonstruetive eusures
and prevent the growth of dangerous radiealism.
The ehier reasem for their defeat was apparently
disunity. Cooperatiom and organ1matiom amang the various
factions seems impessible of accomplishment. In aidition
the failare of the proletariam representatives in the iet
to bring about passagegof any legislation bem riting te
working slasses has eaxsed the people of t ose olasses
t. turm from them im diseouragememt. The oaly proletarian
euber of any prominenee eleeted is Dr. Isoo Abe, furmerly
of wasede University. banji Samaki and Ikuo Oyama, pro-
nimems proletariam Leaders, were both defeated.
Too

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.88)
-14-
The Minseite lost mmxy premiment mexbers in the
eleotiem. Among there unsuccessrul uandidates are
一
Mr. Hara, fomer Wimister of Railwaye; ar. Nakwura,
former President of the House of Representatives; and
Mr. Kobashi, rormer Minister of Kuuoation.
here is nuthine in the ja lese eleotion luw to
prevent miniatere oi late irom runiine ro a veat in
tre viet. in faet tne praotioe ia alaust u iversal,
exeet mon the iniateru  ar enu vy, w. ure
not me iber of polilioal riiee. in this cleotion ull
nombers of the catinet aro ren ror  rice were suocsscful.
The remier, ineidentally, i. ie oldest we ber of the
'ower How.
uf the tnree inuependents olocteu, cne mas a sorean,
r. Boku Shin Kin. li1: vandidaey in Tokyo aroused mch
terest, imsomueh as ne un ournced t at his cbjeet in standing
is to temonstrate the luyalty of Koreuns to the mp ror, and
to vindieate the reputation or Koreans injured in  neral
y the Sakureda Mom afrair, in wmion a Korean made an
ittempt on the life of the Rmperor. He is t:e first Koream
to be ek eted to the iet. Anothur independent rmetarned to
the Diet is Yukie uzaki, the veteran politieian now ebroad.
Roopootfully yours,
For the mbassair:
Edwim L. Meville,
Mmbassy's File Ne. 8OJ.Japan.
Counselor of Embassy.
WTT/SR
A true xpry
Lie sigued ade

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.87)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/1
120 F0r6.
caro171 FOR
SEE
C0010131
ar.19.1932
Janan
..) DATED
FROM
1-1187
NAME
xQx
79
REGARDING:
Farewe ll lun heon . iv.. . r A uassador F rbes by  inister of
Marine: Re rt re ar in -,  s cech of he Min ster, trans-
i
2
0c

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo, Japan, Laroh 19, 1982.
Cencsaenssale
The homorable
The seoretary of state,
Wamhington.
Dear Mr. Secretary,
I think the situation has very greatly calmed down
in the last few days. Those quivering aapens, B. W.
fleiaher and Bassomplerre, the Belgian Ambassador, who are
so highly sensitised that they note the lightest movement
1n ourrent opinion, both tell me that the tension is being
steadily relieved although by no meens pessed.
I have had a rather ourious experienee with Gemeral
vato of the Army, who mas detalled te eecompany us when
eneral Wood and I were the guests of the Japamese Gevern-
ment in losl. We had a very cordial meeting when I first
arrived, hut simee then I have tried taree times to see him
to say good-age and ask him the history of a sword whieh the
Army has presented to me. The first two times he said he
s

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.93)
一 8 -
wms too busy to meet me either at luneh er at any sive
during the afternoom or evening: and fimally he teld
Colomel keIlroy that he would call up and arrange to meet
me but did nothing about it. I don't reel that I ahould
pursue the matter any further, nor does Coionel moIlroy.
He did tell ollroy that he would asoertain what I wantea
to know and infom Jeneral LoCoy. He 1s probably dyed-
in-the-wool and in this reaotionary sroup of the military
olique mow im the maddle, although be is retired. He
cither thinks it would set hi. in wrong with his olique
1f he saw me, or he nas some personel grudge (whieh it is
diffieult for m to believe), whieh manifeste 1tselr in
this way. On the other hand, Jenerel Araki, the present
Minister or War, who, as I think I have written you, is
being branded e traitor to their cause by the olique now
in power, being mere or less of a leader before, has taken
every cceasion to be cordial and polite. He attended my
reception at the formal opening and wont out of his way
especially to meet Theodore Hoosevelt when he came through.
He alse attended as a guest or honor the faremell dimner
given in my homer last night by the meriea-Japan Soclety,
and eame up and said pleasant things.The Winieter or
Marime gave a luneheon in my honor at whieh they had many
ranking admirels, imoluding Viscount Saito, who is talked of
as the mext premier and whe informed me that he was having
a pioture embroidered as e sift to me before leaving.
émiral Toyode has been mest eerdial.
I en enelesing herewith a eepy of the speeeh of the
Minister of Marime in which he gees to the length of in-
dieating that he thinks the situation might have been mmeh
oo

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
more serious if it had not been for my estivity and efrorts.
I am quite sure that this emanates from Toyode who hes been
very close to the uritish mbassador. Toyode has beem very
sordial to  and conrided to me that le had sugested that
this luneh be arranged. ie also said he was trying to ar-
range for a meetine with Baron shidehare and he thought it
could be arrangou so that the Baron could may good-bye to
me. Nagel, however, saiu last nigh: it would be absolute-
ly impossible to see shidehare, and that he is extremely
anxlous to see we and say good-bye, but that he wms confined
to his bed and that it was out or the question to see me.
This does not entirely confonu to the newspeper report a
few days ago, to the effect that he hed largely recovered
and was returnins to his home.
I. am merely mendino this elong as so much gossip for
your personal inforvation.
Respeatfully yours,
h. Caneron rorbes
0/
a0.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.93)
 MADE Y TA MINUTEH VI THE NAVE
AUIHAL MINEU OUNI UPON THE OOOASION OU
 SAREWELL LUNCHEON GIVEN BY HIM BUR
His Exeelleney Mr. forbes and Gentlemen:
It is a matter of sinoere regret for us that His
Exeellemey is leaving Japan at tais moment, mhen his
serviee is most emphatieally needed in the interest ef
the American-Japanese friendship. kush has happesed
during Hie Exoellenoy's stay in Tokyo, and were it not
fer his able handling or the various problems thet eropped
up in rapid susoession in Manchurie. and Shanghai, we
could never estimate to what extent the world's msunder-
standing of our aetions might have developed. le owe it
to His kxeelleney's untiring efforts that we have not
fared weree.
Truths regarding Shanghai will wear out in course of
time as the exoltement eools. If after going home His
Exeellemey will use his personal influence to explain for
us and remove all she misunderstandings, we will have every
reason to be grateful to him for very leng indeed. No
serviee is more valueble for us than that he will sentimue
to spare a paxt of his presious time for the eamse fer
whieh he has so stremously labored mhile in Tekye.
Bere is eme thing I ean assare His Exeellemey, and
16 is that he will mever be betrayed even if he tell his
pooplo

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
people that Japan always covets the friendship of the
Americams. This 1s no diplomatio language, but the ex-
pression of what we keemly feel at heart. If there is any
1ssue to quarrel over between our two countries, we will
accept in a spirit of resignation what ill melings may
perohanee happen to row. s it is, however ir merioans
stop to think for a moment 1f there is any much issue, they
will imediately find out that they have been exoited about
mothing.
I would ask 1s xoelloney by this ocoasion to convey
our greetings to our Amerioan comrades-in-arms. The arme-
ment 1s the emblem or the natlonal prestige. It is the
veritable anohor of the world peace as long as its pri ary
mission of defenee 1s not forgotten. Japan and America ean
remain firm friends through their navies. In the recent
Shanghei, for instanee, the close cooperation between our
two mavies has contributed in no small meamure to the
maintenanee of friendly feelings between the Japenese and
american residents. The atmosphere of friendship and som-
redeship always maintained between our sailors has more than
counteracted the evil efrect of propagandas made to play
us off against eaeh other.
I want to eonelude my address with the expression of
our good wiskes for his health and happiness and our earnest
desire to see him come beek to this couatry like some of
ex-foreign diplomatie represemtatives who returned to Japan
as private eitisens to mix with as and work for the pro-
motiem of mtual friendahip.
Mere is to His Kxeelleney's everlasting good luek
and long 1150!

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/180
SEE894.00/388
FOR Tel.#126.10pm
Jepan
Nov1ll...) DATED.My 15.1932
FROM
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
attack on Prim Minister Ki Inmkai, who was
shot and critically wounded.
1

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
MET
GRAY
Tokio
Dated May 15, 932
Reo'a 10:35 a.m.
Seorctary of State,
Washington
126, May 15, 10 p.m.
I am informed orally by the Foreign Offioe that the
Prime Minister was shot early this evening and is now in
oritical condition. An attack mas also made on Count
Makino's residenoe but he escaped injury as he was not at
home. The attackers appear to have ridden about the city
in several automobiles and to have been dressed in military
and naval uniforms. In passing the metropolitan police
office one party dischargod several pistol shots causing
at least one fatality. The Seiyukai headquarters and
other plaoes are reported bombed.
I understand that some eighteen attackers have been
apprchended or have given themselves up. They claim to
bo mombers of the young offioers' assooiation who are
opposed to weakness and corruption in government and to
capitalian.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.92)
MOCT
3-#136 from Tokio, May 15, 10 p.m.
oapitalism.
Otherwise the city appears quiet. I have no reason
to antioipate danger to Americans here or to the Embassy,
and no anti-foreign feeling is manifest.
NEVILLE
wwo

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/181
SEE
894,00/389
FOR Tel.1128.4pm
FROM .Jn
(....111....) DATED .y.16..1932
TO
NAME
REGARDING: resignation of Cabinet, following death of Prime Minister
Immkai.
1s
C

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
REP
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated May 16, 1932
Rec'd 6:28 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
128, may 16, 4 p. m.
Department's telegram No. 106, ilay 15, 5 p. m.
Instructions carried out.
The situation is outwardly caln although the Cabinet
has just resianed. It is too early to five an accurate
staterent of politcal developments.
NEVILLE
McL
HFD

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 182
094.00.P.R./58
FOR Deepatch  560.
SEE
(Nev11le) DATED Apr11 7. 1988.
FROM .... Japan
TO
NAME
1-1127
152
REGARDING:
Resigmation of Mr. Nakahashi as Minister for
Heme Affairs mas actually in eonsequence
of the Sakurada Mon Affair im January be-
eause aecording to Japanese idees, Mr.
Nakakesbi bore the omus of responsibility
for the attempt om the haperor.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/183
894.00/399
FOR To1. 136. 5 p
SEE
FROM
Japan
(Neville
) DATED May.23.1932
TO
NAME
-1187
REGARDING:
Amnouncement of Cabinet personnel has not yet
been made, nor is ome likely for several
days.
bs
3

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated May 23, 1982
Rec'd 5:57 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
136, May 23, 5 p. m.
Admiral Viscount Makoto Saito received the Imperial
3
command to foru a Cabinet yesterday evening. His selection
is viewed as a compromise between extreme nationalism and
partisanship. He is acceptable to military, politicians
and public. The press regrets departure from party govern-
ment but considers the appointment justifiable and welcome
under the present urgent and difficult circumstances. No
&nncuncement of the Cabinet personnel has been made, nor
is one likely for several days.
NEVILIE
HPD

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.90)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 184
SEE04.0O D. R./53
FOR Deepatch 0.
FROM J
( Nov111e) DATED y B. 108.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Tokyo District Court roported to have passed
a sentence of death on Tomeo Sogaya, who
shot ex-Premier Hamaguchi.
hs
81
九

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.82)
e f al t  the Lo tee 
ceantel et covesal yoase egs."
The Tokye Distriet Court wae repertee to heve pessse
a centense ef death en Tomse segage, the shes esopremier
Inmguski. The soveri ty of the penalty me thonght ia
894,002
some quartere to be besause of sinilar resent estivities of
mombers ef seeret sosieties and reaetiomary bedies.
G.  
On April 14tm, Dr. and Mrs. Imase Nitobe sailed for
the Umited States on a good-will trip.**
 soe Kabesay's despateh No. 114 of Apr11 82, 1980.
** See mbesay's deapateh No. s69 ef Apri1 7, 19ss, nd
Labassy's telegram Ne. 113 of Apri1 18, 1932, 18

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/185
SEE
894.00/405
FOR
Tel.#141 5pm
FROM
Japan
Neville
) DATED
May 26, 1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
new cabinet Anstallation.
Viscount Salto will hold office of Foreign Minister
in addition to his post as Prime Minister, for the
time being.
185
1s

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
01b
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated May 26, 1933
Rood 6:46 a.m.
Seoretary of Stato
Washington.
141, May 26, 5 p.m.
The new cabinet was installed this afternoon.
Tor the time being Visoount Saito will hold the offioo of
Foroign Minister in addition to his post as Prime Minister.
It is expeoted that the Diet will be called in session next
week when the government will prosont plans for meeting
prosent orisis.
Tho oabinet contains membors of both political
parties besides some men of no political affiliations.
NEVILLE
JS OIB

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 186
SEE_894QQ/4Q6
FOR .Tel..571..1pm
FROM ...China
(Johnaon) DATED May..27.1932
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING: The Japanese cabi et formed under Vi count Saito.
The Cabinet includes the following men:
Premier and Forein Minister Viscount Minoru Saito; Home,Baron
Tatsue Yamamoto; 'inance Kerekiyo Takahashi;War,General Senjuro
Hayashi;Navy, Admiral Keisuke Okada;Justice, Matsukichi Koyama;
Education, Ichiro Hotoyamm; Agriculture and Dendrology,Fumito
Goto; Commerce and Industry, Kumakichi Nakashima; Communications,
Hiroshi Minami;Railroads Chuzo Mitsuchi; Overseas,Ryutaro Nagasi;
Chief Cabinet Secretary, Zenzaburo Shibata; Director of the
Legislative Bureau, Zenjiro Horikiri.
Gives estimate of the Cabinet's ability to meet the present situation
and the reaction of the public and the military to the choice.
ok

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
01b
PLAIN
Peiping via NR
Dated May 27, 1933.
Reod 2:54 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington.
571, May 27, 1 p.m.
Following from Nippon Dempo:
One."May twenty-fifth.
The new government
under Viscount Saito has been formed as follows: Premier
and Foreign Minister Viscount Minoru Saito; Home, Baron
Tatsue Yamamoto; Finance Mr. Kerekiyo Takahashi; War
General Senjuro Hayashi; Navy, Admiral Keisuke Okada;
Justice, Mr. Matsukichi Koyama; Eduoation, Mr. Ichiro
Hotoyama; Agriculture and Dendrotogy, Mr. Fumito Goto;
Commeroe and Industry, Mr. Kumakichi Nakashima; Communi-
cations, Mr. Hiroshi Minami; Railways Mr. Chuzo Mitsuchi;
Overseas, Mr. Ryutaro Nagasi; Chief Cabinet Seoretary
Mr. Zonzaburo Shibata; Director of the Legislative Bureau,
Mr. Zenjiro Horikiri."
Two. "May twenty-sixth. It appears that the new
cabinet just formed by Viscount has not sasisfied the
publio. It has failed to include first olass men as at
first cxpeoted; then it is doubtful whetheror not the
relations between eaoh member are firmly cemented.
It is

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
-3- # 571 from Peiping.
It is feared that Viscount Saito will find it
diffioult to keep them in order since Baron Yamamoto the
Home Minister in view of the Faot that he is an elder of
the Minseito may be antagonistic to Mr. Takahashi the
Minister of Finance who is a Seiyukai spokesman. It is
further feared that the alliance of Mr. Hajoyama Minister
of Education and Mr. Minami Minister of Communications
may oppose that of Mr. Nagasi Overseas Minister and Mr. Goto
Minister of Agriculture and Dendrology.
The financial circle is disappointed at the
cabinet errangement. A view prevai!s that Visoount Baito
has failed to reach perfect understanding with the Seiyukai
and the Minseito and so his cabinet has been formed with
men of the second olass. The financial circle does not
consider that the new government is as efficient as
desired.
The military clique also does not consider the
new cabinet to be in a line of suoh coalition as it first
desired. The olique is however satisfied under the
impression that it is a non-party cabinet at a transition."
OIB JS
JOHNSON

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
FE (REK)
MAY 27 1932
PARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 3 1 1932
UNDERSECRETARY
THESECRETARY
MR.
May. 26, 1932.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFIDENTIA
AND THE JAPANESE AMBASSADOR, MR. KATSUJI DEBUOHI.
Copieata 2olegot Peiph Divisonde
FARCASTERN AFFAIRS
formation of a new Cabinet in Japan. I asked  im if
894.002/187
it is composed of the same meabers which I read in the
861.77
NEW YORK TIMES this morning, and he replied that it was
with one exception, namely, that General Araki, who had
been expected to resign as Minister of War, had remained.
He expressed his opinion to the effect that it was a
1
good thing that a man like Araki should remain in the
Cabinet where he could be watched and he asked my im-
pression about Admiral Saito. I told him that I had
hearo very warm commendation of Saito from Admiral Pratt
PTLTU
who had known him. The Ambassador said that Saito had
been here in America and was a man of very high character
and, in his opinion, would exercise a very liberal influ-
ence in the Cabinet; that he was at present acting as
Foreign Minister but that that post would probably be
filled by someone else later; that Baron Uohida, the
President of the South Manchurian Railway had been
suggested

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SECRETARY
へ
suggested but could not leave Manchuria; that Baron
Matsudaira, now Ambassador to London, was suggested
and if he could be persuaded to come it would be of the
greatest possible benefit, not only on account of his
character but also on account of his influence with the
Emperor.
The Ambassador then asked me whether I had seen
the runor in the press of ne otiations for the purchase
by Japan of the Chinese Eastern Railway said to be going
on in Paris. He ridiculed the rumor saying that on its
face it was impossible, and that the Bank mentioned in
the rumor was not the bank which formerly was interested
in it and apparently was not an important bank.
HLS.
S HLS:CBS

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
June e 1952.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
No.774
The Honorable
Nelson T. Johnson,
American Minister,
894.002/187
Peiping.
Sir:
There is enclosed for your personal and confidential
information and not for distribution to your staff. a copy
of a memorandum of a conversation which 1 had on May 26.
1932, with the Japanese Ambassador. concerning the formation
of a new Cabinet in Japan. You may in your discretion make
the copy of the memorandum available to the Counselors of
your Legation.
Very truly yours.
Enclosure:
Memorandum May 26, 1932.
894.002/187
Routine
S
JUN 2.1932.PM
.
D
FE: MMH: REK
FE
6/2/52
m.mH.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
Jume 6 1952.
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
No.336
Edwin L. Neville, Esquire,
American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
Sir:
There is enelosed for your personal and confidential
information and not for distribution to your staff, a copy
894.002/187
of a memorandum of a conversation which I had on lay 26.
1932. with the Japanese Ambassador, concerning the formation
of a new Cabinet in Japan.
Very truly yours,
B. L. STIMSON
Enclosure:
Memorandum May 26, 1932.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
JUN 2.1952.PM
894.002/187
Routine
S
FE: MMH: REK
FE
HSC
6/2/32
y.mH.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/188
SEE 204.00/407
FOR ...Tel..572....2pm
FROM .China
(...Jahnaon.......) DATED Me...271232
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Count Kodama's appointment as Governor General of Formosa to succeed
General Minami who has enterel the Cabinet as Minister of Communications.
Lieutenant General Kawashima has been appointed Commander -in-chief of Korea
to succeed General Hayashi who has joined Cabinet as head of the Department
of ducation. Gives resume of Cabilet situation and the outlook that ∞nfronts
the members.
ok
W

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 189
894.032/102
FORTel.#148 7pm
FROM .....Japan.
(....y.lle.....) DATED
June 3, 1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: text of Saito's speeches oefore the Diet.
- may be obtained from Japanese Embassy.
Washington.
1s
6

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 31 1932
WL 8 - 1932
THE UNDER SECRETARY
RBOBIVED
DIVISION OF
May 36, 1932
MAY 2 8 1932
cp7
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
894.002/190
May 36.
002
The Japanese Ambassador came in to tell me about
cip
the present Japanese Cabinet, which he says is, on the
whole, a refreshingly liberal cabinet.
He did not discuss Admiral Saito, as we all know
his record. He said that, on the whole, he is glad that
sadao
General Araki was remaining as Minister of War, since we
all knew the woret of Araki and since the faot that he
was willing to remain in the new Cabinet showed that he
might be more amenable. Admiral Keisuke Okada, Navy
Minister, is, he says, a man of long training; he was
Vice Minister of the Navy just before the London Confer-
ence and is not one of the "stand pat" Navy men. Baron
Tatsuo Yamamoto, Minister of Home Affairs, is a member
of the Minseito Party; his attitude of mind is legal and
FILED
more or less negative; he is a real authority on commerceco
and finance; he was for several years private seoretary
of Prince Saionji and, therefore, may be expeoted to have
absorbed many of Saionji's liberal ideas. Mr. Ryutaro
Nagai, Minister of Overseas Affairs, is an Oxford graduate,
was

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
5
a
was Parliamentary Vice Minister under Baron Shidehara;
he is not a strong party man, but is a member of the
Minseito Party. Mr. Debuchi feels that he will take
a thoroughly broad minded point of view in his new of-
fice.  Baron Kumakichi Nakajima, Minister of Commerce
and Industry, is the representative in the Cabinet of
the House of Peers. He is a thoroughly trained business
man.' Mr. Chuzo Mitsuchi, Minister of Railways, is a member
of the Seiyukai Party and somewhat of a theorist; he used
to be a professor; he has always had the reputation of
being one of the strongest members of the liberal wing
of the Seiyukai Party.  Mr. Matsukichi Koyama, Minister
of Justice, has been for many years public proseoutor.
According to Mr. Debuchi, he is interested only in legal
matters and in building up the system of justice.  Mr.
Iohiro Hatoyama, Minister of Iducation, is a member of the
OISF
Seiyukai Party, is a hangover from the old Cabinet. Mr.
aef
Fumio Goto, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, is not
a party man, but generally votes for the Minseito; he was
Seoretary General of Formosa and is very much liked by the
young men, among whom he is considered as a very enlightened
statesman

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
3
statesman. He is one of the youngest men in the Cabinet
and Mr. Debuchi believes one of the most progressive.
Mr. Hiroshi Minami, Minister of Communications, was also
at one time private secretary of Prince Saionji. Apparent-
Cecyraid
ly Mr. Debuchi does not know much about him except that
he is inclined to vote with the Seiyukai Party.] Mr.
Korekiyo Takahashi, Minister of Finance, is carried over
from the former Cabinet; he has several times been Minister
of Finance and Mr. Debuchi believes he is a very able man.
W. R
U WRO/AB

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
June 2 1982.
0.331
CONFIDENTIAL.
FOR STAFT USE ONLY.
Edwin L. Beville, Esquire,
American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
894.002/190
Bir:
There is enclosed, for your confidential in-
formation, a copy of a memorandum of a conversation
which the Under Secretary had on May 26th with the
Japanese Ambassador concerning the members of the
present Japanese Cabinet.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. Castle, jr.
1 enclosure:
Copy of memorandum
of May 26th.
va/as
M.m.H.
JUN
opy of
1952.
orig-
inal.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/191
SEE .....
...893.01..Manchuria/254
FOR
Tel.#650 10am
FROM.
Cnina
Johnson.......) DATED
June 14, 1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGEDEX
Count Uchida is to see Viscount Saito tomorrow
with reference to invitation to become Foreigu
Minister.
1

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
PLAIN
Peiping viaN.R.
Dated June 14, 1932
Rec'd 12:35 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington
660, June 14, 10 a.m.
Following from Reuter, Tokyo, June thirteenth:
"The Minseito intonds to submit to the Diet a proposal
for tho immediate recognition of Manchukuo.
Tho Seiyukai also favors the proposal and will sup ort
it.
Count Uchida is conferring with the War Minister General
Araki on policy in Manchuria and the possible recognition of
Manchukuo.
It is expected that Count Uchida will see Viscount Saito
today or tomorrow wth reforonce to the invitation to become
Foreign Minister.
The resolution of the Minsoito and the Beiyukai for the
recognition of Manchukuo will be submitted to the Diet
tomorrow. The Government is sympathetic to it but official
quarters intimate that definite action is unlikely until
tho contents of the Lytton Commission's roport have boon
rovealod in Septomber.
Count

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
MET
2-#650 from Peiping via N.R.,
June 14, 10 a.m.
Count Uchida is known. to favor recognition and there-
cf
fore aivocates/recognition hope that he will accopt the
foreien portfolio but inner circles intimate that this is
by no moans certain".
JOHNSON
HPD

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/192
SEE
893.01-Lanchuria/256
FOR
To1.#654 11am
FROM ...Chin
(. Johmson.) DATED .Jun 15.1932
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING: Count Uchida as Foreign Anister of Japan.
Count Uchida will probably be installed tomorrow,
following a meeting with the Premier.
10
192

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
o1b
PLAIN
Peiping via NR
Dated June 15, 1932
Reod 3:30 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington.
654, June 15, 11 a.m.
Following from Nippon Dempo, Tokyo, June 14th:
"Count Uchida, President of the South Manohuria
Railway Company and presumptive head of the Foreign Office
paid a call on Lieutenant General Araki, War Minister, at
his official residence at five forty o'clock yesterday
afternoon and after reporting to him relative to the situ-
ation in Manchuria and Mongolia exchanged views vith him.
Agreement was reached between them in the following line
it is understood: first, formal recognition will be given
as early as possible to Manchukuo after necessary arrange-
ments have been made as regards the settlement of relations
between the treaties in force and the new treaties to be
concluded and their relations with international treaties;
second, the proposed unification of the quadruple powers
and administration shall be more effeoted in quality then
in organization. The Commander of the Kuantung Army will
be the

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
-3- # 654 from Peiping.
be the head of the unified government and the South
Manohuria Railvay Company will become a purely comroroial
conocrn. Agreement vas also reached as regards other
fundamontal changes details of whioh will be further
disousscd today.
Count Uchida then told General Araki that he had
boen invitcd by Premier Saito to the Forcign portfolio
when the War Minister roplied that the War section was
in favor of the Count both for the Forcign portfolio and
the Prosidenoy of the South Manohuria Railmay Company
and that he vould leave the question to the disoretion of
the Count. This, it appears, prompted Count Uchida to
make up his mind to accopt the Foreign portfolio. Ec is
hovever unwilling to assume the duties before the gencral
moeting of shareholders of the Dairen Company schcduled
has boon gonc through
for the twentioth of this month/although it is prosumod
that he vill be installed as Foreign Minister tomorrow
following another meeting with the Premier."
JOHNSON
JS OIB

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
女
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUN 28 1932
21, 1932.
Junel
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Despatoh No. 635 of June 2, 1932,
from the Embassy at Tokyo deals with
the new Saito Cabinet.
The young army group, whioh it is
believed is working toward a military
diotatorship, desired a super-party
Cabinet while the politioal parties and
the Genro desired a Cabinet along
constitutional lines. A compromise was
reaohed by the inolusion in the Cabinet
of seven party men and four independents.
Most of the party men are not strong
men, however, and the Cabinet appears
to be in faot a super-party Cabinet
dominated by General Araki.
There are four men of fairly high
calibre in the Cabinet and eight of
medioore attainments. The strongest
is General Araki, who, as representative
of the young army group, may be in a
position to diotate the policies of the
Cabinet. The other three are the
Finance Minister, Takahashi, who was
Finance Minister in the preceding
Seiyukai Cabinet, the Home Minister,
Baron Yamamoto, an experienoed finanoier
who served as Finanoe Minister some time
ago in a Minseito Cabinet, and the

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
Prime Minister, Saito, who has no
outstanding eapabilities but is easy-
geing, inelined to compromise, and
a non-partisan political leader.
The Japanese were apparently dis-
appointed in the new Cabinet sinoe it
had been expeoted that it would be
composed of the leading statesmen
regardless of olass or party in order
to face the present grave issues.
These issues are:
(1) social and agrarian unrest
the basio cause of whioh is the tremen-
dous growth in power and influenoe of
suoh family groups as the Mitsuis, the
Iwasakis and the Sumitomos, with their
tendenoy to absorb the wealth of the
nation and to control, allegedly by
corrupt praotices, the various branohes
of the Government. The Army resenting
this, wishes to revert to feudal days
or the Meiji era, when the economio
polioies of the country were not con-
trolled by the meroantile olass. In
this they are backed by all the re-
actionary groups and the radical
element among the farmers. It seems
unlikely that any cabinet could cor-
reot the basic causes of this unrest.
(2) National finance. Japan is
unable to balance its budget and must
resort to loans. There is also a
strong movement toward currenoy infla-

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
tien, in erder to decrease the value
of the yen, relieve the credit situa-
tiem, and deorease the value of the
enormous debts with whioh the farmers,
industrialists, merohants and shipping
cempanies are burdened.
(3) Purification of politics.
The people have lost all oonfidence in
and respect for politioal parties
and reforms must be made.
(4) The report of the League
Commission. A conviotion is gaining
ground in Japan that the report of
the Commission will not meet Japan's
wishes and that it will be necessary to
decide whether or not definitely to defy
the League and the Powers whioh will
support the League.
(5) Relations with the Soviets
being strained, it may be necessary
to dooide upon the attitude to be
takon.
It is presumed that in these
last two questions, the opinion of the
army group, as represented by General
Araki, will to a large extent prevail.
In the Cabinet there may be dis-
union because of the different
politioal faotions represented therein.
LES:CLS

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
U
IUNITED STATES OF AMERICA
o, June 2, 1932.
No. 635.
Ci
Subjeot: The Saitg
OM.
F/LS
JUN1832
THE UNDER SECRETARY
CONFIDENTIAL.
JUN 28 1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VG
99
894.002/193
Copynt EA.lo
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 20 1932
S
Depertment of State
UN 29 1932
FILD
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that there is a large
measure of opinion among the Japenese that the newly
formed Saito Cabinet is merely a stop-gap Cabinet which
will neither meet the urgent needs of the country nor
have a long term of office.
Factors in the Formation of the Cabinet.
After the assassination of former Premier Inukai
by a group of young Army and Navy officers, it was
generally

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
generally reported that any Cabinet which would be formed
would have to be acceptable to the Army. The radical
younger group in the Army desires elimination of corrupt
party politios, lessening or abolition of the influence
in government of the great financial interests, reform
of economic policies in favor of the masses, and a stronger
policy toward China, regardless of the opinion of the world.
This group, which it is believed is working toward a military
dictatorship- a revival of the Shogunate- insisted upon a
super-party Cabinet, to ti e the nation over the present
financial and political crisis. At the same time, the
political parties, supported by Prince Saionji, who is a
staunch upholder of constitutional government, insisted
that a Cabinet be formed somewhat along constitutional
lines, with members from the leading olitical groups.
The public was interested principally in the formation of
a Cabinet vwhich would make some rositive move toward
alleviation of the economic distress, which would quiet
the social unrest, and which would make an attempt to
eliminate political corruption. These various factors
resulted in the formation of the Saito Cabinet, a com-
promise Cabinet more or less acceptable to all parties
but completely fulfilling the wishes of none.
Composition of the Cabinet.
The Premier and Foreign Minister pro tem, Admiral
Viscount Makoto Saito, is a commoner by birth, a naval
offioer by profession and a statesman and administrator
by choice. He became known to the world through his very
able administration of Korea after the passive rebellion
there

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
there in l919. He has no outstanding capabilities, but
he is affaule, easy-going and inclined to compromise. Ho
is noted for his integrity and is described as being "unadle
to do anything badly". He is affiliated with no political
party, but for years has been one of the non-partisan
political leaders of the country . He was ac eptable to
the Army group because of his lack of affiliation with
the political parties and because of his supposed amenability
to the demands of the Army group.
The Finance Minister, Mr. Korekiyo Takahashi, was taken
over into the present Cabinet from the previous Inukai Cabinet,
largely in order that he might carry out the financial
policies which he had inaugurated and which it was thought
advisable to continue. He is a man of c nsiderable experience
both in finance and in politics, having served for years in
governmental banks and having been Finance Minister twice.
Although a Seiyukai man( President ad interim once), he is
distinctly not a party man, is independent and fearless in
thought, and is inolined to place the nation's interests
above the party's interests. Hence he was acceptable to
those endeavoring to form a national or super-party Cabinet.
The Home Minister, Baron Tatsuo Yamamoto, is a publio
man and financier of long experience. He served for years
in governmental banks, rising to the highest positions, and
served one term as Finance Minister and twice as Minister of
Agriculture and Forestry. He was originally a member of the
Seiyukai but on a split in that party he became a member of
the Minseito, where he has been acting as adviser. He is not
a strong party man and is said to have more friends in the
seiyukai

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Seiyukai than in the Minseito. He retired from active
publio life some ten years ago and was reluotant to join
the Saito Cabinet. He was persuaded, however, on the
ground that a super-party Cabinet could not be formed
without his help and that it was imperative to form a
Cabinet as soon as possible to avoid the possi ble collapse
of parliamentary government in Japan.
The Minister of War, Lieutenant-General Sadao Araki,
is a man who has come into the public eye in the last few
months. He is the enigma, and threatens to be the storm-
center, of the present Cabinet. He is of samurai blood
and an Army officer by profession. After working up to
the higher grades of his service, he became Minister of
War in the Inukai Cabinet. He is a member of the Koku-
honsha, a s mewhat radical and at the same time intensely
nationalistic party which includes the younger Army group.
While Minister of ar in the Inukai Cabinet and campaignig
for the Kokuhonsha, he made certain remarkably frank speeches
regarding Japan's intentions in Manchuria. When Premier
Inukai was assassinated by a group of young Army officers,
General Araki, in accordance with Japanese custom, accepted
responsibility and resigned. Later, when the Saito Cabinet
was being formed, he reconsidered his resignation and re-
mained in the new Cabinet. This action was unumual in view
of the Japanese conception of proper conduct in such cases,
and he is being severely criticized throughout the country.
In reply to the criticism, he intimates that he has certain
duties which he must perform, despite all criticimm, and
compares himselr with the forty-seven ronin, who led degraded
11ves

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
' lives and braved adverse criticism in order eventually
to attain thetr purpose. He does not erplain the end to
whioh he is working. He is probably the strongest man in
the Cabinet, and as the representative of the young Army
group, may be in a position to dictate the policies of the
Cabinet.
These four( Saito, Takahashi, Yamamoto and Araki) are
the outstaning men of the Cabinet. The others are lieu-
tenants of the leaders or representatives of parties or
departments.
The Minister of the Navy, Admiral Keisuke Okada, is a
man of considerable administrative ability but of no special
characteristics. He served as Minister of the Navy once
before, in 1927, in the Tanaka Cabinet.
The Minister of Commerce and Industry, Baron Kumakichi
Nakajima, is a peer by birth. He has had some experience
in business, having veen an official in various banks and
steamship, electric, trust and insurance companies. He is
a member of the Iouse of Peers and of the Koseikai( an
influential group in the House of Peers), whom he represents
in the Cabinet.
The Minister of Comnunications, Mr. Hiroshi Minami, is
a member of the Seiyukai and has held various offices, in-
cluding that of Governer General of Formosa, under Seiyukai
Cabinets. He is a strong party man and is one of the re-
presentatives of the Seiyukai in the Saito Cabinet.
The Minister of Railways, Mr. Chuzo Mitsuchi, is a
member of the Seiyukai, but he is not a strong party man
and is rather a lieutenant of Mr. Takahashi, the Finance
Minister, than a representative of the Seiyukai. He has long
been a member of the Lower House and has twice before held
Cabinet

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Cabinet positions, as Minister of Education in l927 and
as Finance Minister in 1929.
The Minister of Agrioulture and Forestry, Mr. Fumio
Goto, is a lieutenant of Baron Yamamoto, the Home Minister,
who insisted, as a condition to his own participation in
the Cabinet, upon the a pointment of Goto as a Minister or
Vice Minister. e is a member of the Minseito but is not
a strong party man. He has been in government service since
1908, in various subordinate positions.
The Minister of Education, Mr. Ichiro Hatoyama, was
carried over from the Inukai Cabinet, where he held the
same portfolio. He is a member of the Seiyukai, a strong
party man and a lieutenant of Dr. Suzuki, the President of
the Seiyukai. He has been a politician since his graduation
from law school and has been repeatedly elected to the Lower
House.
The Minister of Justice, Mr. Matsukichi Koyama, is a
prominent jurist who has served as procurator and judge
in various courts in Japan since l894. Before appointment
to a Cabinet position he was Procurator General and Dean
of Hosei University( a law school). He has no party af-
filiations.
The Overseas Minister, r. Ryutaro Nagai, is a member
of the Minseito, has been elected to the Lower House several
times on that tioket, has served as Parliamentary Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs and at the time of his appoint-
ment to the Cabinet was Chief Secretary of the Minseito.
He is a strong party man, and is regarded in some quarters
as likely to be a factor of importance in political life
in Japan.
The

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
The Saito Cabinet is thus composed of four members
of the Seiyukai, three of the Minseito and one of the
Peers, with four independents. Most of the party men,
however, are not strong party men, and the Cabinet would
appear to be in fact a super-party Cabinet, dominated
by General Araki.
Reaction to the Hew Cabinet.
The general reaction among the Japanese to the new Cabinet
is one of disappointient. It was uxpected that, with the
many grave issues facing the nation, a very strong Cabinet
composed of the leading statesmen of the nation, regardless
of class or party affiliations, would be formed. Instead,
a Cabinet containing four men of fairly high calibre and
eight men of mediocre attainments has been presented to the
nation. The newspaper ditorials do not indicate any con-
siderable enthusiasm over the new Cabinet. Financial circles
are disappointed, as they kmow from past experience that
Takahashi will be disinclined to take strong positive measures
for relief of the financial situation. The Seiyukai, which
controls the Lower House at present, does not give any indica-
tion of wholehearted support of the Cabinet and may make
trouble in the Diet. The Army circles are non-committal
but threaten to make trouble if the Cabinet proves to be
amenable to the dictates of the politioal parties rather
than to those of the Army.
Problems before the Saito Cabinet.
The Saito Cabinet faces the largest group of urgent
problems faced by any Cabinet in recent years. Among the
domestio problems the most important is the social and
agrarian

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
agrarian unrest. The people of Japan have been dis-
illusioned in regard to parliamentary government, there
has been a steady decline of discipline in the Army, Navy
and the schools, and the economic depression and increasing
unemployment have intensified the discontent. The reactionary
or extreme nationalist movement has a curious tendency to
combine, in thought at least, with the extreme left or radical
movement, and to favor the abolition of large private fortunes
with their tendency to corrupt the government, and to favor
a wider distribution of wealth anong the masses. The basic
cause of the unrest is the tremendous growth in power and
influence of such family groups as the Mitsuis, the Iwasakis
and the Sumitomos, with their tendency to absorb the wealth
of the nation and to control, allegedly by corrupt practices,
the various branches of the Government. The Army resents the
growth of this money power and wishes to revert to the feudal
days, or even to those of the Meiji era, when the economic
policies of the country were not controlled by the mercantile
olass. In this movement they have the backing of all re-
actionary groups and of the radical element among the farmers,
who are hard pressed at present by the eopnomic depression.
It seems unlikely that any Cabinet which could be formed
would be able to do much to oorrect the basic causes of the
unrest, especially as the depression is not confined to Japan
but is world-wide.
Another important domestic problem is that of national
finance., Japan, like many other countries, is unable to
balance its budget and must resort to loans. There is also
a strong movement toward currency inflation, in order to
depreciate the yen, relieve the credit situation, and decrease
the value of the enormous debts with which the farmers,
industrialists,

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
industrialists, merchants and shipping companies are
burdened.
A third important domestic problem, which is to
some extent included in the first, consists of the
purification of politics. The people of the country have
lost all confidence in and respect for political parties
and reforms must be instituted if the parliamentary system
is to regain its lost prestige.
In foreign affairs, the Cabinet must meet, within
a short time, the report of the Comnission of the eague
on the Manchurian question. A conviction is gaining ground
in Japan that the report of the Comaission will not meet
Japan's wishes and that it will be necessary to decide
whether or not definitely to defy the League and the Powers
which will support the League. Relations with the Soviets
are also somewhat strained and it may be necessary to
decide upon the attitude which will be taken in regard to
this question. It is presumed that in both of these questions,
the opinion of the Army group, as represented by General
Araki, will to a large extent prevail.
Within the Cabinet itself there may be disunion, as the
Premier will have to reconcile the views of Ministers of
the different political factions. The Minseito has promised
its support to the Cabinet, but the Seiyukai, which controls
a clear majority in the Lewer House, has not indicated any
desire to give its whole-hearted support to the new Cabinet.
Within a day of the inauguration of the Cabinet, dissension
between the members representing the political parties over
the distribution of the appointments of vice-ministers had
arisen.
Taoo

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
Face to face with these numerous and pressing
problems, some of which seem incapable of any immediate
solution, it appears unlikely that the Saito Cabinet will
be able to maintain itself.
Respectfully yours,
Eduin P huilh
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Embassy's File No. 800.Japan
ERD/SR

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00-P.R./54
FOR 634
FROM .......
 Japan
(..ovill....) DATED ..)uno..1..1932
NAME
1-1187
89
.002/ 194
REGARDING: the formation of a new national cabinet in Japan.
dew

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/195
894.021/29
Tel.#187, 5pm
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
..) DATED ..July..6..1932.
FROM
xxxx
NAME
REGARDING: Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs. Count Yasuya Uchida
was formally installed as - this morning. After installation he stated
that Japan's foreign policy would remain unchanged.
dow

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated July 6, 1932
Rec'd 7:42 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
187, Ju1y 6, 5 p.m.
Count Yasuya Uchida was formally installed as
Minister of Foreign Affairs this morning. After in-
stallation he gave an oral interview to Japanese news-
paper men in which he stated that Japan's foreign policy
will 1emain unchanged and that whil- Japan will claim
what is due, Japan dislikes to act unnecessarily against
the interests of other powers; that misunderstanding of
other powers will be dispelled in due course but that
"any blunder on Japan's part may lead to grave conse-
quences".
Shiratori confirms the substance of the fore-
going as acourate. Repeated Peiping.
GREW
RR WSB

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
SEE .....793.94/5423
FOR L-255..to.Lagation.
FROM ....Nanking
(....Paak........) DATED ..May.21,1932.
TO
NAME
1-1187
196
REGARDING:
Dr. Lo desired attitude and views of the
American Government in connection with
the present cabinet change in Japan.
hs

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/197
FOR Tel..#.206..11.am
SEE893.01 Manchur1a/379
FROM ... Japan
(....Gren
...) DATED ..Auguat..9..1932..
1-1187
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Lieutenant General Honjo has been appointed
a member of the Supreme Military Council.
hs

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
6
409
REP
GRAY
Tokyo
Datod August 9, 1932
Rec'd 4:40 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
206, August 9, 11 a. m.
It is today officially announced that General
Nobuyoshi Muto has been appointed to the triple position
described in my telegram 203, July 29, 5 p. m. His
diplomatic appointment is as Ambassador Extraordinary
and Flenipotentiary with orders to proceed to Manchuria
and he has not (repeat not) been accredited to
Manchukuo. However, the YOMIU RI SHIMBUN reports that
the Vice Foreign Minister upon instructions orally
G8
stated that the appointment of an ambassador in Manchuria
is a basic preparatory step to recognition in accordance
with Japan's previously decided policy. The Military
Attache reports that General Muto is believed to
represent the aggressive military element.
Lieutenant General Honjo has been relieved of his
command and appointed a member of the Supreme Military
Council.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/198
SEE____893.01.Manchuria/378
FOR ....Tel...#..926..9..pm
FROM ....China.
(...Johnson......) DATED .August..a.l932.
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
6
General Honjo returns to Tokyo as Supreme
Military Councillor.
hs

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
RBP
PLAIN
Peiping via N.R.
Dated August 9, 1932
Roo'd Ti16 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
926, August 9, 9 p. m.
The following from Reuter, Tokyo, August eighth:
"General Muto was formally installoddby the Emperor
this afternoon as supreme head of Japanese affairs in
Manchuria. General Muto goes to Manchuria as Commander-in-
Chief of Japanese Army, Governor of Kwantung leased territory,
and special envoy to 'Manchukuo'.
Qhipara
General Hon o, who is now Commander-in-Chief of Japanese
Army in Manchuria, returns to Tokyo as Supreme Military
Councillor."
JOHNSON

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
199
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00-P.R./56
FOR 81
894.002/199
FROM
Japan
() DATED .51932.
xxx
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: appointment of Count Yasuya Uchida as Japanese Foreign
Minister.
dew

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.89)
●8●
IL. POLITICA ATICN I THE GOINTRINS
(a)      Y 
On July 6 ount Yasuya Uehida was relieved of his
duties as resident of the south anchuria Hailmay and
asmmed the post of oreign  inister', relieving remier
Viscount akoto alto of the duties of the latter offiee.
The appeintment of couut Johide had been expected rer seveval
weaks and no special comment was made on it by the Japemese
press. It is assumed, however, that the sholee was a very
agreeable one for the rmy and other elements interested in
Japanese expansion in anohuria.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00-P.R./57
FOR
f111
894.002/
FROM
Japan
(r) DATED Spt.1.1932
xnex
NAME
1-1197
200
REGARDiNG: a plot to assassinate Premier Viscount Makoto Saito, Home
Minister Baron Tatsuo Yamamoto, and Finance Minister Korekiyo Take-
hash1 in Japan.
dew

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.76)
(0)  P.
On Angest 1s the poliee axmoumeed thet they hed wmeeresst
a plet to assassiaate Premier Visoeust Makete Saite, Name
1101st0

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94-Comm1ss1on/496
Tel.+1230, 5pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/201
China
JohnBon.....) DATED
Nov. 3, 1932
FROM
NAME
1127
201
REGARDING: Japanese Cahinet meeting at which Count Uchida gave the details
of Japan's obseriations on the Lytton report.
dew

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
PLAIN
Peiping via N.R.
Dated November 3, 1932
Rec'd 9:10 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
1230, November 3, 5 p.m.
The Pollowing, from Reuter, Shanghai, November 2.
the
Cabinet today Count Uchida, the Forei m Minister,
gave details of Japan's observations on
the Lytton report.
The inistor explained that the ohsorvations consisted
of five ar  cles with an introd ict ion and a cenclusion,
and that they would be published simultanecusly at Tokyo
and
Jeneva, when they were submitted to the League of
Nations.
The observations specially emphasized the point that
international control of Manchuria is
acceptable neither
to Japan nor to Manchukuo. They also emphasized that the
withdrawal of troops, if carried out, would give rise to
unrest
disturbance which Japan is most desirous of
removing."
JOHNSON
RR
WWC

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Deoember 6, 1932.
Tokyo's despaton No. 202 of
November 18, 1932, reports rumors v.1th
regard to an impending Cabinet change.
Observers ugree that the life of the
Saito Jabinet is precurious, its
heterogeneous nature bein its
fundamental weakness. Ihe Seiyukai is
said to be waitin for a chance to
sever all conneotions. Phe Minseito
has cooperated witn the present
Cabinet except for its denunciatlon of
the budget plan. The imneuiute cause
for rumors of a possible Cabinet chunge
appears to be the budget, witn which
noone is satisfied, although neither
major party has any definite counter
plan. Should the budget be rejected
by the Diet, the Government could
hardly remain in power. There ure some
who believe that General Ugaki as
Premier might cheok the military unu
reduce their expenditures, but his
ability to do this is doubtful. The
Ugaki rumor is the most interesting
subjeot of politicul speculation at
present,

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Deoember 6, 1932.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 202 of
November 18, 1932, reports rumors with
regard to an impending Cabinet change.
Observers ugree that the life of the
Saito Cabinet is preoarious, its
heterogeneous nature being its
fundamental weakness. The Seiyukai is
said to be waiting for a chance to
sever all conneotions. Phe Minseito
has oooperated with the present
Cabinet exoept for its denunciation of
the budget plan. The imneuiate oause
for rumors of a possible Cabinet ohange
appears to be the budget, with whioh
noone is satisfied, although neither
májor party has any definite counter
plan. Should the budget be rejeoted
by the Diet, the Government sould
hardly remain in power. There are some
who believe that General Ugaki as
Premier might oheok the military and
reduce their expenditures, but his
ability to do this is doubtful. The
Ugaki rumor is the most interesting
subjeot of politioal speoulation at
present,

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
present, and in this connection are men-
tioned a recent trip of leading members
of the largest group in the House of Peers
to Chosen to interview General Ugaki, a
conversation between the Prime Minister
and Ugaki at Osaka, and the presence of
Ugaki at Tokyo.
3
LÉS:EJL

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 202.
Tokyo, November 18, 1932.
Subject:
Rumors Regarding an Impending Cabinet Change.
COPIES SENT TO
F/HS
M.1.1).
22
HECO
S
5
NO
Dívision of
lopy & Delegat,
Wd
DEP
0
9
PEC 5- 1932
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sea Dirarm.
894.002/202
Department of State
农
994.02
m
894.
DEC 8 7 17
The Honorable
FILED
The ecre ary of tate,
Washin soh.
Sir:
During the past fe months t ere have been heard
various runors about an ipundling cebi let change. These
rumors, though vague, are wo thy of note as experience
has shown t.at in Japanese politics there is usually
sone fire behind a persistent s.oke. In t is ∞nnection,
193
reference is invited to the Eubassy's despatch No. 635
of June 2, 1932.
Observers seen to agree that the S ito Cabinet
leads a precarious life. Set up as an emergency cabinet
to

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
to silenee the demands of the military for a superpower
government and to satisfy the popular outory against
partisan incompetence, it has in its heterogeneous
nature a fundamental weakness. The only things that
have hitherto prevented a split are a sense of re-
spo.sibility in a tie of national crisis and fear
of popular resentment at any a te pt to play politics.
3
The Seiyukai in spite of its large majority in
the Lower House and its undoubted ability to overthrow
the cabinet, has refrained from obstructionist activities
only sccause of fear that a c. nge might be even more
disadvantageous. However, it is obviously not friendly
to the Govermment and is said to be waiting for a chance
to sever all c mections . It will use ut ost caution
in choosing the tine uni method of deserting, as a
Iistake may tirow power into the Minseito hands. In
other vords, it will render li allegiance until it
feels t at the raison d'être of the Saito Cabinet has
vanished an the co ntry is repared to accept parlia-
mentary partisanship again.
he minseito is tha kful for what representation
it retains in the present cabinet in vi of its weak
position in the Diet. It has denounced the Govern-
ent's budget lan, but has othe rwise cooperated with
the present cabinet.
The imlediate cause for these rumors of cabinet
change seems to be the buaget, now nearly completed.
No one is satisfied with th is budget, which by its
unprecedented

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
-3 -
unprecedented size hes seriously al rmed the economists
and industrial leaders. At the sme time neither the
Seiyukai( f which the present Finence Minister is a
m eiber) nor the minseito nave any definite coun erplan.
へ
No plan can ichore the real cause of budget expansion,
which is th demands of the nilitary, nor is any one
willing at present to op ose these denands. his budget
constitutes the clief da.-ger to the cabilet. Should it,
by chance, be rejected at the Die Session, the Govern-
ment could h: rdly re..ain in o..er.
Out of this cisuation l s come a f eling in sole
auarters that fire mus be fou ht with fire and that
ini.!
Gen rel Ugaki, now Go vernor Gen ral of Cho sen, ight
LC
te atle, if pin ed we ier, to hold the li ary
in check and reduce mili ary ex endit res. he genural,
until the clurinm utbreak,  s erhaps the most
powerful Figure in the may. However, durine his absence
from active service the rivel Ar ki f etion he ained
control and has re udia ed gtki's o icies of military
retrenchmlent. Ugaki is unleuotedly an able man of un-
usually brosd view, sus it is uestionasle whether under
present cmditions he could regain is for er influence
over the Amy. Even the e could, there is great
popular support for the anchurian program which cannot
be divorced from large military expenlitures. Hence it
is doubtful whether he could do uc. to curb the Army
in the iirection of finance for the time being.
In any event the Ugaki rumor remains the most
interesting subject of political speculation. Observers
V
point

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.91)
-4 -
point out as significant the r cent trip of some
leading members of the Kenkyukai, the largest group
in tho House of Peers, to Chosen to interview the General
on recunasly a o itical r. hey moted that
Pre i   ito ha  t itn Usuli ln saka few duys
a o  the r h  noe vres.eir at res grous ore
intense s hee t e Ge. ral urrived in okyo osuensibly on
co loni l bus less.
Rospectfuliy y urs,
Joseoh e. ret.
Copy to Peiping.
800.2
WTT:r

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
94.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./60
FOR
#218
20
Japan
Grew
Dec.9, 1932
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Cabinet change.
Rumors of an impending - auring November.
Further conment.
1s

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.78)
0
Rumers esmeesming am ispending Cabinet change contimsed
daring Levember. Speenlatiom ineronsed with the visit to
a dee o. 1 af vebr6. 1.
* Babasag's despateh Be. £or of Bovember Lå, ßß.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.90)
Japem of Gonerel Ugaks, Governer Gonsrel of Cheoen, whese
mame is aften mentiened in sonneetion vith a change ef
Premiers. Datil the Manohmrian outbreak the Goneral
was prebmbly the mest poverful figure in the Arag. As
be slways edvoested a peliey of sllitary retrenehment
sany people oulc like t see his in the ractershi
where he wight held in cheek those sillt:rists whc wish
to expand the iray. However, it is doubtrul whether
General Ugaki would be powerful en ugh to control thr demands
à the sray ot the present time. sinee hi! bemee in Kores
the Arakd fsetion snich be siway: us oseu has altalne
sosition of domination.
Dissatisfeetion with the rosont Government if due to
1ts budget for 193x-4, now pr et1ct:y completed. Its
unprecedented size hos s-rlsusly clareed the eoonomists nd
Lndustrial lecders of J:pen. However, the Eeiyukei, anich
is the majerity party in the Diet and could therefore bring
abont the downfali  the present Cubinet, has no Iternative
to offer. Purtheraore, uo plen ean ignore the real csuse
of the budget ex wasin, which is the d sands of the wilitary,
nor is cayome willing at resomt to oppose these demands.
The Seiyakai ms never beer satisfied with  situation
where it is the majority party but bas to miere the pever in
the Cabimet with the Mimseito nd it would Like to take
advaatage or the presamt dissstisfaetiou to overthrow the
Severmmens. The smas lies Ia the uneertsinty that the
Seiyumai would be ealled upon to forr & party Goverament if
the Saite Gabimet sheald fall. They would mever be satisfied
w1

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.89)
kind of fasetst Govermment. There wemld be & possibility
of ang of these plans being pit late effeet if the saste
Governsemt should be overtareme. Meeh would depend upen
the sttitude of the Comre, Coumt Makine, and the military
and it is reported that they fstor c ntimuanee of the
present rogime wati! the budget h.s beer lissed by the Diet
and pore rogre's has bre" dt  the aeti iement of the
ttnchurianroblom.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.94)
-22 -
Minister Baron Tatsuo Yamamoto, nd Finenee
Minister Korekiyo lakahashi. The arrested plotters
were members of the Jimmukai, a reactionary organiza-
tion supposed to have been conneeted with the incident
of May 15 when : remier Inukai was murdered.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.88)
011
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 1, 1933.
BD:
BI：
MD:
OKH.
Tokyo's despatch No. 254 of
January 13, 1933, reports the
resignation of Okada, Minister of
Navy, and the appointment of Osumi
to the post. The resignation was
due to ill health and the change
was merely routine. This brief
despatch should be read in full.
NES:KC

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of the Navy are not dictated by the Minister of the
Navy alone, the latter being regarded in a measure as
the representative of the Navy in the civilian government.
Naval policies are therefore not affected to any great
extent by a change of minister. The position is of
course not without great authority, but consent to such
appointment, as in uny other matter of importance affecting
the Navy, must first be obtained from the leaders of the
Navy.
From one point of viev. it is unfortunate that the change
occurred just when it did. Admiral Okada would have reached
the age of retirement on the 20th of this month. Had
he remained in office beyond that time a new precedent
would have been set in the interpretation of the ordinance
requiring the post of Minister of the Navy to be occupied
by an admiral. Thus far the ordinance has been interpreted
as meaning an admiral(or general for the War Department)
in acfive service, although legally no distinction is
made. The resignation of Admiral Okada is, therefore,
regarded as helping to establish the precedent that the
Navy portfolio shall be held only by an admiral on the
active list. As such it is regarded as a victory for the
military, making their independent position even stronger.
It is notable that the Premier, himself an admiral, was most
active in the effort to persuade Admiral Okada to remain
in office before his illness took a serious turn, in-
dicating that Premier Saito has liberal views in regard to
the Navy's relationship to the civil government.
Ther

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
1/
There is herewith transmitted a report on the
form "confidential biographic data" in regard to Admiral
Osumi. The latter is no stranger in polities, having
been Minister of Navy in the Inukai Cabinet and previously
Vice Minister of Navy. At the time of the controversy over
the London Naval Treaty, it was he who wa: credited vith
bringing the opoosing factions into agreement. He is a
popular and able officer, possessing qualities of states-
manship unusual cmong men of the military caste.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
In quintuplicate to the Department
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
800.2
WTT:r
174

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/205
SEE
894.00/464
FOR ...Despatch.#.266.
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED January.26...1933.
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Resignation of the Saito Cabinet expected
shortly after the present session of the
Diet. The Seiyukai party then hopes to
be asked to form the new Cabinet.
hs

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.87)
Deepetoh So. res.
Luto Jamry :0, 198.
Subjoets Poiitieal Situt!on in J:pan.
Buxxaryi From various r ort: wh ch nave reucned
the Lmbaeey it appeurs th: t under a agreemont
between the Lsito C. binet nd the Leiyukai( th.
xajority perty) the seiyukzi wi!! not foree the
resigmation of the Crbinet during the present
sesslom of the Diet but the Crbinet wiil resign
soun  ftor th" cloae f the Liet session. The
Seiyukai ho es to bo ske to forn the ler C biret
but the o u try do s not pe to f vor  raturn to
purty covor ment us yet. Another super-verty
C binet is oeible.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokye, Januury 6, 1983.
xo. £6e.
Subjeet: Pelltil tatim in La
The Ronorsble
The Seeretary of Etate,
aashingtom.
-188
When the present S ito super-party Cabinet was formed
in May, 193:, 1t was gener lly understood that it was an
omergeney eubinet and that it would relingnish its wuthority
when the ezergencles whioh e»lled it into being eeased to
exist. at mow appeurs that the time is vnrocehing for
the Saito Csbinet to relinquish the reins of offiee and to
give pleee to a eabinet aore in ke ping with the prineigles
of

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.89)
一一
of parliamentary government. It 1e not b lieved, hom-
ever, thet the change w1il take "lice until after the
close of the present Dlet session.
The princlpol opoonent f the E ito Cabinet is
naturally the Seiyukai, tre o itical party hich contr ls
un ubaolute m: Jority in the Loer H use f thes Diet and
whleh hopes to be c tled i n to f rm c binet in sue-
ces1on t the r It C binet. I sroun f the ynger
of the Belyukat Is in f vor of o  i the  bi et in the
Diet and forcing thee.
The  binet euld, bowever, in
such chee dlasolve the let no cal gonerel sieetlon,
whicn the sld r esbers of the Seiy kal de nst wish,  en
elect1 n might r a il in the  rty  sins ite jority in
the er House.
 hle  o 
si For rtor theeukr t over. It fs known
that Premier Viscount Feit  nd r. Fuzukt, the resident
of the Seiyukai, mag tiste urin, Lecember r gardine the
ttitude of tre  elyuke! urinr th comin s coln of the
Diet, nd it is nov r wrted thut the decislon recchet wes
t, the effect th ! the Seiy kat w! I not foree the fssue
during the Diet sesr1on(un ess s ething unforeseen
with the underatendinr that the Saito C:binet w!?l r sign
 soon thereafter s
the emerg ncy conditi n: permit. The
Beiyukai hopes that Prinee Saionji, the sole surviving Genro,
will then recommend to the Throne th forrat!on f & Seiyukal
Cbinet.
The Minseito, the seoond le rgest party in the Lower
House, will support the Salto Cabinet, on the grounds that
the present Cebinet was formed for special purposes, such
as rellof of the furmins elass and restoratiom of sconomie
confidenee

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.94)
eonfidemee, and thet it should remsim in pover watil it
bas secomplished its task, after whioh it ean dissolve the
Diet, eall & gemeral eleetion, end turn over the reins of
the Governmemt to a eabinet frmed by the mejority party.
The real reason behind its support of the .:ito Government,
however, probably is that it pres n mssibility t present
of obtaining o atrol of the sover aent nu refors to work
with : Buper-p rty c: binet rather than to De the oorosition
to a purely selyukas C binet.
The Kokumin Domei, Mr. Adechi's ner p rty, is the durk
horse in the political situation. It is penly ooposed to
the Baito Cabinet nd : par-ntly sisner t force  dissolution
of the Diet in tho hope of btoining " creater number of sects
then it now cntrols(: in cese of a gonera: eleotim. At
present it is unable to exercise ung over unless it cam j in
forees with the dissatisfied group in the Selyukat. The
Kokumin Domei is s retimer calied the "Fascist Party' of
Japan but it has it le in com on with Faseiom oxcept a
uniform which s mewhat r-sembles that of Mussolini's perty.
Mr. Adachi's pletform cnsists of the p omntion of the
natimal spirit and of international justiee: the adontion
of a state eeonomy which wi 1 redistriouto wealth, gusrantee
a livins to the masses und avoid their exploitotin by the
espitalists; and the purifieation of polities and the estab-
lishmemt of a stromg governeent by the abelition of the
abinet and the subetitutien therefor of a state counell.
Se advoeates the readjustment of treaties binding Jupem
in the Par Bast and the establishmemt of a Monroe Doetrine
fer Asia. Mis platform is skilfully designed to appeal to

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.82)
the Japanese pepular taste, but whether or not the Japanese
people will pleee aay eonfidenee in a mam of Br. dachits
repatetiom remains to be seem. It wii: be remerbarsd that
1t was opmronly rumorei t the time that fr. adechi was
bribed by certuin rimanoi.: lnter-sts to resim fr e the
ankatsuki C binet in Lacerber, sii, tou: esusln. its dom-
fall nd bringing in a ceiyikni C binet, whioh rrmoved Jrpan
from tie guld stindcrd c  d imrinae rofits for the
excr.ange specuiutors.
It ia rumorec ttat the . it, C binet Itseif Pocls its
woakaoss, luaxing the whviuhorrted si art of . ojurity f
the bers of the oer Houne, no! lnslgn
fer th noe f the it eo , i  tat
….
hp suu  bit, tr  the  t,
oome intor. lnxithe noubinet 
heve l  yottur o ot ra. s a ted befre,
laoe  lonj1 1 r orted  be in fuvor of Feiykai  binet.
but to ule  v by n n id coe n the
pulitlosl varties nd wuld r b bly o ose the inste.intion
or a cubinet of politici ns at a time of sront natlonal stress.
A Fesoist Crbinet under Bron Air numa is now out of the
question, as the vogue of Yaxelen hrs dealined rapicly in
Japam in recent months. A group of bureauer ts under Barcn
Y. Kubota, a Privy Coumalllor, 1: renorted to be mancoeuvring
for the formetlon of a new non-portissn eabinet upon the
resigmatim of the B"ito Cebinet.
hetever esbimet eomes into power, hovever, there is
no reasem to believe that the poliey of Japem tousrd the
Leagme of BeSieme and the Manehurian cuestion will be sub-
stamtially altered, as the smolderins revolt agaimet the
e001

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.83)
-8-
control of the Fereign Ofriee b the Bar Ofriee hes net
yet takem any o merete form.
Fespootru:ly y urs,
Joseph C. urek.
80).
EADOr
copytgtioning
Berne
In qusdru pliecte t. the Lopartuent
2

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/207
006.00 P. R./am
Deepeteh / sne.
SEE
FOR
78100
FROM
-..) DATED
TO
NAME
-1127
0
REGARDING:
Rumor that an agreement had been reached
between the Saito Cabinet and the Seiyukai
providing that the fomer would resign upon
the termination of the Diet session has since
become more widespread.
hs

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.95)
()
The rmes, whieh was reported in last menta's peliti-
eal report, that an agreement had been reeebed betmtem the
Saite Cabimet and the Seiyukai providing that the fummer
would rkm upon the tormination of toe Diet sessian has
sinee become more widespread. However, many sell-informed
people believe that Premier Ssito is becowing stronger
*very day and may do something whieh wil! surprise the
politieal prognostiestors. One dsnger to nim is the it-
titude of the younger elements of tne £eiyukai no may
deeide to do something curing the session whish wo 1d
foree the Premier's resignstion. The Kokumin Domel, Mr.
Adaehi's new party, woul: like to force a dissolution in
the hope of gaining more sests in the Diet in a general
eleetion. They nor have only " nembers of the Diot and
they beliave that this does not rspresent their stongth
in the cowatry. The Winseito wil! support t e Saito Govern-
mont and the wiser heads in the Seiyukai party do not want
a gomeral eleetion as they fear that their party wruld lose
some of its seats, possibly its majority. One hurlle which
the Seiyukai party sees ahead and which it wil? hare to
evereome if it wishes to take over the government is the
attitude of the Genro. It is not at sl! certsin that he
would advise the Em eror to sall upon the Seiyakai to form
the Govermment in the ease of the resignation of Premier
Saite, although it is understoed that ne does faver an
early return to strist party government. It is believed

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.84)
1T9
-4-
the Japanese papular taste, but whether or not the Japanese
people will pluee sny confidence in a man of Wr. Adaehi's
reputation remalns to be sess. It wii: be remerbared that
1t was comronly rumored at the time that xr. Adechi was
bribed by certain fimunoini interests to resim from the
Bnkatsuki Cnbinet 1n Lecember, iSai, thus ezusins 1ts dom-
fall und bringing in a Seiyukmi C. binet, which rrmoved
Jrpan
from tne gold stindcrd c  do immenee rofits for the
exc.ange specuiutors.
It is rumored thst the . it, C binet Itreif focls ite
wen,xin thehrtd t jorlty
thebeherHoe
th
hubit,ttthe
urthebinet
uve 1 yot
orot r ted befre
lao lon1 s  ort b  fvorelykoi  binet.
butldthe
iileurtl  ldo blye the intn
of cbinet of itici nst  time of srt national stress.
 Fosoiot C binet under Boron Air  ls no ut  the
uesticn, a the v gue of Fusclan hes declined r aly in
Japan in recont montns.  group of buroauer to ander Baren
Y. Rubots, a Privy Couna!llor, 1 rmorted t) be mer couvring
for the formatlon of s now on-portirn: cabinet upon the
resigmatiom of the ito Cbinet.
whatever c»binet eomes into vower, however, there is
no Peasom to believe that the polisy of Japen toward the
League or Mitions and the kanehurian cuestion will be sub-
stantially altered, as the smolderins revolt agcinst the
control

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 8 -
20
If the recent, press reports are true, to
Minister to Sweden and that Tand, until recently
Chief of the Asiatic Bureau of the Foreign
Office and reportedly of the ilk of Shiratori,
has been assigned to General Muto's Embassy at
Changohun, it would seem that the militarily
inolined group in the Foreign Office has
suffered reverses to the extent, at least, of
having two of its strongest men sent abroad
where they seemingly can cause less trouble
than they can in the Foreign Office.
PE:LES:CLS

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WP
must be closely paraphrased
before being communicated to Dated May 16, 1933
anyone. (B)
Rec'd 4:53 a. m.
26
Q.
Secretary of State,
Washington
FAR EASRS
MAT1933
894.002
99, May 16, 4 p. m.
Depwtmnt of State
Arita has resigned as Vice Ministerr Foreign
Affairs owing, it is rumored, to a disagreement with the
more Chauvinistic elements in the Foreign Office.
002/209
Mamone
Shigemitsu, former minister to China has been appointed
vice minister. (END GRAY)
CONFIDENTIAL. This change may indicate a stronger
China policy on the part of the Foreign Office.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
JS
MAY 2 9 1933
FILED

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
SEE.OOP.R./5
FOR ..Dapaa...a.
FROM
(
) DATED1
TO
NAME
1-1197
210
REGARDING:
Speculation concerning the probable life of
the Cabinet continues as it has during many
months and there is little to add to what has
been said in previous monthly reports.
hs

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
-27-
XIX. XNEEENAL POLITICAL AFWAIRS.
Speculatien ceneerming the probable life of the
Gabinet eentinees as it has during memy memthe and these is
little to add to what has been said in previeus monthly re-
ports. The enly eertain fast is that it has not yet resigmete
894.
The press has reported that Mr. Takahashi, the Finamee
Mnister, would certainly resim after the publieation of
the report on the ineident of May 15 of last year but it
is not believed that this can be taken as a foregeme eem-
elusion. The press has also reported that the Premier
was determined to carry on even though Mr. Takahashi should
resigm.
The Premier was subjected to some critieim early in the
month beeause of the manner in which he handled the resigma-
tion of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Matsukichi Koyamm,
which was submitted because of the discovery of a eommmist
in his department. The resignetion was handed to the Premier
an April s. We transmitted it to the Throme on the nert
day, ascompanying it with a recommendation that the Minister
be retained. The Emperor then requested the Minister to
eaneel his resignation and the latter eomplied. On the eth
the Premier informed the Cabinet of his part in the insidemt
and seme eritieism was expressed. Hovever, these the may
heve wished to take advantage of the affair to foree the
Premierts resigmatien were disappeinted. Beth the Army
snd the Seiyekai Party annowmeed their suppert of the Pre-
108.
the mesrratmty regarding the probable life of the

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/211
SEE ....0O .P../
FOR ..Despsteb.4.419.
FROM....
(..
) DATED 1
TO
NAME
1-1197
√11
REGARDING:
On May 22, Finance Minister Takahashi
announced that he did not intend to
resign from his post, in spite of
continuous predictions that he would,
and the Cabinet has therefore takon
on a new lease on life.
hs

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.93)
- 18 -
III.INTENNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) M. Takehaaki decides to remain.
On May :r Finance Minister Tskahashi unnounoed that
he did not intend to resim from his post, in spite of com-
tinmous pradietions that he ould, nd the C. binet hes there-
fore taken  ne Lese on life. For several onths it has
beem comron political gossi: in Tokyo thet Mr. T kahashi
would resio after the publication f the findings r gerding
the incident of ay ls, 13. 2. The r port, which he never
denied until this anth, wus that his he lth wez fiiling
and he wished to get out of office s soon as possible fter
the mejor work of the resent Cubinet was completed. As he
1s the leuding f nancier in whom the e untry h s c nfidence
and therefore one f the inportant sambers of the Government,
it was believed inevitable that the entire C: binet ould h ve
to resign with him. In fact, Mr. Takahashi's party, the
Seiyukai, which is the majority arty in the Diet, virtually
save motice that it wo ld cease to support the Government if
he were not in the Cabinet.
Mr. Takahashi undoubtedly hos pour bealth and would
probably like to retire for personal resoms. Nowever,
events following his pronouncement of Kay £& indieate that
there has been something more behind it all Immediately
after his statement was made it appeared that the Seiyakai
were very mmeh disappointed in his decision. A party
meeting was held at whiah it was decided that support
would be withdrawm from the Cabinet st the earliest possible
momemt. Apparently the public, in diseussing the relations
betimem Ar. Takabashi and the Seiyakai, had eoafused the
amr th the probable affeet. The iytnt, Lastend
2

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/212
894.00/485
Despatch #497
SEE
FOR
Japan
Neville
Anmst 17,1955
FROM
-...) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
Saito Government and the Political Parties.
REGARDING:
Diseusses the -,and gives reasons for the continuance
of the present regime, also possible developments in
the near future.
esp

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.93)
Despatch Bo.407.
Dates Amgast 17, 19s3.
Bubjeet: The Baito Governmant and the Politieal
Partios.
Buomary!
The Sa1to Cabinet hes survived for over
a year in spite of fre uent rumors f resig-
netiom of chonge. The Seiyukai, the nujority
party, has been hopin, for  return to party
government, snd to its own  ccession to power.
Bowever, ublic feeline is still strnugely
critleal of  rty government, und intolerant
of the abuses of salf-sesxing politieians.
▲ projeet is on foot to iuclude the presi-
dents of the two major parties in the Cubinet
us Ministers without portfolio. This is for
the purpose of strengthenin? the Cabinet
before the new budget, with ite muormoms
milltary uxpen itures and inevitable taxes, is
drawm up for submis 1 om t the Diet.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.90)
Tetaye, Angust 17, 100s.
o. 497.
Subjeet: The Beito Government and the Politieal
Parties.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Weshingtom.
Bir:
The Embessy has not, for some time, report-
ed on the Japsnese Cabinet and the nolitiosl situs-
tion. This bxs ptrtly bes, due to the Lack of any
changes of consequence in recent months, und pirtly
besause of the impesgibility of sskins semse out of
the c mstant shiftings and taraings, the mints of
resigmstioms and atsruptiom, the dosands for "strong
cevermment" and the evasive atlitude ef Japanese
pelitieel Looders.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.91)
adnc e the establlstment of the present Beite
Miaistry felleving the assessinstiem of Premter
Imukai commenly referred to as the "tay Istn in-
cident", there have beem frequemt rumers of resig-
natiom or change. This ministry, composed of
various claments cramm from the Seiyakal, the
inseito und private life, and heeded by  aged
retired ad irel, wus set us at that oritioel time
to fill the need for : coslition or natiomal govere-
ent, bove the knavery of pertisan polities. Thas
fur it has held together, in spite of obrioms frio-
tion between its diverse alements, olthugh several
times ite resignation b: a ben confidently predicted,
notably  fter th p te of the budget bill in March
whom many believed th t its task had been finisbed.
Fortanetely, from he st nepoint of Cubinet
longevity, close co per tim ons the Ministers of
State is mot essential, except in fereim =ffairs,
because the Mimisters *re individually and direetly
respomsible aly to the Bmperor for the eomauet of
affairs uader their on jurisdictiom.
The Seiyakai, with its overwhelmins parlia-
memtery majority, has long been hmuagerins for the
power and the speils to which is mermal times it
would be aatitled. But publie prejudice against
the abmse of partissm governmemt in eritieal tises
like the presemt, has kept the Selyukes at the heel
of the Gabtmet, afreid to foree an issse. The
Selymbas mas fer mere then & year lant srudging

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.84)
一 8 .
suppere to the Saite Mislstry, hepins that dis-
setiasection with this regime wemle develep and
that it, baving lived down ite pust evil repe-
tation, woul: be permitted to take over the rrins.
But ublie "eelln. is still strondly geinst 
straigh: r'y resime. Tnree aonths ugo the seiyukai
pleadeo that the merkenay symbolizeo by the try loth
incldunt wus axt ann that the time hud come for a
reversion to urlirsentury r otices. however, the
sy l5th tri. is now toinx on unuer xide oublicit, in
*hich the dofandants have elocuencly innioted var-
lixmentary vover munt witn the ey pethy of the publie,
have r csl. i the wnpooulity  rty sovervsnt
and made it in  the Stiyuka th the tto 1s
unpropiticus rr 1 tore iloiyukai
7rmnt。
Inaidantally the inseito, vith four rupru-
sentatives in the C: binet, 1: iuciinnt. to Lot well
enough luue, re lizinr tht  ruturn to party zovern
sont woul wu the o of what proentatin it no
.a8.
It soui eur irin those fute that in ulte
of sert in friction, nu in spite of jouicusy on the
part of the Selyukai, there ls no reason for . chi nge
or reorg-nizution in the Cobinet. Bowever, there »re
other fecturs is the situatiom which mast be considered.
Both &dmiral Viseount Ssito und his most smportant
001100

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.93)
一
Gelleagse, Mr. Takakeshi Minister of Finanee, are
old men who would gladly retarn to the retiremems
from which they were dragged in the exergeney fol-
lowing the ay 15th affair. tr. T.kahashi wms ruxored
to be on the point of resigning during the past sprins,
but was dissuaded, r b bly uy the allitary. Bith-
out ur. Tkabashi and his prestige as state fimumcier,
the Saito Ministry vould be severely weekened. This,
the silitary would revent, as they belleve the nation
reguires a strong and non-pertisan cabinet in these
adventurous times. They are particularly unxious to
keep Mr. Takahashi uno the C binet intuct at the presemt
time when the neu bedget cstimnte:, car yins enormous
demands for new ar ments, re being frered. They realize
that evem in the strong petriotic arcer of the natiom at
present, & fire hend sill be needed t foree the military
demands and the increused taxation dowm the nation's throat.
In erder to land al! ro sible support to the Cabinet,
a sobeme bas beem propuse to draft Dr. Summki, Présidemt
of the Seiyukai, and Barom Takatsuki, Presidemt of the
Kinseito, into the Cabinet zs Ministers withomt port-
folle. Some obeervers deseribe this proposal as "gland
grefting" on an elderly orgonim. by this it is hoped
to umite all politieal power into eme all-star agere-
gation strans mough to earry through aay poliey.
At the time the presemt Crbinet was formed, an effort
was meée, in the iaterest of politieal unity, to lnclude
the presidente of the twe grest parties in the Cabimst.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.87)
Beth refused to join, but promised & measure of
suppert on behalr r their parties. ▲ further ffort
was made three months ago t induee Dr. Suzuki to roo
lase ir. Iukuhnsni us :inister or Fin nce. This he
flatly refused t. do, thereby t rcing -r. I mabashi
to carry n t thresent,  describedbove.
Dr. Busuki ws of course betwae. the horns of 
dilemeb. Some of his folle er r. toe submergence
of their perty'e idestity furter !ntr the r sent Govern-
ent, wdveating retner severasce f relations. Othefs
belioved in e peretion, n in controilins the govern-
ont from within. Doth factions  re " course con-
iderin mly thir arty uy nt g. A l1 in the
party my throton if Lr. Suzuki ccopts this 1 test
invitatlo Thus far he hes appenre to be ouvosed to
the ide, but doud sbservurs ar diot his varly &ocer
tanee. souurulng to his owm stutement no could not
enter the suvernaent unie.s an " understanding om
politicai po-lcies" is reaczed. This is the phrase now
beind satively dizoussnd in the psess, which mens,
baldly, bargainina for udvant ge.
Maron Sukstsaki of the Minsaito bos been reti-
cemt abomt the meheme, but beerrers do uot untieipste
wuch ebjestiom an mis part to & propesal which offers
nothins but advamtage to his party.
I sheald adu that this sebeme hes not yet been
fermally peoposed, bat is undoubtedly under eunrideretion
 Visesmt saite. I belleve it will, if proposed, be
ascepted ty the twe party leadere, as thay well realise
that publie opéatem as preoamt will met tolerate any
1

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.91)
一 ●
eabdbstien of pertisee iatrensigessee.
Some fear has been expressed La certaim quasters
that these moves tomard wmifiestiom of pever are tending
toward the creation of & dietatorship. Xr. Thkahashi
himself is reported a: statime in & press interviewe
*Politicians aast understand the "ravalling situation
in Jopan. If effsirs continue to move in th ir present
course, it is to be creatly feured that Japan will be
dominnted by a dictatorship. I fear this greatly".
His implieatiom was that unless the politieal parties
refore their wys and ragai- the confidence of the
people, the latter will turn in diagust to a foudal
dictatorahip. Although adsit ing this danger, the
Osaka dAInIchI slutes : " he :re comfident that the
dey of perty covernment- orthodox purli mentary govern-
aont in which the o inin r the jority 1s lso re-
spected- sili come before many ye rs have pe sed. In
order to hastan thst duy the politieal parties mst
first of all regain their lost prestige by making the
neoded puforms."
Many of the resetiomary evemts of the est twe
years in Japem are diroctly at:ributable to publia
resentment ot the corruption of the politiciams ond
the lees of ccafidenee in parliamentary governmemt. The
semins of the Japanese peeple seome to be lacking in
the direetiom of popular government along party lines,
but this of course may be due te the comparative now-
ness of demeeratie Ldeas ia Japen. Bevever, it may well
develep that recent erents and the present hostile
feeling of the peeple may serve as a waraing to the

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/213
SEE..
894.00 P.R./68
FOR Despatoh 490.
FROM ......Japan
(..Grom.
) DATED .Auguat.19..
TO
NAME
1-1137
713
REGARDING:
The Japanese govermment offices are open only
during the mornings and many of the higher
officials spend most of their time at the
sumer resorts.
There has been a revival of the reports that
the leaders of the Seiyukai and Minseito par-
ties would soon join the Cabinet as ministers
without portrolio.
hs

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
-17 -
III. IITERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) D a
The politieal situation has beem comparative-
ly quiet since the advent of summer we:ther. The
government offices re open only during the mormings
and many of the higher officials spenu most of their
time t the su er re orts. However, there has been
 revival of the r ports that the le ders of the Sei-
yukai and Minseito rties would soon join the C binet
as ministers without ortf lie. The Japanese press
reports thet Mr. Buzuki, the leader of the Seiyukai,
is now more favorably disposed toward supporting Pre-
mier Saito's government, in spite of the fact that
his party recently pi  sed a motion of criticism of the
Cabinet. There certainly se ms to be less eutnusiasm
for party government now than there was sever:1 onths
ago. This may be due to the apperent disruption in the
ranks of the Beiyukai, the majority party, or to the
effest of the public trials of the perpetr tors of the
terroristic acts of last year, which are discussed else-
where in this report. However, the real power which
keeps the Baito Government in office is believeo to be
the Army. The military group which control Jupan
at the present time stand a better chance of getting
what they want from the present Government than from
any other one which would likely come into office.
The budget for the fiseal year beginning April 1, 1934
1s mew in the process of preparation so it is not be-
lieved likely that the Cabinet will be changed in the
near fature mless there are unforeseem developments
(6)

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPIES SENT TO
REP
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
FROM
CORRECTED COPY
GRAY
F/HS
Divisign of
Tokyo
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
ted September 14, 1933
SEP 14 1933
Recid 12:10 a, m.
Secretary of Stat
Washington.
894.002/214
138, September 14, 11 a. m.
Count Uchida resimod os  inister for Foreign Affairs
this morning ostensibly on grounds of ill health. Hirota
lately Ambassador in Moscow is prominently mentioned as
his successor, but his appointment is not confirmed.
GREW
JS
SEP 18 1933
FILED

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WP
GRAY
KPBIVD
Tokyo
FROM
Dated September 14, 1933
DIPNIH HE
'd 18:10 a. m.
Division of
F/H8
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State
SEP 14 1033
Washington.
894.002
138, September 1411 a. m.
Count UemnoA
894.002/214
uehida rosigned as Minister for Foreign Affairs
this morning ostensibly on grounds of All-health. Hirota
lately Ambassador in Moscow is prominently mentioned as
his uccesaor, but his apro' t ent is not confirmed.
GREW
JS
SEP 18 19?
FILED

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D
GRAY
JS
FROM
TOKIO
F/H8
Datod Septombor 14, 1933
Roc'd 6:00
Division of
ENN
Socrotary of Stato,
FAR EASTERN AFPARES
Washington, D.C.
SEP 14 1933
894.002/215
Dapartonent ef Stasto
139, Soptembor 14, 5 pom
My 138, September 14, 11 .m., appointmont
of Koki Hinota as Foreign Ministor is confirmed.
GREW
JS
SEP 18 1933
FILED

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ES SENT TO
M.I.D
REP
PLAIN
FROM
Peiping via N. R.
F/HS
Dated September 14, 1933
Reg'd 12:50 p. m
Division of
FAR EASTGAN AFFAIRS
Becrotary of State,
SEP 14 1933
Washington.
894.002/216
594.002
748, September 14,
Reuter from Nanking today:
"Chinese officials here are reticent regarding appoint-
ment of new Foreign Minister in Japan preferring to maintain
watchful attitude rather than speculate on further possibil-
ities. Chinese public is frankly not impressed by the change
being inclined to believe official version that Count Uchida
resigned because of indifferent health. It is believed
Hirota appointment will not in itself cause any chance in
Japanese policy towards China. However, it is recalled
that Hirota as Ambassador in Mosoow settled fishery dispute
between his own country and Russia. He is believed well
E
versed in Russian affairs and his appointment may influgnce
81933
Japanese-Soviet relations especially with reference to
Chinese Eastern Railway question. Developments in this
direction will be closely followed here."
JOHNSON
WSB
11

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.96)
STATE
 Y
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
fore being eommunioated
to anyone. (B)
Dated September 15, 1933
Rec'd 7:52 a. m.
F/G
Division of
Bocretary of StatFAM EASTEAFFAIRS
SEP 15 1933
Washington.
894.002/217
Departomant of State
141, Septembe 15, 3 p. m.
1215
My 138, September 14, 11 a. m., and 139, September 14,
15 p. m.
In the opinion of well-infor ed observers Uchida's resig
nation was due not to any dissatisraction on his part with
the general policy of the present govornment, but to reasons
of health and unwillingnoss longer to bear the burdens of
office. It seems probable that there may be a general re-
arrangement of the Cabinet in the relatively near future,
and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs probably is only
anticipating his retirement by a few months.
Hirota is a diplomat of wide experienoe. He is not
notably a strong man, but has a reputation for conciliatory
BF
conduct. In his youth he was identified with a "patriotic"
society sponsored by Toyama. Although he has not been active
commented on the matter. It seems probable that his appoint-
ment is due to there being nothing against him. His service
in

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
2-141, From Toky0, Sept.15, 3 pom.
in Russia gives him first hand familiarity with the ques-
tions at issue with the Soviets. As he is not an alarmist
it may be assumed that he is regarded as a safe man in the
way of a stop-gap, or he may be on trial to see if he will
be acceptable in any rearrangement of the Cabinet that may
later take place.
GREW
FW
WWC

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
REP
FROM
GRAY
RECEIVED
Tokyo
SEP 1: 1933
Dated Septeriber 18, 1933
COMEUN
DIVISION
Recid 5:32 a. n.
Divisic of
FAR EASTERAFFAIRS
Secretary of State
SEP 15 1933
Washington.
894.002/218
894.002
π
144, September
18, 4 p. m.
CONFIDENTIAL.
At my initial reception today by the new Minister fo
Foreign Affairs he said that his principal preoccupation
while in office would be thc develojn lent of better rela-
tions with the United States and that this in fact was
the primary reason for his having accepted the appointment
which had come to him as a complete surprise.
GREW
WSB
FILLA

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.86)
2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Nu. Sem
enfi e H.3+4.
SK
SEP 20 1933
NOTED

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT
Diviton of
DIVERION OF
DeR
SEP 80 1933
SEP211933
NOTED
CHANGE UY RINISTERS FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
SP 20 1933
Mr. Koki Hirote has been appointed Japanese Minister
0BF
0
for Foreign Affairs, succeeding Count Uchida.
002
Mr. Hirota, who is fifty-five years of age, entered
894.002/219
the Foreign Offioe in 1906 after graduation from the
894.
College of Law of the Tokyo Imperial University. After
serving at various posts abroad, inoluding an assignment
as First Seoretary at Washington from 1918 to 1921, in
1923 he was appointed Chief of the Bureau of European and
American Affairs in the Foreign Ofrice. While ocoupying
this post he was to a large degree responsible for the
successful conclusion of the negotiations which reestab-
lished relations between Japan and Russia in May l924. In
November 1926, he was appointed Minister to The Hague. In
SEP
stated that Mr. Hirota "is looked upon as one of the most
1933
able of the younger men in the Foreign Service"; and, disous-
sing the interest of Japan in the Duteh East Indies, added,
"the transfer of an officer of the calibre of Mr. Hirota to
The Hague may well be construed as indicating the intention
of the Japanese Government to pursue its econemie pelieies as
vigorously as possible"; and, commenting en Mr. Hirota's
sentiments
<

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
 sentiments towards the United States, said, "Mr. Hirete,
with whem members of my staff are in pleasant persomal and
official relations, has always shown himself to be friemdly
disposed to the United States and to Amerieans".
In 1930 Mr. Hirota was transferred to Mosoow as Ambas-
sador. At this time the relations between Japan and Russia
were not satisfactory. Trouble had arisen over the question
of fishing concessions claimed by Japanese in Russian waters,
Russians were accused of instigating seditious and communistio
movements in Japan, while Japanese were being arrested in
Russia for engaging in illegal exchange transactions. The
American Ambassador at Tokyo, Mr. Cameron Forbes, when report-
ing to the Department the appointment of Mr. Hirota to Moseow,
said: "It would seem that the Japanese Government has taken
pains to find a capable man for this difficult post in the
hope that a solution or the various questions pending between
the two countries may be found," and that "Mr. Hirota is a
man of excellent reputation and wide experience."
A
Mr. Hirota was relieved of his post at Mosoow in 19s8
and has sinee been "en disponibilitó". He was tenth in
seniority on the list of Ambassadors, being junior to both
Tらuい
Mr. Matsudaira, Ambassador at London, and Mr. Debuthi, Ambas-
sador at Washington, both of whom have exceeded the usual
term at these posts. Mr. Hirota is also junior to three other
ambassadors who are also on "en disponibilité" and whe would
thus have been available to succeed Count Uchida.
r. Grow

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
Mr. Grew has not commented as yet on the recent change
of Foreign Ministers. A despatoh from the Tokyo eorrespemdent
of the NEW YORk TIEs, who is unusually well informed, states
that Mr. Hirota is extremely nationalistic.
2
The possibility that Mr. Hirota was appointed because he
is more moderate and liberal than either Messrs. Matsudaira
or Debuehi may be dismissed. The possibility that he is more
nationalistic than Ambassador Obata, who is now in Japan with-
out a post, is unlikely, as the vigorous part taken by Mr.
Obata, when Chargé d'Affaires at Peiping during the so-called
Twenty-one Demands, will be remembered. Mr. Hirota has
hitherto had the reputation of being a liberal and progressive
diplomat, and it is therefore very difficult to believe that
he has been selected from a point far down the list of Ambas-
sadors because of being an extreme nationalist.
It is impossible to speak dogmatically on the reasons
for Mr. Hirota's selection, as virtually nothing has been
heard of him during the past year. In view of all the attend-
ant sireumstanees, it is believed that Mr. Hirota stands some-
where between the two opposite groups of Japanese diplomats,
and it may be surmised that his appointment was based in part
on his proven ability and in part on his exoeptional knowledge
of conditions in Russia, rather than on political sentiments
and beliefs. If the latter were the case there were available
more suitable candidates. At the same time, conditions new
existing in Japan make it certain that he enjoys the confidenee
 of the military party.
ao

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.89)
The Embassy at Tokyo has not indicated the existense
of any diffieulty which Count Uohida was having with the
military so serious as to cause his resigmation, and it is
therefore impossible to say whether Count Uohida was foreed
out of offioe by the military or was obliged to resign on
account of ill health, the latter being the ostensible reason
for his resignation.
SKH
Nite ceft
attnb.).
FE:EHD/ZMK
FE

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
New York Times
SEPTEMBER 14,1933.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 14 1933
Uchida Quits as Japan's Foreign Minister;
Hirota, Successor, Even More Nationalistic
By The Associated Press.
the circumstances the only effective
TOKYO, Thursday, Sept. 14.—
government for Japan is one that
Count Yasuya Uchida resigned to-
the army trusts. It may be ex
day as Joreign Minister of Japan.
pected the new government will by
Kok( Hirota, former Ambassador to
a reversion to the type with whic
Moscow, was named his successor.
Japan is familiar-a super-part
Failing health was given as the of-
Cabinet headed by a non-part
fteial explanation of Count Uchida's
statesman commanding the conf
reeignation, but reactionary pres-
dence of the Emperor and the in
Sure m favor of Mr. Hirota's suc-
nermost circle of imperial advisers
cession was considered an impor-
Broadly speaking, the change will
tant factor in the change.
mean a further step away from
Mr. Hirota is known as a stanch
party government toward one re-
Nationalist, closely connected with
sembling the German pre-war
reactionary patriotic organizations
system, which the Chancellor, re
in the army clique. His accession
sponsible to the Emperor, governed
to the Foreign Ministry is inter-
without dependence on parties.
preted as presaging a Japanese for-
The functions of the Diet will be
ign policy even more nationalistic
interpreted strictly in the terms of
nd uncompromising than at pras-
the Constitution, which gives Par-
nt.
liament power to veto financial
Speciar Cable to Tne New Yosk Trmes.
measures. Time will show whether
TOKYO, Sept. 18.-A complete
the lower house elected by manhood
hange of Cabinet is probable in
suffrage can be permanently so re-
apan before the end of the year.
stricted. Meantime, the weakness
The work of Japanese Cabinet
of the recent govèrnment is the
Ministers is arduous and the pillars
fallure of manhpod suffrage to
of the present Ministry are septua-
cleanse the parties, and the break-
genarians who would gladly avoid
down of democracy elsewhere con-
he labors involved in another ses-
vinced many Japanese the country
ion of the Diet.
was not ready for party govern-
It is universaily admitted that in ment.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.95)
SEP141933
From the Baltimore Sun
PORKIGN MINSTER
Former Eneoy Te U. S.
Quits Cobinet Post
OF JAPAN RESIGNS
Count Yasuya Uchida Is Suc-
ceeded By Koki Hirota, Ex-
Envoy To Russia
FAILING HEALTH CITED
Reactionary Pressure In Favor
Of New Offcer Considered Fac-
tor In Change
Lay the Assoslated Press]
Tokug Sopt. 14 (Thuraday)—Count
dign Mimister of Japan. Koki Hirota.
fermer Ambessedor to Moscow, was
named his successor.
Failing heelth was given as the off-
cial escplanation of Count Uchidi's res-
igmation, and although the Minister
was known to be tired and worried.
neesestating a brief vecation early in
September, resctionary pressure in
faver of Hirota's succsssion was au-
theritatively considered an important
factor in the ahange.
COUNT YASUYA UCHIDA
Cleeely Allled With Army Cllque
Hireta is known as a stanch Na-
tiomalist, closely connected with reac-
the Soyiet would attack Japan at pres-
tiomary patriotic organizations in the
ent, it was impossible to foresee Rus-
army ellque.
sda's action in event defects appeared
His meeeeston to the Foreign Ministry
in Japan's army.
Uchida At One Time
Served As Envoy To U. S.
War Head Refere To U. S. Pleet
Count Yasuya Uchida, farmer Am-
bessador to the United States and a
Sermer Asting Presmier of Japen, is
veteran statesman who has held
Atlentie Sest in Pacific waters, among
score of important pests in the Japa-
factors making messsary imediate
nese Government.
He is a former Minister to Palp-
ing. former Ambassador to Austria
The mewepaper Asshi, reporting the
Hungary and Rusdda, and. one-time
president of the important South
Manchuria Railway.
He has been for many years a
stanah advesete of naval parity and
fled by her isolation resulting from
seceasion from the Lesgue of Mations.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.95)
Failing health was siven as the off-
cial explanation of Count Uchidi's res-
Lgmation, and although the Miniater
faver of Mirete's suecsssion was au-
theritatively eonaldered an important
factor in the ehange.
COUNT YABUYA UCHIDA
Cloeely Allled With Army Clique
Hireta is known as a stanch Na-
the Soyiet would attack Japan at pres-
tlonalist, closely connected with reec-
ent, it was impossible to foresee Rus-
tionary patriotic organizations in the
sla's action in event defects appeared
army alique.
His aocession to the Foreign Ministry
in Japan's army.
La eepepted as prepaging a Japanese
Uchida At One Time
and umodmpromising than at present.
Served As Envoy To U. S.
War Head Refere Te U. S. Fleet
Gleneral Sadee Araki, Minister of
Count Yasuya Uchida, former Am-
War, today sted Amerlcan sympathy
bassador to the United States and a
and ald to Chine, combined with the
fermer Asting Premier of Japan, is a
costtatued presenee of the American
veteran statesman who has held a
Atlantic fleet in Pacific waters, among
score of important posts in the Jape-
factors making necessary immediate
nese Government.
strengthening of Japan's national de-
He is a former Minister to Peip-
fense.
ing. former Ambassador to Austria
The newspaper Asahi, reporting the
Hungary and Russda, and. one-time
War Minister's speech before a meet-
president of the important South
ing of the military section of the
Manchuria Railway.
Supresme War Council, quoted him as
He has been for many years a
declering Japen was confronted with
stanch advocate of naval parity and
a grave and imminent crisis intensi-
recently mid that Japan would stick
fled by her isolation resulting from
to an "iron principle" of armament
secession from the League of Nations.
equality in the naval conference
The meeting was incident to General
Araki's campaign for enlarged appro-
priations for the army and nevy in
the budget for 1834-35, reported to bear
approval of ether Japanese Ministers.
Wheat And Cotten Lean Cited
General Araki asserted that China's
feeling against the Japanese was of
a permanent nature despite occa-
slonal signs of better feeling, and.
moreover, that China's anti-Japan atti-
tude was nourished by indications of
American sympathy toward China.
The War Minister cited as evidence
this the o,000,000 wheet and eot
on lean from the United States and
American plans to asstat in the de-
wme telling what America
so wikene her mavy ls defindtely
to Japan's after 1995."
sh it was unlikely

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
Washington Herald
103
NEW OFFICIAL
WILL ASSUME
DUTIES TODAY
Ill Health Reason for Retire-
ment; Served as Envoy to
U. S.; Was Ex-Premier
TOKYO. Sept. 14 (U.P.).—Ya
suya Uchida, foreign minister of
Japan, resigned today.
Ill health was given as the
reason.
Koki Hirota, until recently Jap-
anese Ambassador to the Soviet
Government, was to be installed
as foreign minister at 1:30 p. m.
today. Emperor Hirohito formally
will install Hirota in a ceremony
at Hayama palace.
RESIGNS SUDDENLY
Uchida's resignation came sud-
denly, after he had guided Japan's
foreign policy during one of the
most difficult periods in the long
history of the empire.
He became foreign minister in
the "super party" cabinet formed
by Premier Makoto Saito, and
was in charge of Japan's foreign
policy when Japan withdrew from
the League of Nations after that
body's criticism of the Manchu-
rian incident.
The resigned foreign minister
had served as minister to China,
ambassador to Austria, and am-
bassador to the United States. He
was forelgn minister in the cabi-
net of Viscount Sajonji. He
served the Hara government as
foreign minister in 1918 and acted
temporarily as premier in 1921.
Japan 'Buffer State'
Set Up in North China
PRIPING. China. Sept.
18
(U.P.).—The Chinese are willing
Great Wall, between

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
as foreign minister at 1:30 p. m.
todey. Bmperer Mirohite formally
wil install mirets in a ceremony
at Rarame palaós.
EEESGNS SUBDENLY
Uchida's resignatión came sud-
forelgn policy durins one of the
most difficult periods in the lons
history of the esmptre.
He became forslsth minister in
the "super party" cabinet formed
by Premier Makoto Matto, and
was in charge of Japan's forelgn
policy when Japan withdrew from
the League of Natlons after that
body's criticiam of the Manchu-
rian incident.
The resigned foreign minister
had served as minister to China,
ambassador to Austria, and am-
bassador to the United States. He
was foreign minister in the cabi-
net of Viscount Saionji. He
served the Hara government as
foreign minister in 1918 and acted
temporarily as premier in 1921.
Japan 'Buffer State'
Set Up in North China
PEIPING, China, Sept. 13
(U.P.).—The Chinese are willing
to admit today that Japan has
established a "buffer state" in
North China itself, below the
Great Wall, between Peiping and
their puppet nation of Man-
choukuo.
Despite protests to the League
of Nations at Japan's encroach-
ment onto the continent of Asia.
the Chine.- have been forced to
recognize that the Tokyo govern-
ment's seizures of China territory
include a slice of China proper
about the size of the State of
New Jersey.
CHINESE FLAG FLIES
The Chinese Kuomintang flag
still flies over North China. but
it is admitted the Chinese of-
ficials are controlled by the Jap-
anese in that area above Tientsin
and Peiping. just as they are in
Manchoukuo.
This development is the latest
move in Japan's bold seizure of
Manchuria, Jehol Province and
this sphere of influence below the
Wall, which began with the Man-
churian campaign just two years
ago this month.
The Chinese police patrolling
this buffer area are former sol-
diers of Gen. Li Chi-Chun, a
Chinese chieftain who aided the
Japanese and Manchoukuo forces
in the advance which brought
the Japanese to within striking dis-
tance of Peiping. General Li
last April raised the old 5-bar
flag in rebellion against the Nan-
king government. Now, however.
he is recognised as a Chinese of-
ficial who receives his money
from China-but his orders from
Manchoukuo.
NATIONAL DISGRACE'
Under the terms of the truce
last May, the Chinese are not
permitted to maintain even de-
fense forces in this "buffer
The truce was deseribed in the
Chen Pao, influential Chinese
newspaper in Peiping. as "a na-
tlonal humiliation and disgrace."
It added:
T h e Tiemtsin-Petping dis-
the imcident of September 18,

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
701.9411/768
DEMO
SEE
FOR
State Department
Under Secretary's Office, Phillips
Bept.-28,-1933.
FROM
) DATED
220
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Conversation with the Japanese Ambassador Sept. 28, 1933.
Discussed Hirota, the new Foreign Minister.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 221
SEE.
894.00/488
FOR .Tel.#.156.noon.
FROM .....Japan
(.Gran
.) DATED ..Qctobar.11,..1933.
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Reports of serious disagreement in the
Japanese Cabinet continue.
ha

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
REP
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased before
TOKYO
being communicated to any-
ono. (B-1)
Dated October 11, 1933
Rec1d 4:32 a• m.
Secretary of State,
O
Washington.
156, October 11, noon.
九
CONFIDENTIAL. Reports of serious disagreement in the
Cabinet continue. On what appears to be reliable authority
00
the new Minister for Forein Affairs has aligned himsclf with
力
the Finance Minister in oposition to the demands of the army
and navy for increased a  ronriations. Hirota is reported to
8
be using his influence withh the reactionary and superpatriotic
8
societies to undermine the position of the Chauvinistic
military elements. As Hirota is friendly with this roup,
Cue to his early associations, they are stated to be willing
to listen to him and to accept his views as to what is good
for the nation in its rolations with other powers.
V
This turn of affairs is said to be causing much anxiety
to the militant faction in the army which is pushing the
Linister of War to insist on his demands for excessive
military appropriations. This group cares little for foreign
opinion and is ready to go to almost any lengths in what they
consider to be the country's needs.
The view

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
 REP
2#156, From Tokyo, Oot. 11, noon.
The view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that
the nation needs peace and friondly relations with foroign
nations, that the country is in no danger at the moment, and
that greatly increased military expenditures at this time
will carn an ill-will abroad which will cost Japan more than
I increased margin of safety is worth. If Hirota and
 ahashi can carry their point, many qualified obsorvers
o of the opinion that t ere will be danger of a coup d'etat
or an attempt at one on the part of the dissatisfied military
clements who seo thoir over vaning. In such an evont much
would depend on tie attibude of the Hinistry of the Interior
which controls tho polico.
The dict is duo to mect in Deconber and the bud ct must
:c ready by that time. Thorois a moasuro of opinion that
Viscount Saito may find himself unablo to meot tho Diet with
his prosont Cabinet and that he will either resign or give
a deoision which will discomfit ono or the other of the groups
in the Cabinet.
GREW
JS
HPD

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00
894.00/502
Te1.415-5pm.
SEE
FOR
2
Japan
Grew
Jan.23.1934
FROM
) DATED
to/111
222
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Reasons for resignation of General Araki,as
Minister of War,and its effeot on general political
conditions: Sets forth -,which are advanoed in
various quarter. Policies and disposition of
General Hayashi, the new Minister of War,and
probable effeot on general affairs.
2
2
2
fpg

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
fw
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
to anyone. (B).
Tokio,
Dated Jan 23, 1934,
Recd 9.40 am.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
力
15, January 23, 5 pm.
Several radically dif erent lypotheses are advanced
in various quarters to accourt for the resignation yes-
terday of General Ara as  in ster of Jar, none of which
101
can yet be confirmed as acurate. His present illness
has furnished the ostensible reason, and it is quite
0
possible that this is also the actual reason because his
illness deprives the army of a representative in the com-
ing debates in the Diet and there are doubts as to his
physical ability to carry on his work for some time to
come. The following factors and conjectures are, however,
being advanced in various quarters.
One. There are those who hold that the saner elements
in the Government, realizing the dangerous position into
which Japan is drifting, have taken advantage of Araki's
illness to insist on his removal as the symbol of a
policy of military aggression and that as a result we
may expect to see an important reoriontation of policy.
These

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
Page two No. 15, from Tokio.
These elements believe that Araki was not popular with
the Emperor and that with Hirota's growing strength
Araki's position in the abinet had become more or less
isolated. There has also been increasingly wide spread
indignation at the size of the military budget. It is
said that Wakatsuki and Suzuki recently threatened em-
barrassing interpellations in the Diet which would have
placed the army in an unfavorable light before the public
and that they agreed to refrain only on the basis of
Araki's rctirement.
Two. There has boen dissatisfa tion among the young-
er officers in the army at leing hidored from promotion
owing to Araki's tendency to retain the older generals.
General Hayashi, the new Minister of War, is a leader
of troops rather than a staff officer and is more likely
to retire the older generals and advance the youner men
with whom he is popular.
Three. Hayashi is said to be of a silent disposition
and is reported to have stated that army officers should
abstain from politics. It is therefore hcld that he is
not (repeat not) likoly to indulge in Araki's inflamatory
writings and speeches. This gives rise to a beliof that
his appointment representa a victory for the liberal
elements

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.96)
Page throc No. 15 from fokio..
elcments in the Governmont and a rising influencc of
the political parties and that the change of ministors
will have a stabilizin cffect in the country.
Four. On the othor und Hayashi is said to bo
sclf-willcd, impetuous and capable of rapid iccisions
as when ho moved the t roops from Korea to Manchurin
o. is own responsibility in lusl, in spite of Baron
Shidchara's protests. c is not (rercat rot) concilia-
tory and is less lik ly han Araki to pompromise.
There are, therofore, t ose wio bul ove that political
unrest will inercase tnd who uue in his appointment a
stop to prepare for vossiblc wer.
My present belief is that paragraphs numbered onc,
two and three pronably have bearing upon the aotral
situation. The coming debates in the Diet may affora
enlightenment.
Ropeated to Peipins.
CREW
HPD

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
THE UNDER SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB1O 1934
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Fobryary 9, 1934.
Nakajima was violently attacked, and
his resignation demanded, in the Diet for
having published several years ago a piece
of writing in which Ashikaga Taka-uji
(a l4th century figure whose memory is
execrated as the only man in Japanese history
to have attempted to seize the throne) was
referred to in not uncomplimentary terms.
However, it would seem from Tokyo's telegram
No. 24 of February 9, 4 p.m. that there were
practical reasons for the attack on Nakajima.
The dignity of the Imperial Family is
only too frequently used to cloak political
manoeuvres. In this particular case.
Nakajima's views on Taka-uji seemed to cause
no concern for several years, the hue and
ory being raised when it became politically
expedient for someone to see Nakajima
removed from office.
I cannot identify Toji Matsumoto.
FILED
5
3
20

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
Divian in of
TELEGRAM RECEIVED:FAM EASTAFFAIRS
H FEB 9 1934
few
Gray
el State
FROM Tok1o,
Dated Feb 9, 1934
Recd 6.34 am.
F/G
Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.002/223
24, February 9, 4 pm.
Baron Nakajima, Ninister of Commerce and Industry,
has resigned from the Cabinet and has been aucceeded by
Mr. Toji Matsumoto. It is not anticipated that this
change will affect the Cabinet as a whole or that it
indicates any change in policy. The resignation may
be attributed to dissatisfaction with Nakajima's hand-
ling of the consolidation of government and private
steel works, it being alleged that his relations with
the latter were too close.
JS
GREW
FEB 19 1934
FILED

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
SEE
102.81 Toyo/227
FOR
Tel.f-
224
FROM
Janan
Grew
.) DATED
Feu.10, 1934
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
resignetion of : inister of Connerce.
Re., arts -.
2
18

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
PLAIN
Tokyo (via Shanghai
& N.R.)
Dated February 10, 1934
Rec'd 7:10 a. m.19th
Seoretary of State,
Washington.
FOLLOWING FROM COMMERCIAL ATTACHE FOR COMMERCE.
February tenth.
"Week Diet featured resignation Minister Commeroe,
no important policy changes anticipated by suocessor.
General busincss conditions satisfactory, January exports
gained nineteen per cent, imports deolined seventeen per
cent oomsamper foreign trade first ten days February
exports five three one seven two, raw silk, cotton tex-
tiles, rayon textiles inoreased, imports six six three
eight eight, raw cotton deolined wool gained comsamper.
Acoording Bank Japan average wholesale prioe Tokyo Janu-
ary remains same December one seven five point five. No
change in monetary situation, authorities disoussing gold
buying bill for introduotion Diet providing purchase gold
mined Japan by Bank Japan at ourrent prioe less deduotion
for inoidentals expenses suoh gold to be inoluded in
Bank's resorve at a legal price Government to assume
theorctical

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
2-from Tokyo, Fob. 10.
theorotical loss betwcen logal and purchase prico
whioh loss to be covered by Government loans to Bank
not exceeding yon one hundred million annually."
Onc hundred forty-eight.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 5, 1934.
BF
Ichira Hatovama, late Minister of"
CP
Education, is a son-in-law of Dr. Suzuki,
president of the Seiyukai, and one of the
leaders of the Suzuki faction which has
been resisting efforts on the part of two
insurgent factions to wrest the presidency
of the party from Dr. Suzuki. A few weeks
ago, it was charged that Hatoyama had
received a fee of Yen 50,O00 for the use of
his"good offices" towards the granting
(by the Emperor) of decorations towards
certain individuals. Hatoyama made a tacit
admission of the charge, and his resignation
from the Government was considered to be
only a matter of time.
We have received no reports indicating
what the consequences of the change in the
Government will be. The chances are that
there will be secessions from the Seiyukai,
but we are now informed whether any change
in the organization of the party will
affect the position of the Saito Cabinet.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
N
RCEIVED
MC
MAK 5 1934
Gray.
DIVIDIUNUP
Tokyo.
Dated March 5, 1934.
894.002
Received 4.20 am.
Division of
894.002/225
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTIRN AFFAIRS
MAR 5- 1934
Washington
Depertament of State
宏
37, March 5, 11 a.m.
Hatoyama Minister of Education resigned
March 3. The Prime Minister has taken over his
portfolio.
GREW.
JS
MAP 6-1934
FTLED

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/226
894.00/506
#683
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Feb.21,1934
u
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING:
The Saito Cabinet.Discusses -,and the epidemic of attacks
on it.
esp

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.88)
2271.487
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AH5 1934
F
894.002
The previsten of artiele 9 of the eabaet regalations y
APR 5-1934
"shesa any Mdaioter of stete be preeeated tres diecharging
FIDHD

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.74)
6. he fesegeang repert is mibmitted in reply to the question eaked
in the evmlmatien of repert m0. 7000.
Distributiom:
1.11m 0.
MaJor. Omerel amff,
alimry Attmebe.
ded dung
hl
chen
m/

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVEI
COPIES SENT TO
WP
GRAY
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.J
Tokyd
FROM
Dated April 12. 1934
Rec'd 12:18 a. m.
F/G
Secretary of State,
Division of
Washington.
FAR FASTERN AR
894.002/228
66, Apr11 12, 11
Hayashi, Ministerof War, resigned yesterdey owing
ostensibly to the fact that his brother has been convicted
of bribery and sentenced to prison. It is reported that
the Prime Minister will urge the Emperor to refuse to
accept the resignation.
GREW
JS
PR 13 192
FILED
C

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPIES SENT TO
PT
GRAY
O.N.I. AND M. I.D
FROM
TOKYU
Dated April 16,1934
F/ESP
Rec'd. 12.30 a.m.
Division o
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
Secretary of State,
APR 16 1934
Washington
a al State
894.002/229
68, Apr11 16,
a..m.
My telegram No. 66, April12, 11 a.7.
Following a conference yesterday
afternoon
11.
with Prince Kanir and General Mazaki, Hayashi has
withdrawn his resigna ion and will continue as Minister
War.
GREW
JS
APR 17 1934
FILED

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 10, 1934
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 753 of April 30,
1934, reports upon the resignation of
General Hayashi, Minister of War, which
resignation was later withdrawn.
The Despatch is readable and
interesting.
It is to be noted that this is the
first politicsl Despatoh we have received
that has been drafted by Crocker.
FE:EHD:DLY

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.91)
低
EMBASSY OF THE
Asc
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, April 20, 1934.
No. 753.
SUBJECT:
Resignation of General Hayashi,
F/ESP
Minister of War.
5
Division o
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2ND
Lil
894.002/230
894.002
For Distr bution-Chock
Gonde
Per
JUSA
CR
ONI
2
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D
M
The Honorable
MAY 1 5 1934
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
228
In confirmation of my telograms Nos. 66/and 68 229
of April 12, 11 A.M. and April 16, 10 A.M. respectively,
all
I have the honor to report that General Hayashi, Minister
of War, tendered his resignation to Premier Saito on
'April 1l. Four days later, on April 15, he withdrew his
resignation and consented to remain as Minister of War.
The ineident, now passed, appears to have no es-
pecial significance beyond that revealed by the simple
Î facts. As the Department is aware, General Hayashi's
brother,

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
brother, Tukichi Shiragami, was under indietment in
connection with the Tokyo Gas Company seandal of 1929
and on April 1l Shiragami was sentenced to ten months
imprisonment for bribery. Immediately upon passage of
the sentence the Minister of War tendered his resigna-
tion on personal grounds and retired to nis privato
home, this being in keeping with the usual course of
action prescribed in Japan for public officials whose
family honor has been stained.
During the days following Hayashi's resignation
he remained obdurate to the pleas addressed to him by
his colleagues in the Cabinet and the War Ministry and
it was finally considered necessary to send for Prince
Kanin, Chief of the General Staff, who was absent in
the country. Prince Kanin returned to Tokyo on the
ovening of April 14 and sumnoned Hayashi who explained
the reasons for his resignation and remained firm in
his intention to refuse to reconsider his action. On
the following day the Prince summoned General Hayashi.
and General Mazaki, Inspeotor General of Military Edu-
cation, and after conference Hayashi was persuaded to
withdraw his resignation and to continue in office.
This he did and on April l6 was received by the Emperor
on which occasion he submitted a full explanation for
his aotions.
The only importance of this incident is the situa-
tion in which the Saito Cabinet was placed for the brief
period in which there was a possibility that Hayashi
might really withdraw. Few Japanese cabinets have suo-
cessfully withstood the weakening influence of successive
ohane

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
changes, but the Saito Cabinet is proving the exception;
nevertheless had Hayashi aotually withdrawn it might
have served as the last straw in this case and it was
with this in mind that those members of the Army who
are not enthusiastically in favor of the present régime
indulged in intrigue in an attempt to prevent the War
Minister from reconsidering his action in the hopes
that his resignation might prove the end of the Saito
Cabinet.
Hayashi's great popularity, however, with the
majority of the people, as well as with his colleagues
and the Throne,served far to outweigh the influence of
intrigue and the Cabinet undoubtedly emerges somewhat
stronger than it was before Hayashi's resignation.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.2
ESC:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/231
806.00 P.R./94
SEE
toes
FOR
Japen
FROM
Geew
Pebruary 6,1934
.) DATED
TO
NAME
23
1 -1127
REGARDING:
Successiom of General Araki by General Hayashi as War
Minister of Japan.
esp

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
804.00 P.R./76
745
SEE
FOR
FROMJepe
Grew
April 16,1934
) DATED
3
TO
NAME
REGARDING: Reports that the Saito eabinet is to remain in power
in spite of its weaksess and the reason for it.
esp

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
-  -
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Cabinet to Ramain in Bnite of leakmaas.
Although it was prophesied early in March that the
C.binet woule probsbly resign either at the tormination of
the B5th session of the Diet, or at least in May or June,
toward the last of th month opinion began to crystallise
to the effect thst in spite of al: the opposition to the
Government, and in spite of resignatlons and charges of
"irregularities", the C binet woul?' not resign in the near
future.
The outstanding events of the month were the resigma-
tion of Minister of Erucation Hatoyama on March 3,* resulting
fron charges of r ceiving a bribe from the Saghaliom Industrial
Coapany -- which charges were never completely proved or dis-
proved; the sensational charges by Mr. Okamoto of the Lower
House against Minister H.toyama and Justice Minister Koyama;
even Finance Minister Takahashi came in for a share when the
opposition Kokumin Domei party attempted to start impeachment
proeesdings against him for irregularities in the eonduet of
the Yokohama Specie Bank; and the final closing of theDiet
session with most of th pending bills passed and no Cabinet
resignation forthcoming.
While it seams fairly certain that the Saito Cabinet will
continue for some time in office, principally because there de
not seem to be any leaders strong enough to form a new Cabinet
that weuld be amy better than the present one, at the same time
mash speeulatiem has been indulged in by politieians and the
press regarding possible future premiers. Many are dissatis-
#mabassy's telegram Ne. 37, Mareh 5, 11 a.m.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.97)
of what eritiée term its imterantte patiey and meak admtads-
tration. The Kokumin Domei party frankly eclared its pur-
pose of doing everything possible t cause the downfall of
the Saito Cabinet, according to the ASAH: SHImBUN of March 28.
It gave as its reasons that the Cabinet had lost its strength
and its following, that uring its two years oxistence it had
accomplished nothing worth while, that the promiser relief
for agriculturists ha not be n realized, that purification
of politics and political parties ha not been achieved, and
that the corruption in the C binet itself proved that it was
unfit t r main in power as the people hac lost confi ence in
1t.
Upon resignation of the Education Minister, the Promier
took over the portfolio himself. However, there has been some
agitation in fuvor of his ap ointing a new Minister, inasmuch
as he is much too occupied to administer two posts at once.
The Beiyukai party of course wants to have a hand in the
seleetion, but 1t is rumored that the Premier may not be
guided by the political parties in his appointment, although
it is customary to heed their advice.
The Premier will shemtly visit the Genro, Prince Saionji,
in accordanee with annual eustom, an it is understood that he
wil) then ask the elder. ssatesman's advice about contimuing
in effiee. The press remarks that with two resignations in the
Cabimet it is quite remarkable that it saill carries on, and
sugsests that perhaps it is realised that this Cabimet has
the stremgest mueleus possible to have at present, with Ad-

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.88)
- £6 -
miral Saito, Minister Hirota and Minister Takahashi. Provided
there is no renewed agitation for resimation, it begins to
serm prob tle that Premier Eaito wil? fill the vacent post
andc 1 or.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/233
894.00/515
Tol.#96-4pm.
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
May 21,1934.
) DATED
119111
NAME
1 -1127
REGARDING:
Situation in Japanese Cabimet: Predicts that the
recent arrest of Kuroda,Vice Minister of Finance,
and other officials of Ministry of Finance,on
charges of bribery,will bring about the fall of
the present Cabinet. Saito's most likely successor
1s General Ugaki, now Governor General of Koree. It
is believed Hirota and Hayashi would remain in any
new Government that might be formed.
fpg

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
PT
This tologram must bo
closoly paraphrasod bo-
TOKYO
foro boing communicatod
to anyono (A)
Datod May 21, 1934
U
Roc'd. 5.20 a.m.
894.
Socrotary of Stato,
Wushington
96, May 21, 4 p.m.
Tho rocont arrost of Kuroda, Vice Ministor of
V
Financo, and othor officals of tho Ministry of Financo
人
on chargos of bribory is likoly to bring about tho fall
of tho prosont Cabinot, Saito, having takon offico as a
supor party man and with tho primary purposo of oliminating
politicul corruption from tho Govornmont, is rogardod as
that
avins failod in
ondoavor. Tho Cabinet has further-
moro lost prostigo as lacking initiativo and forco and
has boon weakonod by succossivo rosignations. Saito's
most likoly succossor is Conoral Ugaki, now Govornor
Gonural of Koroa. If tho Cabinot should fall it is
gonorally beliovod that Hirota and Hayashi would romain
in any now Govornmont that might bo formod. I oxpoct to
obtain furthor light on tho situation within tho noxt
fow days.
GREW
RR
WSB

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
OOA.OO P.R./TT
894.002/234
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
 1,1986
.) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Outlines the unfavorable situation which the Saito
Cabinet now finds itself and the fright which was
given present government by the resignation of the
Minister of War.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
-0
IXI. INTENNAL POLIYICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) V    
The resigmation of the Minister of War, Semeral
Hayashi, by way of accepting responsibility for his brother's
complicity in the Tokyo Municipal scandal, gave the cabinet
a severe fright and the nation a shock. Eventually he
was persuaded that his duty to the nation dumanded his
retention of ofrice, by Prince Kanin who as Chief of the
General Staff and as a member of the Imperial Family
is considered to have voiced the desire of the Emperor.
Whether or not the Cabinet itself would have fallon
had General Heyashi insisted on resigmation remains uncertaim.
But the Cebinet undoubtedly is shaky, and a strong faction
of the Army is willing to overthrow the present government
with the end in view of lacing General Araki or his liou-
tenants in power. Moreover, the support of the political
parties is half-hearted, the Seiyukai in partioular
cherishing ambitions of a return to power which its large
majority in the Diet would entitle it to under more ordinary
conditioms.
A problem yet unsolved, which continues to coneerm
the C&binet is that of finding & satisfactory Minister of
dueatiom to fill the post vacated by Mr. Hatoyama who
resigmed during the Diet sessiom. Premier Saito, whe
eomtinues to hold the portfolio, has attempted to find a
smesesser to Hatoyame, a member of the Seiyakai, in the
ramks of the same party, thereky hepins to maintain the
"Balamee

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
"balanee of Pewer in the Cabanet. Thus far he has been um-
suceessfal, possibly beeause of the disimelinatiom of in-
dividual members to board a sinking ship.
Unfortunately the Cabinet is not popular in any quarter
except with the liberals, and does not command the public
supnort as it has a right to expeet. Criticism there is in
plenty, but evidence is lacking of that whole-hearted co-
operation which a national Cabinet in a period of "national
crisis" demands. The major difficulties facing Premier
Baite remaim unsolved. To the extent that the nation has
recovered from the shoek of the Mey 15th outrages, the
missiom with which the Premier was originally charged has
been fulfilled, but the causes which gave birth to that
movement are still existent. The Seiyukai, the Minseito
and the Kokumin Domei are all confident that they can save
the country, while the fascist elements which would do away
with the Diet regard themselves as equally potential saviors.
But so far no party or person has come forward to suggest
a workable altermative to the pr sent Cabinet's painful
groping. Possibly none cam be found. (See also despatch
No. 753of Apr11 :0 1984.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
xx.
(b)
1. War Minister Sapports Governnent's Poreigm and
Damastia Poliaias.
The press and public hailed as most helpful the
announeement of War Minister Hayashi that he fully sup-
ported the foreim policy formulated by the Foreim Minister,
and would do all in his power to cooperate toward furthering
friendly relations with other nations. His statement was
opportume because many had begun to wonder whether the
Foreign Office had not lost some prestige in consequence
of its informal statement of Japan's Chinese policy.
The General stated that he also subsoribed te Japan's
domestic program and condemned unauthorized st terents
from army or other offici ls that tend to disrupt the
funetions of Governmemt. He stressed the faet that
diplomaey should be aided in improving relations with foreigm
countries, and that army officials should confine their
activities to purely mutters of national defemse.simee Gemeral
Hayashi was persuaded against resigning* he has launehed
himself wholeheartodly into a campaign to eliminate sus-
pieion of the Army and te strengthen its national position.
The definite pronouncement that the Army intends to
cooperate with all departments of the Government comes
as a refutation, the fImks maintains, of the growing suspicion
that military eireles were trying to undermine the con-
stitmtiemal regime in faver of some sort ef military dietator-
* Mabassyts Gespateh No. vss of Apr1l 20, 19s4.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.95)
-31-
The Gemeral is understeod to regard as importamt the
equal dérelopment of industries and national culture,
and intends to work for the harmonization of national
defemse, industry and civilian welfare.
?. Navy Bupports Foreign Polioy; Prepares fer
Conferenes.
While less definite in its statements than the
War Office, the Navy Office is reported to have declared
its support of the April 17th statement of the Foreim
Office regaraing the China policy. Navy circles
expressed some surprise that reiteration of Japan's mission
and dutw of  aint&ining peace und order in the Far Bast
should have caused suoh reperoussion abroad, according
to the ICHI NICHI of April £8th. That paper observed
that foreign nations may regard that statement and the
avy's opposition to any &ttitude that disregards Japan's
missiom in the Fur East, as a preparatory move for the
coming naval conference. The NICHI NICHI expressed a
doubt, however, that mere expression of a natural and
reasonable poliey could be considered as an attompt to
bring pressure to bear on the conference.
Purther preparations for the naval parley are now
being disoussed. It is reported that in formulating
a plan to present regarding sise and limitatiom of numbers
of various types of vessels, the Navy has determined to
eppese the abolition of submarimes whieh it alaims are
indispemsable to the "inferior" Japanese Navy. However,
it is wndersteod that the Navy may shortly propose to other
matiens the haltins of construetiom of aireraft carriers
2

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.95)
-3:-
as a prelude to tetal abolitiom at the loss eonferemee.
The reason advameed is that plane carriers sonstitute
offemsive, and not defemsive weapons, and are memases
to eivilian populations because of their long range
of operations. It is expected that a more conerete plam
for semmndngg changes in the present ratios will be
formulated upon the return of Ambassador Saito from
Washington in May.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894,002/
894.00/523
Desp.#814
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grow
June 1,1934.
FROM
) DATED
*6/11
NAME
1-1187
234
REGARDING:
The Saito Cabinet: Comments on -, which has
failed to meet the needs of the nation,and
has been weakened through resignations.
1
rp6

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/235
894.00/519
Tel.#121-1pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
June 9,1934.
FROM
) DATED
T9111
NAME
1-1197
23
5
REGARDING:
Japanese Cabinet: Ugaki candidacy to succeed Saito
as Prime Minister: Informs that -, has collapeed.
Army and Mavy responsible. Cabinet may remain,except
for Takahashi.
fpg

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
806.00 P.R./TO
FOR
SEE
FROMJ
(Grew
) DATED
J18.19
236
TO
NAME
1—1197
236
REGARDING: Discussion of the position of the Japanese Cabinet resulting
from the Kuroda Scandal, of the next cabinet,of the manoeuv-
ring of the political parties and of the attitude of the
Army and Navy to the whole question.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.94)
E. The Euroda Scandal Threstens Cabinetis Existence
As a culmination of the vague whisperings in the
press of late about a "serious affair", came the arrest and
indictment of Viee-Minister of Finance Hideo uroda and
four other high ofrieials of the Winistrye. The arrest
took place on May l9th, and the Minister of Justice is now
investigating all the charges. The trial will not be held
for some weeks yet, but weantime many political prognostiea-
tions are being bandled about. The first rumor vost
newspapers
* See despatch No. 79: of lay 18, 1934.
* Eabssy's telegram No. 9e of Hay xl, 4 ..

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.95)
-36-
memspapere carried said thes Finsnee Miaister Tarabackl
wald restge at mee beesuse of his effieial bener having
beem touehed and thet he mast coasider himself responsible
for the integrity of his depertamt. Most prophets were agreed
that if Mr. Takahashi resigned undoubtedly the Saito Cabimet
would resism, becanse the present Finence Ministry seandal
might prove to be the last straw. Two Kinisters have re-
sigmed besause of charges of "irregularities", another has
resimed for political reisons, and the Cabinet has become
s mewhat unsavory to the Japanese tuste, espeoially in vie
of its original purpose of concentrating on official disciplime.
Im that regard the public is understood to consider the Cabinet
as having failed. The Premier, however, urged Minister Taka-
hashi not to resim for the time, and at least to await the
findings of the court, as his Vice-minister hed thus far only
been accused. it the close of the month the situation was still
more or less the sames th: Cabinet 1ght resig any day, or
it might remain another wonth or two, or Premier Saito might
be asked to form & mew Cabinet-- in which the press believed
both Mr. Hirota and General Hayashi would be included. It
1s thought to be a fair guess that the Cubinet will not resim
before the end of Jume, and perhaps not even until the next
session of the Diet in December. Of course, as the NICHI NICHI
states, if the sitmatiom besomes too aggrevated and the people
lose entire confidence in the Cabinet, the Premier has empressed
his willingmess to resigm. However, the NICHI NICHI contimmes,
the Cabimet will met resigs even in the evemt that Minister
Takakashi should resim as a gosture of assmmptiem of respen-
sibdlity for the seendel. It is daid that the Ganre, Prinse
1111

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.93)
Saiamji, has coumselled Premier Saite te remain in effies.
But shsuld amother member become involved ats resigmetiom
is a feregome eomelmsiom.
8. hstCaat
Because the Kuroda scendal has greatly upzet the
Cabinet and politios in general,has disturbed the stoek market
opinion that the Cebinet will fall sometime in the near future.
If there were a stronf ano popular candidate ready to take over,
the press observes, it would probebly have fallen by now, with
the mounting reverses it has suffered. But the leek of an out-
standing "man of the hour" has undoubtedly influeneed Premier
Seito in his decision to remain for a time. Most loealinioms
and newspapers s pear to agree that there are two logieal cam-
didates: *üeneral Kazunari Ugaki, Governer-General of Koren,
and Coumt Keigo Kiyoura, foruer Premier and well-knowm statesmen.
The General is wederstood not to be pro-military, nd can be
considered  the same bas s as : civilian. Although the 
of May 2ath avers that Count Kiyoura is pr bably the stronger
candidate, other press reports and opinion in Army and Mavy
cireles seem to indicate that Gemeral Ugaki has the better chanee,
although it is ramored that he is supposed not to be popular
resigmatiom af & high offieiel of the Navy Departmemt ( see belou).
Beth the Samarel and the Camat !ave aamemer: to the press
that thay will "happem" to be in Tekye around the firat of
Jume ee basimess md pleasure. Each has inferred that while
t la net er to hald affiee, he 1s at the sme time a

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
-38-
4. Palitteal Partiee acin Nmesnrrins
The politieal parties, observes the AsANI of May 2and
and 28th, feeling sure that Mr. Takahashi's resignatiom should
shortly be tendered because of the scandal in his offiee, md
being convinced that his resignation will be followed by the
Cabinet's fall, are beoming very active in campaign planning.
Each wants to control the Premiership, or at least to put in
a man whose aims are not inimical to the party's program. The
Seiyukai, strongest perty of the Lower House, has long sponsored
the candidacy of its President, Dr. Kis buro Suzuki, earing
the appointment of either the General or the Count which might
result in the breakup of the party, because there is a section of
the Seiyuka1 which has d clared for General Ugaki. Yembers of
the Upper House Kenkyukai party, most of the Minseito party and
a bloc in the minority Kokumin Domei party are reported to support
General Ugaki for the Premiership. At the same time, it is ru-
mored that mueh of General Ugaki's political support,realizing
hat their own favorites have no chance at the moment, are ready
to swing to Count Kiyoura at such time as his prospects seem to
be brighter than those of the General. Political parties are
not popular with the public these days, and their leaders recognise
that the next Premier will doubtless be a non-party man. Barom
Kiichiro Hiranuma, Vice-President of the Privy Council, was a
possible candidate, but his popularity appears to have waned
with the appointment of Baron Kitoburo Ikki as President of that
body (see below) although Baron Hiranuma was next in line. Coumt
ms has the support of a section of the Kenkyukai, leaders
of the Koseika1, and individuals members of the Beiyukai and

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.93)
-39-
Rekmata Bames parties. Hovever, the Lan contiames, the
Count is well along in yoars and it is doubtsul 1s he coule
wi thstane the strain of cenduoting the Geverament daring these
stremmous times. Ee is queted as saying hinself that mew is
not the time for un old man to lead. As far as the possi-
bility of Barom Ikki heading the naxt C binet is concerned, the
AtamI thinks that the Genro will be reluatant to have him shifted
from his new post as Presidemt of the Privy Counc il, unless
complications develop and his candidaey is the only alternative.
Dr. Sumuki, head of the Seiyukai party, has beem mentioned as
a candidate to mepsesent a coalition of his party with the
Mimseito party. But he is not popular outside party circles,
and his chanees at this time are considered small by political
observers.
(0) 
1. attitude Torard Political situatim.
In accordanee with the announced policy of War
Minister Hayashi the Army is maintaining a calm attitude toward
the presarioms Cebimet situation, and the ASANI of May 4th
states that me opposition will be offered to any successor of
Promier Ssite. Although the WICHI NICHI of May 2Sth says that
the anti-Ugaki sentinent still persists in Ary cirales, and
that the Army mmen prefers that the Soite Cabinet continue, the
Minister is quoted as observing that what oppesition to Gemeral
Ugaki has beem heard does not represent Army opinion as a whale.
The Army's primeipel comeerm, it is understood, is that any
now Gevermmemt earry fermard preparatioms for the 19ss-56
"crisis", comsimins the presemt "continemtal poliey" and
immmoing

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.95)
-40-
impreving diseipline in efficial cireles.
2. The GmeaI of May zoth reperts that interest is heem
in the rumored personnel shakoup in Army appointmemts that
will come im August. The Minister is reported to contemplate
more drastic changes than would ordinarily occur at the anmmal
revision of lists. General Hishikari, Commander-in-Chief of
the Kwantumg Army, representing the extreme rightist elememt
among Army officers, is due to retire, und he may be replaeed
either by General Jiro Minemi, who is senior, or by former
War Minister General Sadso Araki, states the CHUGAI. The
article continues that both General Iwane Matsui and General
Yoshiyaki Kawashimi, commanders rsspectively of the Formosm
and Koreem garrisons, will be &ppointed members of the Supreme
Military Council, and may be succeeded by Lt. General Ken-
kichi Uoda, As:1stant Chief of the General Staff, ind Lt. General
Juichi Teramehi, commander of the Fourth Division. Lt. General
Heisuke Yanagawa, Vice-Minister of War, is likely to b. named
divisiomal commander, and his successor will doubtless be
chosen from among Lt. Generals Furuso, Tatekawa, Takeshi Hirose,
Presidemt of the Military College, and Teranosuke Hashimete,
Chief of the Gemeral Affairs Department of the General Staff.
(0)2
1. Rett Admirel Sakeno's Statemmt."
During the disenssion of Gemeral Ugaki's candidasy
for the Premiership, Resé Admiral Sakame, Navy spekesmen, issued
the statememt that " the Mavy as a whele is not nesessarily
* Rabassyts despatah No. a14 of Jume 1, 1934.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
-41-
opposed to an Ugak1 C binet." While the statement in 1tself
is not considered by the press as very serious, the fact
that he made it seems to 1mply that definite on osition did
exist. Further it smacks of political partisanship, which
is contrary to the Mavy's warning to all officers to re-
frain from politifal utterances. Undoubtedly Rear Admiral
Sakano will be asked to resign his post in orc er to prove
that disci line exists in the Navy.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.00/586
Despatch #831
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
June 14,1934.
FROM
) DATED
737
100111
NAME
1-1197
2
237
REGARDING: Saito Cabinet: Disousses difficulties of -. The
victory won by forces of liberalism has had a
favorable reaction to the Saito Cabinet.It is
believed that under certain circumstames the
Saito Cabinet will be forced toresign,but ap-
parently every effort is being made to retain
the Oabinet in power.
fpg

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.00/524
To1.#136-3pm.
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
June 27,1934.
) DATED
170111
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Saito Cabinet: Indications are that the Saito Cabinet
will be compelled to resign en bloc in a short time.
No successor to Saito,acceptable to all factions
can be found, and it is probable that the Cabinet
will be reconstituted with Saito as Premier.
fpg

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.91)
MET
GRAY
Tokio
Dated June 27, 1934
002
4.
Rectd 6:45 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
136, une 27, 3 p.m.
121
My iz, Juno 9, 1 p.m.
f
Indicationn aro sccoming incrcasingly strong that
tho Saito Cabinot wil: bo conipellod to resign on bloc
8
within a short ti e. As no succossor to Saito accept-
able to all factions can be found it is probablo that
the Cabinet will be reconstituted with Saito as Premier.
で
GREW
RR-HPD
力

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/239
894.00/525
Tel.#141-4pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
July 3,1934.
FROM
--..) DATED
11N1111
NAME
1-1187
239
REGARDING:
Saito Cabinet resigned en bloc today. It is gmerally
believed that a new Cabinet will not be formed for
several days.
fpg

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
JS
GRAY
TOKYO
Dated July 3, 1934
Rec'd 6:18 a.m.
Secretary of State,
X
Washington, D.C.
8
1417 Ju1y 3, 4 p.m.
f
Saito cabinet resigned en bloc today. It is
generally believed that a new cabinet will not be
00
formed for several days.
GREW
JS

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.00/527
Tol.#144-1pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
July 4,1934.
FROM
1N111111
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
New Japanese Cabinet: Admiral Okada,former Minister
of the Navy,has been charged with the formation
of a new Cabinet. Names of members not yet
announced.
rpg

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
JS
GRAY
TOKYO
Dated July 4, 1934
Rec'd 2:48 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
144, Ju1y 4, 1 p.m.
Admiral Okada, former Minister of the Navy, has
been charged by the mporer with the formation of a
new cabinet. Names of members not yet announced.
GREW
JS
2

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/527
Memorand um
894.002/
SEE
FOR
State Dept.
Far Kastern Division
Dooman
July 5,1934.
FROM
) DATED
1/T91
NAME
1-1187
241
REGARDING:
Selection of Admiral Keimuke Okada to form
a new Japanese Cabinet: Sets forth his views
as to real reasons for resignation of the Saito
Cabinet. Gives short history of Admiral Okada,
and states fact he was once an officer in Japanese
Navy may be one reasom for his appointment
as Prime Minister.
fpg

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
Tel.#146-7pm.
894.00/528
FOR
SEE
July 5,1934.
Grow
.-) DATED
Japan
FROM
1-1187
242
NAME
170111
REGARDING:
New Cabinet: RknGO announces that Hirota, General Hayashi,
and Admiral Osumi will retain their present posts in
the new cabinet,and that the present Vise Minister
of Finance Fuijii, will be Minister of Finance.
Refers to Fleisher's despatch to the NEW YORK HERAID
TRIBUNK,dated Nov.2,l932,giving an interview th
Admiral Okada,then Navy Minister.
fpg

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.95)
MED
GRAY
TOKIO
Dated July 5, 1934
0
Rectd 8:25 a.m.
0
494.
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
146, July 5, 7 pom.
One. It is definitely announced by Rengo that Hirota,
力
General Hayashi and Admiral Osumi will retain their present
posts in the new Cabinet and that the present Vice Minister
7
of Finance, Fuijii, will bo Minister of Finance.
Two. Tho Department will find significant Fleisher's
G
dospatch to the New York HERALD TRI BUNE of November 2,
1932, reporting an intorview with Admiral Okada who was
2
thon Navy Minister.
A
GREW
CSB

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/243
894.00/529
To1.#147-2pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
July 6,1934
FROM
) DATED
243
No111
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: Estimate of the new Cabinet: Gives -, as given
to him by a Japanese friend in high position.
The choice of Ministers represents an outstanding
victory for liberal forces in Japan.
fpg

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
PT
This telegrm must be
closely paraphrased bo-
TOKYO
fore bcing communicated
to anyone (C)
Dated July 6, 1934
494
Rectd. 8.03 a.m.
Sceretary of State,
Washington
f
147, July 6, 2 pom.
CONFIDENTIAL. A Japauese friend in high position
9
has given me the following ostimate of new Cabinet.
C
One. The choice of Ministers represents an
0
outstanding victory for the liberal and moderate forces
20
in Japan as opposed to the Ghauvinists and Nationalist
fanatics. The opponents of military aggrossiveness
have completely gained the upper hand and have denonstra-
ted their strength "like a clap of thunder". The country
is tired of a warlike phychology.
Two. The new Cabinet will follow the general
policy of the Saito administration but vith a now
driving force and initiative which Saito lacked.
Three. If the United States had been ablc to
choose the new Cabinet with American-Japanese relations
in viow it could not have done better.
Four. Admiral Osumi will not remain long as
Navy Minister and will probably be succoded by cither
Admiral

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
PT
- 2 - No. 147 from Tokyo, July 6, 2 pom.
Admiral Nomura or Admiral Kobayashi, not (ropoat not)
Admiral Suctsugu.
My informant is in close touch with the purposo
of lcadcrs, and ashe predicted Admiral Okada's aopointment
to me several days before the latters name had beon even
montioned by the press, the diplomath or the public,
his opinion is worthy of consideration.
I am not yet prepared to subscribe to tho foregoing
views in their en irety, but I do heliove that the choiee
of men for the koy positions in the new Cabinet indicates
a general trend away frem aggrosaive nationalism and
consequently may be considered ns a victory for the
moderates. This is the gen ral opinion in Tokyo.
Repated to Peiping by mail.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/24
894.00/530
To1.#153-1lam.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
July 9,1934.
FROM
-) DATED
1Ho111
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
New Cabinet: Admi ral Okada has succeeded in
completing his Cabinet which was formally
installed yesterday. Key posts filled as
described in my 146, July 5, 7pm. Full report
by mail.
rpg

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
WP
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated July 9, 1934
Rec'd 1:23 a. m.
0
Secretary of State,
494.
Washington
153, July 9, 11 a. m.
Admiral Okada has succeeded in completing his
f
Cabinet, which was received by the Emperor and formally
installed yesterday. Key posts filled as described in
00
my 146, July 5, 7 p. m. Full report by mail.
GREW
3
WP
0

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/245
OL.00 P.R./T9
f000
SEE
FOR
Japen
Grew
July 2,1984
FROM
--) DATED
TO
245
NAME
1-118
REGARDING: probability that Cabinet will resi. Attitude of the Army.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.94)
III. INTERNAL POLITIC L AFPAIRS
(a) Sahinat Will Prohahbly Resim
07
All during the month there was no subjeet more umder
8941
di cussion in the press an: by t public than that of the
po ible resignat on of th: C-binct.* Newspapers Pavoreble
t. the Baito Cabinet printer long e ttorials defending the
regime. They pointe out that no other Pr tler co Id have
ione any better tr Visoount Saito, owing to the unavoid-
abl interal con irim un to prec-rlous international
sitwatlon, and tist in the f ce of reat obsteeles his
Government had actu:Ily improve. relations with other coum-
tries. Other papers, alsu f vorsble, pointe. cut that there
is no oth r c wiidate for the Pr miership who would be
strong enouch to vin the lacking of th virious political
parties, the Army an: Navy and the publie, without which
no definite internal or ext rnal policies co, Id be success-
fully carried through. The opposition press n news item
and editorial made a gr at howl over the successive seandals
that have been uncovered in the Cubinet, and greed that of
course the last cese of corruption invelving the Vice-Minis-
ter of Finance, dr. Kurode, must result in the resignatien
of the Cabinet, because the public h. completely lost
confidenee in Its integrity as a whole.
Premier Baitc apparently remained unrufrled throughout
all tht hue ant ory, issuing brief ststements only when
necessary. But toward the en! of the month, as the Minis-
ter of Justiee eontinued to delay his report of investige-
tien of tne Kureda seandal, Mr. Takahesht, the Finance
No. 381 Jume 9,1 p.. and No. 136 Jume 27-7 p.m.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
anister, mas queted as saying that he would have me
cheiee ether than resigming if his fermer Viee-Min:ster
were indieted. The Premier was undereteod to have asked
him not to resign individually, but to aweit the outeome
of the investigations. If they were conelusive against Mr.
Kuroda, he implied thot perhaps the Cabinet would resim
en bloe. As time went on and no action was taken the prees
became impationt. Some editorials began to stte the
opinion that tre Saito Cabinet would survive even this last
se ndal, or, in the event resignation was inevitable, that
Viscount Baito would be asked to form a new Cabinet in which
both Mr. Takahashi an Mr. H rota would uncoubtedly be in-
cludod.
As tho month close 1t s: med that one man's opinion
about the future of the C binet was as good as another's.
The potential candicney of General Ugaki seemed to have
lost out entirely; a few papers sugrested : Takahashi Cabinet,
but not much support semed forthcoming. All agreed that
it was no time for a wan with deci ed politieal affiliatioms
to come forward. Mr. Yamamoto, the Home Minister, was al-
so talked of as a possible candidate. The question of the
Baito Cabinet remaining, the OSAKA AINICHI observed, de-
pends upon its adoption of on: of three courses: To per-
suade Pinanee Minister Takahashi to reconsider his resigma-
tiom, whieh it is assumed he will tender as soom as the
Justiee Department discloses its fin'ings in the seandal
eese; to tender a formal blos resigmation of the Cabinet
in antisipetion of its possible rejeetiom by the Thromes er
to engimeer the prelengatien of the Ministry em the assumpsien
thas the Imperial csmmand will again come to the Saite
in1st

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.95)
38
Ministry. If none of those coureee preve to be feasible
the MAINICHI believes a ehange in the Cabimet will be
inevitablo.
The Kuroda seandal in the Fimanee Ministry, whieh bids
fair to pr eipitating the f ll of the Cabinet, has takem am
unusually long time for investig tion by the Justiee Mini-
ter. while it was supoosed thet the delay was for the pur-
pose of  llowing the C:binet to r main lon. enough t. consi-
der th ner buiget, ane to permit toe considoratton of a
possible successor to t remier, the latest reports are
to the e fect trat the investig.tions uiv uncovered further
corruption wh oh  y involve a present vin'ster of th: Cabinet
and a fcrmer one. The press became exciten again over that
rusor rnd everyene clamored for an early report from the
Mirister of J st ce. He has promised to give  pr: lim nry
report on his findings uring the first ays of July. The
NICHI NICHI of the r8th carried the 1nform tion that at a
meeting of the Premier, winisters of Fin nce an Hone Aff irs
it was agr ed fin lly that if the findings showed that Mr.
Kuroda may be guilty the Cabinet would resign en bloc.
(b)
It has been the poliey of General Hayashi, Minister
of War, to keep the Army out of polities and to ke p army
men from making pelitieal st tements. However, with the
Cabinet erisis looming during June, and with the general
dissatisfactiom over the politieal situation, it is under-
stood that Army cireles and politicians have tried to in-
duee the War Min ster to throw his influenee into the balance
in obtaining the Cabimet's resignation. The KoxuxIm takes
the stand that Generel Hayashi is as much a Minister of
金a2

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
39
state se angy ethee, ane then the adegaste dettnse of the
coumntry is menased by the pessibslity of a retused buiges
and a vegue stand on international questiems, it is his
dusy to do his best to end the intelerable sitmatien.
Gemeral Hayaski was reported to be very losthe to take sides
in the pelitieal arem, especially after his firm stamd
en keeping out of polities, but the uneertainty of the
Govermment policy and the future of military support have made
him so anxious that the KokumIm believes he is almest reedy
to take what measures he o n to improve the Government situ-
ation. The AsanI obeerv s that while some sectioms of the
Army believe the War Minister is too lmkewarm in his at-
titude towaro the politieal s1tuation, and still others
think he should have nothing to do with it,  ll se m to be
agreed upon tht necessity for : defi ite state policy with
regard to military plans and defense in general. And further,
the paper says, 1f the Army plams are not allowed to be ear-
ried out there may be serious sonsequenees to the nation.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.92)
0N
1.l
OBIVED
AUG 7-1934
nepert o. 105
FAR EASTER
July 5. 1924
JUL 28
0-Uharaotoristios-
Perecnnel
002A
Department of State
Admiral Kmisake oxans - Primo Minister.
Admiral Keisuks Okada has been appointed Prime Ministar
to susssed idmiral Viscount Saito, Admiral Ckada's career is
as follows:
1868 (Jan.) - born in Fukui prefeoture.
1889 - graduated fran Naval Academy.
Ae94 - 5 - Division Orficer Naniwa (Admiral Togo's ship)
1904 - promoted to Commander
l904-5 - Emoutive Offioer, Kasuga.
1908 - promoted so Captain
l9ll - on duty, Bureau of Personnel, Navy Department.
002/246
1912 - Commanding Ofriosr, Keshiwa
1913 - promoted to Rear Admiral.
1913 - Commandant, Sasebo Navy Yard.
19l4 - Commander Destroyer Squadron, Second Fleet.
l915 - Chief Second and Third Seotions, Naval Technical
Department (Torpodo, Submarine).
1916 - Chief, Bureau of Porsonnel.
1917 - promoted to Vice Admiral.
1917 - Commander in Chief. Sasebo Naval talion.
1918 - Chief, Bureau of Milltar.
uppli00,
1920
Vice Minister of Navy.
1922
Member, Board of Admirals
1924
promoted to Admiral.
1924
An
Member, supreme war counoll.
1924 (Deo.) - Commender in Chief, Combined Fleet.
1927 - Minister of Navy (Tanaka Cabinet.)
l929 - resigned with Cabinet - made Member Supreme War Counoil.
1932 - Minister of Navy (Saito Cabinet).
1933 - (Jan. 9) - resigned on reaching retirins age and placed
on Reserve List.
AUG
FILED
9
5
3

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.80)
-2-
Admiral Okada is a simple, frenk, unpretentious, straight
forward, hard working man. He is not brilliant or partieularly
was a very able naval officer and made a fine reputatiou both as
Commander in Chief of the Fleet and as Minister of the Navy. He
is considered to be one of the ablest administrators that the Navy
has produced and an authority on destroyer taotics and torpedoes
During his two temme as Minister of the Navy he aoquired an
unusually clear insight into Japanese politics for a naval officer.
He is as well liked by politio ians as any military mnn can be and
while he has not identified himselr ith any particular political
party he mas ponsidered te favor the e iy khi and the Tahaka polioy
tn hint.
or soverar oars.t lral onde has been etive bonind
w soons taet  be bre avy ad te po
artles.tood ubility ns aegotlator,
beim able to bri sroups with divergent opinions pato  somro-
mise admiral uxada is thus un excellent choice at tiis lme e
so much uopends on nteerl a alddle course, chockit
radieul elts e   a ltal
t
...t
201105.
da
Rore 
tr
y b
1
predeces
138
101
trals Ato
5

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002/..
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/533
SEE
FOR
despatch#896
394.002V247
FROM
Japan
(Grew
) DATED Ju1y 18.1934.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Okada Cabinet: Conplete nccou t of cire  stances surrounding
formation of -, togethor vith biorraphical data on  inisters.
bo

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.85)
Tokye, July 18, 1084.
o. 896.
0
3.1
The Okada Cabimet.
Bubjeet:
The Honorable
The Soerar of state
rashington.
Vr
I heve the nonor tfer t my legru. l
Joly,7 p..147,J1 , .  . 1
July S, li a.m., concorning tou composition, policy and
installation of tho Cabinet of  miral Xelsuke Saaia,
which assumes ofrice on July , l954. Thr coapositiom
of the Cabinet at the time or instal ation was as followss
Premier: Acmiral feisura Oxada, on the retired
list of the Japanese Navy an, Muvy
sinister in too preceding Cabinets.
Mintster for Forcign Affeiras Mr. Sox1 Mirota,
a esreer aiplemetie officer ant Ferelgm
CBF√
Mimister in the preeeding Cabinet.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.83)
Finance Minister: Mr. Sadanobu Pujii, a eareer
oe=
official of the Finanee Ministry
and for a short period Viee Minis-
ter of Finanee in the preseding
Cabinet.
War Minister:
General Senjuro Hayashi, on the
J√
active List of the Japanese Army
ant Wer Minister in the preeedins
Cabinet.
OF
ayirist
Asmiral Wineo Osumi, on the aetive
ist of the Jepanese Mavy and
Navy Wirister in the preceding
Corinet.
Kintater for ome Lftirs r. Fumto Doto,  non
party ststesmar un inist-r for
Agricuiture In the praceding
Cobinet.
21
Justic dirist ri
ur. Faoshi Obars, * caroer offi-
V
cirl of th- Justico Miuistry and
for er Ch ef Judge of the Tokye
Co t r Aocals
etrGenprent
scmber ar t Fir selto n once
 for resfr r
reindus ryr. Chu1  chi
e. prominent memher  the Min
seito n MInieter for ariculture
   C
Mi lster for Com unic tlona: r. Takejiro Tokonemi,
Far erly
rominent pember of
the de yakei (n expelier) an
in ator to: me fr ire in too
ne
i tor for ric tw un for stry Nr. Tatsuno-
V
suke Yamasski, formerly of the
seiyukai (n p expelled).
Vinister f r Pailveyzi r. shinys Yehida, rormerly
of the Set vukei (now expelled).
Minister for verseas affairs; Xelc coneurrently
alth position of Frosier by Ad-
airal Okade.
Confidential Biographle rata Heports on the ner members
of the Cabinet are erclosed herewith.
Compesition i the Sabines.
The Cabimet, as finelly installed, eoneists of three
satirn

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.87)
一 3 -
aetive or retired m litary mon (Admiral Okada, General
Rayeshl un" Aimiral Osumi), three "bureauerats" (är. Hirots,
Mr. Pujii, and Mr. Obara), one non-party politieian (*r. Goto),
three former Selyukai men (Nr. Tokonami, ür. Yamasaki and
Mr. Vehida) and two Winseitg mon (r. Matsuda and Mr. Machide).
The Okads Cabinet, therefore, live th. prece ing Salto Cabinet,
cen be considoret t) te a "n ti nel" Cauinet, exoept for one
peculier cireumstance, nomels, t t no peer io inclu en in 1ts
composition. As far ss c  be ascert ined ty a brier investi-
gatien, rectlcally rvioue Cat rets a v ineluied it
leat one mesl er or tr peerege. it s vorsibie that the
dverseas Wipistry hi t ton fi ec for the pregent with
the octution ofintinth
st
able canl ate is foun Ther hrn onerepaper te
cusslon of the vss llity of p pinting rince Kovoye (who
hee cut short his visit t the Unites St tes on ls urrying
home) to the wosition o wl ist r for ver seas aflairs, but
both the Prince and tie Princess, et is in Jepan, have ri-
diculed the idee.
The newspapers gener lly cons! er t e Cabinet to be
possible exoeption of ar. Fuaio Osto ah s rumored to be
s mewhat in sympathy sith the roaction ry gronps. The Tokyo
ASAmI considors the Cabinet t be bureaucratic, while the
BoCaI constdors it to be sn extension of the Bsito Cabinet,
especially in the reelm of siplomscy.
éepointnt el ri S rmier.
men 1t became reasonably certain thet the Baito Cxbinet
wou'd not be able to survive the seancal in the Finanee Minis-
try, there was mmsh speemlation in Tokyo regarding the person

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.79)
-4-
who weuld be copmanded t form the next Capinet. The cames
Kilteiro
of Gonera! Ugaki,  Count Tiyoura, Baron Hiranma, Dr. Jusuki
and Baron Yamegoto were mentioned, an st one time it seemed
certain thet Oenernl Ugnki wo ld be seleet d to hee: the
next Cubinet. when it beoume appar nt, howover, that influ-
artial elements in bet tre arey nd th M vy wer anelterably
oppeeer t the Genere, he boon urrt. t as ter wiely
anntn te commanded
for C  not,r t orCabinet
mould ue refuse to rr etime,hesever
toer were ue ror that Tirei
e tr
wer cloee  t thrr com erd
"at re" as
tthe
the
aark aree, out in vle or the pupor whie wer ciying
th c pitl, the  y nesit t sve credenee
tothe rport.
vatlous reasone he bervur tpint
ment of a mirel Oka a. One (perhe s t ost rasonable) 1s
t tha raval cisuraament cuestion ta the at lm rtent
ueation confrontig t  aton  t resent time,nd
thereforenaval an rte tee tst cotce for
 ier. slre ka it bip yavocte
but when the London Maval "isaree ent Treaty wes under con-
sideration in Jace, he nct as mediator between the mntl-
treaty party,  y Amir 1 Kandt Sato, and t pro-treaty
party,lodmir
e, Bar akatsuki an (then)
Premier Hamaguehi, an is therefore, fully informed regarding

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.85)
- 5-
both the ciplam tic und teahnion! sides of the quessiom.
Lator (November, 19sx) in - newspa er intervtew, he deelared
tho th tron Weve Tr aty Toft muen t b dostrud; that
Jato
ercund
tbtr1to
Cabinet es inevlt ble, about t end or June, ae sixty
s fic of the p Nay ad rnd et tion to
mi Kco, cin Cor the roatlon t sahinton
Vaye? tsarmament Tre ty er n estab: tohment or the prinei-
ple of nevsl nuslity. The fenr,arousod by this otition, of
frosh outbreexs of violence on t art of the ounger ofri-
cere in both the Mavy sn the Army is sai t have influoneed
Prinee Baionji in the solcetion of a navel mur for Pr mior, it
being thought that tae si i nry wo l feel thst their imterests
wers in sefer hande if a Fllitar can wert head of tho Goverm-
A
tent, than  f a eivilian woro Premier. while, thertfore, the
liberel element was eallink for the selection of a knomm
sound, safe statun, muc ar Ganeral Ugaki or miral vis
count Baito, nnt the super-patriets wore calling for the se-
leetion of am ultra-natlonclist, such as General Araki, Ad-
miral Ksnji Kato, or Baron Hiranuma, « midcle eourse wes takem
and

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.74)
-6-
and adsiral Oxade was ohosen.
Admiral Okmde is also sald t: be somet lng of  genius
ot Cumpromisins betseen contending fact ons. As was mentioned
above, he un ertook  meninte etween the unti-treuty fuction
atrotrey fette
the Lon on Neval
Ireaty pas preser te for r tirie tion in J an, n succeeeded
in uujuscine che trre unces betaeen  t r t such
anont that th treeythunrantly
itoe tur etnot
De teby Jr ie,when er or the
y1 theiebin
ertookt the if
rerees een th
Ct
theth
ttrGo
1
cority
1
ceded in ad
trurtly,ltn ughalgned s
srri
tes eeol
n con
sre Istinetly
r:rlit eins It 1 felt
u
th
n
rt
tnfthe
Larmetion of the Cabinet.
The formetlon af the Cabiret was trerded with consicore
ble iffioulty, es, in or er to he  really nattuns C binet,
such

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.80)
-7-
such as was apparently in ended, all foctions or the nation
should be represented in its finel comsosition. Almost from
们
the firat it was understood that former sinister for Foreign
Af"airs Koki Hirota, former sar Vinister Gereral Hayashi, and
Former Mavy Winlster r mirs Osumt =oul: ratsin their posts
in the now Cab net. while t was soos n ounes th t Vice
iriater of Pinance Fujil ln the salte Cblnst wout aoome
inerre vi-tster in the res Co minet. This ra" stt etly
 surpriso to thteor, io caridently
xctt
Sa1to
Cabirrt. rr
fe
lds
y
CPT
7
er
net
icult.
cidates
1.
V
befrtn of
tional
r
Coset the ollto trroeh. The  stlon or ah setvukal led
by r. Totonert, tever, a eu s lons been oprosed to
tre Sectlor lee by the Fresluent, r. Susukt, ccopted a
later

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.82)
一 -
leter offer of three posts in the nes Cabinet un named s.
Tokonaei. Er. Yamosakt r Nr. "oh!  for the poste. At the
sawe time thuse t rue er res! ner fron the Sei mkel, but
ithout aecepting thais sig tlore, the Balvukst expelled
the Iro the party. The et ttun of tu three orominent
J
 of   e 
 coion  t ps  l
un oubt y e ne linrt ocliries. but in
of the partie o not r ust e inter st. hii the ro
fesnlonel politiel ,t  lesed the
now Cabinet, the libere elenet ir t n lon rrilr it with
great thusism,ivietor for trIt
a viotory, in the se 
=oirtrmrtional
stic, uovernment ws t pl c ior.
puppert lur su énn Salinut.
Ine ne Caoinct ls n suport uy ene ertire net'on.
The Mineeito (the winerity  rty in ths Lower House) has
rood to work lth tne s laat. Ihe Calyuket  opposed
to to. Caninet, ezoept for tns I ctien follnwing r. Tokonami,
ct Ls com uted at soae thifty em ore. T Xoruntr Tomel
(sr. inaen: s party) 1s op osed t the new Cabinet becruse it
Ls not & "f seist" government, but reserves its o position
for the time being. The Konkyuknl, the majority perty in
the House or Poors, wil! cooperate with th" C-rinet 1f its
genern: policins ree with those of the enkyukal. the
Meirinkal (an association of ex-zervies officers) opposes
the Cabinet beeruse 1t nus afriliated itself with the "eer-
rupt" pelitieal porties, but the Meirinkal will reserve its

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.88)
- 日 -
views for the present. The Mippem Seisento (the influential
reastlonary soeiety of witsuru Toyame) 1s oppesed to the
Cabinst because Anairel Oxade is supposed to bave sapported
tur on avl Trty.
Ths ea Cebiret tre fore p rst h ve the support
of  iberl le nts, but   d b the rettonary
lemerts a some of tn ro essionel volltieisns. It will
be a,  a'l prob bility, t command
aejority in the
150
ubt resnrcing its sup
port in the Lower s se. The ceiyeeal hee in the ptst few
sesslons comanded  cler  rity ir the Lower House, but
rith th or ction af Tokonami un is followere, it is
Foubtful if the S yu al cen continue t enioy its predomi-
八
nentit n. ronst  ction allles ilf ith
th lrseito, 1t is osx ble that the new Cabinet wili be
ble to command a me ority in the Lower Ho se. If not, the
ict n be issolved t  ener i eieetion neld.
Policien ef tne Dhase Cabicate
No general policy of the Oxada Crbinet has as yet beom
announced, sith ugh it was int!a ted to the newspapermen
that suah s at tement wouls be is ued after the Cabinet moet-
ing on July 1x. The Kmbassy ha: received indireatly the
informmtion that ex-Premier Beito stated in a private in-
turview th t the Okada Cobinet woulr follew exmetly the
pollcles of the Saito Cabinet - thet the:e would he no
change at all 1 either domestie or foreim policies. Moree
over, Admirul Baito st tad th t Pinaneu Minister Pujil would
follomaxzetly the fin ncial policies of his predeeesser, ms.
Takahashi.
The individual Ministers, however, expressed themselves
briefly as to their polieies shortly after the Cabimet was

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.84)
-10-
in ueted into offiee. Thus, Mr. Hirota is reported to have
al: (JAPAN ADVERTISER trans)at ons):
"I intend t. fullos the poliey of international
co-operstlon, efireu at the Five-lntster Con-
ferenee under the Suito Csbinet. ds regares the
prevailing situstlon In Europe, I wil liston to
explanations from amb seador Yontsce Bato, who will
return shortly from Franee. T Hull-Hirota mes-
seges rrvom? th presont J n-amerlon situation
 thes sre p sufricient. So I wil listen to
 opin   mt ssedor iroen Boito of Wash
ington, n 1 n repsres  t ke conerete tepe
to ur moce better relstions.
"Ja an's relattns it Chine r Improving. Our
"elat nr sit the Soviet Unler sr not bad. The
are rlan testion I t wost laportant atter
tresnt Jt vernmnt an the
people must give t wir su ort.
"The wort at resent a uncasy woen le lly and
politie lly. In prder t surmount this, the Powers
t cooe.T
Isarmement Conference of next
year wils be t
eateef ra eing the coop
oratton or t reeers. s  ts res rsible
r thetoes  ethrlnt, it is
necea ary for tuis c untry t intein the arse-
:3
crasesLtativerworlesn
vertanty mostive trliearce in
r.irr rireei ror to ve oi
pas you are smere, Jeper la f cine crisis in
te l'y  extor lly. Ttion mu t solve
in ortrt firr e i n economie robleas. r
forts of the tovernment : lote  ii set be enough
t surmount ifricu ties, sn ub le support
i sincerely br,e fer. i eil t rapi y change
te financial olicy, but will follow the Taka-
baenl plan. clome lavestlestisn vil be le before
I csrry out e policy. I not think the present
unbelancr vrer get 
lart me it
is.
nut ceces srtly believe
the deficit has to   aue good wito tax incresses
lune, sirce incr use expencitu es r  matter
of course 1r connectiun sith the Mencnurian *frsir
 replen sheent  t l afe e, lthough a
trx increase vili be mece ary."
The st. towents msd by other wi laters at that time consisted
of plutitudes and are of no signific nee, exceot thet Justies
Minister Obara stated that he "a'tacher the grestest impor-
tenee to the rectificstion of official discipline end puri-
Lleetion

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.80)
-11-
fleation of eleetions", indie ting that he will continus
his predeeessor's policy of uncovering graft wnenever end
wherever iscovered.
八
On July l3 the Japanese mewapapers stater that A miral
Oouml, the Navy ioister, ha submitte proras to Prrmier
Ouers, calling for the renunclctier by Ja er of t rinel le
of navel rotlos, for autonomy in r tion cefense, for in-
slatence on Japan's claims to the mandatet outh  a islands,
for completion or Japan's hanchurian ol ey,
oru
nt of rel tiona wit  soviet tnio rugh the solution
of   sy roble throg th 
1
si
er
the
cosirrfilty i r renire th Fivelieter Cor ees (the
rive miet tere ooe'ative of th rr mter ar h ro lan
y arFire) i  tt t ci
ftrexpla  inuech
tht
1t5
bellevee by the polltie rtare for t verneeu ar  s
pero, h wovr,tt the  trs inte fror  woi
tie 1 partics, none of whom hold  sts entitlirg them to
rtiett n  t vei ister nfernces et
ser cualy t th confe ences.
2n Ints.
T Jencse rars ly nr
find items
of u
lterst gr t pe ors i uoic ee. In
the  ss af  tr 1  a. tey nve strese bis verty and
thie love of icoholic bever gos. It is st tad that when he
accested

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.84)
-1-
socepted the Imperlal comman" to form a Cab net, he possessed
only Yen 4o0 u ready cnsh, ans as he wes compelled to spend
monoy et th rate ef Yen 2on a day while forming the Cabinet,
he ha to borrow Yen lo00 from his r lmtives. Also that,
wlten he soveo int the Premler' ofriell r si  nee from his
humble und stere riv te residence, reht  th him
only  taxteab-lod of ormon ef eet a serv nts ex-
cetad hoce ece
ay frsivte home
to take e re of hi clothing. woreovr,s
Bative province, Puut, leirtre that toe  mir i  only
eavy wint Srock cot tr  eh t maertle e lis
in tor sum er heat.
toh t
a pu rpetgnt froe ct t  iral.
sept .Gre.
Enclosures:
Confidentla: Biographic
ata.
800.
ERD1
Copy to Legat on, Pei ing
B
Berne
A true copy of
hed rigt

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 22, 1954.
m
Mr. Philli
You will find exceedingly
interesting material in this, a
G-2 produotion on "Japan: The
Now Okada Cabinet and Japan's
Naval Program", especially on
pages 14851 fr.
SKH
tew
THE UNDLCRFFAR
u1
271934
DEPAHIMENLOESIALE
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.93)
Ang.14
Ja
WE.
4

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Secretary, General Staff
G-1
G3
SAH
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics branch
Budget & Legisletive Pl. Br.
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industri l College
Army War Collere
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & Goneral Staff School
Field Artiller
Finence
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Inculer Affcirs
Judge Advocete Gener 1's Dept.
Militin Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dent.
Quartermastor Ceneral's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Turope
Western Europe
Near East
Latin Ajerica
Far East Dr. Hornbedk
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Forein & Domestic Commerce
Aeronsutics Trade Division
Tor your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
Aug. 10, 1934
TENO
3
f.le
SCR
RECEIVED
Division of
CEPARTMENT OF STAT
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
FAREAST
AUG 14 1934
1974G2
A11
Bopartmont of State
Japan:
VISICH OF
The New Okada Cabinet and Japan's Navai Program -
The Saito Cabinet's fall on July 3, 1934, was not unexpected.
For months, the political prognosticators had been announcing its im-
minent resignation for causes which in other times would have been suf-
894.002
ficient for the purpose. When the long rumored financial scandal in-
volving Kuroda, Vice Minister of Finance, among others, was officially
announced in May, it was conceded that the cabinet's tenure was limited.
providing the charges against Kuroda were sustained.
894.002/248
The resignation of Takahashi, the Finance Minister and one of
the strongest men in the Saito Cabinet, should have satisfied the Japa-
nese sense of official responsibility for the actions of a subordinate,
and the Government would have continued its course; but several circum-
stances militated against this solution of the situation. Premier Saito
and Takahashi are both elderly men who had given their full meed of
public service before a high sense of duty impelled them to return to
office in May, 1932, following the reactionary plots which resulted in
the assassination of Premier Inukai. This same sense of service kept
them at their posts in the face of severe criticism; but it is likely
that Premier Saito refused to consider going on without the counsel and
support of his old friend, Takahashi. The cabinet, moreover, had been
woakened by five resignations since it was first organized, and by the
fact that no sui table appointee to take the vacant portfolio of the
Minister of Education had been found -- for political reasons of course.
lMost damaging of all, the irregularity involving the Vice Minister of
Finance was also charged against Baron Nakajime, former Minister of Com-
merce in the Saito Cabinet, and Chuzo Mitsuchi, Minister of Railways.
This official malfeasance was too heavy a blow for a Government which
came into being at the peak of public indignation over similar iniquities
in previous party cabinets, and which had practically pledged itself to
avoid them. There was, then, nothing for the Saito Cabinet to do but
resign, when the charges against the Vice Minister of Finance were fine
FILED
ly confirmed.
G
3
While the resignation of the Saito Cabinet was no surprise,
selection of Admiral Keisuke Okada, former Minister of the Navy under
9
Premier Saito, to head a new Government was generally unexpected. He
proved to be as much of a "dark horse" as his immediate predecessor had
been. The reappointment of Admiral Saito had been considered a likeli-
hood by many, and, while Admiral Okada's name had been casually men-
tioned in the press toward the very end of the Saito regime, the names
of General Ugald, Governor General of Korea; Baron Kiyoura, former
Premier: Baron Hiranuma, reactionary leader; Dr. Suzuki, President of
the Seiyukai Party: and General Arald, fomer Minister of War, had all
been frequent subjects of speculation for months in connection with the
Premiership. The first named had small chance of muccess because he is
22
too much of a liberal to suit the army and navy; the second, because he
1s too aged -- ho is 84; the third, because he has lost some prestige
of late; the fourth, because public distrust of the political parties
has not suffisiently abated: and the fifth, because his flamboyance,
-14848-

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
ostensibly patriotic, while Minister of War created an unfavorable im-
pression among his more conservative fellow countrymen. None of the
criticisms directed toward these candidates applied to Admiral Okada.
He is 66; has had administrative experience, first as Vice Minister of
the Navy in 1923 and 1924, then as Minister of the Navy in the Seiyukai
Government of Baron Tanaka from 1927 to 1929, and lastly in the same
post under Admiral Saito for about seven months; and represents, more-
over, an armed service whose opinions are bound to be heard durin, the
next year or two.
The procedure leading to Admiral Okada's selection was an
interesting example of the operation of the powers surrounding the Throne
in Japan. There has been much speculation as to what persons or offi-
cials would succeed to the authority of the Genro upon the death of the
aged Prince Saionji, the sole survivor of the group of elder statesmen
who began to advise the Emperor in the early days of the Meiji era. The
custom of consulting the Genro whenever a cabinet crisis occurs has been
adhered to, but Prince Saionji's extreme age -- he is 95 -- and residence
outside of the capital conceivably have prevented his keeping in close
touch with all phases of current political affairs. During recent years
it has been his habit to consult wi th one or more officials near the
Throne, especially Count Mekino, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal; but on
this occasion he enlarged his group of consultants to include also the
Grand Chamberlain to the Emperor, the Minister of the Imperial Household.
the Chief Aide-de-Camp to the Emperor, the Lord Steward to the Emperor,
the President of the Privy Council, Premier Saito himself, and three
former Premiers. It is significant that nearly all of these men are
classed as liberals or near-liberals. It is also significant that before
Prince Saionji arrived at the conference, the other members had con-
sidered and approved Premier Saito's suggestion that Admiral Okada.
his friend, be appointed. The recommendation apparently pleased Prince
Saionji, and his presentation of it to the Emperor sealed the matter.
The whole procedure indicated that the system of seeking the advice of
so-called Elder Statesmen on behalf of the Emperor will not be allowed to
die with Prince Saionji. It indicated, too, the probable membership of
the group to succeed to his prerogatives.
Despite the pronounced liberal bias of the advisory conference,
Admiral Okada's selection was a compromise. During recent months there
hes been a noticeable trend away from the extreme policies advocated by
the army, navy, and reactionary civilian groups, but these circles are
still too powerful to be disregarded. The "Big Navy" adherents had to
be satisfied that their claims for naval equality at the scheduled 1935
Naval Conference would have adequate representation; and the appointment
of a high ranking admiral -- and a Supreme War Councillor, to boot --
seems to have quieted their fears. Admiral Okada's actions in coolly
courting unpopularity and danger by mediating between the delegates who
had accepted the London Naval Treaty and its bitterest enemy, Admiral
Kanji Kato, then Chief of the Naval General Staff, and later defending
that hated agreement in the Diet worked in his favor with the liberals.
It is possible, of course, that the naval group's knowledge of these
indiscretions on the Admiral's part was overshadowed by their realization
that he was the best Premier for their purposes that they were likely to
get under the circumstances. The fact that Admiral Okada is not a member
of any political party satisfied the reactionaries and others opposed to
parliamentary government and the politicians. The army and the indus-
-14849

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
trialists have at least voiced no objections.
The chief group opposing Admiral Okada is the Seiyukai Party
itself, regardless of his service in a Seiyukai Cabinet under Baron
Tanaka, and of his efforts as mediator between the Seiyukai and the Gov-
ernment during the early days of the Saito incumbency. The Seiyukai is
the majority party in the Diet, stripped of power though the latter now
is, and they have steadily hoped and worked for the return of straight
party government with Dr. Suzuki, their President, as Premier. Failing
this, the majority of the party has refused cooperation with the new
Government. The chief reason for their opposition, it is reported, is
Admiral Okada's failure to open the way for the acquisition of the Pre-
miership during the days of his mediation. Indeed, it is said he re-
sined from the Naval Ministry actually because he was unable to carry
out his commi tments to the Seiyukai and not merely because of ill health
upon reaching naval retirement age, as was stated at the time. The
Minseito, the other principal party, and the more liberal of the two,
is supporting the new Government, partly, no doubt, because it too hopes
for a return to power.
The composition of the new Government ensures a regime un-
changed in essentials from that of Admiral Saito. Hirota, General Haya-
shi, and Admiral Osumi have been retained in the Ministries of Foreign
Affairs, Army, and Navy, respectively. Fumio Goto, Minister of Agricul-
ture in the last cabinet, has been shifted to the important post of
Minister of Home Affairs. Seven of the eleven Ministers (Admiral Okada
has temporarily assumed the portfolio of Overseas Affairs) including the
Premier are nonparty men, although one of them, Goto, is believed to have
Minseito leanings. There are two regular Minseito appointees and three
from a small dissident wing of the recalcitrant Seiyukai. Thus is con-
trived another "national" cabinet similar to Admiral Saito's and, in
reality, the only kind that has any chance of surviving in present day
Japan, even though the pendulum of public opinion is beginning to swing
back from the extremely nationalistic and antiparliamentary attitude of
a year or two ago. It can be justly considered a credit to the political
perspicacity of those powers before (not behind) the Throne in Japan.
The fact that the Government faces the probability of an upset at the
hands of the Seiyukai when the Diet meets next Jamuary is a problem that
can be handled when the time comes.
The assurance of a continuation of the Saito policies comes
mainly from the retention of the incumbents in the three most important
posts of the Government aside from the Premiership, namely. Foreign Af-
fairs. the Army. and the Navy. Hirota, a man of unusual detemination
and personality, has already made some headway in the difficult task of
solving Japan's international problems through peaceful means, despite
the interference and pressure constantly exerted upon the Foreign Office
by the armed services. General Hayashi, who last January succeeded the
argressive General Arakd at the War Office, is a man of fewer words than
the latter and seems to be inclined to direct the army's activities to
matters of national defense rather than to political questions. The
following excerpt from a statement made by him last April is illuminative
of his personal concept of his office.
"I will lend my full cooperation to Mr. Hirota, the
Foreign Minister, in his efforts to further friendly
-14850

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
relations with other nations. It is far from my intention
to enter into any quarrel with other countries. It is of
great importance for Japan to establish the friendliest
relations with all her neighbors and with all nations.
Any policy of isolation or of extremism following as a
result of the spirit of 'desperation' should be avoided
in our foreign relations at all costs."
Regardless of General Heyashi's personal predilections, howover, he is
subject to pressure from the younger officers in the army who have been
responsible for numerous incidents since the Kwantung Army seized lukden,
Manchuria, in September, 193l, and from the Kwantung Army itself which
does not always see eye to eye with the Government at Tokyo on rnatters
affecting Japanese policies on the northeastern Asiatic mainland. The
Kwantung Army's scheme (unsuccessful up to now) to reorganize the South
Manchuria Railway and its many allied economic enterprises as a part of
that army's ovm Special Service Section is an example of General Haya-
shi's problems from one direction.
Admiral Osumi, the Navy Minister, has never been a conspicu-
ous advocate of naval equality for Japan of the same caliber as Adrirel
Kanji Kato, Admiral Suetsugu. Commander in Chief of the Combined Fleet,
and Admiral Isoruku Yamamoto, who will be the ranking Japanese naval ex-
pert at the scheduled naval parley; but being a loyal navy man, he
wants, naturally, as big a navy for Japan as can be had. He, as well as
Admiral Okada, is knowm as a "political admiral" who has had more ad-
ministrative experience than sea duty and has not taken sides on the
London Naval Treaty. This latter fact makes Admiral Osumi acceptable
to the aggressive younger officers in the navy and enables him to act as
mediator between the two groups into which Japanese admirals appear to
be divided, i.e., those composed of uncompromising foes of the navel
limitation treaties, and those who have some realization of the financial
and international issues involved in the rejection of limitation. The
Prenier and the Navy Minister are believed to belong to the latter sroup,
despite their recent emphatic utterances on the subject of naval parity
for Japan, as reported in the press. The difficulties of their position
are exemplified in the recent meeting of 15 of the highest ranling naval
officers under the presidency of the Chief of the Naval General Staff,
H.I.H. Prince uahimi. No communique was issued afterward, but the pur-
pose of the meeting could only have been to impress the country with
the navy's detemination to carry out its program. On July 1, the press
reported that some 60 Japanese naval officers with rank of captain or
higher took the unprecedented step of submitting a petition to the Throne
through official channels, urging abrogation of the naval treaties and
the formation of a strong cabinet. The petition purported to represent
all naval ranks. Since the Chief of the Naval General Staff non has
direct access to the Throne, the petition may very well have gone to the
Emperor over the heads of the Navy Minister and the Premier.
Japan's lack of a concrete program during the recent prelimi-
nary naval disarmament conversations in London, which was the primary
cause of the adjournment of the talks until October, was probably due
to the struggle now going on between the moderates and the uxtrerifsts
in Japan as well as to the uncertain status of the Saito Government.
WIthin the week following the completion of his Cabinet on July 8, Pre-
mier Okada called a conference of the so-called "Big Five" Ministers
-14851-

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
including himself and the heads of the Foreign, War, Navy, and Finance
Offices for the purpose of formulating Japan's diplomatic and military
policies, with particular reference to the coming naval parleys. Ac-
cording to the press, Admiral Osumi declared at the conference thet the
navy was determined to claim parity, abrogation or revision of the
5-5-3 naval ratio, and the perfection of Japan's sea defenses against
external aggression. On July 20, the Government issued a vague general
statement of its foreign and domestic policies which indicated a course
little different from that of the Saito Cabinet. The statement expressed
support of the peaceful settlement of international disputes, backed by
adequate armaments, which is the principle adopted by Premier Saito's
five-Minister conference last October.
The most interesting development in Japan's campaign for naval
equality since the new Government came into power was Premier Okade's
interview with the forein presss on July 3l. The following questions
submitted by the correspondents at that time and the Premier's answers
throuh an interpreter, as reported both by the Associated Press and the
New York Herald-Tribune representatives, are illuminating. Only the
most pertinent for the purposes of this article have been selected.
Q. "What are the prospects for the naval conference?"
A. "To reduce the burden of taxation weighing down
upon the peoples of the world, naval armaments must be
reduced to the lowest possible extent. Naval limita-
tion must come by the reduction of armaments by the
most powerfully armed nations."
Q. "Will Japan ask for naval parity or reduction
by the most powerfully armed nations down to the
Japanese level?" A. "It is not in my mind to ex-
pect such a radical change so suddenly, but I can-
not favor the present ratio principle, which hurts
the self-respect of nations."
Q. "Does Japan intend to abrogate the Washington
Treaty?" A. "Whether it is better or not to abro-
gate the Washington Treaty is a matter under con-
sideration and not yet settled."
When asked to name a better system of naval limitation than the ratio
principle, the Premier said he hoped a better method would be discovered
but he was not in a position to make a statement on the subject.
Premier Okada's reference to the need for lifting the burden
of taxation from the world's peoples recalls his own action in l928,
when he was Minister of the Navy, in offering to cut the navy's funds to
any extent necessary for the nation's welfare -- this in sharp contrast
to other Ministers who were urging higher appropriations for their own
departments. The next remark quoted has been interpreted in the Ameri-
can press as indicating the Japanese do not necessarily mean "parity"
when they refer to "equality." which might be termed a distinction with-
out a difference. The Washington (or Five Power) Naval Treaty will ex-
pire on December 31, l936, provided one of the signatories gives notice
two years beforehand of intention to terminate it; otherwise it expires
two years from the date of any subsequent abrogation. The London Haval
-14852

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
Treaty of 1930 also expires on December 31, 1936, except for certain
provisions relating to aircraft carriers which extend throughout the
life of the l922 pact. The Foreign Office has thus far forestalled the
desire of naal extremists to give notice of abrogation before the re-
quired time. It is understood Hirota particularly wishes to avoid any
such action prfor to the London conversetions in October.
The whole interview breathed caution, undoubtedly evoked as
much by the necessities of the internal situation as by the desire to
protect Japan's position abroad. According to the press, however, it
met with the approval of naval circles.
In summing up the internal situation in Japan with reference
to the naval program, two opposing trends of opinion are discernible.
On the one hand, is a cabinet of moderate tendencies committed to a poli-
cy of peaceful settlement of international disputes. Two of the key men
in this Government, the Premier and the Navy Minister, are noted for
their ability to balance antagonistic elements, to mediate in difficult
isgues. Admiral Osumi, in particular, is characterized as clever, tact-
ful, obliging. intelligent, communicative -- qualities which will serve
him well in the future. A third key man is Fujii, the new Finance
Minister, who served as Vice Minister under his predecessor, Tatahashi,
and presumably is thoroughly in sympathy with the latter's policies of
moderate inflation and reduction of military expenditures. Renged be-
hind the cabinet are some of the most powerful men of the realm, namely,
the close advisers and associates of the Emperor who determined the com-
plexion of the present regime. These men are internationalists, liberals,
and supporters of a parliamentary government. Even before the cabinet
crisis they showed their temper by appointing the liberal Baron Dr. Ikki
as President of the Privy Council over the head of the incumbent Vice
President, Baron Hiranuma, fascist leader already mentioned, who ordi-
narily would have succeeded to the position. The moderates also have
the support of some of the most powerful industrialists.
On. the ether side, are found the naval extremists who stand
for naval parity and, failing that, would cast aside all limitation, re-
gardless of results. They are supported by part of the navy, most of
the army including the redoubtable General Arakd, all of the reactionary
societies, the great Mitsui financial house, part of the Seiyukai Party,
and a number of the biggest newspapers. These extremists in the navy
and the reactionaries or fascists undoubtedly would overthrow parlia-
mentarism entirely to gain their purposes; and it is their propaganda
which has created fear among the people of warlike intentions on the
part of the United States.
With this summation of the elements struggling for supremacy
in Japan, Hirota's trial balloons, such as a nonaggression pact with
the United States and the division of the Pacific between the latter and
Japan, are more understandable. The fact that the moderates are in the
ascendancy for the nonce lends a gleam of hope to an otherwise shadowed
international situation.
-14853-

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./80
SEE ...
FOR.
FROM
Japan
(GreN) DATED Aug.4.1934
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Resignation of Saito Cabinet and
formation of new cabinet under Premiership
Admiral Okada.
las
002

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.93)
mx.
INTEINSAL POLITICAL AFPAIRS6
(a)
On July 3 the long-amaited resigmation of the
Baito Cabinet took place am blee amd om July 4 Admdral
Okada, former Minister of the Bavy, was charged 
the Emperor with the formation of & new Crbinet* The
resignation of the Bnito C binet wus ane meinly to the
successive scendels in the Ministries of Communications,
Education
: and Finance"s:, hich 1nvolved Mesars
Nakajima, Ratoyama, and Kuroda, respectively, in breaches
of "official dlscipline". Behind this 1mmediate cause
for the resi:nation there wus - gemeral dissatisfastion
on the part of the public over what wes consid red the
indecisive, procrestinating poliay of the sinito Govern-
ment and this dissatisfaction pr bbly influenced the
Cabinet members in their decision to resign.
The principal reasons sdvenced for the appointment
of samir 1 Okads to head the new Cabinet sere that & nzval
sun was netded in view of the forthccmine v val Conferenee
and that & compromise candidate had to be chosen in order
the extreme p. triots or the
not to untagonise either
liberals  *. On July 8 the Cabinet of Premier Okada
was formally installed. The choice of Winisters was
cmerally
* Bmbasay's tolegrams No. 141, July 3, 4.. md 144 of
July 4, 1 p..
*: Bmbaaay's telegram Be. 24, February 9, 4 p..
*#* Monthly Bepert for Mareh, 1954.
: Mabassy's telegram No. 96, May 21, 4 p.m.
* mbassy's despateh No. 896 of July 18, 1934.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
gemerally sonsidered as am ihdieation that the relative
poliey of mederatiom of the Saite Gevernmemt would met be
abandoned. The Cabinet as finally composed is as fallews:**
Premier:
Admiral Keisake Okada, on the retired
list of the Jupanese Navy nd Bavy Minister
in two proceding Cabinets.
Minister for Foreign Affairs: Mr. Koki Hirota,
a career diplomatic officer and Poreign
Minister in the preceding Cabinet.
Finance Kinister: Mr. Sadanobu Pujii, : career
official of the Finance Ministry and for a
short period Vice Minister of Finance in the
preceding Cabinet.
War Minister: Gemeral Senjuro Hayashi, on the active
list of the Japanese Army and War Minister
in the preceding Cabinet.
Navy Minister: Admiral Mineo Osumi, on the active
List of the Japanese avy and Navy Minister is
the preceding Cabinet.
Minister for Home Affairs: Mr. Pumie Goto, a nom-
party statesman and Minister for Agri-
culture in the preceding Cabinet.
Justice Minister: Mr. Naoshi Obara, & career official
of the Justice Ministry and former Chief
Judge of the Tokyo Court of Appeals.
Edacation Minister: Mr. Genji Matsuda, & promimemt
member of the Minseito and once Minister
for Overseas Affairs.
Minister for Commerce and Industry: Mr. Chuji Machida,
* prominemt member of the kinseito and
Minister for Agrioulture in two preseding
Cabimets.
Mimister for Communieatioms: Mr. Takejiro Tokomami,
formerly a prominemt member of the Seiyakai
(new expelled) amd Minister for Mome Affairs
in two preeeding Cabimets.
Mistater
* hoay'e despa tah No. Lr ar Jaly 6, I0s4.
So. 806 of July 18, 1934.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
31
Minister for Agrieulture and Perestry: Mr. Tatanme-
pake Yamasakd, fermerly of the Seiyakai
(now expelled).
Minister for Railways: Hr. Shimya Uehida, formerly
of the Seiyukai (now expelled)
Minister for Overseas Affairs: Held concurrently
with position of Premier by Admiral Okada.
Tme statement of policy of the Okada Cabinet, which
was not issued until July 20, contained nothing new and little
of specific interest, consisting mainly of generalities and
promising implicitly to meet the desires of all secters of
the Japanese nation, the Army, the Wavy, the berals, the
rural population, the working classes in cities ond towns,
and the industrialists. This statement of policy, as pub-
lished by  JAPA ADVERTISE of July 21, 1s uoted below:
* The country is now face to face with an extremely
complieated situation in polities, foreism relatiems,
fimance, sconomics, and thought, but the Goverm-
memt will devote itself to the establishment of fair
and just measures to meet these situatioms, hoping
for the cpoperation of the natiom.
" The Gevernment announees us follows the fundamentals
of the polieies it will pursue:
" 1. The Government believes that seremity and fair-
ness of admimistration are essential to the
proeurement for the Government of the faith of
the maticm, and therefere it will parify poll-
ties and enforee offisial diseipline strietly,
at the same time rectifying the evils thas
formerly were present in cemtral and leeal admimis-
tratioms. Thms it hopes to awakem the natiem
to the true fumetioming of constitutiomal admimis-
tration, therely ecmtributing to the advaneement
of matiomal welfare.
* 2. The Govermmemt intends to fester the Natiemal
Spirit and pariry the thenght of the natiam hy
adhering to the spirit of the Imperial Reseripts
cranted the matian by making cleer the mationel
states to the miad of the peeple, the canses of
damgerems thenght will be elininated.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.94)
32
The Gevemmens aal1 endeaver to Lasure inter-
veting amieable relations with foredgm Pewers,
the Severnment iatends to accomplisk everything
that the existing position of J pan requires, and
will leave nothing undome for the falrillmemt
of the missiom that is Japem's.
r4.
National defense is  indispensable factor
in the existence of mations, and the Gevernment
will endearor to substantiate defemse measures
t meet the demands of the time and the going
state of affairs mong the Powers. In the
comine disarmament negotiations, the Geverament
will exert every effort for the assuranee of
n&tional safety through fair and justifiable
means.
The Government believes that reinforeement
of th found&tions of State finence is of para-
mount importance in this eventfal peried in both
foreign and domestie affairs. Considerable
difficulty is of course to be anticipated in
restoring Stste finnce to normal because of
the present extraordinary circumstances, but every
endervor will be made by the Governmemt toward
improvemant of national resources, thereby re-
sto: ing the ecuilibrine of income und outge.
.
Stabilization of the mmans of livelibood for
everyome requires the most urgmt attention,
plexity of the domestic ecemomic problems, and
because of the peeuliar trend of intermational
ecomomics, the Severememat knows it mast make
plams to meet mamy sitmatiams and take all the
nemt will andeaver to alevate the living condi-
tiens of the mation md will partioularly devete
1tself to improvement in the conditiom of the
rural pepulations engaged in farmins, fishing
and ferestry, at the same time emdeavoring to
populatiom.
7.
The Gevesament sees the neeessity of paying
tries, develegment at netarel resourees and ad-
toward insreased

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.95)
33
parallel with mhemeement of the physieal
culture of the matiom. Careful comsideration
will be paid to the edmeational systems.
9.
The Governmemt recugnises that amity betweem
J: pam mad Manchukue is making & tremendous
contribution toward peaee in the Par East, and
the Government is determined to collaberate with
the Empire of Mamchukue for the wholesome develep-
ment of that Empire, and, acting en the basie
principle of matual assistance and mmtual beme-
fit, endeavor to harvest en optimistic r sult.
10.
The Gevernment reeognises the nesessity ef paying
careful attentiom to the mechanimm and funetioms
of the ogans of administratiom so as to insure
fairness and promptitude in governmemtal umder-
takings in order to make them more adequately cope
with the reguirements of the State and the de-
sires of the nation by keeping pase with the daily
business of the publie. Consequently, the Goverm-
ent intemds to make a thoroughgoing stady of the
means of improving the entire range of administre-
tive organn."
The poliey of the new Government as announced was re-
ceived with indifference by the public and with skepticism,
even with sareas, by most of the newspapers. The Tokyo
NICHI WICHI of July 22 observes that most of the points in
the Cabinet's platfors have been enunciated by previous
Cabinets, remarks that no one could possibly objeet to these
items, and doubts that the Government will be able te har-
monise the duty of defending the nation with international
peace, fiaaneial conditions, and stabilisatien of the life
of the people. The ASaHI sHIMBUN of July £1 states that
finunciai cireles were greatly disappointed with the Cabinet's
amoumeement, partioularly with the abeemee of any definite
declaratiom regarding fars relief measures. The AsanI sMms
of the folloming day attasks the statemmt as hasy and states
that the pletesm af the Goverament 1s coe that overy

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.94)
34
te the . The   uy 2 is  the
epiniem that to seck realisattem of matiemal pelicies threugh
diplommey and at the same time to strengthen matiomal defamse
is "right and fair" bmt that as a peliey for m mergmey
Cabinet it 1s "deplorably weak". Both the JIJI and the
YOMIURI ere conserned more with speculation as to the new
Ministry's capacity to curry out its declarations than with
the declarations themselves. The CHUGAI, more sympathetie
'n its t:1tude, states that the new Csbinet has not bem
given & chance to test its capacities and believes that it
will make efforts to bring about the realisatiom of the
policy as declared. THE JAPAN TIMMS, alse sympathetie, mVs
that "a cabinet whioh is avowedly an extensiom of the former
government cannot be expected to state anything startlingly
new", and that it is not fair to criticise the Okada C binet
until it has been iven a fair trial.
Reference is made to Sections III (b) and III (c) of
this report for the attitude of the Mouse of Peers and of
the Seiyukai toward the Okade Cabinet.
Two Five-Minister Conferenses were held after the
forming of the mew Cabinet, the Minister: consisting of the
Premier and the Fereiga, Mavy, Army, and Finanee Ministers.
However, the mewspapers reperted that, since Premier Okada
was said to dislike the ides of exeluding eertaim members of
the C: bimet frem diseussioms of impertemt problems, the
five Ministers cemeermed had @sided t diseomtimme these
ocmferemees.
Duse maialy to the retentiem of Mr. Hirote, Gemeral
Layashd, and Admiral Gommé in the presant Cabinet, it is
smerally belleved that the fature fereign poliey of the

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.95)
35
Gevermment will fellew alone the some lines as the fareigm
pelley, 1f meh it ean be ealled, of the Baite Govermment.
With regard to charges of eorraptiom against variems
members of the fereer Cabinet, Barem Nakajima mas om July 22
remanded to jail pending trial on the charge that he had
accepted bribes while he was Minister of Communientions,
and the press r ported that Mr. Mitsuchi, Minister of Rail-
ways under the Saito régime, would be summoned in conneetiom
with the sume sondal.
(b) Political Parties.
The Okada Cabinet has the support, at present, of the
Minseito but is opoosed by the Seiyukai, the majority party
in the last Diet. The ro sons generally given for the
alienation of the Seiyukai ron the present Ministry and its
consequent refusal to su ort the Government or to participate
in the Cabinet &re the following: that Admiral Okada consulted
the Minseito Party concerning participation in his Cabinet
before he consilted the Beiyukai; that when he sventually
approached the Seiyukai leaders, Admiral Okada named the pests
available to the Party instead of inquiring what posts the
Party would like to fill; and that Dr. Sumuki, President
of the Belyukai, aspired to the pertfolio of Home Minister,
which was actually given to Mr. Gote , whe had been Minister
for Agrioulture in the Saite Cabimet. Whatever the
reasems may have been for the Seiyukai's disaffectien, this
Party expelled Messrs Tokonami, Yamasaki, and Uohida from its
renks when they ac: epted the posts of Minister for Commumi-
eations, Minister for Agriemltare and Perestry, and Minister
fer Railmays, respeetively, in the new Cabinet. It will be
remembered that for some time Hr. Tobemani hes beem the
10

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.93)
36
leader of a tacttem of the Solyakai eppesed to 1ts
President, De. Sasmkd. It is stated by the press that
Mr. Tokomami and his followers, about thirty in mumber,
will either ccoperate closely with the Winsieto or merge
with that Party to ferm & new political party. Meanmhile
the Minseito has, according to most reports, lost no tim
in taking advantage of the conflict between the Okada Cabinet
and the Seiyukai to attempt to gain political supremacy.
This Party agreed to sup ort the new Cabinet shortly after
Admiral Okade's appointment and as : conse uence received
two pertfolios, those of Education Minister ( Mr. Genj1
Matsuda) and Minister for Commerce and Industry (Mr. Chuji
Machida). Mr. Machida is well-knom for baving seconded
Er. Tokonsmi in pleading for & coalition of the Minseite
and the Beiyukai during the last session of the Diet. The
Miaseito stated its desire for the appointment of 10 members
of the Party as parliamentary vice-ministers and parliamentary
counselers instead of the 8 members who held these positions
under the S: 1to Governmemt. When the perliamentary counselors
were finally selected, on April 19, the Minseite received
9 of these posts, the Seiyukai 9, and the House of Peers 6.
The seletiom represented an inerease of me official for the
Minseito and & deerease of one for the Seiyukal, as compared
with the aligomemt wmder the Saito régime . The Beiyukai
Party premptly expelled the nine nembers who had sccepted
pests as parliamentary viee-sinisters nd parliamentary
ooumselers.
Aecerdins to the mewspapers, there is a possibility
that Premier Ghade will convoke the Diet and then dissolve
it md eall a pmeral alectiem in am affort te obtain a
Governmsnt majerity in thet bety. The JAPA Aavmmrza
X

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.92)
37
of July 14 states that 1f general eleetiems are held, the
Minseito hepes to beesme the majerity party in the Biot.
At the same time, it is reported that the Seiyekai wants
the convocation of e spesial sessi:n of the Diet in order
that it may submit & bill of laek of cnficence in the
Cebinet, and alearly demonstrate its polit ca: supremaey
n tht ensuing eleetion.
(c) HO  P
Aocordin, to press roports, kee, resentment was felt
by the House of Peers over the failure of Premier Okada
to apooint any of its embers to his Cabinet. The Tokye
MICHI MICHI of July s0 ywoted. le der of the House of Peers
as having s.id thst the Premier "showed, noeful lack of
respmet for the House of Peers whe he (tu not try to take
Peers into his C,binet, but instead offeret posts as par-
1: at y vice-ministers to mombers of the Sonkyukai and
Koseikai, two of the sost influential groups in the House
of Peers". This resentmtmt is said to have been the reasom
for the deliberate indifference displayed by the Pears
whem the Okada Cabinet's representativesapproached them
with an offer of anpointmente to the secondary positions of
parliamentary vioe-ministers and parliamentery couns alors.
The Peers are reperted te have felt further slighted by
the fast that the Gkade Cabinet did mot offer them these
secendary appeintments matil the last mimate and did not
interview at first the resomised old leaders of the
Remigatai and the Kesed kai, but the independent younger groups.
six members of the Eeuse of Peere were finally appointed
as parlienemtesy viee-siaisters and parliamentary counselers
and these mem are reputed to wield little influemee in the
Boase of Peers. Lecerding to Te JaPan AsmrIsm of Jaly Rt,

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.95)
38
corment sathered fron the Peses by hange cantained erl-
tieim of the lae of any mention in the new Cabinet's
platferm of the convocation of & special Diet sessiom.
(a) t.
Por several months there had been insistent demands
for the calling of a mpecial session of the Diet for the
mactment of relief metsures to 1o the farming po ulatiom,
and the advemt of a new cabinet geve impetus to these
demands. In fct, one of the principal criticisms of the
Okads statement of poliey was that no provision was made
thereim for either the convoking of s special Diet session
or for the relief of the furmers. In response to these
demands end this criticism, Premier Okada is reported y
THE JAPA AlVERTISER f July 2& to heve made the following
curt statement:
 I note the clamor for a special Diet session to
discuss agrarian problems. But before I cam commit
myself I must have & conerete program for the relief
of conditions  mong the agricultural population.
I will consider calling = session whon I have com-
pleted plans, and there will be & session if I see
the need for it.
(0) Astivities of Resationary Sosistisa.
THE JAPA ADVERTIBER of July 13 reported that the
poliee had on July 17 raided the hecdcuarters of the East
Asia Saprsmmey Society and arrested four mer said to
have beem aetively engaged in & plot to assassinate aembers
of the Okade Cabinet. The JIJI stated that the re ctiomary
society in question had been orgsnized in Jammery, 1934,
by cme Masae Okubo, whose plan was to mge a campeign of
bloodshed similar te thet earried on by the assassins
of Promier Imiai.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.95)
39
(ee)
A natiomal defemse "state poliey" prepared by the
higher officials of the Army was submitted to Premier
Okuda by General Hayashi, Minister of Wer. The principal
items with which the Army's platforr deals re, ccording
to the ASiHI AI BUN of July 1:, the following:
(1) Internatiox. 1 rulations- measures to deal with the
forthcomiug evel c nfer nce nd with J: pun's formal with-
urawal from the League of Nations.
(:) Domertic roblems - no sures designee for the
"ancouragexent of the eo le nc the stabilization of the
popular xind in the exergency situation'; relief of the
luwer classes ("cl sses belo" the widcle cl rsr., parti-
cul rly the f rmerr; r form f the educttional system;
"thought roblems"; cificial ciscipline.
(3) The lunchurien Issue- the strengthenin: of the
triple eyst of Japanese utnority in nchurie end the
Kwantung Leased Territory, the three heads of suthority
being the Comsander of the Kwantung Army Gorrison (who
1s, incidentally, for reasons of convenience, J-punese
Ambass&dor to "Lanchuruo", the Governor or the Kwantung
Loased Territory, and the President of the South Manchuria
Railway; the abolishment of extraterritori:lity; the problem
of transferring administrative rights in the South Man-
chmria Railmmy Zone to "Mamehmimo"; the problem of double
natiomality of Japanese residents of "Yanchukue".
(4) Armasent expansien- the replenishment of the
standing army and the development of the aviation cerps.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.96)
40
In July, the Mimistry of War institated a series
of meetings for the disenssiom of the Army budget for
1935-86. The YOMIURI MNINBON and the ABANI SHIMBUW
expect a subetantial inerease in the War Ministry's budget
for the year-la3b- B, the former newspaper believing that
it will excend ¥ 500,000,000, due mainly to the proposed
enlarkement of the Army Air Corps. In this connection, the
AcAlHI SHImBUN of July  contained the followiny curious
statement: "Because the Army has heretofore refrained from
¿sking for adoquate expenditures due to finuncial conditioms,
the cowing budget is expected to reach & considerable in-
cro. se".
The press reports that the resommendations for the regular
semi-annual promotions and shifts in the personnel of the
Army have beem decided upon and that & formal an ouncement
of the changes will be made om August 1 after General
Hayashi nas obtained the sanction of the Emperor. Ac-
cording to the AßAHI SHImUM of July 19, among the shifts
in the higher-ranking positions cre the following: Gemeral
Imane Matsul, Cemmender of the Formosan Garrison, and
Gemeral Yeshiyuki Kawashima, Commander of the Koreen
Garrisom, to be appeinted members of the Suprene Military
Council; Lieutenant-Ceneral Kemkichi Ueda, Assistamt
Chief of the General Staff, to be appointed Commander of
the Korean Garrisom; Lientenant-Gemeral Hajime Sugiyama,
Chief of the Aviatiom Baresm, to be appointed Assistant
Chief of the Gemeral Staff; aad Lientenant-General
Leisake Yanagame, Vies-Mimister of War, to be appointed
Chief of the Pirst Bivision.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.90)
41
Ay adr defemse meemvres mere held & Osaka, 
Indmstrial emter of Japm, on July 26, 27, und 26. Navy
bembers attasbed Osaks and the sarroumding districts and
were "repalsed" by army pi anes, and anti-aircrsft guns, the
citisens corps 1ains in the defense.
(r) Dn
Admiral Osumi, the kinister of the savy, is
credited by the Obak zAINICHI of July 14 =s hr vin: stated
that he oulc not remain with the Okade . tinet ir even
the smsllest .Iteration should be mede in the two funda-
mental principles of naval poliey dopteu curin. the S: ito
rgime, namely, the -brogetion of th. existine 5:5:? nivel
ratio nd the com:letion of the rem ininf part of the firet
roplenishment lan ac of the entire secone  I i chrent
plan. The ress re ortec that on July , in trial noeun
reminiscent of the recent par:: ge of the trericin fleet
through the n me C.nal, the Jiprnese Combined Plect
consistinr of Bs  rships bu p sree through Sriaonoseki
straits, between thimonoseki tnd -oji, in the sp&ce of one
hour end forty minutes.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Wothing to report.
Imbessy's despateh Ne. 805 of July 17, 1934.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/250
#918
894.00/534
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Aug.3, 1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
(Okada)
REGARDING:
Statement of policy of the new/Cabinet.
Encloses copy of - and comments thereon.
W1

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECBELORY
DIVISION OFFAR EAST
AFFAIRS
0619 1934
AHIMENTUESIE
Tokyo's No. 943, August 24, 1934:
The Embassy describes in considerable
detail the question which has been agitating
the Japanese during the entire summer --
centralising Japanese control and administra-
tion of "Manchukuo". It will be recalled that
there are now three principal Japanese
organizations in Manchuria, all theoretically
indepondent of each other: The Embassy at
Hsinking, the Kwantung Army, and the Govern-
ment of Kwantung, General Hishikari being
Commander of the Kwantung Army as well as
Ambassador.
With a view to unifying control, it was
proposed by the Army that the Ambassador
assume control over the Kwantung Government,
so that he would have the powers of a viceroy,
and that he should be responsible to the
Japanese Prime Minister in regard to all the
matters under his governance -- administrative,
diplomatic and military -- rather than to
the Foreign Minister in regard to diplomatic
matters and to the War Office in regard to
military matters.
This

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
This proposal has been ardently opposed
by the Foreign Office for the obvious reason
that it would be incompatible with Japan's
contention that "Manchukuo" is an independent
'istate.
Press despatohes from Tokyo report that
compromise has been reached: the Ambassador
will continue to be responsible to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs in regard to
diplomatic matters and, in his other capacity
as Commander of the Kwantung Army, he will
report to the War Office on military matters.
The Office of Governor of Kwantung will be
abolished, and the duties of that office will
be carried out by a "Secretary-General to
the Ambassador", who will have charge of the
administration of the Kwantung Leased
Territory and the Railway Zone. The press
reports that a promise has been given to the
Army to give consideration to the appointment
of an army officer as "Secretary-General to
the Ambassador".
I assume that the Embassy will submit a
supplementary report, describing the arrange-
ment finally agreed upon.
The subject is an important one, as re-
vealing the pressure being exerted by the
Japanese Army for Japan to move towards open
admission of the true status of "Manchukuo".
FEUHLDLY
894002/251

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
A-SC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
: Tokyo, August 24, 1934.
No. 943.
Subject:
Japanese Cabinet Ministers Disagree Over
Control of Representation in Manchuria.
REGD
3
AB EASTERN AFFAIRS
5
EP·10.1934
S'S
Wd
E O
894.002/251
894
bor
Ches
Oade
Yer
ONI
MID
The Honorable
The Cecratory of State,
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I.ANDM.I.D
Voshington.
OCT 10 1934
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to renort that  erious dis-
agreement amears to be develoning in the Jananese
Cabinet over the cuestion of the future J: panese re-
presentation in "Manchukuo" and the administration
of Japanese official organizations in Manchuria. There
have been many discussions during the closing weeks
of the Saito Cabinet's regime, as well as since Premier
Okada formed his Cabinet, concerning the best way to
unify administrative control of the Kwantung Leased
Territory, the South Manchuria Railway, the Kwantung
Army

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Army Garrison and commercial activities connected with
the South Manchuria Railway, and to decide what relation
that
administration shoulo have with the dinlomatic
mission to "enchulcuo". The ur inistry has been
cetive in romotin trese aiscussions for the purpose
of trvio to con: olio te J nanese adminictration in
anchuria no or  cicl r prese t tion to the "ianchuluo"
Goverment und r its : uthority. Goner 1 oyashi's efforts
in that direction ere out in in the Poliiical neport
for the month of July . However, it  mears that he has
h:d little su cess thus far, owins to the onoosition
of both the Foreign and Overseas Ministries.
The prerent renresentalion-aonini tration system,
which peoms to be uns: tisfactory to :1l three inistries,
gives the Foreign Office the least control. The Com-
manuer in Chief of the Kw: ntung Army is t the same time
Ambase dor to "a: nchukuo"; The Kwentung Le sed Terri-
tory and the South manchuria Rrilway are administrated
by the Overseas Ministry, although the Kwantung Army
has some control over the South onchuria Hailway Zone;
and diplom tic relations with "Manchukuo" are really
carried on by the War Ministry.
It has been proposed by the har Ministry to appoint
a special Plenipotentiary to Manchuria who would assume
all diplomatic and administrative functions, with a
Secretary-General under him to attend to the economic
and police phases of the administration. This special
kind of Ambassador would not be placed under the Foreign
Ministry

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Ministry, but would be directly responsible to the
Prime Minister.
In reply to the objections to that plan raised
by the Foreign Office the NICHI NICHI of August 11
quoted the War Ministry's reasons for advocating the
single control, with the dual function of diplomacy
and administration, as follows:
1. Japan and "Manchukuo" having special rela-
tions and identical interests, it is Japan's policy
to complete the co-existence and co-prosperity of the
two countries. In order to ca ry out that policy it is
but natural that the office of Amb: ssador Plenipotentiary
in Manchuria be placed under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister. It is not of a nature to be entrusted
solely to resoonsibility of the Foreign inister.
S. As the ourely diplomatic business which the
Ambassador will hove to handle vill be very limited,
it is only natural then that the Ambessador, whose work
will be elosely connected with industrial development,
economic and railway matters, should be pl ced under the
direct supervision of the Prime Minister.
3. Since "Manchukuo" is a bona fide independent
state, it is of course proposed to have the highest
Japanese organ in Manchuria headed by an overseas envoy.
But in order to distinguish this particular envoy, who will
be under the direct charge of the Prime Minister, from
ordinary envoys, the Army desires that he be named
"Plenipotentiary in Manchuria". However, it states, if
that title is objectionable the title "Ambassador in Man-
churia" will be acceptable.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
4. The opposition of the Foreign Office to the
plan is based on the (uestion of the rights and nowers
of a single inistry, which is not concerned, from
the broader oint of view, vit the ex cution of Janan-
"Monchukuo" ct t olicy.
E. The r Ofrice ronor  th: t ciolomacy be ol ced
und r the Forei n Orice as herctofore, but that the basic
cuertions in oneral b
ut uner the cirect charge of
the Prime Minister in ore r thet there will arise no
quarrels for power betvcen the mini tries in the future.
Ihile the Forcin ano lar Lepartments agrec on
control by a single orgun in anchuria, with dual powers,
the iar Office insirts that control should not emanate
from ny one inistry or from coveral ini tric, ccording
tothe AfAHI SHI BUN of August 14, but should be exercised
by the Prenir who will report to the rmperor.
The Foreign
Office, on the other hane, voints out that there is no
precedent for lacin the proposed envoy under the Prime
Minister, anc that in accordance with international custom
and usage an Ambass dor under the c ntrol of the Foreign
Office must be aooointed. The Foreign inister protested
that the sort of envoy oroposed by the var Office Would in
effect be more like a Governor-General or High Comnission-
er than like a diplomatic envoy, and that if Jtpan wishes
to be successful in seeking the powers' recognition of
"Manchukuo" it must do nothing that might be construed
as an infringement upon "Manchukuo's" sovereignty. The
Foreign Uffice has decided to insist that the War Office
Dlan

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.90)
-5-
plan should be abandoned if the honor of "Manchukuo"
is to be respected nd the new state assisted to develop
as an indenendent nation. The Foreign Office annears
to be vil'in to  n ort th t o rt ot the var office's
lin  in i1 r t tue  be cor cbeidiry o. ers
to   tt teut court lway, the kwan-
tunaor
rt  Governor, the
incurtri:l au cou rcial cctivitier in which the J: na-
se urnt  trt, oth rreooiciters,
in co r ti . it the J: an-" nchuhuo" economic
coureil :ne the inuuntrisl ne  conomic bureau of un-
churi: to b tormed 1: ter, : 1l of vhich will be ad-
ministr teo  the mb  or ho ill r port to the
re irtr t.ovr, h eil tic tetus
ane runetione oule r  in rueer the lorcign inister.
The overee oietry le  lso  v neeo ite cone-
what con lie: ted 1  for renrecentetion ne  oninistra-
tion in  nchuria. In general it agreer vith the Foreign
Office plan, but it rovides that the Ky' ntung Leased
Torritory ren in umoor its owm control. though ecminis-
trated by the ci lom tic envoy. In adminirtrative
wotters the Amb: cs: oor ould tuke or ors from the Over-
seas inictry on colonial affairs, fren the Foreign
Office on diplom: tic affairs, irom the Emperor through
the Premier on ad inistrative affairs of volice, r ilway
and economic matters, and from the War Hinistry on
purely military affairs. The Foreign Office maintains,
however, according to the ASAHI, that to place the local
Governor

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Governor of the Kwantung Territory under the super-
vision of the diplomatic representative would be to
ignore international usage. He should therefore be
placed under the supervision of the Overseas Ministry.
Various plans have been submitted by the three
Ministries in an effort to arrive at an agreement.
Earlier ones have been modified and accord has been
reached on several main points. However. while the
Overseas and Foreign Ministries are nearly agreed upon
a plan for so-called "dual representation" in Manchuria,
the War Office is still in disagreement. The press ob-
serves that the dispute between the Foreign and War
Uffices is assuming serious oroportions. Both admit
that they must reach an agreement, yet each considers
its stand based on fundamentals that it cannot allow
to be infringed. Moreover, there was a strong sug-
gestion, attributed by the press to the War Ministry,
that the Overseas Ministry be abolished on the grounds
that the Kwantung Leased Territory, the South Man-
churia Railway and Japanese economic activities in Man-
churia should be administered by the supreme Plenipo-
tentiary or Ambassador under the direct supervision of
the Prime Minister, thus eliminating most of the necessity
for an Overseas Ministry. It was subsequently reported,
however, that the Cabinet would not abolish that Ministry,
indicating that the purely colonial matters in Manchuria
would continue to be supervised by the Overseas Office.
A

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
-7
A further development calculated to complicate the
representation-administration in Manchuria is the opposition
of the Kwantung Government staff to both the War and
Foreign Office plans for reform in Manchuria. According
to the ADVERTISER of August 18 those officers
threatened
to resign en bloc if either plan were put into effect.
Kwantung officials want clearer distinction between
diplomatic, administrative and military missions,
and advocate a supreme Japanese Administration to be
located at Hsingking. That body would anpoint an adminis-
trator who would have diplomatic, military and civil
powers, would supervise the South Manchuria Railway and
direct the important policies connected with economic
development of "Manchukuo". Civil government in the
Leased Territory would be continued under the Kwantung
officials' plan. The activities of the Foreign Office
would then be limited to diplomatic form: lities.
From indications in the several press articles
and news agenciest reports it anpears that the Foreign
Ministerwill maintain his stand that in order not to
undo all of his work in promoting recognition of "Man-
chukuo" the representative to that country must be
diplomatic, whether or not he may also exercise adminis-
trative functions. The War Office seems equally firm
in maintaining that the Premier and to a degree the Army
should have control over the administrative matters,
which do not concern the Foreign Office, and since it is
agreed to allow the Officer in command of the Kwantung
garrison

=== Page 351 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-
garrison to combine the function of Ambassador (the Foreign
Office observes that that was to be a temporary measure)
he should be the supreme representative, and should not
be under Foreign Office supervision.
The altercation between the three Ministries is of
great interest in that the outcome will be a good in-
dication of the future policy of the Japanese Government;
shall the Military continue to exercise the dominant in-
fluence in external policies, or shall the Foreign Office
consolidate its position vhich has been gaining the as-
cendency of late, and control the anchurien representa-
tion question?
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
MNH:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 14, 1934.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1005, dated
October 10, 1934:
The Embassy describes the agreement
reached by the Cabinet over the reform of
Japanese administration in "Manchukuo" --
a problem which has aroused considerable
agitation among the public and acrimony between
the Government departments. The plan, as
adopted, seems to be a signal victory for
the Army, and a defeat for the Foreign and
Overseas Ministries. It has yet to receive
the approval of the Frivy Council and Diet,
and may be further amended.
Hithertofore there have been three
principal Japanese administrative organiza-
tions in Manchuria, all theoretically in-
dependent of each other: the Embassy at
Hsinking, the Government of Kwantung, and
the Kwantung Army, General Hishikari being
Commander of the Kwantung Army as well as
Ambassador.
The new plan is substantially as
follows: The triple system of control shall
be changed to a dual system, whereby all
authority

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
authority shall be exercised through the
Ambassador and Commander-in-Chief of the
Kwantung Army. However, these two posts
will be held by one man, who will be an
Army officer. He will be responsible
directly to the Premier, although respon-
sible in a limited degree to the Foreign
Minister, and will have supervision over
all Japanese interests in Manchuria, includ-
ing the Kwantung Government and the S.M.R.
In Tokyo a new Manchurian Affairs
Bureau will be established as a Cabinet
bureau directly responsible to the Premier.
As the chief of this Bureau is to be of
"Shinnin" rank, it amounts virtually to
the creation of a new Cabinet portfolio.
Incidentally, an Army man is to head this
Bureau.
The decision is interesting and
important. It demonstrates that the
Military are still absolute in matters of
policy; that the Army is determined to brook
no interference from the civilian government
in Manchurian matters; and most important,
that it reveals the pressure of the Army
toward making an actual dependency of the
"Independent Empire of Manchukuo".
2.
FE:WTT/DLY
894.002/252

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 10, 1934.
No. 1005.
Subject:
Japanese Representation in Manchuria
to Remain under Control of Military.
L
894.002
7E1
Divisien of
F EASTERN AFFAIRS
894c.01
ATE
NUV 5 - 1934
M11 21
COIATIONS
1
S.
ND DS
USAIO
5
DEPATH
4 NV 3
For Distribution Check
Yes
No
894.002/252
Grade
T011.1
For
In U S A.
CONFIDENTIAL
2150
DEPAREMENT OF STATE
COPTO
ASBISTANT SECKETARY
NAD.I.D.
OF STATE
A6C
Jonorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
894.002/251
No. 943 of August 24, 1934, regarding the disagreement
in the Japanese Cabinet over the change in representatio
EC131934
FILED
and administration in Manchuria, and to report that an
agreement has finally been reached between the several
Cabinet members concerned. The final accord, decided by
unanimous ballot, was immediately acclaimed by the press
as a signal victory for the Army, as the new plan embodies
most of the demands of the War Ministry and sacrifices
221

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
all but a few of those suggested by the Foreim and
Overseas Ministries. However, although the Cabinet
has agreed on the plan, which Premier Okada presented
as embodying certain concessions on all sides, the con-
troversy does not appear to be settled. Considerable
adverse comment has been heard, and many editorials
have appeared voicing as strong opinions as they dare
that aimiristration of Manc uria by the Army will not
prove successful. Moreover, the Foreign and Overseas
Ministries have not given up the fight although their
Ministers have agreed to Army control of Japanese organs
in Manchuria. The very existence of the Overseas Minis-
try is threatened, in spite of the Premier's repeated
denial that the Government intends to abolish that port-
folio. In Kwantung, the officials of the civil Govern-
ment are still protesting volubly against the proposed
plan, and some six hundred of them including high offi-
cials presented their resignations. They were prevailed
upon to reconsider, but are still very dissatisfied and
may carry out their intention to resign later. The civil
police of the Kwantung administration, who will now be
placed under Army control instead of the Overseas Ministry,
have made more serious threats. Bloodshed has been threa-
tened, according to the press, if the Cabinet insists on
enforcing that part of the new plan which provides that
the Chief of the Military Gendarmerie will also head the
civil police in the Kwantung Leased Territory. Although
police

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
police resignations have been refused once, there is
serious agitation, according to the JAPAN TIMES on the
part of police officials to insist on their resignations
being accepted. The Premier, in his capacity as Overseas
Minister, has been appealed to so strongly that he has
promised to review the whole plan in an effort to provice
against complete absorption of the civil by the military
officials in the Kwantung and South Manchuria Railway
districts.*
Newspaper editorials term the reform of administra-
tion in Manc uria one of Premier Okada's knottiest problems.
All during the difficult negotiations, which were character-
ized by the Army's obdurate st nd, the press observed that
probabilities of arriving at an agreement were daily be-
coming less promising. The Army officials refused to
yield an inch, believing that inasmuch as they had "fought
and bled to save Manchuria", and that civil administration
was equivalent to control by corrupt political parties,
they were the ones indicated to guide the future develop-
ment of the new country, and that only they understood the
situation there. The Foreign Office, of course, reiterated
its stand that if "Manchukuo" were to be considered an in-
dependent country the Japanese representative must be un-
der its control, and not an official comparable to a Colonial
Governor. The Overseas Office, seeing all of its control
over the administrative organs in Manchuria slipping away,
voiced loud protests against the Army attempting to assume
administrative functions for which there was no precedent.
The effectiveness of its protests, was however, greatly
minimized because there is no Overseas Minister as yet to
fight
*Bee Despatch to this Embassy from Dairen dated Beptember
21, 1934, on Reorganization Plan.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
fight its battles; the portfolio being held concur-
rently by the Premier.
Inasmuch as the situation was becoming increasingly
more delicate, a solution had to be found, if only of
a temporary nuture. Pressure from all sides was brought
to bear. The supreme Military Council discussed the
various reform plans, the Genro's advice was sought,
technical experts were summoned to contrive a workable
compromise, and Vice Ministers and Section Chiefs met
repeatedly in an effort to evolve a plan for reorganizing
the administrative control in Manchuria as well as to
determine what sort of representative Japan should have
in the new "Empire of Manchukuo". To avoid further
friction the Cabinet refrained from meeting over the
problem until the members were ready to come to some de-
cision. Finally Premier Okada gathered all the reins
in his own hands, called the Cabinet together and pre-
sented it with a compromise plan which embodied vir-
tually all of the Army's demands. The plan was adopted
by unaimous vote, and the Cabinet had accomplished some-
thing. At least some of the newspapers congratulated
the Premier for having brought about an agreement at all,
even if it is only temporary.
The plan has now to receive the approval of the Privy
Council and then be presented before the extraordinary
session of the Diet for its approval. It is reported
that the Diet session may take place during the last
half of November, and another sharp struggle is antici-
pated. Foreign Office and especially Overseas Ministry
supporters

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
supporters in the Diet are expected to join with the
anti-military bloc in attempting to modify the reform
plan. But the opinion of military sympathizers seems
to be that the Army will again succeed in forcing most
of its demands through. It is eager to put the new
plan into operation to avoid further dissension in
Manchuria, and urges that the original plan of putting
the reform into effect next spring be advanced to Novem-
ber or December of this year.
Premier Okaca's compromise plan, as reported by
the ASAHI, the JAPAN TIMES and the ADVERTISER -- all
three reports vary somewhat -- is substantially as follows:
1. The present triple system of control through the
Ambassador, the Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army
and the Governor General of Kwantung Territory shall be
abolished, and instead a dual system of control through
the Ambassador and the Commander-in-Chief of the Kwan-
tung Army shall be established.
2. The Ambassadorial post and that of the Commander-
in-Chief of the Kwantung Army will be held by one man,
who will, it is understood, be a high ranking Army Of-
ficer. He will be under the direct control of the Pre-
mier although responsible in a limited degree to the
Foreign Minister for activities purely diplomatic. He
will be vested with supervisory and administrative
rights, such as supervision of the South Manchuria Rail-
way Company and the Manchuria Telegraph and Telephone
Company; he will also control the Governor of the Kwan-
tung Province and administration of the South Manchuria
Ra11ay

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
Railway Zone. (The foregoing was reluctantly agreed
to by the Foreign and Overseas Offices upon being
persuaded that it is not a permanent arrangement, but
necessary because Manchuria is still in the throes of
transition, and military guidance is wiser for a time.)
3. A Chief Administrative Officer of "Chokunin"
rank (Cabinet appointee) shall be named to supervise
the administrative affairs. He will act as a Counselor
under the Ambassador, in addition to the regular diplo-
matic Counselor. It is understood that he will be an
Army Officer of Major-General rank appointed by the
Premier. He will control the three departments of General
Affairs, Police and Superintendence. Under him the
Chief of the General Affairs Department will take charge
of general administrative business such as engineering,
education and sanitation; the Chief of the Police Depart-
ment will attend to administrative and police affairs
in the South Manchuria Railway Zone, and other special
functions; the Chief of the Superintendence Department
shall supervise the business of the South Manchuria Rail-
way Company and the Telegraph and Telephone Company, and
shall also hold the position of Chief of Military Traffic.
The provision that the office of Chief of Police
shall be held concurrently by the Commandant of the Kwan-
tung Gendarmerie -- a Major-General -- has caused all
the trouble among the civil police in the Kwantung Pro-
vince. Thus far, at an indignation meeting of police,
a Chief Inspector was killed by one of his subordinates
who accused him of cowardice in demanding a revision of
the

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7-
the proviso from the Japanese Government. As feeling
is running high, further trouble may be expected if
a compromise plan is not effected. The ADVERTISER
quotes the HOCHI as expressing great surprise at the
mystery of why the civil officials in Kwantung Province
are so belligerently iissatisfied with the change in
administration in Manchuria. The implication seems to
be that they may have been prompted by important in-
fluences at home.
4. The present Governorship of the Kwantung Leased
Territory will be abolished, and a new Governor of "Cho-
kunin" rank will be appointed to take charge of adminis-
trative business in the Province, though not in the Rail-
way Zone, under the direction of the Chief Administrative
Officer. He will not have the powers of a Provincial
Governor. The courts, communications and Technical School
at Port Arthur shall be controlled directly by the Am-
bassador.
5. There shall be no revision of the regular diplo-
matic functions of the Embassy. The regular Counselor
shall direct the consular business, and the judicial and
registration affairs, besides the judicial police business
in the railway zone.
1
6. At the same time, in Tokyo, there will be establish-
ed under the direct supervision of the Premier, a new Man-
churian Affairs Bureau as part of the Cabinet. The Presi-
dent of that Bureau will be a person of "Shinnin" rank
(Imperial appointee). The Bureau will be composed of an
y advisory council made up of the Directors of Departments
concerned

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
1 concerned, and will communicate the Premier's instruc-
tions to the Ambassador in "Manchukuo" and provide a
liaison between the Japanese Government and the Japan-
ese administrative and representative organs in Manchu-
ria. Some of the Departments now under the Ministry
of Overseas Affairs will be transferred to this new
Bureau, and the Overseas Minister will transmit his
instructions to Consular Officers and others having
to do with colonization work in Manchuria, through the
Foreign Minister. This Bureau was not included in the
Army's original plan.
The ADVERTISER of September 19 points out that the
selection of the head of the new Bureau is one of the
most important steps in the entire reform plan. As he
is to be of "Shinninkan" rank, it amounts virtually to
the creation of a new Cabinet portfolio. The Govern-
ment's plan contemplated placing a high ranking General
on the active list at the head of the Bureau and a civilian
as Vice-President. The Army insisted that the plan be re-
versed in order that an Army man be in active control of
the organs in Manchuria as Vice-President, but that the
Bureau not have the appearance of being purely military,
a civilian be in charge. However, the Premier finally
prevailed upon the War Minister to adopt his plan, and
General Hayashi has agreed to hold the Presidency himself
: in addition to his portfolio as War Minister. The Govern-
ment hopes, by having a civilian Vice-President adminis-
trating its orders to the organs in Manchuria, that the
disgruntled civilian officers there will be appeased.
The

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
The victory of the Army in the Manchurian reform
plan, says the ADVERTISER of September 19, is a dupli-
cation of the victory won by the Navy in the question
of abrogation of the Washington Treaty. The NICHI NICHI
in July wanted to know what position the Army and Navy
would hol in the Okada Cabinet. The press now seems
to be of the opinion, though not expressed in so many
words, that the military dominates the Government in
spite of the efforts of the anti-military bloc, and the
two victories aforementioned appear to bear out that
belief. One paper pointed out, in connection with the
Manchurian reform, that the public had much more confi-
dence in the military than in civil administration, and
that was why the Army could feel confident that its de-
mands would be granted. However, the fact that the strug-
gle was so long drawn shows that the anti-military element
has some strength. It was suggested that the hand of
General Araki was shown in the belligerent attitude as-
sumed by the Kwantung Army toward the reorganization
plan, and other incidents indicate that the Army fears
the growth of anti-military opinion among the people.
Mr. Hirota, the Foreign Minister, did not lose entirely
as the Army does not have complete control of the organs
in Manchuria. The Premier himself is to direct the new
Bureau in the Cabinet. At the same time, although agree-
ment has been reached over the Manchurian administration
it remains to be seen whether or not the plan will be
modified

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
modified by the Privy Council or by the Diet. The
tremendous budgetary demands made by the Army and Navy
for the ensuing year may have great influence in re-
ducing their popularity with the public and domination
in the Government.
Respectfully yours,
dum hteill
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
800.
MNH:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
BERNE.
3
2jn

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 14, 1934.
Tokyo's despatch No. l019, dated
October 20, 1934:
This despatch, describing the agitation
against the reform plan for administration
in Manchuria, should be read in conjunction
with the Embassy's No. 1005 of October 10,
1934, which described the proposed changes.
The Japanese civilian police in
Manchuria have been agitating vociferously
against being placed under gendarmerie
control, probably fearing loss of prestige
and possibly of their jobs. This agitation
has served to draw attention to the larger
question: that of civil administration
versus military administration. The long-
standing controversy waged around the War
Office and Overseas Ministry, and to a
leaser degree the Foreign Office, has
apprently not been settled by the decision
by the Cabinet to adopt the plan described
in the Despatch of October l0. On the
contrary, the dispute now threatens to
affect the stability of the Cabinet. The
civilian police resistance to the new plan
is so determined that it threatens to
become

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
become a revolt against the Military. Premier
Okada. who is also Overaeas Minister, will
have to accept responsibility for this
insubordination, and may have to resign.
On the other hand, he can withdraw the
Cabinet plan for reform without loss of
face which may require resignation.
According to rumor the powers close
to the throne are dissatisfied with the
Okada Government because it has not been
able to withstand the demand7"Because of
the difficult times ahead of the nation,
careful and peaceful diplomacy is needed,
but offorts along these lines are constantly
being fustrated by the violent views of
the Military, which Okada seems powerless
to curb. The present incident, therefore,
Is being used to force the Okada Cabinet
out of office.
One newspaper states that Viscount Ishii,
Viscount Saito, and Mr. Takahashi are
mentioned as possible successors to
Premier Okada.
FE:WTT/DLY
894.002/253

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 20, 1934.
No. 1019.
Subject: Dispute over Administration in Manchuria
and Its Effect on Internal Japanese Politics.
Cokyan FE-381
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Divisicn of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 3934
NOV 5 - 1934
1CF
Department of Stape
1934
For Distribution-Check
794.002
Grade 
No
894.002/253
Tof-1l
For
✓
In U SA
M.1.N
COPYSENT TO
The Honorable
O.N.T.AND M. I. D.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
ABRISTANT SECHETARY
Washington.
OF STATE
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
252.
1005/dated October 10, 1934, on the subject of Japap-
3
ALED
representation in Manchuria, and to report that, sinee
8
-1934
that despatch was written, the dispute referred to on
pages 6 and 7, between the civil police of the Kwantung
Leased Territory and the Kwantung Army Gendarmerie, has
developed to a point where it threatens the continued
Vexistence of the Okada Cabinet.
Under the plans which have been devised and approved
by the Cabinet for the reform of the Japanese administrative
orsana

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
organs in Manchuria, the Commander of the Gendarmerie
of the Kwantung Army is to hold concurrently the post of
the Director of Police Affairs of the Kwantung Leased
Territory and the South Manchuria Railway Zone. As
Director of Police Affairs, the Gendarmerie Commander
will control all the Japanese civilian police in Man-
churia, including the Kwantung Government police, which
have jurisdiction in the Leased Territory and the Railway
Zone, the consular police, now under the control of the
Foreign Office, in Manchurian cities where there are
large Japanese and Korean communities, and the local
Japanese police, constables or watchmen who are hired by
the Japanese communities for their own protection. There
are around five thousand of these civilian police in Man-
churia, and for some reason which is not entirely clear,
they are objecting most strongly to being placed under
the command of the Army. The majority of them are ex-service
men, and it would naturally be thought that they would
welcome control by the Army, but it appears that they feel
that they have graduated from the Army and object to re-
turning to its control. There is also the fear that the
Gendarmerie will entirely supplant the police in Manchuria
and that therefore the members of the police force will
lose their positions..
In addition to these more or less personal reasons,
however, there is the question of civil administration
versus military administration, which is the basic problem
underlying the dispute now waging between the Ministry
of Overseas Affairs and the War Department. The police
dispute

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
dispute is only a part of this larger controversy, but
has attracted public attention because the police are
active and vociferous in their opposition to military
control.
In the course of their campaign against being
placed under the control of the Japanese Army, the Kwan-
tung police sent fourteen members of their organization
to Tokyo. Shortly after their arrival, they issued a
statement to the newspapers, of which the following is
the ADVERTISER translation:
" We are not resorting to the underhand
measures practiced by some participants
in this dispute. The military is pro-
jecting an autocratic administration in
Manchuria, which will not promote the wel-
fare of Japan and is prone to disturb or-
der in Manchuria. The population of Man-
churia does not enjoy military administra-
tion. To cite an example, the army has
set fire to and consumed in flame all the
villages along the road stretching for
20 miles between Shanchengchen and Tunghwa,
alleging that the villages have been har-
boring bandits. We question that that is
the way to enhance the friendly feeling of
the Manchurian people.
" If the military really believes in the
reorganization formula, why does it apply
pressure on freedom of opinion in Manchuria?
We demand fair play in this dispute, and we
mean to fight to the last man literally as
protectors of the Constitution."
Five newspapers in Tokyo, including the JAPAN ADVERTISER,
were suppressed for publishing this statement.
The controversy is being waged around the War Office
and the Ministry of Overseas Affairs, the latter depart-
ment having jurisdiction over the civilian administra-
tion of the Kwantung Leased Territory. Both of these
Departments have issued public statements explaining
their

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
their positions, creating what the Japanese newspapers
describe as "the battle of statements". The War Office
contends that the civilian police should be placed under
the command of the Kwantung Army because of the necessity
for unified control, while the Department of Overseas
Affairs bases its arguments on the ground that civilian
administration should always be separate from military af-
fairs. The newspapers have been rather non-committal in
regard to the matter, and confine their comments to de-
ploring the break-down in official discipline. The re-
actionary element, as is usually the case, supports the
Army view, but, according to information which has reached
the Embassy, a large section of the public is inclined to
support the civilian view of the case. It is being asserted
privately, according to one informant, that the Army is
becoming much too arrogant and grasping, and that it is not
working entirely for the good of Japan and Manchuria. It
has personal reasons for wishing to control everything
possible in Manchuria. Army officers, in the Japanese ser-
vice, are usually retired when comparatively young, on
small pensions, and they wish to create numerous positions
in Manchuria under their control, in order that they may be
able to step into these positions when they are retired.
The Army, however, is adamant in its demand that the
original plan be carried out and that the Kwantung police be
placed under the Gendarmerie commander. The Cabinet was
forced to agree with the Army and announced on the 18th
that there would be no deviation from the original scheme
for reform of the administrative organs in Manchuria. Im-
mediately upon receipt of the news, a number of the civilian
officials

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
officials of the Kwantung Government resigned, and the
Kwantung police is reported to be considering resignation
en masse. The Kwantung Army has reported that it is pre-
pared to take drastic action (presumably meaning the pro-
clamation of martial law in the Leased Territory) if neces-
sary.
The principal danger to the Okada Cabinet arises
from the fact that the Cabinet cannot withdraw its plan
for reforming the Japanese administrative organs in Man-
churia without such loss of face that it will be compelled
to resign. On the other hand, if the civilian police con-
tinue their resistance to military control, a situation
will be created which will amount practically to a revolt
against the military. Premier Okada, who is also Minister
for Overseas Affairs, will have to assume responsibility
for the insubordination of the officials of his Department,
and will have to resign. Admiral Okada is in a most diffi-
cult position. As Premier he must carry out the plans of
his Cabinet anc enforce the reform of the administrative
organs in Manchuria; as Minister for Overseas Affairs, how-
ever, he must present and uphold the principles for which
the officials of his department are battling. General
aeashe
Hishikari, the Commander of the Kwantung Army, Ambassador
to "Manchukuo", and Governor of the Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory, also is in an anomalous position. As a representa-
tive of the Army, he must support unification of control
of Japanese administration in Manchuria under the Army;
as a representative of the Foreign Office and the Overseas
Ministry he must advocate civilian administration. General
Hishikari is reported in the newspapers to have given up the
situation as beyond his control, and to be preparing to
r0s10

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
1 resim.
The rumor is current in political circles in Japan
that there is more in the present controversy than meets
the casual eye. According to the rumor, the Genro, Prince
Saionji, the Keeper of the Privy Seal, Count Makino, the
Minister of the Imperial Household, Baron Dr. Ikki, and
other officials close to the Throne, are dissatisfied with
the Okada Government, principally because it has not been
able to withstand the demands of the military. The Genro
and other pacific influences wish to save the coming naval
disarmament conference, if possible, but the Okada Cabinet
was prevailed upon by the radical elements in the Navy to con-
sent to Japan's abrogation of the Washington naval agree-
ment. Likewise, the liberal element was opposed to the
Army's plan to unify all Japanese administrative organs in
Manchuria under the control of the Army, but the Okada Cabinet
was forced or induced to agree to the Army's plans with but
slight modification. Because of the difficult times ahead
of the nation, careful, peaceful and friendly diplomacy
is needed, but efforts along these lines are continually
being frustzated by the violent views of the military, and
Premier Okada has shown himself as virtually powerless in
his efforts to curb the military. The present incident,
therefore, according to the rumors, is being used to force
the Okada Cabinet out of office.
The TEITO NICHI NICHI states that the Genro and other
high officials are already secretly casting about in search
of

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.94)
-7-
of a suitable candidate for Premier. Viscount Ishii (former-
ly Foreign Minister and Ambassador to Washington), Viscount
Saito (recently Premier) and Mr. Korekiyo Takahashi (recently
Finance Minister) are mentioned as possible candidates.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
ERD:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
7
n
n
Berne.
X

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.93)
694.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002
SEE ....894.00 P.R./82
FOR .. Deapatch../1007
FROM ...Japan
(... Greu
.) DATED ..Oat...1,..1934.
TO
NAME
1-1197
/254
REGARDING: The Japanese Cabinet, during the month of September , 1934.
FRG.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.94)
-44
XII. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
(0) 
It dees not appear to have beem definitely desided
whether the Department of Overseas Affairs shall be
abelished or a new Overseas Minister shäll be appointed
in plmee of Premier Okada, wh. has filled th t portfolio
sinee his appointment as Premier. Now that this Depart-
mont has been virtually joprived of any direct control
in the administretion of Manchuria, the newspapers beli ve
that Premier Oka wil soon come to a dofirite decision
wit regar to th future of the Department. E OBAk
MAINICHI of Septemper 1 reported that the Premier had
mare up his min: t: appoint n Overseas Minister before
the end of the yonr and that the seloetion would probably
be me e from the House of Pears.
According to the ASAHI SHI BUN of September £7, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs has decided to improve the
mechanism of the Japanese Poreign Serviee and with this
end in view will appoint from among the personnel of the
Foreim Office a "Foreign Office Efrielemey Committee"
which will revise th: system of exemimmtiom for entry
into the diplematic service, adopt an age lixit for diplo-
matie offisials, and establish a closer contact batweem
the Ministry ef Fereign Affairs and diplomatis and comsular
effiees abread. This newspaper states that the Chairmem
of the proposed Cemmittee will be Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu,
Vise Minister for Fereign Affairs, and the Assistant
Chairman, Mr. Mégeru Kuriyame, Chief of the Treaty Bureau.
(b)
The ESKUMIN SAXMBUN had the temperary temerity to
publish an editerial on September 26 entistise "Puture

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
-45
Administration," im whish it was stated that reports had
been received to the effect that there wes no Japenese
police official in the Kwantung Leased Territory who did
not corruptly amass a fortune of 3 20,000 during a three
years' ter of office and that the Chinese were laughing
in elation t this st te of s fairs. Since most of the
police officials in the Kwantuns Leased Territory are ex-
Army men, Army circles in Japan protested vigorously
gainst this editorial. The ay following the publiea-
tion of tn edItorial, the KOKUMIN SHIMBUN printed a
notice wich the o ption, "Tor the Bake of the Honor of
the Kwantung Police," announeing that 1t "eaneelled" that
portion or th: editorial which referred to the amassing
of fortunes by Kwantung police ofrici:ls and a' ing that
such a st tement wus without f undation.
It 1s r porte that on September 8 Prine anin,
Chief of the Generul Staff, was received in audienoe by the
Emperor, who sanetioned the proposed appointment of Generals
Sadao Araki an Nobuyuki Abe as tho commanders of the
two opposing srmies i the grand wilitary menouvers which
are to be held on November 11, l2, and lã.
(e)Th
The newspapers st te that Admiral Nobumase Suetsugu,
Cemmander-in-Chief of the Cembined Pleet, will be shifted
from his present p: st in December to become a member of the
Supreme Military Couneil, and that his successer as Com-
mamder-in-Chief will probably be Aimiral Osami Magame, who
is now Commandant of the Iokosuke Maval Station.
Reports were pablished in the Japanese press that in
prenaratim

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.96)
4a
preparatiom for a possible naval construction race "re-
sulting from the failure of the l985 naval limitatioms
Cemferenee," a complete survey of the fscilities of 66 arads
and mmitions factories in and around Tokyo had been start-
ed by the Fleet Administ ation Department of the Navy Minis-
try an: that represont tives of th: f ctories ha been
swamoned for the purpose o: submitting detailed reports
on the cap city of their plants, present equipment, plans
for expansion, the number of workmen employed, et cetera.
(d) The Political Partiea
The eiyukai an the Minseito have been unable to
agree on the cuestion of ric control. The former party
is in favor of a State rice monopoly, wit State control
of pro uctlon an rketing, while the latter advocates
adjustment of rice suuply en demand t rough voluntary
control of production by th: farmers under State super-
vision.
(0) Civil Aviation, Its Development as a Reservist
hir Foree in the Bvent of Wax.
The Ministry of Communications, with the support of
the War and Navy Wi 1stries, is reported to have instituted
a proram for th: expansion of civil aviution as a second
line of air defense thet could be mobilised for military
purposes in an emergency. THI OSAKA MAINICHI, in advoeat-
ing the strengthening of the army an navy air forces,
observes that since an extensive development of these air
forees will not only entail an enormous outlay of money,
but also "will incite other countries," the expansion of
military aviation must be stopped at & given limit, whereas
civil aviatiem ean be developed on a larger semße. Aeserding

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.96)
-47-
Aeserding te THE JAPAN CHRONICLE of September 4, Mr. Toke-
nami, the Minister for Communicatioms, is demanding an
additional sum of X 1,s00,000 in the appropriations for
loss-8s for the extension and inauguration of air routes,
the improvement or aerodromes, an the eneourag ment of
the aviation business. Thls newspaper st tes that the
Coumumications Minister conten : that the evelopment
of civil avi: tion as resorvist air force e lls for
urgent attention; that l rge passenger planes co id be
converted int heavy bombere  mail planes into sc outing
planes; an' th..t the expansion an improvement of this
braneh of vi tion wi:l serve to train reservist avi tors
who would be of use in tn ev nt of war.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
WP
GRAY
1-1806
Tokyo
FROM
Dated November 27, 1934
Roc'd 3:24 a. m.
Al
Secretary of State,
Washington.
1934
SAR   EAIRS
894.002
261, November 27, m
894.002/255
低
Minister of Finance Fujii resigned because of ill-
health and has been succeeded today by Takahashi Minister
of Finance in the preceding Cabinet.
It is generally accepted that the plea of illhealth
is genuine and that Fujii has suffered a break down by his
recent struggle over the Cabinet.
GREW
JS
FILED
NOV 2 8 1934

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.00 P.R./83
Desp.#1050
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grow
Nov.12,1934
FROM
-) DATED
1o111
NAME
1—1197
256
The Cabimet: Indicates probable changes in -,
REGARDING:
owing to dissatisfactiom of liberals,close
to the throne.
2
0
fpg

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.91)
- 80 -
IIX. INTENAS POAIZIGAL AFVAINS.
(a) 
There vere mewspaper rumers that the Genre, the Keeper
of the Privy Seal and ether liberals elese to the Throne
11
were dissetisfied with the Okads Government, chiefly beeause
it nac been unable to resist the demands of the Army and
the Navy, sinee it consented to the Navy's demmnd that the
Washington Naval Treaty be abrogated and gave in to the
Army's demand for the umifieation of all Japanese adminis-
trative organs in Manehuria under the contrel of the Army.*
The possible candidates that hav: been mentiomed fer
the post of Pr mier are Viseount Ishii (formerly Minister
for Poreim Affairs an Ambassador to th United States),
Viseoumt Saito (rocently Promier), and Hr. Fakahashi (Fi-
nanee Minister in the Sa1to Cabinet). THE TEITO NICHI NICHI
thinks th&t Premier Okada"has proved himself virtually wseless
in eontrolling the military," and with ref: enee to the Mas-
ehuriam administrative reform eontroversy THE CHUBAI of
Ostober l9 stated that from the standpeint of offieial dis-
eiplime "his (the Premier's) attitade was deplerable".
On Oetober 5 Count Hideo Kodame, former Governor of
P.1
the Kwentung Leased Territery an: fermer Civil Governer of
Kerea, was appointed Minister for Oversess Affairs, a post that
had been held by Premier Gkada.
The ereatiom ef an offisial eemmission to investigate
matiomal preblems and advise the Cabimet in the farmulatiem
of pelisies which has been so frequently mentiomed in the
 press in reeemt menthst* has besm decided upom, secerding
See provioms Momthly Reperts.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.92)
-31 -
to the Kekmmi, by Pramier Gkada after his study of the sup-
gestions submitted to hia by Home Minister Pmie Geto,
Takejiro Tokemami, Minister of Commumieatioms,amd Chaji
Maehida, Minister of Commeree and Industry. Lecording to
this newapaper, th t ree si ister: above-ment oned are
said to hav r commended to the Premier that to proposed
Comuissior should not be used as an orgn thoough which
the Gov rnment vight negott. te with the politieel parties,
bt th t it sh l he simply an inatitution which the
Government might consult in refernee to nat!onal policies
ntoer thn iolom'tle mstter an questions of national
dofenso.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.512/26
Desp.#1074
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Nov.80,1934.
FROM
) DATED
0o111
NAME
1-1197
257
REGARDING: Changes in the Ministry of Finance: Redgnation
of Mr.Sedanobu Pujii,as Minister of Finance
and appointment of Mr.Korekiyo Takahashi,to
succeed Mr.Fujii in that Ofrise. Reports
ciroumstances regarding -.
2
1
rpg

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 11, 1934.
No. 1078.
Subject: Japanese Representation in "Manchukuo".
Al
8 2 59
S
2
S
2
FARES
6
14
DEC 234
894.002/258
Cu0 72d
Department of State
JAN101905
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
R/B
Sir:
I have the honor to report that General Jiro Minami,
Minister for War at the time of the outbreak in Manchuria
in l93l, has been appointed to the combined posts of Com-
mander of the Kwantung Army and Ambassador to "Manchukuo"
with control of the Government of the Kwantung Leased
Territory, succeeding General Takashi Hishikari, who will,
it is stated, be made a member of the Supreme War Council.
The change in personnel is stated not to involve
any change in the policy of Japan in Manchuria. Apparently
it

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -
it is partly routine, and partly a desire to have a
new man in charge to carry out fully the recent changes
which the Government of Japan recently introduced in
the Japanese Governmental organs in that region. This
8940027253
subject was discussed in my despatch No. 10l9 of Octo-
ber 20, 1934.
Respectfully yours,
2く.
Joseph C. Grew
800.
ELN:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
894000.
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/259
#1161
FOR
SEE894.00 P.R./86
Feb. 7, 1935.
Grew
..) DATED
FROM ....Japan
1-1127
NAME
TO
The Cabinet: Proposed Commission for the study of national
REGARDING:
policies which would act as an advisory body to the
Cabinet.
FRG.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
(b)
The Cabinet.
With further reference to the proposed commission
for the study of national policies which would act as an
advisory body to the Cabinet,** it was reported by the
January newspapers that, according to the Government's
plan, this commission would be composed of representatives
of the three leading political parties (the Seiyukai, the
Minseito, and the Kokumin Domei), the Army, the Navy, and
diplomatic, financial, and educational circles, and that
among those considered as possible candidates were former
Premier Makoto Saito, Baron Tatsuo Yamamoto, Finance
Minister Takahashi, Viscount Kikujiro Ishii (former
Foreign Minister!, and Baron Goh (President of the Tokyo
Chamber of Commerce and Industry). The Seiyukai are
apparently
Embassy's despatch No. 1088, December 10, 1934.
** Embassy's daspatch No. 1154, February 7, 1935.
*** See Monthly Report for October, 1934, Section III (a).

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
-二”
apparently opposed to the formation cr such & commission
inasmuch as, according to press reports, they fear that
the commission will be organized as the nucleus of a new
party to support the Governnert in the event that the
Diet is dissolved end a general election is called.
Opinion is divided concerning the Cabinet's reasons for
espousing the esteblishment of an adviscry commission on
policy, some observers believing that this organization
is designed as a bulwark against the Seiyukai, others
that its purpose is to foster public belief in the
notion of united national support of the present Govern-
ment through diversified representation in the commission.

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.92)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/546
FOR
/1332
894.002/
FROM
Japan
Grew
May 31, 1955.
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1137
Cabinet Deliberative Body and Cabinet Investigation Bureau:
2
REGARDING:
Two new advisory bodies of the Japanese Government: Reports
9
0
on the creation of-, both subsidiary to the cabinet.
FRG.
N
6
C

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.65)
10y0.  82. 1000
ND. 1000
ubjoes:
CARIEET DELIRERATIVE BOBY AND GABINET
The Lemorable
D seerotary of Jtete,
vackingten.
I have the hener to regart the ereesien en muy lo,less.
of twe neu asvlessy besiee es the Jugasese sovermment, betn
ambasasary to the eabinet, designeted resgeetiraly as the
malake ingi s and the au ee ye. mais
shtngh zas is sramalated litarally as vablaes dellterative
toty ane Le rensaree La the mgilh Langage meusgegeve t
a mter es téties seslueg mtsenal poliey cousesl,
"oblnes eeulessy beere", and "sablset Laguisy commesl;
ge  yee bee   h  te
twnniesed "sdeet avessigaten urees".
the cablese pelsbesetive mety (elhae stl sas) ns

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.83)
-8
establisned by Jayenese inperial ordinanse mumber lls of
May l0, l956, publimhed in the ofrielel gazette on the
following sey. The ordinamee stetes thas the body mhell
be under she direction of she oubinet, and shall Investigate
and deliberete upon sueh important polleles es may be refer-
red to is by the eabinet.
The premier ie president, the
Emperor designetes o cabinet minister as vice president, and
the other memoors (who shell be not more then firteen) are
apoolutod ay the
POror.
The promier is elven ou-
thority so determine rulee for she auomissiom or quessione
to the body.
che ficel ortiele of the ordinanee atstes
the senorel affaire
(shon) or the  abinet  olloerative Rody
shall be
156
一
民
24
youre has been
oureun
ore the powerrul policy-
determinins organn of vhe dopas taente to whioh they are noml-
nally subordinute.
The orricinl
te ror "ug l, l38.
announeed
mppointment o the cinance minislur, r. fakahashi, to
the
position or viee rusident or tne Jabinet Dellscrctivo
Body.
and nnmed firtoen other men
Th
aro
viscoung
alto, forner prumler: Fmklo Tzuwe, formerly
sovernor general or fmiwan, xlieui babe, former presicont or
the leglslative bureau, Viseount Nabumitau Aoki, and Baron
Nagatosbi kuroda, all four momoore or the houns of peurs;
oihin Ikede, mamnging director or the Mitsul intureate;
Konkloni

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.70)
me of the bouse ef pose, the Le sessesesed ae the
Mltoublahs teterestes tour slaseste mombeve in the yosesme
of ten aoe tete, tome cabteee metee, tns
Eaveses, mmter or the house es yoere, fommely entel cobe
Lnet seeretery md presiesat of the Legislotive buresm,
Kelkiehl ramemegi, fermer parllamentery viee miateter ef
Re  h       
Lng wmter the prescet ataiasstratien oestrary to selyahas
Grdere: Remtare Misune, femmse cablast member, Lelontse
Moonsess, alse a fommer cabiuet mamber, ane Kiyeshs ste,
fermer epesker of the lover house and parllamemtary viee
miaister er maiestions.
it she presemt sime, shes, the cabiast Daliberesive
Body, mder she loedership of the pramier aad the fiasnse
minleter, conclets ef the forner prenier, four dlssingsiahed
peere, eme representative eseh fer the twe largest bmsinese
Latereste, feur lesdere of the measeste perty, the Lesser
es the maller xonmmin pemel party, ane saree palltieally
experiesced mes vhese ceegeretirenese vith the povermmens
bes cees them their mmberabiy ia the salyekai party. the
appeiateee are ef eablaet cellber. rxperienee in pellttes
le thess eumes malsrieetien, end pelitsesl metéeretiens
ageer to have stoe aieh ta totenmiains their ahesee. o
toty etante an a ere of boare of direeteme for the creummnt.
e te y the  Lereeel.
the cabdess Dellberetive Boty hald ite firet meetins en

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.73)
tte tsege er he te tte  bt.
 i .
Nemste he Gattert Iaeetigetiee renn hee poo
sressed mve sleniy. metetlseked t iaperiel crtinense
nasber l10 of may 10, 10s (publlehed la tho effieial
geeette es My 11), Ite wesk la dafiued as kie Lavestttem
of ipertant peliules, the stedy of proposed vovernmemeal
assiems es directed by the premies, and the gumeral affaise
(e)  the Cabimet Deliberative Dody. rts most ereme
pewer is the autherity to oall upan ey dopartment of the
ovemment for ay Laformstlon required. The burees s
stated to bo uader the premier's direatlon and to eemgrise
a direeter, a seurutary, an assistunt seoretery, fistesm
Lavestigetere, and twenty Lovereak wembors. The burem s
t mlatala a standias exeestive eaittee and also e
stemtins commistee of uxperts. the mormal term of cervice ts
twe yeare. saigare Youkide reuigned frem his yeal tiem 
ahiar seerotary of the esbinet to acoupt eppolatmeme 
airester er the Cakimet Iavestigatlon Bureen (errielal
maeste, may 13, less). the ofrieial mazoste for may a7
amacunese the followins eypolatmeste a Lavectigstors:
Tatome Tamade and Nidee Hassnkumn (riaance Separtment).
Tasmge Xeeme and Miree vade (departueat or agri cul ture ne
farestuy). Xmimesmke rajita (tadustry ratienelizatiem teresm).
Issek timme (eovermer of Salteme prefosture), Xoimosnise
e  ld e (ae asfaire dopare).
Gatel pohlle (atienal reseurees bureee), ximmo Ge
(ommmieatime department), nhin Backis (Gapartment of
mee asd Ladustay), mtkine ramstere (rebete rehesllle

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.79)
一
). ().
 ()) f
 h to notes. Feret, e m d
bove bese chessm mere fer thetr grallssestiene e
speotellete them ter thete remt. seeend, they are taine
from covermmemt eirelee rether then frem the out side, and
to shat ertems the bareeu is na organ of the buroaueresy.
Taird, the amy and mavy are reprecented, but by effieers
of relesively lew renk.
tThe ereimemee sesting up the cabinet Investigetion
hareem meatiems shet ite compesition shall include alee
twenty Leu-rank membere. The apypein tment of these nembers
bee mot yet boem eneeuseed, ner ere the eholees of parti-
caler Lmpertemee. ss dersaed by the eivil serviee regale-
tieme of Japem, these memhere een be expeeted to be persens
of ammmel salary of fifteem hundred to twe thousand yem
whese serviee will be in ssslsting the reseerohes of the
Investigaters. The barees, in foet, is so orgenized that
the investlgatere have ample assistenee te meke their wosk
really affeetive. A firet fermal meetinn wan held en my
se but me basiness wes dome.
The tendeney se cemeplemous in reesnt yeare fer states
to Gevelep maslemalistleally and for their governments to
supertagese now egeneise of netional plannins to meet the
urgene need of eeoreinetien has blessemed in rapen is the
Sablmes neliberative medy end she cabtnes Tavectigetion
mereem. Botm advise the eablnes. The aalsberesive bety
Le a pelstteel beese er eirestere vhese acvice en netional
polsey to valees. mo inveetigatien bureem is a commiesien
of eaperte, erganised for nosive ressereh ia teohmieel mattese
owing

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.77)
Rntsusnese ethee then the nosesslty ef nationally
plommed coortésstien in coemnte cotivitiee heve contrt-
betee to the preseme Lamvetsem in Aan. publle alesnt
Lafeetien win te mer La maien the politieal pertios have
aperated ls well kamm, and sais ass had ite offeet in bring
Las the me engase lato aiatenee. it tue tise of the pre-
malattem es she estitution in l Jupn ss net reay fer
reprepentative severament in reality, cnd & senne that extre-
eamstisutsemal luslitusious sust be lousud to for guidamee
bes mever almse eampletely aleapyoured, although there could
be me reesemeale bege es duplicatiug te remurkable grong e
eleer steteemem of the Welji puriod. Partieularly sinse
lo the prestige er the policlosl partine has suffered.
Paraly beesmse of their notorlously bui rocord, partly becease
 my reuse inst m, n partly beonuse of 
ingremd ésetrust of ruprusentetive sovernment as an altem
thime, the pelitleal partius uave buer loulng such populer
faitn ee shey previeusly had possusesd. The Ckade cabimet.
Le mill e resalled, sa mot a eauinet er the majority part
 the Lomer nouse. of the tse seute of the Lover house, the
sotyutal et sae present time holss sst but bas not beem givem
a eppertumity to form the coverament, and becese of sase
treatmens 1s hee met peraitted its meabors to aecept eabinst
passttems. soverel solyakal men whe did so were road oue of
.
r la alrrienls to see how the waiyukel could be m
photenst. he party's visian is no doubt aoourete vhen 10 soss
annee an the mee besses. thesher the ahaseite, whien to

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.80)
-7-
Londing the sppert, sél Leter segret ste eetden sammine
 .
the  e e  .
Ls anemtee of the parttee they are ta prtmstpbe Sovesehls
iaellene to mngerty ovemntel bedlee, bet et the me
time both the amey emd the navy wouid probebly profer to
rely direezly em shulr privlleged positian uuder the eem-
stitutiom then om these nw lmetltutione. The fees that the
ary ame mevy sre represemted in the lavestigatlun buremm e
mot in the dellberetive body sua este that they uusire te be
aireetly laformed regarding cll the teekuleal rosuarelt cam-
moeted with nutional plamming but do not wist to be comdsted
by the eeslsioms or the mer arunn of politiosi sevluere es hey
would be by impllestlan is partieiputing la soth. tbay ase
by matur uspieious af poistses and unaure or tholr abilly
to cope vith politieinas ou o paliticiuns round. me
army and mavy appear to be willing to work wish the exyerte
but mot with the politielane.
Meay questloss ebems she Cabinct voliburcsive ody é
the cebimet Imvessigstiem mresu eun be ansvored saly atn t
pessage ef time. startins with a very real mesd fer ecevese
mating the work of the varions departmsats, for whion the
en binet wes deemed lmedeguete, the soveramest mas lauashed
twe mew bedlee and le fooling out the way for them. they
have bees creeted siugly by the taperer's erainense poves,
premmmably in seceréenee vith an artsele af the constituttes
vhich states thet the Tmperer dosemmieee the erganisation
of te eisforeme treschee of the atmtaistrasion. mot cme
temglatee in the cmstitutéen, hese iupertess crgans heve
Bosn eetabllabed at e time shen their egeretien sen he

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.84)
-8-
pelltnl arse t a.    s, y e
te as agly totee hee the need fer their atistense
Ls esnatdered to te pest. It Lo toubtrui whether the
sovermmens iteelf hes a alear seee of she future of these
bedies, and it is probable that tuets future will depezé
upem the degree of sheir suecess. Pualie statemente of
effieiale and othurs, the wnoerteiaty of the press, com-
versetienal romarks t membere of the mbasey steff --
all eearim the Laprossiom shat the funetioms of the twe
mes ergmms remals se be vorked out in praetiee.
Respeetrally yours,
Joseph c. Grew.
000.8
08.8
Copr to Logasiom Polpins
7

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.00 P.R./90
espat ch #1348
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
June 14,1935
FROM
) DATED
No111
NAME
1-1137
26
REGARDING: Cabinet: Speeches of Cabinet Members at the
Conference of I'refectural Governors: Creation
of the Cabinet Daliberative Body and the
Cabinet Investigation Bureau.
rpg

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
The Cabinct.
(1)
Speeches of Cabinet Members at the Conference
002
of Prefectural Governors.
894.
At the opening of the first conference of Pre-
fectural Governors under the present Government on
May 3, addresses were delivered by the Fromier and by
the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, and Justice,
setting forth the administrative policies of the Govern-
ment.
The Prenier's speech was for the most part routine
in nature. Howev r, he tacitly attacked the Minobe
theory when hc stated that scholars must refrain from
utterances likely to cause an erroneous conception of
the fundamental principle of the nation, namely, faithful
obedience of all Jepenese subjects to the E peror as
ruler.
. Hs also touched on the functions of the recently
organized Cabinet Delioerative Body and Cabinet Iuvesti-
gation Bureau. Mr. Hirota said that J n was on
friendly torns with the rest of the world, including
"Manchukuo", Soviet Russia, end China; that Japan's
relations with Chia showed a "trond toward a notable
improvement at present as compared with those that
obtained in May last when the Governors' conference was
in session"; and, with reference to the unrest prevailing
in Europe since the declaration by the German Government
on March 16 of the adoption of a system of general
military conscription, that the Japenese Government was
taking a calm attitude regarding the affair, which was
a problem mainly concerning Europe. The Minister
for Justice denounced "undesirable elements" among the
extreme Rightists who oppross public opinion and
intimidate the press under the cloak of patriotism
and nationalism. Mr. Tckahashi's speech contained
nothing of interest.
(2)

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
- 19 -
(2)
Creation of the Cabinet Deliberative Body
and the Cabinet Investigation Bureau.
On Me: 10 the much discussed Cabinet Peliberativo
Body and also the Cabinet Investigation Bireau were
created by I  ial Ordic nces. T e Frer ier is ux-
officio Fresident of the first-named organization.
Three days after the stablishment of these bodies,
the OFFICIAI GAZFTTF announced the appointment of the
Finance Minister, Mr. Takahashi, tc the post of Vice
President of the Crbinet Deliberative Booy and named
fifteen other men as its members:
a former Premier
(Viscount Acmiral Seito); four distinguished Pcers;
one representative each for the Mitsui interests and
the Ni: o: Yusen K isha; four Jeaders of the Mi scito
party; the leader of the Kokumin Do..si party; and three
former Seiyukai leadors who had lost their party member-
ship because of their cooperaticn with the present Govern-
ment against Seiyukai orders. The Imperial Ordinance
provides that the Cabinet Deliberative Body shall be
ander the direction of the Cebinet and shall investigate
and deliberate on such important policies as may be
referred to it by the Cabinet. The Iperial Ordinance
establishing the Cebinet Investigation Bureau provides
that this organization shall investigate important
policies, shall study proposed governmental actions
as directed by the Premier, and shall handle the general
affairs of the Cabinet Deliberative Body. Mr. Shigeru
Yoshida resigned from the position of Chiof Secretary.
of the Cabinet to accept appointment as Tirector of
the Investigation Bureau. While the Army and Navy are
represented in the latter organization, they have no
representation

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.94)
-20 -
representaticn in the Cabinet Deliberative Body, possibly
because they dc nct want to be comnitted by the decisicns
cf this body, preferring to rely directly on their
privileged position under the Constitution.*

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.94)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..B24.00..P.R,/91
FOR ..._Dep#1387
FROM ....Jadan.
(Gr) DATED
Julyll.1935.
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1197
The Cabinet: Meetings of the Cabinet Deliberative Body and
REGARDING:
the Cabinet Investigation Bureau.
262
2
FRG.
2
62

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
III. INTERVAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
The Cabinet.
The Cabinet Deliberative Body and he Cabinet Investi-
gation Bureau, which had been created on May l0 by Imperial
Grdinances, held their first session on June 12 and began
work on the first problem subuitted by the Government,
the reforn of central and local finances. At a second
meeting held on June l7 national policies for the re-
organization of energency finances and the promotion of
national economic activities in generel were discussed
and Cabinet Ministers vere interpellated by members of
the Cabinet Doliberative Body. The Linister for Finance
stated that he could not predict when the present un-
balanced budget would ond. In answer to an intorpellation
concerning the problem of adjusting national finances and
national defense, the War and Navy Ministers declined to
divulge their views, the former replying that he must
first make a study of the comparative strength of the
Japanese Army and the armies of other Powers and also
give special consideration to the situation in "Manchukuo",
the latter stating that he coulā not announce his opinion
until

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
-17 -
until the results of the naval limitation conference
should become known.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.97)
THE UNDER BEORETARY
SEP 9 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF ATAIR
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 5, 1935.
General Kawashima is being transferred
to the War Office from the command of the
military forces in Korea. He has the
reputation of being an excellent administrator.
a forceful leader of troops, and a strong
character. He belongs neither to the
Araki group nor to the Ugaki group, and it
may therefore be expected that he will
continue General Hayashi's policy of
suppressing factionalism in the Army.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.90)
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D
MJP
GRAY
1-1800
FROM
Tolugo
94.
Rec'ao9 a.m.
Secrotary of Stato,
AFARS
的
Jashington.
1035
Dmeartmeat ad Strte
171, Soptembor, 4, 3 p. m.
894.002/263
Ministor of War resigned today. Gonoral Yoshiyuki
Kayashima appointed succossor. Thore appear to bo no
political complications involvod. Dospatch follows.
NEVIL E
VVC
SP 20 1935
FILED
F

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/567
Tel#6?, 5pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
U.S.S.R.
Bullitt
-) DATED
Feb 26. 1936
TO
NAME
1-1197
894.002/
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936: Situation as described in telegram
REGARDING:
from Hirota to the Japanese Ambassador at Moscow. Further,
comment of the Japanese Ambassador on difficulty of filling
the post of Prime Minister.
264
FRG.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.94)
FB
FS
GRAY
MOSCOW
Dated February 26,1936
loc'd 10:50 a. m.
894.
Secretary of State,
ashington.
67,ruy 96,5 p.
Csa, Japanese Ambas e or,  as informed me thet he
has jus receivel a tele gran fro: rota containing the
894.
follovin news:
Coe. officers of the   eginent of the First
Division stetioned in Tyo  the early hours of this
0
morning February 2eth, murdered ..dmiral Ckada, Prime
0
Minister; Takhashi, Finance Minister, and Viscount
Saito, Lord Privy Seal. They also attemptod to murder
Baron akino who narrowly escaped. After these murders
thoy returned to their barracks.
wo. A stato of 'danger of war somothing loss than
martial law" was proclaimed.
Three. The Boursc and panis were closed but were
reoponed in the aftornoon.
ccording to Hirota's tolcgram quiot provails in
the canital. No attack was mado on any membor of tho
Foreign Office.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.91)
FS
2-No. 07, February 26, 5 n. m. from Moscow
Forcign Office.
Ambanscdor Ota uxprossed the oninion thet it
vould be uxtremely difficult to find anyone to fil
the post of Irime Minister ane sr id thet he thought
(Gunoral)
is would be offered cither to  overn lent Araki or to
Urucha, Governor Guneral of orea.
IHP)
BULLIOT

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.96)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE....894.00/570
Tol/39, 11pm
FOR
894.002/265
FROM .. Japan
Grew
..) DATED
Fob 26,1956.
TO
NAME
1-1187
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936: Assassination of Premier Okada.
REGARDING:
Home Minister Goto appointed temporary Acting Premier, accord-
ing to press report.
FRG.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.91)
LMS
GRAY
Tokyo
3
Dated February 26, 1036
Rec'd 2: c0 2. m.
2
Secretapy of state,
as ington.
39, ebruary 0, 11 n. n.
Cre. The Tokyo Hic   in an extra tonight
states Wat  ome inister Goto has been appointed as
f
temporary acting Penier.
Two. The  bassy has learned frem a reliable in-
C
forant who talked with Count akino this evening hat
C
Makino was reither killed nor vounded.
GR
CSB
一
7

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.95)
894002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 266
SEE ....894.00/564.
FOR TelS?.Noon
FROM .... Japan
(.Grow
) DATEDFeb26.1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
Uprising in nature of Coup d'etat: Assassinated Premier Okada;
REGARDING:
Home Minister Goto; Finance Minister Takahashi wounded, reportedly
dying.
FRG.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
CA
Gray
TOKIO
Dated Feb. 26, 1936.
Rec'd 2:18 a.m.
Secrotary of State,
Washington.
RUS:!.
37, Feb. 26, noon.
:mbassy's 36, Feb. 26, 10 a.m.
One. It now anpears fairly certain that former Premier
Admiral Saito, tormer Lord Keener cf the Privy Seal Count
P
Makino, Grand hrbeplain Airal Suzuki, and General
力
Watanabe, Inspeet or enerul of ilitary Education, have bee
assassinated. It is also ruportud tiat Finance Minister
Takahashi and the Chief of the Metropolitan Folice Board 
C
C
been wounded.
564
Two. The Military have established a cordon around the
district containing the Government administration offices
and the Imperial Falace and do not permit ingress without
army passes. Telephonic conmunication with the administrativ.
offices his also been stopped. The stock exchange has been
closed.
EHD SACTION ONE.
GREW.
JS

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
CA
Gray
TOKIO
Dated Feb. 26, 1936.
Rec'd 2:12 a.m.
Secretary o State,
Washinton.
37 (S CTION TWO)
Three. It has been reported that Premier Okada, Home
Minister Goto and former War Hinister Hayashi were also
assassinated end that Finance Minister Takahashi has died
of his wounis. The imbassy cannot confirm any of these
rumors.
Four. So far there has been no disorder and no street
fi htin as far us the mt ussy is aware. The troops takin
part in the uprisiny appear to be under perfect discipline
and are not interfering with normal affairs of the people.
Until the nature and probable results of the uprising are
better understeod by the Embassy however the Embassy is
at
advising  those who ask to remain/. home. There appears
to be absolutely no (repeat no) anti-foreign feeling √
involved in tie affair. iND SECTION TWO.
GREW.
JS

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
McL
Gray.
Tokyo.
Datod Fobruary 26, 1936.
Roccived 3.44 a.m.
Sccret ry of Statc,
Washington.
37 (scction 3)
Five. A mimeographed statomont was loft by
groups of soldiors at cach of the principal newspaper
officos this morning.
The stetemont alloged that the
presont governmont had becn drifting away from tho truev
spirit of Japan and that it had usurped the prerogetives
of the mperor. As evidence of this statement cited the
signin of the London Naval renty and the dismissal o
General azakia. It continuel rather vaguely with an
exnression translated by the inited Press about as
follows: "If this condition s permitted to continue,
the relations of Janan to Chinc, Russia, Britain and
the Inited States will become 'explosive in nature'".
The statement was sined by Japtain Nonaka and Captain
Ando, both of the Third Infantry regiment stationed in
Tokyo. According to the soldiors who delivered the
statement another announcement will be ade at five o'clock
this evening
and at

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.92)
-2- Scc. 3, 37 from Tokyo.
and at that timo" a now law of strto" vill bo promul-
gated. The mbassy's infor ant be;ioves that cortain
constitutional prorogatives vill bo susnended. Ho
likuned lu uxisting situ tion to the Batisto coupd'utat
in eu a. (nd sc. 3.)
GR!.
JS
McL

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
A:portion of
this telegran must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated February 26,1936
to anyne. (A)
Rec'd 4:52 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
RUSH
37, February 26, 10 a. 1. (SICTION FOUR).
Six. As far as the Embassy has yet been able to
ascertain the uorising is in the nature of a coup d'etat
engineered by the young Fascisi: element in the army and
intended to destroy the entire roup of elder statesmen
who have been advisers to the Throne and thereby to
effect the so-called "Slowa restoration". The Emperor
himself is anparently being held inconumunicado in the
Palace presumably to prevent anyone from obtaining access
to him and securing an Imperial mandate which would inter-
fere with the plans of the army group. The immediate
causes of the uprising appoar to have been the recent
election which returned an unexpectedly large number
of tho more liberal candidates and the trial of Aizawa,
murderer of General Nagata, which has excited the feel-
ings of the Fascist eloment in thc army.
Latest reports indicate that General Mazaki is the
leading

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.92)
FS
2-No. 37, Feb. 26 from Tokyo (Suction Four)
leacing spirit in the a fair  n tiv t Admiral Osuni,
Hinister of the Havy, has as umed the position of
actiny  rime Hinister. he movement appears to have
buon t croughly organized in a vance down to the last
detail.
(eRAY). Seven. The Embessy has just learned from
a fairly reliable source thct Count Makino is safe.
(ND)SSG).
HPD
:R0!

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/582
Te1/73, 5pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/
FROM
U.S.S.R.
Bullitt
) DATED Fob 28,1936.
TO
NAME
1-1197
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936: Appointment of Prime Minister:
REGARDING:
2
Information,received by Litvinov from the Soviet Ambassa-
9
dor in Tokyo, states that it is believed that Prince Kanoye,
President of the House of Peers, will become Prime Minister;
Masaki having no chance whatever.
FRG.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
LMS
A portion of this telegram
Moscow
must be closely paraphrased
before being comnunicated
Dated February 28, 1936
to anyone. (C)
Rec'd 1:25 n. m.
x
Secretary of State,
as ington.
RSH.
73, February 28, 5 n. 1.
(y) Litvinov has just informed me that he has
894.
receave? today the following poports from the Soviet
Ambassador in Tokye:
Prince Saior ji advised t o Lmperor to have no nego-
0
tiations vith the mutireons u to treat thcn with the
0
utmost se crity.
582
The troops loyal to the governmont are in complote
control of Tokyo.
Tero is no chance whatever that Masaki will be-
como pire inister.
It is now believed in Tokyo that Prince Kanoye,
V
President of the Mouse of Poers, will become Prime Hinis-
ter
Iitvinov said that fron the point of view of the
Soviet union the whole situation looked brighter than
yesterday as it now seemed unlikely that an extreme
militarist could becomo Prime Ministor. (END GRAY).
Dr.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.97)
LMs 2-No. 73, Fobruary 23, 5 p. m. from Moscow.
Dr. Yon, Chineso Ambassador, exprossod tho opinion
to mo that increased pressuro on China was not to bo ex-
pected for several woeks.
1LITT
HPD

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/588
FOR
Tel/61, 7pm
FROM
Japan
Grew
..) DATED
Feb 29, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.002/
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936.
REGARDING:
Prime Minister Okada, believed assassinated during-, is alive
and uninjured, according to information obtained.
268
FRG.
268

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.94)
—FE
894.002
MJP
A portion of this tele-
gram must be closely
Tokyo
paraphrased before being
communicated to anyone.
Dated February 29, 1936
(B)
c 9:30 a.m.
Soeretary sf State,
Washi sten.
1, F br ary S, 7 p. m.
(GHAY)
I ax i f crmed by Baren Hayashi, former Grand Master
of Ceremenies, whe has just returned from the Palace,
that Prin ister Ckada is a ive and uninjured. It
uppears tt is br ther-in-law whe somewhat resembles
0
him was killed by mistake and that the Premier escaped
588
and has been under cover since the night of February
25th. It is said that he suddenly announced himself to
the mperor whereupon Acting Frime Minister Goto re-
sifned the Premiership which was resumed by Okada. The
saperor is officially reported to have expressed great
pleasure at Ckada's reappearance. (END GRAY)
The implications of this dramatic turn of events
are too obvious to need comment. Our first reaction
to the circumstances of the past four days is that they
may well cause a revulsion of feeling against the
military throughout the country and that the final
results

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.86)
MJP -2- No. 51, February 29, 7 p. m. from Tokyo
results may be salutary.
 loar. tt from 1s t f0 ffiepo et 1rher than
the rank cf captair were loyeived i tr e insareomey.
Theeir fate is u kowr. tut it is e. rully thouht from
the tone of tlhn anneuncement tlat t ey may have reer.
allowed t commit suici ic.
hopeated to Poipir.
PT

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
894.02
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00/591
FOR
Tel#52, 6pm
FROM ....Japan
Grew
--) DATED
March 1, 1936.
TO
NAME
1--1127
894.002/269
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936
Formation of the new cabinet and the appointment of a new
REGARDING:
Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal: No announcement has yet
been made concerning the-,
FRG.
269

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
MG
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated March 1, 1936.
Re 1d 9:35 a.m.
Secretary of State,
494.
Washington.
002
52, Ereh 1, 6 pom.
Oae. Althouh martial law has not yet been lifted
virtually normel conditions
prevail in Tokyo once more.
894.00
The barricudes u ve all been removed, the police have
ruplaced soldiers in putrollin the city, and few troops
are to be seen excupt i1 the neighb rhood of the martial
law headguarters. A considerahle proportion of the troops
15
called into the city during the emergency have apparently
departed.
Two. According to an official announcement only one
of the insurgent officers, Captain Nonaka, comnitted
harakiri and the others are in prison under arrest.
They and five additional officers of low rank have been
dismissed in disgrace from the arny. Their dismissal
without trial is believed to indicate a more drastic policy
than has hitherto been followed in dealing with incidents
ot this type.
Three.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.94)
MG
Page 2,
#52 from Tokyo
Three. No announcement hcs yet been made concerning
the formati on of the rew cabinet and the appointment of
a new Lord Kueper of the Frivy Seal.
GR:W
IIPD

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00/596
Tel#56, Noon
FOR
894.002270
FROM
Japan
Grew
.) DATED
March 4, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-1187
Formation of new cabinet.
REGARDING:
Consultation of various leaders, called by Prince Saionji,
preparatory to formulating his recommendations to the
Throne. The Okada Cabinet, which resigned en bloc, Feb 26,
assuming responsibility for insurrection, is carrying on
its duties as a provisional government.
FRG.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
F
TE
GRAY
FS
Tokyo
Dated March 4,1936
Rec'd 6:34 a. m.
Secretary of State,
ashington.
50, March 4, noon.
Embassy's 53, March 2, noon.
Prince Saionji arrived in Tokyo on March 2 and
894.00
is reported to have called various national leaders
into consultationy preparatory to formulating his re-
conmendations to the Throne in regard to the composi-
tion of the next Cabinet.
any of the important Japan-
75
ese newspapers editorially demand the formation of a
really strong national Cabinct capable of stabilizing
the situation. Conditions are still too nebulous,
however, to permit any prediction as to the personnel
of the next Cabinet. In the meantime, the Okada
Cabinet which resigned en bloc on February 26 assuming
responsibility for the insurrection is carrying on its
duties as a provisional government.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
JS

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/597
Tel#58, 6pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
-.) DATED
March 4, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-1197
894.002/
Formation of new cabinet, following coup d'etat of Feb 26, l936.
REGARDING:
Prince Konoye, reportedly,has been inatructed to endeavor to form
a cabinet. Embassy has been unable to obtain official confirma-
tion.
271
FRG.
271

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.96)
F S
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated March 4,1936
Rec'd 7:15 a. m.
002
Secretary of State,
874.
Washington.
58, March 4, 6 p. m.
Enbassy's 56, March 4, noon.
894.
The news agencies report that Prince Konoye has
been instructed to endeavor to form a Cabinet. The
00
bassy has been unable to obtain official confirma-
en
tion and officials who have been interviewed profess
Inability to confirm or deny the report. They intimate,
however, willingness to accent the report as trustworthy.
McL:HPD
GREW

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/601
Tel#60, 6pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/
FROM
Japan
Grew
-) DATED
March 5, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
Formation of new cabinet, following Coup d'etat of Feb 26,
REGARDING:
1936.
272
Foreign Minister Hirota has received Imperial command to
form a cabinet; now conferring with various leaders.
FRG.
272

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
1O0D
GRAY
31
TOKYO
2
Dated Harch 5, 1936
0
Reccived 6:55 a.m.
Sccretary of State,
894.
Washington
60. Harch 5, 6 p.m.
It hes been announced that Foroign Ministor rota
has recuived tho Imporial co unnd to form a Gabinot.
0
He . row conforring with verious lenders.
0
GREW
0
CSD

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/602
Tel¥61, 9pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/273
Japan
Grew
March 6, 1936
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
Formation of new cabinet.
REGARDING:
Hirota, evidently meeting with difriculties from the Army,
has not yet succeeded in-, The appointments of Yuasa, Lord
Keeper of the Seals, and of Matsudaira, as Household Minis-
ter, have been announeed.
FRG.
2
73

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.94)
MJP
GRAY
Tokyo
Deted March 6, 1936
Roc'd 10:20 a. m.
Secretory of State,
nshington.
61, March 6, 9 p. m.
irota is now endeavoring to form a Cabinet but
ras met certain difficulties, anparently with the
army, and has not yet succecded.
he anpointnents of Yuara, Lord Keeper of the
f
Seals, and of Hntsudaira, ormorly Ambassador to Great
Britain, as Household Minis or heve been announced.
O
C
GRE
KLP:CSB
O
2

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..894.00/606
FOR
Tel#63, 9pm
FROM .....Japan
Grew
..) DATED
March 7, 1936
894.002/274
TO
NAME
1-1187
Formation of new cabinet, following Coup d'etat of Feb 26, l936.
REGARDING:
Selection of General Terauchi as the next Minister of War was
dictated by his seniority. Further, General Terauchi's state-
ment of March 6 regarded as setting forth the position of the
Army toward make-up of new cabinet.
FRG.
274

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
MT
Tokyo
A portion of this
telegram must be
Dated March 7, 1936
closely paraphrased
before being communi-
Rec1d 2:33 p.m.
cnter to anyone. (B)
Sec etary of State,
0
Fashington.
63, Narch 7, 9 p.m.
0
GCHN ID.TI.L.
894.
Following  peitey of a statument made
tohe to the ln li tary Attme e by an officer of the
general staff. Inninted thet e cane as a personal
frend and not officially bt there is no doubt that
894.
e vas directed to explain e situation to Lieuten-
ant Colonel Crane.
0
(GrAY) One. The incident of February 26 was
0
planned and oxecuted by oficers forming the ignorant
9
ralical fringe of the nati ve listic group to which
90
all officers belong. Non-conissioned officers and men
mev nothing of the of icers' real purpose as they
worc told they vere to tate part in a night maneuver.
Two. The total number of extreme radicals among
officers is not kmown but is believed to be small.
3trenuous efforts are being made throughout the country
by

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
MET
2-#63 from Tokyo, March 7, 9 p.m.
by the police and military police to locate and round
up "direct actionists" among civilians and officers.
The s ame small group of radicals was responsible for
the May loti und uil ubsequent ineidents.
Three. Cor uformant dees not believe that any
rebel ffie  wh sey ed re ut:11 ut large. Three
officers cormi tt d suie de. ere muicides are expected
later when oppor t io  ordet. at present while
under ins tructi ns by the ilitur poli ce they are
unable to harm themselves.
Four. The retirement of the senior army members
of the Supreme Mili tary Council (including Araki and
Mazakia) is due to their assumption of responsibility
f.r tue incident. General Minami, the senior general
in the army, will also retire on his return from Man-
churia.
Five. Gener l Terxuchi's selection as the next
Hinister of War ond General Veda's designation as Mina-
mi's success or were dictated by their seniority, all
men senior to them havi; retired.
Six. The arny approves of Hirota as premier and
of his foreign policy but dislikes the type of "status
quo" cabinet indicated by his
first

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
MDT
3-763 from Tokyo, March 7, 9 p.m.
first selection. In particular the army wants a
non-political man as Homo Minister. The army has no
ambition to form a strictly military cabinet, realiz-
in thet it is not qualified for the task. It insists
on a progresive, vigorous cabinet.
Seven. The army's posit on is expresse clearly
in Gene al Terauchit sta o ont ye terday: "the Govern-
met rust lave cebermrn 
and eonra e bo effect
ra ical reforas, to dc eway  t traditional evils, to
carry out a strony and positive policy in providing
adequate national defense, et cetera. It must not be
compromising, leaning toverd the status quo and tinged
wit liberalism. There ust be a renovation of natinal
admnistration through positive policies. Anything
compromis ng or reactionary wuld not only fail to
moet te situation but wold cggravate it, creating
an overlasting sourco of ovi ." Repeated to Peining.
GREV
JS

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
To1/65, 10pm
SEE.....894.00/608
FOR
FROM
Japan
(..GreW
) DATEDMarch1936
894.002/275
TO
NAME
1-1187
Formation of cabinet by Hirota.Hirota will, at least temporarily,
REGARDING:
continue as Foreign Minister. Baba has been selected Minister
of Finance; Count Terauchi, Minister of War; Nagano, Navy;
Ushio, Home affairs; Hayashi, Justice. The cabinet apparently
has the support of the two principal political parties.
FRG.
275

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
LMS
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated March 9, 1936
Rec'd 12:45 p. m.
Secrctary of State,
ashington.
65, Harch 9, 10 . .
Vivota has succeeded ir. forming a Cabinet. He will
at least terporarily continue as Foreign Minister owing
to h e aruy's disa proval ef Yos) ida. Other lHinisters
of importance e e atn, na ce; Count Terauchi, War;
894.
Nagano, Navy; Uahio, Hono Af nirs; Hayashi, Justice.
Baba is a well-kmown banker of conservative lean-
0
ings who has been President of the Hypothec Bank for
0
several yoars. The choice is generally considered a
6
good ono as he has no strong a filiations with any
C
8
noli ical or financial groups, knows tho agricultural
land situation and is thoroughly familiary with long-
term financing.
Goneral Torauchi is the son of the late Count Terau-
chi and has the roputation of being indopendont and
alliod vith no faction in tho army. Ho has no known
political affiliations and is said to be popular in
army circles and to have no prejudices in regard to
foreign countries.
Admiral Nagano is well known to the Department.
Ushio

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
L1S 2-No. 65, March 9, 10 p. m. from Tokyo.
Ushio is a member of the House of Poers and has
held a number of administraiive positions of importance
including the post of Vice inister of Home Affairs. He
is highly respected and ap ears to have been chosen be-
cause of his knowledge of administration. He will be
concurrently Minister of Education.
Hayashi has had a distinguished career in the Min-
istry o' Justice having sorved as Vice Minister, as
Procurator General, and as presidins judge of the Court
of Cassation.
Full reports on these an! other members of the
new Cabinet will be sent by mail. The Cabinet appears
to have the support of the two principal political
parties as members of each o? them have portfolios.
The choices for Home and Justice posts indicate an in-
vestigation of these departments which the public has
long demanded.
It seoms probable that soparate Ministors for For-
cign Affairs and Education ill be appointed subsequently
whon Hirota has had timo to canvass tho situation more
at loisurc.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
8
THE UNDER SECRETARY
OF STATE
MAR 10 1926
DIVISION
DEPARTMENT
DIVISION OF
March 5, 193
DCR
Division of
MAR 10 1936
lug
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOTED
KOKI HIROTA
Department of State
Koki Hipóta has been Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs since September 14, 1933. He was born in Fukuoka
on the 1sland of Kyushu in February 1878. His father was a
stone dealer. After graduating in 1905 from the Tokyo
Imperial University, Faculty of Law, he entered the diplo-
matic service and served first in Peking. In l909 he was
894.002/276
transferred to London and in 1914 returned to Tokyo as a
section chief in the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office.
In 1918 he was made First Secretary at Washington. In 1921
he was made chief of the Second Section of the Intelligence
Bureau of the Foreign Office. In 1922 he went as Counselor
to London. In 1923 he was chief of the Bureau of European
and American Affairs in the Foreign Office, in 1926 Minister
to Holland, and in l929 a representative at the League of
Nations. In l930 he went to the Soviet Union as Ambassador.
His only service in the United States was as First Secretary
from 1919 to 1921.
MAR 11 1936
Mr. Hirota enjoys a unique position in Japanese politics
by reason of his association with a patriotic society called
the Koburyu Kai (Blgok Dragon Society). This organisation
had its origin in Fukuoka, Hirota's native Province, at the
time of the Russo-Japanese War, 1904-1905, under the leadership
of

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of Mitsuru Toyama and Ryuhei Uohida, both of whom have simee
become conspiouous public figures in the chauvinist movement.
An aim of the society was Japanese expansion in Manchuria.
Throughout his career Hirota has maintained his membership
and still continues the habit of consulting the leaders of
the organization. For the first time a Foreign Minister who
is not a soldier has kept the confidence of the military
because of the backing of a strong patriotic society.
Hirota has often been mentioned as a probability for the
premiership, and he has played his hand carefully with that
office in view. His avoidance of connection with either of
the political parties was deliberate, and the present popular
disfavor into which the political parties have fallen confirms
the wisdom of his judgment in this matter.
The Embassy at Tokyo, as early as May 3, 1935, mentioned
the frequently suggested idea of Hirota's becoming the next
prime minister.
CC
CC/DLY

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ...894.00/614.
FOR
Memorandum
894.002/277
State Department
Far Eastern Div.
FROM
(..Hornbeck....) DATED
March 5. 1936
TO
NAME
1-1197
Situation in Tokyo
REGARDING:
Hirota as Premier: Possible effect on Japan's China policy.
FRG.
277

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/613
Tel#74, 7pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/278
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
March 13, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
Foreign policies of the Government under Hirota's leadership
REGARDING:
as Prime Minister: Former policy, in effect, when he was
Minister for Foreign Affairs, to prevail. According to Hirota,
all members of the Cabinet are in accord with this policy,
and eventually he mould select a Foreign Minister equally in
sympathy with it.
FRG.
298

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
LMS
Tokyo
This telegram rust be
closcly paraphrasod be-
Datod March 13, 1936
foro being communicated
to anyono. (B)
Roc'd 1:30 p. m.
Secretary of Stato,
Hashington.
OTE
74, l'arch 13, 7 n. n.
One. Tho Prime Minister received me today.
Two. He said that his former policy as Hinister
for Foreign Affairs would cortinue without any change
894.
whatsoever and tha it wo id now always prevail owing
to his position as hee!  e overnment. He added
00
that all (repeat all) me.i rs of the Cabinet were in
accord with his policy and that he would evontually
seledt a Foreign Minister equally in sympathy with that
policy.
13
Three. I observed that the press was constantly
taling about the new governnent following a "positive
dinlomacy" and I asked if he would define this term.
Hirota said that the term anplied exclusively to Soviet
Russia and China and sinply meant the speeding up of
the polic: already enunciated.
Four. As regards Soviet Russia the army desired
the establishment of defensive forces in Manchuria
more nearly equalling the Soviet forces in Siberia. He
said, however, that there would be no (repeat no)
war

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
LMS 2-No. 74, March 13, 7 p. m. from Tokyo.
war whilo he was in office. A Jananeso war with Sovict
Russia would bo stupid becauso both parties would have
everything to loso and nothing to gain.
94
Five. As regards Chine the Japanese Government
793.
would procced on the basis of the three points already
enunciated. I asked him to define these three points.
He did so as follows.
(a) Cessation of anti-Japanese propaganda and
activity.
(b) Recognition of tho existence of Mauchukuo
and regularization of factmal relations such as communi-
cations, transit, custors, ct cetera. This need not
(repeat not) imply de jure recognition.
(c) Sino-Japanese cooperation to combat the spread
of conmunism.
Theso three points he said had been accepted in
principle by tho Chinose Government and would form the
basis for nogotiations.
Six. I said that I would bo glad if the Prime Min-
ister could authorizo mo to roassuro my government con-
cerning the protection of foreign rights and interests
in connection with the pursuance of Japan's policy in
China including the preservation of the principle of
the open door. The Prime Minister said that the
principle

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
LiiS 3-No. 74, March 13, 7 p. m. from Tokyo.
principle of the open door would not be injured by Japan.
The only possible result of Jepan's policy in China which
might indirectly affect forein rights and interests so
far as he could see would bu the possible relinquish-
mont for purpose alloged of her extra-territorial rights
in China as an eventual result of future negotiations.
Sevon.
The Prime Minister said that he saw no
94
serious problcns existing between Japan and the United
States. In this connection I took occasion on my own
initiative and after stating that I was not speaking
under instructions to mention the difficulties encoun-
tered by the Government in asnington arising out of
the inereasing flow of cheap Japanose goods into the
American markets. I spoke of the cooperativo steps of
our Government to solve the problem through friendly
and informal discussions with the Japanese Embassy in
Washington and tho mutual offorts to find equitable and
practical solutions of tho difficultics. Nevertheless
pressure on our Government from domestic industrial
interests was becoming increasingly heavy and I might
eventually have to appeal to im for more restrictive
efforts on the part of the Government of Japan. I la-
beled these observations as entirely informal but thought
it bost to leave this thought in the Prime Minister's
mind.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.96)
LiiS 4-No. 74, March 13, 7 p. m. from Tokyo.
mind.
Paragraphs ono to six inclusive ropoatod to Poi-
ping.
GRIW
CSB

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
Di
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JS
This telegram must be
closely'puraphrased be-
FROM
fore being communicated
TOKYO
to anyone (C)
Dated March 18, 1936
002
Rec'd 4:33 a.m.
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN FFAIRS
Washington,
MAR 11936
C
Department of State
76, March 18, noon
894.002/279
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
The Embassy is informed by high official authority
that it is the present intention of the Prime Minister
to offer the Foreign Ministry to Arita when latter
returns from his present tour around China probably
n ext month. This plan is however still tentative and
we are requested to regard the information as strictly
confidential.
GREW
JS
MAR 21 1936
FILED
F/FG

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJP
GRAY
Nanking via N R
1-1806
FROM
Dated March 19, 1936
Secretary of State,
A
Washington.
COPIES SENT TOL
MAR 181936
Department of State
57, March 19, 11a.
m.
An officer of the Japanese Embassy today denied
894.002/280
the truth of a report published yesterday by the semi-
official Central News Agency to the effect that the Embassy
had officially announced that Arita would not return
to China. Andri informed me the question of Arita's
future has not been determined.
KLP
PE CK

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE....894..00..P.R./18
FOR
1693
894.002/281
FROM .. Japan
Grew
.) DATED ....Fab.2l..1936.
TO
NAME
1-1137
Annual New Year statement by Premier Okada.
REGARDING:
FRG.
281

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
In his annual New Year stetement Premier Okada
expressed cratification over the steady enhancement of
Japan's national prestiee and over the "sound &rowth"
of "Manchukuo", referred to the "just and fair clai. s"
put forth by Japan at the London Naval Conference, stated
that the Government was determined to have honest voting
in the fcrthcoming ceneral elections for tlie Lower house
cf the Diet, and asserted that means must be provided
for parliamentary government "to bear splendid fruit".

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00/629
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
Far Bastern Div.
FROM
Coville
.) DATED Mar171936
TO
NAME
1-1197
894.002/
The Coup and the formation and composition of the new cabinet.
REGARDING:
FRG.
282

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE...894.00/616
FOR ...Tel#75...llam.
FROM ...Japan
()reN.) DATEDerch..1BlR36..
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1187
Statement of policy issued by the Cabinet last night.
REGARDING:
Comments on-, also advises of national reaction.
283
FRG.
283

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPIES SENT TO
JS
1-1806
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
FROM
This telegram must be
002
94.
closely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
fore being communicated
to anyone (C)
Dated April 4, 1936
Rec'd 10:45 p.m. 3rd
Secretary of State,
894.
Washington, D.C.
FAB TASTESN AFFAIRS
APR 1 1936
84, April 4, 11 a.m.
Departiment of State
894.002/284
Embassy's 76, March 18, noon
Hachiro Arita, recently Ambassador to China, has
been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and took
office on the evening of April 2. Confidential biograph-
ical report dated :larch 2, 1936, previously sent to the
Department.
GREW
SMS ECC
APR 9.1936.
FILED

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.94)
(CONVIDENTIAL)
PARAPHRASX
A telegram (No. 84) of April 4, 1936, from the
American Ambassador at Tokyo, reads substantially es
follows:
On the evening of april 2 Hachiro Arita wao was
recently Ambassador to China assumed the office of
Minister for "oreign affeirs to whioh he has been
appointed.
894.002/284
Eg.C.
FE:EGC
FE
11
IV-6-36

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.95)
THE UNDER SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
APR 4 - 1936
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF RTATE
cR
Division of
BSTEN AFFAIRS
AP6 2- 1930
April 3
7E
4
AM 11 21
APR 9 - 1936
NOTED
Department of State
mr. Hachiro Arita.
4CF
A despatch from Tokyo in THE NEW YORK TIMES this
morning reports that Mr. Hachiro Arita, until recently
894.
Japanese Ambassador to China, has been installed as Foreign
Minister in Mr. Hirota's cabinet. Mr. Arita is a career
diplomat and has had the following assignments: First
Secretary of Embassy in Washington in 192l; First Secretary
894.002/28
of Legation, Peiping, in l923; Consul General at Honolulu,
Chicago, and Ottawa; Counselor of Embassy in Berlin; Chief
of the Asiatic Bureau of the Foreign Office, l927; Minister
to Austria and Hungary, 1930; Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs, 1932; Ambassador to Belgium, 1933; Ambassador to
285
China, 1936.
Mr. Arita became prominent in 1932 when he was appointed
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs under Mr. Yoshizawa, at a
time when there was going on a bitter foud in the Foreign
AH
FILED
Office between two factions, one composed of a militarily
inclined clique lead by Mr. Shiratori, the notorious Fore1
Office spokesman; and the other composed of a more moderato
group which carried on the tradition of Baron Shidehara.
Mr. Arita soon came to assume leadership of this moderate
F/FG
group.
The

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The following quotation from a despatoh of May 84,
1933, from Tokyo is of interest: "The 1ll-feeling between
Arita and the chauvinists reached a climax at the time of
Japan's withdrawal from the League of Nations, Arita being
a staunch advocate of remaining in the League, while the
chauvinistic element desired immediate withdrawal. # * *
as the chauvinistic element had the backing of the Foreign
Minister himself and of the military authorities, Arita
found it advisable to resign. * * * the Japanese Government
has lost another official representing the more moderate
olements.
"Mr. Arita, who was friendly to the United States and
sincerely believed in the paramount importance to Japan of
close and friendly relations with the United States, was
the prinoipal contact man for this Embassy with the Foreign
Office and could always be relied upon to give a sympathetio
hearing to any representations, formal or informal, which
the Embassy might make. His resignation, therefore, is a
distinct loss to the Embassy."
being
Although Mr. Arita has the reputation of/a liberal
and although it may be expected that he will exert his best
offorts toward maintaining frimndly relations with the
United States, it should be noted that his appointment first
as Ambassador to China and later as Foreign Minister has met
with no opposition from the military group which succeeded
Shigurie
in preventing the appointment of Mr. Yoshida, first nominee
(1)
to

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.86)
- 3 -
↑ to the post of Foreign Minister in Mr. Hirota's new cabinet.
It would, therefore, seem likely that no deoided change in
Japanese policy toward China may be expeoted in consequence
of Mr. Arita's appointment as Foreign Minister.
SH
mx
FB:WTT/DLY

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE...024.00/626
FOR ...Memorandum
State Department
894.002/
Far Eastern Div.
FROM
(..Phillips.......) DATED ...)March.17..)R..
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese political situation: Appointment of new Foreign Minister.
2
Mr. Arika, present Japanese Ambassador to Chine, according
8
to latest reports, will be mamed Minister of Foreign Affairs.
6
This according to Jepanese Ambassador, who compared the pre-
sent situation to a boil, whieh, having burst, would quiet
down for a considerable time.
FRG.
2
86

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.93)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/637
FOR
1736
FROM.
Japan
Grew
..) DATED
March 18, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.002/
Hirota Cabinet
REGARDING:
Formation of the-,
287
FRO.
2
中
1

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.97)
874002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/638
FOR 1733
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED arch 19,1936
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1187
Policy of the Hirota Cabinet and public opinion thereanent.
REGARDING:
288
FRG.
2
8
8

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 21, 1936.
Harbin's despatch No. 335, March 17,
1936, reports on reaction in Harbin to
the Hirota Cabinet. The press welcomes
Hirota's appointment and states that,
although the Premier does not seem to
have renounced his liberal thought and
conoiliatory policy, which he must do in
order to steer the ship of state success-
fully, he at least has promised the
military a strong and positive policy.
Japanese civilians generally approve
Hirota's appointment but they fear
that new financial policies will produce
increased military expenditures with
greater liability of war. They are
doubtful that Hirota will be able to
keep the army in cheok but they do not
believe war is likely in the near future.
Jcr
JCV/VDM

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.92)
NO. 335
7
HARBIN, MANCHURIA, March 17, 1936.
1936 APR 20 AM 10 57
.F
COM
TIONS
G
894.002
AND RECORDS
Aunnyholf
ONY 171D
SUBJECT:
R N : R. I. IN.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.1.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
livision of
FAR EASTERN AFTAIRS
NN
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
epartment of Stat
ASSIS
894.002/289
I have
the honor so enclose a copy of uy despatch
  erch 17, less, to the ricn , Fi-
Respectfully yours,
Groy, 0. tamont
Geurge. ent,
American Consil.
25 1936.
Enclosures:-
Copy of despatch No.215 to
the Embussy, Feiping, together
with enclosure.
In quintuplicate.
800
HMB: ne
F/FG
'1

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.89)
No.213
    .
HARBIN, YANCHURIA, MarOD 17, 1956.
 T:
 HI A AIN: ELTIN IN ARBIN.
Tte phereble
Holson rusler Jsinson,
Amerioen mtaisedor,
eiin~, hine.
sir:
 tave the ponor to re ar to the recent formetlen of
the trete it tn an,  to e reeotiens taereto
whioh heve come to the atteuticn   Jonsulete lenerel.
ditorlel comuent ln all the perspa: ers wns favorable
toward :r. irota, ane the belie? wes expressed that he
would be ablo to bring ahcut "unlty" if enyone oould. The
HARBIN NIJHINICHT commented on Maroh 12 (oopy of tranala-
1/
tion enolomed) that "although the "remier does not soem to
have renounoes hta lit ral thvught and conoilintory polloy.
which ho sust do in order to steer tho ship of state susoese-
fully, re at loast hna oromlsad the mllitery a atrong and
positivs polloy." The inoident of Fobruary 26, 1t contimued,
although a blow to the rmy, neverthelees emphasized the
dominating lmportanoe of the military in national affaire,
and indioates that the Jovernment had no oho!oe but to
follow the Army's polioy. Thoro was aocordingly some hope
that the new cabinet might to something "to anewer the
national demand" and could afford to ismore buremuoratio
and party influemoes. fith regard to forelgm affairs,
the editorial stated thot Mr. Hirota, listening to Army
- arguments, -

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.90)
arguments, had promised a strons and positive polioy,
contrery to his former polioies motivated by paeiristio and
liberal thought whieh disolored the "diaharmony" betweem
politios and strategy, end exposed the country to soorn.
The larbin Wioniniohi, as hud veen roported rrequontly,
is obviously tho mouthplooe of the looal lilitary Mission,
eln: llltless thr opinione exp ussod in the editorial coin-
oide with the idets  any rflcers of the wantune amy.
Although apenssu olvilians, both offioials and mer-
chants, show great reluctunoe to disouss politioul affairs,
there nevertheless vas vicont a consi derable di splay of
rellef when the catinet aue firred.
n soneral, the
releotlon of r. ito s Ived.
osttenne
noro re tu h to bo covertl anti-ry. Pey or them
bave th: courage to say , ovon in privete conversation,
although one railir orficll vent co rer ns to rewanrk be
fore the sabi net wcs forand thnt "noy ie the time to suppreee
the rmy.He rp ronty v sapsinted in thet hop,
and well-inforand apanose are nor fastoning their ettention
on the neture of the ellegod opnoesslons made by r. H-
rotn to the rmy bofore Jonor-l Ternuchi concented to Join
the overmmt.
he great feer expreaued by sone le that
the new finanoln' polloles, whion will prohably include
Increased military expenditures, togothor with a derinite
desire for wmr mith coviet Russis arone many army crricere.
will bring about an armed confliot. There seeme to be
little doubt that the majority of Japanese in Harbin do
not favor suoh motion, cnd several have expressod the fear
that tho army misht find it necessary to create a war to
"uniry" the country, which would remult in Japen's complete
collepee. However, most of them do not believe wer is
likely in the near future, and there is almost no evidemee
- ( 1-

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.91)
(ezoept in the nevspepers) of e desire so settle thiags vith
the soviet Uaion onoe and for all. It is hoped by most
edueated Japeaese that Mr. Xirote will be able to keep
the Army in cheok, althoust consinerable porsimim in that
regard hes been voloed.
YosT cotrully yours,
Jeorge D. Lavont,
Ameriean Conell.
Enclosure:-
1/translation of editorial
appeering in the :RBIN
NICHINICHI of Meroh 18.1936.
rive ooples to the moartoont v
despatoh No.335 of aroh 17, 1936.
Copy to the mbaaey, Tanking.
Jopy to the mbassy, Tokyo.
Jopy to the Jonellita Janeral, ikden.
Copy to the Consulate, Dalren.
800
YH:ne
Truero
the or

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.97)
ping, of Marek 17, 19ss, from the merieee Ca
Gemeral, Harbim, Manshuria, on the subjeet of "The
rota Cabimet: Reastion in Harbim".
SOURC: HARBIN NICHINICHI, J
language daily, issue of
Maroh 12, 1936.
Translated by the American
Consulate Jeneral, Harbin,
Manohuria.
HIROTA CADINAT FORLMED.
(sditorial). The irota Covernment. whioh was feared to
prove abortive because oi disharmony with the military, has
at last come to existence; and the susoess of l'r. Hirota,
notwithstandins the i ifioulties whioh he underwent, must be
oongratulatei by the whole natlon if only because of the
pressine need for the restoration of internul peace, whion
Is still maintainel by murtial law. It romains to be seen
whether the ove: nnent, wich hes alreedy caused anxiety in
the process of formation, will be able to fulfill the national
requirenenta for conplute internal reconstruction, and in
foreign relntions.
"e think. however, we neod not be possimistio in this
respeot for, although r. irote does not appear to have
totally renounced his liberal thought and international conei-
liation polioy, (which he must do in order to steer successfully
through waters troubled by high waves demanding reform and
advance), yet he has promised the militaiy to exeroise a
strong and powerful polioy. The Tokyo inoident cost the mili-
tary dearly, but at the same time it has added dominating im-
portance to the position of the military in the netional poliey.
The Government has now no ohoice but ultimately to fcllow the
strong polioy or the military.
This is the reason, the only reason, for our belief that
the irota Coverni.cnt, despite its weakness in certain regards.
will do something in enswer tc the national demand. The
bureauoratio end party influences participating in the Covern-
ment may well be ignored.
What we at the foremost line of defense are concerned with
is the polioy of the new overnment toward Chine and the Soviet
Russia. The mew Govermment has already announoed that it will
adopt an independent and strong foreign polioy, listening to
arguments and reasons presented by the military. Fitherto
Mr. Hirota's polioy. known as an independent hut conciliatory
diplomacy, was in reelity one of paoifim and liberalistio
thought. Surely it has had the merit of being a remedy to the
strome military poliey, but at the same time it disclosed dis-
harmony between polities and strategy, and the dual polioy ex-
posed the country to foreign soorn. This was kmown by every-
body and regretted everywhere. We are not yet told of the
new fareige polisy in its conorete form, but perhaps the wrens
will be correeted, and we pay rely upon the Hirota Govermpemt.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.97)
19.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..894.00/643
FOR
1758
894.002/
FROM ..
Japan
Grew
) DATED Apr11_111936
TO
NAME
1-1197
Policies of the Hirota Cabinet: Development of the-,
REGARDING:
290
FRG.

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./100
FOR
Desp.#1781
894.002/
Japan
Grew
pr.16,1936.
FROM
) DATED
No111
NAME
1-1197
2
6
REGARDING:
Formation of the Hirota Cabinet and its
Statemsnt of Polioy:Reports regarding -.
fpg
6

=== Page 472 === (confidence 1.00)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). Formation of the Hirota Cabinet and its
Statement of Policy.
The Okada Cabinet resigned en bloc on the evening of
February 26 but continued provisionally in office until
March 9 in accordance with the orders of the Emperor.**
The Acting Premier during the first nine days of March was
Admiral Okada whose resignation, submitted to the Emperor
on February 28, was not accepted until the formation of
the Hirota Cabinet on March 9. On March 4 Prince Konoe,
President of the House of Peers, declined the Imperial
Command to form a Cabinet,, alleging ill health as his
reason, and on the following day Mr. Hirota was given
the same command. On March 6 Mr. Hirota tentatively
chose General Count Juichi Terauchi as Minister for
War and between these two men negotiations took place
from March 6 to March 9. Although the newspapers reported
that the Army was opposed to Mr. Hirota as Premier, the
real
See Section III (d) of this report.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1736 of March 18, 1936.

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
-16 -
real hindrance to him in forming a Cabinet was the
objection that he met with on the part of the Army over
certain individuals chosen for posts in the new Cabinet.
According to the press, the Army objected to Mr. Shigeru
Yoshida as Minister. for Foreign Affairs because of his
well-known liberalism and because of his being a son-in-
law of Count Makino, one of the senior statesmen; to Dr.
Hiroshi Shimomura as Overseas Minister because of his
position as Vice President of the ASAHI, which was con-
sidered to be too capitalistic and which had been attacked
by the mutineers on February 26; to Takukichi Kawasaki
as Minister for Education because he was a political
party man; to retention of Mr. Naoshi Ohara as Justice
Minister because he had not been sincere in efforts to
clarify the national polity; and to Mr. Chikuhei Nakajima
as Commerce and Industry Minister because of his interest
in the manufacture of munitions. The Army authorities,
represented by General Terauchi, agreed to cooperate with
Mr. Hirota in the formation of a new Cabinet if the latter
acceded to the four principal demands of the Army, which
were: (1) clarification of the national polity, i. e.
the complete suppression of the Minobe theory and of
liberalism in Japan; (2) an increase in the Army budget
for the building up of a better air force, for the com-
pletion of the mechanization of the Army, and for the
strengthening of the Japanese forces in "Manchukuo" and
at home; (3) stabilization of the livelihood of the people,
that is, economic and political reforms, the establishment
of state control of industries and finance, and readjust-
ment of taxation with an increase of taxes on capitalists
and a decrease on the poorer classes; and (4) the adoption
of a "positive" foreign policy. Although these policies
were

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
-17 -
were labelled "Army demands" by the press generally, it
should be noted that they were supported by large elements
in and out of Government circles who have no affiliations
with the Army. These elements also were opposed to a
certain extent to the appointment of the men to whom the
Army is reported to have objected. Mr. Hirota finally
succeeded in choosine a Cabinet acceptable to the Army.*
Apparently the only point on which he resisted the demands
of the Army was his insistence that the political parties
be substantially represented in the Cabinet. He was
formally installed as Premier by the Emperor on the evening
of March 9 and the complete Cabinet was announced in an
Official Gazette extra of that day as follows: Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Koki Hirota;
Minister for Home Affairs and concurrently Minister for
Education, Shigenosuke Ushio; Minister for Finance, Eiichi
Baba; Minister for War and President of the Manchurian
Affairs Bureau, General Count Juichi Terauchi; Navy Minister,
Admiral Osami Nagano; Justice Minister, Raisaburo Hayashi;
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Toshio Shimada;
Minister for Commerce and Industry, Takukichi Kawasaki;
Communications Minister, Keikichi Tanomogi; Railways
Minister, Yonezo Maeda; and Overseas Minister, Hidejiro
Nagata. Ushio, a member of the House of Peers, had held
a number of important positions in the Home Ministry and
had the reputation of being a very capable administrator.
Baba, a well-known banker and for several years President
of the Hypothec Bank, had no decided affiliations with
any political or financial group and was well versed in
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 1736 of March 18, 1936.

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
the agricultural land situation. General Terauchi was
popular in Army circles and hed the reputation of having
affiliations with no Army faction and with none of the
political parties. Nagano was known for being a highly
capable naval officer, a direct and patriotic negotiator
(he was one of the two delegates to the London Naval
Conference which opened in December, 1935), and a man of
independent leanings from the political point of view.
Hayashi had had a distinguished career in the Ministry
of Justice.* The remaining members of the Cabinet had
not had outstanding careers and were chosen for their
respective posts largely for reasons of expediency and
compromise. The Minseito appointees to the new Cabinet
were Commerce and Industry Minister Kawasaki and Communi-
cations Minister Tanomogi, while the Seiyukai appointees
were Railways Minister Maeda and Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry Shimada. Mr. Hachiro Arita, recently appointed
Ambassador to China, was prominently mentioned by the news-
papers as Mr. Hirota's probable choice for Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
The statement of policy issued by Premier Hirota on
March 17 contained in essence the four basic demands of
the Army which were listed above.**
Furthermore, the statement of policy clearly reflects
the views of the February 26 insurrectionists because
these views were also held by a very considerable part
of the Army and by a large part of the population. The
fundamental desire of the insurgents was a change in the
political status quo. This was brought about.*** Several
of
*
Embassy's telegram No. 65 of March 9, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1733 of March 19, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1735 of March 19, 1936.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 1.00)
of the aims of the rebel officers were accomplished and
others appeared definitely to be a part of the new Govern-
ment's program. At the end of the month it could be safely
predicted that the new Government would be more national-
istic than previous Governments, that it would endeavor
to effect many of the economic, political, and social
reforms so eagerly desired by the February 26 mutineers
and by a large part of the Army, and that on the other
hand, no hasty or radical reforms would be adopted.*
Mr. Takukichi Kawasaki, the Minister for Commerce and
Industry, a member of the Minseito and the only hold -over
besides Mr. Hirota in the new Government, died on March 27
and was succeeded by Dr. Gotaro Ogawa, one of the leaders
of the Minseito, a member of the Diet, and Parliamentary
Vice Minister in the Hamaguchi Cabinet. The post of
Education Minister, which had been held concurrently by
Mr. Ushio, Home Minister, was taken over on March 25 by
Dr. Hachisaburo Hirao, a Member of the House of Peers,
President of the Kawasaki Dockyards, and the Chairman of
the Japanese Economic Mission which went to Brazil last year.
Count Yasuya Uchida, who had five times held the
portfolio of Minister for Foreign Affairs and had also
been President of the South Manchuria Railway, died in
Tokyo on March 12 at the age of 71. As Minister for
Foreign Affairs he was known for his chauvinist tendencies.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.97)
197
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 17, 1936.
EHD:
Tokyo reports that a recently pro-
mulgated ordinanoe provides that hereafter
the Ministers and Vice Ministers of War
and Navy shall be generals and admirals
on the active list. Previously the law
permitted officers on the reserve list to
be appointed to these posts although in
practice none had ever received appointment.
The reason for this amendment is obvious.
894.002/292
(171
WTT/DLY

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.92)
0.12
198
FAF FISIFAN AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JUN 151936
OF THE
Dep…
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1864.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 28, 1936
894.002
SUBJECT: REVISION OF REGULATIONS GOVERNING APPOINTMENT
20t
OF ARMY AND NAVY MINISTERS AND VICE MINISTERS.
994.20
894.30
336  11 2 14
EPAR   ST
641
894.002/292
EED
miD
5
SENT TO
NDMI.D
THE UNDER SECRETARY
The Honorable
1936
The Secretary of State,
OFPARTMENT OF OTATE
Washington.
JUL.2 .1936
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor to transmit herewith the Embassy's
1/
translations of Imperial Ordinance No. 63, which appeared
in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of May 18, 1936, and No. 64, which
appeared in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of May 19, 1936. These
two ordinanoes are amendments of the regulations governing
the organization of the Army and Navy Departments, re-
speotively, and provide that appointment to the posts of
Minister and Vice Minister of the Army and Navy Departments
shall
F

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
199
- 2 -
shall be confined to generals and admirals on the active list.
By an ordinance issued in l913, permission was granted
for the appointment of officers in the first and second
reserves to the above-mentioned posts. Aversion of the
military to the ordinance of l913, coupled with the fact
that no reserve officer was ever appointed either War or
Navy Minister under its authorization, appears to have in-
duced the decision to limit formally by Imperial Ordinances,
the choice of Army and Navy Ministers to officers on the
active list.
Respectfully yours,
Enolosures:
As stated.
Joseph C. Grew.
800.2
CAC:r

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
200
Enolosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1864 of May 28, 1936, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE May 18, 1936.
We, with the approval of the Privy Counoil, hereby
sanction and cause to be promulgated the present ordinance
amending the regulations governing the organization of the
Army Department.
May 16, 1936
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Seal
Countersigned by: Koki Hirota, Prime Minister
Count Juiohi Terauchi,
Minister of War.
Imperial Ordinance No. 63.
The following paragraph is added to the table annexed to
the regulations governing the organization of the Army
Department:
(1) Only generals on the active list shall be appointed
Minister and Vice Minister of the Department of War.
Paragraph (1) in the original table shall be changed to
(2); paragraph (2) to (3), etc.
Supplementary Rule
This ordinance shall take effect on the date of promulgation.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE,May 19, 1936.
We, with the approval of the rrivy council, hereby sanction
and cause to be promulgated the present ordinance amending the
regulations governing the organization of the Navy Department.
May 16, 1936.
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Seal.
Countersigned by: Koki Hirota, Prime Minister.
Osami Nagano, Navy Minister.
Imperial vrdinance No. 64.
The following paragraph is added to the table annered to the
regulations governing the organization of the Navy Department
(1) Only admirals on the active list shall be appointed
Minister and vice Minister of the Navy Department.
Paragraph (1) in the original table shall be changed
to (2); paragraph (2) to (3), eto.
Supplementary Rule
This ordinance shall take effect on the date of promulgation.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
SEE....701.9455/R0
FOR 1828
May12,1936
FROM ....JapAn
() DATED 
293
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Saburo Kurusu, Japanese Ambassador to Belgium: an official
of the Foreign Office advises that after having a rest at
Brussels and acquiring up-to-date information in regard to
Buropean affairs, - would return to Japan to become Minister,
either for Foreign Affairs or for Commerce and Industry.
2
b

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo, kay ls, la2e.
0. 1822.
CT
J1T.P
The Honorable
The eoretary of tate,
"ashinston.
ir
"it, refer-nee to the imbasey's dospaten No. 1783,
dated r1l 17, l0ss, soneerning she fortheouing visit
to the United staten of r. aturo urunu, until re-
contly Chief of the ureau cf comwerolel frairs of
the Japanese Foreisn (friee end now Japanese tassedor
1/ to Lelgiwm, there (a enclosed e eopy of a translation,
publlsbed in tne ckuyame werviee of hay 9, l9se, of un
artiele in the nSaht of the seme date, purportine to
deseribe the objeets whien she tovernment nopes shat
t. Kurueu will te able to mecemplish in the couree of
mis stay in the Umised atates.
In e eonversatiem with the Counseler or the Mabesey.

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
Mr. Kurusn stated that me could not, of sourse, sall
direstly on offieere of the Department but Shat no
would be introdused by the Japanese Ambaseedor, Mr.
Salto. Er. Anrusu expeets to be in washington on or
ebout June 7.
a rumor Is current in Tokyo to the effeet thet r.
Kurumu was appointed t russels primarily to efford
nim en opportunity for & rost, that he will not romain
there long, end that he will return to Japan to fi:1
Bome his pomition. whon questioned asout tals rumor,
r. meu, the Chief of the ureau or lpformation and
Intellignnos of the Forein tf iee, atsted to the Firet
Secretary of the Smbezsy that it was quite tree, and
thet sfter hsvine a rest at ruesels and eoquiring up-
to-date informetion in regard to suropear affairs, r.
Kurueu woulo return to Jo a Lo ecomo slniater, either
for Forelen ffaire or for Comseree und -ndustry.
osjeotfully yours,
Josop.row
anelosure:
Copy of e translation fros tme ckuymma
service.
030.
SRDIE
the sente
nal,

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.89)
Zaclesure de. 1 to Gespatch
Ne. lane ef May 8, 10be, frem the
Rmbassy es Tokye.
Trensletien by Okuyame Serviee.
Ambesseder Kuruse en Hie say to Belgium
Will Gall to Amerieane en Treée keedjustmeat.
.
Hr. ireshi Saite, Japanese mbessedor to Hashington,
und seeretary of Stete Jordell ull have arrived et an
agreoment to settle the guestion of regulating Amerieam-
Japanese trada rolatlons by orferins conerete plans on
bot sides, and ascordinkly, tue two vovernments are
now stuaying sueh eonerete plans.
Thus the spirit of cooper tlon between the twe
countries as eeome markedly promising but as a matter
of feot there is still a to deney in tne United utates to
agisate against tüe importation of Japanese eoston textiles,
weelen loves, ceremie weres, ete. The merieen Gevern-
ment, meved by the appeal of the indwatrialists, is de-
manding limitatien of costen textile exports, or hes
raised the import duty on weelen gleves, and the srade
relations between the two sountries ere far from runnins
moothly.
Apropes of t is attitude en the part or the United
states, a strens view is gaimins greumd in some qearters
thas is view of the faet that the tmited states is making
Japen en importent market for its eetton, petroloum, lum-
ber emd whest, it sheuld make eoneessions as regards
Japemese emperte to the Uaited states whiel are after ell
Lasigmirtesst eempared with Amerleem imports te Japan. The

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.90)
● 8 ●
U. 8. Cevermmest, hewever, is plesed in & pesisiem
where it mmst aet in ssserdeaee wish the demesd ef
Industriallsts at beme, even saough she demand may net
b general. That is to say, Japan mmst exereise son-
sideration ror the com itments whien the. . overnment
has uade in itr statements and therefore in order to
ras ove all souroes or dispute bet veen the two sountrles
it is thought neeessary to have vmerioan industrislists
sn a thole understand the interdepenéont nature of
Amerionn commodities on Japan und the importanee of
smiceble trade relations between the two eountries.
The Japrnese Foreign Cfriee has on frequent oeemsioms
undertakon to urge eriuan induetrielists to take oogni-
zanee or these points through te erioan Covernment
or the mmeriean-Japnnese Trede -oucoil. artieularly
availims iteelr of the fect that r. Ssburo urusu, whe
had been in eharge or the matter sn director of the som
mereial Buresu, is leaving Yekehave for urussels as now
Ambasseder to Belgium and will pass through the United
States, the foreign Cfriee will hove him make statements
er take other a propriate steps on publie and private
eeaslons in various parts of the United  tates in oréer
te brine beme to the publio ine there the interdependenee
of srede betweem the swe sountriee and the prineiple of
11v lot 11ve.

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/649
#1816
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
May 11, 19s6
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1137
Abolition of the Maikaku Shingi Kai (Cabinet Inquiry Council):
REGARDING:
Imperial Ordimance No. 61 of May 5, published in the OFfIcIAl
894.002/
GAZITTE, May 6, providing for the-, mbassy's translation of-,
onelosod.
294
FRG.
2
力

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./101
FOR.Dl
894.002/ 295
FROM
Japan
(G) DATED May13.1936.
19911
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Developments during t he month of april,1936,which
affected the Cabinet:Reports -.
rpg
2
6

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
In the wake of the February 26 incident, a number
of developments took place during the month of April
which affected the Cabinet. On April 10 the Cabinet
decided to abolish the Cabinet Deliberative Body, which
was organized under the Okada Government and had been
closely associated with the senior statesmen and was
therefore deemed objectionable, in the new order of
things.* It was reported that a plan had been proposed
to reduce the number of Ministers of the various Depart-
ments from the present thirteen to seven and to make them
all Ministers without Portfolio, directly responsible to
the Emperor and entrusted with the formulation of policies
which would be executed by the Ministers with Portfolio.
This proposal met with opposition in the Cabinet, probably
on account of its similarity to the defunct Cabinet
Deliberative Body.**
Mr. Hachiro Arita, Ambassador to China, was formally
installed on April 2 as Minister for Foreign Affairs in
place of Premier Hirota, who had held this post since the
formation of the new Cabinet on March 10. On April 10
Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu resigned from his post of Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs and was placed on the waiting
list. Although Mr. Shigemitsu had previously been known
as a friend of the military, the press reported that one
of the reasons for his resignation was the Army's opposition
to him. He was succeeded as Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs by Mr. Kensuke Horinouchi, formerly Chief of the
American
Embassy's despatch No. 1735 of March 19, 1936.
Embassy's despatoh No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
American Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office.
At its meeting on April 10, the Cabinet decided
to reprimand the following officials for their con-
nection with the February 26 incident: Kazuo Oguri,
former Chief of the Metropolitan Police Board; Toshiki
Karasawa, former Director of the Folice Bureau of the
Home Office; Sei Homma, Chief of the Folice Affairs
Department of the Metropolitan Police Board; and Katsu-
roku Aikawa, Chief of the Peace Maintenance Section of
the Home Office. In keeping with the announced policy
of the new Government to clarify the national polity,
the new Minister of Education set forth his views as
follows to a representative of the JAPAN ADVERTISER on
April 29: Japan has for a number of years been adapting
to its needs the modern arts and sciences of the Occident;
in this process greater emphasis has been placed on the
materialistic phase of culture to the detriment of the
spiritual side; Japan is therefore suffering at present
from "unbalance", a situation which must be corrected
through the "humanization of education".
On April 24, the Cabinet decided that meetings
would be held by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, War,
and Navy every Friday; that discussion would not be
limited at these meetings to specific topics but would
embrace everything relating to diplomacy and national
defense; and that the ultimate purpose of the meetings
would be to attain understanding among the three ministers
concerned for the formulation of national policies. The
Minister for Foreign Affairs explained in this connection
that the purpose of such meetings was the unification of
Japan's foreign policy through complete coordination
between the Foreign Office and the defense services.
(b).

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./105
FOR
#1942
FROM . Japan
Grew
July 13, 1936
...) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.002/
Internal Political Affairs: Procrastination of the new Govern-
REGARDING:
ment continued might well result in losing the confidonce
of the Army and hence of a large part of the people. Comments
on addresses of Cabinet Ministers, as serving to illustrate
2
the apprehensiveness prevailing after the insurrection of
6
Fobruary 26 and the uncertainty of the Government's ability
9
to cope with the situation in the long run.
FRG.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
Very little of a definite nature was decided upon by
the Government on the question of social, administrative,
and financial reform, to Which program the Hirote Cabinet
had pledged itself shortly after its formation. On the
other hand, there was no indication that the Government
had in the sligitest degree shaken itself free from the
influence of the Army, which has consistently clemored for
reform ever since the February 26 Incident in return for
the castigation of past offenders and the eradication of
potentially subversive elements in the Army. Political
observers opine that the so-called defense accounts, in
which considerable increases have been announced by the War
and Navy Ministers, will have to be examined and approved
in some form by the Governnent before consideration can be
Civen to increased expenditures for social aid, the proposed
increase in taxes, and the plan for the expansion of state
monopolies.
Considerable

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
Considerable attention wes given by the press to
what would come of the resolutions passed at the special
session of the Diet for the setting up of three committees:
one for the reforn of the House of Peers, another for the
reform of the Lower fouse, end the third for the revision
of the Electoral Law. At first the House of Teers as a
whole and its President, Irince Konoye, in particular were
reported to be oposed to the Government's plan for appoint-
ing a committee for the investigation of the reform of this
body. However, it was stated by the JAPAN ADVERTISER of
June 23 that on June 21 Prince Konoye had agreed with
Cabinet officials upon the establishment of such a com-
mittee. On June 12 the Cabinet had already approved the
appointment of aommissions to investigate the reform of the
House of Representatives and of the Electoral Law.
Premier Hirota and his Cabinet were said to have
agreed in principle on the establishment of a system of
Minister without portfolio, which had been advocated by
the Army for the purpose of entrusting such Linisters with
important decisions on national policy and leaving the
regular Cabinet Ministers free to attend to purely ad-
ministrative duties. At the end of the month, however,
it was reported by the newspapers that the Cabinet had
decided against the appointment at present of Ministers
without portfolio.
Addresses were made by various Cabinet members at the
six-day conference of prefectural governors which lasted
from June 15 to June 20. The Premier's principal speech
was vague and met with criticism from the press on account
of its failure to nention any of the details of the
Government's

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.98)
-15 -
Governnent's promised reforn progrem. Both the Home and
Justice inisters issued wernirs e cinst possible sub-
versive activities, the forner statin that "dark under-
currents" were at work des ite the ood order that had
been meintained since the February 20 Incident and the
latter asserting that cany persons dissatisfied with the
present national situation vere plotting renedies by direct
action. Vithout undertaking an explanation of the measures
contemplated by the Governnent, the Finance Minister spoke
of the need for extending relief to farming end fishing
communities and stressed his Departnent's intention of
bringing about a "drastic renovation" in the taxation
systeni.
In short, the addresses of these Cabinet Ministers
serve as an illustration of the apprehensiveness prevailing
after the insurrection of Februery 2s and the uncertainty
of the Covernment's ability to cope with the situation in
the long run. There renains the possibility that while
the Army may prove capable of establishin discipline
within its nidst for the present, of which ample manifesta-
tions have been given*, the Government may by procrastina-
tion lose the confidence of the Army and hence of a large
part of the people.

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.94)
297
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.894.00 P.R./104
FOR
1991
FROM . Japan
(..Gre
-....) DATED
.ug.20..1.936.
TO
NAME
1-1137
894.002/ 297
The Hirota Cabinet: Developments of July, l936.
REGARDING:
FRG.

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.98)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
Very little was done by the Government toward
out the policies announced shortly after the Incide
002
February 26 and consequently the Cabinet continued
critlcized by the Army and the newspapers. However
announced by the press that the Cabinet had decided
consider the following "truly important" policies:
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1936 of July 9, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1953 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
1. Increase of defensive equipment, submitted
by the War and Navy Ministries.
2.
Readjustment of taxation, including a tax
increase, submitted by the Finance Ministry.
3.
Nationalization of electric power, submitted
by the Communications Ministry.
4.
Central control of fuel, submitted by the
Commerce and Industry Ministry.
5.
Extension of the tern of compulsory education,
submitted by the Education Ministry.
6.
Revision of the agricultural village and land
system, submitted by the Agriculture and
Forestry Ministry.
It having been decided that the Cabinet as a whole
would consider the administrative and social reforms
proposed by the various ministries, a meeting to this
effect was held on July l0. After this meeting, however,
it was announced that the policy of consideration of the
national policy plans by the Cabinet as a whole had been
abandoned owing to the large number of such plans, friction
among Cabinet members, and dissatisfaction on the part of
the War and Navy Ministries, which wanted priority to be
given to their plans and budgets. Therefore it was decided
that the respective ministries would submit their individual
plans in writing to the Premier and the Finance Minister,
who would later submit to the Cabinet Council those plans
deemed feasible. Apparently Premier Hirota had decided
that it was necessary to allot first the minimum which the
defense services could be induced to accept and later to
consider the plans of the other Ministries in the light
of the money remaining.* It appeared to be fairly obvious
that the defense Ministries, particularly the War Ministry,
were asserting control over the Government. At the same
time the Army continued to express its dissatisfaction
with the Hirota Cabinet.
(b).
* mbassy's despatoh No. 1952 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/673
Desp.#2128
SEE
FOR
894.002/298
Japen
Dickover
Nov.13,1936
FROM
) DATED
1k611
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Arrest and trial of Shinya Uchida,former Minister
of Railways in the Okada Cabinet,on charges of
receiving bribes: Reports -.
fpg
298

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/8427
Tel#255, 9pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Dec 9, 1936.
894.002
TO
NAMC
1--1127
Sentiment favoring the resignation of the Hirota Cabinet
REGARDING:
accumulating; Embassy inclines to opinion that, while the
2
German-Japanese agreement may be used as a means of attack
6
on the cabinet, the actual underlying cause of any such at-
6
tack will be the loss of face involved in the failure of
the Sino-Japanese negotiations.
FRG.

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.94)
子生
x
02
U
This telegram must be
TOKYO
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated December 9, 1936
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 1:15 p.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
76
0
18+10
255, December , p.n.
2
Embassy's 252, December 5, 6 p.m., paragraph two.
One. Sentiment 'favoring the rusignation of the
f
liirota (ubin t is accumulating. Increasingly outspokon
opposition to the international position into which Japan
has been led by the agreement with Germany is being
expressed throughout the country. The general policy
in China do s nct stem to be a dominant factor in the dis-
satisfaction with the Cabinet but the disapproval of the
failure of the Foreign Office to obtain satisfactory
results appears to predispose the military and the leaders
of the political parties toward the overthrow of the Hirota
Cabinet.
Two. This afternoon the Minister for Foreign Affairs
is appearing before the Privy Council to defend the
Cabinet's foreign policies. The press predicts difficul-
ties for the Government.
Three. Apart from political maneuvering in the
Cabinet situation the serious interest ofleaders is partial-
ly concerned with the advisability of the overthrow of the
Cabinet

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.98)
U -2- #255, Dec. 9, 9 p.m. from Tokyo
Cabinet at this juncture for the effect of such a step
on world opinion. In other words the question at issue
is whether the enforced resignation of the Cabinet
woull assist in quieting foreign apprehensions that the
Japanese Gov rnment intends to develop the recently
concluded agreement with Germany in the direction of a
sweeping new orientation of Japanese foreign policy.
Four. The Embussy inelines te the op nien that while
the Jerman-Japanes: agreement may be used as a means of
att :ck on the Cabinet the actual underlying cau se of any
such attuck will te the loss of fice involved in the,
failure of the Japanese negotiations with China.
Repuuted to Peiping.
GREW
KL.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./107
SEE
Desp.#2151
FOR
894.002/
Japan
FROM
Dickovor.....) DATED
Nov.25.1936.
NAME
1127
Japanese Cabinet:Roports a ctivities of -, and the
REGARDING:
300
question of administrative refom.It was reported
that the Army made the suggestion that political
reform should include a restriction of the powers
of the Diet whereby Diet members would not be
permitted to become cabinet members.
fpg
w
0
G

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.99)
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
Although the question of administrative reform con-
tinued to occupy the press, no progress was made in
894.002
clarifying the details of the reform proposal. Premier
Hirota appeared to be giving his personal attention to
the matter in private discussions but avoiding letting the
plan become an open issue.* Toward the end of the month
the newspapers reported that the Army had come forward
with a sugeestion that political reform should include a
restriction of the powers of the Diet whereby Diet members
would not be permitted to become Cabinet ministers and the
political parties would be entirely divorced from the
administration of Government, being allowed only to debate
in the Diet. Opposition to the Army's reported reform
proposal was widespread.**
At a Cabinet meeting held on October 20 a compromise
agreement acceptable to Mr. Tanomogi, Minister for Com-
munications, was approved "in principle" on the much-
discussed
*
Embassy's despatcin No. 2087 of October 16, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2117 of October 31, 1936.

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
discussed plan for siate control of electric power industries.
While certain alterations were made in Mr. Tanomogi's original
plan, his thesis of "private ownership and state operation"
remained the basis of the compromise plan, the essential
points of which are as follows: that the various privately
owned electric power industries shall be required to buy
shares in a state institution called the Electric Power
Facilities Company; and that the Electric Power Facilities
Company shall, within a limited period of years, employ funds
derived from loans or surplus in buying back at par the
shares of those privately owned electric power companies
which are willing to sell their shares. It was understood
that the plan would be submitted to the Diet after the New
Year holidays and, according to press indications, it should
meet with opposition in that body.*

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
Desp.#2173
894.00 P.R./108
FOR
SEE
894.002/
Grew
Dec.4,1936.
Japan
) DATED
FROM
11k
NAME
127
301
REGARDING:
The Cabinet: The Vice Ministers for War and Navy
submitted to a conference of faur Cabinet
Ministers a joint recommendation for adminis-
trative reform. Sets forth chief points of this
recommondation.
rpg
3
0

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.97)
(a). The Cabinet.
On November 9 the Vice Ministers for War and Navy
submitted .to a conference of four Cabinet Ministers a
joint .recommendation for administrative reform, the chief
qt
points of which were the following: there should be a
6
commission of general inquiry, supervision, and coordina-
tion under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister; the
head of this commission, whether or not a Cabinet member,
should be authorized at times to attend Cabinet meetings
in the capacity of a Cabinet Minister (this point represented
a concession to the opposition to the Army's original plan
of having a Cabinet Minister without Portfolio as the head
of this office); the Foreign Office end the Ministry of
Overseas Affairs should be combined in the interest of a
unified external policy; the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry should
be combined; foreign trade, fuel policy, electric power,
and other matters should be controlled by a unified office;
aviation, railways, roads, wharves, and all communications
should be under the control of a single Department with
particular stress upon the promotion of civil aviation;
and the Law of the Houses of the Diet, as well as the
Election Law, should be revised for the purpose of renovating
the Diet.*
There was very little discussion in the press of the
Government's plan for state control of electric power
industries
* Embassy's despatch No. 2l4l of November 14, 1936.

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
industries, the matter apparently being considered closed
until the opening of the next Diet Session.* However, a
joint statement urging the Government to leave the manage-
ment of electric power industries in private hands was
issued by executives of the so-called "Big Five" electric
power companies on November 14.
(b). The Diet.
The proposal put forward by undefined military circles
for restriction of the Powers of the Diet** was received with
widespread and intense opposition. Consequently, the War
Minister on November 6 issued a statement in which he denied
that the Army had any intention of reducing the powers of
the Diet. On the same day General Terauchi told Cabinet
members that the Army's policy of giving expression to
political views only through the War Minister would remein
unchanged and he denied knowledge of the source of the pro-
posal for drastic Diet restriction attributed by the press
to the Army. There were evidences of resentment among some
of the younger and more politically-minded officers of the
Army after the issuance of the War Minister's statement.
As already stated in this report, on November 9 the
Vice Ministers for War and Navy presented a joint statement
for administrative reform to a conference of four Cabinet
Ministers which contained a vague proposal for renovation
of the Diet system. This proposal appeared to be a compro-
mise to appease the younger Army element on one hand, and
to agree with the War Minister's statement of November 6
that the Army did not intend to reduce the powers of the
Diet on the other hand.***
Despite
*
Monthly Report for October, Section III (a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2ll7 of October 31, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatoh No. 2131 of November 14, 1936.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/674
Desp.#264
SEE
FOR
China(Nanking)
Pock
Nov.24,1936.
894.002/
FROM
) DATED
1791
NAME
REGARDING:
Editordal on Japanese Cabinet Cris is:Summary of -,
from the NaNKING HSIN CHING JIH PAO,on October 13,
1936,regarding the serious effects that would
302
result from the fall of the Japanese Cabinet
at this time.
fpg
302

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.94)
874.0o8
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ..793.94/8485
FOR 2187
FROM ....Japan
(.GrR....) DATED.D..16..1R36
894.002/303
TO
NAME
1-1187
Sino-Japanese relations
Present position of the cabinet in Japan: difficulties ex-
REGARDING:
perienoed in connection with its foreign policy.
FRG.
303

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.96)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
#2205
SEE .. 793.94/8500
FOR
894.002/304
Japan
Grew
Deo..30..1956
FROM
-.) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1197
Present position of the Hirota Cabinet: difficulties due to
REGARDING:
failure of its diplomatic policies.
FRG.

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/676
Te1.#13-6pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/305
Japan
Grew
Jan.22,1937
FROM
) DATED
NAME
REGARDING:
Opposition to the Cabinet,displayed in the Diet:
This has caused a situation where the only
courses of action are to resign or to dissolve
the Lower House of the Diet. The Diet wes last
night prorogued for two days,in order to give the
Government an opportunity to deal with the situation.
The ASAHI reports that the Cabinet is await ing
some move by the political perties.
fpg
305

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.97)
0
x
0
U
A portion of this telogram
Tokyo
must be closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 22, 1937
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 9:30 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
13, January 22, 6 p.m.
(GRAY) One. Owing to the strong opposition to the
Cabinet displayed in the Diet and especially to the conflict
betwen the Army and the politicel parties culminating yes-
terday in battle of words between lHamada
of the
Siyukai and Terauchi, Minister for Var, the Diet was
last night prorogued for two days in order to give the
Governnent un opportunity to deal with the situation. It
00
does not appear possible that the political parties will
yield to or cooperate with the Cabinet and consequently the
only courses of action left to the Cabinet are to resign or
to dissolve the lower house of the Diet upon its reconvening
and to call for a general election. The Army is reported
U
to be pressing for di ssolution and the Asahi this afternoon
reported that the Cu' inet this morning decided upon this
course and is now awaiting .'some move by the political parties.
Two. The opnosition of the political parties to the
army and its policies appears to be the principal cause
of the present conflict between the Diet and the Cabinet.
In a release at midnight immodiately following the
proroguing

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.97)
U -2- #13, Jan. 22, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
proroguing of the Diet the war office took up the issue
in a sririted political statement the tunor of which is
that th politicnl partius, lthough crying for reform,
are not aliv. to the r form needs which hoye been  vident
since the ncident of February 26, 1936 and that it is
impurative that the people unite at the pr sunt time in a
positive nationalistic policy of which the political prtics
Te ine p ble. The Army re turatus the necessity of par-
liament ry reform, clarificntion of the national policy,
national Aufuns and stabili ation of the peoplcs'
livelihood and again umphasizes "the presunt international
crisis". (TND GRAY)
Three. It appuars to the Embassy that the ducision of
the irota Cabinet to dissolve the Housc of Reprus ntativ s
is a t roat for use gainst the political pnrtius in
negotintions today nd tomorrow. Hirotn probably hopes that
the partics will prefer his Government to 7 generel olcction.
The army scums confident thet a general olcction would show
that recunt opposition to th. Government umanates from
the political partis nd not from the people. In the
opinion of the Embassy that opposition is widcsprend but on
the other hand the party unity necessary to take advantage
of the opportunity is not yet evident. A newly ele cted
House without absolutemajority in any one party would probab-
ly leave the formation of the Cabinet largely within the con-
trol of the military without much fundamental change from the
present

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.96)
U -3- 13, Jan. 22, 6 p.m6 from Tokyo
present.
Four. Effort at further interpretation would be pre-
mature at the prenent time.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/677
Tel.#16-lam.
SEE
FOR
894.002/306
Jepan
Grow
Jan.23,1937
FROM
) DATED
k111
NAME
REGARDING:
Possible resignat ion of the Cabinet:Dissolution of
the Diet seems inevitable,and this will force
the resignation of the Cabinet.
fpg
20

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.95)
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 23, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 1:45 p.m., 22nd
20
Secretary of State
Vashington
16, January 23, 1 a.m.
Embassy's 13, January 2, 6 p.m.
The freling tonight anong prominent Japanese is
f
that d ssolution of the Diet is inevitable and that the
Cabinet will be forced to r sign. We must, however,
C
remember that major political crises in Japan have
heretofore been ovcrcome. I lhope that the situation will
be clearr tomorrow.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
VTD.CCR

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/678
SEE
FOR
Tel./21-6pm.
894.002/
FROM .....JaDan
(.ra..) DATED
Jan.23.1937
td111
NAME
307
REGARDING:
Resignation of Japanese Cabinet:Collective resignation
was handed by Hirote to the Emperor this efternoon,
but has not yet been eccepted. Successor to Hirota
uncertain,but Ugaki prominently mentioned.
fpg
307

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.90)
U
GRAY
2
Tokyo
0
O
Dated Janunry 23, 1937
98
:09.m.
Secretary of Stute
ohington
RUSU
21, J nuary 3, 6 p..
Erssys 16,January , 1 .m.
ircte present d coll ctive resignution of the cahinet
to the Tmperor this afternoon but not yet accepted. Resig
natior  a due to the Tur livister's refusal to accept any
Q
fom of c oupromise with the  olitic 1 purties. Successor to
C
Hirota uneertain but Ugaki prominently mentioned. Comments
9
lnter.
Rpeoted to Nanking.
8
GRFW

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.96)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/680
FOR ..Tel/25. 4pm
894.002/
FROM ..Japan
Grew
..) DATED ...Jan.25..1937
TO
NAME
1--1127
Political controversy in Japan.
REGARDING:
General Ugaki as Premier: Notwithstanding reported opposition of
army to-, Ambassador expresses opinion there is good chance
308
of Ugaki being able to form cabinet. Discounts press reports
of appoirtment of General Matsui and Shiratori to Minister of
Foreign Affairs and Vice Minister, respectively.
FRG
3
0
8

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 25, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 7:52 a.m.
Secretary of State
lashington
NOTE
25, January 25, 4 p.m.
Emba sy's 22, January 24, 11 p.m.
In  ite of press reports today that the army is
opposed tc ien al Ugaki as Pr ier, I am informed on most
reliable authority that thcre is a very good chance of his
894.
being able to form a Cabinet although several days may
elapse before he is successful.
0
Press reports that General iataui may become Minister
0
for Foreign Affairs and Shiratori Vice Minister are not
6
8
(repeat not) substantial. These appointments are regarded
O
as highly unlikely.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/683
Memo rand um
SEE
FOR
894.002/309
State Department
FROM Far Eastera Division
Dooman
-) DATED
Jan.23,1937
1117A111
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Conflict bet men political parties and the Cabinet:
Resume' of the political crisis,caused by -.
fps

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.95)
1
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/681
Tel.#29-11pm.
894.002/
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Jan.26,1937
FROM
) DATED
1πA11
NAME
1-1127
3
10
REGARDING:
Ifforts of Ugaki to form a Cabinet:Army opposition
to Ugaki cont inuea;press reports that Army will
not nominate a Minister of War to serve in an
Ugaki Cabinet. Sets forth three alternatives,if
and when Ugaki announces his inability to form
a Cabinet.
fpg
3
1

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.95)
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
0
Dated January 26,1937
Ruc'd 1:05 p. m.
Secrr f Stat,
yu in ton.
20, January 26, 11 p. m.
Embuss 's 2h, January 5, 4 p. m.
f
army opposition to Ugaki continues and the press
re orts that the army will not (repeat not) nominate
00
a Mini-tor of Var to serve in an Ugaki cabinet. Ugaki,
however, has not yet reperted to the Throne his inability
to form : cabinet und it is not believod that he will do
so before noon tomorrow. Th general feeling among
politic 1 observers late tonight is that if Ugaki tomorrow
4
announc,s his inability to form a cabinet there remain three
altern tives: (1) The Tmperor may refuse to accept
Ugaki's rnouncement of failur: in which case the army
will be unuble without disloyalty to refuse to nominate
a Ministcr of Nar, (2) Prince Konoye or (3) General Minami
will be comnanded to form a abinet.
Repeated to Nanking.
KLP
GREW

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/682
Tel.#30-6pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/
Japan
Grew
Jan.2 7,1937
FROM
) DATED
179111
NAME
1-1127
3
REGARDING:
Efforts of Ugaki to fom a Cabimet: Ugaki conferred
with Yuasa,at the Palace,then announced that he would
continue his efforts to form a Cabinet. The Court
appears to be displeased with the Army's efforts
to block Ugaki.
rpe

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before be in communicated
Dated January 27, 1937
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 7:45 a.m.
Secretary of State
tv
Washington
00
30, January 27, 6 p.m.
894.
f
Embassy's 29, January 26, 11 p.m., first alternative.
one. Ugaki this morning conferred at the Palace with
Yuasa, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, for over an hour and
f
on his return announced that he would continue his endeavor
to form a cnbinet. It appears that the Court is displeased
00
with the army's effort to blcck Ugaki and desires reconsider?
tion.
Two. In the present cabinet crisis an air of tension
among high Japanese convinces the Embassy that there is in
process a more determined effort to resist political dicta-
tion by the army than has been attempted in the last fifteen
years.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
8
KLP
2

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/684
Tel.#33-5pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/
FROM
Japen
Grew
) DATED
Jan.29,1937
146/111
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
312
Failure of Ugaki to form a new Cabinet: Ugaki reported
to the Throne,today,his inability to form a Cabinet.
It is believed that either Baron Hiranuma or Admiral
Osumi will next be commanded to form a Cabinet.
fpg
32

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.95)
子
Tokyo
must be closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 29, 1937
to anyone.
(A)
Rec'd 9:15 a.m.
Secretary of State
00
94.
Wachington
682
37, January 29, 5 p.m.
Embassy's 30, January 27, 6 p.m.
On. gaki this noon report d to the Throne his
3
inability to form a Cabinet. Speculation in regard to
the next person
commanded to f rn a Jabinet now
places Baren   numa (who is believe. to ave Fascist
leari s) n the lead and Admi ad (suni next.
g
Twe. refore procueding t he Palace this noon
684
ai  l used t the press bis note of resignation from
the po:   teneral on the retired list. This was
suppl i :y note from his principal lieutenant,
General
shi, retired. Both notes severely criticised
army int rfurence in politics. (End Gray) A press ban was
placcd on the notes before thoy were published in Japan
but the Enbassy is informed tlat Fleisher succeeded in
telenhonin the complete texts to the HERALD TRIBUNE.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00/687
FOR .......Momorandum
State Department
894.002613
Far Eastern Division
FROM
(Dooman.) DATED Jan 25.1937
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING:
Parliamentary crisis in Japan: latest estimate and comments.
ω
3
Designation of General Ugaki to form a cabinet; situation
existing immediately before.
FRG.
313

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/686
Tel#34, 5pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Jan 30, 1957
TO
NAME
1-1127
314
Proposed formation of Cabinet by General Senjuro Hayashi.
REGARDING:
Reporting on-, advises that Baron Hiranuma declined invi-
tation to form cabinet. Commenting on characteristics
of Hayashi and probable alignments, gives views of in-
dustrialists and financiers; attitude of Diet unknown.
FRG.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.96)
F
U
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated January 30, 1937
Rec'd 11:20 a.m.
Seertary f Stat
002
Tas: r ton
894.0
34, Jannary 30, 5 r.m.
En assy's 33, January 29, 5 p.m.
684
Gre. Last ni t tranuunm wa invited to form a
cabir t but declined.
enepl unjuro Hayashi, rtired
forner : inister of Ver, w's then selected. As it is
894.10
generall conceded that he has the support of a large part o
the army it is b lieved that he will expevienee little
difficulty in ferming a cabinut.
Two. General Hayashi is a soldier and not a politiciar
but is not asscciated with the more radical element in the
686
army. e is cautious and noderate, believes in discipline
in the ary and is opposed to the participation of the
army n politics (see Fnbassy:s despatch No. 1414, July 26,
1935). it is believed that h was selected to form a
cab inet because he will be a le to control the army and
through noderation to minimine iriction between the army
and the government.
Three. It is the general consensus of opinion
here romin:tion of Hayashi means a victory for the militaiv.
The

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.91)
u -2- #34, Jan. 30, 5 p.m. from Tokyo
The Hayashi cabinet, if formed, will be more military and
more progressive in character than was the Hirota cabinet.
Some observers say that it will have an entirely military
complexion. It will have no strong connection with the .
peiitic l parti s und will be  evetud to administrative
referm r ther than to the maintenanee ef the status auo in
sovernm nt. rrceuse of its litury cemplexion it is
exp ete i th t it w ill nccept th entir. urmy pronrom
neitlans ct nutionai n, strn thening f the
Jur an s anehuke cefons r conomi. bloe and levelop-
ment ef n's continentalicy.
Four. The nowspapors e crt that industrialists and
finenci. rs dc not view the p cspret with enthusiasm. They
ex et t t in msi miitry rne in ti e inet
wt in tadctinrtre on
cone ey w th further control if industry in the attumrt
to   solf support nd  rther centrol ef monetory
oro ns I an ttempt to finurre the inerunsed budeets.
Sc e  lut lon is expectud vma the share market rose this
mornins in ntieipation.
Fiv. There is no indte tion as yet of the attitude
of the iet tc ward the propos, d Hayashi cabinet.
hep ated tc Nanking.
GREW
KLP:WWC

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/688
SEE
Tel.#36-7pm.
FOR
894.002/
FROM
Japen
Gro) DATED
Fob.2.1937
Hdll
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Hayashi Cabinet:Advisos that -,was installed today.
Members are as follows: Premier,General Senjuro
3
Hayashi;War,General Kotaro Nakamura; Navy,Admiral
Mitsa Yonai;Home Affaira,Kakichi Kawarada;Finance,
5
Toyotaro Yuki; Justi∞,Suyehiko Shiono;Agriculture
and Forestry,Tatsunosuke Yamasaki;Commerce and Industry,
Admiral Takuo Godo. Hayashi has not approached anyone
to become Minister for Foreign Affairs. Sato,at Paris,
and Seito,at Washington,both ment ioned.
fpg
315

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
00
U
GRAY
Tokyo
x
C
Dated February 2, 1937
Rec'd 10:55 a.m.
Secrr f State
las'in ton
3, ebruary 2, 7 p.m.
miausy's 34, January 30, 5 p.m.
F
One. Hayashi Cabinet installed this morning. Members
are as "cllows: Premier (concurrently Foreign Minister
C
and Education Hinister) General Senjuro Hayashi; Var,
C
eneral . oraro Nakamura; Navy, Admiral Mitsa Yonai;
Fome'Iirs, Kakichi Kawarad: Finance and concurrently
Overseas Affairs, Toyotaro Yuki; Justice, Suyehiko Shiono;
4
Agricult ure and Forestry and concurrently Communications,
Tatsunosuke Yamasaki; Commerce and Industry and concur-
rently Railways, Admiral Takuo Godo.
Two. According to the late t information
ava: lable to the Tmbassy, Haya.i has not yet approached
any one to become linistur fo oreign Affa irs. Ambassador
Sato at Paris and Ambassador  to at Washington have
both beer prominently ment: md but Foreign Office
officials have informed the Embassy that no telegram to
Saito has passed through the oreign Office. It is
generally assumed that some of the other portfolios being
held

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.96)
U -2- 36, Feb. 2, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
held concurrently will be abolished or amalgamated with
others in the process of admiristrative reform.
Thr. Inform Treasury. he reuet on to the now
annut r Japan is generally favorable. It was exp cted
That the ayashi Cabinet woul show decided Fascist trends
out the aopointment of minis sery of known moderate tenden-
i " has r utly relieved public appr henston. In
partic ia: the appcintment of Yuki as Finance Minister
has served to quiet the fears of economic circles. He is
a pract cal banker of many vears experience and the general
opinion is that he will not follow the "irresponsible"
finance c' aba. It is bel iey d that he will not pernit
governme tal expenditures to outrun economic advance and
cause dargerous inflation but it is thought that it will
be neceas ry for him to uxercise some measure of control
over indus ry and finance in order to accomplish this end.
Four. Analysis will follow later.
Repeated to l'anking.
GREW
RR:"/C

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/690
To1.43-1lam.
SEE
FOR
894.002/
Japen
Grew
Feb.2,1937
FROM
-) DATED
461
NAME
1-1127
C1
The Hayashi Cabinet: Comments on the Cabinet as a
REGARDING:
16
whole and on individual members.
rpe
~
6

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.94)
278
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
50~
before bcing communicated
Dated February 6, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 7:10 a.m.
X
Secreta y of Stat
iishington
43, February 6, 11 a....
Embassy's 36, February , 7 p.m.
One. lolitical observ rs aseribe formation of oderate
Cabinet to army realization that it had gone tec far in
opposn., will of rest of nation. The army's wrecking of
the i irota Cabinet resultin: from the former's quarrel
with the pclitical partius nd its successful obstruction
of o eti whe was the almeat unanimeus chcice of the ration
exclus ve of the army for Ppemier brought about a sugges-
tive unlercurrent of criticism of the Japaneso Sov
interf rence in politics which led army leaders to encourage
the fornaticn of a Cubinet with less military and Fascist
leanings than was expected. Hence the choice of Nakamura
.1.1
instead of the strong Itagai! as Tar Hinister.
S
Iwo. Statesmen close to the Throne desired a Cabinet
with not too strong leanin  cither toward Fascism or
Liberalism in order to avoid a frontal clash between the
usually
two ideologies. Japanese politics are ydegry oppor-
tunistic and this seemed the moment for a comparatively
innocuous Cabinet which would avoid radical change but
would

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.94)
U -2- 43, Feb. 6, 11 a.m. from Tokyo
would gradually enforce nec amy reforms.
Three. Such is the shi Cabinet, without decided
al xion, without th s.pport of the political parties,
mi w heut maried  nyiet: ns cr theorius although more
atur l lic u praisal is rclined to regard it as less
elorl  than ut tirst be i vod. Thile somowhat mor
2
nder  itary infiuence ti n the preceding Cubinet it is
rcbail that ti is influene will be exerted with restraint
win i the attitude o' tn r ilitary leaders described in
para raph cne. There are iniications that before further
asserting their power the army leaders will await the
tevelopment of the new reactionary peliticul party which
will su, port and be suppert ! by the army. The facts
cencernira this new party
Lel: had its origin in a gre, ne
of military and other pa:  otic societies under th incentive
of the retired General:ekawa will be reperted by despatch.
"our. The Premirr is exclusively a soldier, honest,
rational, straight-forward, not a forceful character, in-
fluential in army circles t:cugh with little experience in
politics and government.
Yakamura and'Yonai are cod service men but almost
unknown outside the army and navy.
Yuki is generally beli ved to be the strong figure in
the Cabinet. A protege and follower of former Finance
inister Takahashi, he can be expected to follow tenaciously
the cautlous financial policies of his renowned predecessor.
Tt

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.95)
U -3- 43, Feb. 6, 11 a.m. from Tokyo
It is the general opinion that he will endeavor to reduce
the fin ciel burden on the people as far as the military
will perrit and will avoid sudden or drastic moves which
ight undan. ur the financial struetur.
c other members of th (abinet are cutstandine in
ran and few u w 1i newn tr the publie.
iv. The indetermin. charieter of the cabinet is
illustreted by the vagueness ef its suppcsed policies as
ablid :n the press:
(a) Thoru clarification of the national pclity.
(b) Fsi ablishment cf a finite diplomatic policy.
(c) hepletion of ratierl defense and de velopment of
natio:al industry.
) i hteous adminis ration un er the Tmp rial
onstition.
Six. The Hayashi Ca in:t is ene ally re ard d as
: transi tional and tomporary government meant to tide ever
a political crisis and perhap: constituting a short step
n the road to some sort of Japanese ascism. The absence
 support from the political parties (no members of the
binet are members of the varties) and its general weak.
iss weuld appear to presage a short life but such Cabinets
ofter survive for an unexpectedly long time in Japan. Some
cbservers are of the opinion that it will live for about a
year unless it is overthrown earlier by some
unforeseen cause. It will undoubtedly meet with opposition
in

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.97)
U -4- ¥43, Feb. 6, 11 a.m. from Tokyo
in the Diet but as too strong opposition would result
in dissoluticn and it is not believed that the
liticians will carry their criticism to extremes.
topeated to Nanking by mail.
GRV
CSP

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/691
To1. A49 - 7pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/317
Ja pen
Grew
Feb.8,1937
FROM
) DATED
1t6
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Policies of the Hayashi Cabinet:Advises that -,were
announced today.Gives informat ion in regard to -,
which are stated in general and nebulous terms.
fpg
3
1

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.95)
2
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated February 8, 193
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 9:10 a.m.
Secretary of tate
Yashington
4., bebruary 8, 7 p.n.
7 bassy's 43, February 6, 11 a.m.
Thy polieies uf the Hayashi cabinet were announeed
this ait rneon. Four of the five consist of elaborations
f
of the policies listed in paragraph five of the Embassy's
43 and the fifth has to do with enhancement of the welfare
9
of the hation thrc uah eneouragement of industry. The
statem nt of poliey is wcrded in general and nebulous terms
and is ot sufficiently specific to justify cabling.
0
Dospatch follows.
Ropeated to Nanking by mail.
GREW
KLP

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/692
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
FROM Rar astern Division
(Don) DATEDb.2.1937.
111
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Cabinet Crisis in Japan: Discusses the new Hayashi
Cabinet,installed today. Comments on new members
amd thoir political leanings.
fpg
w
8

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/693
To1.#58-7pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002
Japan
Grew
Feb.10,1937
FROM
) DATED
*b11
NAME
1—1127
3
REGARDING: Appointment of General Hajime Sugiyame,as War Minister
in the Hayashi Cabinet to succeed General Nakamura,
6
who resigned.
rpg
3
b

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.95)
—ia
U
0
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
0
before being communicated
Dated February 10, 1937
X
to ary ne. (B)
Rec'd 9:30 a.m.
Secretary of State
0
Washington
0
52, February 10, 7 p.m.
Embassy's 43, February 6, 11 a.m.
Two appointments of a: nificance were made yesterday:
One. General Nakamura has re signed as Var Minis ter
because of illness (apparently real) and last night
Genc ral Hajime Sugiyama, Inspector-General of Mi itary
Trairing, was appointed as his successor. Sugiyama has
a stronger charucter is better known, and enjoys the
confidence a the army to a greater extent that Nakamura.
f
He ha: had wide experience both at home and abroad and
has successfully held important posts in the army organi-
zation. He is an advocatc of an augmented military machine. C
His appointment will undoubtedly strengthen the militery
influence in the Cabinet and on the other hand will en-
hance liscipline within the army. The Cabinet will be
6
strengthened by the acquisition of Sugiyama but as he will
probacly insist upon the approval of the proposed military
 bud et the Cabinet's financial difficulties will not be
lessened. Sugiyama was succeeded as Inspector-General of
CR
Juchi
Military Trai ing by Terauchi, former War Minister.
Two.

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.91)
U -2- 52, eb. 10, 7 p.. from Tokyo
Two. Fukai resigned on the 8th as Governor of the
Bank ? Japan and yesterday Seihiu Ikeda, formerly mana ing
ir e r of the  iusui o urizatin, was appointed as
is siceessor und ichi sushima, formerly Vice inistr
of inur ce and finuncit ce miasiener at New Yorl and
Lon lon, was appointed Vice tovernor. Both are well
known t Av rican financial cIrelus. t is reported that
Iked: w:ll follow a mor. ouitive pelicy or coooeration
with 'inencial und in dustr al cireles than did  ukai who
was resarded by financiurs here us more of a scholar and
theorist thur a pruetieal  anker. The appointments of
:ke  ni u shima ure w leemed by financial circles in
Japn wLel: I li v thae witn uki a strene triuavirite
011F
has  un formed which whil giving all possible ass stance
to  mntry will be ublo to stendy the disturbed
rinancial situation in Janan.
hepeated to Nanking by mail.
GREW
RR:CSB

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/320
894.00/695
Te1.#57-6pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Feb.15,1937.
FROM
) DATED
t611
NAME
1-1127
Feb.15,1937:Summary of -, which was placatory
in tone,and in which he reiterated his policies.
fpg
320

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.93)
E
U
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated February 15, 1937
ree'd 8:65 a.m
Secretary of state
mten
5,  bruary 15, 6 p.n.
y 49,February,7 p.
U.
re. General Hayauht'a speech before the House
of reers thin morning was placatory in tone indicating
194.00
the Cehinet's wish to coop ra with and not to dissolve
the Diet. Hc reiterated is p licies without further
elucidation and very briefly dincussed the revised and re-
duced hndeet and the necessity for the propo sed iner ase
of taxes.
1
Two. In the part of his speech devoted to fore ign
policies he stressed the necessity for China's understanding
of Japan's attitude toward that country and urged the
development of "mutual appreciation" and "closer contacts"
betweer thn two overnments ani peoples as well as "con-
crete cooperation" and "mutual assistance" indicating a
trend toward a more friendly and less aggressive attitude
toward Ch ra. The tone of the reference to the Soviet Union
was firm, urging the Soviets to "take a broad view and
cooperate with us" in the settlements of pending questions.
Following

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.94)
U -2- #57, Feb. 15, 6 p.m. fram Tokyo
Following the reference to Soviet-Ja anese relations
moreover he strongly affirmed the timelinessand necessity
of ti terman-Japan use anti-Comintern agreement. In regard
to rolut ors with the nited States, he said 'Japan's
peliey o pro eting friundshi with Great Britain and the
United States is immutable. Between the former countries
and curs there exint quest ons of various orts
requirn uljustmint". He sad rot hing of questions pending
betvcer the nited States and Japan. Amau intima ted to me
on the ilth that this oniesion would be made intentionally
as hayu w shed to convey th. impression that relations
with th nite States are sasisfactory.
 at d to (*), by mail to Nanking.
GRT:W
R!
yC
() appa. ent omission.
m

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
SEE
701.9451/13
FOR
Tel.1024pm
FROM ...Great. .Britain.
(Athorton.....) DATED
..Fab.26.1937
TO
NAME
1—1187
0!
2
REGARDING:
Ambassador Sato, Paris: Yoshida has informed Foreign Office
he understands that Sato has been asked to consider the
post of Foreign Secretary.
emc
x)
2
2
C
2
0

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./109
#2221
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Jan 21, 1937
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING:
The Hirota Cabinet: Criticiam of-, developments during the
month of Dec., 1936.
FRG.
322

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.99)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
The Hirota Cabinet met with severe criticism at the
hands of the political parties and the newspapers, part-
ly on damestic issues but principally on the grounds that
the Sino-Japanese negotiations had failed; that the nego-
tiations for the anti-Comintern pact with Germany had been
conducted with too much secrecy; that the pact itself had
been received with disfavor abroad, probably because the
Government had failed to explain its "true nature" proper-
ly; that Mr. Arita's disclosure of the conclusion of the
anti-

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
anti-Comintern agreement to the Soviet Ambassador had
been premature and had ceused the USSR to delay the sign-
ing of the revised Fisheries Treaty; and that the Govern-
ment had made no progress in its negotiations with the
Soviet Union over the pro osed sorder commissions.*
How-
ever, there was little or no criticism of the nature of
the agreement with Germany end none whatsoever of the
Japanese militery for havin, forced the Cabinet to at-
tempt to le lize the Aray's actions in North China through
the issuance of demands for an agreement which the Nanking
Governnent could not be oxpectod to sanction.
A temporary respite fron criticism wcs afforded the
Cabinet by Chang Hsueh-liang's attempted coup at Sian.
The Government could argue thnet the Sien rebellion had
been due to communist instigation and hencc justificd
Japan's agreement with Gernany and the t negotiations with
China could .ot be continu d so long as the disturbed
politiccl conditions preveiled in that country. However,
criticism of tho Hirote Government was resumed with force
in the latter half of Deceiber and it appcared at the
close of the month that the Cabinot might have to face
organized opposition from the political partios, the
Houso of Peers, tho pross, and other quarters, espocially
during tho forthcoming session of the Dict. Not only
the Shakai Taishuto, tho minority party which has criti-
cizcd the Government consistontly, but also tho two prin-
cipal political parties (thc Minsoito and the Sciyukai)
werc reportedly dotcrmined to criticizo thc Govornmont
on both forcign and domostic issucs.
(b)
* Embassy's despatch No. 2187 of Docembor 16, 1936.

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
1937
March 4, 1937
till
1937 MAR
AM
A FATERN AFFAINS
VISION OF
MMiN. NoNtaké Sato, recently appointed
894.
Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs
0B
Mr. Sato, who is fifty-seven years old, is the
894.002/323
adopted son of Mr. Aimaro Sato, Japanese Ambassador to
the United States some twenty-five years ago.
He joined the Foreign Service of Japan in 1906, and
has subsequently served almost entirely in Europe, his
successive posts having been Secretary of the Japanese
Embassy at St. Petersburg, Counselor of the Embassy at
Paris, Minister to Poland, Director of the Japanese
League of Nations office at Geneva, Ambassador to
Belgium, and finally Ambassador to France. After the
War, Mr. Sato was closely associated with the League of
2
PTLHID
Nations in various capacities, the last being as Japanes
member of the Council of the League during the Sino-Japa
nese conflict.
Mr. Sato speaks English well and French almost
perfectly. He has a pleasant and agreeable disposition,
and he is -- for a Japanese -- cosmopolitan in his point
of viow. His association over a long period of time with
F/FG
Europeans, especially his extended service at Geneva, has
naturally tended to produce in him a relatively liberal
attitude toward international affairs. He is not a strong
14
personality,

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
personality, and being of a cautious temperament,it is
unlikely that Mr. Sato will initiate any radical changes
in Japanese foreign policy.
Early this year, before there occurred the recent
change of government in Japan, it was stated in the press
that Mr. Sato had informed his Government of his intention
to retire from the Foreign Service and that his resignation
had been accepted. The announcement yesterday that Mr. Sato
had been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs, therefore,
occasioned some surprise. It is known that the Prime
Minister, General Hayashi, was unable to induce Ambassador
Saito, at Washington, and one or two of the other younger
ambassadors to consider favorably the post of Minister
for Foreign Affairs, for the reason that there is general
expectation that the Hayashi Cabinet will not be able to
maintain itself for very long. Mr. Sato, however, was in
a different position: he had apparently resolved to
retire from the Foreign Service, and no risk was involved
of sacrificing a career in his acceptance of the post of
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
AD
FEIMID/DLY

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/701
esp.#2256
SEE
FOR
894.002/324
Japan
Grew
Feb.15,1937
FROM
.) DATED
1d111
NAME
1-1187
Policies of the Hayash1 Cabinet: Statement issued
REGARDING:
by Gemral Hayashi,setting forth -.
fpg
F

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
894.00/700
Tel.#69-2pm.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Mar.4,1937
FROM
) DATED
4611
NAME
1--1187
325
REGARDING:
Naotake Sato:Appointed Japanese Minister for
Foreign Affairs. Brief record of his public
career,and summary of press comment on his
appointment are set forth.
fpg
325

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.96)
2FE
U
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated March 4, 1937
Rec'd 7:15 a.m.
cy of State
ashington
5., March 4, 2 p.m.
One. Naotake Sato, urtil now Japanese Ambassador
to
rance, was installed as inister for Foreign affairs
last  vening. Sato has spent over 30 years in the
力
Ja se Foreign Service, all in Europe except for five
yars as Consul General at Harbin. He has had no service
C
in Ch na proper or the mericas.
Twe. Domei states that Sato is honest and tenial
but at the same time has  stern character and a "samurai-
like solidity".
Three. In an interview with Japanese newspaperme
last  ight Sato expressed tle opinion that the foreign
policy of a state should  ossess continuity and that
ther fore it would probaol be necessary for him to adapt
his reconceived vievs on oreign policy to the need for
continuity (in other words, he is rot planning radical
changes in policy). He admitted that he anticipated some
0
dif iculty in reconciling his views with those of other
O
menbers of the Cabinet (presumably tho se of the army and
navy unisters) and regretted that his task would be
much

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.95)
U -2- #69, Mar. 4, 2 p.m. from Tokyo
much the more difficult by the fact that his long
residence abroad had prevented him from becoming familiar
with lorestic political conditions.
ur. sato's appeint nt was generally well rece ved
iarnin by th vernaci lar press. The ASAhI anticipat-
ed ut atc will establis a strong unified diplomac,
basra r agreement of viens hetween the Foreign Cffice,
thee ayy and th mavy u
centered on policies vis a vis
Co. na and the Soviets. The HoCHI believed that Sato will
ic nd liberalism in diplo nacy. The NICHI IICHI stated
tha: Sato is the nost suitable choice from among the
cai ciplomats and strussed the need for unified dip-
lo aey. The YoMfURI exprossed the opinion that Sato's
lac of intimate knowled
of China and full k owled e 
Eurc e may be an asset because half of the difficulty
in ealing with China aris s from uropean and American
irflence in that country.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
KLP:VO

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/707
Tol.306-1lam.
SEE
FOR
FROM
France
Wilson
) DATED
Mar.5.1937
7011
NAME
REGARDING:
Appointment of Sato,as Minister for Foredgn
Affairs of Japan: Views of Massigli on this
appointmont;
fpg
326

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.89)
U
This telegram must be
Paris
closuly paraphrased
befo. Leins communicated
Dated larch 5, 1937
to an one. (A)
γ
1a.m.
0
 tary of Stat
0
Maunin ton
300, urch 6, 11 a.
TNELAL.
assigli told mo last right that l considered
thr a pcintment of Sato, recertly Japan  Ambassador
f
her, as linistur of For   Affairs or  Japarese
Gevernment a very hopuful development. He said that
C
the  r ign office had found Sato honust and stra aht-
C
rwar itl oderate vies. His inforration is shat
Sato l: ia down his own conditions which were agreed to
7
be or he accepted the post and that he will be anything
O
hut a rubber stamp. Massigli added that if Sato had bee
7
Foreign Minister there would have been no diversities
Japarere Agreement last ovember and that he believed
Sato would be able to "attenuat " the effects thereof.
WILSON
TC:CDB

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.00 P.R./110
Desp.#2257
SEE
FOR
894.002/
Japan
Grow
Feb.15,1937
FROM
) DATED
/k/11
NAME
1-1187
327
REGARDING:
The Cebinet:Formation of new Cabinet.Reports
rogarding -.
fpg
ω
2

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.98)
(b). The Cabinet.
After the resignation of the Hirota Cabinet, the
Emperor on January 24 requested General Kazunari Ugaki,
894.
002
the well-known liberal, to form a Cabinet.*** Ostensibly
on the ground that the Army would not be capable of en-
forcing discipline with an Ugaki Cabinet in power, the
Army refused to furnish a War Minister for the proposed
Cabinet and therefore on January 29 General Ugaki reported
to the Emperor that he was unable to form a Government.
There was a strong undercurrent of criticism among the
people of the Army's obstruction of General Ugaki, who
undoubtedly was the nation's choice as Premier. According
to the press, Baron Hiranuma, reported to have fascist ten-
dencies, was asked to form a Cabinet but stated that he
was unable to accept the responsibility of the Premiership.
On January 29 General Senjuro Hayashi, retired, War Minister
in the Okada Cabinet until hts resignation on September 4,
1935, was selected to form a Cabinet, which task it was
believed would not be difficult in view of the Army's support
of the Premier-designate.****
(c).
*
Embassy's despatch No. 224l of February 1, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 21 of January 23, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 22 of January 24, 1937.
****
Embassy's telegram No. 34 of January 30, 1937.

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894,002/
SEE
701.9451/14
FOR.aspatch.#4845
FROM .....Switzerland
(...Wilaon.) DATED...March4..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
328
REGARDING:
Naotake Sato, Japanese Anbassador to Paris,has been named
Minister for Foreign Affairs at Tokyo. Impression thereof
given.
M
(
0.2
328

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.92)
bern. Muroh 4, 1937
No. 4845
ubject: Chunes in the Japunese iplomatic
orvice.
1↓.11.Y:F1I
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
isnington.
Sir:
I have the nonor to invite uttuntion to desputches
from Tokyo printed this mornin to the efrect thut
Mr. Naotaré :ato, now  ossador to . uris, nus been
numed Minister for Foreign  fruirs nt Tokyo.t tis
same time nnouncement was mude of tho fpointment of
Mr. Sugimure to Paris, Mr. Hotta to .ome. und Mr. mau
to Bern.
It so ruprone th t 1 know weli the first three
gentlomen named, and I um struck by the fuct that ti.ree
diplomatio officers, all of whon mitht be cslled dis-
oiples of the unidehera school, ure advanced to posts
of such importance by the present Covernment.
It may be useful if I detail for you my impressions
of

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
of the three men.
Mr. Nuotaké Ssto
I nave worked closely with Sato for a number of
yeare. lie wes representative on the rreparstory Com-
mission on Disarmament, on the uisarmament Conference,
and to some extent represented his Covernment in Geneva
through the Manchurien dispute. I nsve kept up my con-
nection with uto by visits in Peris aa I pussed through.
Sato 1s one of tnose rare Jupanese who has been able to
animete  esterners whom he meets with a feelins of of-
fectionate confidence. In this respect the lute aburi
only had the sume ift, in my experience.
I know that Sato s the most intiante conviction
of the necessity for hormonious coo ration vetween
Jupan and other nations of the vorld, including the
United st.tes.  ile ne t. never been lacking in com-
plete loyaity to is Government, nor given umay unything
in a trede that re ha: not thoroughly made up his mind
to, nevertheless, in th- course of our lont contact I
feel thet I know .is mind nd whet he would like to do.
nile ris influ nce m y not preva1l when he reaches
Tokyo, I nave not the least doubt that it will be thrown
in the scale of reason bloness in internal cebat.. No:
have I any doubt th-t, if at any time the possibility
should arise for bettering the relations between the
United states end Japan, Sato would prove a loyel col-
laborator to that end.
Sato's principal sympsthy outside of nis own country
is in France, where he has spent many years of his career.
He is more at home in French than in English and prefers
to speak it. His English, however, is sdequste, though
somewhat

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
somowhat painstaking.
During recent months Sato has been painfully im-
pressed by the development of the "Rome-Berlin axis" and
particularly by the Japanese-German declaretion in res-
pect to Bolshevism. To such an extent is this true that
he stated both to a member of tho French Foreign Ofrice
and to a member of the Le gue of Nutions  ecreteriat
that he thought he would have to retire from the Japan-
ese service since he was out of sympathy with the trend
of events. hat hes raprened to induce him to carry on
the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs under these
conditions 1 cannot say. but it may bo useful to our
Embassy in Tokyo to know his thoughts on this subject.
Mr. Sugimure
Sugimure wus for muny yeurs an Under  ecretery Gen-
eral of the Leegue of Nations. During that time his
closest friends were ric Drummond and Frank Yalters.
No more ardent believer in the Leugue of Nations snd in
1ts role in international affairs existed than Sugimurs.
Indeed, during the Manchurian orisis he frequently risked
his official existence by his efforts to brint about some
form of settlement of the dlspute which could enable
Japan to remain in the League
Mr. Hotta
Mr. Hotta has been my colleague in Lern for several
years and we have had many discussions both of suropean
events and of the reistions of our two countries. Hotta
has made no seoret of his unnappiness at the inability
of our two countries to reaoh an agreement on naval
mattere, nor has he given up hope that some change in the
Japanese Government's attitude may still make this pos-
s1ble.

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.89)
-4-
sible. I have the impression, whioh it is impossiole
to confirm, thut Hotte is not u man of us vigorous
crarecter or of the force of jotermination of either
Yato or sug imur. This tuy bo bacause I hve meen him
only in the rie of ouserver uno not in the role of
ctive rtici tor or everts.
I n s: niny copies of t. 1s uesi ton to 4:. Gren.
:r. r.iiii. , un: bi. builitt.
hespectfully your
liuch. lison
F1le No. 701
H JE
In quintuplicate to uprtment
Copies to mericn mb asies t
Tokyo, nome and raria.

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00 P.R./111
#2314
FOR
894.002/
FROM Japan
Grew
March 17, 1937
..) DATED
TO
NAMC
1--1187
Cabinet under the Premiership of General Senjuro Hayashi:
REGARDING:
installed in office Feb 2, l937; members listed. Comments
329
on certain statements of policy made by Hayashi shortly after
taking office.
6
FRG.

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.98)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
74.502
A Cabinet under the Premiership of General Senjuro
Hayashi was installed in office on February 2, consisting
of the following members:
Minister for Education, General Hayashi (concurrently)
Minister for Overseas Affairs, General Hayashi
(concurrently)
Jar Minister, Generel Kotaro Nakamura
Navy Minister, Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai
Minister for Finance, Mr. Toyotaro Yuki
Minister for liome Affairs, Mr. Kakichi Kawarada
Minister for Justice, Mr. Suchiko Shiono
Minister for Communications, Count Hideo Kodama
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Tatsunosuke
Yamasaki.
Minister for Commerce and Industry, Admiral Tatsuo Godo
Minister for Railways, Admiral Godo (concurrently)
General Nakamura, wino was appointed only as a stop-gap War
Minister, was succeeded on February 10 by General Gen
Sugiyama.*
The
* Embassy's despatch No. 2268 of Februery 18, 1937.

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.98)
-9 -
The Hayashi Cabinet's first statement of policy,
issued on February 8, was nebulous and ambiguous.* A more
significant statement of policy was contained in the
Premier's speech before the Diet of February 15.**
The
part of this speech which dealt with internal political
affairs was conciliatory in tone and indicated a desire
to cooperate with the Diet as far as possible. Those
sections of the speech which dealt with foreign affairs
and Government finance are discussed in other parts of
the present report.

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/782
Te1#107, 9pm
FOR
894.002/330
FROM
Japan
Grow
) DATED ▲pr11 10,1937
TO
NAME
1-1187
General policies of the cabinet.
REGARDING:
Outline of-, issued, in view of the general election to be
held Aprii 30, 1937.
FRG.
330

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.96)
1w
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated April 10, 1937.
Rec'd 9:50 a.m.
Secretary of State
Wani.in.ton
107, Apri1 10,  p.m.
in view of the Beneral clection te be held on April
30, the Cabinet this evening issu ed an outline of its gener-
al policies. Accordin: to the press they are in brief as
68
follows:
O.'undamental cducational r formation including
0
thorough cla: icatier f the national policy.
0
Two. eform of the parliamentary system and adjust-
722
ment of ad inistrative organs including the establishment of
a central ir ureau and reform of the governmental person-
nel system.
Three. Establishment of a national diplomatic
polity.
Four. Repletion of rational defense and preparation
for general mo.ilization.
Five. Establishment of a social policy including
improvement of the national HYsIQuE, organization of social
insurance systems, improvement of the welfare of the work-
ing classes, et cetera.
Six

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.95)
1w, 2, No. 107, Apri1 10, 9 p.m. from Tokyo
Six. Development of national strength through the
self supply of iron, liquid fuels and other raw materials,
through synthetic development of industries, through control
and unification of electric resources thro th expansion of
communi cations et cetera.
Seven. Rehabilltation tf a rarian, forestry and
fishin industries.
El. t. The adjustment u fiscal conditiens by re-
formation . rit syuum of taxation, prevention of an un-
due rise in prices, adjustrert of supply and demand of goods,
securiny or sources of raw materials, expansion of foreign
trade, developant of shippinr and encoura ement of emi-
graticn.
Conment follows by despatch.
RF
WWC

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.95)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00/736
FOR
#2395
Japen
G) DATED Apr11 30.1937
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
Proposed Japanese Planning Board: Reporting concerning-,
394.0027
REGARDING:
comments on the multitude of suggestions for new commissions
and bureaus, stating this phenomenon is a reasonable conse-
quence of distrust in the constituted political machinery.
Encloses clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER, Apr1l 20, 1937,
"Ministers Approve Plans For Board To Study Policies".
FRG.
0:
3
C

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.97)
73-1
TELEGRAM RECEIV
OTE OF E
MJP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1-1806
This telegram must be
FroMTokyo
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated June 4, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 9 a.m.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
Department of State
Washington.
894.002/332
149, June 4, 5 p. m. .1
894-002
Embassy's 142, June 1, 5 p. m.
Shinji Yoshino, Minister of Commerce and Industry,
in the Konoe Cabinet, is the man who as Vice Minister
of Commerce and Industry and in association with
Kurusu of the Foreign Office negotiated the so-called
five point memorandum with the representatives of
the o1l interests in April 1935. He is devoted to the
development of Japanese industries but on the other
hand takes a practioal and realistic view of Japan's
position and on the whole is friendly to foreigners
JUN1937
and foreign commercial interests in Japan.
TID
GREW
CSB
F/G

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/333
SEE....894.00/738
FOR ....Tel#14l..7pm
FROM ..... Japan
(...Grew
..) DATED ...May..31..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
Hayashi Cabinet: resignation this afternoon.
REGARDING:
Decision of resignation followed soon after a strong public state-
ment by Prince Konoe that the Hayashi Cabinet should have ad-
mitted some ministers taken from the parties, immediately after
the election. The next cabinet will probably contain a few
ministers taken from the parties.
FRG.
3
3
3

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.89)
MJP
4 porti on of this
Toyo
teleran must be closely
parephrased before being
Dated May 31, 1937
conmnunicated to anyonE.(A)
Rec'd 9:30 a.m.
SeevEbnry or State,
ashington.
S.
141, H 51,7m.
  t rEsighed n ftrrnoon.
The meo cat at will prooebly contoin a few m nisters
tatcn from the partiEs, in rEsponsE to a concerted
drivE  E nartiEs during thE last fEv deys.
decasi on of veai nntion folloved coon after e strong
public abe bcoent
 PrincE : onoE tat thE "ayashi
Cabinet s ould have adnitted sone nisters taken fron
thE parties imlediately after thE Election.(END GRAY)
i JananesE cut'oritiEs attributE thE s tuation to
a serious error of nolitical judgment on the part of
the Premier.
GREV
RR

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
FOR ...Tel#143..7pm
SEE 894,00/739
894.002/
(.. Grow
) DATED . June 1, 1937
FROM ....Japan
TO
NAME
1-1127
Resignation of Hayashi Cabinet; forming of new cabinet.
REGARDING:
Prince Konoye has been chosen to form a new cabinet; according
3
to press; confirmation and interpretation will follow.
34
FRG.
3
力

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.83)
FE
JR
GRAY
Tokio
Dated June 1, 1937
Rec d 7:2 a.m.
Secretar of state,
HoTE
11,
s anne ne t onoye has 
chnowt
to1o and r 
tatio  i lollow.
A

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/740
Te1.#144-10pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/
Japan
Grew
June 1,1937
FROM
) DATED
to11
NAME
1-1127
3
REGARDING:
Attempt of Prince Konoe to form a new Cabinet:
Roports regarding -. Prince Konoe is attempting
5
to persuade Hirota to become Foreign Minister.
3
fpg
3
0

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
JR
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated June 1, 1937
Rec'd 12:45..m.
secretary of State,
894.
wechngton.
14, Jume 1, 10 p.m.
739
 bassy's numbor 143/ June 1, 7 p.m., confirmed.
Iriuce onoc has undertaken the formation of a
Cabinet a  is  enerally (xpeete o be successful.
894.00
aki ; into account availavle information and in
view cf  ait that the military-controlled Hayashi
cabinet rocis d with the evident purpose of forestalling
an unruly Diet, it appears likely that Konce will attempt
740
to form a Cabi..et in which the War, Havy an Finance
Ministers will remain in office and the Minsedoto and
Seiyukai vill be represented.
I cm informed that Konoe is trying to persuade
Hirota, his personal friend and political adviser, to
becone Foreign inister. If the latter feels that the
present is tso soon to roenter politics it is generally
expected that Satc, who was selected by Hayashi on
Hirota's recomnendation, will romain or that Konoe himself
will take the position.
GREW
RR:HPD

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/744
Te1¥148, 1pm
SEE
FOR
894.002/
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED June41937
TO
NAME
1—1127
Selection of Konoe to form new cabinet; composition of same.
REGARDING:
Discusses-, stating that formal investiture of cabinet is ex-
CN
pected today, when Kaya is expected to accept the Finance
3
portfolio.
9
FRG.
336

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
MJP
A porti on of this
Tokyo
telegram must bE closely
paraphrased before being
Dated May 31, 1937
communicated to anyonE.(A)
Rec'd 9:30 a.m.
Secretary of State,
OTE
Washington.
894,002
RUSH
141, May 31, 7 p.m.
The Tayashi Cabinet resigned this afternoon.
The next cabinet will probably contain a few m nisters
894.
talen from the partiEs, in rEsponsE to a concerted
drive by thE parties during the last few days. The
decigion of resignation followed soon after a strong
public statement by PrincE KonoE that the Hayashi
7
00
Cabinet should havE admitted somE ministers taken from
8
thE parties immediately after thE Election.(END GRAY)
Iigh JapanEsE authorities attributE thE situation to
a sErious Error of political judgment on the part of
the Premier.
GREW
RR

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
JR #14, June 4, 1 p.m., from Tokyo.
There seems to bo little doubt but that the parties now
possess a d structive power, but their inability to put
forwar an untelligent and constpuctive program leads most
observors
 b lieve that Ronoul. pres nt great popularity
warrants hi avoi ine too clos  sort of arcocintion
with the tis.
hr
 iselosure o m osition of the new
Jal un v rseon th enthusiastic
res one of oh pr os to eoleeta of  onoe.
Four.Im ent by press an y individuals is that the
continuanee in offic of pr sent inictors of Tar and
Navy ir itt' at inerease
ent an doctrine of
"inereac  ow y of incustrial vo uct ion" favorer by the
armed servic  are to b amone the labinot's polieies.
In businoce cirelce the aupointment so the Home Ministry
of Babe, wioe: views on finane are considered to be unsound
as well  unorthodox, is reg rde vith apprehension.
Although i is roported that haya will if appointed follow
the policies of his pred cunsor, it seems doubtful whether
he has sufficient prostige and force to counteract the
probable ndecvors of cabinet of icers previously mentioned
to give effect to policies leading toward more rigid state
control over industry and toward uncontrollable financial
inflation.
Five. The collapse of the Hayashi Cabinet of itself
has

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.81)
3
JR /14, June 4, 1 p.n., from Tokyo.
has olininated certein elements of uncertainty and the
formatier   new Jabinet will undoubtedly tend to
stal 1l
lirie l no e nomie conditions. I shall
i'hhol
Popr efrort at unturpreting significan of
h or  t ane of soverr nt until th olieies of the
onee la t ay been iselorr an discusser in the
prusc.
T.
h
0.1t 
on hiro
Sevn.
I re make availabl. coviee to Sommeree and
Treesur
10
mail.
GREY
CSP

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/743
Tel.#145-5pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/ 337
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
June 3,1937
1t0/1
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
The Now Cabinet: Hirota has accepted the Foreign
Affairs portfolio; reappointment of Ministers
of War and of Navy,confirmd. Kaya,now Vice
Minister of Finance,has accepted the Ministry
of Finance. Formation of new Cabinet will probably
be completed before end of day.
fpg
3
7

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.96)
JR
GRAY
Toyo
00
Dated June 3, 1937
Rec'd 7:42 a.m.
8
Secretery of State,
Washington.
145, Junc 3, 5 p.m.
My tologram No. 144, Juno 1, 10 p.m.
Wo have just learned by telo hone from the Foreign
Offio thct Lirota has accepted tho Foreign Affairs
portfolio. The reappointmont of Ministers of War and
of tho Navy has been confirmed. Haya, now Vice Minister
of Finance, hes accepted the Min: stry of Finance.
It is conerally oxpected that the formation of the
new cabi ot will be completed before ond of the day.
GREW
VTVC:RR

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.94)
74-1
UNDLR SECH
THE
JUN 4- 1937
DcR
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 2, 1937
The selection of Prince Konoye as
JOPrime Minister of Japan.
JUN
NOTED
DIVISION OF
MM BrinencFumimaro Kopoye (Konoe), who has been com-
ANC
manded to form a Cabinet in Japan, is the first and highest
894.002
noble in Japan. The family traces its lineage back to the
"Age of the Gods". With the exception of Prince Saionj1,
894.4
he is the only representative of the pre-Restoration
894.002/
Kinmye
Court Nobility who has been active in Japan's political
life since the Restoration of 1868. It will be recalled
that after the February 26, 1936, Incident, Saionji recom-
mended Konoye as a successor to Okada, whose ministry fell
3
3
after that Incident, but Konoye declined at that time.
8
The fact that Konoye has again been sought for the premier-
ship is of exceptional significance. Not because of any
demonstrated political ability on his part but because of
his great family and personal prestige, which should enable
him to enlist the support of the ablest statesmen, he, if
111N
FILAD
anyone, may be expected to be able to bring the opposing
elements in Japan out of the deadlock which has been
1037
oreated by the inept methods of General Hayashi.
Konoye, who is forty-five years of age, will be the
youngest man who has been Prime Minister of Japan within the
last half century at least. So far he is without experience
in party politics. The positions of Vice President and
F/
President of the House of Peers whioh he has held suocessively
FG
since

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.97)
74-2
- 2 -
since 193l are traditionally regarded as requiring aloof-
ness from politics. Nevertheless, with the possible
exception of Hirota no recent Prime Minister has been
better trained to deal with affairs from a world point
of view. Konoye was on the staff of Prince Saionji,
the principal Japanese delegate to the Versailles Peace
Conference; he visited the United States in 1934, when he
was received by the President and by the Secretary, and
he had at that time a number of conferences with other
statesmen, publicists and business leaders. Articles
published by him upon his return to Japan and interviews
given by him show that in the course of his American
visit he obtained a good grasp of the American attitude
toward Far Eastern questions. He has a strong tie with
this country in that he has a son at Princeton.
It should not be understood, however, that Konoye's
selection for the premiership represents a triumph for
liberalism. It is true that he himself is inclined toward
liberalism, but his selection as Prime Minister is undoubted-
ly based upon the expectation that he will remain a neutral
in politics. His selection, therefore, represents rather
a compromise, and his Cabinet will probably be a coalition
formed by the retention of the Ministers of War and of the
Navy of the outgoing cabinet and the inolusion of repre-
sentatives of the political parties. While it is not yet
definite that he will succeed in forming a cabinet, there
is little likelihood that he will fail.
S
FE:JWB/DLX.m.√.

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 894.00/747
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
Far Eastern Division
FROM
(Ballantine....) DATED..June 7. 1937.
894.002/339
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
New cabinet under Prince Konoye.
Composition of-, and reaction to appointees.
FRG.
339

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/748
FOR....
2454
FROM ... Jaran
(Grw) DATED June 3, 1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/340
REGARDING:
Fall of the Hayashi Cabinet.
FRG.
340

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/750
¥2469
SEE
FOR
894.002/ 341
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
June 11, 1937
TO
NAME
1--1127
Konoe Cabinet: Composition of-, installed June 4, 1937.
REGARDING:
Encloses copy of memorandun of conversation with the Japanese
Minister for Foreicn Affairs.
FRG.
Ms

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/342
SEE
793.94/9005
FOR
Tel#226, 7pm
FROM .... Japan
Grew
..) DATED
July 27, 1937
TO
NAME
1-·1127
SPO
Text of Minister for Foreign Affairs' address,on foreign relations,
REGARDING:
delivered today in Diet, has been telecraphed to Japanese Em-
bassy at Washington for distribution. Cfficial statement of
Japanese cabinet reaffirms the intention of Japanese to take
measures to maintain cormunications between Peiping and the sea
and to protect foreien nationals in that area.
FRG.
3
f
2

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.92)
Fo
JR
A portion of this telegram
Tokyo
must bE closely paraphrased
beforE bEing communicatFd
Dated July 27, 1937
to anyonE. (A)
REc' 11:10 a.m.
Secretary of State,
inrton.
C. J. 1y 27, 7 p.m. (GRY)
. Tr Forrign CrPicE states that text of Hinister
for origr Af airs' addres or Corcign relations dslivered
thie p  the Liet hu e t-legra hed to Jaoanest
Emba y at  in ter fer dist ibution.
793.94
Twe.  Pficial statEment relr sE by thE Cabinet
this  tp oon rra firms ths intention o' thE JapanFsE
Gove rsnt to takE measure- to rai tnir communicetions
betwern   and the sEa and te mrotect nationals in
that are.. The sta trment dFclarE that thE JapanEsE Govam
0
05
ment has noterritorial dreigns and that it will take
Every pr-caution to protect the rights in that area of th-
other powrrs. ThF statement coneludes vith an Expression
of hopr that thE ChinesE Government will takE measures to
restrict thE scopE of thE pres'nt difficulties in order
that a satisfactory solution may be found as soon as
pOssiblE. (TD GRAY).
ThreE. The Cabinet's stat-ment whilE uncompromising
in its content is believed to havE bEen put out at this
timE in ordEr to rEnder morr Easy compliancE by the 29th
Army with the tErms of the ultimatum dElivered by the
JapanEsE

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
JR /226, July 27, 7 p.m., from Tokyo.
JapanEsE comrondrr in thE PEipin: arEa to thE CommandEr
of the Chiress Poth Army. E undEratand that that
ultimatun  l.ie. i: to Ex ire tono row was siven on the
initiativr o" the JaparesE com iander himarlf but the
Cabinet statement indieater that the JapanEss commander
will probably be given full authorization to act in the
ryr   t Ititur expire without complianer by
the ae ip ite trrms.
ur, Irr rmation from relinblE sources indicates
tha's t's r srr xtenaive movements o' troops towert the
soutlvest or rar in varioue art of ts contey rd
that ths trou bein moved cont
arouter propertion
of men cobat branches tlar heretofore bEen not
The Hilit ry Att che believe, however, that thus far
the movements are prrcautionary or preparatery in nature
rather nr part of a general mobilisation.
Five. Facts arr Flusive but the impression orE obtairu
on all sidcs is that a crisi: i- ap roaching.
RipEatrd to iFiping.
GRT!
RR:HPD

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./114
Desp.#2462
SEE
FOR
894.002/
Japan
Grew
June 9,1937.
FROM
) DATED
to11
NAME
1-1127
343
REGARDING:
The Cabinet and Political Parties: Results of the
Diet elect ion of April 30,1937,as interpreted by
the Japenese press.Statements issued by the
Cabinet,in this connection.
w
f
3
Ipg

=== Page 596 === (confidence 1.00)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet and the Political Parties.
The Japanese press in general interpreted the results
of the Diet election of April 30 as a defeat for the Hayashi
94.
Cabinet, a victory for the political parties.* Since there
were no clear-cut issues offered by either of the major
political parties, the Seiyukai and the Minseito, the voters
elected much the same class of men to the Diet as those who
had been members when the House was dissolved on March 31,
1937.**
On May 3 the Cabinet issued a statement to the effect
that the Lower House had been dissolved on March 3l because
regeneration of parliamentary government was the cornerstone
of governmental reform; that the Government wanted the newly-
elected Diet members to be guided by a spirit of self-sacrifice
in
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2428 of May 15, and Embassy's
Monthly Political Report for April, Section III (a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2423 of May 14, 1937.

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.99)
-12 -
in developing the constitutional system peculiar to Japan;
that the people shared the Government's desire in this respect;
and that the Government would continue on its way "confident
of the nation's support of the Government's earnest desire
for perfect cooperation with the people."*
Premier Hayashi issued a statement to the effect that
the election returns were not a surprise to the Government
and that the Government had had no intention of attempting
to win the election.
Opposition to the Government by the Seiyukai, the Min-
seito, and the Shakai Taishuto increased during the month,
leaders of these parties issuing statements which assailed
the policies of the Hayashi Cabinet and particularly its
high-handed attitude toward the parties. The political
parties were particularly irate over General Hayashi's
failure to include in his Cabinet a few Ministers taken
from the parties. Finally on May 3l the Hayashi Cabinet
resigned en bloc. The decision of the Cabinet to resign
came soon after the issuance of a vigorous public statement
by Prince Konoe that Premier Hayashi should have chosen some
Ministers from the political parties immediately after the
election of April 30.**
Little or no progress seemed to have been made during
the month toward the establishment of the proposed new
political party, reactionary in character and designed to
support the Hayashi Cabinet or similar non-party cabinets
that might be formed in the future.

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./115
Deap.#2503
SEE
FOR
894.002/ 344
Japan
Grew
July 9,1937
FROM
) DATED
☆11
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
The Cabinet:Gives names of the Konoye Cabinet.
rpg
3
f
f

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.99)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
Following the resignation of the Hayashi Cebinet on
May 31 the following Cabinet, under the Premiership of Prince
Konoye, was installed on June 4:
Foreign Minister: Mr. Koki Hirota, member of the House
of Peers, former Pr-mier and Foreign
Minister.
Home Minister:
Dr. Eichi Daba, member of the House
of Peers, former Finance Minister (Hir-
ota Cabinet).
Finance Minister:
Mr. Okonobu Kaya (Vice Minister for
Finance under Finance Minister Yuki
in the Hirota Cabinet).
Minister of War:
General Gen Sugiyama, continuing in
office.
Minister of Navy:
Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai, continuing in
office.
Minister of Education: Mr. Eiji Yasui, Governor of Osaka
Prefecture.
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: Count Yoriyasu
Arime, member of the House of Peers.
Minister of Commerce and Industry: Mr. Shunji Yoshino,
former Vice Minister for Comnerce and
Industry (Hirota Cebinet).
Minister
* Embassy's telegram No: 171, July 1, 1937.

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Minister of Communications:
Mr. Yutaro Nagai, a Min-
seito member of the House
of Representatives, former
Minister for Overseas Affairs.
Minister of Reilways: Mr. Cuikuhei Nakajima, a Seiyukai
member of the House of Representa-
tives.
Minister for Overseas ffairs: Mr. Sonyu Otani, member
of the House of Peers.
Minister of Justice: Mr. Sui iko Shiono, continuing in
office.
On the evenin of June 4 Prince Konoye stated in a radio
address that it would be his policy in foreign relations to
seek international justice, and in domestic relations to seek
social justice. (It was subsequently reported that the Premier
was studying measures for the realization of "peace based on
justice and not on the status quo". If such is the Premier's
plan it would indicate that he intends to further Japan's de-
sire for a redistribution of world markets). Prince Konoye's
radio address did not constitute a political platform. In
fact, his statement that he could not yet announce concrete
points of his platform gave the impression that the policy
of the Cabinet would be to meet questions as they arise rather
than to try to carry out any formulated platform.*
Before accepting the task of formine a Cabinet Prince
Konoye obtained tha consent of the irmy and the Navy to the
continuing in office of General Sugiyama and Admiral Yonai as
Army and Navy Ministers, respectively. This consent was ap-
parently given without conditions as to the composition of the
Cabinet. Therefore, it represented an expression of confidence
in Prince Konoye as Premier rather than an approval of the in-
dividuals to be chosen for each post in the Cabinet.
Japanese
* Embassy's despatch No. 2469, June 11, 1937.

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
Japanese businessmen and financiers were openly apprehen-
sive concerning the appointment as Home Minister of Dr. Baba,
former Finance Minister, since they feared that he would be,
as heretofore, an agent of the military element in promoting
plans for the expansion of rigid control over industry and for
expensive schemes which will strain the country's credit and
resourccs.
On June 7 Premier Konoye appointed Mr. Hirota Chairman
of the Plannin Board which lied been established by Imperial
Ordinance on May 13, 1937, auring the incumbency of the Hayashi
Cabinet. The Board is apparontly designed to be a coordinating
agency of Government policy. However, the powers of the Board
as set forth in the Orainance of May 13 are vefue to the point
of obscurity.*
(b) Political Parties.
Although the Konoye Cabinct contains only onc Minister
from the Seiyukai and only one Minister from the Minseito, the
two parties appeared to bo satisficd with the Cabinet, partly
because of Premier Konoye's accision not to attach any con-
ditions to tho appointment of thc Seiyukei and Minseito Min-
isters. On the dey of installation of the new Cabinet the
joint Minscito-Seiyukai committce for the overthrow of the
Hayashi Cabinet cisbanded. Furthcrmore, the two perties
agreed that whilc the new Cabinct's stand regarding the po-
litical parties wes regrettablc in somc rospects, the pertics
should eive the Cabinet their morel support.
Accordine to the JAPIN DVERTISER of June 22, the Politi-
cel Rcform Council,  rightist organization, has decided to
abandon its plan to organize c strong politiccl party includ-
ing all roform clomonts, owing to the strongth of the reform
movemont
* Embcssy s despetch No. 2466, June 10, 1937.

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
movement in the Minseito and Seiyukai parties. This news-
paper stated that the rightist organization in question
would concentrate on the formation of a group in the Lower
House, with right-wing independents as its nucleus, to off-
set the influence of the Social Mass Party.
(c). The Diet.
The apparent approval of the Cabinet by the Seiyukai
and the Minseitc would indicate that the two major parties
do not intend to be obstructive in the next session of the
newly elected House of Repres ntatives.* The Diet has been
ordered to convene on July 23 and to be in session for 14
days.
(a). The Army.
According to the TOKYO ICHI NICnI of June 3 the "Big
Three" of the Army (the War Minister, the Chief of the Gen-
eral Staff, and the Inspector (eneral of Military Education)
consented to the appointment of General Sugiyama as War Min-
ister in the Konoye Cabinet in consideration of the follow-
ing four items of policy to be fulfilled by the new Cabinet:
1) clarification of the national polity; 2) repletion of
national defense; 3) stability of the living of the people;
and 4) reform of the Diet. It will be remembered that these
aims have been openly sponsored by the Army ever since the
Incident of February 26, 1936.
In view of the shortage of officers in the Japanese
Army, the War Office has decided to increase considerably
not only the number of cadets in the Military Academy but
also the number of recruits in the Military Preparatory
Academy. The Army also disclosed that the age of recruits
for the Military Preparatory Academy would be raised from
16
* Embassy's despatch No. 2469, June 11, 1937.

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
16 to 20 to from 16 to 22.
(e). House of Peers.
Prince Konoye has been known for some time to be in
favor of reforming the House of Peers. He was said to have
told newspaper reporters on June 20 that in his opinion a
reform of the Upper House should first of all include a re-
duction of the proportion of Peers to the total membership
of the Upper House; that the Lower House represented public
opinion and could thus be called the House of common sense;
and that the House of Peers should have more men of expert
knowledge and experience and be reorganized so that it would
stand for "expert opinions and not for the Peers". It was
reported by the press that even the progressive members of the
House of Peers were "astounded" at Premier Konoye's views.
TV.
COURSE OF LECTSLATTCN

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
394.002/ 345
SEE
793.94/9339
FOR
Tel/2626pm
FROM .....Japan
(GReW) DATED
Allc 13.1937
TO
NAME
1-117
SinoJapanese situation: Shanghai and orth China.
REGARDING:
Meeting of certain ministers last night, followed by emergency
Cabinet meeting this morning, resulting in issuance of state-
ment which will be reported in American press: Reports con-
cerning-,
FRG.
h

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
NL
Tokyo
A portion of this
telegram must be closely
Dated August 13, 1937
paraphrased before being
coinmnicated to anyone.
Rec'd 11:10 a. m.
(A-1)
NOTE
Secretory of State
Washington
262, August 13, 6 p. m. (Gray)
One. A meeting of four ministers (Foreign, War, Navy,
and linance) was held last night to consider the serious
sitratien at Shanghai. This was followed by an emergency
793.
Cabinet meeting this morning resulting in the issuance of
a statoment which will be reported in the American press.
(End Gray).
Two. In a conversation with the Naval attach after
2
the Cabinet mecting the Senior Aido to the Navy Minister
stated that Vice Admiral Hasegawa commanding the third
squadron at Shanghai had rocormended yesterday afternoon
that a last effort be made to effect a peaceful settlement.
(GRAY) The Japanese naval landing forces at present at
Shan chai mumber only 30o0 and they are faced with the task
of guarding 30,00o Japanesc nationals now concentrated in
tho Japanese concession. Against the Japanese at presont
aro 10,000 of the Chincse 88th Division in Chapei and
20,000 to 30,000 of Contral forccs to tho castward of
Chapoi in the direction of Woosung. Last night the 88th
Division crossed the Nanking-loosung Railroad and the
Japanose

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.99)
ML-2-
Tokyo August 13, 1937 #262 11:10 a. m.
Japanese landing force took up defensive positions along
North Szechuan Road facing the Chinese. (END GRAY).
Three. The Senior Aido took occasion to say to the
Naval Attache that at yostcrday's meeting of consular offi-
cials in Shanghai the American attitude was "very fair and
just" whereas the attitude of British, French and other
consular officials was "diffcrent."
Four. While the Senior Aide was unable to disclose
the Jap nese plans it is the opinion of the Naval Attache
that no furthor reenforcements of troops or vessels are to
be sent to Shanghai at the prosent juncture to avoid aggra-
vatin, the situation. The four cruisers and ten lostroyers
of the third squadron which arrived with the naval landing
forees itve left Shanghai.
Five. Regarding the situation in North China, War
Denartment officers consider the present disposition of
Chineso troops as threatening to the safety of the Japanese
forces. Ceneral Umezu informed the Military Attache that
the Japanese would not attack unless the Chinese advanced
but the prompt and overwhel ing "counter attacks" of Chinese
"attacks" at Nankow and Lianghsiang are evidence of the
Japanese determination to enforce fulfillment of the various
military agreements and to force a definite settlement of
the lorth China situation. (See the Military Attache's
telegram of August 13 to the War Department).
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
DDMHPD

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.97)
8.94.062
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./116
FOR.....Deopatah.2524
894.002/
FROM
Japan
Gre) DATEDAugust5. 1937.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese Cabinet.
346
Plans of the-, such as the one for the creation of a Ministry of
Health and for reform of the House of Peers, appear to be
shelved in view of the government's pre-occupation in North
China.
ho
Several Cabinet plans, such as those for the creation of a
Ministry of Health and for reform of the House of Peers, appeared to
nave been shelved by the Government as a result of the latter's pre-
Occupation in the North China situation. In fact, interest in the
internal political situation appeared to be overshadowed by the
concern felt by the Government, the press, and the people in general
over the North China difficulties.

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.97)
At
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 9, 1937.
In despatoh No. 2630 of October 18, Tokyo
reports the appointment of ten temporary coun-
selors to the Japanese Cabinet, who are in
effect cabinet ministers without portfolio,
serving on account of the emergency situation.
The men appointed are of better than ordinary
inet
rank and have been selected with care from
the more important fields of Japanese activi-
ties, more or less in pairs, a conservative
against a progressive. The move has definite
utility in preparation for generel acceptance
of whetever may be the terms of peace, show-
ing that the violent reection in Japan to the
peace negotiated with kussie in 1905 has not
been forgotten. The conservatives among these
counselors include General Araki, Admiral Suet-
sugu, and Baron Go. The progressives include
General Ugaki, Admiral Baron Abo, and Mr.
Ikeda. Mr. Matsuoka is in some respects a
progressive and in others a reactionary.
921
FB: J.VB: NN

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.90)
AWFE
EMBASSY OF THE
A
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2630.
Tokyo, October 18, 1937.
SUBJECT: TE.PORARY CABINET COUNSELORS, JAPAN.
52
ONI RID
C
10N 7561
44
c/
Cchyt Ancdelorat
Beciinlo
=8犬
Division of
FAR EASTERYFAIRS
人.
The Honorable
894.002/347
Lopartment of Statu
The Secretary of Statà
Washington.
AOATE
Sir:
have the honor to report the appointment on
A-M/C
15, 1937 of ten temporary counselors to the Japanese
(rinji naikaku sangi). The new counselors are in
efft cabinet ministers without portfolio, serving on ac
couft'of the emergency brought on by the hostilities in
1977
F/A
China.
The office of temporary cabinet counselor is created
by ordinance 593 promulgated on October 14, 1937, and ef-
fective from that date. The ordinance briefly states that
counselors shall have the status of cabinet ministers, and
that they are named by the Emperor to participate in plan-
ning by the Cabinet in important matters with regard to the
China incident. Their number is not stipulated.
It should be observed that the counselors are not
set up as a separate emergency council. For a long time
11
the

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the publio has been accustomed to hear proposals for the
creation of new planning and governing bodies, which have
usually been motivated by the desire to circumvent the
existing political organs. The present change, on the other
hand, has the virtue of not complicating the structure of
government while at the same time allowing for the audition
of outside statesmen to the administration's forces.
On October 15 the official gazette announced the
appointment of the following ten men to the newly created
office:
General Kazunari Ugaki, formerly governor
general of Chosen, unsuccessful by reason of
military opposition when named to form a
Japanese cabinet in January 1937.
Chuji Machida, president of the Minseito
party, formerly minister of commerce and industry.
Baron Kiyotane Abo, admiral, formerly minister
1
of the navy.
Baron Sadao Araki, general, formerly minister
021
of war, leader of the extreme military party
following the Manchuria incident of 1931.
Admiral Nobumaso Suetsugu, formerly member of
021
the supreme war council.
OBF
Yonezo Maeda, formerly minister of commerce
and industry.
Kiyoshi Akita, formerly Seiyukai speaker of
0F1
the house of representatives.
Yosuke Matsuoka, president of the South
CH
Manchuria Railway.
NBF
Baron Seinosuke Go, formerly president of
the Tokyo chamber of commerce.
OBP
Seihin Ikeda, formerly governor of the
Bank of Japan.
These men are of better than cabinet rank, as the
rank of men of cabinet caliber goes in ordinary peace times.
They have been selected with care from the most important
fields of Japanese activity, more or less in pairs, a con-
servative against a man of more advanced views. Baron Go
Vis a conservative business man, Mr. Ikeda a liberal business
man

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
man. General Araki is of the aggressive army group,
General Ugaki strongly opposes that group. Admiral Suetsugù
and Admiral Abo respectively represent two quite different
types of sentiment in the navy. Military representation is
heavy but not overpowering.
The addition of these counselors brings to the Cabinet
not only the advantae of the judgment of experienced leaders
but also the fuller support of the groups which they repre-
sent. Furthermore, the move has definite utility in prepara-
tion for general acceptance of whatever may be the terms of
peace to conclude the present hostilities. This aspect has
been noted, in fact, by several of the newspapers. The
violent reaction in Japan to the peace negotiated with Russia
by Komura in 1905 has not been forgotten. This time the
ground will be prepared, and tne broad representation brought
to the Cabinet by the new counselors can be counted upon to
be an important factor in the process.
Respectfully yours
Noeon 20.
71
Joseph C. Grew
8002
cC:mg
Copy to mbassy, Peiping.
1

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.97)
844.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./118
FOR.Deapatch.#2624
FROM
Japan
(.Grew
...) DATED..Qct..13...1932
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
The Cabinet and Spiritual Mobilization program:
Outlined-, as planned by the Government in Japan.
894.002/348
aa

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.99)
Accordine to the press, the Premier chose Mr. Masao Taki
for the post of President of the Planning Board, which is to
be amalgamated with the Cabinet's Bureau of Resources.
In conncction with the lhostilitics in China the Government
decided upon thc following "Spiritual Mobilization" program:
1. Manifestation of the Japanese snirit and the renova-
tin of social tr nds.
(a) Cultivation of the spirit of perseverance.
(b)
* Embassy's tulegram No. 344, September , 1937.
**Embassy's telceram No. 347, Septembur 5, 1937.

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
(b) Training of mind and body so as to stand
sufferings and privations.
(c) Inculcation of the spirit of supprossinε self-
scekinf considcretions for the sake of the common
(ood.
(d) Promotion of faithfulness in the discherce of one's
dutics.
2. Strengthening end meintenance of popular support for
those at the front.
(a) Manifestation or gratitude to the ofricers and
men at the front, and the dissemination of effectual
support for the Arny nd the Navy.
(b) Cultivation of thc spirit of mutual cid cmong
neichbors.
(o) Offer of labour for the public good.
3. Cooperation of the people to fecilitate the execution
of the emergency cconomic policy.
(a) Cultivation of industrious habits.
(b) Cooperation betwcen Capital and Labour.
(c) Abstention from monopolizing intercsts end from
profiteering.
(d) Encouragcment of subscription to nationcl bonds.
(c) Elimination of weste and the encouragement of
savings.
(f) Improvoment of the state of intcrnetional eccounts.
(g) Frugal usc of moncy.
4. Protcction of resourccs.
(c)

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
394.002/
SEE
894.00.P.R./119
FOR...2654
FROM .....JODAn
(...Grow
) DATEDNoV. 9. 1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
349
Political Affairs - Cabinet - Japan.
REGARDING:
Informs of appointment of ten counselors to Japanese Cab-
inet and reports rumors to effect that Premier Konoye might
resign, partly on account of ill health and partly because
of desire of military to have a strong Premier of chauvin-
ist Leanings. It was also said that Mr. Hirota's position
was somewhat shaken.
mr

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
because of the desire of the military to have a strong premier
of chauvinist leanings, such as General Araki or Admiral Suet-
sugu. It was lso s id thet Mr. Hirote's position was sonewhat
shaken and that the Army and the Navy favored his replacement by
Mr. Motsuoka, Presidont of the S uth M nchuria Railway Company.*
The following ten cuunselors to the Jupanese Cabinet, in
effuct cabinet ministers without pertfclio, who are to sorve on
account of the "Chine Emergency", were uppointed on Octobor 15:
General Ugaki, former Governor Goneral of Chosen; Mr. Chuji
Machide, President of the Minsoito p rty nd forier Ministor for
Conmerce nd Incustry; Baron Abo, rotired dmirl  nd fermer
N: vy Minister; Baron General Araki; Admiral Suetsugu, former
member of the Suprene War Council; Mr. Yonezo Maeda, forner
Minister for Commerce and Industry; Mr. Kioshi Akita, former
Seiyukai speaker of the House of Representatives; Mr. Matsuoka,
President of the South Manchurie Railway Company; Baron Seino-
suke Go, former President of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce; and
Mr. Seihin Ikeda, former Governor of the Bank of Japan. **
Marquis Koichi Kido, President of the Bureau of Peerage
and Heraldry of the Imperial Household Department, was appointed
Education Minister on October 22 to succeed Mr. Eiji Yasui.
Although Mr. Yasui resigned ostensibly because of poor health,
it was rujored that the change had been made to strenthen the
Konoye cabinet.

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.98)
187
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 9, 1938.
PA/B
Mr Hornbeok
Tokyo's No. 2740, January 21, 1938,
disousses the appointment as Home Minister
on December 13 of Admiral Suetsugu.
The Embassy states that the appoint-
ment shows the orientation of Japanese
politios in 1937. The Admiral, it says,
is definitely of the group standing for a
renaissance of Japan under army-navy domi-
nance.
Reviewing the Admiral's career, the
Embassy says that he is and still enjoys
the distinotion of being the spokesman of
the big-navy group. It desoribes him as
outspoken, direct, severe, ohauvinistio,
dominating, and the embodiment of the
Japanese military mind.
In view of his appointment to the
responsible position of Home Minister,
particular attention attaohes to the inter-
view given by him two days before his ap-
pointment and published in the magazine,
Kaiso. This interview, discussing the con-
Fliot in China, is summarized on pages 4
and 5. The summary is important, indicating
the

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2
the positive and hostile attitude of the
Admiral toward "white" and articularly
British presence in Chin:, and ought to
be read. In fact, th whole interview, the
text of wnich i enclosed in the des atch,
makes good reading.
The British abussauor bre ht to the
attention of the F rei n .r ice the .dmiral's
anti-British outburst in the interview above
mentioned, but in view of the anti-British
sent iment revailin  in Japan, it is not
expected that he vill obtuin uny satis:action
The Embassy foresees increasin  fric-
ion between Japan und ritain, and in view
of the growin; hostility toward Britain
among Japanese considers that a leader as
confidently anti-British as Suetsu u is
bound to become a formidable fi ure in ."apan-
ese olitics. e is frequently mentioned as
:remier Konoye's probable successor.
人
WRL

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.89)
5789
1010
8
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
S38 FE3 7 PM 2 08
AMERICAN EMBASSY
18
.c.y0,  u1y 21, 198
ADRES
yqc.
FE
894.002/350
lg
The ..onorable
HORNB
12101838
The Jecretary of tate
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Neshington
FEB 16 1938
Sir:
On December 13, 1957, Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu
became Japanese Minister of Home Affairs, succeeding
Mr. Baba who had resigned shortly before for reasons
of health. Mr. Baba had been one of the strongest
leaders in the Konoe cabinet -- the individual most
relied upon by the Premier, according to a statement
made
11

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.96)
6790
:.
-2-
maue in Octover by the Premier's privete secretary
in personal conversation vith a member of my staff --
and nie resi  tion wit. the usuel ex lanation of
poor healtl:  ave i: meaitte rise to rumors of political
in tri ue. hese ruors were however aispelleo a few
days l ter by :r. aba's suaden death from pncunonia.
The new ome hlnister, au iral suctsugu, was
born in 1 80 and rauunted from the Ja anese naval
academy at the age of nineteen. e has risen rapidly
throu h an active neval career, becomin rear admiral
in 192s, comander-in-chief of the combined fleet in
1955, full edmiral in 1934, nember of the supreme war
council in 1955, enu, since co..mencement in July 1937
of the hostilities in ina, returning to the more
active stage in the office of cabinet councillor.
Suetsugu's appointment to the Home cffice shows
how far the orientation of Japanese politics veered
durin the year 1937. subseguent to the crave national
werning embodied in the insurgency of rebruary 26, 1936,
it was a conscious and determined aim of Japanese leaders
to clear from the ranis of the military services the
political machinations which were so seriously threaten-
ing military discipline. The composition of every
cabinet from that time forward has borne evidence of
that aim. The officers named to be the War and the Navy
Ministers in each succeeding cabinet were not chosen
from the partisans: they have been the ablest, most
regular, and politically and factionally most uncommitted
men

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.98)
6791
-3-
men available. This is not to assert, on the other
hand, tnet they nave been men opposed to a pre-eminent
ascendancy of the ilitary services in t.e formulation
of Ju anese poliey; but cere as been tahen that they
be not chosen trom the groups in the movement out of
which developed the political ussassinations and
attempted cours of the last hulr dozen yeurs. ow,
with the eppointment of Admiral Suetsugu, that principle
of evoidance is abandoned. fhe ew lome Minister,
though never considered one of the conspirators in
any of the verious incidents, is definitely of the group
standint for a renaissance of Jepan under army-navy
dominance.
In 1928 Suetsugu became vice chief of the navel
general staff, and it was fron that ofrice that he
resigned in protest over Japanese adherence to the
London naval treaty. Those opposed to limitation of
the Japanese navy took the position thet the government
misused the prerogative of the E peror in overriding the
opposition and ratifying the treaty, and the cabinet
was seriously embarrassed in consecuence of the gravity
which the question assumed. In this juncture Suetsugu
became the spokesman and leader of the big-navy group,
and he still enjoys that distinction. Outspoken, con-
fident, direct, severe, chauvinistic, dominating, he
has the very qualities which make the select type idealized
by the Japanese military mind.
By the time of the political assassinations of
May

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.96)
6792
-4-
May 15, 1932, Suetsugu found himself one of the
idols of the conspirators. Politica.ly ambitious,
he wes careful, at thet time and since, to do
noti.ir to lose the confiuence of tne youn direct-
actionist orricers. e continues to be looked upon
as the hi n navel orticer most tpproved by the younger
politically-minded men in the army and navy. y
reason or thi. Toilowin, whicn is ugain assusing
importance with the pro ress of the warfare in China,
and by reason of Admiral Suetsu u's recent elevation
to the responsible cabinet position of Minister of
Lome ffairs,  rticuler interest attaches to an
interview with hin published in the current January
issue of the J anese montly periodical o
1/
(enclosure 1). In tnat publication the interview is
dated December 11, two days before Juetsugu became
Home Minister.
The KAIzo's interview ascribes to Admiral Suetsugu
the expression of a number of frank views as follows:
He asserts that Kiangsu, Anhwei, Kiangsi, and part of
Lupeh will be in Japanese hands, and that the Nanking
Government will become a merely local regime if
surviving at all. Even Soviet anā British aid to
China will not avail. The realities in north China
cell for a new regime. Other local governments will
naturally arise elsewhere. All these governments, at
one in a common sympathy for Japan, can be expected
to unite. The interest of the white peoples in China
is an interest in profit in trade; the Japanese interest
18

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.98)
6793
-5-
is more inclusive and can not be guided by the
leisurely logic of occidentals. Cooperation of
Japan, Hanchuria, ana hina is essential. hether
or not this will mean ejection or the whites from
eastern sie must be a critical isuue for the future
course of history. orld peace is impossible unless
the colored reces are rescued from their miserable
slavery to the white races. To brin the liberation
about uickly mi ht mean great bitterness, but the
coal is clear. China boasts that it can resist
indefinitely; this must mean countin on British
assistance. his evil must be extirpated at the root,
even at the cost of a clash between Japan and Great
Britain. Japan is stron; and will never come to
Germany's fate of aefeat by blockade. In event of
war between Japan and ritain the United states would
surely stay out. Singapore would be difficult to
reduce, but Hongkon is vulnerable to submarine and
aircraft attack.  Japanese declaration of war on
China would be useful in stopping British sale of
arms to China. The fall of Nanking is a mere prelude
to the most important part of the hostilities; the
major fighting is over, but the real war is still
ahead.
In conversation (enclosure 2, despatch 2738,
January 21, 1938) on January 7 the British Ambassador
informed me of having brought to the attention of the
Japanese Foreign Office this anti-British outburst of
a

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.98)
574
-6-
a man in high Office, pointing out that although
the interview was dated two days previous to
Admiral suetsugu's becomin ome Hinister it was
not publis.ed until several Weeks t. ereafter and
could easily have been sto peu in the interval.
his observation is scarcely pertinent pecause even
at the time of the interview itself juetsu u was
already a cabinet couneillor, which amounts to being
a cabinet minister without portfolio, and tne same
limitations unon public ex ression of views mi ht be
expected fron such an official.
The fact is that the
air in Japan is so carged with anti-British sentiment
that such expressions from men in office do not seem
at all surprising to Jaranese; and it can be confidently
predicted that the ritisn mbassador will obtain no
satisfaction in the matter.
It is comon knowledge that admiral Suetsugu
favors a declaration of war against China, chiefly
as simolifying Japanese action against the British in
China. His arguments have been heard and weighed by
the Government, aná no war has been declared. But
Japanese friction with Great Britain in China is not
over. Japan, in the midst of & campaign of conquest,
finds herself face to face with British territorial
possessions and jurisdictional and political interests
in China, all of which stand in the way of the
completeness of Japan's conquest. There is therefore
a substantiality to Britain's interference to Japanese
expansion

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.99)
6795
-7-
expansion which is not paralleled by American
interests in China; and the Japanese attitudes toward
the United States and toward Great Britain are not
in the same cate ory. There is no inaication that
reletions with Great ritain are destined to improve
in the near future. atner is increasin friction
to be expectea, particularly rowing out of difricul-
ties at  onglon. If suen is the ruture course
Admiral Suetsu u must become a more and more formidable
figure in Japanese politics.
Adniral Suetsugu's ascendancy is e regression
reminiscent of the raki days. The soldier statesmen,
the soldier politicians, ere once again in the spotli it.
They can not be relegated to the wings in times like
the present, when the ilitary services are determined
to make a clean sweep of outstanding scores in Shina.
A leader whose bent is strongly and confidently anti-
British is that much more in step with the tines. Fre-
quent mention of Suetsugu as probable successor to
Frime Minister Honoe is not iale chatter. There can
be little cuestion that the present conjuncture favors
his political future.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew
800.2
CC:s
Encloure: Clipping, "Suetsugu's Views
in Magazine Create Sensation
Abroad", JAPAN ADVERTISER,
January 6, 1938.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.
Copy to Embassy, London.

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1, to dg
from the Embassy at Tokye.
6796
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, January 6, 1938.
SUETSUGU'S VIEWS
Mr. Yamamoto opened the ak
tion created by the fall of Manking.!
IN MAGAZINE CREATE
Admiral Suetsugu, who resigned from
the Supreme War Council only a few
months ago to become a member of
the Cabinet Advisory Counal, mmid It
SENSATION ABROAD
is fairly certain that a phase of the
warfare has ended and that strategie
plans will be devised anew.
"Kiangsu. Anhwei, Kiangsi and part
of Hupeh-all these wi'l be within the
Japanese sphere of influence," he con-
Talk Recorded in Kaizo Taken
tinued. "This will mean that the mo
fertile regions of China, or the greater
as Warning Whites to Be
part of Chinese territory, will be m
Japanese hands and that the Netionas
Pushed From Asia
Government. even if it continues to
exist, will be merely a local regime.
General Chiang Kai-shek is destined
PITTMAN NOT SURPRISED
to be relegated to the status of one
of those old warlords. His mo-called
long-term resistance against Japen will
British Startled but Doubt if
become impossible, it seems to ne.
"The only remaining hope is politi-
Attitude of Japanese Gov-
cal and economic support from the So-
viet Union or Great Britain, or direct
ernment Represented
armed assistance from them. The
Chiang regime will look to such 
sistance for continuation of its long-
IDEAS ON CHINA OUTLINED
term resistance. but eved that won't
last.
Mr. Yamamoto turned to the stu-
I.N.S.
tion in North China.
LONDON, January 4.—A sensation
North China Discussed
was caused throughout Europe today
"The realities in North China are
such." Admiral Suetsugu smid, "that 
with the publication in French and
special regime is called for. I think it
English newspapers of a declaration by
will rise soon. If I may be allowed to
Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu in the
surmise what kind of regime it will be,
Kaizo magazine warning that Japan
i: is most likely to be a government
seeks to banish the White races from
founded on the will of the people,
Asin.
something that will not be anti-Jape-
The Paris newspaper Populaire in-
nese and pro-Communist but anti-
terprets his remarks.  "a Pan-
Communist and pro-Japanese. That
Asiatic Monroe doctrine" and declares
would be more in keeping with the de-
against Communism but "against Eng-
tat they prove Japan is not fighting
sire of the Chinese people.
"It would do, I think, to apply there
land, against Europe to evict them
the kind of rigid laws that are being
imposed in Manchukuo. My guems is
from the Asiatic Continent."
British quarters are startled by the
that the sort of politics suitable to the
boldness of Admiral Suetsugu. but his
traditional manners and customs of the
Chinese as they have always been will
statements are not taken as represent-
be practised under the new regime. La
ing the views of the Japanese Govern-
a word, what is most important is that
ment.
past maladministration, with all its evils
Pittman Comments
of exploitation and oppression, be ell-
minated. If that can be achieved, there
I.N.S.
WASHINGTON, January 4.—Com-
will be no need for artificial or foreed
menting on Admiral Nobumara Sue-
endeavors, for the cireumstances are
tsugu's declarations in the Kaizo ma-
ripe for good government.
gazine, Senator Key Pittman, chairman
"Then South Chine, es well as Nert
of the foreign relations committee of
the Senate, had the following to say:
"His warlike utterances are no sur-
prise. Nothing but firmness on the
part of the United States and other
governments, aecompanied by imme-
diate steps far reastance, will have
any effect in preventing the terrihl
meneral conflagratien which Admtral
Sustsugu prediets."
enment, wt

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.98)
8797
pose their own Faecist forms of gevern-
ment on otber Powers.
"I don't think Japan has aay intem-
tion of imposing its bwn form of gov-
ernment on other countries," sald Ad-
miral Suetsugu. "But Japan is con-
vinoed that it is its mission to establish
perpetual peace in East Asia, as set
forth in the Imperial Message, and it
is determined to eliminate all obstacles
in the way of that mission. Perpetual
peace in East Asia cannot be regard-
affairs will require every effert and
ed, however, as a task for Japan alone;
perseverance, but the day must comse,
it is the common mission of all Asia-
I am convinced, when there will be a
tic peoples.
different situation. Otherwise, East
"Friction arises because of interfer-
Asia cannot stand. These matters are
ence of one kind or another in this
not simple or easy. but it seems in-
task. Establishment of peace in East
conceivable that this large view of
Asia is not merely a matter involving
things cannot be understood by the
the national fortunes of Japan; on it
Chinese."
hinges the fall or rise of all the peo-
Mr. Yamamoto turned to the situa-
ples of Asia. Thus we cannot take the
tion in South China and asked if it is
same view of things as the White peo-
not "impossible to make Britain main-
ples, who are in the Far East to trade
tain real neutrality unles stronger
and do various other things purely from
pressure is brought to bear by Japan
the business standpoint of profit or loss.
on Canton?"
They may have a certain outlook on
"What the Chinese look to in their
things on this side of the world, and
long-term resistance scheme is British
they may be justified in it, but we can-
assistance through Hongkong, isn't it?"
not believe it is a matter of life or
Admiral Suetsugu said. "But there is
death to then. It is precisely because
also the Soviet Union.
It is such a matter to us that our way
"From the Japanese viewpoint, it
of looking at things transcends their
seems unfortunate for the Chinese that
leisurely logic. The difference in our
they are seeking to offer long-term
focuses is one of digits (millions in-
resistance to Japan on the strength of
stead of hundreds)."
outside assistance that cannot very
Mr. Yamamoto asked if he thought
well be relied on. For its own part,
Japan and China could work together
Japan cannot suffer such resistance to
continue indefinitely. Its one course,
if Japan followed the motto of libera-
therefore, is to cut it short at the
tion of the Asiatic peoples.
source. The Nanking Government's
"That is exactly what is indicated
continued boasting of long-term resis-
in the Imperial Message," Admiral Sue-
tance even after abandoning Nanking
isugu replied, "and in the statements
of Premier Konoe. The aim of Japan
still counting on British asistance. If
to the Japanese must indicate that it is
is solely co-operation with China.
When Japan, Manchukuo and China
that is so it seems to me that the root
closely co-operate politica!ly, economi-
of the evil must be extirpated. If that
leads to a clash between Japan and
cally, then only can the Far East be
Britain, it can't be helped
stabilized and peace be established in
the Orient.
Nobody Bomeßted
"China's long-term resistance against
"Whether or not this will mean ejec-
tion of the White peoples from East
Japan will do no good to peace in
Asia is a very serious problem that
East Asia, China itself or Britain i
must mark a great turn in world his-
the long run. It would be best t&
tory. From the standpoinl of world
stop it. I think the British should first
peace, unless the colored races are li-
undertake to stop such amsistance,
berated so that they can receive the
which is not likely to get anyone any-
benefits of heaven equally with the
where. That would be for the beneft
White peoples and unlems White domi-
of East Asia. I cannot believe that
nation of the world is reconstructed,
Britain is unable to understand the
the so-called justice and humanity so
simple logic of the matter."
often voiced by the White peoples will
Asked about the strength of Japan.
remain but empty invocations. Unless
Admiral Suetsugu stated:
the colored races are ress:ued from
"I. have no feirs on that sobre at
their miserable slavery under the
all. The crux of the matter seems to
be that Japan is short of materials or
yoke of the White peoples, there can
be no world peace. This is my con-
lacks cash to buy matesials abroad.
But Japan's economic strepgth js not
viction, and I am ready to proclaim it
to the world without hesitation. I am
convinced there is no other way 10
save the world. But if we try to bring
this about suddenly, there is likely to
be much bitter friction, and our aims
might be defeated instead of achieved.
strength is a matier outside my meo-
But the goal is clear, and things must
tend in that direction."
Mr. Yamamoto wished to know whe-
ther he thought the goal could be rea-
ched without first crushing Gleneral
Chiang Kai-shek's regime, the Central
Army and the Chinese Comamunist
Mr. Yam
Army.
That questden should be put to Gom

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.98)
TCommmumist Party hes not the
with the Chiang regime, but the Com-
muniets haven't a chence so long s
General Chiang keeps it intact. Per-
from home. But the armassents at
haps that is why he is trying so hard
Singapore, I itpagine, are quite strong.
Especially as it ls sunrounded by
society because of the long period of
"Communism has permeeted Chiness
British colonles, this base should be
difficult to reduce. But Hongkong is
warfare. exploitation and oppression.
It becomes infectious among people whn
a very small place and cannot with-
have been oppressed as the Ch'nes?
stand any determined siege by sub-
have. With good administration. there
marines and 'aircraft. It would be
is no need for excessive armaments
strong were China a reliable ally, but
if the people can live in peace. there
China happens to be far from that."
is no room for Communism. My sus-
Mr. Yamamoto said that when he
picion is that the Chinese Communist
was in Hongkong in November he had
Party is trying to keep the people in
been told by the Hongkong Colonial
their present extreme misery in order
Secretary. Mr. Norman Lockhart
to gain a firm hold on them, and this
Smith. that the British are just as
makes me think the masses will follow
willing to sell arms to Japan as to
gladly a savior who comes to their
China, that the matter is strictly one
rescue. If there is to be an armistice.
of business.
there will be various conditions, but
"That's where a declaration of war
is needed to put a stop to that sort
one is certain to be rationalization of
of thing." Admiral Suetsugu com-
the vast armies of China."
mented.
Mr. Yamamoto expressed the view
Asked about the bombing of Canton,
that Japan cannot withdraw its troops
he asserted it was "certainly neces-
sary." Mr. Yamamoto called attention
from Central China unless the goal of
to the relative ease with which dam-
the hostilities is attained. Admiral
age done by bombs on the Canton-
Suetsugu agreed and said:
Hankow Railway is repaired, and the
"What would happen in a place so
Admiral said:
bitterly anti-Japanese because of prot-
"In the Shanghai International Set-
racted anti-Japanese education if no
tlement, Japan would find it quite em-
troops were present to maintain peac
barrassing if Britain acted as though
and order? We shudder to think of it.
it owned the whole place. I think
Whateyer the armistice terms, Japan
perfect fairness can be obtained if a
cannot withdraw troops for the time
little care is exercised. If officials of
being. I do not know what strength
the Municipal Council are to be ap-
should be maintained, but there should
pointed, why not adopt a system of
be enough to assure peace and ordar.
Withdrawal cannot be effected until the
representation in proportion to the
number of residents? If officials of the
Maritime Customs are to be appointed,
people are guaranteed peaceful exis
why not base the number and rank
ence and political stability."
of those from any country on the
Help Must Be Prevented
volume of the country's trade?
Again Mr. Yamamoto turned to the
"It may be that we shall change our
British question, asking if England
tactics. If the Chinese continue their
would continue to support General
long-term resistance, we shall have to
Chiang.
take drastic steps. It would be much
"I cannot say," Admiral Suetsugu
quicker and more effective to destroy
stated, "but I cannot conceive that Bri.
plers instead of railway tracks.
tain would not realize that it would
Diffculties Seen
lose in the long run, for such assist-
In Mr. Yamamoto's opinion. the fall
ance would make the Chinese deter-
of Nanking was just the prelude to the
mined to fight until the bitter end, even
most difficult part of the hostilities.
if their whole territory were reduced to
The Admiral agreed.
ruins. If Britain intends to help China
"There may be more or less shooting
at even that risk, we must take steps
now and then." he said, "but I should
to prevent it from taking such a rash
think the major fighting has ended.
course. The consequences would be
War in the real sense, however, will
most unfortunate, I fear."
be seen from now on."
Pu y
Mr. Yamamoto presumed the same
Mr. Yamamoto said "a considerable
could be said of Soviet aid to China.
number of people desire (deleted)
"Yes, the Soviet are helping the Chi-
should return to Peiping and rule over
nese considerably," replied Admiral
them." Adminal Suetsugu had heard
Suetsugu. "I do not know to what
nothing of it snd thought it improbable.
extent, but I imagine it to be exten-
"Southerners :and northerners must
sive. But if the Soviets are in it in
ultimately unite, but for the time being
real earnest, they should havé atarted
northern andt southern Chinese are dif-
ferent and cannot mix well," he said.
Asked whathe thought about the
sese were in the midst of fighting the
Shanghai problams, he stated:
Chinese. That they have not done sb
"Fairness mill satisty everyone. I
seems to indicate they do not intend
think the presemt system unfair. It
to. But that doesn't mean we can re-
has been tolarated because the British
lax our vigilance. We are in fact fully
are supposed to have started things,
prepared. But still, if they wanted to
but hereaftersthat will not do. It is
äght, something should have happemd
only naturak for the strongest member
by now.
of the cosnmunity to wield the
Mr. Yamamoto voiced the opinion
strongest authbority. I think. Britain
that the Kuomintang and the Chinese
ought to consider this."
Cosmmumist Rarty have diflevent later-
Mr. Yamamete told him he thought
the Britials wgld be certain to re
8798

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
892.00 P.R./106
Dompatch #74
SEE
FOR
FROM
(Hoville
..) DATED
Jen. 86, 1920
894.002/351
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Internal political activities; change of Government:
Comment regarding resignation of Phya Phahol as Premier and
his reacceptance for the premiership and the organization of
a new council.
厦
894.
002

=== Page 630 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE00 PR121
FOR...Despatch 2735
894.002/352
FROM
) DATEDJ
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Dr. Eiichi Baba, the Home Minister, tenderea his resignation
on _ecember 13; Admiral Nobumasa Suyetsugu was appointed Home
Minister on December 15.
894.002
352

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
94.02/19.
FOR
esputcu:827
FROM
Janan
Grew
) DATED
Larch 19. 1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/35
REGARDING:
Creation or china onoie rreirs ureau under direction of
cai inet and provisional body to be called the China conomic
Inquiry commission, headed by the .re ier, co posed of members
chosen fro. Ca: inet, Cat inet's dvisory vounsel, ana financial
circles.
5
3
353

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.79)
1.19.1938.
IDo HooraDi
retarytt
I
:51
Co romll theielte by
the eslelntive uroxu snd the vorsi,1 fflee for tno
establinmont r smon: ory to ovurm Chine mfrairu, the
Japenene Jovernment deolded on areh lt to arrnte the
Cmine sconcmic ffaire Muresu under oha ireetien of tne
Cabinot.
Criginelly

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.88)
Crialnally, the Logislative Surezu proposed the es-
tabllohmout of au oraan uudar tnu  runiur to be salled the
Cabinet Chine ffalrs Bonrd and to be entruuted with polltieal.
eeonomie, snd culturel mattere relatins to cain, lnuspendent-
ly of the Forelen ofrice. Cpposinn this plan, r. Hirota mnd
the forelun Gfrice atood out ror the e at bllshment of * buroau
under the direetion of tne ainl ster for forei n  ffaira but
not Duoessmrily an intetrnl part or the orelgn wfrice, to
hamdle economic exploitation  r chine sut . thout mny suth-
ority to ceml with politioal or cultural matters, whion would
be controlled as hltherlo by the foreisn  rries.ecording
to the Jmpanese press, the inleter for Forein ffeirs in-
sisted tbat Jannn's polley to arc China was entiraly differ-
ant from that tovard  anchurin, tnmt tho politioal, oeanomie,
and suitural bcdy projeoted by the . osisl»tive Hureeu mould
possltly do soouaee f lutringise upon cbine's acverelgnty
and would henoe be dis leaslns to t ird coustrieu, mad trst.
mside from rulmtlons witn the rorero, for toencios) remsonn
alone aeainistrative aifalrs rointing to Chia shculd be
lert to she Foreist rrice.
Apparontiy unabio to resonalle t e ocnri otins polnts
of vlow between the Legislative urseu end the Ministry for
Forelgn frmirs, the Cebiust arrived ut the Oumgromime plmn
montloned ebove, maxely, to ereate tho Chimu cunomlo ffeire
Bureen whion would have no volee ln iiplosntlc mastars and
whove primolple duty would be to suporvimo tho Ho th China
Development Compeny and She Central Chine Sonabilitation
Compamy. Is ie umderstoed that there will also be set up
a

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.81)
a provisi nal body to be ealled the Chine heonomie Iuquiry
Commission, headed by the Frem er, com oned of members ohosen
from she Cabinet, the Cxbimet's  avlwory oumsel, and fimen-
oial oiroles, and s trueted wiln uxem smtion of msttere relat-
sas to eoonomic esploitation ur cmlnm.
There ay be a wubstantinl umat r truth in the raport
that r. wirotn opposed tne ost blimbmout of a politioel,
eeoncalc, wnd cu turel board to control cains sffaire on
the around that sueh a step would unnseosearlly antegonize
countrles posseued f crests rim witn chlnm ane wuld lmy
Japel  on to the aocunetin tnt t cocte intad e dofinite
infrimsement af  la s movereleaty ane scmin strative i -
trity.
bile thw rea ect oy Japen os tale's suverelgnty
ano uoniistrativo Lesrity ln wuiy a liotiwn savanoed by
the Jape Govrnmnt, toiin f hine uffnir r
an rgatlaatior xin to thsmnorurinn
freiro uresu would
uoubtedly  er lpn wiln ltn n lt tion
It en boec remnrxed by buervere i kyo tnt.
sirot e mnteruulms towrd tre sott  p of a body, cistinot
from the Jorol n -fr ce, to deul witn Chinose watters was due
to a dosire to crec t e enbitione or the milltsriats end of
the more net orallstie mombere of the abi et. lowever, it
le more lixoly thet the #in ster for Foreinn frair" Is lonth
to relisquien a power whion he has wielded firmly and in un-
willine to turn over the aireeticn of Chice af airo to a &roup
of men who might take a more moderute view t ward the Chinsse
that that ssswmed by the Fcreign ©ffioo iteelf.
1n

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.68)
-4
In thln conneeti n the opartment's attection ls in-
vited to  teioram no. lou t Fobrury I , lo, in wmien
10 wee stated thet re orts und eome both to the Britisn
beador are to mn tht lt wen r. irotn ratrer tha
dira] uetuu the hmo ile, w  the tr
lni   riint
tr
le frhiol i
rrtho
r1
ti
oo1ly ju
710
0.
Copy tobaey. akine
2
se
Eako
es
n
11

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/789
SEE
Tel #330, 7pm
894.002/
FOR
Japan
FROM
Grew
May 25, 1938
--) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
354
REGARDING: Japanese cabinet to be reconstituted with view to meeting
the wishes of those elements who feel that the Japanese
Government has not been proseouting the China conflict
with sufficient vigor. Comments 1n this regard.
354

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.89)
FE
JR
This telegram must bE
Tokyo
closely praphrased be-
forE btin comrunicated
Dated May 25, 1938
to unyont.()
REc'd 10:30 a.m.
Secrttury of srate,
ushington
7.
Cr,Arri]11,m
Crt. tatur  phing prominent JapanesE who is
a clone frit ot tht Irimt Mininter's euliEd on mE and
told me in conti  thet iht iht Cabinet is about to bE
reconstitutt! nd thi  he chn ts which arE to bE made
ill o tord metiit i hen of thosE ElEments who
feel stren 1 ht tht  nt overnment has not beEn
prostcutin:  ht Chin: conflict with sufficient vigor.
J
He i ih t KonovE would rem in in any casE, as therE
is no ene vith cufficient suprort in all the factions
to rEnlrcE him. He suggested thot Hirota would bE
rEplaced by Eneril Ugaki nd thnt thE appointment of
Hironuna, President of the Privy Council, as special
dviser to KonoyE is being concidered.
Tro. E bivE bEen trying to gEt information from
other sources on the su ject of nossiblE Cabinet changes,
and WE hoped that vhen vE dii rcoort to the Department
WE "ould huvE had in li nd suficient material for thE
making

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.90)
-2- 4330, Mav 25, 7 n.m., from Tokyo.
makin of n cstimatE. However, WE havE just hEard
that yErr
fharnoon onE of thE Editions of thE
ASAHT, ro! Iy tht best informEd puper, contninEd
an artiel. sulot ntially along thE lints of the
preceding paragrorh and thet the Edition vas suppressEd
by thE censor. This fact if truE, together with rumors
which huv. paruistEi Por some tinE that chenges arE
imrEndins n the Fortin Afraira, ar nd Navy Ministries,
lEcde u: o clitve tt the statement made by my
informant con  ins  maoouroi le Element of truth.
REpe ttd nshei for Heko.
GREW
KLP

=== Page 639 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
994.00/790
FOR.Te1 f332..8pm
894.002/
FROM .....JADen
rew
) DATEDMay26.1938
TO
NAME
1--1127
355
Following cabinet appointments made ti.is efternoon:
REGARDING:
Foreign affairs, General Ugaki; Finance and Commerce
and Industry, Seishin Ikeda; Education, General Araki.
wb
355

=== Page 640 === (confidence 0.89)
FE
JR
PLAIN
Tokyo
Dattd May 26, 1938
REc'd 7:20 a.m.
SLetur3aE
894.00
W:s.intr.
It Ian ust betn umrouneed that following cabinet
494.002
appointmenus w t his attrnoon: Foreign Affairs,
General rali: inanet une Commeret and Industry,
790
SEishin Ik la; Lluention, Cuneral Araki. Comment follows.
UREW
RR

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/ 35
894.00/792
SEE
FORTel #335, 6pm
FROM ...
Japen
Grew
) DATED..May27..1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
5
9
REGARDING:
Reconstruction of Japanese Cabinet: further information
on subject. It is rumored that Sugiyana will be
replaced. Comments on reasons for Hirota's replacement.
wb
Co
56

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
sms
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased bE-
fort being c. . unicated
Dated May 27, 1938
to anyonE. (A)
REc'd 1:05 p.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
5, ay 27, 6 p.m.
Our 333, May 26, midn' h.
OnE. TherE is Jittlt iniormation available today
to ad to cur EstimatE containEd in thE tElEgram under
rEfErencE of thE causES and purposEs of thE recon-
7
struetior of the CabinEt. TherE is gEneral agreEment
2
i. thE prEss and in privatE circlEs that thE CabinEt
is nov rEprecentativE of all positivist Elements.
wo. ThE following additional information has
bEEn obtainEd today:
(a) Although no spEcific rEfErEncE has bEen madE
by thE prEss to the forthcoming resignation of Sugiyama,
it is now an opEn sEcrEt tat hE is to bE rEplacEd,
probably by GEnEral Itasaoi, although therE is minority
opinion that somE other officer, pErhaps GEnEral Koiso,
will bE appointed. GenEral UmEzu, now VicE Minister
of

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.97)
sms
2 - No. 335, May 27, 6 p.m. from Tokyo.
of War, is Exprcted to lEavE officE with his chief and
to bE rEplacEd by GEnEral Tojo, onE of thE rEgional
garrison commanders of metropolitan Japan.
(b) WE must corrEct onE dEtail of our prEvious
EstimaE. WE had ood rEason to bEliEvE that Hirota
was a mEmber of the positivist group in the Cabinet,
and wE wErt h rE orE socwhat puzzlEd over his rEplacE
ment. WE wErt in: ormcd today by a JapanEsE diplomat
who is vEry clost to tht militarists that Hirota was
closely associ ted with Sugiyana on thE question of
prosEcution of thE China conflict, and that hE was con-
fident until a few days ago that the Sugiyama bloc in
thE army would bE ablE to rEtain control.
(c) ThErE is no warrant for assuming that Ikeda
will bE thE mouthpiEcE of big businEss although hE is
a man of acknowledged practical business Experience.
Informed circles confirm our understanding that hE has
bEcomE affiliated with thosE who favor national rEcon-
struction in social and Economic ficlds. However,
according to thE press, businEss has rEsponded favorably
to his appointment.
(d) Ugaki, who has bEen thE 1eader of an army
faction

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.96)
sms 3 - Mo. 335, May 27, 6 p.m., from Tokyo.
faction   td to th t lEd by Araki, has accepted
Jap n's Chin policy us a rond on which therE is no
return. Tht opinion prevails that hE has paved thE
way for cventuelly assuming the Premiership.
(E) WE undErstand that Gentral Itagaki has no
factional conmitments, but th't hE is both a positivist
on thE Chine conflict nd a rEconstructionist on
domestic issues.
RepEated to Shanghai for Hankow.
GREW
KLP

=== Page 645 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/796
FOR#2975
SEE
FROM
Japan
Grew
.) DATEDMay 31, 1938.
TO
NAME
1--1127
Changes within the Konoe cabinet.
894.002/ 357
REGARDING:
Reports concerning-,
FRG.
357

=== Page 646 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/802
Telegram_#438.2pm.
SEE
FOR
894.002/
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Tuly 5, 1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
358
Appointment of Shiratori as Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs not likely to materialize, because of the
unfavoraole reaction it would create in the U.. and
Great Britain.
qa
357

=== Page 647 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
94.002
359
761.94/1063
FOR.1370
SEE
FROM
U.S.S.R.
Kirk
) DATED Jun 16.193
4
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Soviet press comments upon the reorganization of
the Japanese Cabinet indioating it as a condition of internal
weakess in Japan and difficulties growing out of Japan's China
policy.
L
5

=== Page 648 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/791
FOR
Tel#333,M1dnight.
FROMJapan-
Grew
) DATEDMay 26,1938
894.002/360
TO
NAME
1-1127
Cabinet reconstruction. Significance of-, complexion
REGARDING:
of, obviously worked out with a view to uniting various
heterogenous elements.
FRG.
360

=== Page 649 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
REB
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated May 26, 1938
FEc'd 4:55 p. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
335, May 26, midnight.
Our 330, May 25, 7 p. m. and 332, May 26, 8 p. m.
OnE. Con: Ersus of opini on in' rprEts thE cabinet
rEconstruction as ccnstitutin a v etory of thosE
894.00
ElErEnts within thE cabiuct, 1Ed by thE PremiEr, who
havE beEn in fovor of purouing a morE forceful policy
with rEgard to thE warfarE in China over thosE ElEments,
lEd by Sugiyama, whosE China policy has not beer con-
sidered sufficiently forccful. It is surmised that
another "FEbruary 26 incident" was brewing and that
thE prEsEnt reconstruction was dElayEd only until thE
victory at Hsuchow permittEd a cabinet crisis to takE
placE without loss of prestig: abroad.
Two. ThE complexion of thE new cabinet has obviously
been worked out with a vicw to uniting various heterogen-
ous Elements. Ugaki, a moderatE, nevertheless commands
thE rEspect of thE Army. Ikeda, a sound and consErvativE
financier,

=== Page 650 === (confidence 0.96)
RLB
2-#333, From Tokyo, May 26,midnight
finaneier, tnjoys the rtsnte of tht business world.
Araki as Minister of Elucatior comlined with Suetsugu as
Minister of the IntErior will form a comhination satis-
factory to tht most advanced nositivists. ThE general
belief is that Itnroki will sl ortly succEEd Sugiyama,
thereby ndaing strangth to the chouvinist camp of the
militarists.
PuEt. A ther c arE to hE recondnd is the re-
lincuislertnt y Kide o Pert olio of Education to makE
roor. For Ara i. Fido r tuins Portfclio of Public HEalth.
Four. herE is no doubt whatever that thesE changes
rEflEct  public dEmand that thE so-callEd China incident
bE broult to a closE as soon as possiblE by increasingly
po:itivE and drastic mEasures but it is fElt at thE samE
timt that the appointments of Ugali and Ikeda will tend
to crEitE a at-bilizing influEncE on Janan's forEign
relations.
Five. An interesting ani possirly significant sidE
light on the overturn is that Hirota this afternoon
rEmarked to onE of my collEagues that hE was on thE
point of going to thE PrimE Minister to submit his
resignation hut that hE "did not know what it was all
about".

=== Page 651 === (confidence 0.95)
REB
3-#333, From Tokyo, May 26,midnight.
about".
Six. Ugaki's nersonal rank placed him next to
KonoyE in sEniority in thE cabinEt and it is rEportEd
that hE will act as "VicE Premier". HE is modEratE with
a following in the army vhich, although small in number,
is of substantial influfnes.
Seven. Il Ede was lor severil vears hEad of the
Mitsui inter sts and Ioter hela otfict  s Governor of
the  my of Japan. To witstnding his cducation in
the Tmitri i tt: ni lor arnceiation witn the businese
world hE is nderstcol lotterly to havE becomE sympathetic
toward "continEntal policy". In any Event hE has recentl
rEcEivEd sEveral murks of faver from thE Army. The beliE"
that hE is, bEginning of underlinE persona grata End of
undErlinE, to the Arny is supportcd by thE fact that hE
will now rEpl cE two men who wErE definitEly liberal
minded.
Ei It. ThE most dEfinitr conclusion to bE drawn
from today's reconstruction is that thE new cabinet will
bE composEd of positivists in thE prosEcution of thE
hostilities in China. In fact thE public announcEment
of

=== Page 652 === (confidence 0.98)
REB
4-/333, From Tokyo, May 26,midnight.
of thE changEs instead of ivancing tht customary reasons
of hEalth states that they werE madE "to carry on the
China incident with Ever greater vigor".
REpEatEd to Shanghai for Hankow.
GREW
EMB
RGC

=== Page 653 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..4.0O/794
FOR
#430-
FROM ....
.....GreatBritain
(Johnson
) DATEDay 281938
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002
Changes in Japanese Cabinet: local press comment on-,
REGARDING:
361
FRG.
361

=== Page 654 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/793-
To1/352, 7pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
June 3, 1938
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1127
War Ministry: appointment of General Itagaki as Minister; resig-
REGARDING:
nation of General Sugiyama.
362
FRG.
362

=== Page 655 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./125
#3020
SEE
FOR
894.002/ 363
Jepan
Grow
Jume 13, 1938
FROM
-.-) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: Policy of Japanese Cabinet with respect to Sime-Japamese
confliet: comments on changes in same.
wb
994.
o
363
2

=== Page 656 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
easons. Consequently, there wcs much discussion in the press
of e possible chenge of Government in the near future. The
most importent element in the Cabinet situation, aside from the
Premier's illness, oppeered to be ? difference of opinion that
had arisen within the Cabinet as to the militrry and politicel
courses which should be pursued by Jap: n in dunling with Chine.
According to informrtion received by the Emb:ssy, Premier Konoe
was the leader of : group which bolieved thnt it wes not cnough
for Jepan to "cease donling  ith" the Chinese Government (as
expressud in the ducloration of Jrnuory 16, 1938) nd that the
Chinese Government could be destroyed only by the most dr stic
and positive measures; and that the Minister of War was the lender
of on opposition group which held the bulief that the some results
could be more economically obtain d by continuntion of the "long
duration war" policy through crusing the economic collapse of
Chinn.*
After en illncss of nenrly 3 weeks, Premier Konou resumed
his officinl duties on pril 2l. He issued  public statcment
which was generally construed to mean that the differences of
opinion within the Cabinet had in some way been adjusted.
On the
day of his resumption of official duties the Fremier told newspaper
correspondents that unification of policies rugarding Chinn was
the koy to solution of all tho Go:ernment's problems; that the
goneral policy toward China fixed by the Government several months
before remained unchanged and would bo followed to the end; that
his absence from official duties had no political significance;
end that his return to such duties would not result in any particular
change in the Government's plans.
Nothwithstanding the statements of the Premier covering the
Government's fixed policy as announced on January 16, it appeerod
to
* Embassy's telegram No. 239 of April 11, 1938.

=== Page 657 === (confidence 0.97)
-19-
 the Embassy that the Army had mado substantial concessions to
those persons advocating the resort to more vigorous and more
extonsive mi itary operntions.* Toward the end of the month the
opinion was more fr quently and widely expressed by Japanese that
n drive to liankow was ineviteble.
Premier Konoc came in for  curt in mount of criticism from
the vernacular press. The HocHI of ipril 25 expressed disappoint-
ment at the failure of his public statement to indicate eny inten-
tion to reorgonizu the Cabinet for a more successful conduct of
the hostilities in China. The CHlGiI of April 23 asserted that
Japan's present policy towards China was slipshod and lacking in
unity and that it wns Premiur Konoe's duty to romedy this situation.
The NICHI NICHI of April 23 remcrked thot the Promiership was e
very "busy position", thnt nobody without  robust physical consti-
tution could stand the cutius of Premior very long, nd that the
Premier's constitution was not believed to be exceptionslly strong.

=== Page 658 === (confidence 0.90)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.94.0QR.R/126
FOR3089
FROM ...Jadan
(..Gr
) DATEDJ..18.138
894.002/364
TO
NAME
1-1127
Changes in Jepanese Cabinet: report coneerning same.
REGARDING:
wb
1894.002
半

=== Page 659 === (confidence 0.98)
Cabinet.
It was announced on May 26 that General Kazushige Ue
had been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs in succes
to Mr. Hirota; Mr. Seishin Ikeda, Minister for Finance ar
Minister for Commerce and Industry in succession, respect
to Mr. Kaya and Mr. Yoshino; and General Sadao Araki, Mi
Educetion in succession to Marquis Kido, who now retains
ortfolio of Welfare Minister.*
The consonsus of opinio
C
Embessy's telegrams Nos. 330, May 25, and No. 332, May

=== Page 660 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
ompetent observers interpretcd theso cabinet changes as constitut-
ing a victory of those elements within the Cabinot, lod by Premier
Konoe, who hnd been in favor of pursuing a more forccful policy
with regard to the warfare in Chine, over other cloments, led by
General Sugiyann, the War Minister, whose China policy had not been
considered sufficiently forceful. Varicus heterogeneous elements
therefore went into the composition of the recenstructed Cabinet:
General Ugaki, a noderate who nevortholess commanded the respect
of the Army; Mr. Ikeda, e sound and conservative financier, who
enjoyed the respect of the business world; nnd Goneral Areki, who
with Admiral Suetsugu as Home Minister, would forn a combination
satisfactory to the most erdent chauvinists.*
Toward the end of the month it was an open secret that
General Sugiyama vould resign as Wer Minister, and the general
belief was thet Goneral Itagaki, the lending officer of the Kwantung
army and ono of the four most inportant prompters of the Manchurinn
coup in 193l, would bo ppointed to succeed Gonerel Sugiyama, there-
by ndding strength to the cheuvinist campt of the militarists. On
May 31 General Tojo was appointed Vice-Minister for War in placc of
Genernl Umezu.
The KOBE SHDBUN reported that at a Cabinet neeting on May 31
General Ugaki, the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, had asked the
War and Navy Ministers to push their military operations vigorously
in China, and not to "trouble their heads" about the possible cffects
of nilitary action on the country's diplomatic reletions with tho
Powers. General Ugaki is said to have duclarod hiuself confident
of his ability to deel with all diplomatic issues which might arise,
for the settlement of which ho would be entirely responsible.
In e charnoteristicnlly vague fashion, Genoral Araki, the new
Education
Embassy's tolegram No. 333, May 26, 1938 and Embassy's despatch
No. 2975, May 31, 1938.

=== Page 661 === (confidence 0.96)
-28-
Education Minister, was snic by the ASiHI of May 31 to have out-
lined his policy cs fellows: "1. The Great Way of the Empire
should be m losted in accordance with the notionnl pelicy, and
the presperity of the I porial Threne should be guarded and main-
tained. 2. The principle cf the oneness of knowledge and conduct
should be upheld, and ecucation shsulc be cevoted t perfucting
cheracter. 3. Efforts sliculd bu mice to train the peuple to act
in a manner befitting a great n'tion and to do thcir best to over-
come the difficulti us thet may arise in the future by acting in
accordance with th, c rrect ccncuption of the current situation".
According te the vern cular pross, in reconstructing the
Cabinet Premier Konou asko& Au iral Suet sugu to take the post of
Welfare Minister in place of Marquis Kide, who was to be made Home
Minister, but Adiral Suctsugu refused to accept the post cffered.

=== Page 662 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00.P.R./127
FOR#3094
SEE
FROM ...Japan
(...) DATED
July 7.1958
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/ 365
Assumption of office by new Ministers of War; Overseas Ministry.
REGARDING:
Press statement of Premier Konoe emphasizing importanoe of cur-
rent ministrial conferences. Statement by new Education Minis-
ter.
FRG.

=== Page 663 === (confidence 0.98)
INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION
(a) The Cabinet.
As appeared likely in May, Generel Itcgeki was appointed
Minister for War in succossion to Guneral Sugiyama, the appointment
894.002
being announced on June 3.*
Mr. Sonyu Otani resigned as Overseas Minister on June 25 to
beceme prosident of the pr jected Nerth China Developrent Company
and his cuties were taken over c ncurrently by the Minister for
Fereien Affairs, Goneral Ueaki.
The first of u series of five-Llinister conferences for unifica-
tion of national policies was hel in the Prunier's fficial
resicence on June 17, the five-Ministers c nsistin of the Prenier
and the Ministers for War, Navy, Foreign Affairs, and Finance.
The JAPAN TIMES of June 18 stated that the question of ndjusting
the supply of wer naterials in corrolati n to the needs of the
people was one of the i.rertant suhjects taken up at the cenference.
In his first interview with prees c.rrespendents since the recon-
struction of his Cabinet, Pre iur K.nee stete? (n June 22 that
because of the new situation br u ht about by the pregress of
military operations in Chine it wculd be necessary for the Govern-
ment to edopt new imrortant rieasures besides those decided upon at
the Imperial Conference on Junuary 11, 1938, and that when theso
moasures
x
Frbassy's monthly report for May, Section III (a), and telecran
No. 352, June 3, 1938.

=== Page 664 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
measures were formulated as a result of the five-Minister confer-
ences the Governnment night ask the Throne for ancther Inperial
Conference.
General Araki, the new Educatien Minister, stated on June 15
in an interview with e representative of the JAPAN ADVERTISER that
"pacific internationalism", the fundenental principal of Japanese
national policy, must serve as the guidine ideal behind the
education of Japan's future generations and that he had no intention
of following a policy of "isolationism, militarisn, or spartanism
in the restricted sense". General Araki asserted that Japan of
today was no longer "Jepan of the East" but "Japan of the world",
in other words, a nation with a far wider range of purposes to ful-
fil toward the goal of wcrld stabilization.

=== Page 665 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/814
SEE
FOR
Telegram #635
8.p.m.
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Sept..29..1938.
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs has submitted
his resignation, possibly because of the difficulty
between Foreign Office and the army over the insistence
of the former that the China board be placed under
366
effective jurisdiction of Minister for Foreign Affairs.
aa
366

=== Page 666 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/815
Telegram "636, noon.
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Sept. 30, 1938.
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/367
REGARDING:
Resignation of Ugaki, Minister for Foreign Affairs,
accepted: Prime Minister to assume duties temporarily.
Sato and Arita, advisers to Ugaki, heve Iso resigned.
sa
6we

=== Page 667 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
EG
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated SEptember 30, 1938
REctd 1:40 a.m.
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
HTe
636, SEptErbEr 30, noon.
Our 635, SEptE bEr 29, 8 P....
OnE. Decision was talkEn last night that
Ugaki's resign tion bE accepted and that thE PrimE
Minister assu E concurrently for thE timE being the
portfolio of ForEign Affairs nd also of OvErsEas
Affnirs. KonoyE's investiturE in thesE twc
offices will occur this morning.
Two. Sato and Arita, both foruer ministers
for Foreign Affoirs, who wErE recently appointed
advisers to Ug ki, havE also rtsigned.
ThreE. With thE rEnoval last night of thE
press censorship sonE light is now being thrown
on yEsterday's developnents which vErE totally un-
ExpEctEd. A dEtailEd account f thE discussions of
9
thE various plans vith rEgard to thE projected China
15
organ will go forvard by pouch, but briefly stated
thE army insisted thet thE China organ should bE an
indefinitE

=== Page 668 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #636, SEptEmbEr 30, noon, from Tokyo
indefinitE agency, vested witr authority not only
to formulatE policies vis-a-vis China but vir-
tually to administer all parts of China under
JapanesE military occupation. Ugaki adopted at
thE outsEt thE position of thE sEnior officials
of thE Foreign OfficE, namEl: that thE creation
of an agEncy with such nowers and having ExistencE
outsidE thE jurisdiction of thE Minister for ForEign
Affairs would not orly bE unconstitutional but would
rendEr impossiblE thE conduct of pEacEful rElations
with countries having ri,hts and interests in China.
HE insisted therEforE that thE pronosel functions of
thE organ bE radically modified and that thE organ
bE brought within thE organization of thE Foreign
OfficE. An official in thE ForEign OfficE informs
us that yesterday morning Ugaki, after a protracted
discussion with his sEnior subordinates of a nEw
compromisE plan, indicated that hE would bring thE
mattEr to a hEad at thE conferencE of fivE ministers
to bE hEld during thE afternoon. It appEars that at
thE conferencE hE ExprEssEd flat opposition to thE
wholE projEct, and then prEsEntEd his rEsignation to
the PrimE Minister.
Four.

=== Page 669 === (confidence 0.97)
-3- #636, SEptembEr 30, noon, from Tokyo
Four. ThE press this morning roundly condEmns
Ugaki for divers reasons, but all thE papers agreE
that, following thE reorganizatior of thE cabinet in
JunE, thE nEed for political stability and unity at
homE transcended all other considErations.
FivE. Our provisional comnent is that thE basic
causE for this crisis in thE cabinet is thE cleavagE
of oninion among JapanEsE lEadErs, manifEstEd in thE
rEsignation of Hirota and CenEral Sugiyama from thE
cabinEt, over thE question of what shall bE donE with
China. ThE declaration of January 16, that Japan has
"cEasEd to dEal with thE nationalist governmEnt",
likE Banquo's ghost continues to harrass thE Ex-
tremists.
RepEated to PEiping and Chungking.
GREV
CA:HRE

=== Page 670 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/819
FOR
#3300
SEE
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Oct 4. 1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/368
The China Board (Tai Shi In): proposal for the establishment of-,
REGARDING:
believed cause of Ugaki's resignation. Comments on the con-
ferences of the five ministers and the likelihood of board
operating within the structure of the Cabinet. Prince Konoe's
views on developments.
FRG.
368

=== Page 671 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./130
FOR#3308-
SEE
894.002
FROM
Japan
Grew
Qct.Q.1938
TO
NAME
1-1187
3
Konoe Cabinet: Proposed formation of a political institution
REGARDING:
or central organ,for the development, control and execution of 9
all Sino-Japanese affairs, resulting in resignation of Foreign 6
Minister Ugaki. Lack of conciliation and cooperation in cab-
inet condemned by press.
FRG.

=== Page 672 === (confidence 0.99)
The debate on the formulation of plans for the establishment
of a political institution or central organ for the development,
control, and execution of all affairs involving Japan and C hina has
been the most upsetting influence in the Cabinet since its forma-
tion under Premier Konoe. To the difference of opinions over this
major questicn has been attributed the resignation of former Foreign
Minister Koki Hirota and the reorganication ef the Cabinet in the
spring of this year. At least a dozen different times during the
month of September there wore headlines in the pruss concerning
compromises, revisions, and deadlocks in the controversy. This
was climaxed suddenly and untiruly unexpectedly by the resignation
of Foreign Minister Ugnki on the t wenty-ninth of Septcmber.
The
* Embassy's telegram No. 611, September 20, 1938.

=== Page 673 === (confidence 0.97)
-2o
The original plen, according to the ASAHI, was for a board to
take over the control of the administration of China affairs gn-
erally, economic, financi:l, cultural, diplomatic, etc., ard tu?
supervision  the North China Dev lopment Compary cnd th, Cuntiel
China Promotion Compony in ddition to nanaling all matters relatin
to Japan's policy towards China.
Although completely uthoritative inform tion is un v iloble
it is believed that the Foreign Minister's objections, in addition
to being based on lug l or constitutional grounde, was th t a board
or political institute of such scope was unnecussary at the present
time end particularly was unnecessary as  purmanent addition to
Japan's political structurc. It is obvious also that such un in-
stitution would preempt many of the prerogatives of the Foreign
Office in the conduct of relations between Japan end Chinn and
between Japan and third Powers with interests in China. Immediate-
1y prior to the Foreign Minister's resignation, however, it was
stated in the press that subordinates of the various Ministries
had been successful in reaching a compromise which was to be ap-
proved the following day.
The vernacular press was practically unanimous in its expres-
sion of regret nnd disappointment for General Ugaki's resignation and
there was considerable censure of his action taken at a time when
unity in political affairs is most urgently desired. The TOkYo
NICHI NICHI went so far as to point to the inspiring example of the
statemanship and spirit of conciliation and cooperation evidenced
by the European Powers in their recent crisis, as an example, em-
phasizing the contrast showing a lack of conciliation and coopera-
tion in the Konoe Cabinet as evidenced by the resignation of Foreign
Minister Kazushige Ugaki.
(b)

=== Page 674 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/818
#3320-
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Oct 7,1938,
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002
Resignation of Foreign Minister Ugaki, apparently, due to
REGARDING:
his opposition to proposed establishment of the China
Board (Tai Shi In). Comments on improbability of finding
an acceptable member of foreign service willing to accept
the portfolio before the board becomes an accomplished fact.
370
FRG.

=== Page 675 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/820
Telegram #691, 1 pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
)
DATED
Oct. 29, 1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/371
REGARDING:
Appointments to Japanese Cabinet: Hachiro Arita as
Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Yoshiaki natta as
inister for Overseas Affairs.
aa

=== Page 676 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
394.00/821
FOR
Memorandua
894.002/
State Depertment
FROM
Far Eastern Division
Schuler
DATED
Oct. 29. 1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
372
Appointment of Hachiro rita as inister for Foreien
Affairs: Comnents concerning-.

=== Page 677 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
701.9475/3
SEE
FOR._.#743
894.002/
FROM
Albania
Hughes
DATED
Oct.12.1938
Boxxx
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Toshio Shiratori, until r:ce: tly assi ned to the Foreign
Ministry in Tokyo has been appointed Minister toTirana
373
and Ambassador to Rome.
MCO
12

=== Page 678 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
896.00/882
Despatoh #3592
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grow
Nov. 1, 1938.
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002
Appointment of Hachiro Arita as Minister for Foreign Affairs:
REGARDING:
Report concerning -.
aa
/374

=== Page 679 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/
SEE......824.00..PR/131
FOR.......Doapatch.#3424
FROM .....Lapan
(...Gro.
Nox...16.1938/
375
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Japanese Cabinet: Report concerning appointments
of new officers as Foreign Minister, Ambassador
to U.9, and Minister of Overseas Affairs.
aa
375

=== Page 680 === (confidence 0.99)
(a) Tuo Cubinut.
Following the resignation of fcrmor Foreign Mixister Ugaki
894.002
in the latter part of September, there wes considerable specula-
ticn as to who would be named as his successor until the decision
of the Prime Minister to keep the office of Foreign Minister for
himself and nct to appoint a succussor t. former Minister Ugaki
was ann unced in the press n Oct bur 6. At the same time the
appointment of Vice Minister Kensuke Horinouchi as Ambassador to
Washington and the selection ef Mi. Renc Sawada to succeed as
Vice Minister were announced. On Cctober 29 with the appointment
of Mr. Hachiro Arita to the Foreign Office and of Mr. Yoshiaki
Hata to the Ministry of Cverseas Affairs, Prime Minister Konoe
relinquished the two additional portfolios which he had held
concurrently since the resignation of General Ugaki last month.
The selection of Mr. Arita as Foreign Minister gave no direct
information on the question whether there was to be any change
in the policy of Japan toward the Nestern Powers,** Mr. Arita's
ceptance of the portfolio would seem to inuicate that he supports
fully the Japanese "immutable" policy as regards China and it
is to be expected that he will press the various nations to
recognize the "new situation in the Far East." Mr. Arita's par-
ticipation in the Cabinet does not restore the prestige lost
through former Minister Ugaki's resignation, but it does relieve
the Premier of some of his extra duties. The official statement
of the Government which was to be issued on November 3, it was
hoped, would throw further light on the future policy of Japan
in its relations with the various Powers.

=== Page 681 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/858
Tel/9; 10pm
SEE
FOR
894.002
Japan
Grew
Jan 5, 1939
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Present political changes in Japan.
Baron Hiranuma installed as Prime Minister; Prince Konoye, ap-
376
pointed President of Privy Council, joins Cabinet as Minister
without portfolio. Former members of the "inner-Cabinet", with
exception of Ikeda, remain in office. Detailed report of Cab-
inet changes to be telegraphed upon receipt of official an-
nouncement.
FRG.
25

=== Page 682 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
JR
GRAY
Tokyo
NOTE
DatEl Junuary , 1929
Ric d 1:10 p.m.
Steret ry of State,
chington.
9, January 5, 10 p.m.
Cur (, Januiry 1,  p.m.
894.
OnE. It h s ju t bEEn announced over thE radio
that Faron Hiranuma s this Evening installed is PrimE
0
Minister, und thit PrincE Konoye, who was appointed
0
Presidtni of uhe Privy Couneil  cuccEssor to Hiranuma,
832
will join tht Cabinet s Minister vithout portfolio.
ThE former members of thE "inner-Cabinet" which wus
composed of Arita, Itagaki, Yonai, Iked: and KonoyE
remain in officE with thE ExcEption of IkEda who h.s
resigned.
Two. A dEtailed report of thE cabinet changes
will bE tElEgraphed as soon as of icial announcement
is available.
GRE
DDM:RGC

=== Page 683 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/833
To1 #14; 6pm
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Jan 6, 1959
FROM
-.) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.002/
Resignation of Konoye Cabinet; installation of new officers.
REGARDING:
Names of replacements; statement of cabinet; reaction of press,
discounting cries of "crises"; direction of new Prime Minister's
thought erpressed in one of his statements of last night.
377
FRG.
37

=== Page 684 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00/886
FOR._....Te1-815:..7pm
FROM... Ja.
(.) DATEDDR9)
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.002/378
Political situation.
REGARDING:
Mueh activity emong politically important with keying up of
political atmosphere. Various rumors are current on the
resignation and replacement of Prime Minister; reorganisation
of Cabinet; contacting of Wang Ching Wei and formulation of
definite peace proposal. Comments in premises.
FRG.
397

=== Page 685 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/828
Telegram # 4, noon
SEE
FOR
Japan
894.002/379
FROM
Grew
...) DATED.
Jan. 4. 1939
TO
NAME
1-117
REGARDING:
Entire Japanese Cabinet resigned this morning.
ay
3E2

=== Page 686 === (confidence 0.92)
EDA
GRAY
TOKYO
DatEd January 4, 1939
REcEivEd 5:10 a.m.
SEcrEtury of StarE
No7
Washinrton
894.002
RUSH.
4, Jmuury 4, noer..
Embassy's 813, DEcErber , 7 P.m.
ThE Entire Cahinet resigned this mcrning.
GREN
RR
894.00
8
28

=== Page 687 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/829
Telegram / 5, 3 p.m.
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Jan. 4, 1939
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Appointments to fill vacancies in the Japanese
Cabinet, created by resignation of the entire
Cebinet: Newspaper reports pos ibitities of
380
of certain appointments.
aa
380

=== Page 688 === (confidence 0.93)
EDA
GRAY
TOKYO
roti
Dated January 4, 1939
RecEived 5:18 a.m.
894.002
SECrEtry of StaTE
Taslinet n
5, mury 4,  pom
Emrassy s 4, January 4, noon.
Newep-pers rEpert thnt thE following mentErs of the
KonoE Caninet will Enter thE new governnent:
Wur Minister Itagaki, Minister of JusticE Shiono,
VElfarE inister Marquis Kido (it is rEportEd thet onE of
thE last twe will bEcomE HomE Minister); that thE fcllow-
ing will definitEly net (repEat not) Enter thE nExt Cabi-
net: HomE Minister SuyEtsugu, Minister of FinancE and
CommercE Ikeda, Minister of Forestry and AgriculturE
Arima, Minister cf Communications Nagai, Railway Minister
Nakashima; that thE futurE position of thE following has
8
not bEen dEcidEd: Minister for ForEign Affairs Arita,
2
Navy Minister Yonai, Minister of Education Araki, Minister
6
of CversEns Affairs Hatta; that if Furon Hiranuma is sE-
lEctEd as thE nExt PrEmiEr, PrincE KonoE will succEEd him
as PrEsident of thE Privy Council; and that Yuasa, Lord
KEEpEr of thE Privy SEal, has gonE to PrincE Saonji to
obtain his approval of Hiranuma as thE nEw PrEmier.
GREN
RR

=== Page 689 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/830
Telegram # 6, 5 p.m.
SEE
FOR
894.002/ 381
Japan
Grew
Jan. 4, 1939.
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Changes in Japanese cabinet: Announcements issued
by Konoye, concerning-, who stated that public
confidence would be stimulated by a change in
government. Further information to be telegraphed
as soon as it is available.
aa

=== Page 690 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
JR
GRAY & SPECIAL GRAY
Tokyo
note
DatEd January 4, 1939
894.002
REc1d 5:54 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Vashinrt on.
6, January 4, 5 p.m.
Our 5, anuary 4,  rn.
OnE. ThE only authoritative indicstion thus fur
given out of thE reason for the present :clitical
changE may bE found in an ambigucus announetmEnt issued
at noon today by KonoyE, tht mort important portions
of which havt already betn cablel by Amtrican correspondents.
18
HE referred to thE fact that ht hut renained in ofricE
until the completion of major hostilitits with China,
and that, with the bEginning :f the sEcond sta"E of thE
conflict (***) political reconstruction of Japen and of
China (***) hE fElt that public confidencE would bE
8
stimulated by a changE in Government.
Two. A considered assessment o? thE reasons for the
0
changE will bE tElEgraphEd as soon as thEy havE bEcomE
clear. In thE meantimE, thE practically certain appointment
of Hiranuma as FrimE Minister, vhen considered in thE
light of KonoyE's referencE to a projectcd political
reconstruction of Japan, strongly suggests that KonoyE
has

=== Page 691 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- #6, January 4, 5 p.m., from Tokyo.
has bEEn unablE to stEm thE tidE toward a morE
authoritarian form of government, ont of thE lEading
proponents of which is Hiranuma.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 692 === (confidence 0.96)
1v
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/851
Memorandum
SEE
FOR
State Department
Far Eastern Division
894.002/
FROM
Ballantine
DATED
Jan 4a.1959
TO
NAME
1-1187
Resignation of the Konoye Cabinet.
REGARDING:
Significance of-,
382
FRG.

=== Page 693 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 894.00/834
FOR Tolegram 1 16. 3 p.m.
China (Chungking)
FROM
(..Padk.
) DATED.Jan..6..19.
894.002/
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Resignation of the Konoye Cabinet discussed by
the Chungking Chinese Press on Jan. 5, interpreting
38
it as a sign of growing Japanese weakness. Comments
concerning-.
3
aa
3

=== Page 694 === (confidence 0.94)
FF.
EG
PLAIN AND GRAY
CHUNGKING VIA N. R.
Dated January 6, 1939
REc! 7:10 a.m. Jan. 7th
Seeretury of Stult,
Washinrton.
16, January 6, 3 n.m.
The rtsignat ion of the KonoyE Cabinet was discussEd
at length in thE Chun king ChinEsE press on January 5.
In Eneral thE press interpreted it as a sign of growing
JapanEsE wEakness in thE facE of Expanding internal and
ExtErn 1 difficultiEs but WarnEd thE ChinEsE pEcplE to
bE prEpared fer thE formation of a (GRAY) merE rEaction-
ary CabinEt which will accelEratE JapanesE activities on
thE continEnt. (END GRAY)
ThE CEHTRAL DAILY HEIS obsErvEd "ThE brEakdown of
thE KonoyE CabinEt is a preludE to a gEnEral collapsE
of thE JapanEsE militarist" and dEclarEd "WE should an-
ticipatE thE last mad act of thE JapanEsE militarists
and should preparE ourselves for thE most ruthless on-
7
slaught in thE last stagE of thE war".
5
ThE TA KUNG PAO commEntEd that thE downfall of thE
KonoyE CabinEt is attributablε to thε triumph of mili-
tarism over liberalism in Japan and signifiEs a revival
of

=== Page 695 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #16, January 6, 3 p.m. from Chungking via N. R.
of thE Shogunate oystem in a further Effort on thE part
of the JapanEsE militarists to ExtricatE themsElves from
their present dilemma. This journal adds that the fall
of KonoyE completely nullifies any Effect that Wang Ching
YEi's peacE proposal might havE produced.
ThE SAO TA G PASO drEw thE conclusion that thE in
ternal strugglE between thE JapanesE militarists and
financiErs not only brought about thE collapsE of thE
KonoyE Cubinet but mi hi causE an internal uprising.
This journal predicted that the Hiranuna Cubinet would
in all probability launch a more vigorous campaign in
China, adopt a strong attitudE towards Russia and try
to concludE a GErman-Italian-JapanEsE military alliance,
a policy which could but result in closer cooperation
among thE dEmocraciEs and an Eventual showdown bEtwEEn
thE JapanEsE military and financial groups.
Repeated to PEiping for mailing to Tokyo.
PECK
RR:CSB

=== Page 696 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/835
Telegram l2.3 D.m.
SEE
FOR
FROM
U.S.S.R.
) DATED.Jan...1939.
894.002/ 384
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Resignation of Konoye Cabinet:
No conspicuous editorial comment in
the Soviet Press, regarding-. Summary
of article published in PRAVDA, entitled
"The new Governnent in Japan".
aa
加

=== Page 697 === (confidence 0.95)
EE
JR
GRAY
Moscow
DatEd January :, 1939
REc d 11:02 a.m.
SFcrErary of StatE,
Washington.
12, January 9, 3 n.m.
Although tht Soviet prtse has carrid news items
regarding thE Cabinet changE in Janan which havE cmphasized
the growing difficultics of thE JapanEsE GovErnment as wEll
as onE Editorial on January 5 dEvoted to a : Eneral survEy
894.
of international conditions which indicated thE increasing
wEaknEss of Japan, no conspicuous Editorial commEnt on thE
Cabinet changE has as yEt comE to the Embassy's attention.
0
PRAVDA today publishEs under a Washington datE linE
0
a signEd articlE EntitlEd "thE nEw CovErnmEnt in Japan"
by Kerli of which thε following is a summary.
3
OnE of thE most important reasons for thE Government
9
crisis in Japan was thE failurE of KonoyE's China
nolicy thE continuation of which has led to the international
isolation of Japan and to a financial crisis in that country
sincE Berlin and RomE arE not in a position to givE it
financial support. Dissatisfaction is growing in Japan
with the military adventurE in China and serious differences
of opinion arE apnEaring Even in thE governing groups
which

=== Page 698 === (confidence 0.98)
EDA - 2 - #12, Jaruary 9, 3 p.m. f rom Mosco
which havE lEd dirEctly to thE fall of thE KonoyE
CabinEt. ThE choicE of Hironuma to succEEd KonoyE,
which is not accidental, was duE to his Espousal of
Fascism and thE influEncE on him of Araki and other
Fascist Extremists. His appointment represents a
nEw victory for the Fascist military which is drawing
nEarEr and nEarer to its purposE of bEcoming thE solE
political rEprEsEntativE of thE bloc of financial capital,
land ownErship and burocracy of thE nobility. "ThE
Kironuma CabinEt signifiEs thE continuancE of thE war
in China and thε intEnsification of aggression in
Eastern Asia and on thE Pacific thE futurE Fascization
of thE country and thE stifIing. of thE constantly
growing anti-war movement. HowEver, thE nEw Government
will bE confronted by thE samE insolublE problems on
which its predecessor brokE its teeth."
KIRK
HPD

=== Page 699 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00 P.Ra/153
#3615
FOR
894.002/ 385
FROM Japan
(.....Grow.
.) DATED ..
.Jan..17.1950
TO
NAME
1-1197
Japenese cabinet: developments, in sumary, for the month of
REGARDING:
Deo., 1938.
FRG.

=== Page 700 === (confidence 0.91)
-13-
(b) The Cnbinct.
Accooding T newspeper rort published in the KokUMIN
on December 19 the co m'ss Por "reorganization of
the Natic' were beineu
ntun and it was
expected that the st eted orroattion
would be held b! . I.I.
of next year. Tn iw  u u oelopments.   sic
cant to note that t c iele t to that the Ponhe Ministor
was exercising extrune e ution in his selcction of directors
for the movement bect use " ther  vurament officials ere disin-
clined to leave the  tter etirely in his h nds."
On November 27 the JAPi ADVERTISER published an article,
largely taken fron tle orici ed porin in the NIcnI ICHI
a day or so before, to tu  Pt ut sat th plon to ruerrenize
the nation was t e r  riti on  sr e nd
that the Cabiut  ws d vidd cn the issue. 
opposed by the   c use it was believed to be atir ly
inadequete. The Mirseito nd Suiyukai as well   t
minor political perties onpoced uhe plen for the te sen te t they
foresaw eventual liquidction of political parties in Jonn if
this plan were successfully carried out. It was als stated that
the Home Minister Nobunase Suetsugu who had been ertrusted with
the drafting of the final details had lost his creinel nthusiasm
and that cven Prenier Konoye was not cntirely satictied with the
plan. On the 27th Decomber the Cabinet at its reguler meeting
decided to postponc the plan until next year.
The end of December wa: marked by considerable activity
in high political circles in Japan cnd it was stated that Prince
Konoye was studying means for the "strengthening of his C-binet.""
Vorious
*Eabassy's telegroun No. S13, December 29, 1938,

=== Page 701 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
Verious rumors were current in Tokyo at the time to the effect
that Prince Konoye was to be replaced by General Minami or
Baron Hirar uma or Murguis Kido, Beron Hiranuma played an
important part in the meny pol'vical conferences which were held
in the lost few deys of Deccmb.r.
A lc political editorial aopearing in the NICHI NICHI
on December 29 indicated thrt this politicrl crisis wes brought
on principelly by two factors: (1) the unusual situation in
which co-incident with the hostilitics in China efforts are
being made for the reconstruction and development of that country
which necessitates a long period of "spiritual tension and
patience on the part of the people" of Japan, end (2) the failure
of the "one party for one netion" and national reconstruction
movements. It was obvious thet some noliticel developments of
great importance would probably appear early in January.

=== Page 702 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/844
Despatch # 3600
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Jan. 13, 1939.
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.002/ 386
REGARDING:
Japanese Cabinet change, listing new Cabinet Members,
installed Jan. 5, 1939: Information concerning-
aa

=== Page 703 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/842
#2020
SEE
FOR
U.S.S.R.
Kirk
Jan 18. 1939
FROM
DATED
894.002/ 387
TO
NAME
1-1127
Change of Cabinet in Japan.
REGARDING:
Soviet press comment on-,
Encloses translations of articles.
FRG.

=== Page 704 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.0021
894.00 P.R./134
#3656
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grow
-) DATED
7ob 10, 1959
TO
NAME
1-1187
388
REGARDiNG: Resignation of Cabinet of Prinee Fumimaro Konoye; installation of
Cabinet under the premiership of Baron Kiichiro Hiramuma, Jan
4 and 5, respectively; make up of new cabinet.
FRG.

=== Page 705 === (confidence 1.00)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
The Cabinet of which Frince Fumimaro Konoye was Premier
resigned on January 4 and on January 5 a Cabinet under the
premiership of Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma was installed.
With the principal exceptions of Mr. Ikeda, who held con-
currently the office f Minicter of Finance and Minister
of Commerce, and Admiral Suetsugu, who held the office
of Home Minister, the outstanding fi, ures of the Konoye
Cabinet were carried over into the new one. These were:
Marquis Kido, General Itagaki, Admiral Yonai, Mr. rita,
General Araki, and Mr. Shiono. Prince Konoye himself was
designated Minister without Portfolio in the Hiranuma Cabinet
while at the same time he became Baron Hiranuma's successor
as President of the Privy Council. The new Cabinet installed
on January 5 was made up as follows:
Prime Minister
Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma
Minister without Portfolio
Prince Fumimaro Konoye
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Mr. Hacliro Arita
Minister of War
Lt. Gen. Seishiro Itagaki
Navy Minister
Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai
Minister of Finance
Mr. Sotaro Ishiwata
Minister of Comnerce and
Mr. Yoshiaki Hatta
Industry.
Minister of Home Affairs
Marquis Koichi Kido
Minister of Justice
Mr. Suehiko Shiōno
Minister of Communications
Mr. Suehiko Shiono
Minister of Railways
Mr. Yonezo Maeda
Minister of Agriculture and
Mr. Yukio Sakurauchi
Forestry
Minister of Education
General Baron Sadao Araki
Minister of Overseas Affairs
Mr. Yoshiaki Hatta
Welfare Minister
Mr. Hisatada Hirose
The Cabinet change was effected without specific public
knowledge of the causes that brought such change about and
Prince Konoye, as is customary, merely explained his resig-
nation in vague generelities. However, a careful study of
the political situation prior to and following the change in-
dicates

=== Page 706 === (confidence 0.95)
-一
dicates that it may be attributed tc the followins rrincip!
causes: A cleavage is believed to have arisen in the Crire
because of insistence of nome Ninister Suetsugu for measur.
to be ad nted for the "organizetion of the nation" through
strict regimentatiun. These me sures were subjected to
debate in the Cubinet it elr,  y come to the ut
the leaders in the Liet whe rerented them, und troutle theau
for the Government became evident. Sueh a situation eave
the Prime Minister the opportunity tc resign, which oppor-
tunity he hud been de irirs fur some time. Added to this
there was a growing feeling in Jupan that a change in leader-
ship was required in the Government to give a "lift" to popu-
lar enthusiasm in order to meet the task confronting the
nation. The country hed gone thr ugh a long strain during
the hostilities in hina and there had set in a let-down
in the feeling end  ttitude of the publie. With the eonclusion
of whot was tormed rositi nal militory operations nd the in-
augur tion cf the -called reconstruction st: ge at home and
on the continent it was felt that a fresh leader was required.*

=== Page 707 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 894.00/853
#3815
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
--) DATED
April 11, 1939
TO
NAME
1-1127
68
4.00
Full-time Minister for Overseas Affairs and Minister of Communi-
REGARDING:
cations.
Appointments of-, General Kuniaki Koiso, retired, to former
2
office; Mr Harumichi Tanabe, to latter.
Reporting concerning
comments in premises.
3
8
6
C
FRG.
389

=== Page 708 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Cabinet: appointment of full-time Minister for Overseas Af-
fairs and Minister of Communications; proposed reorsanisa-
tion of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
894.002/390
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See8012
(Despatoh, telegram, imstractiom, letter, eto.)
Dated
May 24, 1939
From
Japan (Dooman)
To
File No.
894.00 P.R./157
FRG.

=== Page 709 === (confidence 0.92)
AII. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Ccbinet.
Appointment of full-time Minister for
Overscas Affairs ond Minister of Communications
OOF
031
00
On April 7 Generol Kuminki Koiso, rotired, was invosted as
794.
Minister for Overseas Aff irs, nd Mr. Haromichi Tanabe, as
Id
Minister of Communic-tions. Th prointmonts relieved Mr.
Yosliuki H tt, of his concurront posts s (v rseas Minister and
Minister of Com re nd Irdustry;  na Mr. uehiko Shiono of
his concurrent portrolios of Conmuniciti nn  nd Justice. At
the some time Ir. Koro Ot , privet sucr t ry to Prumier Hir numa,
was named Cobi.et Chlef Socr t ry to sucemud Hr. T n be.
Due to his beck round, thi: ppointm mt of Gen:r 1 Koiso
as Minister for Overscas Afflirs was considered particulerly
n oteworthy nnd perh.ps indic tive or the future trend of the
Hir numa Crbinut. Hu h:s beer clos ly connucted with Japanese
exparsion on the Continent,  ving buen diructor of the Military
Aff irs Bureau t the outbreak of tis nchuri n incident, later
Chief of Staff of the Kwantung Aray. nd tlen in 1935 coma nder
of he Korean Army. He hns been most cutsnoken nd positive in
his

=== Page 710 === (confidence 0.98)
…24~
his views and has been closely associated with the single-party
or totaliterirn movement, being a member of the Kokuhansha, a
reactionary and ultr -nationalistic society with the avowed purpe
of reconstructing the Government on the basis of the 'the Imperi
Way". In en interview witl the press shortly following his eppei.
ment, General Koiso is repo.ted to have strted th t he believed
t h-t the anti-Comintern p: ct with Germiny nd It-ly must be
strengthened, th t reorganization of the industrial and other i-
tional systems on a war-time footine must be rualized, and that
there was need for Japan t king speedier and therefore more
effective mensures for the settlement of the China Incident.
The new Minister of Communications, Mr. Tanebe, has been
closely associ ted with communic tion problems for m ny y- rs, hav-
ing served in the Ministry of Communications in vericus capacitics
s ince 1905. He was called from retirement in 1932 to the post of
Privy Councillor of "Manchukuo", which post he held until 1937,
and he was prominently mentioned for the post of Minister of Com
munications in tht ye r. The selection of Mr. Tanabe to heed
the Ministry of Communicetions was generally held to be a good
one, as, being an export on communications, he would be a capable
person to hondle the incrensingly importont duties of the Ministry,
including the control over the nationel electric power industry,
shipping nd aviation i. dustries and to integrate this work with
Jopan's plans for expansicn on the Continent.*
2. Proposed reorgenization of the Minis try of
Commerce and Industry.
It was announced that plans had been completed on April 6
for extensive administrative changes in the organizntion of the
Ministr.
* Embessy's despatch No. 3815, April 11, 1939.

=== Page 711 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
Ministry of Commerce and Industry nnd that an Imperial Ordinance
would shortly be issued effecting the changes.
The plans, it is understood, involved the expansion of ten
existing burenus thet hove been either in the Ministry or under i.
supei vision nd the cre tion of twe new importent bure us -- th.
Price Bureau and the Deliber tive Council for the Adjustment
Demand and Supply of Comnodities. of the plens for the enlorgemen
of the existing burerus perhaps the most far-reaching and signifi
cant are those for the duties of the Geherl Aff irs Burelu of
the Ministry: this burenu will be charged with affairs relrting
to industrial developmont plans common to Jepan, "Manchukuo" and
China, expansion of productivity, and mobilization of materinl
resources. The new Price Burecu will be given authority, under
Article 19 of the Gener l Mobilizaticn Act (this act to be invoked
simultaneously with the crer tion of the Bureau) to regulate com-
modity prices. The Deliber-tive Council for the Adjustment of
Demand and Supply of Commodities will be  policy-moking body for
the purposes which its name implies. One of its most important
duties will be to nct as a liaison office between the Ministries
of Commerce and Industry, War and Navy regarding matters relating
to war-time cconomic dministration.
The practicol import of these changes will be that of con-
solidating and placing on a rel tively permanent basis measures
that have alrendy been undertaken by the Government more or less
of a tomporary choracter, and thet of implementing further the
Government's policy of control :nd regimentation of the economic
life of the nation that has attended the emergency situation in
Japan since the outbrenk of the Chinn Incident.*
(b)
*Embessy's despateh No. 3€14, April 18, 1939.

=== Page 712 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
2
NOTE
894.002
SUBJECT
General review to be made by the Japanese inner Cabinet
of the international situation including relations with Italy
and Germany.
3
6
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel+388
7.p.m.
(Deepatoh, lelegram, instruotion, letter, eta.)
From
Japan (Dooman)
Dated Aug. 4, 1939
761
762.94/397
File No.
391
ml

=== Page 713 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Informed that should the Government fall the next
Prime Minister of Japan would be General Araki.
894.002/392
J
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTelegram.# 390.10 pm
(Deepatoh, lelegram, instraction, lettes, eto.)
Dated.
August 5 1939
From
Japan(Dooman)
xp
File No. 762.94/400
1-1840

=== Page 714 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese Cabinet in a weak position and many believe it may
fall soon.
894.002/393
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel/394
6.p.m.
(Despatoh, telegram, iastruotiom, letter, eta.)
From
Japan (Dooman)
Dated ....
Aug. 8,1939
7011
762.94/402
Coalidential Fue
File No.
U. S. GOVERNUENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1S4O
393
m1

=== Page 715 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
GRAY
CA
TOKYO
Dated Aygust 28, 1939
Rec'd 11:25 p.m. August 27.
SecrEtary of StatE
mA
Washington
682
894.002/394
RUSH
442, August 28, 11 a.m.
our 440, August 26, 2 p.m. paragraph two.
OnE. ThE EntirE CabinEt resigned this morning.
7
Two. General AbE has been called upon to form a nEw
Cabinet.
DOOMAN
CFW
F/A
11

=== Page 716 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
NC
GRAY
FROM TOKYO
Dated August 28, 1939
A
Rec'd 4:45 a.m.
Secretary of State
e
Washington
our 442, August 28, 11 a m.
ThE press is now suggesting thE following names for
the nEw cabinEt.
(OnE) Minister of War: LieutEnant General Rensuke
Isogai, presEnt Chief of Staff of thE Kwangtung Army and
formerly Director of the Military Affairs Bureau of thE
894.002/395
Ministry of War and concurrently ChiEf SEcrEtary of thE
894
Military Council; (two), Navy Minister: ZEngo Yoshida,
prEsEnt Commander in ChiEf of thE combinEd flEEt, visitEd
Washington in 1936 as Commander of thE Training Squadron;
(threE), Minister for Foreign Affairs: Mamoru Shigemitsu,
present Ambassador at London; (four), Minister of Financt,
Juichit Sushima, VicE President of thE Bank of Japan and
formerly Financial Commissioner in New York and London is
rEgarded as thE strongEst candidatE. KazuE KatswEla, FinancE
S
F/A
Minister in 1924, and Kazuo Aoki, President of thE Cabinet
FILED
Planning Board arE also mentioned as possibilities.
1
39
ThE

=== Page 717 === (confidence 0.99)
NC -2- #443 from Tokyo, August 28, 1939
ThE prEss statEs that Ryutaro Nagai leader of thE
MinsEito political party will Enter the Cabinet Either
as Minister of Railways or Minister of Communications.
DOOMAN
DDM
HPD

=== Page 718 === (confidence 0.92)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Soviet-German non-agrossion pact:
Japa ese Cabinet has approved Primedinister's decision
to tender his resinatiom. Politioal chang• in the Government is desire
ofPrime Minister to assume responsibility for failure of Japanes: Govt
to foresee-.
894.002/396
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tolegràh/#440 2pm
(Deopatok, telegram, tastractlon, lettes, eto.)
Dated .....Aug.26,1939
From
...Japan(Daaman)
761.0211/123
File No.
U. B. OVERNMENT PAINTING OPPICE 1-1840
je
294.002

=== Page 719 === (confidence 0.94)
19698
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
EG
This mEssagE must bE
Tokyo
closely paraphrased bE-
forE being communicated
Dated SEptember 19, 1939
to anyonE. (Br)
4
REc'd 6:44 a.m.
Secretary of Stay
0
Washington.
194.002
485, SEptEmber 19, 5 p.m.
894.002/397
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
I hear that thE portfolio of Foreign Affairs
has bEen offered to Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura,
cBr
who will bE favorably recalled as naval attache
at Washington in 1921 and commander of thE JapanEsE
naval forces at Shanghai in 1932.
DOOMAN
WWC
FILED

=== Page 720 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN APFA
B
SEP 2 5 193
McL
This telegram must bE
FROM
closely paraphrased bE-
forE being communicated
Tokyo.
to anyonE. (Br)
Dated SEptember 25, 1939.
REcEivEd 6.18 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
894.002/398
490. SEptEmbEr 25, 4 pom.
Our 485, SEptEmbEr 19, 5 pom.
Admiral Nomura was forma lly appointed to thE
CBF
officE of Minister of Foreign Affairs this afternoon.
REpEatEd to Shanghai. Shanghai plEasE rEpEat
to Peiping and Chungking.
DOOMAN.
SEP 21939
RR
FIIED
F/WB

=== Page 721 === (confidence 0.90)
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATION AND RECORDS
IMMIGRATION SECTION
The General Card Index contains the following file numbers
on this alien's name.
DATE
FILE NUMBER
81.12
9
111.20 ABD
C1 any
9.2139
94
033.9411 Neaiale1
32
8-7.29
894.3311/121 d
093.112/118
(chy VD La H.
11-22-20
2-5-4.
Date of Search
22-/7
Clerk's initials

=== Page 722 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATION AND RECORDS
IMMIGRATION SECTION
NOMURA: APAL
The General Card Index contains the following file numbers
on this alien's name.
DATE
FILE NUMBER
711.9428
8
9-1-32
84.00 119.
793.94/5135
4-2932
/4476
223
2
Date of Search
2
Clerk's initials

=== Page 723 === (confidence 0.94)
19699
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Mes
CJ
GRAY
FROMOKYO
Dated SEptember 26, 1939
W Rec'd 12:50 a.m.
Tel to Tohyo Sapt.27
Division of
FAR ENSTER OFFAIRS
Secretary of State
Wcshington.
887
491, SEptember 26, noon.
894.002/399
Our No. 490, SEptEmbEr 25, 4 p.m.
OnE. TnE JapanEsE prEss is unanimous in its praisE
the appointment of Admiral Noura as ForEign Minister,
CDF.
and alluding to the Admiral's past association with, and
widE acquaintancE in, thE United Stat:s, sEEs in his ap-
pointment thE dEtErmination of thE GovErnment to concen-
tratE all its Efforts on thE problem of readjusting
111
JapanEsE-AmErican relations at a timE when thosE rEla-
tions are facing a sErious test.
Two. Concurrent with thE comment on Admiral Nomura's
appointment thE prEss ExpressEs thE opinion that wide-
spread changEs will takE placE shortly in Japan's missions
01
r
abroad and rEgards thE rEplacEment of Horinouchi as a
foregcne conclusion. There has bEen considerablE spEcu-
lation as to Horinouchi's successor, but thE namE which
F/FG
has been most widely mentioned is that of Mr. Yosuke
Matauoka, Japan's delEgate to the League of Nations at the
ODF
time

=== Page 724 === (confidence 0.97)
19700
-2- #491, SEptember 26, noon, from Tokyo
timE of the Manchurian controversy, and, most recently,
president of the South Manchuria Railway Company.
REpectEd to PEiping, PEiping plecsE repEat to Chung-
king, Shcnghci.
DOOMAN
CA:CFW

=== Page 725 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Change in government now in progress (resignation of Hira-
numa Cabinet); possible changes in Japanese international
relations.
Reports concerning-, with reference to press favorable re-
action to reasons given by Baron Hiranuma for the resigne-
tion of cabinet, namely, to emphasize their sense of re-
sponsibility for the situation created by the conclusion of
German-Soviet Treaty, and to symbolize, by a change of gov-
ernment, the adoption of a new foreign policy.
894.002/400
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #446; 3pm
See
(Despatok, telegram, imstractlon, letter, etc.)
Aug 89, 1939
From
Japan (Dooman)
Dated
To
894.00/866
File No.
FRG.
400

=== Page 726 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
894.002
NOTE
SUBJECT New cabinet under General Nobuyuki Abi.
Members of-, listed in telegrem #447, Aug 30, formally, ap-
pointed today. Amongst unfavorable views of press is that-,
is a collection of nomentities. Statement by cabinet is
expected this evening. Press,withholding comment on foreis
poliey, states that the sole reason and justification for
existence of-, is the initiation of a "new, independent for-
eign poliey", free of European entanglements.
894.002/401
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See T01 /448: 4p
(Despatoh, telegram, lastractiom, letter, eto.)
DatedAug 30, 1930
From
Japan (Dooman)
To
File No. ...894.00/868
B. B. GOVENNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-184O
FRG.

=== Page 727 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
894.002
NOTE
SUBJECT
Maks-up of new cabinet under Genral Nobuyuki Abe, successor
to Hiranuma.
Sets forth-, according to press announcement.
894.002/402
FRG.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #447; 9am
See
(Deepatok, lelegram, tastractios, letter, stc.)
Aug 50, 1939
From/ Japan (Dooman)
Dated
To
894.00/867
File No.
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING GPPICE 1-184
402

=== Page 728 === (confidence 0.94)
NC
GRAY
TOKYO VIA SHANGHAI & N.R.
Dated August 30, 1939
REc'd 6 a.m.
SEcrEtary ef State
Washinrton
447, 0,9m.
Cur 44, Augunt 29, 3 p.m.
ThE fellowing new Cabinet has been announced by the press:
Prime LrintFr GEenfral Nobuyuki AtE, concurrsntly
Minister for ForEign Affaire (prrsumably until arriva from
London of mit).
Minister of Wur Grneral Shuroku Hata.
Minister of Marint VicE Admiral ZEiuro Yoshida.
Mininter (f HomE Affaira, Mr. Nacahio Hara concurrently
Minister cf Social WElfarE.
Minister (f FinancE, Kazuo Aoki concurrently President
of thE Cabinet Planning Board.
Minister of CommercE and Industry, Mr. Takao Godo
concurrently Ministrr of Agriculture.
Minister (f Communications Mr. Ryutaro Nagai concurrently
Minister of Railvays.
Minister (f Education Mr. Kakichi Kawarada.
V
Minister

=== Page 729 === (confidence 0.89)
NC -2- #447 from Tokyo, umust 30, 1939
Minioter of versF Affira Mr. Tsuneo Kanemitsu.
ChiEf SEcretary of thE CabinFt Ry ma Kuendo.
lFnEatFd to Chungking, PEiping.
D)WAN
CSB

=== Page 730 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
Dissention within cabinet.
SUBJECT
Incidents involved set forth. Sections of Foreign Office up
in arms against a new shearing of functions of ministry.
Skepticism growing over endurance of cabinet.
894.002/403
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #504; 5pm
See
(Deepatoh, telegram, tastraction, lettes, sto.)
Oct 5, 1939
From
Japan (Dooman)
Dated
To
894.00/876
File No.
OPP1CE 1-1840
FRG.
402

=== Page 731 === (confidence 0.95)
MR. HORNHECK
-10, 1939.
SEP 231609
M
Mr. Secrete
DIVI
If it is true that Admiral Nomura has been
offered the post of Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs, we will have another illustration of the
extent to which the Japanese coordinate policy
and agencies and instruments for the carrying
out of policy. The Japanese State is today a
militarized and military machine. With a
General as Premier, a General as head of the
War Department, an Admiral as head of the Navy
Department, and an Admiral as head of the
Foreign Ofrice -- they can at least make their
policy of pursuing national objectives on the
basis of armed force reasonably well coordinat-
ed and potentially effoctive in the field of
expoution.
SKX
1939
Stanley K. Hornbeok
NOTEL
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 732 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 19, 1930.
S:
Mr. Secretary.
With reference to Tokyo's telegram no. 485 of
September 19, 5 p.m., stating that, acoording to a re-
port, Admiral Nomura has been offered the post of
Minister for Foreign Affairs, the following biographie
data may be of interest:
Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura, now retired, was born
in 1877. In his career he has served in Austria and
Germany, was a member of the Japanese Delegation to the
Peace Conference after the World War, served as Naval
894.00
Attaohé at Washington (1921), attended the Washington
Maval Conference, was Vioe Chief of the Naval General
Staff, and was a member of the Supreme War Counoil.
Admiral Nomura was Commander of the Japanese naval
foroes at Shanghai during the Sino-Japanese hostilities
of l933, at whioh time he lost an eye as a result of a
bomb thrown by a revolutionary at a gathering of
important Japanese.
Admiral Nomura is an intelligent and able man with
statesmanlike qualities. He has leng been regarded as
OCT:17 1939
favorably disposed toward the United States and toward
Amerioans.
7.3.16.

=== Page 733 === (confidence 0.97)
D11.000
FAR FOSTEHA FA
SEP2-1939
s.
DIVISION OF
Mr. Secre
894.002/405
U.
1939
Mr. Welles:
1. Hugh Byas' comnont
on the new Japanese Premier, General Abe,
is keen and interesting. I have marked
certain sentences.
a 2. The new Minister of Navy, Admiral
Yoshida, is the naval officer who was in
command of the Japanese training ship
which visited several U.S. ports, including
the West Coast, Baltimore and New York, in
1936. Several of us here saw a good deal
of him. He made very favorable impression
as regards personality and manner. -- Our
Naval Attaché at Peiping reports that "the
appointment of Admiral Yoshida is partly
due to the fact that he is responsible
for the U.S. war plan", which would seem
to indicate that there is more to the
visit of a training ship than merely education
of midshipmen and junior officers.
3. It is interesting to compare the
F
faces of the Minister of Navy and the
Minister of War (General Hata) as exhibited
in the pictures printed in the New York Times.
844.002
Stanley K. Hornbeek
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 734 === (confidence 0.97)
AUG 30 193
New York Times
IN. JAPA
ANNGUNGED BY ABE
Premier in Foraign Minjetry
for the Time Being—Hata
Takes Portfolio of War
CHINA CAMPAIGN STRESSED
Press Thinks New Leader May
known, however, that T.
not among them.
Be Chiefly Negative in an
Effort at Compromise
TOKYO. Aug.  ().-The ma
who commanded Japanese forces in
Central Chime most of last year.
General Shueroku Mata, was named
Minister of War today as the new
Premier, General Nobuyuki Abe.
filled the key posts of his Cabinet.
The new government was expect-
ed to pursue a moderate course in
international agairs but to push
General Shunreku Hata, Minister
abead vigorously with the unde-
of War.
olared war in China.
The 64-year-old
general, who
emerged fro mretirement, surround-
ed himeelf with political veterans
for the task of restoring domestic
unity while avoiding international
pitfalls.
Apparently at the word of the
army, General Abe reduced the
number of Cabinet posts from fif-
teen to ten through consolidation of
minor Ministries.
General Abe announced he him-
the Fereign Aftairs portfolio in the
sult of the sigaing of the Berlin-
ssew nen-aggression pact.
The pew sovernment is espected
to pursue an isolationist poliey. In

=== Page 735 === (confidence 0.98)
a teacher of military tastios, "Cul-
tivate the novelist's attitude. Con-
former Home Minister.
sider your plot as a whole before
With General Hata and Admiral
writing a line; develop details in
Yoshida as Ministers of War and
Navy, the Cabinet's two military
the ultimate intention.
going along and never lose sight of
posts are held by veterans of China
The absence of outstanding inci-
warfare. General Hata brings the
dents in his past enables the writers
experience of his Central China
to paint attractive portraits, which
command, and Admiral Yoshida, as
leave the features vague. Explain-
commander of the Second Squa-
ing why he has not held high office
dron, directed the Chinese coastal
before, the newspaper Asahi says
blockade.
that he has been "indifferent to
Their presence emphasised re-
personal glory," but it adds:
peated statements that Japan in-
"He is a man who does not like
tended to make the China warfare
to deal with difficulties and is
her primary concern.
skilled In'protecting himself. For
Outgoing Cabinet Meets
this reason he has always refused
The outgoing Cabinet of Premier
taken the highest it must be be-
high office and now since he has
Hiranuma listened today to out-
lines of European developments and
cause he has a plot up his sleeve.
"Before General Abe lies the tre-
new hostilities on the Manchukuo-
mendous task of setting the China
Outer Mongalia border. Today's
problem and reconstructing the na-
probebly was the last session of the
tion's European policy. If he had
Hiranuma Cabinet.
The Hiranuma government con-
had no ideas on methods of han-
dling those tasks he would have re-
tinues to function until a new Cabi-
fused the premiership. As a states-
net can be put into office.
Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita
but he must have a course already
man he is an unknown quantity
pean situation, while War Minister
informed the Cabinet on the Euro-
charted in his mind.
From Hsinkng, where opinion is
Léeut. Gen. Seishiro Itagaki dis-
largely formulated by the army,
Manchukuo and Outer Mongolia.
cussed hostilities on the border of
comes a characterisyc observation
that "Jápan's policy n Manchukuo
Manchukuo calls part of her west-
along the Khalka River, which
After five days of hard fighting
cannot pe affected by any change
in the Cabinet in rokyo.
ern border, Mongol forces apparent-
Move Toward Britain Seen
ly still held positions on the east
Wireless to Tis Nsw Yoak Tms.
bank.
Domei, Japanese news agency,
CHUNGKING, China, Aug. 20.—
The projected composition of the
heavily bombed the Mongol posi-
reported that Japanese planes
new Japanese Cabinet is serving to
lery duel and land manoeuvres. In-
tions simultaneously with an artil-
is reorienting her foreign policy in
confirm here the feeling that Japan
termittent fighting has persisted
the direction of an agreement with
there for more than three month
Britain.
It is pointed out that General
Crodits Are Negative
Nobuyuki Abe, the new Premier,
hes been close to General Kasu-
By HUGH BYAS
hiee Ugaki, long noted for his fa-
Wireless to Txs NMasw Toak Troms.
TOXYO, Aug. 29.—Searching for
reasons that might have induced
the Emperor's advisers to choose a
lüttle-known man as Premier, the
press credits General Nobuyuki Abe
chiefly with negative qualities. He
la depicted as a "genial personal-
hl views are unknown
but his o
ge of the workings

=== Page 736 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Platform adopted by the present Cabinet of
Premier Abe, as reported in the JAPAN ADVERTISER
of Sept. 14. Outlines -, enolosing newspaper
olipping on the subjoot.
aa
894.002
For the original paper from which reference is taken
/406
See
#4139
(Deepatok, telogram, tmstraotlom, letter, elo.)
Dated8opt. 20. 1939
From
Japan (Dooman)
To
File No.
894.00/878
894.00
40
6

=== Page 737 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
894.002
NOTE
SUBJECT
Dissension in the Foreign Office over projected Trade
Ministry.
Developments and conjecture as to possible course of events.
894.002/407
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...
#4175
(Despatoh, telegram, imstraotiom, letter, eto.)
Dated
Oct 10, 1939
From
Japan (Dooman)
To
894.00/880
File No.
0. 6. GOVEANMENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840
FRG.
lcy

=== Page 738 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Platform of the Abe Cabinet:
Report ooncerning -.
aa
894.002/408
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#4181
(Deepatoh, telegram, imstraction, lettes, eta.)
From
Dated0ct.16..1939
Japan..(Grew).
To
File No.
894.00 P.Ra/142.
U. S. GOVERNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1540

=== Page 739 === (confidence 0.96)
(a)
The Cabinet
1. Platform of the Abe Cabinet.
The Abe Cabinet issued a short statement on Septe aber
13 setting forth its platform. There has been mentioned in
894.002
the foregoing section the first two planks of the platform --
the concentration of all fforts on the settlement of the
China Incident end th: rendering of positive assistance to
th  stablishe nt ot e n w rigire in China. Ther were also
thr oth r roint: te th. platform. Those wore: uxpansion
of th: muans of roduction unt r : d rinit, comprohensiv
prorram invelving Jupan, "anehukuo". and China and th: ad-
justmont of for irn trad ; furth r str neth ning of th:
national mobilization structur: including pric= control and
mobilizut on of labor; and int rnal administrative roform.
The platform it will b noted was couched in v ry
gun ral t rns, and xc at fer the point th t Ja an intend
directly to tuke a hand in th cu  tion of cr uting a now
gov rnaent in China did nct r veul anything particularly
new in Jaran's for ien or domestic policies. The riception
given the announcemint was not nthusiastic, ane the general
attitude taken by the priss w's that the country was more
anxious to heur of rusults than to be given further statement:
of broad general plans.*

=== Page 740 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
994.002
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of Prime Minister Abe requested by resolution,
signed by 250 members of the Diet.
Action considered by Embassy as, definitely, a reflection of
the growing popular discontent against the inoreasing goverm-
mental control over all aspects of national activity. With
reference to possible replacement, states it is reasonable
to assume that, if there is not a change of government during
present recess, such change is not expected to occur until
end of session. Sets forth certain qualities that must be
present in the make up of possible successor, to measure up to
popular conception.
894.002/409
FRG.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
To1 ¥713; 7pm
See
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruction, lettes, eta.)
Dec 28, 1959
From
Japan (Grew)
Dated
To
894.00/884
File No.
U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING PPICE 1-1540

=== Page 741 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
HSM
Tokyo
This tElegram must bE
closely paraphrased
DatEd DEccnbcr 20, 1939
rforE bEing conmuni-
cated to anyonE. (Br.)
REc'd 9:37 a..
Te
J oretary of State,
Washington.
713, DEcEmbEr 20, 7 p. n.
OnE. It is still too Early to EstimatE accuratEly
the full significanct of the action of 250 mEmbars of
ths Diet in signing and presenting yesterda to the
PrinE Minister a resolution calling on him to  Esign.
ThE stEp, howEver, is dEfinitely a rEflection of thE
srowing popular discontent against the increasing gov-
884
Ernmental control over all aspEcts of national activity
which is resulting in irksonE restrictions without
bringing pErceptibly nEarer an End to thE basic causE
for such cntrol, namely, thE China conflict. lEasures
thus far taken to prevent rises in thE prices of daily
necessities and to avert inflation, formulated for the
lost part by government officials lacking in practical
ExpEriencE, havE not bEEn EffEctivE, and wE fEE! that
this rEcent movE on thE part of members of thE DiEt is
a strong reflection of the feeling of insecurity anong
the

=== Page 742 === (confidence 0.95)
hsm -2- No. 713, DEcember 28, 7 p. m., fron Tokyo
the nasses which has bEEn growing during the past few
WEEks. It is in a sEnsE a rEvolt against the policy
of draft which has characterized Each of thr Cabinrts
sincE thE conflict bEgan, thE present Cabinet morE
strongly than its two innEdiatE prEdEcEssors. ( ND)
SEOT CN ONE).
GRE!
RR

=== Page 743 === (confidence 0.91)
TS11
Tokyo
This telegran rust bE
closely peranhrased
DatEd JECE DEr 2., 1939
hefore being corruni-
cotrd to anyonE. (Br.)
REC117
SrcrEtary of itate,
Washington.
713, DECEhEr 2, 7. .(3ET1C: ).
Two. WEll infocd JapanesE, onE of th a CabinEt
councilor, in corversatr on wit us today, wEre unanilously
of t'F opinion tlat t's abinet's days arE nunbeped.
So t thought that a chan E of governnent will ta'E placE
during the new yEar pccEss which lasts until Januar ,
while others beliEve that the chances arE cood of thE
Cabinet lasting out thc Diet sassion, wlic! is to con-
cluds toward thE End oi March. It is rars for a JabinEt
to resign while the Diet is sittin, and it would be
rEasonable to assume t h if therE is not a chan E of
governnent during the peesent recess such changE is not
ExpEcted to occur until the End of thE sEssion.
ThreE. WE hEar thet supporters of Ad: iral Caumi
and GEneral Ugaki respectively arE already cctivE, but
therE are at present no signs of a general call for
EithEr

=== Page 744 === (confidence 0.95)
hsm -2- No.713. DEcEmber 28, 7 p.m.(SEction 2) from Tokyo
Either of thesE two to head the nExt CabinEt. The
sEarch in thE popular mind is for somEonE who, firat,
is able to securE thE support of all political Elcents
and, sEcond, has sufficiEnt couragE and dEtermination
to takE the drastic and positivE mEasures w'ich alonE
can bE ExpEcted to rEsolvE Japan's internal and cxternal
difficulties. TherE are several who fulfill ths first
cendition but therE is no onE now visible on th: horizon
who fulfills both. Cipur text by airmail to Priping,
Shanghai. (END OF ME ISAE).
GREW
C3B

=== Page 745 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
Resignation of Premier Abe; quest for successor.
SUBJECT
Reports concerning-,
894.002/410
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #18; Noon
(Deepatoh, telegram, Lastruotlom, lettes, eto.)
Jan 14, 1940
Japan (Grew)
From
Dated
To
File No.
894.00/890
U. 8. GOVENNENT PRINTING OPVICE 1-1840
FRG.
0/0

=== Page 746 === (confidence 0.95)
F
GRAY
LMS
Toko
Dated Jinuary 14, 1940
Reed 2:35 a. m.
SEcretary of StatE,
Washington.
18, January 14, noon.
My 17, Jnuary 12, 8 P. .
Domei rEports that PrEnicr AbE has submitted his
rEsignation to thE EpEror who las accEpted it and or-
dered Yuasa to subit reconaendations for a new premier.
894.00
ThE Cabinet is now drafting a publie statrment giving
thE reasons for its resignstion.
Consultation with thE GEnro and other usual formal
68
political maneuvers in sElectin a premier will probably
0
prevent announcEmEnt of thE sElection bEforE latE to-
night or tomorrow morning. KonoE rEportedly remains
determined not to bEcomE thE nExt PrimE Minister. ThE
individuals sugcested in my tclegram under reference
all remain possibilities, but thE situation is still
obscurE indicating that thE sElEction has not yEt bEen
decided upon. ThE reluctancE of thE army to accept
direct political leadership and responsibility, and the
dEtermination of KonoE not to again assunE thE office
havE madE it difficult to sElect a suitablE candidatE
who

=== Page 747 === (confidence 0.96)
LMS 2-No. 18, January 14, noon, from Tokyo
who might bE able to form a strong Cabinet.
Cipher text to Priping, Shangini by wirmail.
GREW
ROW:CSB

=== Page 748 === (confidence 0.89)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Appointments in new cabinet definitely fixed are as follom:
Arite es Minister for Foreign Affairs and Admirel Yoshida
as Mavy Minister. General Hata will remain as Minister
of war.
894.002/ 411
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Zol.fep3spm
(Deepatoh, telegram, imstraotiom, lettes, eto.)
From
Dated Jan. 15, 1940
Japen.(Grev)
Pax
894.00/898.
File No.
U. S. 0VENMNT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840

=== Page 749 === (confidence 0.92)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT New Japanese Cabinet.
All positions in - filled. Names given.
894.002/412
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Be1. fes 6pm
(Deepatoh, lelogram, Lastraotion, letter, eto.)
From/ Japam (Grew)
Dated Jan. 16, 1940
Do
894.00/895
File No.
N

=== Page 750 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Appointment of certain now Ministers in the
Japanese Cabinet.
Report conoerning -, for month of November, 1939.
aa
894.002
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#4377
See
(Despatoh, lelegram, tastructiom, letter, eto.)
/413
Dated
Doo. 28, 1939
From
Japan (Grew)
To
894.00 P.R./144.
File No.
1-1840
1

=== Page 751 === (confidence 0.93)
-22-
III. INTERNAL POLITICA CCDITICUS.
(0)
Annointnent of Full-Tire "elfare rn!
Reilvey Tnisters.
At the end of the nor th it uas announced that :r.
Viyoshi Akit
diji at n o been ennointed
respectively
 elfie tra Rily: inicters. The port-
folio of the olf re : ii istr had been held u. to that
tine co currently iti . t of tne ! inistry of Home Af-
fr irs by  r. T yoshi o. r, ne th.t of the Railvuy :ini-
stry by i. Ryutere  i. Ir. Akit is e veter in party
politici nd i frili ted viti tie Seiyukai. e vas
not, hovever, involved i
the dissentio. th t hod attend-
ed the splitting-up of the  rty into tvo fections end
prcrently foi this re son as consicerea to be acceptable
to the paity rs a hole as its repiesent tive in the cov-
ernnent. r. Paget: has been proninent ir public life in
Tanen for any ecrr. Fe hs held  nunber of positions
in the civil rervice, h' & been  avor of Tolvo for tvo
terrs ne under tha Hirote Cchinet, inister for Oversecs
Affairs. ve is also vell knon in educsti nal circles and
at the time of his opoirtnent s presi ent of one of the
universities.
These appointrents represented the fial departure of
the Abe Governent fro: its policy, ennounceu at its incep-
tior of remaining as & srall Cabinet. The Prenier explained
th:t the ppointment of the two new inisters would achieve
grester collaboration by the people vith the Government.
There ves undoubtedly a further motive in associ:ting the
parties with the Governnent, and that vas to forestall, if
powsible, attecks fro: the politicians thet ere expected
t0

=== Page 752 === (confidence 0.93)
-23-
In the nccoti. tions th t "ere cerried ou bero:, tho
t'o I inisters vere selected, the Pren ier c. fered  cabi-
net or  ce to  Chu ji : chi, Prosident or tle : inseito
". rty. Ir. eli', den ite "reguent entre ties, leter-
: inedlv r fused to join the Governnert. Yis excuse ir not
Coine so ves th t le felt he ccula better ce ve the coun-
try by remainin outcide of the cabi et urd cooperating
it. it s   rty le der. Wis rerus. I to join the C binet
vas held ty the press to be a defi ite setbeck to the
Abe c binet, further e phusisinc its weakress en. tle smell
corfidence tht the politic I portier an: the rtion as e
whole heve in it.
(b) Trde inistry.
It will be rec: lled th t en enrounecnent vrs rade in
the latter : rt of ent mber to the effect th' t a Trede
"inistry vould shortly bo est blished. Rsports epesred
durin~ the nonth uner revie to the effect thet so nuch
opposition had beer brourht fortr  inst the establish-
ment of this ministry fror. the v ricus of ficials of the
Covernment th t it  merred likely that tho inis ry vould
not be estsblished for some time to core.
(c) Civil Service Rofori.
Iuch consideretion apparently was iven during the
month to the modificetion of the civil service syster. in
J:pan. Under tle provisions of the civil service security
act, hich was enacted in l931, it vas provided that Gov-
ernment officials could not be dismissed fron office vith-
out good cause. idespresd feeling had been menifested in
t1：

=== Page 753 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
the country against the operation of this act which, it
was folt, was securing tho tonure of ofrice of many in-
officient and purcly buruaucratic officials, end the do-
mand hau been henrd fren muny sidus that a clearing of
"dead wood" should to undort u n in order that the Gov en-
ment might secure th. services of nore able and qualifiea
mon. To do this it would be necossury to change the civil
sorvice law. In his interviov on November 2l the Prime
Minister is ruported as stating that the Govornment had
about completod its study for the cliange of the systom by
which the socured status of Covernment officials would ve
shortly abolished. However, the strong opposition to any
change omanating fron the Government buroaus, and also
fror tho Privy Council, still had to bo overcome, and by
the cnd of Novembor no dofinito action ir the natter had
boun taken.
(a)
Official Price Control.
In several stateronts made by the Minister of Commerce
and Industry, Admiral Godo was reported to have said
that the policy of fixing pricos, the one based solely on
world price levels, had been changod and that, theroafter,
tho Government would scek to formulate "appropriato prices".
Ho cxplainod that the Governmont's commodity prico measures
had boon initially drafted and onforced on the basis of in-
ternational levels prevailing bcforo the outbroak of the
Europeun war with tho aim of bringing Japanese prices down
to thoso levels. He said that by the opening of the Europ-
ean hostilitios avorago Japanese prices had risen by some
20% and averago intornational prices had dropped by about
10%

=== Page 754 === (confidence 0.95)
-25-
10% since the beginning of the China Affair. The ver
in Turone ac brought intern tional rices b'c! un to,
and in sore cases above, Tpanese rice indices, and,
theee: ue, there voule be no need to cepress orices i
Teran. In seekino to formul.te "  prouri te prices",
the Covernment cid
ot i1. t
1. ndo.. alto ether the lou
rice policy hut hoped r ther to put the price structure
in Japan in better b: lance cue to the chen e i conditions.
The lnn cnlled for the acjustment of rices in Japen to
fit the rice structure both t home ane cbrocd. The Hini-
ter explcined that vorld prices vould be particulurly
considered in regard to fixing the levels for inported
conmodities ana th: t specia! standerds roula be set up
for goods needed i. the coverment's imiustrial expension
proren and for aaily necessities.
The ratter of rices in Jeprn lied f llen irto a
state of consider: ble confusion curing "ovember, end al-
though there vere no si~ns of the tter cetting out of
hand, any recdjustrents aparently voula  ve to be nede.
Prices, desoite the coverrment's efforts to keep then
doum, cortinued to rise. The official prices of rice, to-
bacco, silk textiles and some other rinor iters were raised.
There ves sone evasion of the price lavs through v rious de-
vices resorted to by certrin elenents of the people. Iuch
complaint vas also he rd that commodities vere being vith-
held fro. the merket in cnticipation or further increases
i: prices at a lrter d&te.
(e) Inportont Statenents of Public Officials.
There heve beer noted in previous sections of this
report

=== Page 755 === (confidence 0.88)
-26-
report the rennrks mocde by the Prine inistor on Nov-
er:ber 1 and November 25, (nd clso & comment rrde by tho
Linister of or on Vovenber 1l in regard to the settle-
 et  the Chi "i. cident.
cener 1  to io re otn i the coue of i inter-
viev on Yoverber 1l t ve e ru thar r k  cor
1t
in Japen's militery policy, subst: ntiall" :s lollovs:
The Ary, demite the meny cifricultios ich still ex-
ist in the way of the dispos I of t e Chint inciaent",
voule as une full re:po sibility to  rds th t end; it
wes irper tive for Jrpan to replenis. its prmenents as
quickl/ as possible; the nechanirction of the Army nust
be pushed chesd es f st ns possible, particularly in viev
of the nuneric I  ne qunlit tive strength of "our poten-
tiel rival"; an "J n's defeaive centre las been trans-
ferred to the continent".
IV.COTTC
