894.5043 Economic Matters., Labor., Japan, Organization. Unions., September 1, 1945 - March 26, 1946 (File 1512)
ID: 894.5043-1512   Pages: 127   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5043-economic-matters-labor-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.89)
POREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
BOKRDDDEOEONDLLOXUAROAEEX
894.5043/9
MEMORANDUM
6
NCH
LTO:
Hon. Daán Acheson
DATE: 9/1/45
0
1.
Under Secretary of Stato
FROM:
Constande G. Gaynor
Project.Control Staff
SUBJECT:
9-145
9
S
6
f
Attached is a copy of FEA report No. LM-1 - Trade Unions and Collective
5043
Bargaining in Japan - for your use.
UNDRR
SECR
CS/D
1945
9-145
BEW 121

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
L-1
COMP IDENT IAL
Copy No. 50
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
EnemyBranch
TRADE UNIONS AND COLLECT IVE BARGAINING IN JAPAN
(This report is identical with the Civil Affairs
Guide of the same title, prepared for the Civil
Affairs Division, War Department.)
CONFIDENTIAL
July 1945
0-4300 Cover

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. SULMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Concern of Military Government with Trade Unions and Col-
lective Bargaining
B. Japanese Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining to date
C. Probable Labor Conditions under Military Government
D. Recommended Military Government Courses of Action
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
2. Collective Bargaining
3. Strikes
4. Adjustment of Industrial Disputes
5. Administration
II. THE TRADE UNION MOVELENT AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS
A. Historical Background
B. The Trade Unions before the Labor Front
1. The Left-wing Unions
a. National Council of Japanese Labor Unions
b. General Federation of Japanese Transport Workers
2. The Conservative Unions
a. All-Japan General Federation of Labor
b. Japan Seamen's Union
c. Mercantile Marine Officera' Association
d. Japan Harbor Workers' Union
3. Company Unions
4. The Fascist Labor Unions
C.
Organizations Opposed to Trade Unions
1. Patriotic Societies
2. Industrial Associations
3. Harmonization Societies
UNNA
0-4300 P1 o? 56 --

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
D. The Labor Front
1. History
2. Structure
3. Functions
2
E. Militarization of Labor
F. Political Activities of Labor
III. THE PATTERN OF JAPANESE INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
A. Paternalistic Tradition
B. Police Interference with Trade Unions
1. The Peace Preservation Law
2. Protective Surveillance for Thought Offenses Law
3. National Mobilization Law
4. Public Peace Police Law
5. Police Crimes Punishments Ordinance
6. Repressive Police Agencies
C. Disputes and Strikes
D. Collective Bargaining, Shop Committees and Mechanisms for
Settling Capital-Labor Disputes
1. Collective Bargaining
2. Shop Committees
3. Mechanism for Settling Capital-Labor Disputes
a. Arbitration Boards
b. Department of Welfare Arbitration Officials
c. Police Arbitration
d. Joint Maritime Board
e. Other Mechanisms
IV. PROGRAM FOR MILITARY GOVERNMENT
A. Conditions Likely to Confront Military Government
1. Poor Economic Position of the Japanese Worker
2. Probable Rise of Trade Unions
3. Disputes and Strikes
B. Concern of Military Government with Industrial Relations
C. Recommended Ceneral Courses of Action for Military Government
0-4800 Pa bu

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-111-
D. Recommended Program for Military Government
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
a. Proclamation of General Policy
b. Freedom of Speech
c. Abrogation of Repressive Legislation
d. Release of Labor Prisoners
e. Dissolution of "Sampo" and Associated Organizations
2. Collective Bargaining
3. Strikes
4. Adjustment of Industrial Disputes
a. Direct Negotiation
b. Voluntary Mediation, Conciliation, and Arbitration
C.
Compulsory Arbitration
d. Inadequacy of Existing Mechanisms
e. Suggested Methods
5. Administration
a. Elimination of Undesirable Japanese Official
agencies
b. Elimination of Undesirable Personnel
c. Labor Section in Military Government
APPENDICES
A. Roster of Principal Labor Unions before the China War (1936)
B. Statistics of Trade Union Membership
1. Trade Union Membership, 1926-1939
2. Trade Union Membership,by Industry, 1929,1936,1939
3. Chief Areas of Trade Union and "Labor Front"
Membership (June 1939)
C. Statistics on Labor Disputes in Japan
1. Labor Disputes in Japan, 1931-1940
2. Number of Disputes by Causes
3. Adjustment of Disputes
D. Selected Laws Obstructing or Repressing Trade Union Organization
and Activity Which Should be Abrogated or Amended by Military
Government.
0-4300 P3 nobu

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
I. SULMARY AND RECOMLENDATIONS
A. Concern of Military Government with Trade Unions and
Collective Bargaining
Military Government will have two primary concerns in the field
of labor and industrial relations in Japan: (1) to ensure the con-
tinued operation of industries and cervices essential to military opera-
tions and security and (2) to establish conditions favorable to the de-
velopment of democratic organizations and ideas. To achieve these aims,
Military Government will need to establish general policies and work out
a consistent program with respect to Japanese trade unions and collective
bargaining during the military occupation period.
B. Japanese Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining to date
Up to the beginning of the China War in 1937, the Japanese trade
union movement, while never as strong as in most western countries, was
an important element in Japanese economic and political life. Its high
point was reached in 1931, when it inaluded almost 8 percent of all in-
dustrial workers, with heavy concentration in the metals and machinery
industries and in the merchant marine. Organizationally, the trade
union movement was split along ideological lines among a handful of
federations which exercised rather loose control over the individual
unions. Individual unions were often organized on the basis of an
industry, but most often consisted of the workers of a given locality.
Partly as a result of police repression of the radicals and liberals,
the conservative unions were most numerous and powerful. From 1925
until 1940 when they were dissolved, the unions engaged rather heavily
in political activity, sometimes at the expense of neglecting cirect
economic issues of wages, hours, and working conditions. In 1937,
the high point of labor political activity, the labor political parties
polled one million out of some ten million votes. On the whole, the
trade unions were among the most consistent of the advocates of de-
mocratic ideas and international peace in Japan.
This development of trade union organization is particularly
significant in that it took place under highly unfavorable conditions.
The Japanese tradition of paternalism, highly restrictive laws, and
the repressive activities of the police, who constantly interfered with
free labor organizations, made it difficult to recruit trade union mem-
bers, bargain c∞llectively, or strike. Partly because the government
never accorded official recognition to trade unions, the western mecha-
nisms used in orderly labor-capital relations such as collective bar-
gaining agreements, shop committees, and arbitration boards, were
all relatively unimportant in Japan.
0-4800 P6 bu

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
With the advent of the China War, the government increased its re-
pressive activities in a consistent attempt to remove all elements
which might interfere with its totalitarian mobilization of labor
for war. The trade unions were forced to dissolve and in their place
was set up a monolithic organization of Industrial Patriotic Societies,
or "Sampo", closely analogous to the Labor Front in Germany. The
labor political parties were absorbed into the Imperial Rule Assistance
Association, a large number of left-wing and liberal trade union
leaders were imprisoned; and a system of military ranks were intro-
duced into the factories and mines. Although strikes were not ex-
pressly forbidden by law, they were banned in practise by blanket
administrative prohibitions. Labor reaction to these measures is
difficult to gauge because of the heavy cloak of censorship in war-
time Japan, but reports have seeped through which indicate that con-
siderable underground activity on the part of some labor groups per
sists.
C. Probable Labor Conditions under Military Government
All present indications are that the economic position of the
Japanese laborers, never too good, will have deteriorated greatly by
the end of hostilities and will continue to worsen immediately there-
after, particularly if inflation occurs. In a great many cases, the
Japanese laborers will be compelled to seek adjustments in their terms
of employment. The pre-war history and the reported wartime activity
of Japanese labor indicate that after the collapse of the Japanese
government and its totalitarian controls, the workers may organize
numerous trade unions for the purpose of bargaining collectively for
better wages, hours and working conditions. Many disputes may arise
as a consequence of labor demands for adjustments of employer attempts
to cut labor costs. In some cases these disputes will develop into
strikes. However, the poor bargaining position of the laborers even
when members of a trade union is believed'to lessen the chances of
widespread strikes. It is also anticipated that some of the trade
unions will engage in political education and agitation, but such
political activity is considered to be beyond the scope of this Guide.
(See Civil Affairs Guide on Political Parties in Japan).
D. Recommended Military Government Courses of Action
Since many of the adjustments which the trade unions will seek
will be considered justified by Military Government and since trade
unions have been among the most effective proponents of democratic
ideas in Japan, it is recommended that Military Government should
generally look with favor upon and protect the organization and
growth of trade unions. It is further recommended that collective
bargaining between employers, on the one hand, and democratically
organized trade unions or other representatives freely chosen by
the employees, on the other, be encoaraged as a democratic and
0-4800 P0 bu

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
stabilizing influence in labor relations. As a general rule, Military
Government will find it desirable to reduce the total number of in-
dustrial disputes and resulting work stoppages, and might therefore
establish mechanisms for adjusting such disputes. Strikes and lock-
outs in industries whose continued operation is essential for mili-
tary operations or security, however, should be prohibited.
To carry out these policies and to achieve the objectives of
lilitary Government, it will be necessary for Military Government to
effect sweeping changes in the present system of industrial relations
and in the legal framework within which labor organizations may operate.
The Military Government program with respect to trade unions and col-
loctive bargaining which is recommended in this Guide may be sum-
marized as follows:
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
a. As soon as it is practicable, Military Government should issue
a proclamation recognizing the freedom of industrial and agricultural workers
to join trade unions or other organizations of their owm choice for purposes
of improving their terms of employment and mutual protection. However, it
should be made clear that labor associations of any kind which are operated
for militaristic or nationalistic purposes will not be permitted.
b. The freedom to organize and bargain collectively implies
the freedom of assembly and speech. Therefore, access to public
channels of information and opinion, such as the radio and press,
on a non-discriminatory basis, should be granted as long as the exer-
cise of these rights is in accord with military security.
c. In order to guarantee freedom to organize, Military Govern-
ment should abrogate all laws which prevent the free organization of
trads unions and all legitimate trade union acticity directed towards
improving wages, hours, and working conditions. This includes, to-
gether with subsequent amendments (1) The Peace Preservation Law of
1941, (2) The Protective Surveillance for Thought Offenses Law of 1936,
(3) Articles 4, 6, and 7 of the National Mobilization Law of 1938
as revised in 1941, (4) Articles 3 and 8 of the Public Peace Police
Law of 1900 as amended in 1922, 1926 and 1941, (5) Paragraphs 3 and 4
of Article 1 and Paragraphs 5 and 31 of Article 2 of the Police Crimes
Punishments Ordinance of 1908, as amended in 1919 and (b) the factory
and Workshop Supervision Ordinance of March 18, 1944.
d. All persons who have been imprisoned under the fore-
going laws for activity or "thought" in connection with trade unions
or other labor organizations should be released as soon as possible.
e. The Industrial Patriotic Associations and associated or-
ganizations, including whatever organizations have succeeded the
labor sections of the IRAA and also the Harmonization Society and the
"patriotic" socleties, should be dissolved.
0-4300 P7 D0

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
2.
Collective Bargaining
a. As soon as democratically organized and governed trade unions
are formed they should be permitted to bargain collectively with em-
ployers regarding the terms of employment subject to such policies on
wages, hours, and working conditions as are established by Military
Government.
b. In cases of conflict as to the jurisdiction of & collective
bargaining agreement, Military Government should consider invalid any
collective bargaining agreement in which the workers' representative
is not deemed by MG to have been freely chosen.
3. Strikes
a. Strikes or other work stoppages should not be permitted in in-
dustries whose continuous operation is essential to military security
or military operations or with the objectives or needs of Military
Covernment.
b. Military Government should permit strikes in non-ossential
industries, except where they interfere with the maintenance of law
and order or military security. Military Government should, however,
adopt or authorize appropriate procedures, such as those listed below,
to adjust industrial disputes in non-essential industries in order to
prevent strikes or settle them promptly.
4. Adjustment of Industrial Disputes
a. It is expected that the majority of labor disputes can
be settled by direct and voluntary negotiation between the worker or
his representative and the employer.
b. Arbitration in industrial disputes involving non-essential
industries should take place only at the request of both parties.
c. In essential industries, labor disputes may be conciliated
or mediated by Japanese acceptable to both employers and workers. Where
no decision can be arrived at, arbitration by Military Government or
an appointee of Military Government may be necessary.
d. Pre-war mechanisms for the adjustment of industrial disputes
will usually be found to be non-oxistent, inadequate or biased against
trade unions. All police functions with regard to arbitration of
industrial disputes should be cancelled. The arbitration boards pro-
vided by the Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926 and the Joint
Maritime Board may possibly be of use if they are adapted to charged
circumstances.
e. Several methods for relieving the load of industrial dis-
0-4300 Pa bu

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
putes may be of use to Military Government. Among them are:
i. Encouragement of region-wide or industry-wide
collective bargaining agreement between trade union federations or
other workers' representatives and industry associations.
ii. Allowance of shop committees genuinely composed of
employee and employer representatives and not dominated by the employer,
until trade unions are established. However, in all matters involving
governmental agencies, where a trade union has been established, it
should be considered the genuine representative of the laborers in
preference to a shop committee in the same establishment.
iii. Establishment of minimum standards of hours
and working conditions for particular industries. (For a more ex-
tended discussion of this problem see Civil Affairs Guides on
Working Conditions in Japan other than Wages and Hours and on Control of
Wages and Hours in Japan.)
iv. Finally, the possible establishment by Military
Government of administrative mechaniamsstaffed by Japanese responsible
to Military Government. Within the framework of Military Government
regulations, such adninistrative bodies would interpret and rule on
collective bargaining agreement', spheres of union jurisdiction and
disputes arising therefrom.
5.
Administration
a. Japanese government agencies which have been set up or
have functioned for the purpose of obstructing free labor organization
and legitimate trade union activities should be abolished.
b. Military Government should declare ineligible for em-
ployment in its labor agencies or as onciliators, mediators, or ar
bitrators all those who have been directly connected in a responsible
capacity with the obstruction or repression of trade union organiza-
tions and activities.
c. Within Military Government a labor section should be es-
tablished to administer Military Government's policy with regard to
employer-employee relations. Among its functions would be the screen-
ing of undesirable personnel, the selection of arbitrators and the
reviow of collecting bargaining agreements, arbitration decisions
and rulings by subordinate labor agencies.
0-4800 Fg bu

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
II. THE TRADE UNION MOVEMENT AND PELATED ORGANIZATIONS
A. Historical Background
Trade unionism developed with the growth of modern Japanese in-
dustry during the early decades of this century. While its numerical
strength relative to the industrial population was never as great as
in most countries its importance was substantial. In 1931, organizt:
workers represented 7.9 percent of all industrial workers. At the peak
of their numerical strength in 1936, trade unions had more than 420,000
members, or 6.9 percent of all industrial workers. The basic industries,
such as communications, transport, etal working and chemicals were, how-
ever, more highly organized than industry as a whole. Forty percent
of the transport workers were in unions (including the powerful Seamen's
Union), and there was almost as large a percentage of organization
among the metal workers. In addition to having this important strength
in basic industries, the high degree of political activity of the trade
unions gave them an importance far beyond their numerical strength.
Additional significance attaches to the fact that the movement
became as large as it did in spite of unusually strong opposition from em-
ployers and harsn repressive measures taken periodically by the govern-
ment. Employers made every effort to carry into large industries the
traditional paternalistic relationship between employer and employee.
This had long existed in handicraft industries where workers lived
and worked in the homes of their employers, and this strong tradition
made union organization difficult. Furthermore, agricultural over-
population provided an inexhaustible supply of labor for the factories,
and fear of unemployment placed the Japanese laborer in a poor bar-
gaining position.
While tradition and employer opposition retarded the growth of
the labor movement, the chief hindrence to the free development of
unions came not from employers directly but from the police, acting
under the authority of a series of Public Peace Police and Peace
Preservation Laws and related police regulations beginning in 1900.
Under these laws, the police were empowered to suppress public meetings
and demonstrations, break strikes, forbid picketing, disband unions,
and arrest and execute leaders.
In spite of the impediments placed in the path of Japanese
trade unions by the government and employers, Japanese labor succeeded
in organizing a number of establishments and participated in many
strikes, particularly just after the First World War. Of particular
significance as a show of labor strength at about this time was the
wave of dockyard strikes in the Kobe-Osaka district in 192l which
involved 30,000 trade unionists and lasted for a month.
0-4800 P10 bu

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
The decade of the 'twenties (192l-l931), often called Japan's"liberal
period", witnessed the height of the Japanese trade union movement. Over
the course of that period, labor union membership grew from 100,000 (or 3
percent of the total industrial population) to 350,000 (or about 7 per-
cent) in 1930. This decade also saw the rise of several strong unions,
of which the most prominent were the moderate Nippon Rodo Sodomei (Japan
General Federation of Labor), the right wing Kaiin Kumiai (Seamen's
Union) and the left-wing Nippon Rodo Kumiai Hyogi-kai (Japan Council
of Labor Unions) which was suppressed by the government in 1928. The
'twenties also inaugurated political activity on the part of the unions.
After the passage of the Universal Manhood Suffrage Act in 1925, the
unions hastened to organize political parties which in 1928 polled
489, 743 out of a total of some twelve million votes and elected five
representatives to the National Diet.
The period of the early and middle 'thirties was marked by a slow
rise in total union membership together with a small decline in the pro-
portion of workers organized, by a growing conservatism in labor union
policies and aims, and by greatly intensified repression on the part of
the government and the police. The periodic "Communist raida" which
began in 1928 and which resulted in the arrest of some 24,000 individuals
from 1931 to 1934 alone removed some of the ablest and most aggressive
union leaders from the scene and frightened many others into compliance
with government policies. The Manchuria "Incident" in 193l stimulated
a wave of nationalism and opposition to such "foreign ideas" as labor
unions, and spurred the activities of "patriotic" gangs which had for
some years been attacking union leaders and breaking up labor meetings.
The 'thirties also saw the rise of the Fascist labor unions.
The end of the 'thirties finally saw the disappearance of the
legal trade union movement. In 1936 the government disbanded the con-
servative and relatively inactive Federation of Workers in Government
Arsenals. The advent of the China War in 1937 brought the forced
dissulution of the left-wing Trade Union Council and in 1938 the
passage of the National Mobilization Act undermined the legal and bar-
gaining position of the labor unions by granting broad authority to
the government to control labor, authority which was subsequently
applied in a series of ministerial ordinances providing for labor
conscription, suspending the Factory Acts (setting minimum working
conditions), and determining other conditions of employment 1/.
By June 1939 trade union membership had fallen to 314, 737 or
only 3.9 percent of all industrial workers.
In 1940 all labor unions
1
See Civil Affairs Guides on Control of Wages and Hours in Japan,
Working Conditions in Japan other than Wages and Hours, and
Organization of the Labor Supply in Japan.
0-4300 P11 bu

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
were forced to disband and all laborers were integrated into the newly
formed Sangyo Hokoku-kai (Industrial Patriotic Associations) or Sampo,
the Japanese equivalent of the German Labor Front.
B. The Trade Unions before the Labor Front 2/
Although trade union members never comprised more than eight per-
cent of all industrial laborers, the trade union movement was one of the
most hopeful elements in Japanese life. With the exception of some
Fascist and company unions, the trade unions as a group consistently
stood among the most democratic of the myriad Japanese organizations.
In their external policies thoy generally pressed for greater
liberalism and the democratization of Japanese political, social and
economic institutions, and until the latter thirties they were aligned
with that minority of Japanese opinion which condemned imperialist ag-
gression and war. Internally, individual Japanese trade unions were
organized rather democratically, certainly to a degree beyond most
Japanese organizations. However, in the upper levels of labor crganiza-
tion and particularly among the leagues, federations and congresses of
unions, labor o: ficials tended to solidify into bureaucratie cliques,
and to become more responsive to the wishes of the government and the
employers and less sensitive to the wishes of their members.
Except for the maritime unions where diecipline was strict, union
discipline was rather irregular and varied greatly. On occasion poor
discipline resulted in the defeat of trade unions involved in industrial
disputes. Compared to the United States, however, where union disci-
pline is important because it is essential to the observance of collect-
ive bargaining agreements, union discipline in Japan rarely caused
disturbances in peaceful labor relations because collective bargaining
agreements were very few. As a rule, local union autonomy was strong,
and secession of unions from federations and establishment of new af-
filations were frequent. These, however, were usually made on the
basis of political principles rather than immediate economic issues.
1. The Left-Wing Unions
a。
National Council of Japanese Labor Unions (Nippon Rodo
Kumiai Zenkoku Hyogi-kai)
The most efrective left-wing union group which was permitted to
exist in the 1930's was the National Council of Japanese Labor Unions,
known as "Zenkyo" for short, a federation of some 40 unions organised
in 1934 and dissolved in 1937. While its membership never rose above
14,000 in its short lifetime because of ontimuous police obstruction,
its leader Kanju Kato, who had visited the United States in 1935, was
elected to the National Diet as a candidate of the Proletarian Party
0-4800 P12 bu

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
2
-9
(Musan-to). This union was noted for its aggressive activities in at-
tempting to improve working conditions, for its opposition to Japanese
expansion on the continent, for its observance of May Day despite a
police ban, and for its advocacy of a "Popular Front", a phrase later
branded as a "dangerous thought". In December 1937, after the out-
break of the China ar, both the National Council of Japanese Labor
Unions and the Proletarian Party were ordered disbanded, one week
after some 400 of their more prominent members, including Kato, had
been arrested and imprisoned.
b.
General Federation of Japanese Transport Workers
(Nippon Kotsu Rodo Sodomei)
Another left-wing group was the General Federation of Japanese
Transport Workers. It was composed mainly of street-car workers and
bus drivers in the cities of Tokyo, Osaka and Kobe with a membership
of 30,000 in 65 locals. It was affiliated to the moderate Social
Masses Party and published a monthly magazine called the Japan Trans-
port Workers' Journal."After a Tokyo street-car strike was suppressed
in 1937, however,this group abandoned its militant policy in favor of
"industrial cooperation."
2. The Conservative Unions
Almost all of the conservative unions were affiliated to the
Japan Trade Union Congress (Nippon Rodo Kumiai Kaigi), which thereby
represented some 260,000 trade union members or about 62 percent of all
trade union members in 1936. Because the Congress did not partici-
pate in day-to-day collective bargaining it was not as active as its
constituent unions. It served principally as a sounding board for
the broader policies of its affiliated unions. As such it supported
the Social Masses Party (Shakai Taishuto) which, although its parent
organizations had opposed Japanese imperialism, came to approve of
Japanese expansion on the continent.
In 1938, the Policy Committee
of the Trade Union Congress approved the organization of "Sampo" or
the "Labor Front" which was then in the planning stage. The principal
unions which composed the Congress were:
a. All Japan General Federation of Labor (Zen-Nippon Rodo Sodomei)
i. History and General Character This organizattion, which
had 85, 000 members in 1936, dated back to 1912 when it was founded as a
mutual-aid society, called literally the Friendly Love Society (Yuai-kai),
by Bunji Suzuki, a social worker. In 1920, it was reorganized somewhat
along the lines of the American Federation of Labor and called the Japan
General Federation of Labor. In 1932 it was merged with the centrist
National Labor Union Federation (Zenkoku Rodo Kumiai Domei) and received
the name All-Japan General Federation of Labor.
0-4300 P13 bu

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
From 1920 to 1923 the Federation was dominated by left-wingers
and was the center of several large strikes, particularly the Kobe-Osaka
dockyard strikes of 1921. After 1923, however, the Federation grew more
conservative and less aggressive, possible because its membership was
concentrated in the metal and machinery industries whose prosperity
was tied in closely with the rise of heavy industry and the develop-
ment of a war economy. In 1930-1931 it participated in a num-
ber of government-sponsored conferences on social policy. The Federa-
tion, after criticizing the Manchurian adventure for some time, came
finally to support Japanese aggression in China. In 1940 repeated
government warnings that it would be dissolved, it decided to dis-
band. Its members, of course, joined the "Sampo".
ii. Structure Structurally, the General Federation in 1938
consisted principally of two regional federations (East Japan and West
Japan) made up of twelve local federations (e.g., Kyushu, Tokyo, Hyogo,
Aichi, etc.) which in turn were com osed of about one hundred local and/
or industrial unions. Since the General Federation was the result
of numerous mergers and affiliations of independent unions on the different
levels, however, the actual state of organization was not that simple.
For example, five national unions of which only the Steel Workers Union
with 25,000 members was important, were members of the General Federation
but did not belong to any of the regional or local federations. In
like manner some local unions belonged to the regional federations, but
not to the local federations. In all, the 118 unions which were af-
filiated directly or indirectly with the Ceneral Federation had a total
of about 700 locals or an average of about 120 members per local. In
addition to the Steel Workers Union, the Kanto Iron and Steel Union (6,320
members), the Kanto Spinning Workers Union (5,158 members), and the Osaka
Metal Workers Union (9,850 members) were the largest. The General Federa-
tion published two monthlies called "Labor" and "Tomorrow", of which the
first dealth with union matters and the second with cultural topics.
Lii.Union Disciplie and Democracy As may be expected,
discipline of the union members in the Federation varied considerably
with the union. Discipline of the General Federation with respect to
its autonomous member organization wam weak. The few collective bar-
gaining agreements in effect made union discipline somewhat less import-
ant than in some of the western counbries. The history of this Federation
does contain many cases of dissident groups splitting away, but these
splits were largely on political grounds rather than as a matter of dis-
affection with industrial policies or commitments of the union leaders.
The very large number of unions and locals and relatively amall
membership of each unit together with their relative autonomy tended to
insure a marked degree of democracy within the unions. While the top
layer of officials of the General Bederation appears to have assumed the
character of a rather immovable and irresponsive bureaucratic clique,
the officials of the unions, and particularly of the loeals, appear on
the whole to have been responsive to the union membership.
0-4800 P14

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
iv. International and political affiliations. The
General Federation was affiliated throughout almost the entire span
of its existence with the International Federation of Trade Unions
whose headquarters were at Amsterdam. Politically, the Federation,
had sponsored the old Social Democratic Party (Shakai Minshu-to)
and was the prime affiliate of its successor, the Social Masses Party,
which in 1937 polled 900,000 votes and elected 37 members to the Nation-
al Diet. The legislative program of the Federation was generally re-
stricted to the advocacy of social legislation and the legal recogni-
tion of trade unions.
b. Japan Seamen's Union (Nippon Kaiin Kumiai)
i. History and General Character While this union
eventually withdrew from the Japan Trade Union Congress, it is gener-
ally grouped with the Congress Unions. It was founded in 192l under
the sponsorship of the Minister of Communications, the Seamen's De-
partment of the General Federation of Labor and a number of small
Seamen's unions. By 1938, it had attained a membership of 115,000
and had almost completely organized Japan's seamen. Even during the
height of left-wing influence in 1921-1923 the Seamen's Union was
markedly conservative and grew more so as time went on. In 1933,
for example, union funds were used to build a Buddhist Temple and
Hamada, the union president, was installed as head priest. In the
same year the Seamen's Union refused to transport Ford trucks which
they believed destined for Chinese troops then resisting Japanese ag-
gression.
ii. Structure Since it was a union rather than a
federation, the organizational structure of the Japan Seamen's Union
was rather simple. In addition to a central headquarters in Kobe,
in 1938 seventeen branches were maintained in major ports--Yokohama,
Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Nagasaki, Otaru, Tobata, Moji, Fushigi, Habu,
Kawaguchi, Dairen, Hakodate, Muroran, Ushina, Wakamatsu and Omuta.
It published a monthly journal called The Seaman.
iii. Discipline and democracy The Seaman's Union, be-
cause it held a virtual monopoly on maritime labor, because it was
strongly backed by the ship owmers and because it shared in the opera-
tion of the seamen's employment exchanges, was in a good position to
exercise strict discipline over its men and there is little doubt that
it did so. The only major rebellion occurred in 1935 when some 10,000
members split off to form a Fascist union, called the New Japan Sea-
men's Union (Shin Nippon Kaiin Kumiai), but before the end of 1937
they had rejoined the fold. Conversely, there appears condiderable
doubt that democracy was very strong in the Seamen's Union. While the
democratic forms were observed, the immense power over hiring and the
backing of the ship owmers which the union officials used to enforce
discipline, made it difficult in practise for dissident movements
within the union aimed against union officials to succeed. The fifteen-
year tenure of Hamada in the president's office bears partial witness to
this.
0-4300 P15 bu

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-12
iv. International and Political Activities Interna-
nationally, the Seamen's Union was represented at the Marine Labor Con-
ference at Genoa in 1920, but did not participate actively in internation-
al labor union activities after that date. Politically, the Seamen's
Union was affiliated with the Social Masses Party, but was never pro-
minent in that Party's activities.
c. The Mercantile Marine Officers Association (Kaiin Kyokai)
This organization dominated maritime labor together with the
Seamen's Union and, although not a member of the Trade Union Congress,
it worked closely with the Congress. It was founded as far back as
1896 and by 1938 had attained a membership of 16,000 merchant marine
officers. Its headquarters were situated in Kobe and it maintained
ten branches at the larger ports. In general, it had few of the
characteristics of a trade union and engaged in no strikes or aggressive
activity. Like the Seamen's Union, it was affiliated with the Social
Masses Party, and published a monthly first called "The Seamen's Asso-
ciation Magazine" and later renamed "Maritime Management" (Seikai). In
1938 it absorbed the Japan Wireless Operators Society (Nippon Musen
Gishi-kai).
d. Japan Harbor Worker's Union (Nippon Kowan Jugyoin Kumiai)
Founded in 1928, by 1938 this union had a membership of 17,000
in 12 locals. It affiliated with the Social Masses Party and published
a monthly called "The Harbor Worker" (Koju). Its career was rather un-
distinguished, and followed the line of the All Japan Federation of
Labor.
3.
Company Unions
Company unions in Japan often took the form of paternalistic
welfare associations set up by the larger firms for their workers.
Complete data on these welfare associations are lacking, but in 1936,
their membership numbered 530,000 in government factories and 817,000
in private establishments or a total of 1,347,000. While it is im-
possible to separate those whichwere genuinely set up by the workers
from those established by the employer, unlike the trade unions almost
all the societies had the cooperation and support of the employer.
Essentially, they performed the same role as most company unions in
the United States, namely counteracted the influence of the trade
unions. Because of the restricted role of collective bargaining in
Japanese industrial relations and the absence of legal status for
trade unions, the paternalistic welfare associations have seldom
pretended to be trade unions or have even formally competed with
trade unions.
074300 P16 bu

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
4. The Fascist Labor Unions
The Fascist Labor Unions had a rather short existence, roughly
from 1931 to 1938. They were originated by right-wing dissidents
who had seceded from the General Federation and other conservative
unions in 1931 and 1932. In 1936 a merger of some fifteen Fascist
unions produced the National Convention of Patriotic Labor Unions
(Aikoku Rodo Kumiai Zenkoku Konwa-kai). By 1938 the Convention had
a membership of 80,000, including some 124 unions, mostly small,
a large number of which were company unions. So far as can be dis-
covered, the activity of these unions was quite small with regard to
improving wages, hours and working conditions and was confined instead
to ardent support for "Japanism", military imperialism and national
socialism, in pursuance of which these Fascist labor unions were af-
filiated with the reactionary "Japan Reform Party", (Nippon Kakushin-
to), better known as the Japan Industrial Party. During their brief
existence the Fascist trade unions denied the advisability of trade
unionism and quickly dissolyed when the "Sampo" or Labor Front was
originated.
C. Organizations Opposed to Trade Unions
In addition to the pseudo-unions which have been described
above, three types of unofficial organizations devoted a large part of
their efforts to combatting the growth of free trade unions:
1. The Patriotic Societies
These nationalistic and aggressively imperialistic societies,
in the course of their intensive propaganda and assassination campaigns
against any liberal and democratic ideas, found themselves in violent
conflict with trade unions from the beginning. While their members and
officials were not usually businessmen, a large part of their financial
resources was derived from the contributions of big industrialists.
Some were little more than gangs of toughs, while others were well or-
ganized and highly respected, as for example the Ex-servicemen's League.
Typical organizations, such as the League for State Construction
(Kenkoku-tai) and the Great Japan League of Justice (Dai Nippon
Seigi-dan), participated directly in breaking up strikes and trade
union meetings with violence. In addition, during the 'thirties
these patriotic societies sponsored fascist-type trade unions and
succeeded in drawing many workers out of the genuine trade unions.
2.
Industrial Associations
Among the most powerful of the industrial associations which
were organized by employers in order to protect their interests against
the activities of labor were the Japan and Osaka Industrial Clubs (Nippon
Kogyo Kurabu and Osaka Kogyo Kurabu). In 1923 representatives of
42 industrial associations met and established the National Federation
G-4300 P17 bu

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
of Industrial Organizations (Zenkoku Sangyo Dantai Rengokai). Its main
objective was to combat the growing influence of the labor movement
and to unite the large employers against the trade unions. Its program
was the promotion of "class harmony", the maintenance of the family
system, "protection" of small industries, development of company union-
ism and employer-dominated welfare associations, and the elevation of
the "moral and living standards" of workers.
These societies which were established to preach "class collabor-
ation" in opposition to Harxist "class conflict" were theoretically open
equally to employers and laborers, but were in fact composed almost en-
tirely of employers. By far the most prominent of.this type was the
Harmonization Society (Kyocho-kai). Alarmed by the rise of labor dis-
putes just after the First World War, a Conmission for Social Services
sponsored by the Department of Home Affairs recormended the setting up
of a non-official organization which would help to "end the bitter anta-
gonism between employers and employees." On 22 December, 1919, the
Harmonization Society was incorporated for the purpose of studying means
of bringing capital and labor together. From the beginning the govern-
ing body of the Harmonization Society was controlled by representatives
of big industry.
Heading it were Prince Tokugawa and Viscount Shibu-
sawa, and amoung its directors were Inoue, president of the Bank of Japan,
Wada of the Fuji Spinning Company, and Muto of the Kanegafuchi Spinning
Company. The Harmonization Society never attracted an appreciable labor
following. in view of its official personnel. While it offered its ser-
vices freely to arbitrate strikes, it was rarely accepted by trade unions,
and finally restricted its activities to conciliating disputes involving
unorganized workers, publishing journals of "information" and distribut-
ing harmonization propaganda. Perhaps its most effectual achievement
was its sponsorship of the "Labor Front."
D.The Labor Front
Industrial relations at the present time are handled almost
entirely by the Industrial Patriotic Associations(Sangyo Hokoku-kai)
organized into a national federation and commonly known as "Sampo".
In essentials, "Sampo" is analogous to the Gernan Labor Front. "Sampo"
is not a trade union and is not designed to assist the workers to im-
prove their economic status. It is, instead, designed to regiment
labor to the service of the state and the employer.
1.
History
"Sampo" was originated when the Harmonization Society in
February 1938 established the Industrial Patriotic Leugue (Sangyo
Hokoku Remmei), a group agitating for the organization of patriotic
associations in the factories which would press for the cooperation
of capital and labor to prosecute the China War. Its leaders in-
cluded representatives of the Social Masses' Party (Shakai Taisshu-to
and leading industrialists of the National Federation of Industrial
Associations.
0-4300 P18 bu

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
In 1939 the government officially sponsored the Patriotic Associations
(Sangyo Hokoku-kai) in the factories and the initiating organization (the
Sangyo Hokoku Remmei) became a propaganda arm of the government. By June
1939, there were 4,657 associations with 1,691,446 members in plants with
50 or more workers. In August 1940 the government officially took over
direction of the associations, and placed them under the Labor Policy Divi-
sion of the Labor Bureau in the Ministry of Public Welfare. All labor
organizations which had not already become merged with the associations
were liquidated. By March 1941, some 70,000 associations had been es-
tablished with a membership of over 5,000,000. In 1942, the direction
of"Sampo" was turned over to the totalitarian political party, the Im-
perial Rule Assistance Association, which in April 1945 was dissolved.
It is not known precisely who directs "Sampo" at present, but it is be-
lieved to have been placed under the Civillan Volunteer Corps.
2.
Structure
The basic unit of the "Sampo" is the association in the individual
industrial establishment. Generally speaking, there is ane association for
each enterprise. All people connected with the enterprise, i.e., managers,
engineers, clerks and workers are eligible to join, and the proprietor
or factory manager is usually the president of the association. Member
ship is maintained by indirect compulsion, the prefectural governors be-
ing held responsible for seeing to it that every establishment with 50
workers or more has an association.
On a local level, the district police control all the associations
within the district. The individual associations are combined into
federations on a prefectural level with administrative responsibility
placed on the prefectural governor. The prefectural associations belong
to the national federation (Dai Nippon Sangyo Hokoku-kai) which was es-
tablished in 1940. The Minister of Welfare was the ex-officio national
president up until the time "Sampo" was placed under the IRAA; it is
not known whether this has been changed. Its direction by the IRAA
appears to have been exercised through one of the two departments of the
IRAA which dealt with labor, the "Organization Depart: ent", which was in
charge of labor supply, or the "Increased Munitions Production Department",
which had charge of labor questions. The central committee of "Sempo"
is composed of heads of big business concerns. No pretense of labor
representation is made.
3.
Functions
"Sampo" has three general functions: to convey the illusion that
laborers and employers are united in service to the state and prosecution
of the war, to mobilize and regiment laborers for purposes of war pro-
duction, and to act as a safety valve by adjusting labor grievances.
The first function is carried out by meand of voluninous prcpa-
ganda asserting (a) that assistance to the Emperor is pararount and (b)
that each industrial enterprise is a family. The activities carricd on
G-4300 P19 bu

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
along this line consist of spiritual solidarity meetings, measures to in-
crease industrial efficiency, cooperation with special national activi-
ties (e.g., the recovery of waste materials, air raid drills, purchase of
national bonds) and round table conferences to promote worker-employer
understanding. The mobilization of labor by "Sampo" for war production
is centered in disciplinary activities in the factories and in its In-
dustrial Patriotic Service Corps which recruited temporarily unemployed
workers for war jobs. Finally the association brings minor grievances
to the attention of the employer, carries on certain welfare activities
and makes unemployment relief payments for workers in factories closed
down because of the war.
E. Militarization of Labor
The work of "Sampo" in supplanting and thereby preventing free
trade unionism was reinforced by the Factory and Workshop Supervision
Ordinance (Kojo Jigyo Kanri-rei) of March 18, 1944. In accordance
with this ordinance, which was applied in September 1944, labor in "vital
factories" and mines is placed under the control of a Munitions Manage-
ment Office in the Munitions Ministry. All workers in selected war
plants and in about 200 mines are ranked in accordance with a system
of military ranks, with the lower saluting the higher. Discipline
is on the military model and the shop foreman have almost unlimited
disciplinary powers. The president of the company or manager of the
plant is called the production leader (seisan sekininsha) and is given
full control of all labor questions in the plant. (For further details
see Civil Affairs Guide on Working Conditions other than Wages and
Hours in Japan).
F. Political Activities of Labor
Ever since 1925, Japanese trade unions have been deeply involved in
political action through formal affiliations with political parties. In
1937, the labor parties succeeded in electing 42 members to the Diet and
polling a million votes or almost one-tenth of the total vote of a little
more than ten million. (See Section II above and Civil Affairs Guide
on Political Parties for further details). With the dissolution of the
political parties and the establishment of the Imperial Rule Assistance
Association, however, all legal political activity of labor ceased.
G-4300 P20 bu

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
III. THE PATTERN OF JAPANESE INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
A. Paternalistic Tradition
Paternalism in industrial relations has been particularly strong in
Japan because of the special cohesiveness of the Japanese family system,
the paternalistic attitude of the government in general, and the recent
memory of feudal master craftsman - apprentice relationship which per-
sisted in a large number of establishments even up to the Pacific War.
This natural strength of the paternalistic tradition has been constantly
fortified by propaganda on the part of the employers and the government
in a consistent effort to counteract free labor organizations. This
paternalism was expressed concretely in the dormitory system which among
other things, prevented labor organization and contact with liberal thoughts;
in welfare services which enabled the employer to pay lower wages; and
in the family workshop to which much work was subcontracted and in which
long hours and low wages were especially prevalent. It was particular-
ly evident in the failure to institute a system of genuine unemployment
insurance and in reliance instead on discharge allowances granted by the
employer and on the willingness and ability of rural relatives to care
for the unemployed worker. Less concretely the paternalistic tradition
resulted in a feeling of ference towards the employer, and a stigma
of ingratitude placed on anyone who dared strike or otherwise dispute
the authority of the employer. Paternalism in industrial relations
was finally given legal effect in the organizational structure of
"Sampo" or the labor front, where the employer or plant manager
was generally made the association leader.
Indications are clear, however, that paternalism was swiftly losing
its force among the workers as an accepted mode of industrial relations
before the China War. This was particularly evident during the depression
of 1929-32 when at the cost of numerous strikes many firms shirked their
paternalistic responsibilities, e.g., the practice of discharging permanent
employees and rehiring them as "temporary employees to avoid giving
various welfare allowances. It is quite likely that the economic
changes occasioned by the war, particularly military and labor conscription,
demobilization and large scale job shifting, resulting in the dissolution
of individual employer-employee paternal relationship, have already
weakened and will further weaken paternalism.
B. Police Interference with Trade Unions
In addition to paternalism, the government and the employers have
leaned heavily on repressive laws ana the use of police power as a de-
vice to obstruct the free development of trade unions. Deriving their
powers from a series of sweeping laws, ordinances and regulations, be-
tween 1920 and 1938, the Japanese police arrested more than 60,000 per-
sons suspected of "radical" activities or thoughts, dissolved numerous
0-4300 P21 bu

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
trade unions and bmke up hundreds of trade union meetings. With the
advent of the China War in 1937 a new wave of terror was unleashed;
more than 2,O00 leftist labor leaders, including Kanju Kato, were
arrested between Novenber 1937 and February 1938. Since 1941 the
terror has been still further intensified.
1。
The Peace Preservation Law (Jian Iji-ho)
The Peace Preservation Law, the current version of which was passed
in l94l, provides the overall blanket authority by means of which the
police have been able to obstruct free trade union organization. This
law was first passed in l925 and succeeded the notorious Section 17 of
the Public Peace Police Act of 1900. The latter had in very broad terms
forbidden strikes, picketing, and the normal forms of union recruitment,
and was repealed in 1926. Under the Peace Preservation Law of 1941 the
death penalty is provided for officials or leaders of associations
which advocate changing the "national polity" (Kokutai), or of asso-
ciations which prepare for or which assist associations advocating
changing the national polity. Needless to say, no precise definition
of "national polity" has ever been arrived at; in general, anything
opposed to the "Japanese spirit" of obedience to authority may be con-
strued as contrary to the "national polity." In addition, penal
servitude terms of varying lengths are provided for convoking meetings,
discussing or instigating actions, propagandizing, creating confusion and
disorderly conduct, and soliciting, contributing or receiving money
all with the object of changing the "national polity". Somewhat
lighter terms are provided for organizing associations or related
activities for the purpose of "disavowing" the "national polity", spread-
ing disrespect for the Shinto Shrines and the Imperial Household, and
"disavowing" the private property system. Curiously enough, the Peace
Preservation Law pretends to apply to all persons of whatever nationality,
and to all prohibited activities no matter where in the world committed.
2.
Protective Surveillance for Thought Offenses Law (Shiso-han
Hogo Kansatsu-ho)
The Peace Preservation Law is carried even further by this act of
1936 and regulations pursuant thereto which impose a close two-year
surveillance on anyone who receives a suspended sentence on charges of
violating the Peace Preservation Law or who has completed a sentence
imposed for violation of the Peace Pregervation Law. By meand of this
law the place of residence of labor leaders may be restricted, and their
friends and their correspondence closely watched or prahibited.
3.
National Mobilization Law (Kokka Sodoin-ho)
Sweeping wartime powers over the entire Japanese economy were
granted the Japanese government by the National Mobilization Act of 1938,
amended in 194l. Certain articles give the government special wartime
powers, even beyond those utilized in the Peace Preservation Law, to
0-4300 P22 bu

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
control and break up trade unions. Subject to application by Imperial
Ordinance, Article 4 provides for labor conscription, Article 6 gives
the government power to prescribe wage rates and working conditions, and
Article 7 gives the government authority to prevent or settle, by any
maans, labor disputes and lockouts, and to suspend or alter any other
laws in so doing.
4. Public Peace Police Law (Jian Keisatsu-ho)
The provisions of the Public Police Law with regard to public
meetings have also been used repeatedly to break up trade union meetings.
Up until 194l, and in accordance with the Pablic Peace Police Act, trade
union meetings could be disbanded by the police after they had been
formally opened, but on December 18, 194l a Special Emergency Law
(Horitsu No.97 of Dec. 18, 194l) requiring pernits in advance was enacted.
Further legislation since then prohibits unlicensed public meetings for
whatever purpose, if more than 3 persons attend.
5.
Police Crimes Punishments Ordinance (Keisatsu-han Shobatsu-rei)
Certain proviaions of this Home Ministry Ordinance of 1900, re.
vised in 1908 and 1919,have been consistently interpreted to hamper
union recruitment, to prevent picketing and break up strikes. They
include penalties for walking back and forth in places where one does
not reside and has no business, for forcibly requesting an interview
or following another threateningly, for obstructing a person's movements
by forcibly standing in front of him or beside him, or for conmitting
mischief with regard to another person's business.
6.
Repressive Police Agencies
Police activities in Japan are so widespread that points of con-
tact with trade unions are numerous. (See Civil Affairs Handbook,
Japan, Section 14: Public Safety) . Aside from the individual policeman
who enforces all the laws, including those repressing trade unions and
collective bargaining, there are a number of police and prosecuting
agencies which have spedially obstructed free labor organizations.
These are:
a. The Special Higher Police (Tokubetsu Koto Keisatsu) sometimes
referred to as the "ideational police." This organization has been
specially charged with the enforcement of the Peace Preservation Laws,
and has been responsible for arresting tens of thousands of persons,
including numerous trade union and labor leaders, on the grounds that
they disavowed or conspired to change the "national polity" or the pri-
vate property system. Admiristratively the Special Higher Police are
directed by the Peace Preservation Section (Hoan-ka) of the Police Bureau
(Keiho-kyoku) of the Home Ministry. In actuality, the greatest share
of their work is performed by the Special Higher Police Division (Toku-
betsu Koto Keisatsu-bu) of the Metropolitan Police Board (Keishi-cho).
In addition, each of the prefectural governments, with the exception
G-4300 P23 bu

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-20
of Kyoto, has a Special Higher Police.
b. The Peace Preservation Police (Hoan Keisatsu) This
organization has had as a part of its duties, the regulation of public
meetings, the adjustment of labor disputes and the enforcement of the
Factory and Mining Acts. In these capacities it has broken strikes
and dissolved labor meetings. Up until quite recently it was one of the
most important parts of the Metropolitan Police Board, and in addition
had separate existence in several of the prefectures, but no separate
direction in the national police bureau. An unconfirmed report of 1944
indicates that it has been abolished, and that its functions have
been assigned among other police organizations.
c. The ilitary Police or Cengarmerie (Kempei). Prior to
the Pacific War, the Military Police had no special anti-labor functions,
but recently captured orders indicate that the Military Police are to keep
in close touch with the authorities of military production plants and
to gather accurate information concerning the organization of labor uni. s,
thoughts of employees, labor agitation, the speech, behavior and outside
contacts of dissatisfied workers, etc. In addition,the military police
have been authorized to use force to suppress disputes and stop the
spreading of propaganda.
d. The Thought Section (Shiso-ka) of the Criminal Affairs
Bureau (Keiji-kyoku) in the Ministry of Justice has handled prosecu-
tions under the Peace Preservation Laws.
C. Disputes and Strikes
Despite the paternalistic tradition and police repression, strikes
have long been a part of the Japanese industrial scene. The earliest
strike in Japan took place as far back as 1872, and as early as 1907
troops had to be called in to suppress a particularly violent strike in the
Ashio and Besshi copper mines. The great dockyard strike of l92l in-
volved 30,o00 participants for one month and was finally suppressed with
the aid of saber-wielding police. Recurrent strikes which, according
to official statistics (and therefore probably underestimated), involved
from 30,000 to 125,000 workers per year, took place in the 'thirties.
Generally speaking, because of the poor bargaining position of
workers as well as their meager resources and constant police inter-
ference on the side of the employer, Japanese strikes have been of
short duration and have resulted in defeat or compromise for the workers.
Because of police repression they have often taken unique forms, e.g.,
shrine processions and slow downs. With the growing conservatism on
the part of the labor union leaders and their disinclination to embroil
themselves with the police, the trade union role as a apearhead of
strikes was greatly curtailed and disaffected laborers resorted to
strikes without union assistance. By 1938 unions were involved in
0-4800 P26bu

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
only 13 percent of all strikes as compared to 71 percent in 1931.
Labor activity as revealed in strikes has not been halted by the war.
On the contrary, even though a temporary decline was brought about by the
opening of the China War, strikes in 1939 were more numerous than in
1938. The fragmentary evidence that has been allowed to come out of
Japan since 1940 indicated that an active underground leadership of
Japanese labor has continued into the year's of war. On March 5, 1941,
a big strike involving l00,000 workers was reported to have broken
out in the Kobe war industries. According to the report, the strike
covered the big war plants of the fitsubishi and the Kawasaki dockyards
and continued for five days, ending when troops suppressed the strike
and shot four of the leaders. In August a strike of 20,o00 workers
was reported in the Mitsubishi airplane plant at Nagoya, but it was
also suppressed. A smaller strike of 3,0oo0 workers at the Kokura Ar
senal occurred in September where the police apparently found it ex-
pedient not to make reprisals. In October of 194l, a big strike
which involved joint action by industrial workers and salaried em-
ployees, was alleged to have taken place in the heavy industrial center
of Tsurumi in Yokohama with over 20,000 workers participating. Though
for later years the evidence is still more fragmentary, smaller strikes
have been reported frequently. Although not strictly trade union in
nature, a general feeling of labor disaffection was indicated as late as
1944 by food riots reported in Kagoshima and a mass meeting of 40,000
persons in Tokyo, which according to the Osaka Mainichi quoted in
Chungking, was sponsored by a new Workers Party. The meeting was broken
up by the police, and the party was disbanded.
D. Collective bargaining, shop committees and mechanisms
for settling Capital-Labor disputes
1.
Collective Bargaining
Partly bacause of the poor legal status of the unions, collective
bargaining has played a relatively insignificant role in Japanese
labor relations. Only in the case of the seamen's unions have col-
lective bargaining agreements been of significance. Of the 136,000
workers covered in 122 collective bargaining agreements at the end of
March 1936, seamen accounted for 117,000. Aside from the Seamen's
Union agreement with the ship owners,and the collective agreement be-
tween Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Company and the All-Japan Ceneral
Federation of Labor, almost all agreements were in the smaller enter-
prises, i.θ., less chan 500 workers.
2。
Shop Committees
Shop committees, sometimes called "works committees, have
also been comparatively unimportant in the pattern of Japanese in-
dustrial relations. During the early years immediately after the
First World War, the trade unions evinced considerable interest in the
establishment of employer-employee committees which would settle intre
plant grievances. However, the shop committees which included repre-
G-4300 P25 bu

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
sentatives of the trade unions found it difficult to get a hearing from
the employers, while those committees which had access to the employer
usually refused to recognize the existence of the trade unions. When
the Japanese Government Railways and the Harmonization Society became
active advocates of shop committees, it became plain that shop committees
were being utilized as a device to counteract the growth of the trade
unions, and labor leaders lost interest in them. By 1929, there were
112 shop committees in Japan, covering almost 320,000 workers, but they
were comparatively inactive and were usually dominated by the employer.
Little was heard of shop committees in the thirties and they are now
believed to have been absorbed into "Sampo" While the organization of
shop committees has been generally approved by the Japanese trade unions
in theory, the existence of shop comnittees in fact has been regarded
with deep suspicion.
3. Mechanisms for Settling Capitat-Labor Disputes
In general, mechanisms for settling industrial disputes in Japan,
prior to "Sampo" and the prohibition of strikes, consisted of ad hoc
arrangements by certain officials and semi-official agencies concerned
with keeping the public peace and maintaining production. As a rule,
these agencies shared the strong bias of the government in favor of the
employer and against the worker, particularly during the latter 'thirties
when any stoppage of production interfered with the development of
Japan's military power. The increasing trend towards the maintenance of
industrial peace at labor's expense is indicated by the sharp increase
in the percentage of police intervention in arbitration of labor-capital
disputes from 27 percent in 1931 to:71 percent in 1938, 89 percent in
1939 and 94 percent in the first nine months of 1940 as showm by
partial statistics (Appendix C). By 1939 labor disputes were almost
all considered by the government to be infractions of the peace and
strikes to be tantamount to treason.
a. Arbitration Boards
Arbitration Boards were the only overall instrument established
by Japanese law for the specific purpose of settling labor-capital dis-
putes by mutual adjustment, but available records show that they were
utilized in only four disputes in fourteen years.
According to the
Labor Disputes Adjustment Act (Rodo Sogi Chotei-ho) of 1926, in the case
of a dispute in public utilities or government enterprises, arbitration
was to be compulsory; in all other cases, arbitration was to be invoked
at the request of both parties. With certain exceptions, administration
was placed in the hands of the prefectural governors, and later shifted
to arbitration officials of the Bureau of Social Welfare of the Home
Department, which bureau subsequently became the Department of Welfare.
Each Arbitration Board was to consist of three representatives of each
of the parties to the disputes who were to agree on the selection of three
0-4900 P24 bu

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
additional members. These boards were given investigatory powers and
were committed to secrecy. Decisions were not binding, but in case
of failure to settle the dispute the boards' decision, together with
the minority report, was to be made public. However, for diverse
reasons the boards were hardly ever invoked.
b. Department of Welfare Arbitration Officials
With the establishment of the Bureau of Social Welfare in the Home
Department in 1922, a mumber of arbitration officials (choteikan) were
appointed in various localities, and their number was increased when the
Labor Disputes Adjustment Act was passed in 1926. When the Department
of Welfare was set up in January l938, these officials were transferred
to it. Arbitration by these officials was usually voluntary and had
some measure of success, but in the course of the ithirties they came
to be supplanted by the police.
c. Police Arbitration
From the standpoint of preserving peace, the police have always
been authorized to deal with labor disputes and during the 'thirties their
intervention in disputes became increasingly frequent until in 1939
89 percent of all disputes settled by "arbitration" were the result of
police action. The prefectural and metropolitan police headquarters have
special police officers in charge of labor relations attached to the
Factory Section of the Peace Preservation Police. (For organizational
structure of Japanese Police System see Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan, Sec-
tion 14: Public Safety). As indicated above, police actions in disputes
were usually biased in favor of the employer, and police "arbitration"
was almost always expected to insure the defeat of the laborers.
d. Joint Maritime Board (Haiji Kyodo-kai)
In disputes involving seamen the Joint Maritime Board had legal
authority to effect conciliation. This  oard was set up at the end of
1926 with headquarters in Kobe ana consisted of 3 rapresentatives of the
Seamen's Union, 3 representatives of the Vercantile Marine Officers Asso-
ciation and 6 representatives of the shipomers. In accordance with the
Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926, the Minister of Communications was
empowered to set up special arbitration boarus in aisutes involving
seamen, but in practice they were never convokad and the Joint Maritime
Board has had a monopoly on conciliating labor disputes. It set-
tled the ssanen's strike of l)23 by the aacption of minimum wage rates
and prevented a strike in January 1931. It was sonewhat Less successful
in 1935 in dealing with the strike of the Hew Sewnen's Union, which was
not represented on the Board.
Special regulations regarling maritime strikes have been in-
posed by Article 41 of the Seamen's Act of august 13, 1937 ani the minis-
terial ordinance purs:ant thereto. The Minister of Conmunications
G-4300 P27 bu

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
or his nominees were empowered to institute conciliation procedures
without requestafrom either side. In addition, imprisonment up to
one year or a five-hundred yen fine were imposed for work stoppages
in port which incurred in the course of a collective dispute without
24 hours notice or within a week after the beginning of collective
bargaining negotiations.
e.
Other Mechanisms
The unofficial Harmonization Society, as indicated above, has
regularly offered its services to both sides to settle industrial dis-
putes, but has usually withdrawm from difficult cases. In general, it
has been distrusted by the trade unions with the result that its efforts
have been confined to cases in which unorganized labor was involved.
Local and prefectural officials, particularly prefectural govern-
ors, have occasionally offered their services or have been invited to
act as impartial mediators.
Their record of success has not been out-
standing.
0-4300 P3a bu

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-25 -
IV. PROGRAM FOR MILITARY GOVERNMENT
A. Conditions likely to Confront Military Government
Upon its occupation of Japan or any major part thereof, Military
Government will be confronted with an industrial population which, be-
cause it will be in bad economic circumstances, will be compelled to
seek adjustments in its terms of employment. It is expected that in
the course of their demands for adjustments, the Japanese laborers
will tend to form organizations to represent them in dealing with the
employer and that numerous disputes will arise, some of which will
be attended by strikes or lockouts.
1. Poor economic position of the Jananese worker
In pre-wer "normal" years, partly as a result of a consistent
government bias in favor of the employer, the standard of living of the
Japanese worker with few exemptions vas low and, even taking into account
the difference in the Oriental manner of living, was not very far above
the subsistence level. At the termination of hostilities, the economic
position of the Japanese laborers will have deteriorated to a consi-
derable extent because of (a) the cumulative effect of diverting en
ever larger share of the national product to munitions of war, an effect
which hes been apparent in the lowered consumption standards of Japan-
ese laborers in the last few years (b) the extreme strain pleced on
the Japanese economy by the la:t few months of a disastrous war and
the enormous destruction inflicted by air-raids, (c) widespread unem-
ployment and a sudden reduction in working hours accompanied by a
sudden decline in earnings end (d) the probability that workers' savings
will be largely frozen in unredeemable war bonds.
It may further be anticipated that the existing terms of employ-
ment tad as they will be upon the termination of hostilities, will
probably grow progressively worse for some time thereafter. It is
probable that a number of employers will take advantage of the sur-
plus labor merket (which will undoubtediy accompany the shut-dovm of
war production) to reduce labor costs through such devices as evading
payment of dismissal allowences, cutting wages, etc. rurthermore, if
inflation takes place to any degree, s may be expected, it is quite
probable that continual rises in the prices of the necessities of life
will far outstrip increases in wages. (See Civil Affairs Guide on the
Control of Inflation in Japan).
0-6800 P2e D0

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
- 26 -
2. Probable Rise of Trade Uniong
Under such conditions it is clear that throughout the occupetion
period, Japenese laborers will in many cases be compelled to seek ad-
justment in their terms of employment. In view of their poor indivi-
dual bargaining position, and on the basis of pre-war trade union
history and the reported war-time underground labor activity, it may
be anticipated that many of the Japanese laborers will organize them-
selves in order to present demands for such adjustments more effectively.
The trade unions which will arise as e result may be expected to concern
themselves primarily with collective bergaining for better wages, hours
and working conditions, and secondarily with mutuel economic protection.
Aside from these strictly trade union functions, some other union
activities may be expected. For example, the close connections of trade
unions with labor parties in the past may be expected to result in
a certain amount of activity along the lines of politicel education and
agitation. Such activities are beyond the scope of this Guide. (For
political activities of labor unions, see Civil Affaire Guide on Polit-
1cal Parties in Japan).
3. Dierutee end Strikee
The expected labor demands for adjustments in wages, hours and work-
ing conditions together with the attempts of the employers to drive down
labor costs may lead to numeroue labor disputes. Such disputes will
aleo be stimulated by the general feeling of sociel unrest which will
prevail and by the unwillingress on the part of labor to submit to em-
ployer pressure as easily as heretofore. On the other hand, the gener-
al economic situation will be unfavorable to the labcrer and the mass
unemployment which will undoubtedly exist will prove to be a powerful
deterrent to the use of strikes to win disputes. In general, it may be
expected that strikers without serious justification will be fow, and thet
a general wave of walkouts will not take place.
B. Concern of Militery Government with Industrial Relations
In the relations between capital and labor which will prevail
during occupation, Military Government will have two primary concerns:
(1) to establish conditions favoreble to the emergence of democratic
organizations and idess and (2) to ensure the contimued operation of
industries and services essentisl to military operations and security.
C. Recommended General Courses of Action for Militery Government
To obtain the objective of a democratic and orderly system of
labor-capitel relations within the limits imposed by militery security,
Militery Government will find it desirable to apply the following
0-4900 P30 Du

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
general principles with regard to trade unions and collective bargaining:
1. Military Government should permit and look with favor upon the free
organization of democraticelly organized and managed trade unions and
should remove all legel obstacles to such organization.
In addition to affording a meens for the democratic expression of
the laborers' opinion on matters that vitally effect them, such a
policy would tend to induce that important segment of the laboring
population which belonged to unions less than ten years ago to cooper-
ate with iilitary Government and would strengthen the elements in
Japan which were among the most consistent end effective advocates
of democracy in the past.
2. Military Government should encourage collective bargaining between
freely chosen representatives of tre employees on the one hand and em-
ployers on the other for adjustment of wages. hours and working condi-
tionB.
Such collective bergaining can introduce an element of stability
into labor-capital reletions, particulerly if it results in collectively
bargaining agreements enforced by union discipline. Under economic
conditions which will prevail the individual Japanese worker will have
virtuelly no bergaining power by himself and will be compelled to bar-
gain collectively to improve his terms of employment.
3. Military Government should seek to reduce the number of industrial
disputes particularly strikes and lockouts.
Since disputes will not affect Militery Government interests and
since personnel will be limited, it will be to the interest of Mili-
tary Government to ignore most individuel strikes and lockouts. How-
ever, a large number of industrial disputes may provide a potentiel
threat to the maintenance of peace and order, and it will therefore
probably be to the interest of Militery Government to assist in the
establishment of agencies designed to settle industriel disputes.
4. Military Government should prohibit strikes and lockouts in
industries considered essential to military operations or the security
of Militery Government.
Under no circumstances should any stoppage of this sort resulting
0-4800 P91u

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
from a breakdown in labor relations be permitted.
D. Recommended Program for Military Government
In order to apply these principles, the following program is
recommended for action:
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
a. Proclamation of general policy towards trade unions
As soon as it is practicable, Military Government should issue
a general proclamation recognizing the freedom of industrial and agri-
cultural workers to join trade unions or other organizations of their
owm choice for purposes of improving their terms of employment and
mutual protection.
Such a proclamation would serve the double purpose of stimulat-
ing the voluntary organization of workers along democratic lines and of
laying the basis for subsequent action against those who would obstruct
such organization. In view of the attractiveness which free organiza-
tions have had for an important segment of the industrial labor popula-
tion, such a proclamation may very well have great value in inducing the
cooperation of Japanese labor with Military Government.
It should be made clear, however, that the freedom or organize
granted by this proclamation does not extend to organizations set up
for purposes other than the legitimate trade union functions indicated
above, and that organization for other purposes would be covered by
other Military Government proclamations, orders, and regulations.
Specifically, labor associations of any kind operated for militaristic
or nationalistic purposes should be prohibited.
b. Freedom of Speech
The freedom to organize and bargain collectively implies
the freedom of speech. Therefore, access to public channels of in-
formation and opinion such as the radio and press, should be granted on
a non-discriminatory basis to trade unions as long as the exercise
of such freedom is in accord with military security.
c. Abrogation of Repressive Legislation
Military Government should abrogate as soon as possible all
laws which prevent or have the effect of preventing (1) the free organ-
ization of trade unions for the purposes of improving wages, hours and
0-4800 P83 u

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
- 29 -
working conditions and mutual assistance and (2) activities of trade
unions, which are otherwise legitimate, directed to those ends.
Ordinances, regulations, announcements and orders which have
been utilized to obstruct trade union organizations and activity are
numerous and permeate all of Japanese life. It will be impossible to.
abrogate all of the detailed rules on verious levels, but almost all
of these regulations and the ections teken pursuant thereto derive their
authorization from a relatively smell number of laws which if abrogeted
would have the effect of nullifyilg all of the detailed rules and agen-
cies set up to enforce them. On the other hand, failure to abrogate
these lews would either nullify Militery Government policy towards
the free organization of trade unions or would create doubt in the ub-
lic mind that the freedom to organize would be protected by Militery
Government.
The lews vhich are spccifically recommended for immediate
abrogetion, together with any subsequent amendments, are: (See Appendix
D for text)
i. Peace Preservation Law (Jian Ij1-ho) of 1941
This is the basic iaw tirough which tens of thousands
of persons have been inprisoned or "dangerous thoughts" and from which
the special hicher police or "i entional police" drav much of their
authority. Its continued existence ould make trade union organization
impossible.
ii. Protective Surveillence for Thought Offenses Law (Shiso-
han Hogo Kensetsu-ho) end the Remuletions Relative to the Protective
Surveillance for Thou ht Offenses Law (Shiso-han Hogo Kansatsu-ho ni
kansuru kisoku), both of 1936.
iii. Articles 4, 6 and 7 o o  ionel lobilization Act
(Kokka Sodoin-ho) of 1938 as revisea in 1941.
These articles provice blanket wartime authority for the
government to take any etion at ell to breek strikes, fix wages and
disband unions. Even thouah theity ranted is emergency wartime
power, it vould be best to sbre ate the articles altogether rather than
declare the lew inoperstive.
iv. Articles 3 end 3 of the Puulic Peace Police Law (Jian
Keisetsu-ho) of 1900 as anended 1n 1922, 19.6, and 1941.
Many of he provisions of this lew will probably be sus-
pended if not abrogated alto ether y the Military Government in connect-
ion with its ceneral policy towards political groups. However, the above
0-4300 P35 bu

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
- 30 -
mentioned articles, which give the police blanket authority to pro-
hibit or disperse any meetings on the grounds of maintaining publio
order, have been used repeatedly to break up union meetings and are,
therefore, recommended for abrogation in this Guide. It should be added
that if the provisions regarding political meetings are not abrogated by
Military Government, the term "political affairs" (seiji) as used elee-
where in this law should not be construed to include trade union acti-
vities.
v. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1 and Paragraphs 5 and
31 of Article 2 of the Police Crimes Punishments Ordinance (Keisatsu-han
Shobatsu-rei) of 1908, as amended in 1919.
These provisions have been specifically applied to prevent
picketing, and should be repealed. The remaining provisions of the law
are entirely adequate to maintain publio order.
vi. The Factory and Workshop Supervision Ordinance (Kojo Jigyo
Kanri-re1) of March 18. 1944.
It is not known whether the legal authority for this or-
dinance is conveyed by the National Mobilization Law. If so, its repeal
will automatically follow that of the National Mobilization Law. If
not, it will be necessary to repeal this ordinance separately.
d. Release of labor prisoners
All persons who have been imprisoned under the foregoing
laws for activity or "thought" in connection with trade unions and other
labor organizations should be released at once.
The speed with which such release is effected is likely to exert
considerable influence in inducing the active cooperation with Military
Government of former trade union members and a large portion of the
industrial labor population.
0-4800 P34 bu

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
Dissolution of "Sampo" and associated organizations
The Industrial Patriotic Associations ("Sampo") and
associated organizations should be diasolved.
"Sampo" was created primarily for the purpose of destroying the
free trade union movement, and its entire organizational structure
is designed to pravent democratic labor organization and collective
bargaining. It has been an important cog in the Japanese totalitarian
war effort and its leaders, who are neither laborers nor representatives
of labor, have been among the most violent partisans of Japanese ag-
gression and war. If not dissolved,"Sampo"would be a menace to the se-
curity of Military Government and to ontinued military operations.
Associated organizations which are equally detrimental to the
objectives of democratic labor relations and military security and
which should, therefore, also be dissolved are:
i. The successor agencies to the labor sections in the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association (See also Civil Affairs Guide on
Political Parties) which direct the activities of "Sampo".
ii. The Harmonization Society, which spondored "Sampo".
iii. The "patriotic" societies which supported "Sampo"
actively. While these societies will be treated more fully in other
Guides, special reference is made to the "patriotic" societies in
this Guide because of their record of anti-labor violence. Their con-
tinued existence would be a serious obstacle in many parts of Japan
to the free organization of trade unions.
2.
Collective Bargaining
a. As soon as democratically organized and governed unions
are formed, they should be permitted to bargain collectively with em-
ployers regarding terms of employment, subject to such policies on wages,
and hours as are established by Military Government authorities. (See
Civil Affairs Guides on Control of Wages and Hours in Japan and Working
Conditions in Japan other than Wages and Hours.)
b. In cases of serious conflict as to the jurisdiction of col-
lective bargaining agreements,Military Government should consider in-
valid any agreement where the trade union or other organization pur-
porting to represent the laborers is not deemed by MG to be their fres-
ly chosen representative. In particular, Military Government should
watch for company unions, i.e., associations organized or dominated by
the employer, and labor gangs of unakilled laborers controlled by
labor bosses or oyakata.
0-4300 P38 bu

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
3. Strikes
a. Strikes in industries whose continued operation is es-
sential to military operations or military security or the objectives
or needs of 'ilitary Government should be prohibited.
b. ilitary Government should permit strikes in non-
essential incustries except where they interfere with the maintenance
of law and ordar or military security. "ilitary Government, however,
should adopt or authorize appropriate procedures, such as those listed
below, to adjust intustrial disputcs in non-essential industries in
order to prevent strikes and settle them promptly.
4. Adjustment of Industrial disputes
a. Direct Negotiation. It is expected that many labor
disputes can be settled by direct and voluntary negotiations be-
tween the worker or his representative and the employer.
b. Voluntary mediation, conciliation and arbitration. In
non-essential industries, the intervention of third parties as mediators,
conciliators and arbitrators in the settlement of disputes should take
place only at the request of both parties to the dispute. Compulsory
arbitration in non-essential industries would prohably involve Military
Government in enforcing a great many decisions in which it will have no
direct interest and for which extensive personnel would be required.
c. Compulsory Arbitration.In essential industries, labor
disputes may be mediated or conciliated by Japanese acceptable to both
sides. In case no settlement is arrived at, compulsory arbitration
by Military Government or by appointees of Lilitary Goverrment will pro-
bably be necessary. All decisions in essential industries should be
subject to review by Military Government.
d. Inadequacy of Existing Mechanisms. Pre-war mechanisms
and laws for the adjustment of industrial disputes will usually be found
to be non-existent, inadequate or biased against the trade unions.
i. The police have never been genuinely impartial, and
have concentrated on breaking or prohibiting strikes rather than set-
tling disputes to the satisfaction of all concerned. Unless a thorough
turnover in poli∞ personnel is effected, Military Government should re-
move all arbitration functions from the police.
ii. The Joint Maritime Board, which represented the ship-
owmers and the seamen's unions equally, has settled maritime disputes
in the past. However, it is expected that Japanese shipping will be
completely under direct military control, (See Civil Affairs Guide on
Japanese Merchant Marine and Coastwise Shipping) and that the functions
of the Joint Maritime Board will not be applicable. Even if some shipping
0-4300 P36 bu

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
is permitted under private auspices, the defects of the Joint Maritime
Board will probably serve to make it useless in its pre-war form.
Those defects are that it represented shipowmers who might be suspect
to Military Government, that its labor representation was confined to
two unions -- the Seamen's Union and the Mercantile Marine Officers
Association -- both of which probably will no longer be in existence,
and that disproportionate representation was afforded Merchant
Marine Officers compared to seamen.
iii. The arbitration boards which have been provided
for by the Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926 were invoked only
four times from 1926 to 1940. The mechanisms provided appear to ta
equitable, however, and it may be useful for Military Government to
permit the invocation of such boards by both parties to a dispute if they
so desire. However, the compulsory provisions for public utilities
and government enterprises should be cancelled.
e.
Suggested methods. Several methods for relieving the load
of industrial disputes may be of use to Military Government. Among
them are:
i. The encouragement of regional or industry-wide col-
lective bargaining agreements between trade union federations and in-
dustry associations. Such broad agreements can prevent numerous indi-
vidual disputes and settlements, and might remove causes of friction by
eliminating minor inequalities in wages, hours, or conditions of labor
as between separate establishments. Such regional or industry-wide
agreements will prohably not be feasible in the early stages of occupa-
tion, but as individual local unions come to form federations, Military
Government should encourage broad agreements.
ii, The allowance of shop or work comittees genuinely
composed of employee and employer representatives. Such committees,
if not including trade union representatives, may tend to compete with
free trade unions and may even tend to turn into company unions, but
until legitimate trade unions are organized they can be of particular
assistance in clearing up minor grievances within a factory. In dealing
with shop committees, Military Government should be careful not to en-
courage employer-dominated committees which might serve as obstacles
to free trade union organization. In all cases involving governmental
agencies, where a trade union has been established, it shall be considered
the genuine representative of the laborers in preference to a shop com-
mittee in the same establishment.
iii. The establishment by Military Government of minimum
standards of hours and working conditions in selected industries. In
view of the probability of some degree of inflation, it is questionable
whether minimum wage standards would be of much use, but disputes over
particularly poor hours and working conditiona may be avoided in certain
industries by setting of minimum standards. (For more extended dis-
cussion of this problem, see Civil Affairs Guides on Control of Wages
and Hours in Japan and Working Conditions other Than Wages and Hours in
Japan.
0-4300 P37 u

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
iv. The possible establishment by Military Government
of some administrative mechanism, staffed by Japanese responsible to
Military Government. Within the framework of Wilitary Government re-
gulations, and subject to raview by the Military Government labor section,
such administrative bodies might be expected to settle disputes arising
out of the interpretation of collective bargaining agreements and spheres
of union jurisdiction. However, no ruling of Military Government shouId
be subject to review by such administrative bodies.
5.
Administration
a. Elimination of undesirable Japanese official agencies
Certain Japanese government agencies have been set up
or have functioned for the purpose of obstructing free labor organiza-
tior. and repressing the expression of labor opinion. These agencies
should be abolishad. Among those recommended for abolition are:
i. The Special Higher Police, including the Peace
Preservation Section of the Police Bureau in the Home lfinistry, the Special
Higher Police Division of the Metropolitanl Police Board, and the Special
Higher Police organizations in the prefectures. The Special Higher Police
for at least two decades has consisted of police officials and plain
clothes-men who have devoted their energies largely to the disruption
of trade union and other labor activities and to the suppression of
democratic, liberal and radical elements of all shades. While in the
'twenties and early 'thirties a few fascist extremists were arrested
by them, even such activity has been entirely absent in recent years.
The personnel of the Special Higher Police while highly trained in police
methods, is considered to be hopelessly reactionary and tied up with the
present militarist and fascist groups in control of the government of
Japan. From the Military Government point of view, the Special Higher
Police will be entirely untrustworthy. It is considered highly unlike-
ly that they could be utilized to ferret out fascists under Military
Government, and on the other hand the continued existence of this group
with or without police authority of any sort will constitute a constant
menace to the existence or growth of trade unions during the occupation
period. Any non-labor functions of the Special Higher Police, if
permitted to remain, should be transferred to some other police organiza-
ticn (For further discussion, see Civil Affairs Guide on Police and Public
Safety in Japan).
ii. The Thought Section of the Criminal Affairs Bureau
in the Ministry of Justice. This section has been engaged in prosecuting
thought offenses. With the abrogation of the Peace Preservation Law,
this section will have no legitimate function and should be abolished.
iii. The labor offices in the Munitions Ministry and
such labor control offices in the finistry of Welfare established for
0-4300 P38 bu

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
wartime coercion of labor, except ror employment exchanges which
Military Government will want to operate on a voluntary basis (see
Civil Affairs Guide on Control of Labor Supply in Japan.)
iv. All special police offices in the national police,
the Metropolitan Police Board and the prefectural governments that have
been primarily engaged in the adjustment of labor disputes.
b. Elimination of Undesirable Personnel
In addition to the usual military security check to weed
out persons hostile to the United States and to Military Government, it
will be necessary for Military Government to declare ineligible for
employment in its labor agencies or as conciliators, mediators and arbi-
trators all those who have been directly connected in a responsible
capacity with the obstruction or repression of trade union organization
and activities.
Among others this includes:
i. All officials and former officials of "Sampo"
i.e., the Industrial Patriotic Societies and the prefectural, regional and
national federations thereof, of the labor sections of the Imperial
Rule Assistance Association, of the Harmonization Society, of the
"patriotic" societies, of the fascist labor unions, and of the Japan and
Osaka Industrial Clubs.
ii. All mer:bers and former members of the police, in-
cluding the gendarmerie, except that members of the Factory Section
of the Peace Preservation Police might be used solely for factory in-
spection.
c. Labor Section in Military Government
As a part of the civil administration, it will probably
be desirable to establish within Military Govornment a labor section
which should be trained and competent to administer Military Government's
policy with regard to trade unions, collective bargaining and other mat-
ters connected with labor-capital relations. Among its functions
would be:
i. The screening of Japanese personnel in all labor
agencies of filitary Government to eliminate undesirable personmel.
ii. The selection of arbitrators in cases where com-
pulsory arbitration is ordered, particularly in disputes in industries
where continued operation is deemed essential to military operations and
security.
iii. Review of collective bargaining agreements, ar-
bitration decisions and rulings of subordinate official agencies dealing
with labor, in order to ensure that they are in conformity with Military
Government policies.
0-4300 Pgg nobw

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
APPENDIX A - RUSTER OF PRINC IPAI LABOR UNIONS BEFORE THE CHINA WAR (1936)
Dato of
Number of
No. of
Political
Labor Union
Organization
Urganizational
Members
Chief Officials
Affiliarion
Note
Units
I. Nippan Rodo Kumiai Kaigi
1932
1C organizations
259,673
Pres. Matsuoka, Komakichi
Shakai Taishuto
Japanese Trade Union Cagress
rres. Yonekubo, Mitsuakd
(oocial kasses rarty
6 district councils
Sec. Gen. Kamijo, Aiichi
A. Zen Nippon Rodo Sodomei
1912
13 federations
85,308
res. katsuoka,Komakichi
n
n
11
Amalgamation
All-Japan General Federa-
106 umions
of Nippon
tion of Labor
Rodo Sodomei
and Zenkoku
Rodo Kumiai
Danei
B.
Nippon Kaiin Kumiai
1921
1h branch offices
106,837
Horinouchi, Nagahisa
n
Both unions
Japan Seamen's Union
Yanekubo, Mitsuaki
1
under influ-
ence of the
C.
Kaiin Kyokai
Ship Umers
Mercantile Marine Officers
1896
9 branch offices
13,553
Koizumi, Hidekichi
n
n
Association
36
Association
D. Nippon Kowan Jugynin Kumiai
1928
12 locals
15,485
Okasakd, Ken
1n
11
Japan Harbor Employees' Union
E.
Nippon Seitetsu Jugyoin Kumiai
1933
38 locals
12,500
Hamabashi, Bunsaku
a
Japan Steel Workers Union
F. Kangyo Rodo Sodomei
General Federation of Govern- 192h
7 unions
10,590
Nishiura, Ukdchi
ment employees
Go
Nippon Rodo Soremmei
Federation of Japanese Labor
1930
21 umions
6,300
Yagi, Nobuichi
H.
Nippon Seito Rodo Kumiai Drmei
1931
15 unions
3,500
Ito, Eijiro
Shakaii Taishuto
Federation of Japanese Ceramic
Labor Unions
6-4800 P41 b

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
APPBNDIX A - (Cont'd)
Number of
Labor Union
Date of
Urganisational
No. of
Political
urganization
Units
Members
Chief Officials
Affiliation
Note
I.
Tokyo Gasuko Kumiai
1936
23 locals
3,350
Hirano, Yasukura
Shakai Taishuto
Tokyo Cas Workers' Union
J.
Toden Jugyoin Kumiai
1927
18 locals
2,450
Iwanaga, Eiichi
Tokyo Electric Company
Workers' Union
II. Nippon Rodo Kumiai Zenkoku Hyogikai
1934
5 distriet
12,053
Kato, Kanju
Nippon Musanto,
This was known
National Council of Japanese Lebor
councils;
Japanese Frole-
as legal laft
Unions
40 unions
tarian Party
union. It was
dissolved in
Dec. 1937.
III. Nippon Kotsu Rodo Soremmei
1y26
7 unions
21,225
Ukamoto, Ushitaro
Nippon Minshuto
33
General Federation of Japanese
(Japan Democratic
Transport Workers
Party.) and
Shakai Taishuto
IV. Tokyo-shi Jugyoin Kumiai
1924
21 locals
1,470
Iwanaga, Gichi (1938)
Shakai Taishuto
Tokyo City Employees Union
∇.
Aikoki Rodo Kundai Zenkoku Konwa-kai
1936
11 organizations 80,278
Takayama, Kuzo
This organiza-
National Convention of Patriotic
tion united
Labor Unions
all fascist
Labor groups
A. Nippon Rodo Kumiai Sorengo
1926
5 federations
25,102
Takayama, Kuzo
Nippon Karushinto
General Federation of Japanese
(Japan Reformation
Labor Unions
Party)

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
ADDRUnTX A - (Cont'd)
Date of
Number of
Number of
Political
Labor Union
urganization
Urganizational
Members
Chief Officials
Affiliation
Note
Units
B.
Dai Nippon Rodo Kumiai
1934
9 unions
2,200
Chashi, Chifusa
Dai Nippon Kokka Shakai-to
KyogHhai, Creat Japan
(Great Japan Nationa)
Labor Union
Socialist Party)
C. Nippon Sangyo Rodo Kurabu
1933
23 unions
25,717
Ishii, Yozo
Sanro Seiji Kank-yu-kai,
Many unions
Japan Industrial Labor Club
Industry and Labor Poli-
are company
tical Research Society
unions
D. Aikoku Rodo Namin Doshi-kai
1933
7 branches
2,600
Matsudaira, Yuhei
Patriotic Labor and Farmers
Comrades Society
E. Nippon Rodo Domei
1932
5 unions
3,600
Kondo, Eizo
United wdth
Japan Workers League
Aikoku Rodo
Noadn Dos-
kai in 1936
-38
F. Nippon Sangyo-gun
1934
29 unions
Imamura, Hitoshi
Joined
Japan Industrial Army
Alkoku Rodo
Nomin Doshi-
kai
Aikoku Jugyoin Kumiai Remmei
1936
24 unions
4,048
Yamasaki, Tsunekichi
Nippan Kakushinto
Company
Federation of Tatriotic Em-
unions
ployees Unions
H.
Shin Nipron Kaiin Kumiai
1935
9 branches
10,000
Koji, Sotaro
Rejoined
New Japan Seamen's Union
the Nippon
Kaiin Kumdai
in 1937
VI. Kaigun Kangyo Rodo Kumiai Remmei
1924
7 unions
51,900
Hayashi, Sukeichi
Federation of Naval dorkers? Unions
0-4500
P43
bu

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
0r4300 P44 bu
PFENDI A - (Cont'd)
Date of
Number of
No. of
Folitical
Laber Union
Urganization
Organizational
embers
Chief Ufficials
Affiliation
Note
Units
VII. 39 Independent unions
43,969
SUURCE:
Adopted fram Rodo Nenkan, 1937, pp. 251 - 275.
3

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
APPENDIX B
STATISTICS OF TRADE UNION MELBERSHIP
I. TRADE UNION MEMBERSHIP, 1926 - 1939
Year
Number of
Number of
Total Number of
Percent of
(December)
Unions
Union Members
Workers Non- Agri-
Workers
cultural
Organised
1926
488
284.739
4.641.681
6.1
1927
505
309.493
4.703.757
6.5
1928
501
308.900
4.824.780
6.3
1929
630
330,985
4.873.081
6.8
1930
712
354312
4.713.002
7.5
1931
818
368.975
4.670,275
7.9
1932
932
377,625
4,860,276
7.8
1933
942
384,613
5.126.719
7.5
1934
965
387,964
5.764,277
6.7
1935
993
408.662
5.906.589
6.9
1936
973
420.589
6,090,116
6.9
1937
837
395.290
6.422.333
6.2
1938
731
375.191
6.765.399
5.5
1939 (June)
659
314.737
8.136.370
3.9
Source:
Nakagawa, Konichi, Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal)
March, 1940, pp. 262-277
G-4300 P45 bu

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
Q-4300 P46
APPENDIX B (cont'd)
bu
2. TRADE UNION MEIBERSHIP BY INDUSTRY
(1929,1936,1939)
Percent of
Industry
1929 (December)
1936 (December)
1939 (June)
Total Workers
Organized 1929
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
M.
F.
T.
Machine & Tools
99.757
1,719
101.476
93,991
1,948
95.939
105,222
2,581
107,803
27.95
3.59
26.54
Chemical
10,222
1,825
12,047
23.140
3,206
26.346
13,336
3.327
16,663
13.48
0.75
9.19
Textile
11.991
4.855
16,846
9,226
9.095
18,321
4.951
3.636
8.587
9.32
0.75
2.01
Food & Drink
3.003
215
3,218
4.623
639
5.262
2,989
405
3.394
24.85
0.44
2.03
Mining
6,132
2
6.134
5,920
28
5.948
4,509
7
4.516
2.46
0.3
2.05
Gas & Electricity
9,651
158
9,809
9,636
57
9.693
2.610
2S
2,638
59.87
8.7
49.87
Transportation
131,723
1,178
132,901
174,976
4.268
179,244
100,347
6.890
107,237
42.0
2.4
37.19
Communication
1,968
1,968
7,400
86
7,486
7,896
60
7,956
1.89
Civil Engineer-
ing (Building
and Construction) 2.479
2.479
6.632
108
6,740
4.221
55
4,276
Miscellaneous 1
13.345
1,342
14.687
17,019
2,231
19.250
18.371
2,774
21.145
Day Workers and
Others
28.798
622
29,420
43,340
3.020
46.360
28.058
2.464
30.522
3.1
0.46
2.34
11
a
TOTAL
319,069 11,916
330,985
395,903
24,686
420,589
292,510
22,227
314,737
9.57
0.72
6.73
Source:
Figures for l929 frop International Labor Office, Industrial and Labor Information, Vol. xxxIv,
June 30,1930,p.291
Figures for 1936 from Japan-Manchoukuo Year Book, 1940, p. 327
Figures for 1939 fram Nakagawa, Kenichi, Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal) March, 1940,
pp.262-277
Percentages for 1929 from Allen Sayler, "Trade Union Development," Labor's News, October 31, 1931
1
Miscellaneous industries caaprise: knitted goods, hats, lacquerware, leather and hides, bamboo
manufactures, brushes, straw braids, electric bulbs, pyrethrums, toys, buttons, matches.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
●
-42-
APPENDIX B (Cont'd)
3. CHIEF AREAS OF TRAIEUNION AND "LABOR FRONT" MELIBERSHIP
(JUNE 1939)
Prefecture
Trade Union
Industrial Patriotic
Membership
SocietyWembership
Tokyo
67,323
536,994
Kanagawa
26,649
112,227
Kyoto
8,866
76,538
Osaka
38,627
263,576
Hyogo
61,685
158,423
Hiroshima
35,399
28,090
Nagasaki
17,240
59,990
Aichi
5,857
171,622
Fukuoka
2,573
278,475
Total of 9 Prefectures
264,219
1,685,935
Total for all Japan
314,737
2,705,203
1
Sangyo Hokoku-Kai
Source:
Nakagawa, Kenichi, Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal) March,
1940, pp. 262-77
0-4300 P47 bu

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
APPENDIXC
STATISTICS ON LABOR DISPUTES IN JAPAN
I. LABOR DISPUTES IN JAPAN, 1931-1940
No. of
No. of
No. per
No. of Disputes
Union
Disputes
Persons
Dispute
Ending in Strikes
Participation
Year
Involved
Sabotage and
in Strikes
Lockouts
(in percent)
1931
2,456
154,528
63
998
71
1932
2,217
123,313
56
893
63
1933
1,897
116,733
62
610
50
1934
1,915
1.20,307
63
626
39
1935
1,872
103,962
56
590
43
1936
1,975
92,552
47
547
44
1937
2,126
213,622
100
628
38
1938
1,050
55,565
70
262
13
1939
1,120
72,835
203
1940
701
31,476
123
Sources:
Figures through 1939 from Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal)
March, 1940, pp. 206-282.
Figures for 1940 from Shakai Seisaku Jiho, March 194l, p. 335
Note: Bigures from Toyo Keisai Chosa Geppo (Oriental Economist Monthly Survey)
Oct. 1943 indicate 330 disputes with 14874 participants fnr year ending
June, 194l and 259 disputes with 13,752 participants for year ending June,
1942. These figures, however, may not be comparable to those in the Table.
0.4300 P48 bu

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX C (Cant'd)
2.
NUMBER OF DISPUTES BY CAUSES
For
Against
Against
Payment
Protest
Union
Welfare
Protest
Payment
Rejection
Others
Year
Wage In-
Wage De-
ethods
of Wages
Against
Rec og-
Estab-
Against
of Dis-
of Super
creases
creases
of Wage
Due
Assign-
nition
lishment
Discharge
charge
visor
Payment
ment
Allow-
ances
1931
290
419
103
281
22
18
9
540
377
40
357
1932
397
289
98
286
17
7
11
488
227
26
271
1933
596
110
103
200
32
7
14
319
255
45
236
1934
622
78
113
184
34
9
15
309
288
45
118
1935
481
142
1.15
165
29
11
13
272
357
47
245
1936
561
131
70
162
27
1.5
9
309
397
44
254
1937
1,002
73
56
108
23
11
9
237
304
51
257
1938
440
31
29
97
7
14
82
215
25
100
1939
528
21
10
51
17
2
13
51
90
43
198
1940
G-4300 P49
1
一
-
Source:
Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal) March, 1940, pp. 288-9.
bu

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
APPENDIX C
(cont'a)
3. ADJUSTLENT OF DISPUTES
First
No. of Cases
Six
Arbitrated
BY WHOA ADJUSTED
Mos. of
in % of
Arbitration/Arbitration2/Police
Mayors &
Gov.
Others
Total
Year
Total
Boards
Officials
Governos
Officials
1931
32.6
1
120
96
21
2
112
352
1932
30.4
一
89
95
9
2
92
287
1933
28.2
1
63
81
14
4
75
238
1934
34.8
83
117
10
3
73
286
1935
38.8
一
73
175
5
5
69
327
1936
45.3
89
245
1
3
59
397
1937
35.1
1
95
299
30
12
75
511
1938
47.2
一
40
198
9
4
28
279
1939
52.7
一
5
275
7
2
19
308
1940 (Sept.) -
352
2
1
13
368
1
Pursuant to Labor Disputes djustment Act of 1926
2
In the Social Welfare Bureau of Home Department, and in the Welfare Department.
Sources:
Figures through 1939 from Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal)
March, 1940, p. 304.
Figures for 1940 from
1bid, March 1941, p 348.
6-420n PRn bu

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
-46-
APPENDIX D
Selected Laws Obstructing or Repressing Trade Union
Organization and Activity Which Should be Abrogated or Amended
by Military Government
1. Peace Preservetion Law (Jaan Iji-ho) Law (Horitsu) No. 54, March 10,
1941
Chapter I. Crimes
"Article 1. A person who has organized an association with the
object of changing the national policy or a person who has performed the
work of an officer or other leader of such an association shall be con-
demned to death or punished with penal servitude for life or not less
than seven years; and a perspn who knowingly has joined such an associa-
tion or a person who has camitted en act contributing to the acromplish-
ment of its object shall be punished with penal servitude for a fixed term
of not less than seven years.
"Article 2. A person who has organized an association with the
object of aiding an association specified in the preceding Article or a
person who heas performed work of an officer or other leader of such an
association shall bo condemned to death or punished with penal servitude
for life or not less than five years, and a person who knowingly has joined
such an association or a person who has committed an act contributing to
the accomplishment of its object shall be punished with penal servitude
for a fixed term of not less than two years.
"Article 3. A person who has organized en association with the
object of preparing for the orgenization of an association specified in
Article 1 or a person who has performed the work of an officer or other
leader of such an association shall be condemned to death or punished with
penal servitude for life or not less than five years, and a person who
knowingly has joined such an association or who has committed en act con-
tributing to the accomplishment of its object shall be punished with
penal servitude for a fixed term of not less than two years.
"Article 4. A person who has convoked a mee ting with the objects
stipulated in the preceding three Articles or a person who has directed
such a meeting shall be punished with penal servitude for life or not
less than three years, and a person who has participated in such a meeting
with the objects stipulated in the foregoing three Articles or a person
who has committed an act contributing to the realization of the objects
stipulated in the foregoing three Articles in connection with said meeting
shalt be purnished with penal servitude for a fixed term of not less than
one year.
"Article 5. A person who has conferred with another person or in-
stigated others to attain the objectives mentioned in Articles 1 to 3 or
0-4300 P51 bu

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-47-
who has committed overt acts to attain such objectives or propagated such
objectives matters or committed other acts contributing to the accomplish-
ment of the objectives, shall be punished with penal servitude or not less
than one year and not exceeding ten years.
"Article 6. A person who has created confusion, acted in a dis-
orderly way, or incited to crime injurious to life, person and property for
the objects stipulated in Articles 1 to 3, shall be punished with penal
servitude for a fixed term of not less than two years.
"Article 7. A person who has organized an association with the
object of circulating matters disavowing the national polity or imparing
the sanctity and dignity of the shrines and the Imperial Household or a person
who has performed the work of an officer or other leeder of such an asso-
ciation shall be punished with penal servitude for a fixed term of not less
than four years, and a person who has comaitted an act contributing to the
accomplishment of its objectives shall be punished with penal servitude for
a fixed term of not less than one year.
"Article 8. A person who has convoked a meeting with the objects
stipulated in the foregoing Article or a person who has directed such a
meeting shall be punished with penal servitude for life or not less than
three, years, and a person who, with the objects stipulated in the foregoing
Article, has participated in said meeting, or a person who has committed an
act contributing to the accomplishment of the objectives stipulat d in the
foregoing Article in relation to said meeting, shall be punished with penal
servitude for a fixed term of not less than one year.
"Article 9. A person who has given or offered or promised to give
money or other articles or the procoeds of property to another person with
the object of furthering the commission of one of the crimes stipulated in
the preceding eight Articles, shall be punished with penal servitude not
exceeding 10 years. This provision shall also apply to a person who know-
ingly has accepted or demanded or promised to accept said offering.
"Article 10. A person who has organized an association with the
object of disavowing the private property system or a person who knowingly
has joined such an association or a person who has committed an act cen-
tributing to the accomplishment of the objects of said association, shall
be puniehed with penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
"Article ll. A person who has conferred with othe persons re-
garding the carrying out of actions with the objects stipulated in the pre-
ceeding Articles or a person who has instigated the carrying out of such
an action shall be punished with penal servitude or imprisonment not ex-
ceeding seven years.
0-4300 P52 bu

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-48-
"Article 12. A person who, with the objects stipulated in Article
10, has created confusion, acted in a disorderly wey or otherwise incited
to crimes injurious to life, person, or property, shall be punished with
penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
Article 13. A person who has given or offered or promised to give
money or other articles or the proceeds of property to another person with
the object of furthering the commission of crimes stipulated in the pre-
ceeding three Articles, shall be punished with penal servitude or imprison-
ment not exceeding five years. This provision shall apply also to a person
who knowingly has accepted or demanded or promised to accept said offering.
"Article 14. Attempts to commit the crimes stipulated in Articles
1 to 4, Article 7, Article 8 and Article 10 of the present law shall be
punished (in the same way as if actually committed).
"Article 15. When a person who has committed any of the crimes
stipulated in this Chapter has surrendered himself his punishment shall be
mitigated or remitted.
*Article l6. Provisions of this Cnapter shall also be applied to
any peraon, without exception, who has committed any of the crimes stipulated in
this law outside the territories where this hw is in force."
(Chapter II and III on Criminal Procedure and Preventive Detention, respeo-
tively and including Articles 17 - 65 refer to procedure applied to cases of
crimes stipulated in Chapter I.)
2. Protective Suryeillance for Thought Offenses Law (Shiso-han Hogo Kan-
gateuho), Law (Hori tsu) No. 29, May 29, 1936.
"Article l. A person may be submitted to Protective Surveillance on
decision of the Protective Surveillance Commission if there is a judgment of
suspended sentence against said person for violating the Peace Preservation
Law or when prosecution is not lodged because suit has already been filed.
The same may occur when the sentence has been completed or release on parole
is granted.
"Article 2. Protective Surveillance protects the person and observes
his 'thought" and 'conduct' in order to prevent repetitton of the crime.
"Article 3. Protective Surveillance places the person under surveil-
lance of a probation officer or Protective Surveillance Station, turns him
over to a guardian, or entrusts him to a protective body, temple, church,
hospital, or other proper person.
"Article 4. Restriction may be put on the abode, friends or communi-
cations of persons submitted to Protective Surveillance; other proper stipu-
lations for surveillance may be issued.
0-4300 288 

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
- 49 -
"Article 5. Protective Surveillance period is two years; when
there is special need for prolonging the period, it may be renewed on
decision of Protective Surveillance Commission."
Articles 6 - 13 provide procedural details.)
3. Regulations Relative to Application of Protective Surveillance Law
for Thought Offense (Shiso-han Hogo Kansuru Kisoku),
Articles 1 - 2 state general rules and purpose of Ordinance.
Articles 3 - 16 designate procedure for the investigation of person
whom it is deemed necessary to submit to Protective Surveillance. Investi-
gation is made by Protective Surveillance Station or probation officer.
Articles 17 - 26 state that the person in question is to be submitted
to Protective Surveillance and probation officer or guardian to whom person
is entrusted must be instructed in meaning of Les. Probation officer or
guardian must be acquainted with measures to carry out Protective Surveillance.
Probation officer must report to Protective Surveillance Station on certain
matters concerning the progress of person under protective Surveillance.
4. National Mobilization Law (Kokka Sodoin-ho), Law (Horitsu) No. 55,
April 1, 1938; Revised by Law No. 68, April 1939 and Law No. 19.
March 1941.
"Article 4. In time of war the Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may enlist subjects of the Empire and place them in
general mobilization businesses in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances. This provision does not prevent the ppplication of the Con-
scription Law, however,
"Article 6. The Government if necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war may issue orders which are necessary regarding the
use, employment or discharge or assumption of offices or assumption of ser-
vices or retirement of employess or wages, salaries and other working condi-
tions, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
"Artiole 7. The Government if necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war may issue necessary orders regmrding the prevention
or settlement of labor disputes or the closing of plarts, suspension of
operations, or restriction or prohibition of acts relating to labor dis-
putes, according to prosisions of Imperial Ordinances."
0-4300 P54 bu

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
- 50 -
5. Public Peace Police Law (Jian Keisatsu-ho), Law (Horitsu) No. 36, March
10, 1900. Revised by Law No. 59, April 1922, and Law No. 58, April 1926.
"Article l. The officers of associations connected with political
matters (if in branches, the branch officers) shall report, within three days
after the date of organization of the asscciation, to the police station
the name of the association, its by-laws, its headquarters, and the mames of
its officers. In case of a change in any of the above data, the same pro-
cedure (in filing a new report) shall be follosed.
"Article 2. Those who open mass meetings connected with politics
shall be designated sponsors.
The sponsors shall.... at least three hours before the opening of
such a meeting notify the police station having jurisdiction of the place the
date and time of the meeting.
If the meeting is convoked more than three houss after the stipu-
lated time or is interrupted after more than three hours, the notification
shall lose its validity.
"Article 3. In the case of associations or meetings related to
public affairs, even though they are not concerned with political matters,
when it is deemed necessary to maintain peace and order, the provisions of
Articles 1 and 2 may be applicable by law.
"Article 8. In cases where it is deemed necessary to the maintenance
of public peace, the police may restrict, prohibit or disperse putdoor meet-
ings and processions, and may disperse indoor meetings.
In cases where conditions of the preceding provision (if necessary
to maintain public peace) applies, the Minister of Home Affairs has the
authority to ban associations.
Revision of the Public Peace Police Law in 194l and after:
Law No. 97, December 21, 1941 revised certain provisions of the
Public Peace Police Law. Article 1 is revised to require the sanction of the
Minister of Home Affairs when organising a political association. Article 8
is revised to give the police the power to cancel meetings and ban assooia-
tions before the meetings take place or the associations are organised.
Legislation passed after l94l requires that in the case of meetings
of more than three persons concerned with political or, where the maintenance
of peace and order is involved, with any public affairs, permission must be
obtained in advance from the police. New associations are required to obtain
permission from the Minister of Home Affairs at least thirty days prior to
their establishment.
0-6800 P55 Bu

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
- - 51 -
6. Police Crimes Punishment Law. (Keisatsu-han Shobatsu-rei), Ordinance
of Home Department, No. 16, Sept. 29, 1908. Revised by Home Depart-
ment Ordinance No. 17, Sept. 1919.
"Article l. Persons who fall into one of the following categories
shall be imprisoned for not more than thirty days:
3. Those who walk back and forth in places where they
do not reside and where they do not hate business.
4. Those who, without due reason, forcibly request an
interview or follow others threateningly or foroibly converse with others.
"Article 2. Persons who fall into the following categories shall
be imprisoned for not more than thirty days or fined not more than twenty
yon:
5. Those who obstruct of commit misohief with regard
to another person's business.
31. Those who forcibly stand beside and blook another
person and those who forcibly follow another.
G-48oo Pse bu-fina1

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
FOREIGN ECONOMIC-ADMINISTRATION
BOARDCORXECONOMICWARFARE
MEMORANDUM
F. B. Lyon, Chief,
TO:
Foreign Activity Correlation
DATE: Sept. 4, 1940
94.5043/9-445
State Department
FROM:
Constance G. Gaynor
Project Control Staff
SUBJECT:
LM-1: Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining in Japan.
Attached is a cony of the above report for your use.
4
1945
CS/MA
94,50479-44
BEWG121

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
Lx-1
COMP IDENT IAL
Copy No.4
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Ensmy Branch
TRADE UNIONS AND COLLECTIVE BARGAIHING IN JAPAN
(This report is identical with the Civil Affairs
Guide of the same title, prepared for the Civil
Affairs Division, War Department.)
CONFIDENTIAL
July 1945
0-4300 Cover

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. SULLLARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Concern of LVilitary Government with Trade Unions and Col-
lective Bargaining
B. Japanese Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining to date
C. Probable Labor Conditions under Military Government
D. Recommended Military Government Courses of Action
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organise
2. Collective Bargaining
3. Strikes
4c Adjustment of Industrial Disputes
5. Administration
II.
THE TRADE UNION MOVEIENT AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS
A. Historical Background
B. The Trade Unions before the Labor Front
1. The Left-wing Unions
a. National Council of Japanese Labor Unions
b. General Federation of Japanese Transport Workers
2. The Conservative Unions
a. All-Japan General Federation of Labor
b. Japan Seamen's Union
c. Mercantile Marine Officers' Association
d. Japan Harbor Workers' Union
3. Company Unions
4. The Fascist Labor Unions
C. Organizations Opposed to Trade Unions
1. Patriotic Societies
2. Industrial Associations
3. Harmonization Societies
CONFIDENTIAL
0-4300 P1 ef 5e bu-ees-up

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
D. The Labor Front
1. History
2. Structure
3. Functions
7
E. Militarization of Labor
F. Political Activities of Labor
III. THE PATTERN OF JAPANESE INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
A. Paternalistic Tradition
B. Police Interference with Trade Unions
1. The Peace Preservation Law
2. Protective Surveillance for Thought Offenses Law
3. National Mobilization Law
4. Public Peace Police Law
5. Police Crimes Punishments Ordinance
6. Repressive Police Agencies
C. Disputes and Strikes
D. Collective Bargaining, Shop Committees and Mechaniams for
Settling Capital-Labor Disputes
1. Collective Bargaining
2. Shop Committees
3. Mechanism for Settling Capital-Labor Disputes
a. Arbitration Boards
b. Department of Welfare Arbitration Officials
c. Police Arbitration
d. Joint Maritime Board
e. Other Mechanisms
IV. PROGRAM FOR MILITARY GOVERNMENT
A. Conditions Likely to Confront Military Government
1. Poor Economic Position of the Japanese Worker
2. Probable Rise of Trade Unions
3. Disputes and Strikes
B. Concern of Military Government with Industrial Relations
C. Recommended General Courses of Action for Military Government
0-4300 Pa bu

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-iii-
D. Recommended Program for Military Government
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
a. Proclamation of General Policy
b. Freedom of Speech
c. Abrogation of Repressive Legislation
d. Release of Labor Prisoners
e. Dissolution of "Sampo" and Associated Organizations
2. Collective Bargaining
3. Strikes
4. Adjustment of Industrial Disputes
a. Direct Negotiation
b. Voluntary Mediation, Conciliation, and Arbitration
c. Compulsory Arbitration
d. Inadequacy of Existing Mechanisms
e. Suggested Methods
5. Administration
a. Elimination of Undesirable Japanese Official
agencies
b. Elimination of Undesirable Personnel
c. Labor Section in Military Government
APPENDICES
A. Roster of Principal Labor Unions before the China War (1936)
B. Statistics of Trade Union Membership
1. Trade Union Membership, 1926-1939
2. Trade Union Membership,by Industry, 1929,1936,1939
3。
Chief Areas of Trade Union and "Labor Front"
Membership (June 1939)
C. Statistics on Labor Disputes in Japan
1. Labor Disputes in Japan, 1931-1940
2. Number of Disputes by Causes
3. Adjustment of Disputes
D. Selected Laws Obstructing or Repressing Trade Union Organization
and Activity Which Should be Abrogated or Amended by Military
Government.
0-4300 P3 nobu

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
I. SULMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Concern of Military Government with Trade Unions and
Collective Bargaining
Military Government will have two primary concerns in the field
of labor and industrial relations in Japan: (1) to ensure the con-
timued operation of industries and cervices essential to military opera-
tions and security and (2) to establish conditions favorable to the de-
velopment of democratic organizations and ideas. To achieve these aims,
Military Government will need to establish general policies and work out
a consistent program with respect to Japanese trade unions and collective
bargaining during the military occupation period.
B. Japanese Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining to date
Up to the beginning of the China War in 1937, the Japanese trade
union movement, while never as strong as in most western countries, was
an important element in Japanese economic and political life. Its high
point was reached in 193l, when it inaluded almost 8 percent of all in-
dustrial workers, with heavy concentration in the metals and machinery
industries and in the merchant marine. Organizationally, the trade
union movement was split along ideological lines among a handful of
federations which exercised rather loose control over the individual
unions. Individual unions were often organized on the basis of an
industry, but most often consisted of the workers of a given locality.
Partly as a result of police repression of the radicals and liberals,
the conservative unions were most numerous and powerful. From 1925
until 1940 when they were dissolved, the unions engaged rather heavily
in political activity, sometimes at the expense of neglecting cirect
conomic issues of wages, hours, and working conditions. In 1937,
the high point of labor political activity, the labor political parties
polled one million out of some ten million votes. On the whole, the
trade unions were among the most consistent of the advocates of de-
mocratic ideas and international peace in Japan.
This development of trade union organization is particularly
significant in that it took place under highly unfavorable conditions.
The Japanese tradition of paternalism, highly restrictive laws, and
the repressive activities of the police, who constantly interfered with
free labor organizations, made it difficult to recruit trade union mem-
bers, bargain c∞llectively, or strike. Partly because the government
never accorded official recognition to trade unions, the western mecha-
nisms used in orderly labor-capital relations such as collective bar-
gaining agreements, shop committees, and arbitration boards, were
all relatively unimportant in Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL
0-4800 P6 bu

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
With the advent of the China War, the government increased its re-
pressive activities in a consistent attempt to remove all elements
which might interfere with its totalitarian mobilization of labor
for war. The trade unions were forced to dissolve and in their place
was set up a monolithic organization of Industrial Patriotic Societies,
or "Sampo", closely analogous to the Labor Front in Germany. The
labor political parties were absorbed into the Imperial Rule Assistance
Association, a large number of left-wing and liberal trade union
leaders were imprisoned; and a system of military ranks were intro-
duced into the factories and mines. Although strikes were not ex-
pressly forbidden by law, they were banned in practise by blanket
administrative prohibitions. Labor reaction to these measures is
difficult to gauge because of the heavy cloak of censorship in war-
time Japan, but reports have seeped through which indicate that con-
siderable underground activity on the part of some labor groups per
sists.
C. Probable Labor Conditions under Military Government
All present indications are that the economic position of the
Japanese laborers, never too good, will have deteriorated greatly by
the end of hostilities and will continue to worsen immediately there-
after, particularly if inflation occurs. In a great many cases, the
Japanese laborers will be compelled to seek adfustments in their terms
of employment. The pre-war history and the reported wartime activity
of Japanese labor indicate that after the collapse of the Japanese
government and its totalitarian controls, the workers may organize
numerous trade unions for the purpose of bargaining collectively for
better wages, hours and working conditions. Many disputes may arise
as a consequence of labor demands for adjustments of employer attempts
to cut labor costs. In some cases these disputes will develop into
strikes. However, the poor bargaining position of the laborers even
when members of a trade union is believed to lessen the chances of
widespread strikes. It is also anticipated that some of the trade
unions will engage in political education and agitation, but such
political activity is considered to be beyond the scope of this Guide.
(See Civil Affairs Guide on Political Parties in Japan).
D. Recommended Military Government Courses of Action
Since many of the adjustments which the trade unions will seek
will be considered justified by Military Government and since trade
unions have been among the most effective proponents of democratic
ideas in Japan, it is recommended that Military Government should
generally look with favor upon and protect the organization and
growth of trade unions. It is further recommended that collective
bargaining between employers, on the one hand, and democratically
organized trade unions or other representatives freely chosen by
the employees, on the other, be encouraged as a democratic and
0-4800 P6 Du

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
stabilizing influence in labor relations. As a general rule, Military
Government will find it desirable to reduce the total number of in-
dustrial disputes and resulting work stoppages, and might therefore
establish mechanisms for adjusting such disputes. Strikes and lock-
outs in industries whose continued operation is essential for mili-
tary operations or security, however, should be prohibited.
To carry out these policies and to achieve the objectives of
Lilitary Government, it will be necessary for Ifilitary Government to
effect sweeping changes in the present system of industrial relations
and in the legal framework within which labor organizations may operate.
The Military Government program with respect to trade unions and col-
loctive bargaining which is recommended in this Guide may be sum-
marized as follows:
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
a. As soon as it is practicable, Military Government should issue
a proclamation recognizing the freedom of industrial and agricultural workers
to join trade unions or other organizations of their own choice for purposes
of improving their terms of employment and mutual protection. However, it
should be made clear that labor associations of any kind which are operated
for militaristic or nationalistic purposes will not be permitted.
b. The freedom to organize and bargain collectively implies
the freedom of assembly and speech. Therefore, access to public
channels of information and opinion, such as the radio and press,
on a non-discriminatory basis, should be granted as long as the exer-
cise of these rights is in accord with military security.
c. In order to guarantee freedom to organize, Military Govern-
ment should abrogate all laws which prevent the free organization of
trade unions and all legitimate trade union acticity directed towards
improving wages, hours, and working conditions. This includes, to-
gether with subsequent amendments (1) The Peace Preservation Law of
1941, (2) The Protective Surveillance for Thought Offenses Law of 1936,
(3) Articles 4, 6, and 7 of the National Mobilization Law of 1938
as revised in 194l, (4) Articles 3 and 8 of the Public Peace Police
Law of 1900 as amended in 1922, 1926 and 1941, (5) Paragraphs 3 and 4
of Article 1 and Paragraphs 5 and 31 of Article 2 of the Police Crimes
Punishments Ordinance of 1908, as amended in 1919 and (b) the factory
and Workshop Supervision Ordinance of March 18, 1944.
d. All persons who have been imprisoned under the fore-
going laws for activity or "thought" in connection with trade unions
or other labor organizations should be released as soon as possible.
e. The Industrial Patriotic Associations and associated or-
ganizations, including whatever organizations have succeeded the
labor sections of the IRAA and also the Harmonization Society and the
"patriotic" societies, should be dissolved.
0-4300 P7D

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
2.
Collective Bargaining
a. As soon as democratically organized and governed trade unions
are formed they should be permitted to bargain collectively with em-
ployers regarding the terms of employment subject to such policies on
wages, hours, and working conditions as are established by Military
Government.
b. In cases of conflict as to the jurisdiction of a collective
bargaining agreement, Military Government should consider invalid any
collective bargaining agreement in which the workers' representative
is not deemed by MG to have been freely chosen.
3. Strikes
a. Strikes or other work stoppages should not be permitted in in-
dustries whose continuous operation is essential to military security
or military operations or with the objectives or needs of Military
Government.
b. Military Government should permit strikes in non-ossential
industries, except where they interfere with the maintenance of law
and order or military security. Military Government should, however,
adopt or authorize appropriate procedures, such as those listed below,
to adjust industrial disputes in non-essential industries in order to
prevent strikes or settle them promptly.
4. Adjustment of Industrial Disputes
a. It is expected that the majority of labor disputes can
be settled by direct and voluntary negotiation between the worker or
his representative and the employer.
b. Arbitration in industrial disputes involving non-essential
industries should take place only at the request of both parties.
c. In essential industries, labor disputes may be conciliated
or mediated by Japanese acceptable to both employers and workers. Where
no decision can be arrived at, arbitration by Military Government or
an appointee of Military Government may be necessary.
d. Pre-war mechanisms for the adjusiment of industrial disputes
will usually be found to be non-oxistent, inadequate or biased against
trade unions. All police functions with regard to arbitration of
industrial disputes should be cancelled. The arbitration boards pro-
vided by the Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926 and the Joint
Maritime Board may possiblybe of use if they are adapted to charged
circumstances.
e. Several methods for relieving the load of industrial dis-
0-4300 Pa bu

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
putes may be of use to Military Government. Among them are:
i. Encouragement of region-wide or industry-wide
collective bargaining agreement between trade union federations or
other workers' representatives and industry associations.
ii. Allowance of shop committees genuinely composed of
employee and employer representatives and not dominated by the employer,
until trade unions are established. However, in all matters involving
governmental agencies, where a trade union has been established, it
should be considered the genuine representative of the laborers in
preference to a shop committee in the same establishment.
iii. Establishment of minimum standards of hours
and working conditions for particular industries. (For a more ex-
tended discussion of this problem see Civil Affairs Guides on
Working Conditions in Japan other than Wages and Hours and on Control of
Wages and Hours in Japan.)
iv. Finally, the possible establishment by Military
Government of administrative mechanismsstaffed by Japanese responsible
to Military Government. Within the framework of Military Government
regulations, such administrative bodies would interpret and rule on
collective bargaining agreement , spheres of union jurisdiction and
disputes arising therefrom.
5.
Administration
a. Japanese government agencies which have been set up or
have functioned for the purpose of obstructing free labor organization
and legitimate trade union activities should be abolished.
b. Military Government should declare ineligible for em-
ployment in its labor agencies or as conciliators, mediators, or ar-
bitrators all those who have been directly connected in a responsible
capacity with the obstruction or repression of trade union organiza-
tions and activities.
c. Within Military Government a labor section should be es-
tablished to administer Military Government's policy with regard to
employer-employee relations. Among its functions would be the screen-
ing of undesirable personnel, the selection of arbitrators and the
review of collecting bargaining agreements, arbitration decisions
and rulings by subordinate labor agencies.
0-4300 Po bu

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
II. THE TRADE UNION MOVEMENT AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS
A. Historical Background
Trade unionism developed with the growth of modern Japanese in-
dustry during the early decades of this century. While its numerical
strength relative to the industrial population was never as great as
in most countries its importance was substantial. In 193l, organizt:
workers represented 7.9 percent of all industrial workers. At the peak
of their numerical strength in 1936, trade unions had more than 420,000
members, or 6.9 percent of all industrial workers. The basic industries,
such as communications, transport, etal working and chemicals were, how-
ever, more highly organized than industry as a whole. Forty percent
of the transport workers were in unions (including the powerful Seamen's
Union), and there was almost as large a percentage of organization
among the metal workers. In addition to having this important strength
in basic industries, the high degree of political activity of the trade
unions gave them an importance far beyond their numerical strength.
Additional significance attaches to the fact that the movement
became as large as it did in spite of unusually strong opposition from em-
ployers and harsn repressive measures taken periodically by the govern-
ment. Employers made every effort to carry into large industries the
traditional paternalistic relationship between employer and employee.
This had long existed in handicrafb industries where workers lived
and worked in the homes of their employers, and this strong tradition
made union organization difficult. Furthermore, agricultural over-
population provided an inexhaustible supply of labor for the factories,
and fear of unemployment placed the Japanese laborer in a poor bar-
gaining position.
While tradition and employer opposition retarded the growth of
the labor movement, the chief hindrance to the free development of
unions came not from employers directly but from the police, acting
under the authority of a series of Public Peace Folice and Peace
Preservation Laws and related police regulations beginning in 1900.
Under these laws, the police were empowered to suppress public meetings
and demonstrations, break strikes, forbid picketing, disband unions,
and arrest and execute leaders.
In spite of the impediments placed in the path of Japanese
trade unions by the government and employers, Japanese labor succeeded
in organizing a number of establishments and participated in many
strikes, particularly just after the First World War. Of particular
significance as a show of labor strength at about this time was the
wave of dockyard strikes in the Kobe-Osaka district in 192l which
involved 30,000 trade unionists and lasted for a month.
0-4800 P10 bu

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
The decade of the 'twenties (192l-l931), often called Japan's"liberal
period", witnessed the height of the Japanese trade union movement. Over
the course of that period, labor union membership grew from l00,000 (or 3
percent of the total industrial population) to 350,000 (or about 7 per-
cent) in 1930. This decade also saw the rise of several strong unions,
of which the most prominent were the moderate Nippon Rodo Sodomei (Japan
General Federation of Labor), the right wing Kaiin Kumiai (Seamen's
Union) and the left-wing Nippon Rodo Kumiai Hyogi-kai (Japan Council
of Labor Unions) which was suppressed by the government in 1928. The
'twenties also inaugurated political activity on the part of the unions.
After the passage of the Universal Manhood Suffrage Act in 1925, the
unions hastened to organize political parties which in 1928 polled
489,743 out of a total of some twelve million votes and elected five
representatives to the National Diet.
The period of the early and middle 'thirties was marked by a slow
rise in total union membership together with a small decline in the pro-
portion of workers organized, by a growing conservatism in labor union
policies and aims, and by greatly intensified repression on the part of
the government and the police. The periodic "Communist raids" which
began in 1928 and which resulted in the arrest of some 24, 000 individuals
from 1931 to 1934 alone removed some of the ablest and most aggressive
union leaders from the scene and frightened many others into compliance
with government policies. The Manchuria "Incident" in 193l stimulated
a wave of nationalism and opposition to such "foreign ideas" as labor
unions, and spurred the activities of "patriotic" gangs which had for
some years been attacking union leaders and breaking up labor meetings.
The 'thirties also saw the rise of the Fascist labor unions.
The end of the 'thirties finally saw the disappearance of the
legal trade union movement. In 1936 the government disbanded the con-
servative and relatively inactive Federation of Workers in Government
Arsenals. The advent of the China War in 1937 brought the forced
dissulution of the left-wing Trade Union Council and in 1938 the
passage of the ational Mobilization Act undermined the legal and bar-
gaining position of the labor unions by granting broad authority to
the government to control labor, authority which was subsequently
applied in a series of ministerial ordinances providing for labor
conscription, suspending the Factory Acts (setting minimum working
conditions), and determining other conditions of employment 1/.
By June 1939 trade union membership had fallen to 314, 737 or
only 3.9 percent of all industrial workers.
In 1940 all labor unions
1
See Civil Affairs Guides on Control of Wages and Hours in Japan,
Working Conditions in Japan other than Wages and Hours, and
Organization of the Labor Supply in Japan.
0-4300 P11 bu

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
were forced to disband and all laborers were integrated into the newly
formed Sangyo Hokoku-kai (Industrial Patriotic Associations) or Sampo,
the Japanese equivalent of the German Labor Front.
Although trade union members never comprised more than eight per-
cent of all industrial laborers, the trade union movement was one of the
most hopeful elements in Japanese life. With the exception of some
Fascist and company unions, the trade unions as a group consistently
stood among the most democratic of the myriad Japanese organizations.
In their external policies they generally pressed for greater
liberalism and the democratization of Japanese political, social and
economic institutions, and until the latter thirties they were aligned
with that minority of Japanese opinion which condemned imperialist ag-
gression and war. Internally, individual Japanese trade unions were
organized rather democratically, certainly to a degree beyond most
Japanese organizations. However, in the upper levels of labor organiza-
tion and particularly among the leagues, federations and congresses of
unions, labor o ficials tended to solidify into bureaucratic cliques,
and to become more responsive to the wishes of the government and the
employers and less sensitive to the wishes of their members.
Except for the maritime unions where diecipline was strict, union
discipline was rather irregular and varied greatly. On occasion poor
discipline resulted in the defeat of trade unions involved in industrial
dispubes. Compared to the United States, however, where union disci-
pline is important because it is essential to the observance of collect-
ive bargaining agreements, union discipline in Japan rarely caused
disturbances in peaceful labor relations because collective bargaining
agreements were very few. As a rule, local union autonomy was strong,
and secession of unions from federations and establishment of new af-
filations were frequent. These, however, were usually made on the
basis of political principles rather than immediate economic issues.
1. The Left-Wing Unions
a。
National Council of Japanese Labor Unions (Nippon Rodo
Kumiai Zenkoku Hyogi-kai)
The most efrective left-wing union group which was permitted to
exist in the 1930's was the National Council of Japanese Labor Unions,
known as "Zenkyo" for short, a federation of some 40 unions organised
in 1934 and dissolved in 1937. While its membership never rose above
14,000 in its short lifetime because of ontimuous police obstruction,
its leader Kanju Kato, who had visited the United States in 1935, was
elected to the National Diet as a candidate of the Proletarian Party
0-4800 P12 bu

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-9
(Musan-to). This union was noted for its aggressive activities in at-
tempting to improve working conditions, for its opposition to Japanese
expansion on the continent, for its observance of May Day despite a
police ban, and for its advocacy of a "Popular Front", a phrase later
branded as a "dangerous thought". In Deoember 1937, after the out-
oreak of the China far, both the National Council of Japanese Labor
Unions and the Proletarian Party were ordered disbanded, one week
after some 400 of their more prominent members, including Kato, had
been arrested and imprisoned.
b.
General Federation of Japanese Transport Workers
(Nippon Kotsu Rodo Sodomei)
Another left-wing group was the General Federation of Japanese
Transport Workers. It was composed mainly of street-car workers and
bus drivers in the cities of Tokyo, Osaka and Kobe with a membership
of 30,000 in 65 locals. It was affiliated to the moderate Social
Masses Party and published a monthly magazine called the Japan Trans-
port Workers' Journal."After a Tokyo street-car strike was suppressed
in 1937, however,this group abandoned its militant policy in favor of
"industrial cooperation."
2.
The Conservative Unions
Almost all of the conservative unions were affiliated to the
Japan Trade Union Congress (Nippon Rodo Kumiai Kaigi), which thereby
represented some 260,000 trade union members or about 62 percent of all
trade union members in 1936. Because the Congress did not partici-
pate in day-to-day collective bargaining it was not as active as its
constituent unions. It served principally as a sounding board for
the broader policies of its affiliated unions. As such it supported
the Social Masses Party (Shakai Taishuto) which, although its parent
organizations had opposed Japanese imperialism, came to approve of
Japanese expansion on the continent.
In 1938, the Policy Committee
of the Trade Union Congress approved the organization of "Sampo" or
the "Labor Front" which was then in the planning stage. The principal
unions which composed the Congress were:
a. All Japan General Federation of Labor (Zen-Nippon Rodo Sodomei)
i. History and General Character This organization, which
had 85, 000 members in 1936, dated back to 1912 when it was founded as a
mutual-aid society, called literally the Friendly Love Society (Yuai-kai)
by Bunji Suzuki, a social worker. In l920, it was reorganized somewhat
along the lines of the American Federation of Labor and called the Japan
General Federation of Labor. In 1932 it was merged with the centrist
National Labor Union Federation (Zenkoku Rodo Kumiai Domei) and received
the name All-Japan General Federation of Labor.
0-4300 P13 bu

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
From 1920 to 1923 the Federation was dominated by left-wingers
and was the center of several large strikes, particularly the Kobe-Osaka.
dockyard strikes of 1921. After 1923, however, the Federation grew more
conservative and less aggrassive, possible because its membership was
concentrated in the metal and machinery industries whose prosperity
was tied in closely with the rise of heavy industry and the develop-
ment of a war economy.
In 1930-1931 it participated in a num-
ber of government-sponsored conferences on social policy. The Federa-
tion, after criticizing the Manchurian adventure for some time, came
finally to support Japanese aggression in China. In 1940 repeated
government warnings that it would be dissolved, it decided to dis-
band. Its members, of course, joined the "Sampo".
ii. Structure Structurally, the General Federation in 1938
consisted principally of two regional federations (East Japan and West
Japan) made up of twelve local federations (e.g.. Kyushu, Tokyo, Hyogo,
Aichi, etc.) which in turn were com osed of abo. one hundred local and/
or industrial unions. Since the General Federation was the result
of numerous mergers and affiliations of independent unions on the different
levels, however, the actual state of organization was not that simple.
For example, five national unions of which only the Steel Workers Union
with 25,000 members was important, were members of the General Federation
but did not belong to any of the regional or local federations. In
like manner some local unions belonged to the regional federations, but
not to the local federations. In all, the 1l8 unions which were af-
filiated directly or indirectly with the General Federation had a total
of about 700 locals or an average of about 120 members per local. In
addition to the Steel Workers Union, the Kanto Iron and Steel Union (6,320
members), the Kanto Spinning Workers Union (5,158 members), and the Osaka
Metal Workers Union (9,85O members) were the largest. The General Federa-
tion published two monthlies called "Labor" and "Tomorrow", of which the
first dealth with union matters and the second with cultural topics.
iii. Union Disciplire and Democracy As may be expected,
discipline of the union members in the Federation varied considerably
with the union. Discipline of the General Federation with respect to
its autonomous member organization wam weak. The few collective bar-
gaining agreements in effect made union discipline somewhat less import
ant than in some of the western counbries. The history of this Federation
does contain many cases of dissident groups splitting away, but these
splits were largely on political grounds rather than as a matter of dis-
affection with industrial policies or commitments of the union leaders.
The very large number of unions and locals and relatively mall
membership of each unit together with their relative autonomy tended to
insure a marked degree of democracy within the unions. While the top
layer of officials of the General Bederation appears to have assumed the
character of a rather immovable and irresponsive bureaucratic clique,
the officials of the unions, and particularly of the loeals, appear on
the whole to have been responsive to the union membership.
0-4800 P14b

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
iv. International and political affiliations. The
General Federation was affiliated throughout almost the entire span
of its existence with the International Federation of Trade Unions
whose headquarters were at Amsterdam. Politically, the Federation,
had sponsored the old Social Democratic Party (Shakai Minshu-to)
and was the prime affiliate of its successor, the Social Masses Party,
which in 1937 polled 900,000 votes and elected 37 members to the Nation-
al Diet. The legislative program of the Federation was generally re-
stricted to the advocacy of social legislation and the legal recogni-
tion of trade unions.
b. Japan Seamen's Union (Nippon Kaiin Kumiai)
i. History and General Character While this union
eventually withdrew from the Japan Trade Union Congress, it is gener-
ally grouped with the Congress Unions. It was founded in 192l under
the sponsorship of the Minister of Communications, the Seamen's De-
partment of the General Federation of Labor and a number of small
Seamen's unions. By 1938, it had attained a membership of 115,000
and had almost completely organized Japan's seamen. Even during the
height of left-wing influence in 192l-1923 the Seamen's Union was
markedly conservative and grew more so as time went on. In 1933,
for example, union funds were used to build a Buddhist Temple and
Hamada, the union president, was installed as head priest. In the
same year the Seamen's Union refused to transport Ford trucks which
they believed destined for Chinese troops then resisting Japanese ag-
gression.
ii. Structure Since it was a union rather than a
federation, the organizational structure of the Japan Seamen's Union
was rather simple. In addition to a central headquarters in Kobe,
in 1938 seventeen branches were maintained in major ports--Yokohama,
Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Nagasaki, Otaru, Tobata, Moji, Fushigi, Habu,
Kawaguchi, Dairen, Hakodate, Muroran, Ushina, Wakamatsu and Omuta.
It published a monthly journal called The Seaman.
iii. Discipline and democracy The Seaman's Union, be-
cause it held a virtual monopoly on maritime labor, because it was
strongly backed by the ship owmers and because it shared in the opera-
tion of the seamen's employment exchanges, was in a good position to
exercise strict discipline over its men and there is little doubt that
it did so. The only major rebellion occurred in 1935 when some 10,000
members split off to form a Fascist union, called the New Japan Sea-
men's Union (Shin Nippon Kaiin Kumiai), but before the end of 1937
they had rejoined the fold. Conversely, there appears condiderable
doubt that democracy was very strong in the Seamen's Union. While the
democratic forms were observed, the immense power over hiring and the
backing of the ship owmers which the union officials used to enforce
discipline, made it difficult in practise for dissident movements
within the union aimed against union officials to succeed. The fifteen-
year tenure of Hamada in the president's office bears partial witness to
this.
0-4300 P15 bu

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-12
iv. International and Political Activities Interna-
nationally, the Seamen's Union was represented at the Marine Labor Con-
ference at Genoa in l920, but did not participate actively in internation-
al labor union activities after that date. Politically, the Seamen's
Union was affiliated with the Social Masses Party, but was never pro-
minent in that Party's activities.
c. The Mercantile Marine Officers Association (Kaiin Kyokai)
This organization dominated maritime labor together with the
Seamen's Union and, although not a member of the Trade Union Congress,
it worked closely with the Congress. It was founded as far back as
1896 and by 1938 had attained a membership of 16,000 merchant marine
officers. Its headquarters were situated in Kobe and it maintained
ten branches at the larger ports. In general, it had few of the
characteristics of a trade union and engaged in no strikes or aggressive
activity. Like the Seamen's Union, it was affiliated with the Social
Masses Party, and published a monthly first called "The Seamen's Asso-
ciation Magazine" and later renamed Maritime Management" (Seikai). In
1938 it absorbed the Japan Wireless Operators Society (Nippon Musen
Gishi-kai).
d. Japan Harbor Worker's Union (Nippon Kowan Jugyoin Kumiai)
Founded in 1928, by 1938 this union had a membership of 17,000
in 12 locals. It affiliated with the Social Masses Party and published
a monthly called "The Harbor Worker" (Koju). Its career was rather un-
distinguished, and followed the line of the All Japan Federation of
Labor.
3. Company Unions
Company unions in Japan often took the form of paternalistic
welfare associations set up by the larger firms for their workers.
Complete data on these welfare associations are lacking, but in 1936,
their membership numbered 530,000 in government factories and 817,000
in private establishments or a total of 1,347, 000. While it is im-
possible to separate those whichwere genuinely set up by the workers
from those established by the employer, unlike the trade unions almost
all the societies had the cooperation and support of the employer.
Essentially, they performed the same role as most company unions in
the United States, namely counteracted the influence of the trade
unions. Because of the restricted role of collective bargaining in
Japanese industrial relations and the absence of legal status for
trade unions, the paternalistic welfare associations have seldom
pretended to be trade unions or have even formally competed with
trade unions.
074300 P16 Du

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
4. The Fascist Labor Unions
The Fascist Labor Unions had a rather short existence, roughly
from 1931 to 1938. They were originated by right-wing dissidents
who had seceded from the General Federation and other conservative
unions in 1931 and 1932. In 1936 a merger of some fifteen Fascist
unions produced the National Convention of Patriotic Labor Unions
(Aikoku Rodo Kumiai Zenkoku Konwa-kai). By 1938 the Convention had
a membership of 80,000, including some 124 unions, mostly small,
a large number of which were company unions. So far as can be dis-
covered, the activity of these unions was quite small with regard to
improving wages, hours and working conditions and was confined instead
to ardent support for "Japanism", military imperialism and national
socialism, in pursuance of which these Fascist labor unions were af-
filiated with the reactionary "Japan Reform Party", (Nippon Kakushin-
to), better known as the Japan Industrial Party. During their brief
existence the Fascist trade unions denied the advisability of trade
unionism and quickly dissolyed when the "Sampo" or Labor Front was
originated.
C. Organizations Opposed to Trade Unions
In addition to the pseudo-unions which have been described
above, three types of unofficial organizations devoted a large part of
their efforts to combatting the growth of free trade unions:
1. The Patriotic Societies
These nationalistic and aggressively imperialistic societies,
in the course of their intensive propaganda and assassination campaigns
against any liberal and democratic ideas, found themselves in violent
conflict with trade unions from the beginning. While their members and
officials were not usually businessmen, a large part of their financial
resources was derived from the contributions of big industrialists.
Some were little more than gangs of toughs, while others were well or-
ganized and highly respected, as for example the Ex-servicemen's League.
Typical organizations, such as the League for State Conatruction
(Kenkoku-tai) and the Great Japan League of Justice (Dai Nippon
Seigi-dan), participated directly in breaking up strikes and trade
union meetings with violence. In addition, during the 'thirties
these patriotic societies sponsored fascist-type trade unions and
succeeded in drawing many workers out of the genuine trade unions.
2. Industrial Associations
Among the most powerful of the industrial associations which
were organized by employers in order to protect their interests against
the activities of labor were the Japan and Osaka Industrial Clubs (Nippon
Kogyo Kurabu and Osaka Kogyo Kurabu). In 1923 representatives of
42 industrial associations met and established the National Federation
G-4300 P17 bu

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
-14ー
of Industrial Organizations (Zenkoku Sangyo Dantai Rengokai). Its main
objective was to combat the growing influence of the labor movement
and to unite the large employers against the trade unions. Its program
was the promotion of "class harmony", the maintenance of the family
system, "protection" of small industries, development of company union-
ism and employer-dominated welfare associations, and the elevation of
the "moral and living standards" of workers.
3.
Harmonization Societies
These societies which were established to preach "class collabor-
ation" in opposition to Harxist "class conflict" were theoretically open
equally to employers and laborers, but were in fact composed almost en-
tirely of employers. By far the most prominent of this type was the
Harmonization Society (Kyocho-kai). Alarmed by the rise of labor dis-
putes just after the First World War, a Commission for Social Services
sponsored by the Department of Home Affairs recormended the setting up
of a non-official organization which would help to "end the bitter anta-
gonism between employers and employees." On 22 December, 1919, the
Harmonization Society was incorporated for the purpose of studying means
of bringing capital and labor together. From the beginning the govern-
ing body of the Harmonization Society was controlled by representatives
of big industry.
Heading it were Prince Tokugawa and Viscount Shibu-
sawa, and amoung its directors were Inoue, president of the Bank of Japan,
Wada of the Fuji Spinning Company, and Muto of the Kanegafuchi Spinning
Company. The Harmonization Society never attracted an appreciable labor
following. in view of its official personnel. While it offered its ser-
vices freely to arbitrate strikes, it was rarely accepted by trade unions,
and finally restricted its activities to conciliating disputes involving
unorganized workers, publishing journals of "information" and distribut-
ing harmonization propaganda. Perhaps its most effectual achievement
was its sponsorship of the "Labor Front."
D. The Labor Front
Industrial relations at the present time are handled almost
entirely by the Industrial Patriotic Associations(Sangyo Hokoku-kai)
organized into a national federation and commonly known as "Sampo".
In essentials, "Sampo" is analogous to the German Labor Front. "Sampo"
is not a trade union and is not designed to assist the workers to im-
prove their economic status. it is, instead, designed to regiment
labor to the service of the state and the employer.
1. History
"Sampo" was originated when the Harmonization Society in
February 1938 established the Industrial Patriotic Leugue (Sangyo
Hokoku Remmei), a group agitating for the organization of patriotic
associations in the factories which would press for the cooperation
of capital and labor to prosecute the China War. Its leaders in-
cluded representatives of the Social Masses' Party (Shakai Taisshu-to
and leading industrialists of the National Federation of Industrial
Associatione.
0-4300 P18 bu

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
In l939 the government officially sponsored the Patriotic Associations
(Sangyo Hokoku-kai) in the factories and the initiating organization (the
Sangyo Hokoku Remmei) became a propaganda arm of the government. By June
1939, there were 4,657 associations with 1,691,446 members in plants with
50 or more workers. In August l940 the government officially took over
direction of the associations, and placed them under the Labor Policy Divi-
sion of the Labor Bureau in the Ministry of Public Welfare. All labor
organizations which had not already become merged with the associations
were liquidated. By March 1941, some 70,000 associations had been es-
tablished with a membership of over 5,000,000. In 1942, the direction
of"Sampo" was turned over to the totalitarian political party, the Im-
perial Rule Assistance Association, which in April 1945 was dissolved.
It is not knowm precisely who directs "Sampo" at present, but it is be-
lieved to have been placed under the Civilian Volunteer Corps.
2. Structure
The basic unit of the "Sampo" is the association in the individual
industrial establishment. Generally speaking, there is ane association for
each enterprise. All people connected with the enterprise, i.e., managers,
engineers, clerks and workers are eligible to join, and the proprietor
or factory manager is usually the president of the association. Member-
ship is maintained by indirect compulsion, the prefectural governors be-
ing held responsible for seeing to it that every establishment with 50
workers or more has an association.
On a local level, the district police control all the associations
within the district. The individual associations are combined into
federations on a prefectural level with administrative responsibility
placed on the prefectural governor. The prefectural associations belong
to the national federation (Dai Nippon Sangyo Hokoku-kai) which was es-
tablished in 1940. The Minister of Welfare was the ex-officio national
president up until the time "Sampo" was placed under the IRAA; it is
not known whether this has been changed. Its direction by the TRAA
appears to have been exercised through one of the two departments of the
IRAA which dealt with labor, the "Organization Depart: ent", which was in
charge of labor supply, or the "Increased Munitions Production Department",
which had charge of labor questions. The central committee of "Sempo"
is composed of heads of big business concerns. No pretense of labor
representation is made.
3。
Functions
"Sampo" has three general functions: to convey the illusion that
laborers and employers are united in service to the state and prosecution
of the war, to mobilize and regiment laborers for purposes of war pro-
duction, and to act as a safety valve by adjusting labor grievances.
The first function is carried out by meand of voluninous propa-
ganda asserting (a) that assistance to the Emperor is pararount and (b)
that each industrial enterprise is a family. The activities carricd on
G-4300 P19 bu

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
along this line consist of spiritual solidarity meetings, measures to in-
crease industrial efficiency, cooperation with special national activi-
ties (e.g., the recovery of waste materials, air raid drills, purchase of
national bonds) and round table conferences to promote worker-employer
understanding. The mobilization of labor by "Sampo" for war production
is centered in disciplinary activities in the factories and in its In-
dustrial Patriotic Service Corps which recruited temporarily unemployed
workers for war jobs. Finally the association brings minor grievances
to the attention of the employer, carries on certain welfare activities
and makes unemployment relief payments for workers in factories closed
down because of the war.
E. Militarization of Labor
The work of "Sampo" in supplanting and thereby preventing free
trade unionism was reinforced by the Factory and Workshop Supervision
Ordinance (Kojo Jigyo Kanri-rei) of March 18, 1944. In accordance
with this ordinance, which was applied in September 1944, labor in "vital
factories" and mines is placed under the control of a Munitions Manage-
ment Office in the Munitions Ministry. All workers in selected war
plants and in about 200 mines are ranked in accordance with a system
of military ranks, with the lower saluting the higher. Discipline
is on the military model and the shop foreman have almost unlimited
disciplinary powers. The president of the company or manager of the
plant is called the production leader (seisan sekininsha) and is given
full control of all labor questions in the plant. (For further details
see Civil Affairs Guide on Working Conditions other than Wages and
Hours in Japan).
F. Political Activities of Labor
Ever since 1925, Japanese trade unions have been deeply involved in
political action through formal affiliations with political parties. In
1937, the labor parties succeeded in electing 42 members to the Diet and
polling a million votes or almost one-tenth of the total vote of a little
more than ten million. (See Section II above and Civil Affairs Guide
on Political Parties for further details). With the dissolution of the
political parties and the establishment of the Imperial Rule Assistance
Association, however, all legal political activity of labor ceased.
G-4300 P20 bu

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
III. THE PATTERN OF JAPANESE INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
A. Paternalistic Tradition
Paternalism in industrial relations has been particularly strong in
Japan because of the special cohesiveness of the Japanese family system,
the paternalistic attitude of the government in general, and the recent
memory of feudal master craftsman - apprentice relationship which per
sisted in a large number of establishments even up to the Pacific War.
This natural strength of the paternalistic tradition has been constantly
fortified by propaganda on the part of the employers and the government
in a consistent effort to counteract free labor organizations. This
paternalism was expressed concretely in the dormitory system which among
other things, prevented labor organization and contact with liberal thoughts;
in welfare services which enabled the employer to pay lower wages; and
in the family workshop to which much work was subcontracted and in which
long hours and low wages were especially prevalent. It was particular-
ly evident in the failure to institute a system of genuine unemployment
insurance and in reliance instead on discharge allowances granted by the
employer and on the willingness and ability of rural relatives to care
for the unemployed worker. Less concretely the paternalistic tradition
resulted in a feeling of deference towards the employer, and a stigma
of ingratitude placed on anyone who dared strike or otherwise dispute
the authority of the employer. Paternalism in industrial relations
was finally given legal effect in the organizational structure of
"Sampo" or the labor front, where the employer or plant manager
was generally made the association leader.
Indications are clear, however, that paternalism was swiftly losing
its force among the workers as an accepted mode of industrial relations
before the China War. This was particularly evident during the depression
of 1929-32 when at the cost of numerous strikes many firms shirked their
paternalistic responsibilities, e.g., the practice of discharging permanent
employees and rehiring them as "temporary employees to avoid giving
various welfare allowances. It is quite likely that the economic
changes occasioned by the war, particularly military and labor conscription,
demobilization and large scale job shifting, resulting in the dissolution
of individual employer-employee paternal relationship, have already
weakened and will further weaken paternalism.
B. Police Interference with Trade Unions
In addition to paternalism, the government and the employers have
leaned heavily on repressive laws anu the use of police power as a de-
vice to obstruct the free development of trade unions.  Deriving their
powers from a series of sweeping laws, ordinances and regulations, be-
tween 1920 and 1938, the Japanese police arrested more than 60,000 per-
sons suspected of "rodical" activities or thoughts, dissolved numerous
0-4300 P21 bu

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
trade unions and broke up hundreds of trade union meetings. With the
advent of the China War in 1937 a new wave of terror was unleashed;
more than 2,O00 leftist labor leaders, including Kanju Kato, were
arrested between Novenber 1937 and February 1938. Since 1941 the
terror has been still further intensified.
1.
The Peace Preservation Law (Jian Iji-ho)
The Peace Preservation Law,the current version of which was passed
in 194l, provides the overall blanket authority by means of which the
police have been able to obstruct free trade union organization. This
law was first passed in 1925 and succeeded the notorious Section 17 of
the Public Peace Police Act of 19o0. The latter had in very broad terms
forbidden strikes, picketing, and the normal forms of union recruitment,
and was repealed in 1926. Under the Peace Preservation Law of 1941 the
death penalty is provided for officials or leaders of associations
which advocate changing the "national polity" (Kokutai), or of asso-
ciations which prepare for or which assist associations advocating
changing the national polity. Needless to say, no precise definition
of "national polity" has ever been arrived at; in general, anything
opposed to the "Japanese spirit" of obedience to authority may be con-
strued as contrary to the "national polity." In addition, penal
servitude terms of varying lengths are provided for convoking meetings,
discussing or instigating actions, propagandizing, creating confusion and
disorderly conduct, and soliciting, contributing or receiving money
all with the object of changing the "national polity". Somewhat
lighter terms are provided for organizing associations or related
activities for the purpose of "disavowing" the "national polity", spread-
ing disrespect for the Shinto Shrines and the Imperial Household, and
"disavowing" the private property system. Curiously enough, the Peace
Preservation Law pretends to apply to all persons of whatever nationality,
and to all prohibited activities no matter where in the world committed.
2.
Protective Surveillance for Thought Offenses Law (Shiso-han
Hogo Kangatsu-ho)
The Peace Preservation Law is carried even further by this act of
1936 and regulations pursuant thereto which impose a close two-year
surveillance on anyone who receives a suspended sentence on charges of
violating the Peace Preservation Law or who has completed a sentence
imposed for violation of the Peace Prezervation Law. By meand of this
law the place of residence of labor leaders may be restricted, and their
friends and their correspondence closely watched or prahibited.
3。
National Mobilization Law (Kokka Sodoin-ho)
Sweeping wartime powers over the entire Japanese economy were
granted the Japanese government by the National Mobilization Act of 1938,
amended in 194l. Certain articles give the government special wartime
powers, even beyond those utilized in the Peace Preservation Law, to
-4300 P22 bu

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
control and break up trade unions. Subject to application by Imperial
Ordinance, Article 4 provides for labor conscription, Article 6 gives
the government power to prescribe wage rates and working conditions, and
Article 7 gives the government authority to prevent or settle, by any
means, labor disputes and lockouts, and to suspend or alter any other
laws in so doing.
4. Public Peace Police Law (Jian Keisatsu-ho)
The provisions of the Public Police Law with regard to public
meetings have also been used repeatedly to break up trade union meetings.
Up until 194l, and in accordance with the Pablic Peace Police Act, trade
union meetings could be disbanded by the police after they had been
formally opened, but on December 18, 194l a Special Emergency Law
(Horitsu No.97 of Dec. 18, 194l) requiring permits in advance was enacted.
Further legislation since then prohibits unlicensed public meetings for
whatever purpose, if more than 3 persons attend.
5.
Police Crimes Punishments Ordinance (Keisatsu-han Shobatsu-rei)
Certain proviaions of this Home Ministry Ordinance of 1900, re.
vised in 1908 and 1919, have been consistently interpreted to hamper
union recruitment, to prevent picketing and break up strikes. They
include penalties for walking back and forth in places where one does
not reside and has no business, for forcibly requesting an interview
or following another threateningly, for obstructing a person's movements
by forcibly standing in front of him or beside him, or for committing
mischief with regard to another person's business.
6.
Repressive Police Agencies
Police activities in Japan are so widespread that points of con-
tact with trade unions are numerous. (See Civil Affairs Handbook,
Japan, Section 14: Public Safety) . Aside from the individual policeman
who enforces all the laws, including those repressing trade unions and
collective bargaining, there are a number of police and prosecuting
agencies which have speddally obstructed free labor organizations.
These are:
a. The Special Higher Police (Tokubetsu Koto Keisatau) sometimes
referred to as the "ideational police."  This organization has been
specially charged with the enforcement of the Peace Preservation Laws,
and has been responsible for arresting tens of thousands of persons,
including numerous trade union and labor leaders, on the grounds that
they disavowed or conspired to change the "national polity" or the pri-
vate property system. Admiristratively the Special Higher Police are
directed by the Peace Preservation Section (Hoan-ka) of the Police Bureau
(Keiho-kyoku) of the Home Ministry. In actuality, the greatest share
of their work is performed by the Special Higher Police Division (Toku-
betsu Koto Keisatsu-bu) of the Metropolitan Police Board (Keishi-cho).
In addition, each of the prefectural governments, with the exception
G-4300 P23 bu

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
sentatives of the trade unions found it difficult to get a hearing from
the employers, while those committees which had access to the employer
usually refused to recognize the existence of the trade unions. When
the Japanese Government Railways and the Harmonization Society became
active advocates of shop committees, it became plain that shop committees
were being utilized as a device to counteract the growth of the trade
unions, and labor leaders lost interest in them. By 1929, there were
112 shop committees in Japan, covering almost 320,000 workers, but they
were comparatively inactive and were usually dominated by the employer.
Little was heard of shop committees in the 'thirties and they are now
believed to have been absorbed into "Sampo". While the organization of
shop committees has been generally approved by the Japanese trade unions
in theory, the existence of shop com ittees in fact has been regarded
with deep suspicion.
3. Mechanisms for Settling Capitat-Labor Disputes
In general, mechanisms for settling industrial disputes in Japan,
prior to "Sampo" and the prohibition of strikes, consisted of ad hoc
arrangements by certain officials and semi-official agencies concerned
with keeping the public peace and maintaining production. As a rule,
these agencies shared the strong bias of the government in favor of the
employer and against the worker, particularly during the latter 'thirties
when any stoppage of production interfered with the development of
Japan's military power. The increasing trend towards the maintenance of
industrial peace at labor's expense is indicated by the sharp increase
in the percentage of police intervention in arbitration of labor-capital
disputes from 27 percent in 1931 to:71 percent in 1938, 89 percent in
1939 and 94 percent in the first nine months of 1940 as shom by
partial statistics (Appendix C). By 1939 labor disputes were almost
all considered by the government to be infractions of the peace and
strikes to be tantamount to treason.
a. Arbitration Boards
Arbitration Boards were the only overall instrument established
by Japanese law for the specific purpose of settling labor-capital dis-
putes by mutual adjustment, but available records show that they were
utilized in only four disputes in fourteen years.
According to the
Labor Disputes Adjustment Act (Rodo Sogi Chotei-ho) of 1926, in the case
of a dispute in public utilities or government enterprises, arbitration
was to be compulsory; in all other cases, arbitration was to be invoked
at the request of both parties. With certain exceptions, administration
was placed in the hands of the prefectural governors, and later shifted
to arbitration officials of the Bureau of Social Welfare of the Home
Department, which bureau subsequently became the Department of Welfare.
Each Arbitration Board was to consist of three representatives of each
of the parties to the disputes who were to agree on the selection of three
0-4900 P24 bu

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
only 13 percent of all strikes as compared to 71 percent in 1931.
Labor activity as revealed in strikes has not been halted by the war.
On the contrary, even though a temporary decline was brought about by the
opening of the China War, strikes in 1939 were more numerous than in
1938. The fragmentary evidence that has been allowed to come out of
Japan since 1940 indicated that an active underground leadership of
Japanese labor has continued into the year's of war. On March 5, 1941,
a big strike involving 100,000 workers was reported to have broken
out in the Kobe war industries. According to the report, the strike
covered the big war plants of the itsubishi and the Kawasaki dockyards
and continued for five days, ending when troops suppressed the strike
and shot four of the leaders. In August a strike of 20,000 workers
was reported in the Mitsubishi airplane plant at Nagoya, but it was
also suppressed. A smaller strike of 3,ooo workers at the Kokura Ar
senal occurred in September where the police apparently found it ex-
pedient not to make reprisals. In October of 194l, a big strike
which involved joint action by industrial workers and salaried em-
ployees, was alleged to have taken place in the heavy industrial center
of Tsurumi in Yokohama with over 20,000 workers participating. Though
for later years the evidence is still more fragmentary, smaller strikes
have been reported frequently. Although not strictly trade union in
nature, a general feeling of labor disaffection was indicated as late as
1944 by food riots repcrted in Kagoshima and a mass meeting of 40,000
persons in Tokyo, which according to the Osaka Mainichi quoted in
Chungking, was sponsored by a new Workers Party.
The meeting was broken
up by the police, and the party was disbanded.
D。
Collective bargaining, shop committees and mechanisms
for settling Capital-Labor disputes
1。
Collective Bargaining
Partly bacause of the poor legal status of the unions, collective
bargaining has played a relatively insignificant role in Japanese
labor relations. Only in the case of the seamen's unions have col-
lective bargaining agreements been of significance. Of the 136,000
workers covered in 122 collective bargaining agreements at the end of
March 1936, seamen accounted for 117, 000. Aside from the Seamen's
Union agreement with the ship owmers,and the collective agreement be-
tween Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Company and the All-Japan Ceneral
Federation of Labor, almost all agreements were in the smaller enter
prises, i.0., less chan 500 workers.
2.
Shop Committees
Shop committees, sometimes called "works committees, have
also been comparatively unimportant in the pattern of Japanese in-
dustrial relations. Durinf the early years immediately after the
First World War, the trade unions evinced considerable interest in the
establishment of employer-employee committees which would settle intre
plant grievances. However, the shop committees which included repre-
0-4300 P25 bu

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-20
of Kyoto, has a Special Higher Police.
b. The Peace Preservation Police (Hoan Keisatsu) This
organization has had as a part of its duties, the regulation of public
meetings, the adjustment of labor disputes and the enforcement of the
Factory and Mining Acts. In these capacities it has broken strikes
and dissolved labor meetings. Up until quite recently it was one of the
most important parts of the Metropolitan Police Board, and in addition
had separate existence in several of the prefectures, but no separate
direction in the national police bureau. An unconfirmed report of 1944
indicates that it has been abolished, and that its functions have
been assigned among other police organizations.
c. The ilitary Police or Cengarmerie (Kempei). Prior to
the Pacific War, the Military Police had no special anti-labor functions,
but recently captured orders indicate that the Military Police are to keep
in close touch with the authorities of military production plants and
to gather accurate information concerning the organization of labor unions,
thoughts of employees, labor agitation, the speech, behavior and outside
contacts of dissatisfied workers, etc. In addition,the military police
have been authorized to use force to suppress disputes and stop the
spreading of propaganda.
d. The Thought Section (Shiso-ka) of the Criminal Affairs
Bureau (Keiji-kyoku) in the Ministry of Justice has handled prosecu-
tions under the Peace Preservation Laws.
C. Disputes and Strikes
Despite the paternalistic tradition and police repression, strikes
have long been a part of the Japanese industrial scene. The earliest
strike in Japan took place as far back as 1872, and as early as 1907
troops had to be called in to suppress a particularly violent strike in the
Ashio and Besshi copper mines. The great dockyard strike of l92l in-
volved 30,ooo participants for one month and was finally suppressed with
the aid of saber-wielding police. Recurrent strikes which, according
to official statistics (and therefore probably underestimated), involved
from 30,000 to 125,000 workers per year, took place in the 'thirties.
Generally speaking, because of the poor bargaining position of
workers as well as their meager resources and constant police inter-
ference on the side of the employer, Japanese strikes have been of
short duration and have resulted in defeat or compromise for the workers.
Because of police repression they have often taken unique forms, e.g.,
shrine processions and slow downs. With the growing conservatism on
the part of the labor union leaders and their disinclination to embroil
themselves with the police, the trade union role as a apearhead of
strikes was greatly curtailed and disaffected laborers resorted to
strikes without union assistance. By 1938 unions were involved in
0-4800 P26 bu

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
additional members. These boards were given investigatory powers and
were committed to secrecy. Decisions were not binding, but in case
of failure to settle the dispute the boards' decision, together with
the minority report, was to be made public. However, for diverse
reasons the boards were ha'ily ever invoked.
b. Department of Welf re Arbitration Officials
With the establishment of the Bureau of Social Welfare in the Home
Department in 1922, a mumber of arbitration officials (choteikan) were
appointed in various localities, and their number was increased when the
Labor Disputes Adjustment Act was passei in 1926. When the Departaent
of Welfare was set up in January 1938, trese officials were transferred
to it. Arbitration by these officials was usually voluntary and had
some measure of success, but in the course of the thirties they came
to be supplanted by the police.
c. Police Arbitration
From the standpoint of preserving peace, the police have always
been authorized to deal with labor disputes and during the 'thirties their
intervention in disputes became increasingly frequent until in 1939
89 percent of all disputes settled by "arbitration" were the result of
police action. The prefectural and metropolitan police headquarters have
special police officers in charge of labor relations attached to the
Factory Section of the Peace Preservation Police. (For organizational
structure of Japanese Police System see Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan, Sec-
tion 14: Public Safety). As indicated above, police actions in disputes
were usually biased in favor of the employer, and police "arbitration"
was almost always expected to insure the defeat of the laborers.
d.
Joint Maritime Board (Xaiji Kyodo-kai)
In dispites involving seamen the Joint Maritime Board had legal
authority to effect conciliation. This 'oard was set up at the end of
1926 with headquarters in Yobe and consisted of 3 representatives of the
Seamen's Union, 3 representatives of the Vercantile Marine Officers Asso-
ciation ana 6 representatives of the shipowmers. In accoriance with the
Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926, the Minister of Conmunications was
empowered to set up special arbitration boarus in aisutes involving
seamen, but in practice they were never convokad and the Joint Maritime
Board has had a monopoly on conciliating labor disputes. It set-
tled the ssanen's strike of ly23 by the aacption of minimum Wage rates
and prevented a strike in January 1931. It was sonewhat less successful
in 1935 in dealing with the strike of the Hew Semen's Union, which was
not represented on the Board.
Special regulations regurding maritime strikes have been in-
posed by Article 41 of the Seamen's act of august 13, 1937 ani the minis-
terial ordinance pursuant thereto. The Minister of Conmunications
G-4300 P27 bu

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
or his nominees were empowered to institute conciliation procedures
without requestafrom either side. In addition, imprisonment up to
one year or a five-hundred yen fine were imposed for work stoppages
in port which incurred in the course of a collective dispute without
24 hours notice or within a week after the beginning of collective
bargaining negotiations.
e.
Other Mechanisms
The unofficial Harmonization Society, as indicated above, has
regularly offered its services to both sides to settle industrial dis-
putes, but has usually withdrawn from difficult cases. In general, it
has been distrusted by the trade unions with the result that its efforts
have been confined to cases in which unorganized labor was involved.
Local and prefectural officials, particularly prefectural govern-
ors, have occasionally offered their services or have been invited to
act as impartial mediators.
Their record of success has not been out-
standing.
0-4300 Psa bu

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
-25 -
IV. PROGRAM FOR MILITARY GOVERNMENT
A. Conditions likely to Confront Military Government
Upon its occupation of Japan or any major part thereof, ilitary
Government will be confronted with an industrial population which, be-
cause it will be in bad economic circumstances, will be compelled to
seek adjustments in its terms of employment. It is expected that in
the course of their demands for adjustments, the Japanese laborers
will tend to form organizations to represent them in dealing with the
employer and that numerous disputes will arise, some of which will
be attended by strikes or lockouts.
1. Poor economic position of the Jananee worker
In pre-wer "normal" years, partly as a result of a consistent
government bias in favor of the employer, the standard of living of the
Japanese worker with few exemptions vas low and, even taking into account
the difference in the Oriental manner of living, was not very far above
the subsistence level. At the termination of hostilities, the economic
position of the Japanese laborers will have deteriorated to a consi-
derable extent because of (a) the cumulative effect of diverting en
ever larger share of the national product to munitions of war, an effect
which hes been apparent in the lowered consumption standards of Japan-
ese laborers in the last few years (b) the extreme strain pleced on
the Japanese economy by the lat few months of a disastrous war and
the enormous destruction inflicted by air-raids, (c) widespread unem-
ployment and a sudden reduction in working hours accompanied by a
sudden decline in earnings end (a) the probability that workers' savings
will be largely frozen in unredeemable war bonds.
It may further be anticipated that the existing terms of employ-
ment tad as they will be upon the termination of hostilities, will
probably grow progressively worse for some time thereafter. It is
probable that a number of employers will take advantage of the sur-
plus labor merket (which will undoubtediy accompany the shut-dovn of
war production) to reduce labor costs through such devices as evading
payment of dismissal allowences, cutting wazes, etc. rurthermore, if
inflation takes place to any degree, s may be expected, it is quite
probable that continual rises in the prices of the necessities of life
will far outstrip increases in wages. (See Civil Affairs Guide on the
Control of Inflation in Japan).
-4800 P2 u

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
- 26 -
2. Probable Rise of Trede Uniong
Under such conditions it is clear that throughout the occupation
period, Japanese laborers will in many cases be compelled to seek ad-
justment in their terms of employment. In view of their poor indivi-
dual bargaining position, and on the basis of pre-war trade union
history and the reported war-time underground labor activity, it may
be anticipated that many of the Japanese laborers will organize them-
selves in order to present demands for such adjustments more effectively.
The trade unions which will arise as a result may be expected to concern
themselves primarily with collective bergaining for better wages, hours
and working conditions, and secondarily with mutuel economic protection.
Aside from these strictly trade union functions, some other union
activities may be expected. For example, the close connections of trade
unions with labor parties in the past may be expected to result in
a certain amount of activity along the lines of political education and
agitation. Such activities are boyond the ecope of this Guide. (For
political activities of labor unions, see Civil Affairs Guide on Polit-
ical Parties in Japan).
3. Disrutes end Strikes
The expected labor demands for adjustments in wages, hours and work-
ing conditions together with the attempts of the employers to drive down
labor costs may lead to numeroue labor disputes. Such disputes will
aleo be stimulated by the general feeling of sociel unrest which will
prevail and by the unwillingress on the part of labor to submit to em-
ployer pressure as easily as heretofore. On the other hand, the gener-
al economic situation will be unfavorable to the laborer and the mass
unemployment which will undoubtedly exist will prove to be a powerful
deterrent to the use of strikes to win disputes. In general, it may be
expected that strikers without serious justification will be fcw, and that
a general wave of walkouts will not take place.
B. Concern of Military Government with Industrial Relatione
In the relations between capital and labor which will prevail
during occupation, Military Government will have two primary concerns:
(1) to establish conditions favoreble to the emergence of democratic
organizations and ideas and (2) to ensure the contimued operation of
industries and services essentisl to militery operations and security.
C. Recommended General Courses of Action for Military Government
To obtain the objective of & democratic and orderly system of
labor-capitel relations within the limits imposed by militery security,
Military Government will find it desirable to apply the following
0-4800 P30 bu

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
general principles with regard to trade unions and collective bargaining:
1. Military Government should permit and look with favor upon the free
orgenization of democraticelly organized and managed trade unions and
should remove ell legel obstacles to such organization.
In addition to affording a means for the democratic expression of
the laborers' opinion on matters that vitally effect them, such a
policy vwould tend to induce that importent segment of the laboring
population which belonged to unions less than ten years ago to cooper-
ate with liilitary Government snd would strengthen the elements in
Japen which were among the most consistent end effective advocates
of democracy in the past.
2. Military Government should encourage collective bargaining between
freely chosen representatives of the employees on the one hand and em-
ployers on the other for adjustment of wages, hours and working condi-
tions.
Such collective bergaining can introduce an element of stability
into labor-capital reletions, particulerly if it results in collectively
bargaining agreements enforced by union discipline. Under economic
conditions which will prevail the individual Japanese worker will have
virtuelly no bargaining power by himself and will be compelled to bar-
gain collectively to improve his tarms of employment.
3. Military Government should seek to reduce the number of industrial
disputes particularly strikes and lockouts.
Since disputes will not affect Military Government interests and
since personnel will be limited, it will be to the interest of Mili-
tary Government to ignore most individuel strikes and lockouts. How-
ever, a large number of industrial disputes may provide a potential
threat to the maintenance of peace and order, and it will therefore
probably be to the interest of Militery Government to assist in the
establishment of agencies designed to settle industrial disputes.
4. Military Government should prohibit strikes and lockouts in
industries considered essential to military operations or the security
of Militery Government.
Under no circumstances should any stoppage of this sort resulting
0-4800 P81 bu

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
from a breakdown in labor relations be permitted.
D. Recommended Program for Military Government
In order to apply these principles, the following program is
recommended for action:
1. Trade Unions and the Freedom to Organize
a. Proclamation of general policy towards trade unions
As soon as it is practicable, Military Government should issue
a general proclamation racognizing the freedom of industrial and agri-
cultural workers to join trade unions or other organizations of their
owm choice for purposes of improving their terms of employment and
mutual protection.
Such a proclamation would serve the double purpose of stimulat-
ing the voluntary organization of workers along democratic lines and of
laying the basis for subsequent action against those who would obstruct
such organization. In view of the attractiveness which free organiza-
tions have had for an important segment of the industrial labor popula-
tion, such a proclamation may very well have great value in inducing the
cooperation of Japanese labor with Military Government.
It should be made clear, however, that the freedom or organize
granted by this proclamation does not extend to organizations set up
for purposes other than the legitimate trade union functions indicated
above, and that organization for other purposes would be covered by
other Military Government proclamations, orders, and regulations.
Specifically, labor associations of any kind operated for militaristic
or nationalistic purposes should be prohibited.
b. Freedom of Speech
The freedom to organize and bargain collectively implies
the freedom of speech. Therefore, access to public channels of in-
formation and opinion such as the radio and press, should be granted on
a non-discriminatory basis to trade unione as long as the exercise
of such freedom is in accord with military security.
c. Abrogation of Repressive Legislation
Military Government should abrogate as soon as possible all
laws which prevent or have the effect of preventing (1) the free organ-
isation of trade unions for the purposes of improving wages, hours and
0-4800 P32 bu

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
-29 -
working conditions and mutual assistance and (2) activities of trade
unions, which are otherwise legitimate, directed to those ends.
Ordinances, regulations, announcements end orders which have
been utilized to obstruct trade union organizations and activity are
numerous and permeate all of Japanese life. It will be impossible to
abrogate all of the detailed rules on verious levels, but almost all
of these regulations and the ections taken pursuant thereto derive their
authorization from a relatively smell number of laws which if abrogated
would have the effect of nulliryilg all of the detailed rules and agen-
cies set up to enforce them. On the other hand, feilure to abrogate
these lews would either nullify Militery Government policy towards
the free organization of trade unions or would create doubt in the cub-
lic mind that the freedom to organize Would be protected by Militery
Government.
The lews vhich are spccirically recormended for immediete
abrogetion, together with any subsequent amendments, are: (See Appendix
D for text)
1. Peace Preservation La: (Jian Iji-ho) of 1941
This is the besie lur trou i which tens of thousands
of persons have been inprisoned  "dengerous thoughts" and from which
the special hirher po ice or "i entional police" draw much of their
authority. Its continued existence ould meke trade union organization
impossible.
i1. Protective Surveillence for Thought Offenses Law (Shiso-
han Hogo Kensetsu-ho) end the Ro ulations Relative to the Protective
Surveillance for Thou-ht Offenses L w (Shiso-han Hogo Kansatsu-ho ni
kansuru kisoku), both of 1936.
1ii. Articles 4, 6 ans 7 icnel Mobilization Act
(Kokka Sodoin-ho) of 1938 as revisee in 1941.
These articles  rovi:: bianket wartime authority for the
government to take any ection at all o reak strikes, fix wages and
disband unions. Even thouh eranted is emergency wartime
power, it vould be best to sbree  ticles altogether rather than
declare the lew inoperative.
iv. Articles  and  r e Poulic Peace Police Law (Jian
Keisetsu-ho) of 1900 as anended in 1922, 19.6, snd 1941.
Many of he provisions of this low will probably be sus-
pended if not abrogated altorother  the Military Govemment in connect-
ion with its ceneral policy towards politicel groups. However, the above
0-4300 P33 bu

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
- 30 -
mentioned articles, which give the police blanket authority to pro-
hibit or disperse any meetings on the grounds of maintaining publio
order, have been used repeatedly to break up union meetings and are,
therefore, recommended for abrogation in this Guide. It should be added
that if the provisions regarding political meetings are not abrogated by
Military Government, the term "political affairs" (seiji) as used elee-
where in this law should not be construed to include trade union acti-
vities.
v. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1 and Paragraphs 5 and
31 of Article 2 of the Police Crimes Punishments Ordinance (Keisatsu-han
Shobatsu-rei) of 1908, as amended in 1919.
These provisions have been specifically applied to prevent
picketing, and should be repealed. The remaining provisions of the law
are entirely adequate to maintain publio order.
vi. The Factory and Workshop Supervision Ordinance (Kojo Jigyo
Kanri-re1) of March 18, 1944.
It is not known whether the legal authority for this or-
dinance is conveyed by the National Mobilization Law. If so, its repeal
will automatically follow that of the National Mobilization Law. If
not, it will be necessary to repeal this ordinance separately.
d. Release of labor prisoners
All persons who have been imprisoned under the foregoing
laws for activity or "thought" in connection with trade unions and other
labor organizations should be released at once.
The speed with which such release is effected is likely to exert
considerable influence in inducing the active cooperation with Military
Government of former trade union members and a large portion of the
industrial labor population.
0-4800 P84 bu

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
. Dissolution of "Sampo" and associated organizations
The Industrial Patriotic Associations ("Sampo") and
associated organizations should be dissolved.
"Sampo" was created primarily for the purpose of destroying the
free trade union movement, and its entire organizational structure
is designed to prevent democratic labor organization and collective
bargaining. It has been an important cog in the Japanese totaltarian
war effort and its leaders, who are neither laborers nor representatives
of labor, have been among the most violent partisans of Japanese ag-
gression and war. If not dissolved,"Sampo"would be a menace to the se-
curity of Military Government and to continued military operations.
Associated organizations which are equally detrimental to the
objectives of democratic labor relations and military security and
which should, therefore, also be dissolved are:
i. The successor agencies to the labor sections in the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association (See also Civil Affairs Guide on
Political Parties) which direct the activities of "Sampo".
ii. The Harmonization Society, which sponaored "Sampo".
iii. The "patriotic" societies which supported "Sampo"
actively. While these societies will be treated more fully in other
Guides, special reference is made to the "patrictic" societies in
this Guide because of their record of anti-labor violence. Their con-
tinued existence would be a serious obstacle in many parts of Japan
to the free organization of trade unions.
2. Collective Bargaining
a. As soon as democratically organized and governed unions
are formed, they should be permitted to bargain collectively with em-
ployers regarding terms of employment, subject to such policies on wages,
and hours as are established by Military Government authorities. (See
Civil Affairs Guides on Control of Wages and Hours in Japan and Working
Conditions in Japan other than Wages and Hours.)
b. In cases of serious conflict as to the jurisdiction of col-
lective bargaining agreements,Military Government should consider in-
valid any agreement where the trade union or other organization pur-
porting to represent the laborers is not deemed by MG to be their free-
ly chosen representative. In particular, Military Government should
watch for company unions, i.e., associations organized or dominated by
the employer, and labor gangs of unakilled laborers controlled by
labor bosses or oyakata.
0-4300 P35 bu

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
3. Strikes
a. Strikes in industries whose continued operation is es-
sential to military operations or military security or the objectives
or needs of 'ilitary Government should be prohibited.
b. Vilitary Government should permit strikes in non-
essential industries except where they interfere with the maintenance
of law and ordar or military security. "ilitary Government, however,
should adopt or authorize appropriate procedures, such as those listed
below, to adjust intustrial disputcs in non-essential industries in
order to prevent strikes and settle them promptly.
4. Adjustment of Industrial disputes
a. Direct Negotiation. It is expected that many labor
disputes can be settled by direct and voluntary negotiations be-
tween the worker or his representative and the employer.
b. Voluntary mediation, conciliation and arbitration. In
non-essential industries, the intervention of third parties as mediators,
conciliators and arbitrators in the settlement of disputes should take
place only at the request of both parties to the dispute. Compulsory
arbitration in non-essential industries would prohably involve Military
Government in enforcing a great many decisions in which it will have no
direct interest and for which extensive personnel would be required.
c. Compulsory Arbitration. In essential industries, labor
disputes may be mediated or conciliated by Japanese acceptable to both
sides. In case no settlement is arrived at, compulsory arbitration
by Military Government or by appointees of ilitary Government will pro-
bably be necessary. All decisions in essential industries should be
subject to review by Military Government.
d. Inadequacy of Existing Mechanisms. Pre-war mechanisms
and laws for the adjustment of industrial disputes will usually be found
to be non-existent, inadequate or biased against the trade unions.
i. The police have never been genuinely impartial, and
have concentrated on breaking or prohibiting strikes rather than set-
tling disputes to the satisfaction of all concerned. Unless a thorough
turnover in poli∞ personnel is effected, Military Government should re-
move all arbitration functions from the police.
ii. The Joint Maritime Board, which represented the ship-
owmers and the seamen's unions equally, has settled maritime disputes
in the past. However, it is expected that Japanese shipping will be
completely under direct military control, (See Civil Affairs Guide on
Japanese Merchant Marine and Coastwise Shipping) and that the functions
of the Joint Maritime Board will not be applicable. Evon if some shipping
0-4300 P36 bu

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
is permitted under private auspices, the defects of the Joint Maritime
Board will probably serve to make it useless in its pre-war form.
Those defects are that it represented shipowmers who might be suspect
to Military Government, that its labor representation was confined to
two unions -- the Seamen's Union and the Mercantile Marine Officers
Association -- both of which probably will no longer be in existence,
and that disproportionate representation was afforded Merchant
Marine Officers compared to seamen.
iii. The arbitration boards which have been provided
for by the Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926 were invoked only
four times from 1926 to 1940. The mechanisms provided appear to ta
equitable, however, and it may be useful for Military Government. to
permit the invocation of such boards by both parties to a dispute if they
so desire. However, the cor:lsory provisions for public utilities
and government enteiprises s ld be cancelled.
e.
Suggested methods. Several methods for relieving the load
of industrial disputes may be of use to Military Government. Among
them are:
i. The encouragement of regional or industry-wide col-
lective bargaining agreements between trade union federations and in-
dustry associations. Such broad agreements can prevent numerous indi-
vidual disputes and settlements, and might remove causes of friction by
eliminating minor inequalities in wages, hours, or conditions of labor
as between separate establishments. Such regional or industry-wide
agreements will prohably not be feasible in the early stages of occupa-
tion, but as individual local unions come to form federations, Military
Government should encourage broad agreements.
ii, The allowance of shop or work committees genuinely
composed of employee and employer representatives. Such committees,
if not including trade union representatives, may tend to compete with
free trade unions and may even tend to turn into company unions, but
until legitimate trade unions are organized they can be of particular
assistance in clearing up minor grievances within a factory. In dealing
with shop committees, Military Government should be careful not to en-
courage employer-dominated committees which might serve as obstacles
to free trade union organization. In all cases involving governmental
agencies, where a trade union has been established, it shall be considered
the gemuine representative of the laborers in preference to a shop com-
mittee in the same establishment.
iii. The establishment by Military Government of minimum
standards of hours and working conditions in selected industries. In
view of the probability of some degree of inflation, it is questionable
whether minimum wage standards would be of much use, but disputes over
particularly poor hours and working conditions may be avoided in certain
industries by setting of minimum standards. (For more extended dis-
cussion of this problem, see Civil Affairs Guides on Control of Wages
and Hours in Japan and Working Conditions other Than Wages and Hours in
Japan.)
0-4800 P87 

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
iv. The possible establishment by Military Government
of some administrative mechanism, staffed by Japanese responsible to
Military Government. Within the framework of Military Government re-
gulations, and subject to review by the Military Government labor section,
such administrative bodies might be expected to settle disputes arising
out of the interpretation of collective bargaining agreements and spheres
of union jurisdiction. However, no ruling of Military Government should
be subject to review by such administrative bodies.
5.
Administration
a. Elimination of undesirable Japanese official agencies
Certain Japanese government agencies have been set up
or have functioned for the purpose of obstructing free labor organiza-
tior. and repressing the expression of labor opinion. These agencies
should be abolishad. Among those recommended for abolition are:
i. The Special Higher Police, including the Peace
Preservation Section of the Police Bureau in the Home Iinistry, the Special
Higher Police Division of the Metropolitan Police Board, and the Special
Higher Police organizations in the prefectures. The Special Higher Police
for at least two decades has consisted of police officials and plain
clothes-men who have devoted their energies largely to the disruption
of trade union and other labor activities and to the suppression of
democratic, liberal and radical elements of all shades. While in the
'twenties and early 'thirties a few fascist extremists were arrested
by them, even such activity has been entirely absent in recent years.
The personnel of the Special Higher Police while highly trained in police
methods, is considered to be hopelessly reactionary and tied up with the
present militarist and fascist groups in control of the government of
Japan. From the Military Government point of view, the Special Higher
Police will be entirely untrustworthy. It is considered highly unlike-
ly that they could be utilized to ferret out fascists under Military
Government, and on the other hand the continued existence of this group
with or without police authority of any sort will constitute a constant
menace to the existence or growth of trade unions during the occupation
period. Any non-labor functions of the Special Higher Police, if
permitted to remain, should be transferred to some other police organiza-
ticn (For further discussion, see Civil Affairs Guide on Police and Public
Safety in Japan).
ii. The Thought Section of the Criminal Affairs Bureau
in the Ministry of Justice. This section has been engaged in prosecuting
thought offenses. With the abrogation of the Peace Preservation Law,
this section will have no legitimate function and should be abolished.
iii. The labor offices in the Munitions Ministry and
such labor control offices in the Ministry of Welfare established for
0-4300 P38 bu

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
wartime coercion of labor, except ror employment exchanges which
Military Government will want to operate on a voluntary basis (see
Civil Affairs Guide on Control of Labor Supply in Japan.)
iv. All special police offices in the national police,
the Metropolitan Police Board and the prefectural governments that have
been primarily engaged in the adjustment of labor disputes.
b. Elimination of Undesirable Personnel
In addition to the usual military security check to weed
out persons hostile to the United States and to Military Government, it
will be necessary for Military Government to declare ineligible for
employment in its labor agencies or as conciliators, mediators and arbi-
trators all those who have been directly connected in a responsible
capacity with the obstruction or repression of trade union organization
and activities.
Among others this includes:
i. All officials and former officials of "Sampo"
i.e., the Industrial Patriotic Societies and the prefectural, regional and
national federations thereof, of the labor sections of the Imperial
Rule Assistance Association, of the Harmonization Society, of the
"patriotic" societies, of the fascist labor unions, and of the Japan and
Osaka Industrial Clubs.
ii. All merbers and former members of the police, in-
cluding the gendarmerie, except that members of the Factory Section
of the Peace Preservation Police might be used solely for factory in-
spection.
c. Labor Section in Military Government
As a part of the civil administration, it will probably
be desirable to establish within Military Government a labor section
which should be trained and competent to administer Military Government's
policy with regard to trade unions, collective bargaining and other mat-
ters connected with labor-capital relations. Among its functions
would be:
1. The screening of Japanese personnel in all labor
agencies of filitary Government to eliminate undesirable personnel.
ii. The selection of arbitrators in cases where com-
pulsory arbitration is ordered, particularly in disputes in industries
where continued operation is deemed essential to military operations and
security.
iii. Review of collective bargaining agreements, ar
bitration decisions and rulings of subordinate official agencies dealing
with labor, in order to ensure that they are in conformity with Military
Government policies.
0-4300 P39 nobu

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
APPENDIX A - RUSTER OF PRINCIPAI LABOR UNIONS BEFORE THE CHINA WAR (1936)
Date of
Number of
No. of
Political
Labor Union
Urganization
Urganizational
Members
Chief Officials
Affiliarion
Note
Units
I. Nippai Roio Kumiai Kaigi
1932
IC organizations
259,673
Pres. Latsuoka, Komakichi
Shakai Taishuto
Japanese Trade únion Cxgress
6 district councils
res. Yonekubo, Litsuaki
(social lasses rarty
Sec. Gen. Kamijo, Aiichi
A.
Zen Nippon Rodo Sodomei
1912
13 federations
85,308
res. katsuoka,Komakichi
n
in
11
Amalgamation
All-Japan General Federa-
10ó unions
of Nippon
tion of Labor
Rodo Sodamei
and Zenkoku
Rodo Kumiai
Donei
B.
Nippon Kaiin Kumiai
1921
1h branch offices
106,837
Horinouchi, Nagahisa
n
Both unions
Japan Seamen's Union
Yonekubo, Mitsuaki
11
under influ-
ance of the
C.
Kaiin Kyokai
Ship Omers
Mercantile Marine Officers
1896
9 branch offices
13,553
Koizumi, Hidekichi
n
Association
36
Association
D. Nippon Kowan Jugynin Kumiai
1928
12 locals
15,485
Okasaki, Ken
11
n
Japan Harbor Employees' Union
E.
Nippon Seitetsu Jugyoin Kumiai
1933
38 locals
12,500
Hamabashi, Bunsaku
n
Japan Steel Morkers Union
F.
Kangyo Rodo Sodomei
General Federation of Govern- 1924
7 unions
10,590
Nishiura, Uldichi
ment employees
Nippon Rodo Soremmei
Federation of Japanese Labor
1930
21 unions
6,300
Yagi, Nobuichi
H.
Nippon Seito Rodo Kumiai Domei
1931
15 unions
3,500
Ito, Eijiro
Shakaii Taishuto
Federation of Japanese Ceramic
Labor Unions

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
APPRNDIX A - (Cont'd)
Number of
Labor Union
Date of
Urganisational
No. of
Political
Urganization
Units
Members
Chief Officials
Affiliation
Noto
I. Tokyo Gasuko Kumiai
1936
23 locals
3,350
Hirano, Yasukura
Shakai Taishuto
Tokyo Gas Workers' Union
J.
Toden Jugyoin Kumlai
1927
18 looals
2,450
Iwanaga, Eiichi
Tokyo E ectric Company
Workers' Union
II. Nippon Rodo Kumiai Zenkoku Hyogilai
1934
5 distriot
12,053
Kato, Kanju
Nippon Musanto,
This was known
National Council of Japanese Labor
councils;
Japanese Prole-
as legal left
Unions
40 unions
tarian Party
union. It was
dissolved in
Dec. 1937.
III. Nippon Kotsu Rodo Soremmei
1926
7 unions
21,225
Ukamoto, Ushitaro
Nippon Minshuto
General Federation of Japanese
(Japan Democratio
Transport Workers
Party.) and
Shakai Taishuto
IV.
Tokyo-shi Jugyoin Kumiai
1924
21 locals
1,470
Iwanaga, (ichi (1938)
Shakai Taishuto
Tokyo City Employees' Union
∇.
Aikoku Rodo Kumiai Zenkoku Konwa-kai
1936
11 organizations 80,278
Takayma, Kuzo
This organiza-
National Convention of Patriotic
tion united
Labor Unions
all fascist
labor groups
A. Nippon Rodo Kumiai Sorengo
1926
5 federations
25,102
Takayama, Kuzo
Nippon Kairushinto
General Federation of Japanese
Japan Reformation
Labor Unions
rarty)

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
ADDRNITX A - (Cont'd)
Date of
Number of
Number of
Political
Labor Union
urganization
Urganizational
Members
Chief officials
Affiliation
Note
Units
B. Dai Nippon Rodo Kumiai
1934
9 unions
2,200
Chashi, Chifusa
Dai Nippon Kokka Shakai-to
Kyoghai, Great Japan
(Great Japan National
Labor Union
Socialist Party)
C. Nippon Sangyo Rodo Kurabu
1933
23 unions
25,717
Ishii, Yozo
Sanro Seiji Kank-yu-kai,
Many unions
Japan Industrial Labor Club
Industry and Labor Poli-
are company
tical Research Society
unions
D.
Aikoku Rodo Nomin Doshi-kai
1933
7 branches
2,600
Matsudaira, Yuhei
Patriotic Labor and Farmers
Comrades Society
E.
Nippon Rodo Domei
1932
5 unions
3,600
Kando, Eizo
United with
Japan Workers League
Aikoku Rodo
Noadn Dos-
kai in 1936
38
F. Nippon Sangyo-gun
1934
29 unions
Imamura, Hitoshi
Joined
Japan Industrial Army
Alkoku Rodo
Nemin Doshi-
.0.
Aikoku Jugyoin Kumiai Rammei
1936
24 unions
4,048
Yamasakd, Tsunekichi
Nippon Kakushinto
Company
Federation of Tatriotic En-
unions
ployees Unions
H. Shin Nipron Kaiin Kumiai
1935
9 branches
10,000
Koji, Sotaro
Rejoined
New Japan Seamen's Union
the Nippon
Kaiin kumdai
in 1937
VI. Kaigun Kangyo Rodo Kumiai Remmei
1924
7 unions
51,900
Hayashi, Sukeichi
Federation of Naval forkers Unions
0-4300

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
0r4300 P44 bu
PPENDIX A - (Cont'd)
Date of
Number of
No. of
Folitical
Laber Union
Urganization
organizational
!embers
Chief Officials
Affiliation
Note
Units
VII. 39 Independent unions
43,969
SUURCE:
Adopted fram Rodo Nenkan, 1937, pp. 251 - 275.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
APPENDIX B
STATISTICS OF TRADE UNION MELBERSHIP
I. TRLDE UNION MEMBERSHIP, 1926 - 1939
Year
Number of
Number of
Total Number of
Percent of
(December)
Unions
Union Members
Workers Non- Agri-
Workers
cultural
Organized
1926
488
284.739
4.641.681
6.1
1927
505
309.493
4.703.757
6.5
1928
501
308,900
4.824.780
6.3
1929
630
330.985
4.873.081
6.8
1930
712
354.312
4.713.002
7.5
1931
818
368.975
4.670,275
7.9
1932
932
377,625
4,860,276
7.8
1933
942
384.613
5.126.719
7.5
1934
965
387,964
5.764,277
6.7
1935
993
408.662
5.906.589
6.9
1936
973
420.589
6,090,116
6.9
1937
837
395.290
6.422.333
6.2
1938
731
375.191
6.765.399
5.5
1939 (June)
659
314.737
8.136.370
3.9
Source:
Nakagawa, Konichi, Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal)
March, 1940, pp. 262-277
G-4300 P45 bu

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
Q-4300 P46 bu
APPENDIX B (cont'd)
2. TRADE UNION MEIBERSHIP BY INDUSTRY
(1929,1936, 1939)
Percent of
Industry
1929 (December)
1936 (December)
1939 (June)
Total Workers
Organized 1929
Male
Female
Total
Lale
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
M.
T.
Machine & Tools
99.757
1,719
101.476
93.991
1,948
95.939
105.222
2,581
107.803 27.95
3.59
26,54
Chemical
10.222
1,825
12,047
23.140
3,206
26.346
13,336
3.327
16.663 13.48
0.75
9.19
Textile
11.991
4.855
16,846
9.226
9.095
18.321
4.951
3.636
8.587 9.32
0.75
2.01
Food & Drink
3.003
215
3,218
4.623
639
5.262
2,989
405
3.394 24.85
0.44
2.03
Lining
6.132
2
6,134
5.920
28
5.948
4,509
7
4.516
2.46
0.3
2.05
Gas & Electricity
9.651
158
9.809
9.636
57
9,693
2.610
28
2.638
59.87
8.7
49.87
Transportation
131,723
1,178
132,901
174.976
4.268
179,244
100,347
6.890
107,237
42.0
2.4
37,19
Communication
1,968
1,968
7,400
86
7,486
7,896
60
7,956
1.89
Civil Engineer-
ing (Building
and Construction) 2.479
2.479
6.632
108
6,740
4.221
55
4,276
Miscellaneous 1
13.345
1.342
14.687
17,019
2.231
19.250
18.371
2.774
21.145
Day Workers and
Others
28.798
622
29.420
43,340
3.020
46.360
28.058
2.464 30.522 3.1
0.46
2.34
TOTAL
319,069 11,916
330,985
395,903
24,686 420,589
292,510
22,227 314,737 9.57 0.72
6.73
Source:
Figures for l929 from International Labor Office, Industrial and Labor Information, Vol. XxxIv,
June 30, 1930, p.291
Figures for 1936 from Japan-Manchoukuo Year Book, 1940, p. 327
Figures for 1939 from Nakagawa, Kenichi, Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal) March, 1940,
pp. 262-277
Percentages for 1929 from Allen Sayler, "Trade Union Development," Labor's News, October 31, 1931
1
Miscellaneous industries caaprise: knitted goods, hats, lacquerware, leather and hides, bamboo
manufactures, brushes, straw braids, electric bulbs, pyrethrums, toys, buttons, matches.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
APPENDIX B (Cont'd)
3. CHIEF AREAS OF TRAIE UNION AND "LABOR FRONT" MEZIBERSHIP
(JUNE 1939)
Prefecture
Trade Union
Industrial Patriotic
Membership
SocietyWembership
Tokyo
67,323
536,994
Kanagawa
26,649
112,227
Kyoto
8,866
76,538
Osaka
38,627
263,576
Hyogo
61,685
158,423
Hiroshima
35,399
28,090
Nagasaki
17,240
59,990
Aichi
5,857
171,622
Fukucka
2,573
278,475
Total of 9 Prefectures
264,219
1,685,935
Total for all Japan
314,737
2,705,203
1
Sangyo Hokoku-Kai
Source:
Nakagawa, Kenichi, Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal) March,
1940, pp. 262-77
0-4300 P47 bu

=== Page 104 === (confidence 1.00)
-43-
APPENDIX C
STATISTICS ON LABOR DISPUTES IN JAPAN
I. LABOR DISPUTES IN JAPAN, 1931-1940
No. of
No. of
No. per
No. of Disputes
Union
Disputes
Persons
Dispute
Ending in Strikes
Participation
Year
Involved
Sabotage and
in Strikes
Lockouts
(in percent)
1931
2,456
154,528
63
998
71
1932
2,217
123,313
56
893
63
1933
1,897
116,733
62
610
50
1934
1,915
120,307
63
626
39
1935
1,872
103,962
56
590
43
1936
1,975
92,552
47
547
44
1937
2,126
213,622
100
628
38
1938
1,050
55,565
70
262
13
1939
1,120
72,835
203
1940
701
31,476
123
Sources:
Figures through 1939 from Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal)
March, 1940, pp. 206-282.
Figures for 1940 from Shakai Seisaku Jiho, March 194l, p. 335
Note: Bigures from Toyo Keisai Chosa Geppo (Oriental Economist Monthly Survey)
Oct. 1943 indicate 330 disputes with 14874 participants £nr year ending
June, 1941 and 259 disputes with 13,752 participants for year ending June,
1942. These figures, however, may not be comparable to those in the Table.
0.4300 P48 bu

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX C (Cont'd)
2.
NUMBER OF DISPUTES BY CAUSES
For
Against
Against
Payment
Protest
Union
Welfare
Protest
Payment
Rejection
Others
Year
Wage In-
Wage De
Nethods
of Wages
Against
Reccg-
Estab-
Against
of Dis-
of Super
creases
creases
of Hage
Due
Assign-
nition
lishment
Discharge
charge
visor
Payment
ment
Allow-
ances
1931
290
419
103
281
22
18
9
540
377
40
357
1932
397
289
98
286
17
7
11
488
227
26
271
1933
596
110
103
200
32
7
14
319
255
45
236
1934
622
78
113
184
34
9
15
309
288
45
118
2935
481
142
115
165
29
11
13
272
357
47
245
1936
561
131
70
102
27
1.5
9
309
397
44
254
1937
1,002
73
56
108
23
11
9
237
304
51
257
1938
440
31
29
97
7
14
82
215
25
100
1939
528
21
10
51
17
2
13
51
90
43
198
1940
8
8
G -4300
Source:
Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Sxial Policy Journal) March, 1940, pp. 288-9.
P49
bu

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
APPENDIX C
(cant'a)
3. ADJUSTLENT OF DISPUTES
Firet
No. of Ceses
Six
Arbitrated
BY WHOA ADJUSTED
Mos. of
in % of
Arbitration/Arbitration2/Police
Mayors &
Gov.
Others
Total
Year
Total
Boards
Officials
Governos
officials
1931
32.6
1
120
96
21
2
112
352
1932
30.4
89
95
9
2
92
287
1933
28.2
1
63
81
24
4
75
238
1934
34.8
0
83
117
10
3
73
286
1935
38.8
73
175
5
5
69
327
1936
45.3
89
245
1
3
59
397
1937
35.1
1
95
299
30
12
75
511
1938
47.2
40
198
9
4
28
279
1939
52.7
5
275
7
2
19
308
1940 (Sept.) -
352
2
1
13
368
y
Pursuant to Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1926
2
In the Social Welfare Bureau of Home Department, and in the Welfare Department.
Sources:
Figures through 1939 from Shakai Seisaku Jiho, (Social Policy Journal)
March, 1940, p. 304.
Figures for 1940 from
1bid, March 1941, p 348.
6-40n Pñn Du

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-46-
APPENDIX D
Selected Laws Obstructing or Repressing Trade Union
Organization and Activity Which Should be Abrogated or Amended
by Military Government
1. Peace Preservetion Law (Jian Iji-ho) Law (Horitsu) No. 54, March 10,
1941
Chapter I. Crimes
"Article 1. A person who has organized an association with the
object of changing the national policy or a person who has performed the
work of an officer or other leader of such an association shall be con-
demned to death or punished with penal servitude for life or not less
than seven years; and a person who knowingly has joined such an associa-
tion or a person who has camitted en act contributing to the acramplish-
ment of ts object shall be punished with penal servitude for a fixed term
of not less than seven years.
"Article 2. A person who has organized an association with the
object of aiding an associetion specified in the preceding Article or a
person who has performed work of an officer or other leader of such an
association shall be condemned to death or punished with penal servitude
for life or not less than five years, and a person who knowingly has joined
such an association or a person who has committed an act contributing to
the accomplishment of its object shall be punished with penal servitude
for a fixed term of not less than two years.
"Article 3. A person who has organized en association with the
object of preparing for the orgenization of an association specified in
Article 1 or a person who has performed the work of an officer or other
leader of such an asscciation shall be condemned to death or punished with
penal servitude for life or not less than five years, and a person who
knowingly has joined such an association or who has cammitted en act con-
tributing to the accomplishment of its object shall be punished with
penal servitude for a fixed term of not less than two years.
"Article 4. A person who has convoked a mee ting with the objocts
stipulated in the preceding three Articles or a person who has directed
such a meeting shall be punished with penal servitude for life or not
less than three years, and a peraon who has participated in such a meeting
with the objects stipulated in the foregoing three Articles or a person
who has cammitted an act contributing to the realization of the objects
stipulated in the foregoing three Articles in connection with said meeting
shalt be purnished with penal servitude for a fixed term of not less than
one year.
"Article 5. A person who has conferred with another person or in-
stigated others to attain the objectives mentioned in Articles 1 to 3 or
0-4300 P51 bu

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
- 47 -
who has committed overt acts to attain such objectives or propagated such
objectives matters or committed other acts contributing to the accomplish-
ment of the objectives, shall be punished with penal servitude or not less
than one year and not exceeding ten years.
"Article 6. A person who has created confusion, acted in a dis-
orderly way, or incited to crime injurious to life, person and property for
the objects stipulated in Articles 1 to 3, shall be punished with penal
servitude for a fixed term of not less than two years.
"Article 7. A person who has orgenized an association with the
object of circulating matters disavowing the national polity or imparing
the sanctity and dignity of the shrines and the Imperial Household or a person
who has performed the work of an officer or other leeder of such an asso-
ciation shall be punished with penal servitude for a fixed term of not less
than four years, and a person who has comitted an act contributing to the
accomplishment of its objectives shall be punished with penal servitude for
a fixed term of not less than one year.
"Article 8. A person who has convoked a meeting with the objects
stipulated in the foregoing Article or a person who has directed suah a
meeting shall be punished with penal servitude for life or not less than
three, years, and a person who, with the objects stipulated in the foregoing
Article, has participated in said meeting, or a person who has committed an
act contributing to the accomplishment of the objectives stipulat d in the
foregoing Article in relation to seid meeting, shall be punished with penal
servitude for a fixed term of not less than one year.
"Article 9. A person who has given or offered or promised to give
money or other articles or the procoeds of property to another person with
the object of furthering the commission of one of the crimes stipulated in
the preceding eight Articles, shall be punished with penal servitude not
exceeding 10 years. This provision shall also apply to a person who know-
ingly has accepted or demanded or promised to accept said offering.
"Article 10. A person who has organized an association with the
object of disavowing the private property system or a person who knowingly
has joined such an association or a person who has committed an act can-
tributing to the accomplishment of the objects of said association, shall
be punished with penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
"Article ll. A person who has conferred with othe persons re-
garding the carrying out of actions with the objects stipulated in the pre-
ceeding Articles or a person who has instigated the carrying out of such
an action shall be punished with penal servitude or imprisonment not ex-
ceeding seven years.
0-4900 P52 bu

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-48-
"Article 12. A person who, with the objects stipulated in Article
10, has created confusion, ac'ed in a disorderly way or otherwise incited
to crimes injurious to life, person, or property, shall be punished with
penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
Article 13. A person who has given or offered or promised to give
money or other articles or the proceeds of property to another person with
the object of furthering the commission of crimes stipulated in the pre-
ceeding three Articles, shall be punished with penal servitude or imprison-
ment not exceeding five years. This provision shall apply also to a person
who kmowingly has accepted or demanded or promised to accept said offering.
"Article 14. Attempts to commit the crimes stipulated in Articles
1 to 4, Article 7, Article 8 and Article 10 of the present law shall be
punished (in the same way as if actually committed).
"Article 15. When a person who has committed any of the crimes
stipulated in this Chapter has surrendered himself his punishment shall be
mitigated or remitted.
"Article 16. Provisions of this Cnapter shall also be applied to
any person, without exception, who has committed any of the crimes stipulated in
this law outside the territories where this hw is in force."
(Chapter II and III on Criminal Procedure and Preventive Detention, respee-
tively and including Articles 17 - 65 refer to procedure applied to cases of
crimes stipulated in Chapter I.)
2. Protective Suryeillance for Thought Offenses Law (Shiso-han Hogo Kan-
gateuho), Law (Hor1 tsu) No. 29, May 29, 1936.
"Article l. A person nay be submitted to Protective Surveillance on
decision of the Protective Surveillance Commission if there is a judgment of
suspended sentence against said person for violating the Peace Preservation
Law or when prosecution is not lodged because suit has already been filed.
The same may occur when the sentence has been completed or release on parole
is granted.
"Article 2. Protective Surveillance protects the person and observes
his 'thought" and 'conduct' in order to prevent repetitton of the crime.
"Article 3. Protective Surveillance places the person under surveil-
lance of a probation officer or Protective Surveillance Station, turns him
over to a guardian, or entrusts him to a protective body, temple, church,
hospital, or other proper person.
"Article 4. Restriction may be put on the abode, friends or communi-
cations of persons submitted to Protective Surveillance; other proper stipu-
lations for surveillance may be issued.
0-4800 P63 u

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
- 49 -
"Article 5. Protective Surveillance period is two years; when
there is special need for prolonging the period, it may be renewed on
decision of Protective Surveillance Commission."
Articles 6 - 13 provide procedural details.)
3. Regulationa Relative to Application of Protective Surveillance Law
for Thought Offense (Shiso-han Hcgo Kansuru Kisoku),
Articles 1 - 2 state general ruias and purpose of Crdinance.
Articles 3 - 16 designate prccedure for the investigation of person
whom it is deemed necessary to submit to Protective Surveillance. Investi-
gation is made by Protective Surveillance Station or probation officer.
Articles 17 - 26 state that the person in question is to be submitted
to Protective Surveillance and probation officer or guardian to whom person
is entrusted must be instructed in meaning of La. Probation officer or
guardian must be acquainted with measures to carry out Prctective Surveillance.
Probation officer must report to Protective Surve llance Station on certain
matters concerning the pr gress of person under protective Surveillance.
4. National Mobilization Law (Kokka Sodoin-hc). Law (Horitsu) No. 55,
April 1, 1938; Revised by Law No. 68, April 1939 and Law No. 19.
March 1941.
"Article 4. In time of war the Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may enlist subjects of the Empire and place them in
general mobilization businesses in accordance vith provisions of Imperial
Ordinances. This provision does ot prevent the application of the Con-
scription Law, however,
"Article 6. The Goverrment if necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war may issue crders hich are necessary regarding the
use, employment or discharge or a sumotion of offices or assumption of ser
vices or retirement of employees or wages, salaries and other working condi-
tions, in accordance with prov sions of Imperial Ordinances.
"Article 7. The Gorernnent if necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war may issue necessery orders regarding the prevention
or settlement of labor disputes or the closing of plarts, suspension of
operations, or restriction or prch  tion of acts relating to labor dis-
putes, according to provisions of Imperial Ordinances."
0-4300 P64 bu

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
- 50 -
5. Public Peace Police Law (Jian Keisatsu-ho), Law (Horitsu) No. 36, March
10, 1900. Revised by Law No. 59, April 1922, and Law No. 58, April 1926.
"Article l. The officers of associations connected with political
matters (if in branches, the branch officers) shall report, within three days
after the date of organization of the association, to the police station
the name of the association, its by-laws, its headquarters, and the mames of
its officers. In case of a change in any of the above data, the same pro-
cedure (in filing a new report)shall be followed.
"Article 2. Those who open mass meetings connected with politics
shall be designated sponsors.
The sponsors shall.... at least three hours before the opening of
such a meeting notify the police station having jurisdiction of the place the
date and time of the meeting.
If the meeting is convoked more than three hours after the stipu-
lated time or is interrupted after more than three hours, the notification
shall lose its validity.
"Article 3. In the case of associations or meetings related to
public affairs, even though they are not concerned with political matters,
when it is deemed necessary to maintain peace and order, the provisions of
Articles 1 and 2 may be applicable by law.
"Article 8. In cases where it is deemed necessary to the maintanance
of public peace, the police may restrict, prohibit or disperse putdoor meet-
ings and processions, and may disperse indoor meetings.
In cases where conditions of the preckding provision (if necessary
to maintain public peace) applies, the Minister of Home Affairs has the
authority to ban associations.
Revision of the Public Peace Police Law in 1941 and after:
Law No. 97, December 21, 1941 revised certain provisions of the
Public Peace Police Law. Article 1 is revised to require the sanction of the
Minister of Home Affairs when organising a political association. Article 8
is revised to give the police the power to cancel meetings and ban assooia-
tions before the meetings take place or the associations are organised.
Legislation passed after 194l requires that in the case of meetings
of more than three persons concerned with political or, where the maintenance
of peace and order is involved, with any public affairs, permission must be
obtained in advance from the police. New assciations are required to obtain
permission from the Minister of Home Affairs at least thirty days prior to
their establishment.
0-6200 P55 Du

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
- 51 -
6. Police Crimes Punishment Law. (Keisatsu-han Shobatsu-rei), Ordinance
of Home Department, No. 16, Sept. 29, 1908. Revised by Home Depart-
ment Ordinance No. 17, Sept. 1919.
"Article l. Persons who fall into one of the following categories
shall be imprisoned for not more than thirty days:
3. Those who walk back and forth in places where they
do not reside and where they do not hate business.
4. Those who, without due reason, forcibly request an
interview or follow others threateningly or forcibly converse with others.
"Article 2. Persons who fall into the following categories shall
be imprisoned for not more than thirty days or fined not more than twenty
yen:
5. Those who obstruct of commit mischief with regard
to another person's business.
31. Those who forcibly stand beside and block another
person and those who forcibly follow another.
0-4800 Pse bu-final

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 29, 1945
file
No. 146
in
rim
Subject:
Transmitting Copy of Trade Union Law.
1JA
LEEIR
1041
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
IFEC
transmit copies of a Trade Union Law passed by the recent
89th Imperial Diet and promulgated on December 21, 1945.
894.5043/12-2945
Enclosure:
P.B.S.
Copy of Trade Union
Law No. XVI.
Original and hectograph to Department.
850.4
JSService: jwb
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 3 11946
001
894.5043
LOH
FEB151946
FILD
12.2945

=== Page 114 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to despatch no. 146 dated December 29, 1945, from
the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the
subject "Transmitting Copy of Trade Union Law".
TRADE UNION LAW
No. XVI.
We hereby give our sanction to the Trade Union Law approved
by the Imperial Diet and cause the same to be promulgated.
This twenty-first day of the twelfth month of twentieth year
of Showa.
Signed:
Hirohito
Seal of the Emperor Countersigned:
Baron Kijuro Shidehara
Prime Minister
Chuzo Iwata
Minister of Justice
Hitoshi Ashida
Minister of Welfare
Viscount Keizo Shibusawa
Minister of Finance
Takeo Tanaka
Minister of Transporta
tion

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Law No. 51
TRADE UNION LAW
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Article l. The aim of the present Act shall be to raise the
status of workers end thereby contribute to economic develop-
ment through the guarantee of the right of organization and the
encouragement of collective bargaining.
The provisions of Article 35 of the Criminal Code shall
apply to collective bargaining and other a cts of the trade unions
which are eppropriate, being performed for the attainment of the
objects of the preceding paragreph.
Article 2. Trade Unions under the present Act shall be those
organizations, or federations thereof, formed autonomously by
the workers, with the workers as the main constituents, for the
main purpose of maintaining or improving the conditions of work
and for raising the economic status of the workers, provided that
this rule shall not apply to those:
1. Which admit to membership the employer or
persons who may be considered to represent the interest
of the employer.
2. Which depend on the emploer's aid for the
major exoenses of the organization.
3. Those objects are confined to mutuel aid
work or other welfere work among the members.
4. Which principelly aim at carrying on
political or social movements.
Article 3. Workers under the present Act shall include those
who live by wages, salaries or other remuneration assimilable
thereto regardless of the kind of occupation.
Article 4. Police, firemen and employees of penal institutions
shall be denied the right to organize or to join trade unions.
As regards other government officials, subordinate officials
assimilated to government fficials and municipal officials, and
those employed by the s tate or public bodies, separate regulations
may be made by ordinance for the application of the present Act,
provided that this rule shall not apply to the prohibition of
their organizing a trade union or of their joining such as members.
CHAPTER

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
CHAPTER II - TRADE UNIONS
Article 5. Representatives of trade unions shall submit to
the edministrative authorities within the week after formation
of the trade union, its statute and the list of names and
addresses of its officers.
Then changes occur in the particulars as laid down in pre-
ceding paragraph, a renort thereon shall be submitted to the
administrative authorities within a week thereafter.
Article 6 When a report has been submitted in accordance with
paragraph one of the preceding article and the union concerned
is not in conformity with Article 2, the administrative
authorities shall take action in accordance with the stipulations
of ordinance following the resolution of the Labor Relations
Committee.
The provisions of the preceding paragreph shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the case of an orgenization set up as a trade union
which has ceased to conform to Article 2.
Article 7. The statute of the trade union shall contain at least
the following perticulars:
1. Name of the union.
2. Address of the main office.
3. If the union is a legal person, statement to
that effect.
4. Objects and business of the union.
5. Rules relating to membership or to affiliated
unions.
6. Rules releting to meetings.
7. Rules relating to the representatives of the
union and other officers.
8. Rules relating to expenditure and accounts of
the union.
9. Rules relating to revision of the statute of the
union.
Article 8. Then the statute of a union contravenes laws or
regulations, the administrative authorities may order its
alteration following the resolution of the Labor Relations
Committee.
Article

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Article 9. The trade union shall keep a membership list or
a list of affiliated unions.
Article 10. Representatives of a trade union or those to whom
the powers therefor are delegated by the union shall have the
power to negotiate with the employer on behelf of the members
of the union for conclusion of a trade agreement or on other
matters.
Article ll. No employer shall discharge a worker or inflict
disedventages on him on account of his membership in a trade
union.
No employer shall meke it a condition of employment thet
the worker must not join or must withdraw from a trade union.
Article l2. No employer shall claim indemnity from a trade
union or members or officers of the seme for damages received
through a strike or other acts of dispute which are proper acts.
Article 13. When a trade union intends to use for other purposes
the funds specially set up for mutual aid and other welfere work,
it shall obtain the resolution of the General Meeting of the
union.
Article 14. The trade union shall be dissolved in the following
cases:
1. Occurrence of the circumstances requiring
the dissolution as provided in the statute of the
union.
2. Bankruptcy of the union.
Z. Resolution for the dissolution adopted by the
General Meeting of the union with at least three-
fourths majority of the total memberehip or of the
affiliated unions.
4. The decision taken under the provisions of
Article 6.
5. Court action of dissolution order issued in
accordence with the provisions of Article 15.
Article 15. When a t rade union frequently violates laws and
ordinances and disturbs peace and order, the Court may order
dissolution of the union at the request of the Labor Relations
Committee.
Necessary matters relating to procedure under the preceding
peregraph shall be fixed by ordinance.
Article

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
一5
Article 16. A trade union shall acquire the st tus of legal
person by registering at the place where its main office is
located.
The matters necessery for registration other than were
provided in this Act shall be fixed by ordinance.
As regards the matters which require registration for a
trade union, they shall have no effect ageinst eny third person
unless a registration has been effected.
Article 17. The provisions of Article 43, 44, 50, 52-55, 57
and 72-83 of the Civil Code and of Articles 35, 36, 37 clause
2, 126 Paragreph 1,137 and 138 of the Law on Procedure of
Non-contentious Cases shall apply mutatis mutandis to trade
unions which ere legal persons.
Article 18. Trade unions which are legal persons shall be
exempted from income tax end taxes cherged on legal persons in
accordance with the provisions of an Ordinance.
CHAPTER III - TRADE AGREEMENTS
Article 19. The agreement between a trade union and the employer
or organization of the latter concerning conditions of work will
take effect when the agreement is signed by the parties concerned.
Perties concerned the trade agreement shall submit to the
administrative authorities within the week after signing of the
trade agreement.
Article 20. No trade agreement shall fix a term exceeding three
yeers.
Article 21. When a trade agreement is signed, the parties
concerned shall mutually assume the obligetion to coorerate in
nll sincerity for giving effects to the agreement for the
enhencement of efficiency and maintenance of industrial peace.
Article 22. When a standard is fixed by a trade agreement con-
cerning conditions of labor and treetment of workers (when a
special organ exiets for fixing such standards in accordance
with a t rade agreemen', the standards fixed by that organ shall
come und-r this provision and this rule shall apply to all the
cases where the same terms occur hereafter) any provision of a
labor contract contravening the standard mentioned shell be oid
end the invalidated part of the labor contract shall be replaced
by the provisions of the above mentioned standard. The same rule
shall apply to the part which is not leid down in the labor contract.
Article 23. When three-fourths or more of the workers normally
employed in a fectory, mine or other places of employment come
under epnlication of a trade agreement, the remaining workers
shall ipso facto be bound by the same agreement.
Article 24. When a major pert of the workers of siniler kind in
a

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
a given locality come under application of e certain trade
agreement, the administrative authority may at the request
of either one or two of the contracting parties take the
decision to extend the compulsory application of the contract
(including the part revised under provisions of the second
paragreph) to all the remaining workers of the same kind in
the same locality end to the employer.
In cese the Labor Relations Committee deems, in making the
resolution of the pre ceding paragraph that the trade agreement
in question contains inappropriate provisions, the Committee
may amend those provisions.
The decision shall become effective by public notification.
Article 25. Then there is a provision in the trade agreement
to the effect that disputes concerning matters in the same
agreement be put to conciliation or arbitretion, it shall be
disallowed to engege in strike, lockout or perform ects of
dispute except in case of failure of either conciliation or
arbitration.
CHAPTER IV - LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE
Article 26. Labor Relations Committees shall be set up con-
sisting of equel numbers or representatives of employers and
workers and of central members.
The administrative authorities shall appoint the representa-
tives of the employers in accordance with the recommendations of
the employers organizations, those of workers with the recommenda-
tions of the workers trade unions end the central members with
the agreement of the representotives of employers and of workers.
The Labor Relations Committee shall consist of National
Labor Relations Committee and Prefectural Lahor Relations Committees
and in case of a special need, special Labor Relations Committees
may be set up for a given locality or to deal with special matters.
The members of a Labor Relations Committee and the steff
atteched thereto as provided by ordinance shall be regarded as
staff members engaged in official business under laws end ordinances.
Matters relating to Labor Relations Committees other than
these laid down in the present Act shall be fixed by Imperial
Ordinance.
Article 27. In addition to the provisions under Articles 6, 8,
15, 24 and 33 the Labor Relations Committees shall have authority
to perform the following functions:
1. Compilation

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7一
1. Compilation of statistics on labor disputes
and investigetion of conditions of labor.
2. Mediation in collective bargaining and pre-
vention of labor disputes.
3. Arbitration and concilistion in disputes.
The Labor Relations Committee may submit to the competent
administrative authorities for improving conditions of labor.
Article 28. When the Labor Relations Committee deems it
necessary for public welfare or when the parties concerned re
quest it, the proceedings of a Labor Reletions Committee may be
made puolic.
Article 29. When it is necessary for carrying out its work the
Labor Relations Committee may require the a ttendance or presenta-
tion of reports of the emplover or of his orgenization and the
worker of others concerned or it may require the presentetion of
books end documents necessary for investigating conditions of
labor or it may elso have its members of staff of the committee
(hereafter called simply staff) as provided by order under
Article 26 clause 4 inspect factories, mines and other places of
employment involved or inspect the conditions of business, books
and papers and other objects.
Article 30. The members end those who were members as well as
the staff or those who were cr the staff of a Labor Relations
Committee shall be disallowed to disclose any secret information
obtained in performing their functions.
Article 3l. The provisions of Chapter III shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the agreements handled by the Labor Relations Committee
but to which a trade union is not a party concerning the standard
of conditions of work and other terms relating to the treatment
of workers.
Article 32. When the conditions of lahor or of treatment of
workers are especially inappropriate, the Labor Relations Committee
may, after investigetion of actual conditions, formulate concrete
proposals and submit a representation to the administrative
authorities.
Then the representation of the foregoing paragreph is received
and the administrative authorities deem it necessary, they may
issue the direction for a fixed standard of working conditions or
of treatment of workers to the employer.
Then the employer receives the direction of the foregoing
paragraph, he must teke necessary measures to let all the workers
know of the direction without delay.
The

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
4
8-
The standard as directed in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph two above shall have the same effects as the trade
agreement on the employer and workers concerned.
CHAPTER V - PENALTIES
Article 33. In case of violation of the provisions of Article II,
the person who committed the act shall be liable to imprisonment
not exceeding six (6) months or to a fine not exceeding Five Hundred
Yen(500.00 Yen).
The offense of the foregoing paragraph shall be acted upon
at the request of the Labor Relati ons Committee.
Article 34. Those who contravene the provisions of Article 30
shall be lia le to fine not exceeding One Thousand Yen (1,000.00
Yen).
Article 35. Those who contrevene the provisions of Article 29
and fail to present reports or make false reports or fail to
submit the books and papers or contravene the provisions of the
same Article and fail to present themselves or refuse, obstruct
or evade the inspection under the provisions of the same
Article shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Five Hundred Yen
(500.00 Yen).
Article 36. When a legal person or the deputy of a person, the
head of a femily, members of a family, a co-habitant of a femily.
employees of others engaged for work contravened the provisions
of the first portion of the preceding Article, in connection
with the busiress of a legal person or of a person, the said legal
person or persons shall not be immune from penelty on the ground
of not having given order for such contravention.
The provisions of the first portion of the preceding Article
shall apply to the directors, managers or other officers who
execute the business of the legal person in case the employer is
a legal person and to the legally fixed deputy in case the employee
is a minor cr a person adjudged incompetent provided that this
rule shall not apply to a minor who has the same capacity as an
adult in the performance of business.
Article 37. The representative or liquidator shall be liable to
fine not exceeding Five Hundred Yen (500.00 Yen) in eny of the
following cases8
1. When he fails to submit the report prescribed
in Article 5, paragraph 2 (inclusive of the case where
it applies mutatis mutandis under provisions of Article
31) or makes a false report.
2. Then he failed to keep the list as prescribed
in Article 9.
3. When

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
3. When he failed to register under this Act or
under the Ordinance issued under this Act.
4. When he contravened Article 79 or Article 81
of the Civil Code which are applied mutatis mutendis
pursuant to Article 17 and failed to make public
notification or when he made a false notification.
In case of contravention of the provisions of Article 19
paragraph 2 (including the case where the provisions are
applied mutatis mutandis under Article 3l), failing to make the
report or making a false report, the party to the trade agree-
ment other than the trade union (representative in case the
perty concerned is an organization).
When the employer contravened the provisions of Article 32,
paragraph 3, he shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Fifty
Yen (50.00 Yen).
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
The date of enforcement of this Act shall be fixed by
Imperial Ordinance.
Trade unions existing actually at the date of enforcement
of this Act shall submit reports applying mutatis mutandis the
provisions of Article 5 within a week after the date of enforce-
ment of this Act.
The following amendment shall be made in the Act in Re-
gistration Tax:
In Article 19 clause 7, "Federation of Coonerative Societies"
shall be amended to read "Federation of Cooperative Societies,
Trade Unions" and "Cooperative Societies Act" to read "Cooperative
Societies Act, Trede Union Act."

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japam, Jamuary 9, 1946
NO. 184
SUBJECT: Formatiom of Labor
Japan.
BRAANH
DEPARTMENT
ITA
TFER
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
1FFC
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit a tabulation of statistics con-
894.5043/1-946
cerning the organizatiom and the membership of labor unions in
Japan as of December 12, 1945. These statistics were published
in the Mainichi of December 28, which credits the Ministry of Wel-
fare as the source.
The daily items in the Japanese press reporting the organiza-
tion of new labor unions would appear to indicate fairly rapid
growth. It is probable, therefore, that the total claimed member-
ship of 120,000 on December 12 has now been considerably exceeded.
Respectfully yours,
Arey. Atshesny
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Tabulation of Labor Union
Statistics.
Original and hectograph to Department.
Co
JAN 15.1947
850.4
FLED
JSService:anl
C
894.5043
HECTO
SENT TO FR

=== Page 124 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclesure to Despatch No. 184 of January 9, 1946 from the
Umituu States Political Adviser, Tokye, Japan, on the sub-
ject "Fermation of Labor Uniens in Japen."
LABOR UNIONS
According to the rsport made by the Ministry of Welfare, 1)
Labor Unions which have been formed are:
(Up to Dec. 12)
Kinds of industries. Number of Unions. Number of Members.
Metal
6
4,051
Machine
7
11,176
Chemical
1
425
Gas and electric
2
2,880
Pottery
2
36
Sawing
4
1,441
Printing
6
6,033
Construction
1
2,700
Mine
6
10,386
Traffic
10
35,306
Total
45
74,434
2)
Number of labor troubles:
Kinds of industries. Number of troubles. Number of strikes or
sabotages.
Metal
4
4
Machine
20
5
Chemical
3
Construction
5
3
Food
2
1
Mine
32
23
Traffic
11
4
Others
16
5
In the table (1), we must add the following unions, but the
numbers of the members of the Unions are not reported:
Chemical
1
Printing
1
Mine
15
Traffic
1
Others
2
So, the total of themumbers of the labor unions become 65.
Adding to the above mentioned numbers, the labor unions which
are under organization are:
Yahata Iron-Works (members of 30,000)
Mitsui Chemical in Omuta (members of more than 10,000)
In the table (l), if we add the numbers of the members of the
proposed labor unions (above-mentioned), the total are 130,000 or
120,000.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.90)
7
In reply refer to
FFR 141045
JK
Dear Colonel Gross:
I enclose a memo from Hr. Philip Sulliven who has been hand-
ling trede union questions for us, coamenting on the resently
emacted trade union law. I urge that the text of themmo with
894.5043/2-1446
the exseption of the first and the last paragraphs be dispatabed
to 3CaP as commonts by the Stats Departsent with the follosing
introduotory paragraph added:
"The following State Departaent cormeats on the
text of the Japanese Law No. 51, the trade union law
are based on the taxt as received here, They repre-
sent comments on the substance in the light of the
knowledge available here. It is fully recognised
that the timing and nature of any sction which may
be taken to implement these coments falls entirely
within the soope of judgment which only the Supreme
Commander and bis staff are in a position to exer-
cise."
I should sppreciate your views on the sus estions made by
ur. Sullivan in his conoluding paragraph.
Sincerely yours,
1
.J
Kdwin . cartin, Crief
Division of Japanese and
Korean Eeomomie Affairs
Enclosure: Mono re "The Irade Union Lew of Japen"
(cogy miTamep in Jk)
Lt. Colonal Ernest Gross,
心
Civil Affairs Division,
CE
Wer Depertnent,
FEB
P.8.
Reshingtom, D. C.
5
JK: EMMartin:lmo
2-7-46
UE$P
ILH
NG

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
March 26, 1946
SUBJECT:
CIO Representative on Labor Commission to Japan
PARTICIPANTS:
ike Ross of the CIO and
P. B. Sullivan of ILH
COPIES TO:
A-C - Mr. Thorp
894.5043/3-2646
ITP - Mr. Wilcox
ILH - Mr. Mulliken
1-1408
Mike Ross of the CIO called me on March 22
regarding the plans for icCreedy, the CIo man who has
been scheduled to join the Labor Commission to Japan
as an advisor on trade union organization matters.
Apparently there is a feeling (in the CIO anyway) that
IcCreedy and lurphy, the A.F. of L. advisor, have been
let down somewhat in that most of the other members
of the Conmission have gone and (more important) that
air transport is not now being offered.The time
required for land and sea travel seems too long for
IicCreedy in view of the total time he feels he is able
to give to this mission.
I urged upon Ross the importance of this mission
and suggested that he be thinking of a replacement
for licCreedy in case the latter definitely declines
to go. I also pointed out that Eberling, the Chairman
1)
of the Commission, had not yet gone and that Eberling's
plan has been to send personnel to Japan as they become
available rather than to hold up everyone until all
members could be recruited and processed.
Ross

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2 -
Ross was to have further talks with Col. Frank
of CAD in respect to the matter. Owen in JK called
Col. Frank and urged upon him the importance of
making a strong case to Ross.
Philip B. Sullivan
4T4
2.A.S.
ILH:PBSullivan:md
3/26/46
