894.6582 Manufactures. Manufacturing., Foods; Packing., Japan, Meat Products. Slaughtering. Abattoirs., December 12, 1949 (File 1808)
ID: 894.6582-1808   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6582-manufactures-manufacturing-foods
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ADMINISTRATION
BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
ADDRESS REPLY TO
"CHIEF OF BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY"
AND REFER TO
Y-141
Rm 4 - Stop 209
December 12, 1949

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Attention: Division of Protective Services

CIVISION OF
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
12/16/49
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

We have had an inquiry from Lt. Colonel, Marion W. Scothorn, VC, who is stationed in Tokyo. He makes inquiry about the present status so far as our recognition is concerned of the meat inspection system of Japan. As a material of information we are enclosing copies of our reply.

014402

H. H. Pas, Acting Chief
Special Projects Section
Meat Inspection Division

Forwarded, Office of Foreign
Agricultural Relations

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ADMINISTRATION
BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

ADDRESS REPLY TO
"CHIEF OF BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY"
AND REFER TO

Y-141

December 12, 1949

Lt. Colonel, Marion W. Scotthorn, VC
Chief, Veterinary Affairs Division
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander For The Allied Powers
Public Health and Welfare Section
APO 500
San Francisco, California

Dear Colonel Scotthorn:

Reference is made to your letter of November 25. In it you make inquiry about the status from our point of view of the system of meat inspection conducted by the Government of Japan. You have asked some questions numbering each question but in checking our files we have been unable to locate the material that would be necessary to give direct answers to your questions. We feel that possibly we can give you the information you desire by not resorting to the question and answer form for even should we do this it is not felt that some of the answers would be of very much importance.

In order for meat and meat food products originating in a foreign country to be eligible for importation into the United States it is necessary that we receive from the foreign government, through diplomatic channels, (our State Department) information to reach a determination that the foreign government has a national system of meat inspection which is the substantial equivalent of or as efficient as that maintained by the United States.

The information should include such as the following; (1) a copy of the law or decree establishing the meat inspection system of the foreign government and authorizing the issuance of rules and regulations covering the administration of the system; (2) a copy of the rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the law or decree; and (3) that which would assist in determining that the system of meat inspection is being conducted in the foreign country in accordance with the law or decree and regulations.

If the material listed in (1) and (2) of the preceding paragraph is in a foreign language, then there should be also included English translations. As the material will be compared to our Meat Inspection Act and Regulations, it is believed that the latter would be

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
2 - Lt. Colonel, Marion W. Scothorn, VC 12/12/49

of importance. We are therefore enclosing two copies of the regulations. Reprints of the Acts under the authority of which the regulations are promulgated will be found beginning on page 162.

The information referred to in (3) of the third paragraph above is furnished us by the Foreign Service Office in the foreign country. In this instance, it would seem likely that the State Department Foreign Officer concerned might rely upon you for the technical information he would need in making his report.

Should recognition be accorded the Japanese meat inspection system, only products of a kind that are also in compliance with BAI order 373 (copies enclosed) would be eligible for importation.

The foreign official meat inspection certificate of the country of origin should follow closely the text as given in paragraph 27.6 (a) of the Meat Inspection Regulations. After we receive sample copies and find certification satisfactory, we publish it for the benefit of our inspectors and others concerned. Such a certificate is acceptable regardless of the foreign official who signs it, see paragraph 27.6 (a) of the Regulations. The certificate should have printed on it the seal of the foreign government. We are enclosing a copy of March 1949 issue Service and Regulatory Announcements in which are reproductions of the Foreign Official Meat Inspection Certificates of certain countries.

The enclosure entitled "Motion Pictures of the United States Department of Agriculture 1949" will furnish you the information you desire about the Department films that are available and how they may be procured.

Very truly yours,

H. H. Pas, Acting Chief
Special Projects Section
Meat Inspection Division

Enclosures
