894.602 Industrial Matters., Japan, Monopolies. Concessions. Franchise. Contracts. Bounties. Subsidies. Cartels. Where Practicable, Concession, Ect., Are Classified Under Their Specific Subjects., July 10, 1947 (File 1584)
ID: 894.602-1584   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.602-industrial-matters-japan-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, July 17, 1947
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
SEP 16 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

RESTRICTED
No. 1163

SUBJECT: Directive to the Japanese Government Concerning Dissolution of the Mitsubishi Trading Company and the Mitsui Trading Company.

The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum to the Japanese Government (SCAPIN 1741) subject: "Dissolution of Trading Companies", issued by this Headquarters on July 3, 1947. This directive, providing specific instructions for the dissolution of the Mitsubishi and Mitsui Trading Companies by the Japanese Holding Company Liquidation Commission, is an addition to directives dated November 6, 1945 (SCAPIN 244) and July 23, 1946 (SCAPIN 1079) respectively, dealing with the dissolution of large holding companies in Japan.

In conversation with an officer of this Mission, the Chief of the Anti-trust and Cartels Division, Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters, has stated that, with the exception of the two large trading companies mentioned above and a very few others which are not essential to the Japanese economy and which produce no goods, it is intended that individual components of restricted companies (so-called "Zaibatsu" concerns) will be reorganized rather than dissolved. However, he believes that the directive of July 3 will impress the Japanese business world with the possibility of prompt and effective dissolution, and will spur other restricted concerns to submit plans for reorganization as requested by this Headquarters. In addition, he feels that permitting firms such as the Mitsubishi and Mitsui Trading Companies to enter into foreign trade with the Advantage of their foreign contacts and previous informal cartels might result in such trade being directed to former subsidiary companies in Japan, leaving new businesses and small manufacturers in a disadvantageous position.

Enclosure:
Memorandum to the Japanese Government, July 3, 1947, "Dissolution of Trading Companies", (SCAPIN 1741).

Original and ozalid to Department
854
RHBushner:mm

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1163 dated July 10, 1947 from
The United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Directive to the Japanese Government Concerning Dissolution of the Mitsubishi Trading Company and the Mitsui Trading Company".

COPY

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS

AG 004 (3 Jul 47) ESS/AC
(SCAPIN 1741)

APO 500
3 July 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT

THROUGH: Central Liaison Office, Tokyo

SUBJECT: Dissolution of Trading Companies

1. References are:

a. Memorandum to the Japanese Government from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, AG 091.3 (23 Jul 46) ESS/AC, (SCAPIN 1079), dated 23 July 1946, subject: Ordinances and Regulations Affecting the Holding Company Liquidation Commission.

b. Memorandum to the Japanese Government from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, AG 091.3 (23 Jul 46) ESS/AC, (SCAPIN 1079), dated 23 July 1946, subject: Ordinances and Regulations Affecting the Holding Company Liquidation Commission.

c. Ordinance No. 233 of 1946.

d. Letter of Designation from the Prime Minister, dated 28 December 1946, Cabinet A 449.

2. In implementation of reference Memoranda and Ordinance, the following action will be taken.

a. Immediate commencement of dissolution and liquidation of the Mitsubishi Trading Company and the Mitsui Trading Company.

b. Prohibit the conduct of any business transactions or the transfer of any assets by said companies without the permission of the Holding Company Liquidation Commission, or such other agencies as may be designated, on and after the date of this memorandum.

c. Prohibit any persons who have been officers, directors, advisors, branch managers of foreign or domestic branches, or department or section heads of said companies, during a period of ten (10) years prior to the date of this memorandum, from associating together to form a new company, or more than two (2) being employed by or advising any one (1) existing company or company hereafter formed.

d. Prohibit

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 1163,
July 10, 1947.

- 2 -

d. Prohibit any groupe of employees in addition to those specified in paragraph c, above, exceeding one hundred (100) in number, from organizing a new company, being employed by any one (1) existing company, or any company hereafter formed, without permission of the Holding Company Liquidation Commission or such other agencies as may be designated. The Holding Company Liquidation Commission or such other agencies shall grant such permission if it shall conclusively appear that a possibility of recreation of the dissolved companies or other monopolistic combinations shall not result.

e. Prohibit any trading company in which any officers or employees of both said companies shall be employed from occupying any office now used or formerly used by either of said companies as a business office, and further prohibit any company from using the firm name Mitsubishi Trading Company or Mitsui Trading Company, or any resemblance thereof.

f. Require said companies to immediately prepare, in detail, inventories of all assets, showing location, and submit same to the Holding Company Liquidation Commission.

g. Require the maintenance of all existing books and records of said companies.

3. In carrying out the provisions of the memorandum:

a. All assets of said companies shall be disposed of in accordance with existing legislation and ordinances, by open market sale, or in such other manner as may be fair and equitable.

b. The Holding Company Liquidation Commission may remove any officers of said companies or appoint officers to act as liquidators.

c. The Holding Company Liquidation Commission may require the companies to furnish reports and information or inspect any books or records.

4. The Japanese Government shall immediately furnish to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers a report of action taken in compliance with this memorandum.

FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:

s/ R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
