894.3365 Visits Of Vessels And Aircraft Of Japan To Ports Of Italy., May 11, 1934 - August 20, 1937 (File 965)
ID: 894.3365-965   Pages: 9   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.3365-visits-of-vessels-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.90)
F. No. 34 - 1934

701

294 3365

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

MAY 24 1934

DIVISION OF

WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

MAY 24 1934

DIVISION OF

WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS

File

File

COPIES SENT TO

O.N.I. AND M.I.D.

FILED

From: American Consul

(Signature)

Naples, Italy.

Date of Completion: May 2, 1934.

Date of Mailing: May 2, 1934.

APPROVED:

(Signature)

Coert du Bois,

American Consul General.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

A Japanese naval division composed of the two training ships A.S.M. (flagship) and I.W.T. arrived at the port of Naples from Port Said at 7:45 A.M. April 23, 1934, under the command of Vice Admiral Hajime Matsushita. Some three hundred cadets were aboard.

About a mile off the port the A.S.M. fired a national salute of 21 guns and a second salute of 21 guns in honor of the Prince of Piedmont, Crown Prince of Italy resident in Naples. An Italian naval vessel in the port returned the salutes. After this exchange, the visiting ships moored at the Mole San Vincenzo and shortly thereafter the Japanese consul at Naples and the Japanese Naval Attache from Rome called aboard the flagship and informed the Vice Admiral commanding of the arrangements which had been made by the Italian naval and civil authorities for reception of the division and its personnel.

At nine o'clock A.M. Admiral Matsushita called on the Italian Admiral commanding the Naples naval department, the general commanding the army corps with headquarters here, the High Commissioner of the Province of Naples, and the Royal Commissioner. Thereafter the commanding officer of the visiting division called at the Capodimonte palace, signed the visitors' book and paid his respects to the mother of the Duke of Aosta. The Italian naval, military and civil authorities returned the calls aboard the flagship at about 10:30 A.M. During the afternoon of the day of arrival there was an exchange

of

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

of ward-room visits by the Italian and Japanese naval officers.

On the morning of the 24th. (four o'clock) the Admiral, his staff, accompanied by a contingent of cadets, petty officers and sailors, proceeded by special train to Rome, arriving there about eight o'clock. At Rome they were received with a good deal of ceremonial, official visits were made et cetera, and the party returned to Naples on April 26, 1934.

During the afternoon of the 26th. a visit to Pompeii was made and in the evening the Japanese Vice Admiral and his officers were entertained at dinner (Hotel Royal) by the naval commander of the Naples base. The High Commissioner, the commander of the army corps and various high Fascist authorities were also guests.

On the 27th. April a luncheon was given at the Admiralty palace by the chief of the Naples naval base and Admiral Matsushita and officers attended as guests of honor. In the evening of the same day the Italo-Britannico club gave a dance to the visitors and on the 28th. the Japanese Vice Admiral gave a luncheon to the Naples naval commander, the High Commissioner, Royal Commissioner, the ranking army officer of the military department and various Fascist officials. A reception followed which was attended by guests chosen from among unofficial residents of Naples.

The various visits to Pompeii, the National Museum and other places of interest were made by special

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-

special autobusses placed at the visitors' disposal and the trips are said to have been well organized and smoothly conducted.

The visiting division left Naples at 6 o'clock, April 28. Before leaving, the Japanese Vice Admiral transmitted a message of thanks to the city, authorities and people of Naples. The message expressed appreciation of the welcome extended, admiration for progress made since a former visit, and the customary sentiments of reciprocal national friendship and naval camaraderie.

The discipline of the officers and men of the Japanese vessels appeared excellent. More leave appeared to have been worked out with care along definite lines and, as a result, the sailors and cadets readily found their way about the city visiting places which had been mapped out for them aboard. Their conduct ashore was remarkably correct and there was an entire absence of altercations or incidents of any sort.

030
HF .TL

Sources of information:
Local press;
Personal observation and knowledge.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ROME, May 11, 1934.
No. 539.
Subject: Visit of Japanese Naval Division to Naples.
894.3365
PM RECD
U.S. NAVY
BUREAU OF NAVIGATION
NAVY DEPARTMENT
1934
MAY 24 1934
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 1934
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 24 1934
DIVISION OF
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 31 1934
MAY 31 1934
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to inform the Department that a Japanese naval division composed of the cruisers ASMA and IWATE, in command of Vice Admiral Hajime Matsushita, arrived at Naples on April 23rd and remained there until April 28th when it proceeded to Leghorn for a one-day visit. The ships, which are said to have been built in 1896 and 1898 respectively, are described as belonging to the training division of the Japanese Navy and were manned by 144 officers and 1504 men.
On arrival at Naples the flagship fired a national salute of 21 guns and a similar salute in honor of the Crown
Prince
FILED
JUN 8 - 1934
F/B
894.3365/2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

Prince of Italy resident in Naples which were returned by an Italian naval vessel in the Port. Later the Commanding Officer called upon the Municipal, Naval and Military authorities of the Port and also signed the visitors' book of the Prince of Piedmont and the Dowager Duchess d'Aosta; the Italian authorities returning the visit in the afternoon. On the following day, the Admiral and his staff, together with a number of petty officers and men, proceeded by special train to Rome where they were met by representatives of the Italian Ministry of Marine. After visiting the Exposition of the Revolution and laying wreaths on the Tombs of the Unknown Soldier and the Italian Kings in the Pantheon, the visitors were received by Mussolini as Minister for Marine and by the Governor of Rome. They were guests of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Marine at luncheon and spent the balance of the day in visiting principal points of interest in the city, at the conclusion of which the main body of the party entrained for Naples while a few of their number remained over for several days longer.

An extensive program for the entertainment of the visitors at Naples appears to have been prepared and successfully realized in all particulars. It included excursions to Pompei and other nearby points of interest as well as social functions in which both officers and men participated. The conduct and discipline of the crew while ashore and in contact with the Italian population has been favorably commented upon.

At Leghorn, the usual visits were exchanged with the Municipal and Port authorities, after which a visit was made to the

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

to the Naval Academy. Departure took place in the afternoon at the conclusion of the visit which had lasted but a few hours.

Newspaper accounts of the visit were brief and unaccompanied by comment and while the courtesies and attentions shown the visitors by the Italians were quite correct in every particular, there were no evidences of enthusiasm on the occasion which has been described as being "highly official".

Respectfully yours,

Breckinridge Long.

CAH/amc
833

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ROME, August 20, 1937
No. 543

Subject: Visit of Japanese Naval Vessels to Italian Ports.

894.3365

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform the Department that on August 13th two Japanese naval vessels, the cruisers IWATE and JAKUMO, arrived at Palermo, where they were met by the Japanese Ambassador who had come to Sicily for this purpose. The following day the Ambassador and the officers of the two training ships were received by the King of Italy, who left the manoeuvers now being held in Sicily to come to Palermo especially for this occasion. Shortly afterward the King went on board the IWATE to review the officers and midshipmen.

The vessels then proceeded to Naples. Admiral Koga and his staff subsequently visited Rome, where they were...

894.3365/3

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

were welcomed by high ranking officers of the Italian
navy. The following day 700 other officers and sailors
also came to Rome, where they were received with con-
siderable ceremony. Following Admiral Koga's call upon
the Minister of Marine on August 16th, the Japanese
Ambassador gave a dinner and reception in honor of the
visiting officers, which were attended by the Italian
Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Marine
and a number of other high-ranking Italian officials.
The Japanese officers returned to Naples the following
day, and the two vessels sailed on the 19th for Mar-
seilles.

The press gave considerable prominence to the
visit in Italian ports of these vessels and it may be
noted in this connection that they were accorded an
official reception at Palermo during the manoeuvres
in Sicily to which the military and naval attachés of
other Powers were not invited.

Respectfully yours,
William Phillips

SR/gaj
833
